Ghaziabad: Four persons died on Tuesday allegedly after consuming   purchased from Khoda Colony in Ghaziabad. Another person is battling for his life in a Delhi hospital.

 Police said the liquor, which the victims had bought from the same illegal shop in Khoda Colony, was packaged in   of Party Special, a brand which is popular in Haryana. “However, it is not yet clear if the   bottles were original or fake. Samples of the alcohol have been sent to the forensic science laboratory in Agra for an analysis,” IG (Meerut range)   told TOI.
 
 The victims were from three families in Khoda Colony, and have been identified as Avneesh (28), his brother-in-law Sandeep (18), Ravinder (35) and Ashok (35). Ravinder’s elder brother Srinivas (40) is critical at Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital.
 
 According to their family, all of them had bought the liquor from a woman — the widow of Hazari Lal — who used to sell liquor from her house in Shankar Vihar.
 
 “Avneesh and Sandeep are daily wagers. They returned from work around 7.30pm on Monday. They had brought two 180ml bottles of liquor along with them. Both of them consumed half the liquor from one bottle and began to throw up shortly after having dinner. We rushed them to a government hospital in Delhi,” said Avneesh’s wife Vimla.
 
 Around 7.30am on Tuesday, Ghaziabad police got an alert from their Delhi counterparts about Avneesh and Sandeep having been admitted to Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital in Delhi with complaints of poisoning from alcohol. As a police team reached Khoda around 8am to enquire about the incident, reports of two more deaths came in.
 
 Sandeep and Ashok were declared dead by doctors at the hospital around 8.30am. “Ashok had had a fight with his wife Aarti during the day. He returned home drunk and consumed yet another quarter bottle of alcohol before going to bed. He was found dead when his wife went to wake him up in the morning,” said Ashok’s sister-in-law Anju.
 
 Likewise, Srinivas’s son Kuldeep said he found his father slouching in a drain just outside the main door of their house around 7 am on Tuesday. “He was frothing from the mouth, while my uncle Ravinder had collapsed on a pile of bricks while he was washing clothes,” he added.
 
 Later in the day, police raided Hazari Lal’s house and recovered several cartons of liquor bottles. Though few persons have been detained for questioning, no one is arrested yet. 
 
 “The Party Special labelled bottles were meant for sale in Haryana only. They were probably smuggled into Khoda. The role of a few persons involved in smuggling and bootlegging of liquor in Khoda has cropped up during investigations,” said Ghaziabad SSP Hari Narayan Singh.
 
 Asked if the liquor was original Party Special, Singh said the forensic test would clarify that.
 
 District magistrate Ritu Maheshwari and SSP Singh also visited Khoda.
 
 “Prima facie, it seems the deaths occurred due to consumption of adulterated alcohol even though the post-mortem reports will establish the exact cause of deaths. From the events, it is clear that smuggled liquor was being sold in Khoda, despite several raids conducted by police in the past,” the DM said.
 
 “We’ll try to extend financial help to the families of the deceased as they are very poor. Any government official involved in illegal liquor trade in the area will not be spared,” she added.
 
 
