He’s the first musician to have made this — Chennai Times Most Desirable Man. But unlike Anirudh, who had this incredulous look when we told him he had been voted Chennai Times Most Desirable Man 2017, we are certain this slot is truly his. He insists it must be his voice that got him the votes in the month-long online votes, and says it’s not looks alone that make a person desirable. That girls also find him hot doesn’t sound too convincing to him, but he’s self-effacing that way. So, yes,   has the talent, the looks, and he’s our man on the top this year. And the fact that he brought in the tea tray and served us tea and saw us off right till where our car was parked makes the chamathu paiyyan a perfect ladies’ man. Desirable? You bet! And after hearing his tenor-voice telling us why he thinks that the pain of a heartbreak helps compose great music, how can we find him anything but irresistible?

 
 
 
 So, of the six years that you have been running these polls, I think I have been on this list for five years. When I appeared for the first time in this list, I was on some double-digit figure, and I was shocked and surprised to even find myself on it. I am not someone who sweats it out in the gym, or takes care of my diet. Over the subsequent years, I gradually climbed up on this list to the number 7 and then to number 3, and now to being the most desirable. Every year, I have waited for the results and to see how I had fared. It feels great to be chosen as this year’s most desirable. This must be all about the music that I make. These lists have primarily been dominated by actors, so it feels great that a musician has made it to the top slot.
 
 
 Yes, in the beginning, it must have been the music, and it still is. As a musician, my success and stardom have contributed richly to my being considered most desirable. Over the years, like you just said, it must be also my metamorphosis from the boy to the man. I thank my stars that I chose to be a musician and not an actor. One big attribute of my desirability must be my voice. I always get ribbed on the stage where MCs make sure they comment about my voice, and the difference between my voice and my physical appearance. Also, I think the women love the way I emote when I sing. I always draw on the emotions I am going through at the time I am recording the song and project those into my songs. Those emotions are raw and real, and people are able to connect to it. I am not a trained singer, but I bring my emotional state of being into the song. They put a face to the songs, and they like what they see. I am not very appreciative of my physical appearance. I wish I could pack in a few pounds.
 
 
 No. I eat way more than my friends. But if you look at it another way, slim is in, isn’t it?
 
 
 OK, I also have this lover-boy image from the time I got into films because of the music I compose and the songs I sing. That has an effect on women. At all my concerts, the girls make up for almost 80% of the audience, and the men in the audience are basically there only as their chaperones and minders! The girls typically are in the age group of 13 to 25, and these are my biggest fans, and that perhaps explains my popularity with women. The world over, young and successful musicians have always made the women go crazy. I am of the firm belief that desirability is not about physical appearance alone.
 
 
 See, I don’t get angry at all. That is also a negative, especially at the workplace if you can’t lose your temper at times, or get pissed off, it doesn’t help. My friends feel I should lose it occasionally to get work done, but I am inherently incapable of saying anything negative to someone, losing my temper, or saying a no. I get the feeling people connect to that part of my nature. I am always calm.
 
 
 It feels like a dream to have gotten to the place where I have. When I started, I had no clue if I’d ever make it as a musician. I was all set to go to Singapore, but I requested my father to let me have one shot at it, and if I didn’t make it, I’d do something else. The rest, as you all know, with Kolaveri Di, we became an overnight sensation. Even now, the songs have all been hits, though the films may not have done that well. However, for me, the experience of doing a song is pleasurable only when the movie does well. Otherwise, I don’t remember it as a pleasant experience. There was a time, when I had just started out, and I remember being sceptical and even scared before the release of the song. But now that phase is over. Those feelings are not in the equation at all.
 
 
 Yeah, it was. We never thought the song would go viral. In fact, the day we composed this song, we composed three songs in all, and this was the second song. After we’d done the first one, we said let’s do a fun song and we were mouthing gibberish and laughing as we recorded the song, and quickly moved on to the third song. Kolaveri wasn’t even a properly recorded song, which is why it got trolled later for bad sound quality. Unfortunately, this song got leaked, and I was pretty upset that people were getting to hear an unrefined piece. We then said let’s release the final version quickly.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
