NAGPUR: VHP leader Pravin  , a known critic of Prime Minsiter  , has made a call for farm loan waiver, apart from once again raising his usual demand to build the Ram temple at  . 

 Hitting out at Modi, Togadia questioned why farmers not been made free from debt till now. When asked about his views on Patel reservation, Togadia, who himself is a Patel, said Patidar agitation or Maratha protests have happened due to government’s failure to provide employment and affordable education. “Not only Patels or Marathas, many sections of the society are unhappy,” he said.
 
 Togadia has been seen coming close to Hardik, who was also in Akola last week to attend a farmers’ rally. The VHP leader got unexpected support from Congress and Hardik a few months ago as they backed his claim of having threat to life.
 
 Raising his pet topic of the Ram Temple, Togadia said he had written to Modi a week ago raising the issue but there was no reply. “The government now wants to go by the Supreme Court verdict on the temple. Had they only wanted to settle the dispute through court, what was the need to organize such a massive movement since 1984. Lakhs of karsevaks including me reached Ayodhya. Many took bullets, won’t their sacrifice go in vain,” he said.
 
 Togadia said there is no guarantee that the court would allow building of a temple over that land. Even if it does, that can be done only on the 1,100m of disputed land. “The moment court allows building a temple, a mosque will come up in remaining 66,000m plot next to it. If the government does not want to have a mosque next to the Ram Temple, it should go for a legislative solution rather than the court,” he said. 
 
 Togadia’s comments come when even the RSS has clarified that it would wait for court’s verdict on the temple issue, though the VHP leader refused to comment on the RSS.
 
 On the farmers’ issue, he said rates of cotton have come down to Rs 4,000 a quintal as against Rs 6,000 a couple of years ago. “Even in my village with a population of 1000 half are debt ridden,” he said.
 
 
