NAGPUR: Words like eco-friendly, sustainable, organic and bio-degradable may have sounded like some scientific mumbo-jumbo a few decades back. But, today, they show your concern about the planet and its future occupants. From the food that you consume, to cars that you drive, homes you live in and the products that you use every day, what defines you is how green are you with them.

 And seizing the go-green initiatives in a big way are those in their early 20s up to mid-40s, who are driving the dissemination and growth of eco-friendly concepts. Most are also putting their money where their mouth is and are going beyond spouting and spewing these terms to actually putting them to practice.
 
 Taking a leap towards eco-chic products is 32-year-old interior designer   who is retailing them from his store. “I decided that talking about it was not enough it was time for some action,” says Kamble who outsources some of the products, is the distributor for organic items and manufacturers some like cloth bags. 
 
 “With green products trending so much, it is easier to find environmentally friendly items. With growing demand and increase in supply the prices too have come down considerably now,” says Kamble who sells grains, fruits and vegetables, cosmetics, toiletries including sanitary napkins and disposable plates made from areca leaves along with bamboo tooth brush, combs and soap dishes. 
 
 “It is the new-age parents who are more concerned about what their children consume. They form the biggest chunk of our customer list,” says Kamble, adding that with more farmers willing to take the PGS certification which authenticates that a product is organically grown, the supply of farm produce will increase bringing down the prices further.
 
 And when Waqar Naqui, a physiotherapist who returned to the city from Canada a couple of years back, wanted to create a co-working space for artists he decided to make it green too. 44 kms from Nagpur, on a 4,000 soft land he created three cottages and a conference room which have been built on the concept of earth bag construction.
 
 “Under this method, fly ash soil is mixed with 5% cement and packed in sacks. These are used as bricks. They are plastered with fly ash and mud and painted with white cement. These are safe during natural disasters and reduce the temperature by up to 12 degrees,” he says. 
 
 “We have also implemented the concept of eco coolers made with empty plastic bottles which are tightly packed together, based on Venturi effect. This wind turbine reduces moisture and humidity in the structure,” informs Waqar about the place.
 
 The 1000sqft cottages have been furnished with embedded furniture again made with earth bag technology and is illuminated by LED lights. At Rs600 per sq ft, the cost of construction of the structure is half of RCC and brick structures.
 
 Waqar calls it art-itecture and says that he learnt about the technology from Internet, DIY videos and by discussing it on various forums on the net. He will also be promoting this place for agro tourism for which he has purchased a 20,000sqft farm for organic and hydroponics (waterless farming).
 
 Its not just the living spaces and food which is going organic. Now even clothes made from 100% natural fibres are being preferred especially by the younger generation. “Chemicals used in dyes and artificial yarns can cause allergies and are harmful to skin,” says Sujata Kaswa who is making clothes out of bamboo yarn. 
 
 “People are getting attracted to bamboo fibre as it is extremely soft, totally organic and also because bamboo as a plant gives back good things to environment and requires less water to grow. Wearing it creates a feeling of good health and the satisfaction that the wearer is also contributing positively to the environment,” she says.
 
 “Taking steps that protect our environment will help the coming generations too,” says engineering student Saiket Banerjee. “I feel growing organic food, reducing carbon footprint, adopting methods that cause less stress to the environment is the way to go especially for the younger generation,” adds Banerjee who cycles to his college.
 
 
