The episode of   starts with Mihika stopping   from leaving and gets engaged in front of her with Raman. Mrs Iyer watches it from outside and cries. Raman leaves from there. Ishita cries and   hugs her. Raman comes and says I remember something, he tells her that he recalled that she visited Budapest with them. She was there with Ashok who was once his biggest rival and he is a bad person. He says if they stay together, why doesn’t she marry him. All their problems will get solved as she will be out from their life. 

 Ishita cries and   stops her to have swetts she taunts her saying that she has broken her relationship. Ishita says it is not so easy, she will not be successful and this marriage will never happen. Raman and family come to Iyer house with shagun for Mihika. Mrs Iyer gets asks them why did they come to their house. 
 
 Mrs. Bhalla tells them that they have come to give Mihika’s shagun. Amma asks them to leave and says she doesn’t want to see Mihika’s face. Ishita goes. Mrs. Bhalla shows the wedding card and tells her that they have become relatives again. Simmi interrupts and says mummy means they were relatives before because of Romi and Mihika’s marriage. Aaliya comes to Ishita with the Shagun sari and apologizes. She tells her that Adi, Ruhi, and she are with her and they will not let the wedding happen. As they are discussing about the murder video that Param has   gives the Shagun sari to Ishita and she throws it away. They get shocked to see the money lender’s picture in the newspaper in which the sari is wrapped. They check the date and realize that Aliya had shot him on 4th, and the protest was on 5th which means Aliya is not the murderer. At the Iyer house, Mrs Bhalla is angry and   advises them that together they have to stop the wedding. They decide to spoil each and every function of the wedding and Aliya joins them in the plan. 
 
 Ruhi, Pihu and Aliya start with their plan by selecting Mihika’s outfits for the wedding functions. They purposely select an outfit whoch Mihika doesn’t like.
 
 Ishita goes to find the money lenders adress and asks someone about it. She reaches the house and finds it locked. She then inquires about it and asks a lady about the money lender’s family. The lady replies to her saying that they left last week. Ishita tries to dig out more information about him but doesn’t get to know anything. She says Param must have hidden him somewhere.
 
