KOLKATA: In the aftermath of a meat racket — in which animal carcasses from municipal dumping grounds were being procured and sold to various wholesalers and retailers in city —   (KMDA) will set up an animal incinerator at Pramod Nagar near the dumping ground off  .

 
 This incinerator will be the second after the one at the   dumping ground off EM Bypass. At present, pets and dead animals are being incinerated at a specific site in Dhapa.
 
 
  
 
 In New Town, Hidco has developed a animal incinerator that will start functioning soon but this facility will only be for pet cremation.
 
 KMDA officials along with   officials held a joint inspection of the area at Pramod Nagar a few days ago. “We had earlier sent a project report to the urban development department. KMDA will set up the incinerator and hand it over to us for operation and maintenance. The incinerator is expected to come up and start functioning by the end of this year,” said South Dum Dum Municipality chairman Panchu Roy.
 
 The animal incinerator would be set up on a 12-cottah plot near the dumping ground off Belghoria Expressway. The project is estimated to cost about Rs 3 crore. The incinerator would have an electric furnace and a platform to bring in dead animals.
 
 There will also be supporting amenities like a waiting room and toilets. “The incinerator would be set up with all environmental norms in mind,” said a civic official. KMDA will soon float tenders to undertake the project.
 
 The South Dum Dum civic authorities will charge a fee for looking into the maintenance and other aspects as the facility would also receive dead animals from areas surrounding South Dum Dum Municipality. The incinerator’s electricity consumption would be heavy.
 
 KMC has decided not to accept any dead animal from adjacent municipalities for incineration at the earmarked Dhapa site.
 
 The dumpyard off Belghoria Expressway — that is spread over 20 acres — caters to four civic bodies of Dum Dum, North and South Dum Dum and  . It receives more than 500 tonne solid waste daily becoming a cause of concern in terms of pollution.
 
 
