HYDERABAD:   remained on the boil for the second consecutive day, on Tuesday, with PG and junior doctors continuing their protest against the hospital superintendent for levelling ‘false allegations’ against them. While doctors boycotted elective and out-patient duties the services were not hit as they took turns to protest.

 However, members of the   (JUDA -Gandhi unit) have decided to intensify the strike from Wednesday, in case they fail to get a response from the superintendent, Dr P Sravan Kumar. They said they will also knock on the doors of higher authorities, including the Director of   (DME) and the state health minister.
 
 The doctors launched the strike on Monday, after they were questioned by the superintendent in the case involving two private lab technicians who were nabbed for carrying blood samples out of the hospital’s maternity ward. While the two were later handed over to the police Sravan Kumar also interrogated doctors, which did not go down well with them.
 
 The protesting doctors are now demanding that the superintendent tender an apology for falsely accusing them of being hand in glove with private laboratories and deriving benefits out of such practices. This apart, JUDA members are also demanding an upgrade of basic facilities.
 
 “Our basic demand is that provision for basic facilities in emergency be made. Currently when we have an emergency case and we need to attend within an hour, basic investigations like HIV, HBV for viral screening of diseases transmitted through blood, haemoglobin test, platelets, serum,   and Blood urea creatine are required to be done immediately. Although we have top-end equipment at the hospital, there isn’t enough manpower to do these tests. Under such circumstances the superintendent is blaming us of being hand in glove with private laboratories for benefits,” said Dr Guguloth Sanjeev, president, JUDA, Gandhi unit.
 
 Meanwhile, the hospital superintendent has denied making any allegations against the doctors.
 
