GUWAHATI:   will begin   registration, which it earlier suspended fearing the misuse of UID cards by migrants trying to find place in the   ( ), in February.

 The decision to revive the Aadhaar drive comes two days after the first draft of the updated NRC, that declared 1.9 crore of the 3.29 crore applicants as bona fide Indians.
 
 “There were many objections from the people and the All Assam Students’ Union (which had spearheaded the anti-foreigner movement in the state) to starting the Aadhaar registration process in the state before the NRC was updated,” chief minister   told TOI. “People felt there were many illegal migrants in the state and if they got an Aadhaar number, they would start taking advantage of government benefits.
 
 It was only after the government clarified that Aadhaar has nothing to do with citizenship that the confusion was cleared,” he added. The process for Aadhaar registration would have started from January 1, but an order from the   (UIDAI) issuing body cancelled the authority of all private agencies who had been empanelled to carry out biometric enrolment, a state government official in the general administration department — entrusted with the Aadhaar registration process — said. “We have now empanelled deputy commissioners of all districts as the enrolment authority and biometric registration will be done only at 1,200 identified centres within premises of different government offices. Each centre will have a government officer to do the verification,” the official said. 
 
 
 
 As Aadhaar is not a proof of citizenship but is based on residence in the state, the first draft of the NRC will be referred to for Aadhaar registration.
 
 “People whose names figure in the draft NRC can easily be issued Aadhaar numbers and need not face any rounds of verification,” the official said. With 1.39 crore applicants in Assam yet to be cleared by the   as citizens and verification of documents supporting their claim yet to be finished, there are road blocks ahead. In all likelihood, their names will not be enrolled under Aadhaar unless they have been cleared by the NRC authorities. The general administration department has been crippled by a shortage of government employees to man Aadhaar registration centres since most of them have been engaged in the National Register of Citizens update process to bring out the second draft of the citizen register and then the final one by the end of the year
 
