HYDERABAD: Awareness programmes taken up by the   seem to have paid off with the institutions collectively getting nearly 80,000 applications - for entrance test - in less than two weeks time. 

 The count of applications, which barely touched 10,000 on February 3 increased to 91,000 by Saturday. Officials attributed this to the proactive campaigning in government primary schools and organising annual days - in the   - that allowed the schools to get the necessary traction. 
 
 Telangana has a total of 194 model schools with a total enrolment of 19,400 students. "We can't exactly say what helped us in getting response from parents but organising annual day in presence of MLAs and well-known people on a grand scale and advertising about model schools in nearby primary schools definitely played a part. Also, parents were attracted to our schools on knowing about the achievements of our students," said Lingaiah, joint director of model schools adding that the deadline to   has been extended up to February 28. 
 
 Government school teachers, however, expressed concern over this trend, saying the state's move might adversely impact prospects of government schools. "Even in our school, students are given uniform, books and bags and it is up to the government to provide building, toilets and good food. Instead of doing that, the government is hard-selling model schools in these state-run institutions. It's not fair on their part to ask principals of model schools to visit our schools and lure our students," said M  , president,   Progressive Teachers Federation.
 
 He said that if the government schools face closure because of the model schools, it will be a greater loss to society.
 
 A circular released by the officials in first week of February read: "All principals of TS Model Schools are informed that as on January 30 less number of candidates have enrolled for admission test. Hence, all principals are once again requested to visit primary schools in the vicinity of their Model schools and meet parents of the Class 5 students and explain them the importance of studying in model schools and see that all Class 5 student appear for admission test in the month of April."
 
