CENTURION: First slip, leg slip, silly point, short mid-on, short mid-off, all on high alert. India couldn’t have felt more at home here in   and   couldn’t have felt more useful.

 
 Less than 24 hours after   had called the Centurion pitch a “lively” one and Faf du Plessis said that he’d asked the groundsmen to ensure pace and bounce, all that one could take home from the first day’s play at the SuperSport Park was the lanky Ashwin bowling over after over — he had bowled 30 by the time any other bowler in the attack had delivered half of it — until it was time for stumps.
 
 
 
 
 
 Ravindra Jadeja, the left-arm spin option that India have carried along on this tour, was loitering around on the eve of the game, convinced he had no role in the XI. On Saturday, he’d have been rubbing his hands in anticipation from the team dugout as the ball bounced, turned, dipped, drifted and did all that it would have on any self-respecting subcontinental wicket.
 
 Atmaram Maharaj was sitting in a VIP enclosure with his family watching the proceedings. His son Keshav, a fourth generation South African whose roots go back to Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh, could turn out to be South Africa’s best bet from an attack that consists of Morne Morkel, Kagiso Rabada, Vernon Philander and the newcomer Lungi Ngidi. Fanie de Villiers, who knows a thing or two about this Centurion wicket, said once the moisture in the wicket dries 
 up, it’ll once again be up to the pacers to deliver. He said it was unlikely that Day Two would behave the same as Day One.
 
 
 
 
 
 But that’s for Day Two. Day One belonged to Ashwin, who clearly missed an equally effective bowling partner at the end (read: Jadeja). Both sides read the wicket exactly the opposite of what it eventually turned out to be.
 
 Blame that on the reputation of SuperSport Park. The most successful visiting bowler in recent years has been a certain Mitchell Johnson, clocking 145+ and the most successful ever a certain Makhaya Ntini with a 54-wicket tally. More recently, Rabada himself has a 10-wicket haul here.
 
 But nature dictated that Ashwin control the proceedings on Saturday. He first had Elgar at silly point, then Markram caught behind and then Quinton de Kock at leg-slip. But what counted more were the deliveries that didn’t get him a wicket. They got him close enough to put South Africa on the backfoot. Saturday was a day that left both teams surprised. If anybody wasn’t, it was Ashwin.
 
 
