Gurgaon: Fear stalked commuters on Gurgaon-Alwar road on Wednesday afternoon, after masked youths ran amok protesting the release of the film  , claiming it had hurt their caste pride.

 A day later, when the accused were being presented in court, their families could be found sobbing in grief. Once again, their faces were covered. This time it was by cops, as many are juveniles. Across Gurgaon, 31 youths were arrested, including 18 from Bhondsi. Most of them are school-going boys, with their families claiming they had been framed. 
 
 Tarun, who had turned 18 a month ago and is in Class X, was among those arrested from Bhondsi. His cousin, a juvenile, who was visiting from Aligarh was also apprehended. He has been sent to the juvenile home in Faridabad, while Tarun is in judicial custody.
 
 “Around 4pm, Tarun had left to buy flour from the flour mill with his cousin, who had arrived a day ago, but they did not return,” said his father Anil, a store manager in a private firm. He continued, “When I heard of the fracas, I started searching for the boys in police stations, but it was only on Thursday morning that a cop at Sadar police station confirmed the boys were in their lock-up.”
 
 Two other 18-year-olds from Tarun’s extended family — Kamal and Kunal — were also sent to judicial custody till the next hearing on February 8. Between sobs, his father Anand Singh regretted not stopping his boy, a Class X student, from going to see the riot.
 
 “Kunal had just returned from school, when he got a call from a friend describing what had happened. He ran out to join his friend. Cops mistook him to be a rioter and arrested him. I feel helpless,” said Singh, an ex-serviceman.
 
 A family member of a juvenile, who had recently completed school and was among the seven boys sent to the Faridabad home, lamented, “he was not given food at the police station, and made to spend the night on the cold floor.” He added, “These innocent children were treated like criminals.”
 
 Family members of another 15-year-old, a Class X student, claimed he was on his way to tuition classes when cops detained him. “He was near Sati Mandir when he was caught. Now cops have imposed so many sections on the innocents, what will we do?” wailed his father.
 
 Among others arrested were two youths caught as preventive measure from DT City Centre. Around 5pm on Wednesday, they had reached the mall multiplex and threatened staff to stop the screening. When they threatened to damage the screen, they were detained. Investigations revealed one of them is Tarun Sharma (25) of Bhimghar Kheri, the other, Umesh alias Darshan Jr (age 18) from Daultabad, who drove Sharma to the mall on his scooter. They told cops the film is not just against Rajputs but against all Hindus, and should be banned.
 
 
