NEW DELHI: Setting in motion the promises made in the budget,   on Wednesday approved a host of projects to improve the water and sewage network coverage, especially in outer Delhi and  . 

 In a meeting headed by its chairman,  , the board, DDA’s apex body, approved the work of laying internal and peripheral   in the Ranhola colonies (Haiderpur), from Rohini Sector 6 to the Rithala treatment plant, in the Budh Vihar colonies falling under the catchment areas of Rithala and Rohini treatment plants, and the Kakrola colonies in Matiala. 
 
 “These projects will benefit around 6.7 lakh people by improving environmental, social and hygiene conditions of these areas,” a   spokesperson said.
 
 The board also approved the construction of the Rs 13-crore 52.3MLD booster pumping station at the Jhandewalan reservoir to provide water with adequate pressure in the surrounding areas. Keeping the sewerage master plan in mind, which envisages complete coverage of un-sewered colonies by the year-end, the board okayed a project to provide around 7.3km sewer lines in Bijwasan (west) benefitting around 10,000 houses.
 
 Rehabilitation of peripheral sewers in Uttam Nagar, Paschim Vihar, Saraswati Vihar, Moti Nagar and the adjoining areas in West-northwest Delhi was also approved at a cost of Rs 102 crore. To improve the quality of water of the Yamuna, a project was okayed to rehabilitate and upgrade the Rithala phase-I waste water treatment plant.
 
 The deadline for some billing rebate schemes, too, have been extended. DJB has decided to re-introduce the scheme for waiver of late payment surcharge from government departments/institutions when the complete principal amount is paid by such consumers. 
 
 Additionally, the scheme on reduced sewer and water development charges for unauthorised colonies has been extended for six months to encourage more people to apply for regularisation of domestic connections. A flat rate of Rs 100 per sq meter is applicable as water and sewer development charges for residential units on domestic/mixed use plots of up to 200 sq meters in these colonies, the spokesperson said.
 
 
