KOLKATA: The police said on Saturday that a nationalized   was yet to reply to their two notices, a day after officials there claimed   and his father   had in November 2016 and 2017 come to the bank, introduced an elderly woman as Subhabrata’s mother Bina and signed on a life certificate, even as the woman lay lifeless inside an industrial freezer at their Behala home. The police said a proper investigation has to be carried out to ascertain the bank’s claims.

 “We will wait till next Tuesday for the bank to hand over the complete data we have asked for. If required, we will issue a fresh notice under Section 91 of CrPC, with specific questions. We will keep the court informed about all the developments,” said a senior investigating officer. One of the two notices sent to the bank’s New   demanded to know all the transactions made from Bina and Gopal’s pension accounts in the past three years, ever since Bina died and her body was kept in an industrial freezer by Subhabrata at their home. The other notice asked how whether Subhabrata had submitted Bina’s life certificate in the bank after she died in 2015. The report about the life certificate has reached the police, but the pension statements, which are far more easier to collate as claimed by cops, are yet to be submitted to Lalbazar or the Behala police station. The police plan to take Subhabtrata and Gopal’s signatures to compare them with that of Bina on the life certificates submitted to the bank. “A handwriting expert’s opinion will be crucial,” the police said.
 
 Bank authorities could not be contacted on Saturday, a holiday. But a senior official told 
  on Friday they were cooperating with the police. “We are working on the multiple queries posed by the cops and will share our findings with them at the earliest,” the official said, adding even their internal report will be shared.
 
 The police are investigating if any of these bank officials helped Subhabrata corner a loan from a private bank by using Bina’s forged signature. The   after they found bank documents at his home that proved Subhabrata had applied for a huge loan in the past three years, albeit unsuccessfully. “In those applications, and even while speaking to us, he said he was ready to mortgage his house for the loan. We would like to know if this desperation was only to revive his mother” police said.
 
