PUNE:   has made it to the top of the list with respect to technical and distance education institutes, apart from teacher training institutes, revealed the   for   (AISHE). 

 The survey was released by the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) on Friday. 
 
 The report for the year 2016-17 also notes that Maharashtra has 667 technical institutions of the total 3,672 in the country, the highest for any one state. 
 
 BN Tiwari, the deputy director general of the MHRD, said, “The survey covered all higher education institutions in the country. There are 864 universities, 40,026 colleges and 11,669 stand-alone institutions in the country.” As many as 2.45 lakh students have enrolled in these technical institutes in Maharashtra, said Tiwari. 
 
 
  
 
 As far as overall student admissions are concerned,   leads the list, while   is in the third position right after Maharashtra. However, the state is leading in terms of admissions at the university level with 9,40,480 students enrolling. Tamil Nadu has about eight lakh and Delhi accounts for about seven lakh student enrolments.
 
 Of the 40,89,781 students in the country enrolled for distance education, Maharashtra has 17.1% share in the same, which roughly translates to seven lakh students — the highest in the country — said Tiwari.
 
 Moreover, the state has close to 4,308 teacher training institutes imparting graduate and diploma courses in education. As many as 29,822 female students have enrolled in these courses.
 
 The comprehensive AISHE survey also indicates that in the last five years, the number of students enrolling for higher education courses, between the age of 18 and 23, has increased by 35 lakh. While there are just 9.3% colleges exclusively for girls, there are 15 women-exclusive universities across 10 states in the country.
 
 There has also been a significant increase in the number of new universities and colleges in the last five years. 
 
 Interestingly, among the colleges as well, a majority of the institutes are actually privately owned.
 
 
