NEW DELHI: The central government on Wednesday asked airlines not to make passengers board   at the fog-bound   Airport unless the Met department said there is “reasonable certainty” of visibility improving and planes taking off within an hour. Since New Year day, flyers have spent hours inside aircraft at IGIA waiting for planes to take off and this has been one of the biggest irritants for them.

 Aviation authorities will also ask security agencies to allow passengers who have spent long time in planes waiting to take off to de-board and get back again only when the flight may actually take off.
 
 These were among the decisions taken by the aviation ministry after it held a meeting with stakeholders to address fog-induced woes on Wednesday as the Met department has said the Indo-Gangetic plains — which Delhi forms a part of — are currently witnessing the world’s biggest   layer.
 
 “The Met department issues the last fog forecast at 11pm for the next morning. At our request, they have agreed to issue another forecast at 4am. This will give airlines a better picture of flight operations in the morning and inform passengers in time about delays. This will reduce over-crowding at the airport,” said aviation secretary R N Choubey.
 
 Officials from Airports Authority of India, operations wing of airlines and Met department will meet on Thursday afternoon to figure out how the existing standard operating procedures (SOP) for handling   during fog can be improved. “This panel will submit its recommendation very soon and the same will be implemented immediately. If there is prediction of fog in Delhi, then non CAT-III instrument landing system (ILS) compliant aircraft will not be allowed to leave from origin airports for Delhi,” Choubey said.
 
 Terminal 1 of IGIA is packed way beyond capacity with passengers in peak hours and to create space, passengers are made to board planes. Asked how this issue will be addressed, the secretary said: “Airlines have been asked to start boarding only if there is reasonable certainty of flight taking off in an hour. We will also talk to security agencies to allow passengers who have been holed up inside planes for long time, to de-board. This will require creation of sterile zones where such passengers can be sent after de-boarding,”said Choubey.
 
 
