CHENNAI: With two months left for postgraduate medical admissions to begin, the state health department has constituted a six-member committee to identify primary health centres and government hospitals located in remote areas of the state. Doctors working in these areas can be given additional marks over their NEET scores as incentives.

 According to the order dated December 11 signed by the health secretary  , a team under the chairmanship of Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation P Umanath will submit a list of such areas to the government within a month. “We have sought for details. A final list should be ready soon,” Umanath said on Friday.
 
 In 2017, the postgraduate admission process was muddled in a legal battle at the Madras high court. Admissions had to be cancelled and the process was stalled twice. The state government gave 50% of the seats for the all-India quota and the reserved half of the remaining seats for doctors working with the government. Government doctors working in difficult, hilly or remote regions were given additional three marks for every year of their service, while those working in PHCs got additional two marks for every year of their service. But the court said there can be no reservation for government staff and asked the government to draw up a list of difficult and remote areas as specified the Medical Council of India Act.
 
 The committee, officials said, has been drawn to do this. It’s members include director of medical education, director of public health, director of medical services, director of medical examination or selection committee secretary and one demographic expert. “This time selection of areas will be made scientifically considering the terrain, reach and nature of work,” said a senior official said.
 
 For instance, hilly terrains or areas that have minimum access or those that have a very heavy workload will be considered as difficult to access. Doctors in these areas will get anywhere between 10% -30% of their of the NEET marks as incentive depending on the number of years they have served.
 
 The committee has taken suggestions from doctors’ bodies and association. The Tamil Government Doctors’ Association president   said they had urged the government to include all village panchayats away from metros as difficult terrains. “Most doctors leave cities and work in villages with the hope of getting a PG seat. They don’t have the advantage of city practice where they can work with senior doctors and work on difficult cases. They also don’t have adequate   to train them,” he said. Some other organisations like   are urging the centre to make amendments to the Act to bring back reservation for service candidates.
 
 The NEET PG results were declared early this week and doctors were the admission process is likely to begin by April, according to state selection committee secretary Dr G Selvarajan.
 
 
