The   on Friday asked   to constitute a bench led by a senior judge to exclusively hear the case pertaining to   and rehabilitation as there had been inordinate delay in adjudicating the issue.

 The apex court had in August 2013 transferred all pending petitions on the Bhopal tragedy to high court to supervise relief and rehabilitation. Bhopal Gas Peedith Mahila Udhyog Sangathan had approached the SC, saying that the HC has not been able to discharge its duty assigned by Supreme Court due to transfer and elevation of judges.
 
 The case is generally listed before the HC Chief Justice or senior-most judges, who are generally transferred or elevated within a year or so, and the petition is again listed before another senior judge, the petition, filed through advocate Wills Mathews, said. It is seriously affecting implementation of the SC directions, the petition said.
 
 The Supreme Court on Friday modified its 2012 order through which it had
 
 transferred petition over medical care of Bhopal gas disaster survivors and related issues to Madhya Pradesh high court (MPHC) with a direction it should be heard by a bench headed by chief justice or senior most judge after him.
 
 Responding to an application moved by the counsel for Bhopal Memorial Hospital & Research Centre (BMHRC) Nursing Association, a bench headed by Chief Justice of India Justice Deepak Misra said chief justice of M P high court would be requested to constitute a bench of judges “with reasonable tenure” in the high court to hear the case, so far heard by benches headed by chief justices of MP. BMHRC Nursing Association had prayed for modification of Supreme Court order, which was passed in 2012 by Justice Swatantra Kumar in which chief justice of M P high court or senior most judge after him was asked to hear the petition on medical care of Bhopal gas disaster survivors, which till then was being heard by the apex court.
 
 Counsel for BMHRC Nursing Association contended that chief justice and senior most judge after him gets transferred or elevated to Supreme Court or gets retired in one year or so and a new judge starts hearing the petition afresh thus delaying action on the part of court to stop deterioration in medical service to gas disaster survivors. He contended due to frequent change of judges, the petition has reached nowhere and the gas disaster survivors are suffering.
 
 
 
 
