VELLORE: A 23-year-old MBA student was arrested in   on Monday for attempting to murder a woman whom he loved. The incident took place at Green Circle here on Sunday night.

 N Shabi, a resident of Katpadi, and   (name changed), 23, of   had been in a relationship since their schooldays. The youth was a first-year MBA student at a private education institution in Katpadi, while the woman is a graduate. Police said Sangeetha had told Shabi to get her parents’ permission for their marriage. He approached her family members recently. However, they objected to the marriage since they were from two different religions.
 
 Following this, the woman asked her lover to be patient and also firmly told him that she would not get married without her parents’ permission.
 
 On Sunday evening, Shabi contacted the girl and asked her to come for dinner. After they had food at a restaurant near the Green Circle, they walked towards the parking lot where Shabi opened the topic of their marriage. Sangeetha allegedly denied his request to marry him and once again told him to wait for her parents’ permission. 
 
 Angered over this, he abused the girl and took a button knife that he was carrying with him and slit her throat, according to Vellore North inspector of police K Nagarajan.
 
 Shabi attempted to murder Sangeetha as he doubted that she was planning to get married to someone else, added the inspector. “The girl’s family had earlier lodged a complaint against him with the Katpadi police for harassing her to get married to him. The police had obtained a written statement from the youth and warned him not to disturb her anymore,” added the police official.
 
 The woman was rushed to CMC Hospital where she received around 10 stitches. The doctors declared her out of danger. She was discharged from the hospital on Monday morning.
 
 The police registered a case against Shabi under sections 294 (b) (abusive language) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC and remanded him in judicial custody.
 
 
