In the latest episode of  , Aditya breaks into the store and gets in. As Noor is going out, her father Wasim stops her and questions her about the outfit. Noor tells him that she will never go out wearing salwar kameez. Wasim stops her from going and unknowingly calls her  . Noor goes anyway.

 Harsh comes home to find Arjun waiting for him with papers related to Pooja's death. Arjun asks who was Harsh talking to earlier on the phone. Harsh tells him that there was no need to spy on him and says he has to protect his reputation as his name was being considered for the position of chief justice. Arjun gets irritated and says that he will try to find out the real truth about the night Pooja died.
 
 Zoya and Noor talk on the phone. Zoya supports her father and says that he had every right to be upset with her as she did something against his wishes more than once. Noor makes a funny comment which makes Zoya laugh. Noor is happy to hear her laugh and says that if Yash was alive, he would have wanted that as well.
 
 Aditya goes into the store and sees Yash's portrait hanging on the wall. In a flashback sequence, we see Pooja painting Yash's picture. Yash says that she will make for a good painter one day. Pooja signs the painting with her initials and says that she made the portrait just for him.
 
 Noor asks Zoya to not look back at the past and do the work for which she had come to Mumbai. Aditya sees Pooja's initials on the picture and throws it in a fit of rage.
 
 Zoya vows to take Yash's company to greater heights just as he wanted. She recalls Yash telling her that the company was like his baby.
 
 Aditya sees Zoya's photo kept there and mocks her. He says that Zoya blindly trusted Yash and she would definitely pay a price for it in the future. He keeps thinking about Pooja and Yash together and vows to seek revenge.
 
 The next morning, as Zoya prepares to leave for work she asks Yash's mother to bless her. Yash's mother walks off and asks her not to act so nice in front of her. Mahi comes in and apologises to Zoya on her mother's behalf. Yash's mother chides Zoya and says that she didn't try and talk to her all those years when Yash was alive so why was she doing it now. She says there was no point in making things right.
 
 Sakshi meets Mrs. Huda and asks her about Arjun. The latter says that she is clueless about both of her sons. Suddenly, Aditya comes in and seeks Sakshi's blessings. He says that he was starting something fresh and will no longer concentrate on the past. He leaves the house.
 
 Mahi drops Zoya off and then reaches the office complex. She is very anxious to get into the lift when she sees Aditya standing next to her.
 
