Neutrinos are among the most abundant particles in the universe. They’re similar to electrons and are among the fundamental building blocks of matter. And, as Queen’s University physics professor Aksel L Hallin says, they have a very small mass, which may even be zero.

 Researchers too have gone miniature with preparations for the India-based Neutrino   (INO) in Theni. Unfazed by renewed protests against the project, they will be ready by the end of this month to fire up a prototype of the planned 50 kilotonne magnetised iron calorimeter (ICAL) detector for the INO observatory, which, once complete, will house the world’s biggest magnet.
 
 
 
  
 
 The functional scale model will be only 1/200th the size of one of the final ICAL detector’s three modules. Unlike the Theni observatory, which will be in a cave under more than 1,200m of rock, the prototype will allow scientists to conduct aboveground tests.
 
 INO project director Vivek Datar said project researchers are integrating indigenously developed components for the prototype. It will be 4m×4m in width, 1.2m high and weigh 80 tonnes. Each of the ICAL detector’s three modules will weigh around 17,000 tonnes and contain 50,000 magnetised plates. “We are trying to get the prototype running by mid- or end-April,” Datar said. “The prototype will have all the components of the final detector. The only difference is that it will be much smaller.”
 
 The INO project is coming up in Theni’s  . In March 2018, the ministry of environment and forests provided the environmental clearance that the project needed. “We will soon apply for clearances from  , which is the next step,” Datar said.
 
 He said the prototype will help scientists’ test the project electronics and identify challenges in the detector design. It will also allow for studies of atmospheric muon neutrinos, which result from collisions of cosmic rays with nuclei in the atmosphere, and the magnetic field inside the detector.
 
 “We also want to look at electromagnetic interference in the electronics when we switch on the magnet power supply,” Datar said “We faced some problems with a smaller magnet. We hope to solve that here because the electronics are compact and mostly inside the magnet.”
 
 AEC chairman   said the prototype will help students learn how the detector works. “Students can also learn how such detectors are made,” he said.
 
 With the prototype, scientists hope to show that they have the safety aspects covered for the INO project. “A lot of progress has happened on the scientific side. Once the prototype starts functioning, students will collect data. We are hopeful that once people see the prototype running, they will know there is no radioactivity and there is nothing dangerous,” said D Indumathi, of Institute of Mathematical Sciences.
 
