PATNA: Ahead of the visit of   national president Amit Shah to Bihar in February,   national general secretary and in charge of the state affairs   is arriving here on Saturday to conduct an organisational review and resolve internal differences, if any.

 State BJP sources said Shah is likely to visit Bihar in the last week of February. “Neither the date of Shah’s visit has been fixed, nor the purpose of his state tour has been explained to the party’s state unit. Party state headquarters has only been tipped off about his visit,” said sources.
 
 Yadav, during his two-day stay will assess the accomplishment of the organisational tasks given to the party state chief  , earlier decided at the party’s Kozhikode (Kerala) national council meet held in September 2016. 
 
 As it filtered out at the state BJP headquarters, Shah would like to see if the 19 special departments, worked out at the   national council meet, had been set up at the state and district levels. Further, he would try to find the status of coordination between the “ministerial group (BJP ministers in the Nitish Kumar led-NDA government)” and the party organisation. He would also see if state office-bearers and other rank and file have been actively engaged in propagation of the achievements of the government at the Centre and in the state. 
 
 Interestingly, when Rai had formed his state executive committee early last year, it was given to understand that he had ignored the party functionaries who were perceived to be supporters of the party’s state brass comprising Sushil Kumar Modi, Nand Kishore Yadav, Mangal Pandey, Dr C P   and present Union minister Ashwini Kumar Choubey, among others. Its impact could be gauged from the fact that the party’s central leadership had put the cause of the debacle of the party in the 2015 assembly elections at the door of the ‘state leadership’.
 
 Shah is expected to take overall view of the present situation. Yadav’s visit is a preparation for that,” said a state BJP source. 
 
 
