LUCKNOW: The detailed inquiry report prepared by special investigation team (SIT) of UP police in connection with   recruitment scam reveals that then urban development minister   did not take the board of directors into confidence while going ahead with the process of recruiting close to 1,350 people.

 Among other points mentioned in the probe report, a strange coincidence stands out. The SIT sleuths found that four candidates who got the same score had also opted the exactly same choices while attempting the set of 80 questions to become assistant engineers. The four, Kailash Vishwakarma, Shams, Syed Ahmed Ali and   whose names are mentioned in the SIT’s report, had answered 58 questions correctly. And stretching the strange coincidence further, even the other 22 wrong options chosen by the four were also the same.
 
 Probe officer stated that Azam’s decision as the ex-officio chairman resulted in wastage of Rs 37.50 lakh in December 2016, when he cancelled interview of 32 candidates who had been selected through the due process by then.
 
 In early 2016, retired Jal Nigam employees did not get their pension and other funds for four months. It was also found that Jal Nigam had been battling acute crisis and owed Rs 700 crore to its serving and retired employees.
 
 Worried about the financial implications, the board comprising chairman, managing director, finance director and six IAS officers of UP government did not seem convinced with the idea of hiring more people when Jal Nigam was already financially overburdened. However, Jal Nigam floated the vacancies in newspapers in June 2016, with less than a year of the   government remaining.
 
 SIT also detected that   had awarded the contract to conduct the online computer-based test to a Mumbai-based firm without giving opportunity to other bidders.
 
 It was also found that Azam had appointed   as officer on special duty (OSD) even though no such post existed in Jal Nigam. The detailed note, approved by home department, also shows that 43 objections raised by candidates who were not qualified were rejected.
 
