Ludhiana:   state secretary   said if   used any unfair means in the MC elections in Ludhiana, then they are also ready for the challenge. He said that they will also give suitable answer to the Congress leaders in the elections.

 Earlier, targeting the Congress government for “unkept promises” made at the time of assembly elections, the BJP leaders staged a protest on Tuesday on Chandigarh road.
 
 The leaders condemned Punjab chief minister   for keeping even a single poll promise made to the people of Punjab. The protest was being led by senior BJP leaders Manoranjan Kalia and Vineet Joshi.
 
 The leaders also handed over a memorandum to be forwarded to the CM thorough the district administration. The leaders asked Capt Amarinder to waive off the entire loan of farmers, Rs 10 lakh compensation for families of farmers who committed suicide, free education and medical facility for children of the affected farmers and also give them life and health cover up to Rs 5 lakh.
 
 They also demanded loan waiver up to Rs 50,000 for reserved categories, house for homeless, free education for girls, free electricity up to 300 units usage, increase of shagun scheme grant up to Rs 51,000. “The government should provide smart phones to youngsters, provide one job in each household and grant Rs 2,500 unemployment allowance to jobless youths,” they added.
 
 They also demanded a hike in monthly pension to Rs 1,500 per month, provide electricity at Rs 5 per unit to the industrial sector, give pending DA to the employees, implement sixth pay commission and regularization of ad hoc and contractual employees.
 
 The BJP leaders also asked the CM to fulfill his promise to end the drugs menace in the state. The leaders claimed that they would continue their protests against the government in case the CM doesn’t fulfill the promises.
 
 Reacting over BJP’s allegations against the state government, local bodies minister Navjot Sidhu who was here in the city on Tuesday said the BJP should first answer what they did in the past 10 years for the people of Punjab. Sidhu said people will give BJP the right kind of answer even in the MC polls.
 
 
