CHENNAI: In spite of being coy about their party’s relationship with BJP, chief minister   and deputy chief minister   were among the first to congratulate Prime Minister   on the party’s ‘victory’ in the Karnataka polls, much before the official results were out. Panneerselvam, the AIADMK coordinator, went a step further, wishing BJP president Amit Shah for “bellwethering a grand entry into South India”.

 Soon, the two were trolled on social media for their “hearty wishes”, even as the drama unfolded in Bengaluru. “I would like to share my joy on this momentous occasion and convey my heartiest congratulations on the resounding victory of BJP in Karnataka elections. Your diligent and conscientious efforts not only yielded the desired fruits in the 15th state but also added another feather in your cap of glory,” Panneerselvam said in a letter to Modi, which he later posted on his official Twitter handle. 
 
 The state information department, however, chose not to release the letter to the media. An official statement of the CM, congratulating the PM was, however, released to the media. State fisheries minister D Jayakumar was less effusive, merely saying, “Whoever comes to power in Karnataka, we want them to comply with the orders of the Supreme Court and release water. That is the expectation of the people of Tamil Nadu.” 
 
 While AIADMK leaders privately admit Panneerselvam’s gushing congratulatory message was “his own”, observers say it was a token of gratitude for BJP’s tacit backing of the state government. 
 
 As far as the AIADMK’s role in the Karnataka elections is concerned, its candidates in Gandhi Nagar (M P Yuvaraj), Hanur (R P Vishnukumar) and Kolar Gold Fields (M Anbu) forfeited their election deposit. The party had to contest in the ‘electric pole’ symbol after failing to submit necessary documents for the two-leaves symbol. AIADMK spokeswoman and former minister S Gokula Indira attributed the loss to split in the party unit, besides a lack of campaigning “owing to the Cauvery issue.” 
 
 With the opposition intensifying its Cauvery protests, the EPS government and senior AIADMK leaders were forced to join in. In February, Panneerselvam said no national party would find space in Tamil Nadu. Soon, AIADMK ministers were on record to say that “there was no space for saffron” in Tamil Nadu. 
 
 Not long ago, AIADMK leaders had no difficulty getting an appointment with the Prime Minister or senior ministers. The first signs of strain surfaced after the RK Nagar bypoll results were out in December last year and T T V Dhinakaran won. Neither Panneerselvam nor Palaniswami has been able to get an appointment with Modi since.
 
 
