LUDHIANA: After conducting the first survey on fire prevention arrangements in the city, the buildings department has served notices to nine private hospitals. The process has begun from small hospitals, but officials claimed they would serve notices to big hospitals as well, that are found violating norms . It is after the fire and building collapse incident in   on November 20 last year that the department undertook the first survey of its kind in the city.

 Notices have been served to Bawa Hospital, Hambran Road; Life Lines Hospital, Hambran Road; Chabra Hospital, Bharat Nagar Chowk; Guru Tegh Bahadur Charitable Hospital, Khosla Hospital, Deep Hospital, Suman Hospital, Shah Hospital, and Pal Hospital in Model Town. Fire inspection will take place in these hospitals on March 20 and 21. Hospital authorities have been given time until next week to complete the   arrangements in their premises, and fire brigade officials will inspect the site to check whether arrangements are up to date or not. It will also help the department ensure hospitals have ‘no objection’ certificates from the fire brigade department.
 
 Assistant divisional fire officer Bhupinder Singh Sandhu said they had started serving notices, and would cover all hospitals in the city gradually. He said it did not matter whether the hospital had an NOC or not, and the only objective was to conduct fresh checking of hospital premises to ensure safety arrangements. Sandhu said they would serve notices to some more hospitals by Saturday.
 
 A fire official said hospitals should have proper ramps, emergency doors, safe zones, fire hydrants, and water storage tanks, along with other required equipment, and they would check all these things during inspection. A list has been prepared by the MC and fire department officials regarding the number of educational institutes, hospitals, malls, hotels etc, but first of all, hospitals have been taken up. Roughly, there are over 300 hospitals and nursing homes in the city, but officials will initially take up only 70 hospitals.
 
 Notably in 2016, a major tragedy was averted when a fire had broken out in  , and around 132 patients were evacuated from the fire. At that time also, the issue of inadequate fire arrangements in the city’s hospitals was highlighted.
 
 
