UDAIPUR: For over a decade, local film producers and   have been demanding the   in Udaipur.   and members of parliament too have supported the project and urged the state government time and again. However, the requirement of 300 bhiga land for the project is currently proving to be a major hurdle. 

 In a recent letter to the department of urban development and housing (UDH), the urban improvement trust has expressed unavailability of the required land in the periphery of the city. However, members of the Film City Sangharsh Samiti has demanded land be granted outside the periphery, where vast tracts of unutilized land is available. 
 
 The samiti has written a letter to the chief minister to provide land at reserve price for developing the film city, which would have all amenities, including hi-tech studio, artificial sets and processing facilities. 
 
 Sources claim that investors are ready to raise Rs 1,000 crore to execute the ambitious project, which do not require state aid. 
 
 Udaipur has over 100 locations within a 15-20 km area. This makes the city suitable for setting up a film city. Udaipur offers a peaceful atmosphere and is ideal for film shoots. It also has air, road and rail connectivity to Mumbai which makes it conducive for the project. 
 
 Experts stress here is tremendous untapped potential as the project would cater to Bollywood, Hollywood and the south Indian film industry. Over 150 Hindi films, including classics and mega hits like ‘Guide’, ‘Mera Gao-Mera Desh’, ‘Mera Saya’, ‘Khuda Gawah’, ‘Jeet’, ‘Fiza’, ‘Yaadein’ and ‘Ram Leela’, etc. have been shot here, and over 350 ad films, serials, documentaries, Rajasthani, Tamil and Tollywood movies have also been shot in the picturesque locations of Udaipur and surrounding areas. 
 
 “Udaipur has everything from palaces to lakes, hills, gardens, heritage buildings, forts, luxury hotels that are favorite shooting spots for directors and producers. We have unmatched natural ambience, historical monuments, distinct culture which are the basic requirements for a film city,” says Mukesh Madhwani, a line producer, who has been campaigning for the cause since 2007.
 
 "If we get a full-fledged film city here, it would boost Udaipur’s tourism and economy by creating huge employment opportunities and also bring the city on national and global map as a preferred destination for making films,” says Anil Mehta, another producer. The campaigners have pinned their hopes on the forthcoming state budget. 
 
 Many Hollywood movies such as ‘Octopussy’, ‘Marigold’, ‘The Darjeeling Ltd’, ‘Heat and Dust’, ‘The Fall’ and ‘The Cheetah Girls’, etc. have also been shot here. The plot of the popular TV serial ‘Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai’ revolves around the life style, tradition and culture of families in Udaipur.
 
 
