MUMBAI: The city will host its first   as part of the   (MSF) between January 12 and 31.

 Night bazaars or flea markets will be set up in three non-residential areas during the weekends and will be open till 4am. These will be held at Jio Gardens in   on January 13-14, at Mindspace in   on 19-20 and in   on the 26th and 27th. 
 
 There will be shopping and entertainment events through the night in these zones along with food trucks showcasing international and local flavours, said officials associated with the festival. They added that this is the first time an all-night bazaar has been planned in the city and it has been made possible by the new law which allows shops to be open 24X7. The locations have been picked to ensure the least inconvenience to residents living in those areas. 
 
 
  
 
 Apart from the markets, three food truck zones will be created on weekends which will remain open till late. 
 
 Joint MD, MTDC, Ashutosh Rathod said the event has been planned to highlight facets of the city and state. “We have ensured that there is something for everyone.” 
 
 Mumbai’s vibrancy will be on show during the festival,” said Rathod. 
 
 Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation(MTDC) has planned the entire festival on the lines of the Dubai and Singapore shopping festivals. They are hoping the move will attract more tourists to the city.
 
 Senior officials from MTDC said that more than 5,000 brands have been approached to participate in the festival and offer discounts for their products. “We have tied up with most major malls and departmental stores to participate in the festival,” said an official. Besides targeting brands and stores, most streets in the city will be converted into high street shopping arenas with shops being set up there. There will be over 500 performances across the city with multiple stages across 13 locations are being set up across most popular places like Giragaum Chowpatty; Crawford Market; Worli Sea Face; Shivaji Park, Dadar; Carter Road, Bandra; Juhu Beach. 
 
 Most of the events are free while there will be tickets for some.
 
 MTDC will also tie up with the dabbawalas’ association to advertise and market the festival and every person who gets a dabba delivered will be give a discount coupon. Besides, there will also be several lucky draw prizes for shoppers who run up bills over Rs 500.
 
 Meanwhile, the Color Run—also known as the ‘Happiest 5k on the Planet’—which has been conducted in more than 60 cities in the world, will debut in Mumbai during the festival. The Color Run will be held at Jio Gardens in BKC on January 14.
 
 
