One of the greatest ironies I know of is English, one of 22 Scheduled languages in our Constitution, is still considered a foreign tongue. Yet it is prima facie, the most used language of official communication across the country. It has some of the largest-selling newspapers in the English-speaking world globally, holds popular literary fests and gets international awards. But it still receives sneering acknowledgement even while it is the most preferred medium of education for the children of those who sneer.

  Music in English, or ‘Western’ music as it is commonly known, is one of the fields of creative pursuit that is subject to such sneers. That of course doesn't stop scores of young Indians to learn it, to write it, to communicate in it. Parallely, performances of music in English really have no generous patrons or sponsors.
 
 Music publishing is nonexistent while production and marketing of this music is at best cursory. stars. With the passing of   a week or so ago, Calcutta again lost one such star. Abode of some of the leading lights of Western music in India, Calcutta has lost more than its fair share of these musicians. Gyan Singh, the late husband and co-traveller of   immediately comes to mind. Gentle and reserved, his music making was bold and solid. As was Kochu’s, the late  , the man who popularised Latin American rhythms and songs in India. My first remembered loss is Dilip Balakrishnan. He was the man from Calcutta who gave rock’n’roll class and originality in India. Far ahead of his time, he went too early as they all seem to do. Paul D’Gama was another such luminary, humble, quirky, sharing that same sense of humour they all had. Let’s not forget Anto Menezes, Carlton Kitto, and Pam Crain. Their unstinting service to the cause of jazz in India, put it high up on a pedestal that is rarely acknowledged.
 
  But I do not intend this to be a remembrance of musical talents who have passed on. What I wish to consider is the legacy they left behind, if at all. If there are bands today who perform Westernised music in regional languages very well, it is because of such musicians all over the country. They may not have been direct influences and inspiration, but the legacy business made its mark. That more people listen to this music and enjoy it is because of, you’re right, the legacy.
 
  Music performances in English were events of aural magic and you could not help but be completely immersed in high-value-low-cost entertainment. In those days, without the fancy bells and whistles of digital technology, the music came at you bareback and raw. The audio equipment was functional and plebeian, usually hired from shops that catered to political meetings and puja pandals. Studio recording was a dream with HMV, or with one or two other independent operators not bothered to give you the time of the day. The two record labels in India
 
  which distributed English music made reluctant productions of some of these musicians. I seriously doubt if things like royalties were ever considered. There were certainly no second pressings, not because the music didn’t sell, but because the label never bothered to go down that route any further, concentrating their efforts and funds on Hindi film music and popular music in regional languages. I believe, despite all the hype for Indian classical music, it suffered more or less the same fate. Of course, the internet came and upset everyone’s apple cart but that was quite a few years later.
 
  There’s so much music that went unrecorded, was not produced and marketed, that it is a crying shame. A slice of our country’s rich music history has just disappeared with younger people never to know what it was like, except for the words that I and other passionate enthusiasts write every now and then. Jayshree and Gyan Singh, Amyt Datta and Jivraj Singh as Skinny Alley brought out two albums of original music. Does anyone even remember? Dilip Balakrishnan’s songs with his outfit High, was cleaned up from some old, mostly amateur recordings and released some years ago. Whatever happened to that if someone wants it now?
 
  The internet and it’s many music sharing platforms have opened up the availability of music as well as avenues for the musicians, but it is chaotic and overcrowded. Torrent sharing runs a parallel course and does not make things easier. So, yes, there’s a lot of music available in English, or for that matter in other languages in India, but who’s listening? Does the legacy we have serve a purpose? I see nothing to the contrary where music in English, and ‘Western’ music by and large, is getting the due it rightfully deserves.
 
  This listing of music out of Calcutta can go on for a few more pages, but what would be the point? A select few albums of original music in English released in India by record labels many years ago and are not easily available, if at all. And I wonder if All India Radio still has recordings of these and many other musicians done in their studios those years ago when government radio did more for Western music than any institution does today.
 
  Susmit Bose: 
  High: 
  Skinny Alley: 
  Calcutta 16: 
  (single) Compilation of Indian bands from the Simla Beat Contest: 
  The Cavaliers: 
  (single) The Braz Gonsalves 7 with Pam Crain: 
 
 
 — PATRICK SL GHOSE 
 
