PATNA: Police have claimed that the question papers of two subjects of the   (AITT) held in January were leaked even before they reached banks for distribution at different centres across Bihar.

 According to a   (SIT) of the   police formed to probe the leak, four sets of question papers along with solved answer keys of two theory subjects — ‘trade theory’ and ‘engineering drawing’ — were leaked hours before the two exams on January 7 and January 9.
 
 The centralized examinations, known as All India Trade Test (AITT), January 2018, are being conducted across the country by directorate general of training (DGT) of Union ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship. It is DGT which prepares questions and supplies to every state before examination. The practical examinations were conducted from January 19 to January 31, while the theory examinations started February 5 and ended on Thursday across India.
 
 A senior SIT official, on condition of anonymity, told TOI, “Mukesh Kumar, an instructor at Maurya ITI, a private college in Nawada had mailed a set of leaked question papers with solved keys of ‘engineering drawing’ to an official e-mail address of the state labour resources department on the night of January 8. 
 
 Labour resources department principal secretary   informed that altogether 199 centres were made across Bihar for practical and theory examinations. “Bunches of sealed questions are brought to banks near the examination centres just a day before the exam in order to ensure secure storage. On the day of the exam, the question papers are taken out of the bank and delivered to centres hardly an hour before the exam starts,” he said, adding, “Till that time, question papers had already reached the banks and the only possibility of leakage is before they were brought to the banks.”
 
 Mukesh along with another instructor Vishwajeet Ram of Sikandra ITI in Jamui are being quizzed about the question paper leak for the last two days.
 
 “We suspect that the people involved in the incident leaked question papers even before they reached the banks for storage amid high security. More time is required to solve leaked questions and prepare a complete key for providing it to students from whom money is taken. The students will also require time to memorize steps, answers or practise the questions which will definitely be asked in the examination,” the SIT official said.
 
 
