Jaipur: Rajasthan University’s (RU) initiative of providing free higher education to the kin of victims of Jaipur serial blasts has transformed the lives of 33 youths from 28 affected families. The scheme allows the kin of victims to study from the bachelor’s degree course to the PhD or MPhil. This is first of its kind scheme by any varsity in the country, claimed RU. 

 Mosim Ahmed and Shehzad Ahmed, both brothers, practice law in Jaipur had never thought of studying after they lost their elder brother and sole bread winner Iqbal Ahmed in the serial blasts. They had opened a cycle repair shop in Fagi and were struggling to meet their ends. Two years after the blasts, one customer told them about the scheme and encouraged them to inquire about it.
 
 “The meeting with Shekhawat turned out to be life changing experience. He not only provided information but helped us till we enrolled in the law programme,” said Shehzad. They are successfully supporting their family. 
 
 Another story comes from Jaipur Chaugan Stadium. Priyanka Sharma’s, then Class XI student, father lost her flower shop outside Hanuman temple at Chandpole forever in blast. Priyanka brother Rahul Sharma sustained 58 pellets in his body. The compensation amount given by the government lasted till few months and largely spent on the medication of Rahul.
 
 Priyanka dropped out from the school and appeared in the Class XII as a private student. She lost all hopes to complete her education due to extreme poverty. However, the scheme helped her admission in Maharani's College. She became placement and training officer in a private college in Jaipur and got married recently. The scheme was initiated by the chief public relations officer of RU Bhupendra Shekawat in 2008. “The idea was to do something for the families of victims which could provide a long term relief. I shared the idea with then VC NK Jain who liked and amended the rules to make it a law,” said Shekawat, who doubles up as counsellor for this scheme in RU. 
 
 
