Whether playing a salwar kameez clad Nandana in her debut film   or the langa voni sporting Telugammayi in Mukunda,   exuded this cute, innocent, feminine charm on screen. But over the course of one 30-seconds-long scene in Duvvada Jagannadham, the former Miss Universe India 2010 runner up transformed into the pin up girl of Telugu cinema. 

 The scene in question saw Pooja coming out of a pool strutting her perfect curves in a black bikini. And just like that, millions of Telugu hearts stopped beating for a moment. In one stroke, Pooja had won over thousands of fans in Tollywood and sky rocketed into a space once dominated by the Anushkas, Tamannaahs and Kajals. And now, the Tulu beauty has earned another feather in her cap, as she has been crowned as Hyderabad Times Most Desirable Woman 2017. In a conversation with Hyderabad Times, an elated Pooja shares her excitement. Excerpts:
 
 
 
 Wow! It makes me feel great. Who wouldn’t want to be desirable? It’s a great feeling and I hope it’s one that is going to last. Especially because I was always a tomboy while growing up. I would wear braces and my hair would be unkempt, and I was extremely goofy. So I’ve to say that the goofy, tomboy in me is very happy today. 
 
 
 
 I think its my ability to connect with the viewers. Someone may be the most beautiful person in the world, but if you cannot connect with them, then you may not find them desirable. I’ve always been happy in my skin and never tried to be someone else. Your physical features may change over time but your character and attitude will remain the same. I have remained myself, and I guess that’s what endeared me to the public and has made me desirable (laughs). 
 
 
 
 Not at all. Desirability is not just about beauty and physical features, it’s a package of everything. A person’s intelligence, charm and attitude towards life can make them more desirable. 
 
 
 
 (laughs) To be honest, I just looked at it like swimwear. It is a scene that plays out in a swimming pool and when you’re in the pool, you wear a swimsuit — it’s as simple as that. The key is to be comfortable in your own skin and be confident about your body and body type. When I travelled, I saw lots of women wearing bikinis, regardless of their body type and I took this same confidence while sporting the bikini. Whether it increased my desirability, I’m not so sure. But I feel people found me equally desirable even when I wore a half-saree and when I played a girl-next-door in Mukunda. For me, desirability should be a mix of cute and hot. 
 
 
 
 I haven’t always been a fitness freak. I love to eat, which is why I would work out. However, it has now become a part of who I am. Working out gives me body flexibility and ensures I stay mentally sharp. It’s not about having toned abs or a size zero body. For me, it’s more about how I’m feeling about myself and if I feel good, it will show and appeal to people. 
 
 
 
 Oh, there are plenty (laughs). Humour and humility are the two things I look for in a man. The person should have a good sense of humour and must be able to make me laugh. He should also stay humble, regardless of who he is. And intelligence in a man is another big turn on for me. I like men who are supportive and open-minded. I’m a happy, positive person and I like men who are positive and look at the brighter side of things. I also dislike men who are pessimistic. Arrogance puts me off.
 
 
