CHANDIGARH: After sporting full-grown beard and adorning turban post his return to   jail in 2015, Jagtar  , one of the accused in   chief minister Beant Singh’s assassination case, has moved application in the court seeking permission to get his photo clicked in the jail premises so that his family could have his latest photograph.

 The court has issued notice to the Burail jail authorities and sought their reply by February 19. Meanwhile, the court handed over the copy of Tara’s six-page confession letter to the   counsel for cross-questioning on the next date of hearing.
 
 In his application, Tara has sought permission of court to get himself clicked and pleaded the court to give directions to jail authorities to send his latest photographs to the family members. His advocate Simranjeet Singh argued that his family members have the photographs of that time when he was arrested from   and was clean shaven. It was stated that Tara had returned to maintaining his religious sanctity and had grown back his beard and also wore a turban regularly. He wanted his family to have his latest picture.
 
 Tara was nabbed from Thailand in January 2015 and had gone clean-shaven to conceal his identity. It was pleaded that within the last three years he had changed a lot and wanted his family to have those memories. 
 
 After the hearing resumed, CBI counsel S K Saxena put 29 questions to Tara regarding the role of various persons. The court also handed over the copy of his confession letter to the CBI counsel in which he had justified the assassination without having any regrets.
 
 Former chief minister Beant Singh was assassinated by a suicide bomber on August 31, 1995. The accused assassins: Paramjit Singh Bheora, Jagtar Singh Hawara and Jagtar Singh Tara — and Devi Singh, a murder convict in another case, had escaped from Burail jail on the night of January 21-22, 2004, after digging a 94-foot long and 2.4-foot wide tunnel. 
 
 Earlier, Tara had written a letter to additional sessions judge   and pleaded for mercy killing citing apathy of the jail authorities. The trial for this is going on inside the Burail jail.
 
 
