NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Tuesday cleared the decks for DIAL to   part of   of a few airlines from Terminal 1 to the newly unveiled Terminal 2 at the Indira Gandhi  , as a temporary measure.

 “IndiGo can’t say that it is either their way, or the  ,” a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Rekha Palli observed, while dismissing the airlines appeal against the shifting of its partial operations by DIAL, a policy decision that had the sanction of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA).
 
 IndiGo, India’s biggest   by market share, had approached the court challenging Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL’s) decision relating to shifting a part of the airline’s operations to IGI’s Terminal 2.
  
  
 The court was categorical that if a policy has been enunciated by experts, courts should not interfere.
 
 “The court cannot claim to be the repository of specialised knowledge or possess technical skills essential for operating a terminal at the airport. There are several considerations entailed for operating airport facilities, which include factoring in the number of passengers, runways, taxiways, apron, city side infrastructure, car parking facilities, widening and realigning of roads, increasing entry gates and departure gates, catering to hand baggage and the commensurate increase in the baggage belts. All these logistics are aspects that need expertise in the technical field and have attendant financial and administrative dimensions of serious magnitude, apart from other practical considerations, best left to be handled by experts,” it noted.
 
 In some relief, the bench gave a week’s time to the airline to suggest to DIAL, sectors other than Delhi-Mumbai, Bengaluru or Kolkata that it is willing to shift from T1 to T2, as long as they collectively meet the yardstick of one-third passenger traffic volumes of their operations at Terminal 1.
 
 “In the event such a request is received by the DIAL within the stipulated timeline, the same shall be considered and a decision taken under written intimation to both the airlines within one week from the date of receipt,” the court said.
 
 Agreeing with the opinion of the single judge,   noted that “public interest lies in expediting the redevelopment activity at T1, which is a purely administrative decision.” It highlighted that the date of shifting a part of the operations from T1 had to be postponed three times delaying renovation work for which DIAL wants to reduce air traffic at Terminal 1.
 
 “If we may twist the idiom, “My way or the highway” to fit the present context, then the appellants/IndiGo cannot be heard to say that it is either their way, or the run way.   is tending to forget that this part relocation from Terminal 1 to Terminal 2 proposed by DIAL, is only a temporary measure and once T1 is renovated and commences its operations after capacity building, all the airlines can operate from there full throttle and take wings,” HC pointed out.
 
 On December 20 last year, a single judge bench had rejected IndiGo’s plea. DIAL, which operates the airport had asked IndiGo, SpiceJet and GoAir — operating from Terminal 1 — to shift a third of their flights to Terminal 2 to enable it to expand the terminal to meet growing passenger traffic.
 
 Defending its decision, DIAL said T1 had exceeded its capacity and if airline operations were not shifted partially, it would lead to overcrowding. It also argued that safety and security of passengers was its primary responsibility and in case of fire or a terror threat, an overcrowded airport would lead to serious consequences for which it alone would be answerable, not the airlines.
 
 IndiGo, however, challenged the decision arguing it was being singled out for the partial shifting partially which would result in confusion and cause inconvenience to its passengers. It underlined that being the airline with highest passenger traffic share, it should be allowed to take over the entire Terminal 1 instead of being forced to spread across three terminals as it operates international flights from Terminal 3 (T3).
 
 In its communication, DIAL had directed the three airlines to relocate their operations in “part” and split it by shifting flights to and from some sectors, namely Mumbai, Kolkata and Bengaluru, to Terminal 2.
 
 It also said that the capacity of the three airlines to and from the three sectors would amount to around eight million persons per annum and shifting those to T2 would considerably reduce the burden on T1.
 
 IndiGo, however, refused to comment on the issue. 
 
 
