NEW DELHI: The cat and mouse games between encroachers and civic agencies continued in the city on Friday. After reports that the earlier   removal exercise had failed, the   returned to   in   and   with a  , four trucks, 20 civil defence personnel and a dozen labourers. The demolition team razed all   and   on the two stretches.

 Civic officials, however, remained non-committal on the permanency of the clearance drive. “We took massive action, but police must follow up on this too,” said a senior SDMC inspector. The official pointed out that a 2006 Supreme Court order directed Delhi Police to ensure hawkers removed from non-hawking zones did not return. The order stated, “We hereby declare that every station house officer shall be held personally responsible if such hawkers reoccupy the areas from which they have been evicted.”
 
 The current anti-encroachment action, directed by the Supreme Court, has brought the focus back on this perennial problem. “We reach the local police station with trucks and JCBs, but it takes several hours to have a police team assigned,” a civil official alleged. Without police protection, the demolition team is at risk. “Just a few days ago, our team was overpowered by locals in Chirag Dilli,” the official added.
 
 At Vivekananda Marg, it required police to control people, among them a particularly incensed red-turbaned stall owner. Vendors dumped their goods in the public park just behind the wall, proving that unless there is simultaneous action at different points, violators will escape punishment. Some people, like pan shop owner Attar Singh, threatened to take the officials to court. “Despite having a tehbazari certificate, my booth has been razed,” Singh railed.
 
 Officials did admit to being harassed by court cases. “Our next few months will be spent in courts. People register cases of corruption, sexual harassment and of every sort against us,” an officer said wryly. Storage of seized items is also a problem. When TOI visited the dump, the storage space at Kalu Sarai near IIT-Delhi was close to exhaustion. “In another couple of days, the situation will be unmanageable. It is the same in other stores too,” sighed the Kalu Sarai store in-charge.
 
 Since a part of Friday’s enforcement team had been pulled out from a similar drive at Market 1 of Chittaranjan Park, TOI found things were back to “normal” there a few hours later, proving perhaps that all cleared stretches are bound to “bounce back” in a similar manner.
 
 
