KOLKATA: The rise in the number of   patients who do not have a family history of the disease could be linked to the consumption of unhygienic food, including carcass meat, suspect a section of doctors. They have pointed out that endotoxins released by bacteria in rotten carcass could block insulin secretion and trigger diabetes. Around 60% of diabetics in Kolkata don’t have the disease in the family.

 The spiraling of first-generation diabetes patients in Kolkata is surprising, say doctors. “When consumed, the bacteria in the carcass dies and leaves poisonous endotoxins in the body. 
 
  
  
 
 These endotoxins use the fat which is usually consumed along with meat and gets firmly absorbed in the system. In the long-run, this could lead to ‘insulin resistance in metabolic syndrome’ or inadequate insulin secretion, triggering diabetes,” said Arindam Biswas, consultant at RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS). He said bacterial endotoxins could also lead to inflammation in the pancreas.
 
 “We often come across diabetics without a family history and the number is now substantial. One of the reasons could be the bacteria in carcass meat, which, it now seems, is rampantly sold across the city,” added Biswas. Diabetes Awareness and You (DAY) — an organization that works to resist and monitor the disease — confirmed that 60% of diabetics in Kolkata didn’t have a family history of the disease. “This number is very high for the genetic trigger is very strong in diabetes. Unhygienic food could well be the reason,” said Indrajit Majumder, secretary of DAY.
 
 While lifestyle factors are a major reason behind first-generation diabetes, unhygienic food was among the leading triggers, said preventive medicine specialist Debashish Basu. “The quality of meat and fish that we consume is suspect. It is now confirmed that bacteria-infested carcass meat is sold across the city. It could indeed be dangerous since the endotoxins released by bacteria could inhibit insulin,” said Basu.
 
 Around 18% of the Kolkata population is believed to be diabetic. “Fish from the East Kolkata wetlands are widely consumed across the city. It is dangerous for they could have toxic, even carcinogenic substances. Carcass meat is, of course, even worse,” said Basu. AMRI Hospital consultant Debashish Saha, however, argued that it was not yet proved that endotoxins inhibit insulin. “But, carcass bacteria could cause fatal diarrhoea,” said Saha.
 
