TUTICORIN: Charred vehicles, hundreds of sandals and broken window panes lay scattered on the premises of the   collectorate and the adjoining highway near where the police opened fire on anti-Sterlite protesters.

 The collectorate bore the brunt of the carnage with more than 45 two-wheelers belonging to government staff from various departments gutted. Around 10 cars were overturned and six of them set ablaze by the mob. Around 400 staff at the collectorate fled as the protesters reached the building. They broke window panes on all the three floors of the collectorate main building.
 
 Rajakani, a watchman on duty at the building, said the staff were monitoring the situation on social media and following news channels.
 
 “They anticipated violence but did not expect the crowd to go on a rampage at the collectorate. As they heard the mob approaching the main gate, they got a warning from the public announcement system to leave the main building immediately,”   said. “As the mob approached the premises, I ran to the nearby building. The protesters were furious and set vehicles ablaze,” he recalled, adding that protesters outnumbered the policemen and attacked them.
 
 Members of the collectorate staff said they fled when the police opened fire. A staff said the man who was first shot at wore a white shirt and dhoti and stood near a damaged ATM close to the front door of the main building. “A bullet pierced his chest and left him dead even as we stood watching,” the staff member, who chose to stay anonymous, said.
 
 Around 3pm the collectorate staff were back to take stock of the situation. Shiva, from the rural development department, looked silently at his gutted motorcycle as his friend consoled him. “I am lucky to have survived this,” he said.
 
 Tension had also gripped the   staff quarters adjoining the collectorate after a mob torched 15 cars and 12 two-wheelers. They also damaged property in the compound. Sterlite sources said nobody was injured in the incident but it left the staff and their kin in shock as they feared a reprisal.
 
 
