NEW DELHI: In a remark read in the backdrop of his son Karti’s arrest, former finance minister P   told the   plenary session that he had “steel” in him.

 
 While presenting the economic resolution, Chidambaram said, “Some thought that I would not stand here to speak to you and present the economic resolution, but I stand before you as I draw courage and strength from each of you who have come from all parts of India. There is steel in me. And it has been instilled in me from 45 years of association with  .”
 
 It appeared a clear allusion to his travails which started with the graft case against Karti and his arrest in the INX Media case. Chidambaram drafted AICC’s economic resolution.
 
 Former PM   accused Prime Minister   of messing up the economy with “jumla” policies while Chidambaram asked “what the heck have you been doing in the last four years”, as Congress tore into   regime over “mismanagement of economy”.
 
 Singh also slammed the Centre for mismanaging J&K. He said the government talked about fighting “two and half wars” but did not provide adequate budget to the defence forces.
 
 Accorded a standing ovation by party workers, Singh said, “BJP government has messed up the economy. When   was campaigning, he made lots of tall promises.
 
 Those promises have not been fulfilled.” He said the PM had promised two crore jobs per year but not even two lakh had been created, adding that “ill thought and ill conceived” demonetisation and hastily implemented GST had destroyed jobs and created problems for MSMEs.
 
 He mocked Modi’s promise of doubling farmers’ income in six years as “jumla type statement”.
 
 Underlining that the country grew by 7.8% under UPA, Singh lamented that when the world economy grew from 2.8% to 3.8% from 2014 to 2018, the Indian economy had “decoupled itself” from the world economy.
 
 In a scathing speech, Chidambaram warned, “The country faces a crisis and will go into a deeper crisis in the last year of this government as this budget has provided no answers.” He said whoever came to power in 2019 would face a “major crisis”.
 
 “The one party which can bring this country out of crisis is Congress. Why do I say that? I say that not out of arrogance, not out of conceit, I say this because we have done it before and we can do it again,” he said.
 
 Speaking on J&K, Singh said the state was an integral part of India but there should be a recognition of its special problems and the government should try to resolve them.
 
