SHIMLA : Alleging misuse of power in extending red-carpet welcome and grand hospitality to people mostly from the Congress as state guests, an NGO has blamed the previous Congress regime of spending huge amounts of money from the state exchequer on such “guests”, contrary to the rules framed on the subject.

 NGO People for Responsible Governance (PeRGo) has said that it has compiled the data with respect to the “misuse of powers vested in the government for designating a person as the state guest.”
 
 The HP State Guest Rules 1990 that deal with situations under which a person can be designated as the state guest and is conferred with hospitality of the state, including complementary stay, food, transport, security cover and facilities of official courtesy.
 
 Shimla-based advocate Rajnish Maniktala and a member of PeRGo said information was sought under the Right to Information (RTI) Act for a period between January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2016. He said data showed that how the power to designate persons as the state guest was misused at the cost of state exchequer and to please the important and powerful persons.
 
 He said many people were designated as state guests from time to time though they did not fall in any category. “It means that they were granted all the hospitalities of state without having any entitlement under the rules,” he added.
 
 He said rules provide for four categories of state guests.
 
 The category-I consisted of high dignitaries including the President of India, vice-president, Prime Minister, deputy Prime Minister, Chief Justice of India and judges of  , chief ministers, Union ministers, governor of states, etc.
 
 The category-II consists of chairmen of various commissions and boards, Chief Justice of high courts, chief secretaries of state. Importantly, they shall be treated as the state guests only if they are on official duty connected with the affairs of state of Himachal Pradesh.
 
 The category-III consists of those very important persons (VIPs), who are on official visit/ tour connected with affairs of the state, and can be declared as the state guests for a period of 3 days.
 
 The category-IV consists of dignitaries/delegations that visit state in connection with affairs of any department/ board/ corporation of the state.
 
 Box: Specific instances
 
 Raja Rampal, who happens to be former MP and secretary, All India Congress Committee, was designated as the state guest on 12 occasions.
 
 Raj Babbar, actor and   MP, was also declared as the state guest to participate in Kisan Satyagrah at Nahan organized by the State Youth Congress.
 
 K Raju, chairman, All India Congress Committee, scheduled caste department, was declared as the chief guest for presiding over the scheduled caste convention at Congress Bhawan, Shimla
 
 Bollywood actress Preity Zinta was declared as the state guest in 2015 during her visit to Kangra
 
 Girija Vyas, former Union minister, was declared as the state guest to participate in a meeting of intellectual wing of Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee
 
 
