ALAPPUZHA: Chengannur police have registered a fresh case against   (SNDP) Yogam general secretary Vellappally  , his son and SNDP Yogam vice-president Thushar Vellappally and six others in connection with the multi-crore microfinance scam.

 
 The fresh case comes as a big blow to the SNDP Yogam leadership as it is gearing up to announce its political stance in the Chengannur assembly bypoll in two days.
 
 Chengannur circle inspector Dileep Khan M said that the case was registered as per the directive of the Chengannur judicial first class magistrate court-1 on Thursday. The JFCM court issued this order while considering the petition filed by SNDP Yogam Samrakshana Samithi secretary Sudharshanan. He alleged financial irregularities to the tune of Rs 1, 54,98,400 in the microfinance scheme of SNDP Yogam Chengannur Union. As per the complaint, the bank loan was taken by the union in the name of fake groups.
 
 Apart from Natesan and his son, the other accused in the case are SNDP Yogam director board member Ratheesh Kumar, SNDP Yogam Chengannur union president Anil P Sreerangam, microfinance project coordinator K K Maheshan, SNDP Yogam Chengannur union secretary Sunil Valliyil, former SNDP Yogam Chengannur union secretary Anu C Senan and former SNDP Yogam Chengannur union president  .
 
 “We have booked the accused under sections 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 465 (forgery), 468 (Forgery for purpose of cheating), 471(Using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), 477 (Fraudulent cancellation, destruction, etc., of will, authority to adopt, or valuable security) and 477 (a) (Falsification of accounts) of Indian Penal Code (IPC),’’ the inspector said.
 
 In February 2016, Chengannur police also registered a similar case against Natesan, Thushar and others on charges of misappropriation of an amount of Rs 3 crore in the name of microfinance scheme.
 
 Police said that the case would be handed over to the crime branch for further investigation. DGP   on Thursday also directed the IG, crime branch, to monitor the inquiry into microfinance cheating cases.
 
 
