PATNA: The three-day techno-cultural fest of Indian Institute of Technology-Patna, christened ‘Anwesha’, began on Friday with technical events like rocket propulsion, static rush, aqua soccer, virtual CID, astroparticle voyage and electro-bid. More than 1,500 students from various institutes and colleges participated in the fest including. The institutes included St Xavier’s College-Patna, NIT-Patna, NSIT-Patna, BIT-Mesra Patna, Bakhtiyapur Engineering College, International Institute of Information Technology (Allahabad), IIT BHU and KK Roy Institute (Dhanbad). Students also went through the first round of Syngphony, Heel Turn, Stand-up Comedy, face painting, wall painting, rangoli and audition of Mr and Miss Anwesha. The fest was inaugurated by road construction minister Nand Kishore Yadav. Founding member of East India Comedy and comedian Sahil Shah also performed.

 PWC logo design contest: Safia Tabassum of Patna Women’s College emerged as the winner of Inter-College Logo Design Contest organised by MCA department of the college on its premises on Friday. Ruksar Parween of PWC bagged second prize, while the third prize went to Deepali Raj and Divya of the same college. College principal Sr Marie Jessie and head of department Bhawna Sinha gave certificates and cash prize to the winners. Altogether, 47 students participated from seven different city colleges.
 
 Farewell function: Dance, music and drama marked the farewell of Class X students of Bapu Smarak Mahila Uchh Vidyalaya on Friday. The programme commenced with prayer dance by Class IX students which was followed by a welcome song. School principal Meenakshi Jha welcomed the guests – Patna Mayor Sita Sahu, former vice-captain of the Indian women football team Madhu Kumari, Kilkari Bihar Bal Bhawan director Jyoti Parihar, Bihar Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad’s state programme officer Kiran Kumari and additional SP BMP-1 Sheila Irani. Mementos and gifts were given to the outgoing students. School principal felicitated two teachers – Kumari Kavita Sinha and Beena Kumari – who retired on Friday.
 
 Annual day: Students of Lalit Narayan Mishra Institute of Economic Development and Social Change celebrated their   on Friday. The programme was jointly inaugurated by education minister Krishnanandan Prasad Verma, institute director N Vijaylakshmi, registrar Minendra Kumar and dean of Vinoba Bhave University M K Singh. Verma urged the students to carry forward the legacy of the institute. Singh spoke on management innovation in the present era. 
 
 
