AMRITSAR: The border zone police have constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to probe into the allegations of police inaction in a harassment case, which allegedly forced national-level karate player   to commit suicide.

 Border zone inspector general of police (IGP) S P S Pawar on Friday said the SIT led by deputy superintendent of police (headquarters) Amandeep Kaur would carry out investigations in two cases — first registered on October 27, 2017 on the complaint of Kuldeep against persons for causing grievous hurt, rioting and trespass and another registered on January 3, 2018 under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC at   police station of Batala police district.
 
 He said the SIT would also examine the circumstances under with Kuldeep committed suicide, adding that deputy inspector general of police (DIG), border range, A K Mittal would supervise the probe on a day-to-day basis.
 
 On January 2, Kuldeep, 25, had consumed poison at Gujjarpura village. She was admitted to a private hospital where she died on January 3.
 
 Kuldeep, who worked as a gym trainer in Batala, was disturbed as some persons with whom her family had a land dispute were allegedly harassing her and her mother Lakhwinder Kaur and police allegedly did not act despite getting complaints.
 
 She had participated in many karate tournaments, including international events.
 
 Her brother Satwant Singh, a havildar in the Army posted in Arunachal Pradesh, had come home to attend a marriage ceremony of another sister Balbir Kaur. He had lodged a complaint with the police against the persons who allegedly abetted her to commit suicide. According to him, Kuldeep was upset for the past few months against alleged police inaction.
 
 Meanwhile, SAD leaders demanded strict action against the persons accused of allegedly forcing Kuldeep to take the extreme step. They also held a press conference along with Balbir and assured her to throw their weight behind her struggle for justice. “If the government didn’t take any action against the alleged accused, SAD will begin a movement under the leadership of Sukhbir Badal,” they said.
 
