After a series of tasks and performance rounds at the grand finale on May 9, Kannur couple   and   have been crowned the winners of the second season of Made For Each Other, the popular Malayalam reality show which featured 10 couples. 

 Adarsh, 30, and Shyama, 26, are dentists and run a dental clinic in their hometown. The couple who celebrated their second wedding anniversary on May 11, says the coveted prize was a perfect wedding anniversary gift. In a conversation with us, the couple talks about their bond, future plans and more.
 
 
 
 Shyama: We are still thrilled and are enjoying the congratulatory comments that our well-wishers, friends and the audience have been showering on us. We loved the previous edition of the show as the contestants were taken to various beautiful locales like Malaysia as part of the show. To be honest, we went to the auditions only to get selected as participants so that we will also get to visit such places. We never dreamt of winning. But when we got selected as one among the 10 couples, we were determined not to get eliminated in the first round.
 We also thank those who supported us in our journey and prayed for us. The most emotional moment was when our teachers, who are members of the Indian Dental Association branch in our town, gave us a warm reception.
 
 
 
 Adarsh: We were like any other couple in our hometown till the day of the finale. But now strangers smile and shake hands with us. We feel this win has got us recognition among our friends, family and neighbors. We have new relationship goals, learnt from other participants. I also feel that the show has made Shyama more mature and bold (laughs). 
 Shyama: The show also won us new friendships. Through the show, Adarsh chettan and I got to know each other better, which would have taken around five years otherwise as we had an arranged marriage. As we had to go through many stressful tasks as part of the show we developed a strong bond, and a good understanding of each other’s interests well. It also made Adarsh chettan more fun-loving and rid him of his kanjoosi (cheapskate) attitude (laughs). 
 
 
 
 Adarsh: In one of the tasks I had to lift Shyama and perform a task. We both have the same body weight. As she is tall it was a little difficult for me to carry her. In another daring group round in Minicoy, I had to dig a ditch in the ground to complete the task. It was very stressful as I had to move along with Shyama through the ditch which was quite risky. 
 
 
 
 Shyama: Every relationship needs effort, sacrifice, understanding and respect for each other. The relationship between a husband and wife is the most beautiful in the world. You need to be friends more than anything else. No matter what your past may be, when you start a new life with a person, you should be sincere and serious about your feelings for them. There won’t be any reason for doubts in your life. Never compare your life with others.
 
 Adarsh: Never marry someone owing to pressure from society or family. Marry someone only when you sense a confidence within yourself that you can take care of someone and accept them in your life. But first and foremost, understand each other’s personalities.
 
 
 
 Adarsh: We are planning to utilise the prize money for the dialysis of Shyama’s father. She is a great daughter more than anything else. 
 
