MUMBAI: The   on Tuesday extended the interim anticipatory   granted to Samasta Hindu Aghadi leader Milind Ramakant Ekbote till March 14 and directed the Pune rural police to file an affidavit on the status of investigation in the January 1 violence at   in Pune district. 

 The Supreme Court bench, comprising Justice Kurian Joseph and Justice Mohan M Shantanagoudar, was hearing a petition filed by Ekbote against the Bombay high court order of February 2 that dismissed his criminal appeal against the rejection of his anticipatory bail application by a Pune sessions court on January 22.
 
 On February 7, the apex court, while granting interim anticipatory bail to Ekbote, had said that in case of his arrest, Ekbote be released on bail on execution of bonds of Rs 1 lakh with two sureties of like amount, by way of an interim measure. The interim relief was subject to conditions like cooperation with investigators as and when summoned for questioning, among other things. The Pune rural police, though, did not summon him once for questioning.
 
 “The bench made a specific query to the state on Tuesday as to why Ekbote was not ‘arrested and questioned in terms of the interim relief order’,” Ekbote’s lawyer Chintamani Ghate said. “It also asked why the investigating agency was more interested in the petitioner’s custodial interrogation when he could have been summoned for questioning. The state did file an affidavit enumerating the number of cases against Ekbote in the past and the law and order situation in Koregaon Bhima. But, it had few answers to the questions raised by the bench.”
 
 The state standing counsel,  , said that it was brought to the notice of the court that the petitioner was absconding for the better part till he got interim anticipatory bail on February 7. 
 
 “Had he been arrested and questioned in terms of the interim relief order, the petitioner would have taken a stance that he was cooperating with the investigators,” Katneshwarkar said. “The police wanted his custodial interrogation. The bench then asked the state to call Ekbote for questioning and probe him. It also asked the investigating agency to file an affidavit on the status of the probe, including whether the petitioner was cooperating or not with the investigators. The court has allowed a few of the interveners to file their affidavits but said that it will hear the state first at the next hearing on March 14. Till then, the court continued the interim relief granted to Ekbote.” 
 
 
