CHANDIGARH: The railways ministry which is planning to introduce advanced technology by inducting drones for the monitoring of railway projects, crowd management and overseeing maintenance works has turned a blind eye to the pending demand of Chandigarh   to replace 35 defunct   cameras and installation of hi-tech security equipment in the premises.

 During a visit to the station it was discovered that 35 CCTV cameras which were installed for monitoring and security of the passengers were recording poor quality of footage. The cameras were not in good condition as they were using outdated technology.
 
 An official on the condition of anonymity said that monitoring through CCTV cameras allocated at platforms is a mere hoax as it is difficult to identify any person from the recording.
 
 Dinesh Sharma, divisional railway manager (DRM) of   division said, “The division will raise the issue with higher authorities for better security at the station.”
 
 The security department has also formulated a financial proposal for new CCTV cameras and baggage scanner on the recommendations of the station improvement group (SIG). The proposal also includes a provision for metal detectors on the entry and exit points on both Chandigarh and   railway stations.
 
 “The blue print of the project is prepared after a demand was put forward by the department with the higher authorities about the security equipment required at the station. The railway ministry will probably allocate funds for the same in next financial year,” said the official.
 
 The station improvement group (SIG) which was headed by Om  , chief commercial manager (CCM) in his previous two inspections instructed the officials to make a proposal for replacing all the CCTV cameras at the station and send it to the higher authorities for funds.
 
 Besides, the authorities are also seeking funds for installation of the new drainage system at station which is still in pipeline due to non-availability of funds. SGI has recommended to put the drainage project on priority.
 
 The staff of the   (RPF) deployed at the station was increased by the higher authorities but the equipment haven’t been updated by the railways.
 
 
