Nagpur: In what could be an eye-opener for the policymakers who plan to wage a war against cancer in India, a doctoral study has revealed that one-third of women in Wardha district (rural as well as semi urban) have not heard of breast cancer. More than 90% of these women are also not aware of ‘self-breast examination’. Apart from ignorance about the disease, high cost of treatment has been found to be the commonest reason for delay in treatment. The study titled ‘Breast cancer in rural India: Knowledge, attitudes, practices; delays to care and quality of life’ was conducted by Dr Nitin Gangane, director professor and department head of pathology in Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (MGIMS), Sewagram, Wardha, for his PhD in public health from Umea University of Sweden. Dr Gangane told TOI that during his involvement in the making of cancer registry he realized that breast cancer suddenly appeared as the number one cancer in India by quite a distant margin over cervical cancer. Most of these patients were diagnosed only in the advanced stages and quite a significant number of was inoperable, with palliative treatment as the only choice. “It was very disturbing realization that even though health facilities were available, patients still reported to the health system after significant delays and at a stage where treatment was difficult and less beneficial. So I decided to take up this study,” he said. The research involved two cross-sectional studies. The first study was a population-based cross-sectional survey conducted on 1,000 women in which face-to-face interviews were conducted with the help of a questionnaire covering demographic and socio-economic information, knowledge, attitudes and practices regarding breast cancer screening and breast cancer. The second study was a patient-based cross-sectional study conducted on 212 breast cancer patients from Kasturba Hospital attached to MGIMS. These patients were included for study on patient delay, system delay, quality of life and self-efficacy. Information on socio-demographic characteristics, patient and system delays or delays in health care delivery system and reasons for the delays were collected. Dr Gangane said a delay of more than three months was found in almost half of the 212 patients, while a system delay of more than 12 weeks was seen in 23% of the breast cancer patients. This meant that patients were diagnosed only at late stages. “Since there is no pain in the lump in the breast, there is delay from patient. Incorrect diagnosis or late reference for diagnosis were the most common reasons for diagnostic delay while the high cost of treatment was the most common reason for treatment delay,” he said. “If women are made aware of the symptoms, their attitude would change towards the disease. Illiteracy, ignorance, poverty and superstition also add to the delay in treatment. Hence, there should be national programme to control the disease, ” Dr Gangane said.