PATNA: Severe cold conditions are unlikely to abate over the next four-five days as the   (IMD) on Tuesday issued a fresh alert for ‘cold wave’ and ‘cold day’ conditions along with dense foggy weather at many places in Bihar till January 20.

 ‘Cold wave’ conditions will add to the discomfort of the residents as the state has been mostly facing ‘cold day’ and foggy conditions this winter so far. In meteorological parlance, ‘cold wave’ conditions are said to prevail when the normal minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or above, but the actual temperature is recorded at seven degrees Celsius or below.
 
 The likelihood of fresh cold spell is attributed to a western disturbance situated over north Afghanistan on Tuesday, which was expected to start affecting the western Himalayas from Wednesday. 
 
 The IMD’s all-India weather bulletin on Tuesday evening said, “A western disturbance currently located over northeast Afghanistan was likely to approach northwest India during the next 24 hours. Associated changes in the wind pattern may cause a rise in the night minimum temperatures by 2- 3 degrees C over the plains of northwest India on Wednesday. However, this can be shortlived and the likely setting in of north-westerly winds may lead to further fall in minimum temperatures from the night of January 18. Dense fog, cold wave and ground frost are likely over parts of northwest India during the next three days and dense fog and cold day over the eastern plains during the next five days.”
 
 The north-westerly winds coming from the snow- laden western Himalayan region has led to biting cold in places like Bihar and eastern UP for nearly 20 days now. Minimum readings are being recorded below 10 degrees C at most places in the state since December 25. The winds continue to blow at an average speed of 8-12kmph, causing discomfort to residents. 
 
 It was around the same time that dense fog cover started enveloping almost entire Bihar and eastern UP districts. Only from Monday, the fog cover started getting cleared after noon, making way for the sunny respite to reach residents.
 
 Sunny afternoons notwithstanding, the minimum temperature at Patna plunged to 7.7 degrees C on Tuesday, 2 notches down from 9.3 degrees C on Monday. Bhagalpur in north Bihar shivered at 5.9 degrees C on Tuesday morning.
 
 Day temperatures too dropped at many places. Patna’s maximum temperature fell from 18.8 degrees C on Monday to 17 degrees C on Tuesday. Bhagalpur’s maximum temperature plummeted from 18 degrees C on Monday to 13.8 degrees C on Tuesday.
 
 
