GAYA: The Patna high court has quashed the panel for appointment of 22 principals in the constituent units of  .

 The panel was constituted in 2015 based on posts advertised in 2008. Its implementation was, however, stayed in view of the ongoing litigation.
 
 Disposing of the corresponding petition, a division bench of high court comprising justices A K Tripathi and  , while quashing the panel, directed the MU vice-chancellor to advertise the post afresh and make appointments as per the provisions of the Bihar State Universities Act 1976 and the UGC regulations related to appointment and tenure of principals.
 
 HC lawyer   said the panel has been quashed in the “larger academic interest”. Legal experts say that as per law, the validity of any panel for appointment is limited to only one year.
 
 University insiders said fresh appointment to the post of principals would be made only for a period of five years and on the expiry of the five year tenure, the principals will be reverted to their respective teaching positions.
 
 The UGC has already abolished the cadre of principals and converted the cadre post into a tenure post. In the new pay package for university teachers as well, principal does not find any mention as a separate academic or administrative entity.
 
 In the light of the change in the character of the principal’s post from cadre post to tenure post, teachers above the age of 60 years will automatically become ineligible for appointment and the appointments will be made from among teachers with more than five years of remaining service. Sixty-five is the superannuation age of university and college teachers.
 
 Asked about fresh advertisement of posts in the light of the high court order, MU VC Prof Qamar Ahsan said he would like to study the detailed order before moving forward. “The HC order will be implemented in its totality,” said the VC.
 
 Welcoming the HC order, well known educationist and principal appointment whistleblower Shiv Jatan Thakur said fresh   should be made in a transparent manner strictly in accordance with law,  
 
 
