TIRUNELVELI: The year 2017 was a bitter-sweet year for the   district police. In all, 69 murder cases were registered under 70   stations in the district in the year. But police indeed had something to cheer for, as there has been a steady decline in the killings. In fact, this is the lowest number of murders reported in the district police limits since 2004. 

 Police officers claim that micro management has played a key role in bringing down incidences of murder since 2014. District   statistics show that in the last 28 years, the number of murders peaked between 1995 and 1999 when 610 cases were reported. During this period, an average of 137 murder cases were reported every year due to caste clashes and rivalries. The number of murders came down to 53 in 2003 and 62 in 2004, but from then on it was only last year that less than 70 murders were reported.
 
 "Though we managed to bring down the number of murders we are striving hard to bring them down further," Superintendent of Police P V   said. The SP told TOI that the efforts included tracking movement of murder suspects who had come out on bail and could be targeted by their rivals. Another aspect that was looked into as part of the micro management initiatives was closely monitoring inter-caste and intra-caste clashes that arose during festivals. Station-level officers were asked to avoid settling these issues without lodging police complaints.
 
 "We book cases against all those involved in the clash so that they are aware that they are being watched," the SP added. Caste sentiments are still high, though they have come down drastically from how things were a couple of decades ago. The police also conducted awareness programmes in schools in the vicinity of clashes.
 
 The deputy superintendent of police addressed students at school assemblies and elaborated on the legal consequences of caste clashes. "This was to prepare them for communal harmony in the long run. We are also identifying students with casteist sentiments based on the colour of the band on their hands and ask them to remove it," he added.
 
 Another aspect strongly dealt with was removal of conical speakers from religious institutions through an intensive drive from May 2017. 
 
 "We observed intra and inter-caste as well as religion-based competitions in playing songs at the highest volume which resulted in many clashes and sometimes even murders," a senior police officer said. Since there was a   verdict banning use of conical speakers, the district police brought down the use of blaring conical speakers. In May this year notices were served to more than 2,500 temples, churches and mosques across the district that were using conical speakers.
 
 
