The latest episode of   starts with   trying to make   happy. He gifts her a new dress and also plans a romantic surprise for her. Ishita-Raman spend some romantic time dancing together. Raman tells Ishita that as it's her first day to work, he wants it to be perfect. 

 On the other hand, Aaliya gets payasam for Madhu and tells her that it is from Santoshi dadi who wants to apologize. As Aaliya is going back to her home, Shravan meets her and asks her if Adi has gifted her the phone. Aaliya tells him that Adi has not gifted her but as she got curious, she asked him but he denied saying that he has not bought any phones. 
 
 Roshni gets ready for work and gets a call from her boss who tells her that they cannot accommodate her anymore. He further tells her that it is not her performance but Mani who is one of their old associates does not want Roshni to work. Ishita reaches office and meets Roshni, who is talking to the authorities for a new job. Ishita tells Roshni that they are opening a new office and she would need assistance. 
 
 In another scene,   hears   speaking to someone on phone. She decides to follow him and reaches the cafe. Ruhi finds a girl screaming at Param for being married and still lying about his relationship status and being on dating site. Ruhi watches the entire drama and plans to trap Param. Later, Roshni meets Adi and tells him that she was offered a job by Ishita but she tells Adi that she cannot take up the job and be near Aditya. But Adi convinces her to take the job and promises her that he will stay in his limits. 
 
 On the other side, Raman tells Ishita that his laptop has stopped working and his IT team is on leave. Ishita tells him that she will get Ruhi as she is an expert in this. But Ruhi is busy creating an account on the dating site and wants to trap Param to know what is the reason that he is blackmailing Ishita. Ruhi goes out of her cabin to attend a call when Ishita enters the cabin and sees the dating site. She gets happy for Ruhi and informs Raman about this. Ruhi plans to send her friend to meet Param.
 
 
