NEW DELHI: On Saturday, a tale of grievous assault inflicted on a minor tribal girl allegedly by her employer, a lady doctor, had stunned the capital. Two days later, a  , also from  ,   from the   of her   in  . According to the statement given by the girl to Delhi Commission for Women (DCW), the 55-year-old employer had allegedly sexually exploited her too. Though a case has been registered, the accused is yet to be arrested.

 DCW chief Swati Jaihind tweeted: “DCW ensures FIR against 55 year old man in Jangpura 4 sexually exploiting, beating brutally & illegally confining 12 year old domestic help from Jharkhand. He used 2 ask her 2 massage his body, girl has severe bruises! We initiated action after getting call on our 181 helpline (sic).”
 
  
  
 
 In a press statement, DCW shared that the rescued girl is from Latehar district of Jharkhand. She was brought to Delhi and sent to Jangpura for domestic work in March 2017. “The girl was sexually exploited, illegally confined and regularly beaten by her employer who asked her to massage his body, including his private parts,” the statement added.
 
 “She was not allowed to contact her parents nor paid any wages. The girl ran away when the family was on vacation. Seeing her sitting alone and crying, a passerby called the DCW helpline 181. A team of counsellors then took the girl to Jangpura police station,” the DCW statement stated.
 
 An FIR under IPC Section 342 (wrongful confinement) and under POCSO Act and Juvenile Justice Act has been registered. Jaihind has written to the SDM to ensure that sections of Bonded Labour Act are also added to the FIR. “Hundreds of girls from Jharkhand are being brought to Delhi and sold off. They face untold atrocities. Placement agencies operating in the capital should be immediately regulated. Further, both Delhi and Jharkhand should work in close cooperation to stop human trafficking,” she added.
 
 Meanwhile, the 14-year-old girl who was rescued on Saturday is being treated at a private hospital. There are visible injuries allegedly inflicted by her employer, a dentist living in Kalyan Vihar of Model Town in northwest Delhi. She was allegedly burnt, beaten and also bitten over the four months she spent with the family after being sent there by a placement agency.
 
 An FIR for causing hurt and under Bonded Labour Act has been registered and the employer has been arrested.
 
 
