KOCHI: The   budget doesn't have any Kerala-specific projects but the state could benefit from many projects announced by the Union finance minister on Thursday - especially those for the financially vulnerable families, SMEs, farmers, seafood and cashew exporters. 

 "For example, there will be families in Kerala who will be eligible for the Rs 5 lakh health insurance cover offered to 10 crore poor and vulnerable families. Free electricity and toilets are the other projects implemented through the local bodies," said C G George, founder and managing director of financial services firm Geojit.
 
 Small and medium enterprises are another area in which Kerala is going to benefit. "The tax break for companies with turnover of up to Rs 250 crore might also benefit companies based out of Kerala, because 95-97% firms in Kerala fall in this bracket," said  , chartered accountant and president of Kerala Management Association. "There is possibility of job creation in agriculture and healthcare sectors though there wasn't much thrust on rail or road infrastructure in Kerala," he added.
 
  The decision to set up a fisheries and aquaculture infrastructure development fund will have a significant impact on the seafood industry, said Mangala Babu, a leading Kochi-based seafood exporter. 
 
 "This fund will indirectly benefit us, as 70% of seafood processed in Kochi and suburbs are sourced from neighbouring states of Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. We might be able to upgrade our fishing harbours with the fund," he said.
 
 Further, the reduction of import duty on raw cashew from 5% to 2.5% is going to benefit Kerala exporters. However, Cashew Export Promotion Council of India views it only as a partial relief as it had been demanding a full withdrawal.
 
 The allocation of Rs 2,000 crore for agri market infrastructure, Rs 1,290 crore for bamboo sector and the decision to increase institutional credit to farmers from Rs 8.5 lakh crore to Rs 11 lakh crore are going to help Kerala farmers, Kerala Farmers' Federation general secretary   said.
 
 
