KANNUR: Chief minister   has said some people are creating obstacles for the infrastructure development projects for which   is needed, but the government cannot step back from such projects even if it creates detest in their minds.

 Inaugurating the new building of Karaduka block panchayat in Kasaragod district on Thursday, for which the land was given free of cost by four persons, the chief minister said people of Kerala does not have much land with them and hence it would be difficult for them to part with it but the government cannot abandon the projects just because of that.
 
 “We will ensure their rehabilitation along with the compensation they deserve, which is the responsibility of the government,” he said. He also said the decision of four people to give their land for a development is a model for the State.
 
 The chief minister’s comments come in the backdrop of the protest by the residents of Keezhattur in Kannur against the   bypass through their paddy fields.
 
 He said the government was able to acquire land to a considerable extend between   In other States, when the land is acquired for the road, the compensation is around Rs 65 lakh per kilometer, whereas it is around Rs six crore in Kerala, which is very high according to the  , said Pinarayi Vijayan. The State government is trying to amicably settle the issue and union minister Nitin Gadkari has responded positively to it, he added.
 
 At the function, the chief minister also felicitated the four people – Kunjiraman, Damodaran, Balakrishnan, and Sukumaran – who gave away their land for the block panchayat building. 
 
 He also said the utilization of the plan fund by the local governments has increased considerably and this is a great achievement. In 2017-18 the utilization is 85 percent, said the chief minister adding that this year the execution of the plans have started in April itself. By next year, we should be able to utilize at least 70 percent of the fund by January itself, he urged.
 
 
