Surat: Over 500 members of the different Dalit groups held a rally in the city on Wednesday to protest the violence over event to mark 200th anniversary of Bhima Koregaon battle near Pune in Maharashtra. The protests caused temporary disruption of traffic as participants blocked roads and shouted slogans as they rallied through some of the main roads of the city. The rally ended peacefully after four hours. Police said nobody was detained or arrested as the rally was held without permission. It began with a group of 40 people who had returned from Bhima Koregaon near Pune shouting slogans near Udhna railway station in the morning. The group from Jafrabad in Amreli district had arrived on Wednesday morning from Pune.  They rallied for over six kilometre from Udhna railway station to the statue of Baba Ambedkar on Ring Road and were joined by over 500 members of Dalit groups from the city to protest against the violence in Maharashtra. A similar rally was also taken out in Vapi and Navsari towns of south Gujarat during the day by local Dalit groups there. After gathering at Udhna railway station, the group first went on railway track and stopped a goods trains. They later started walking through Udhna main road. As the crowd grew, they gheroaed city BJP office in Udhna and shouted slogans against BJP. After reaching Baba Ambedkar statue on Man Darwaja, the rally blocked traffic on both sides of Ring Road for a few minutes. Later, police teams cleared the road. Meanwhile, police deployed heavy security across the city soon after supporters started gathering at the starting point of rally near railway station. Teams of detection of crime branch, prevention of crime branch, special operations group and local police were providing security to the rally to avoid law and order issues.  “We are returning from Bhima Koregaon where a peaceful rally by Dalits was attacked. We are organizing a rally in Surat to register protest against the violence,” a member Kishore Dhakde of the group said. “Group of people had gathered in Udhna after which police approached them and they informed us that they want to register protest through a peaceful rally with regard to Maharashtra incident. Police ensured that the rally gets over without disturbance,” Surat police commissioner Satish Sharma said.