TIANJIN: India’s worst fears came true as they conceded a 2-0 lead to hosts China after Day 1 of the   Asia-Oceania Group 1 second round tie in Tianjin on Friday. China’s rising star Yibing Wu tamed   7-6 (4), 6-4 in the opening singles before the experienced Ze Zhang put down   6-4, 6-1 at the Tianjin Tennis Centre.

 
 
 Captain   had talked about brutal conditions in the north-eastern Chinese city in the lead up to the tie, which is also the first one the Indians were playing in the shortened format — matches played in best of three sets over two days. On Friday, Bhupathi refused to sight any excuse for the scoreline. Instead, he was critical of his players’ performance.
 
 “Regardless, it was an uncharacteristically shameful display in both matches,” he said from Tianjin. “There was no fight, nor hunger nor will to win. The only way we can bounce back is one match at a time on Saturday and hope it turns (around) slowly.” So, the team’s fortunes will now rely on the doubles pairing of   and   who are set to face Mao-Xing Dong and Di Wu in the first rubber on Saturday, followed by the reverse singles. It remains to be seen whether Bhupathi will replace Nagal with the left-handed Prajnesh Gunneswaran against Yibing Wu in the first reverse singles, if it stays alive.
 
 Ramkumar started positively, breaking Wu — at 332, ranked 200 places below the Indian — in the very first game but handed the advantage right back, losing the next game with a double fault. The 18-year-old Wu, the reigning US Open junior singles and doubles champion and seen by the Chinese as their first major men’s talent, broke again in the eighth game for a 5-3 lead, but failed to serve out the set in the following game.
 
 But the teen prodigy got a grip on the tie-breaker with an early mini-break and held on to it to pocket the set. In the second set, Ramkumar let himself down with two double faults in the third game to hand the home favourite the vital break. Wu didn’t look back from there.
 
 
