Nagpur: Even as the indefinite strike by employees of three red and one green bus operators of the NMC from Tuesday morning hit lakhs of commuters hard, Maharashtra government invoked ESMA (Essential Services and Maintenance Act) against the striking employees and two ticketing agencies. Stray incidents of scuffle between the supporters of the strike and employees who came to work were reported from Patwardhan ground depot in the morning when protesting employees resisted exit of a bus. The ESMA order issued by the state home ministry asked the employees to report to work immediately. Industrial court too termed the strike illegal. Hardening their stand, the employees, under the banner of Shiv Sena-affiliated Bharatiya Kamgar Sena Nagpur Union, have now decided to launch indefinite hunger strike. “On Tuesday evening, the union submitted a letter to Dhantoli police and informed them about the hunger strike,” said union secretary Ambadas Shende. Earlier, on January 19 the union had submitted a memorandum to municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal demanding implementation of Minimum Wages Act, setting up of inquiry committees in all bus operator and conductor agencies, employment to all workers of ousted bus operator Vansh Nimay Infraprojects. The union also demanded recruitment of all employees of the bus operators on permanent basis. Later, a tripartite meeting between officials of the NMC’s transport, labour departments and office-bearers of the union too failed to break the deadlock. The public transport system completely collapsed in the city as not a single bus operated causing severe hardships to the citizens as none of the total 375 buses plied on the 123 routes. Though the department tried to operate buses by hiring ad hoc drivers and conductors and parked over 100 buses at end points on Monday night itself, the striking workers foiled the attempt by deflating the tyres. Terming the strike total, the union claimed that 100% of the drivers and conductors of the four bus operators and two ticketing agencies joined the protest. Former MP Prakash Jadhav and convener Bandu Talwekar addressed the striking employees. Claiming to be part of the government, Jadhav said the NMC would be forced to revise the wages and accept other demands too. Congress corporators Nitish Gwalbanshi, Harish Gwalbanshi and Nitin Sathawane too extended their support to the striking workers. The National Students Union of India led by Aamir Noori and others gheraoed the NMC transport committee chairman Bunty Kukde. Noori alleged that common citizens and students, who would be appearing for board exams from Wednesday, are at the receiving end in the tussle between BJP and Shiv Sena, which has engineered the strike. Although police posse was present at all major depots to help authorities operate the bus services, their attempts proved futile. Mudgal claimed that all four bus operators and two ticketing agencies are paying wages as per the Minimum Wages Act. “We have approached the police and provided a list of 15-20 anti-socials who are instigating the employees,” he said and added these elements had been involved in the past two strikes too and we have requested the cops to apprehend them. On February 16 itself, the civic body had urged Maharashtra government to invoke ESMA. “Under the provisions of Maharashtra Essential Services Maintenance Act, 2011 (sub-clause (1) (4) and (5) of Section 2 clause (a) of Maharashtra Act (12) of Year 2012 along with sub-section (1) of Section 4), state is forbidding the strike by contractors and workers of NMC falling under the essential services category,” the order said.  “Under ESMA, striking workers could face imprisonment of up to one year,” said Kukde, adding bus services will resume from Wednesday. “Those on strike cannot hold people to ransom,” he said.