Nagpur: In some good news for property owners, especially residential complexes, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is all set to regularize  . NMC has given six months to submit applications to compound illegal buildings.

 NMC official said around 7,000 properties will benefit from the decision. The civic body is expected to earn Rs100 crore from the compounding fees.
 
 Owners of illegal properties in the city will be able to get them regularized till October 4, according to the new state government directives. NMC will start accepting proposals from Thursday itself, and will accept applications till October 4.
 
 The state urban development department in October 2017 had issued rules to regularize illegal structures on payment of a penalty. Illegal constructions done before December 31, 2015, in residential, commercial and industrial zones would be considered declared as “compounded structure” on payment of compounding charges.
 
 The owners would also have to submit a sanctioned map, along with details of property tax, sewerage tax, and penalty tax on illegal construction. A licensed architect has to give a stability certificate for the illegal construction. Civic officials said that constructions would be regularized for five floors (15 metres), and if it is more than five floors, no-objection certificate would be required from the fire brigade department.
 
 “Decision on the proposals submitted to us will be taken on case by case basis. The compounding fees will be decided after considering the status of the building, and may vary for each case,” said a senior official from the NMC’s town planning department.
 
 NMC will accept the compounding structure applications from citizens and developers in the prescribed format through architect/license engineers /surveyor, along with relevant documents and non-refundable scrutiny fee of Re1 per square feet up to 2,500 square feet, and Rs2 per square feet for construction area above 2,500 square feet, with four copies of maps with applicant, Architect’s Licence, Engineer’s Surveyor Signature at the office of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation, Town Planning Department, Civil Lines.
 
 Applications not received in the prescribed format along with all relevant documents will be rejected. Also, applications received after 5.45pm, October 4, 2018, will not be entertained. The form has been uploaded on NMC’s website www.nmcnagpur.gov.in.
 
 
