LUCKNOW: The city saw one of the worst   jams on Monday with heavy vehicular congestion being reported in most areas from 11.30am till 5pm.

 Massive traffic jams were reported from Hazratganj, KD Singh ‘Babu’ Stadium, Parivartan Chowk, Kaiserbagh, Daliganj Bridge,   crossing which had a cascading effect in other parts.
 
 Traffic remained disrupted from Kaiserbagh to ‘Babu’ Stadium and from Parivartan Chowk to KGMU crossing for hours. Vehicles were also stuck on Ashok Marg, Rana Pratap Marg and Vidhan Sabha Marg.
 
 Schoolchildren, ambulances, roadways buses, office-goers, passengers going to Charbagh remained stuck for hours as bumperto-bumper traffic was reported from Rana Pratap Marg to Mahatma Gandhi Marg and further.
 
 Wasim Siddiqui, a school van driver, said that there was no cop to regulate traffic. “It took me two hours to go from Rana Pratap Marg to Lalbagh to drop kids,” said Siddiqui.
 
 Anita Gautam, who commutes daily from   to Bapu Bhavan, said that it took her two hours to reach office.
 
 She said that roadways buses parked near Residency turn blocked MG Marg.
 
 Aloknath Mishra of Mahanagar heading to Charbagh said, “I was stuck on Vidhan Sabha Marg for over an hour. When I tried to take a turn towards Lalbagh from Darul Shafa even that route was clogged.”
 
 Those coming from Kaiserbagh complained of roadways buses parked in front of Bhatkhande Institute stifling traffic.
 
 Driver of a 108 ambulance service ferrying a patient from Aliganj to KGMU Trauma Centre said there was massive jam at Parivartan Chowk.
 
 Traffic officials said that influx of a high number of vehicles in the city on account of functions at   head office, Vidhan Bhawan and state road transport department office on Mahatma Gandhi Marg was responsible for causing the blockade.
 
 ASP, traffic, RS Nim said that there were multiple events in the city on Monday as a result of which many people had come from outside districts and parked their vehicles blocking easy traffic movement.
 
 Nim added that ADG, Lucknow, is holding a meeting on Tuesday to plan a strategy for smooth traffic which will be rolled out soon.
 
 
