CHENNAI: In a significant development, the Union water resources ministry is working on a proposal to set up a high-level committee to exclusively monitor the measures for ensuring a high level of preparedness in the event of any disaster to   dam. The National Disaster Management Authority is all set to issue the order to set up the committee very shortly. The Kerala and   governments will also put in place separate committees shortly to ensure a high level of preparedness to face any disaster occurring from Mullaperiyar dam. 

 Central Water Commission, a technical arm of the water resources ministry, has recently forwarded a proposal to the ministry on the constitution of the committee. The ministry forwarded the composition to National Disaster Management Authority. 
 
 According to CWC sources, a panel of 14-member committee was proposed to NDMA through ministry, with experts from various government agencies, including communication, health, water resources, sanitation. But the authority had told the minsitry to firm up terms of reference and constitution. The CWC will send to the ministry the revised proposal in a day or two," said a senior CWC official.
 
 This follows an order from the   in January last on a public interest litigation which contended that due to the differences between states over the contractual rights over the Year 1886 lease agreement, they had not taken any steps to mitigate the fear. But the court made it clear in its order on the safety of the dam, "Our directions for the constitution of exclusive sub-committees for the disaster management of the Mullaperiyar dam does not anyway remotely suggest that there is any doubt about the safety or life span of the dam, as alleged in the petition." Tamil Nadu government sources said the "paper work" is on and the thinking is that the existing Theni district disaster management committee headed by collector could be availed for the purpose. 
 
 The SC based on its expert panel report endorsed the safety of the dam in 2014. 
 
 
