TRICHY: It was a matter of personal pride for S   when his daughter represented India in the women's 10,000m long-distance run at the ongoing 2018 Commonwealth Games at Gold Coast, Australia. However, Suriya, 27, an employee of the Trichy railway division, could not live up to her father’s expectations and finished 13th in the event held on Monday. Yet, the fighter in Loganathan believes that she has the potential to make it big in the forthcoming events.

 However, his bigger aim is to produce more athletes from underprivileged backgrounds and provide them a platform to do well in the international arena. It would not be an exaggeration to say that he has achieved more than what he aimed for through his modest   in  . He has so far produced a total of nine international long-distance runners who have participated in events like Commonwealth Games and Asian Athletics Championships and won medals. Some of the athletes who got trained at his club include the likes of 12-time international medallist   and  , who became the first Indian to win double gold at the   last year.
 
 “When I was young, I knew I had the potential to excel in sports. I wanted to represent the country in the Olympics. But the financial situation in my house was such that I had to forget my dream,” said Loganathan. “But since the eighties I have been scouting for potential athletes from underprivileged backgrounds and training them so that they do not have to regret as I do,” stated the 62-year-old, who was an employee at Income Tax office in Chennai.
 
 After the athletes under his tutelage started setting records at the national arena, he set up Kavinadu Youth Sports Club in 2006 in Pudukottai so as to impart them a more organised training. Though the lack of funds meant that the athletes at his academy could only train on a tar road with a track length of just 155 metres, Loganathan’s perseverance meant that they still got very effective training. “Most of those at my academy never got trained with spike shoes until they participated at national level meets. Even then, they won medals at the international level. My athletes in total have won more than 1,000 medals,” he said with pride.
 
 “I would be happy if someone or an organisation comes forward and helps us with equipment,” he said.
 
