AGRA: Late on Sunday night,  , an Agra based   with one of the biggest cable   in Uttar Pradesh went on social media to narrate her ordeal of being chased by two drunk youths while returning home on the evening of January 25 after her last news bulletin for the day.

 In her Facebook page, the anchor with one of India’s leading cable TV networks, which runs local news and entertainment channels in 13 states, alleged that even after making distress calls to   1090, she was left to fend for herself.
 
 “On January 25, at around 8pm, I was followed from near Bhagwan Talkies by two inebriated youths on a motorcycle. They first made gestures at me and started stalking me. I was on foot. Initially I ignored them, but then they attempted to talk to me. Fearful, I changed my route, but they still followed me. I decided to take a picture of the number plate, but the man sitting on the pillion said it was a fake number and even struck a pose. There was no fear or shame on the youths’ face,” wrote Mahaur.
 
 Tagging SSP Agra, women helpline, DGP UP and CM Yogi Adityanath, Mahaur further wrote, “What happened with me that night was not such a big incident. But such men who chase and stalk a lone woman without any fear of police made me ashamed. They chased me. The next time they might rape a girl and destroy her life.”
 
 Speaking to TOI, Mahaur said, “I was not helped for four days even after I made a distress call to UP women helpline 1090 explaining to the communication officer about the incident. Finally when I wrote about the incident on Facebook, the 1090 officers contacted me and apologised for laxity in carrying out their duty.”
 
 IG  , incharge of 1090 said, “We have apologised to her for the incident and have also suspended two communication officers who failed to follow the standard operation protocol and showed laxity.” Based on Mahaur’s FIR, Agra police on Monday evening arrested the two stalkers and booked them under IPC section 354D (following a woman and contacting, or attempting to contact such a woman to foster personal interaction repeatedly despite a clear indication of disinterest by such a woman).
 
