NEW DELHI: Delhi chief minister   continued his apology spree, now saying "sorry" to Union finance minister and BJP leader   in a   he has filed against him. Jaitley has accepted the apology, reported ANI quoting sources.
 
 
 Jaitley and Kejriwal have moved a joint plea before a Delhi court seeking to settle the criminal defamation case following the   leader's apology.
 
 Additional chief metropolitan Magistrate Samar Vishalvsaid said the court will take up the application, filed by Jaitley and Kejriwal through their respective counsels, tomorrow.
 
 Joining Kejriwal in the apology were three of his   (AAP) colleagues Sanjay Singh, Raghav Chadha and Ashutosh. All four, in a joint letter, apologized to the BJP leader.
 
 Jaitley had filed a Rs 10-crore defamation suit against Kejriwal and five other AAP leaders -- Raghav Chadha, Kumar Vishwas, Sanjay Singh, Ashutosh and Deepak Bajpai. All six alleged financial irregularities in the Delhi and District Cricket Association ( ) when Jaitley was its president.
 
 "These allegations made by me were based on information and papers furnished to me by certain individuals who represented to have first-hand insight into the affairs of DDCA. However, I have recently discovered that the information and the imputations contained therein are unfounded and warranted and I was clearly misinformed into making these allegations," wrote Kejriwal and his colleagues in the apology to Jaitley.
 
 Kejriwal and his colleagues then said they withdraw all allegations against Jaitley.
 
 "I offer my sincere apology to you and your family members for any harm caused to your reputation as a consequence of my allegations," the AAP leaders' joint apology further said.
 
 They then asked to "end the unsavoury litigations between us". 
 
  
  
 
 Kejriwal's apology spree began last month, with "sorries" to the BJP's Nitin Gadkari, the Congress party's Kapil Sibal and the Akali Dal's Bikram SIngh Majithia.
 
 On March 19, Kejriwal and Gadkari submitted a joint application in Delhi's Patiala House court seeking withdrawal of a 
  filed by the latter. The application was submitted after Kejriwal wrote a letter to Gadkari in which he regretted making defamatory remarks against the leader. 
 
 "I made certain statements, without regard to its verifiability, which seem to have hurt you. I have nothing personal against you. I regret the same. Let us put the incident behind us and bring the court proceedings to a closure." wrote the AAP chief to Gadkari.
 
 Last month AAP's senior leader Manish Sisodia defended the raft of apologies, saying his party is not interested in any "ego fight" and doesn't want to spend time in legal wrangling but in the service of people.
 
 "If someone is hurt by our remarks, we will apologise. We will not make it a fight of ego. We are here to work for people. We have not spared time for court, we have spared time for us so that we could fight for people," said Sisodia to reporters on the premises of Delhi Assembly.
 
 
 
