KOLKATA: Sexual-assault charges by a girl student have rocked yet another south Kolkata school campus, leading to the arrest of a school staffer, with the two incidents being separated by barely 1.5km and a few hours.

 A class-IX student of a prominent Bengali-medium school accused a non-teaching staff of molesting her inside a classroom in the presence of three other girls when most of their classmates had gone to attend a sports trial. The incident took place on Thursday afternoon and cops arrested   (38) from his residence at 8.30pm on Friday, within hours of the girl’s parents lodging the complaint. Barua was remanded in police custody till February 12.
 
 Barua’s arrest came barely hours after cops arrested Soumen Rana, dance teacher of a south Kolkata English-medium school, for molesting a class-II student of the school. Educationists fear the two back-to-back incidents, com-ing within 10 weeks of last November’s sexual assault on a nursery student by the PT teachers of another English-medium school, may contribute to a climate of fear among parents and erode the relationship of trust between them and school managements.
 
 But the reaction of the Bengali-medium school management, where the latest incident occurred, indicated that school administrations seem to be getting better at handling these crises. This school made no attempt to deny the incident.
 
 Unlike what was seen in previous incidents, where the first response of the school administrations was to stonewall the complainant, ask for “evidence” and deny anything had occurred, the school this time did This school gave the girl’s parents a patient hearing and claimed it had informed cops of the incident soon after learning about it.
 
 The girl’s FIR said she had stayed back with three of her classmates in school on Thursday when others had gone for the sports trial. One of her friends suffered a minor cut on her hand and they went about searching for first aid when they found Barua downstairs. It was after administering this first aid that Barua touched her objectionably and molested her.
 
 He then threatened her to keep the matter under wraps and even demanded that she pay him Rs 400 to avoid “further untoward consequences”. The frightened girl, who was crying hysterically, informed her friends and teachers. She returned home and told her mother on Thursday evening about what had happened at school.
 
 The victim’s mother said the school authorities gave her a patient hearing on Friday but initially tried to convince her not to lodge a police complaint. “I told them that my allegations were not against the school but against one individual. What happened to my child may happen to others as well. My husband, too, wanted us to take a strong stand and refused to let the culprit get away,” she told the media. The family then went to the police station.
 
 The teacher-in-charge of the school said: “Guardians have told us about their concerns and we will soon take a call.” She added that the girl had met her along with her parents on Thursday itself. “I heard them patiently. The accused has been working for the past 10-12 years. The parents of the victim returned to the school on Friday and handed me a complaint letter. I took a decision to the best of my ability and did what was needed at the time. I immediately informed the police about the incident. The parents went to the police station later and filed a formal complaint,” she said.
 
 
