NOIDA: Three mega infrastructure projects are all set to be thrown open to Noida citizens on January 24, Uttar Pradesh Day. 

 These include the long-awaited multi-level parking facility at Sector 18 and two underpasses at sectors 94-95 and 60-61. UP Chief Minister Yogi Aditya Nath will flag off all the projects via video conferencing from Lucknow while a formal programme will be held at Noida’s Mahamaya Ballika Inter College in Sector 44.
 
 According to officials, while the two underpasses will be thrown open to traffic immediately after the inauguration, the multi-level parking facility will commence operations only across three floors — two basements and the first floor. 
 
 The reason all the six floors are not being opened is because elevators are still being installed. The entire facility will be opened to the public in the next 15-20 days, they said.
 
  
  
 
 Sandeep Chandra, chief project engineer, Noida Authority, said, “All the three projects have missed their deadlines and have been delayed previously. However, they have been completed and the parking facility is in its final stages of completion and will be ready for use soon. 
 
 “All the projects will provide major relief to commuters from traffic congestion with their opening.”
 
 The Sector 18 multi-level parking facility will park 3,000 vehicles and will considerably decongest the gridlocked commercial area. Presently, nearly 2,000-2,500 vehicles park in the sector daily. Within the multi-level parking complex, four-wheelers will be charged Rs 30 for the first two hours and thereafter Rs 10 every hour. 
 
 Two-wheelers will have to pay Rs 10 for first two hours and Rs 5 per subsequent hour. Work on this project began in July 2013 and was set for completion by July 21, 2015. However, it has since missed seven deadlines.
 
 The underpass near sectors 94-95 is expected to make the stretch between Kalindi Kunj in Delhi and NH-24 signal-free. It will ensure that those commuting from Faridabad to Sarita Vihar via Kalindi Kunj-NH 24 will not have to stop at any traffic signal. 
 
 It will also benefit the commuters moving from Delhi to sectors 125 and 94 in Noida, who currently use the Mahamaya flyover.
 
 The underpass at a major crossing of the city near sector 60 and Uflex will also provide major relief to commuters. The 650-metre-long facility with three lanes along each carriageway in combination with other underpasses in its vicinity, is expected to provide signal-free connectivity between Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad.
 
 Apart from launching the three infrastructure projects, foundation for another three projects in the city will also be laid on Wednesday. 
 
 The new projects include an underpass between sectors 96 and 126 under the Noida-Greater Noida expressway and two new industrial sectors along the e-way in sectors 155 and 156.
 
 
