Kolkata: The Abhishek Dalmia-led Renaissance Steel has filed a petition in the   (NCLT), seeking to stop Vedanta from taking over the ailing city-based Electrosteel Steels (ESL). The Anil Agarwal-led Vedanta was declared the highest bidder (H1) in the auction held last week. 

 Renaissance Steel has alleged that both Vedanta and   are not eligible to bid for the company under section 29A of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) as one of the provisions of this section says that any company that has executives who have been convicted for any offence punishable with imprisonment for two years or more under any Companies Act would not be eligible for apply. Dalmias have claimed that both the companies — Vedanta and Tata Steel — come under the above criteria.
 
 The hearing is slotted for March 8 by a Kolkata bench. A source in Renaissance added that law firm Fox Mandal has filed the petition with the NCLT on behalf of the company. The petition can have its effect on other bids of these two giants — Vedanta and Tata Steel. These behemoths are in the race for Essar Steel and Bhusan Steel, along with others in NCLT. 
 
 When contacted, Tata Steel just said, “We are bound by the non-disclosure agreement (NDA) and hence would not be in a position to make any comment.” An email sent to Vedanta did not elicit any reply till the time of going to press. 
 
 Renaissance Steel had submitted a resolution plan for ESL on January 4, 2018 to resolution professional (RP) Dhaivat Anjaria. Three other resolution applicants (RAs) Vedanta, Tata Steel and Edelweiss Alternative Assets Advisors also submitted their respective plans to the RP on the same day. 
 
 The Dalmia firm has claimed that it came to know that two RAs — Vedanta and Tata Steel — are not eligible to bid according to Section 29A of the IBC later.
 
 “Immediately, we brought this fact to the knowledge of the RP of ESL during our meeting with them on January 31, 2018 in the presence of their adviser from Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas. We also sent them mail on January 31, 2018 in this regard along with all the evidences available in the public domain. But the RP did not take any cognisance of our allegations,” a source in the firm has alleged. 
 
 According to the Dalmia firm, it has not got any reply from the RP. The last meeting of the committee of creditors (CoC) was held on February 27, 2018 wherein all the resolution plans were discussed and Vedanta was declared the highest bidder (H-1). The RP was also authorised to re-negotiate with Vedanta.
 
 The source added, “This was despite the legal opinion from experts submitted by us. At last, when the RP nor the CoC did not take cognisance of our objections, and opinion submitted by us was not taken into consideration, we filed petitions in the NCLT on March 05, 2018 requesting not to allow the RP to further negotiate with the H-1 till the eligibility of the RAs is determined. Matter is expected to come up for hearing on March 8.”
 
 
