NEW DELHI: On December 14, four men offered a lift to an MNC executive waiting at a bus stop in Gurgaon. After robbing him, the men strangled him and dumped his body in the bushes. On December 26, a 19-year-old woman, working as a sales woman at a mall in Gurgaon, was gang-raped by two men in a cab in south Delhi.

 The incidents have again put the spotlight on safety of passengers in Delhi-NCR, even as the illegal cab-sharing business continues to thrive. While there are occasional crackdowns by police and government agencies, they hardly serve as a deterrent. 
 
 Passengers continue to risk their well-being for the simple reason that, in absence of last-mile connectivity, these cabs provide a cheap option, especially during peak hours. By picking up passengers illegally, these drivers earn anything between Rs 2,000 and Rs 3,000 a day, with an average waiting time of two minutes at each location.
 
 
  
 
 TOI visited several hotspots, such as Nehru Place, Dhaula Kuan and Mahipalpur, and found that these cabs — mostly hired by BPOs and IT firms for ferrying their employees — illegally picked up passengers at will. A ride from, say, Dhaula Kuan to Gurgaon Central, costs a passenger between Rs 20 and Rs 40.
 
 Around 5pm, all types of vehicles — with or without commercial permits — start lining up at these stretches. Any given trip sees nearly a dozen people packed into these rickety cabs, not only violating traffic rules but also putting lives at grave  .
 
 While the drivers TOI spoke to seemed indifferent to safety issues, the passengers cited various benefits: they can avoid a long walk to the nearest metro station or a lengthy wait for a bus. Prohibitory orders issued by police and occasional filing of FIRs are, obviously, not a problem. 
 
 A senior police officer said: “There are over 10 lakh cabs plying in the city through the day. Drivers are prosecuted if they are caught violating traffic rules.” The drivers, too, seem ready for the occasional crackdowns. “We don’t pick up passengers on a sharing basis if police are conducting a check,” said Kishor Pal, a cab driver with whom TOI caught up at a bus stop near Dhaula Kuan.
 
 Atul Kumar, a Gurgaon resident, is one such regular commuter. “These taxis are readily available and give you the comfort of a car for as low as a bus fare.” To negate ‘dangers’ such modes entail, Kumar usually travels in a group. 
 
 Till October, police had booked more than 2 lakh vehicles for different violations. The meagre challans, however, have done little to rein them in.
 
 
