NAGPUR: Though the situation is not alarming, large number of children in city are suffering from unusual high grade   with dry  . The fever is not coming under control by the anti-pyretic drugs (medicines used for reducing fever). There has been a surge in such patients in the last fortnight or more.

 Paediatricians are saying that at least 20-50% of all children patients are suffering from this unknown viral fever in city. They are apprehending that the present weather conditions, where it is neither too   nor too hot and the atmosphere is dry, are responsible for such large number of patients. As many as 50% of these children are also found to be allergic to dust which is increasing day by day in city due to multiple type of construction activities,” said Dr Vasant Khalatkar.
 
 Dr Khalatkar, from south Nagpur, says that improving the immunity through healthy food is one solution to prevent this as preventing cross infections is not very easy. Schools should allow such children to avoid classes for at least 48 hours.
 
 Dr Suchit Bagde from north Nagpur tells that temperature variation is adding to the physical conditions that are responsible for the present spurt. He said that viral fever with bronchitis along with gastro-enteritis is also seen. There is dry cough as well.
 
 
  
 Dr Satish Deopujari from central part of city however sees the present situation as very normal. He says such fevers are common in this period. But he is against prescribing any cough syrup to the children. “Pollution could be aggravating allergic reactions and compounding the effect,” he said.
 
 Dr Avinash Gawande from the Government Medical College and Hospital explains the present situation as ‘antigenic shift and drift’ which means weather is also responsible for such conditions. Taking lot of fluids, adequate sleep, avoiding crowded places, handwashing and influenza vaccine are some factors that can reduce the affects to some extent. “Secondary infections are also common with such viral fevers which too need to be handled,” he said.
 
 Dr   from Central avenue area says that two months back also the situation was quite similar. There has been a resurgence. He too stressed that the fever is not responding to anti-pyretic medicines. Even sponging with cold water does not help. “Patients are requiring 4-5 days of hospitalization. I have seen children from standard X and XII who are suffering from such viral attack. Since the disease is viral there is no use giving any antibiotic. Hence, patients take longer to resume normal condition.
 
 Kalpana Dhareshwar, principal of Mothers Pet Kindergarten, said the viral is affecting lot of school kids and staff. “This is a very persistent kind of a viral that’s not going away even with regular medication. Earlier this used to happen during the start of monsoon season, but now it’s a regular feature. This has affected attendance of both students and teachers,” said Dhareshwar, who with almost three decades of teaching experience is one of senior most academicians in city.
 
 
