Mumbai: Insurance regulator   has turned down a proposal by   (TPAs) to manage healthcare plans for public sector companies (PSUs) without group insurance. This means that companies will need to buy group health insurance to avail the services of TPAs.

 Four years earlier, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) had said that TPAs can manage healthcare for state and central governments in addition to insurance companies. Recently,   had invited bids from TPAs to manage a healthcare plan that the energy major was providing as part of its employee benefits. The TPAs then sought a clarification from the regulator as there was a view that PSU undertakings can be seen as an extension of the government. 
 
 However, IRDAI, through a circular, clarified that PSUs do not come under the ambit of the relaxation which allows TPAs to provide healthcare schemes ‘promoted, sponsored or approved by central government or any state government’. This relaxation was provided four years ago to enable states that provide   under the assurance model appoint administrators.
 
 According to TPAs, healthcare benefits by companies pre-date health insurance in India. For instance,   has been managing its health insurance since 1975. “Many companies are now looking at outsourcing the management of these schemes to TPAs as they have a national network and run a 24/7 call centre,” said the CEO of a   firm.
 
 Some corporate employers and state-undertakings are reluctant to take the insurance route as the 18% paid on premium adds to the cost. “Health insurance is not a catastrophic risk and some employers feel that what they need is only administration expertise that is available with TPAs rather than risk management, which is with insurance companies,” he added. The regulator is reluctant to have TPAs representing corporates as they are agents of insurance companies. While promoters of TPA firms are free to float a new entity to service corporates, PSU undertakings are keen to have companies that qualify for technical bids to avoid fly-by-night operators.
 
 IRDAI’s contention is that TPAs have come into existence to serve insurance companies. Also, there is fear that if TPAs are allowed to get into activities outside insurance, regulatory gaps would be created which could be a problem in future.
 
 
