This birthday This birthday will mark not only a new new beginning for actor  , but also some bittersweet endings. His show ' ' will end on the special day — May 18 — marking an important development on the professional front. He says, “It has been a fulfilling journey. I don’t know whether it’s lucky or unlucky for the show to end on my birthday, but I want to take it positively. I am grateful to God, as I have not been out of work.”

 While he hasn’t made any plans for his birthday, he is certain about taking a break before he is back in action. “I want to take a break of a month or two to give my body some rest. I am exhausted and might plan a trip abroad,” he says.
 
 The Delhi lad has had a rather interesting journey in showbiz. While he didn’t aspire to become an actor initially, once he set his heart on it, his parents gave him a year to make it. He recollects, “After completing MBA, I worked with a corporate company. However, I didn’t like the idea of restricting myself to rules and following orders blindly. So, I quit. Though I was always inclined towards joining the glamour industry, I never aspired to get into acting. I was happy modelling and doing ads. I come from a middle-class family and my parents gave me a year to make it or return home, as they had their inhibitions about me moving to Mumbai, alone. I bagged my first commercial in the first month and assumed that it’s going to a cakewalk, but there was no work for the next five months and I exhausted my earnings. I used to spend days giving auditions. There was a time when I couldn’t find a house because of my single status and had to sleep in my friend's car for days on end. I was so busy finding a roof over my head that I couldn’t take up any work. Around that time, I decided to try my luck on TV, as the money was better than commercials. However, I had no professional training in acting and people would mock me at auditions. Instead of giving up, I vowed to improve my acting skills and prove them wrong. Though I struggled a lot in the beginning, once I managed to get a foothold, I started taking up challenging work. I came to Mumbai on April 12, 2014 and I am happy where I am today. Bagging ' ' has been the turning point in my career. Since then, there has been no looking back. I joined ' ' post the time leap, but it ended in just three months. That’s when I decided that I won’t join any show midway. 'Naamkarann' is the only exception to that rule, because the makers convinced me that it’s going to be an interesting journey.”
 
 Though Naamkarann has run for over a year since he joined it, Zain prefers finite series. “Daily soaps get monotonous and as an artiste, you don’t learn much as you are expected to do the same thing over and over again. In finite shows, the story doesn’t get dragged unnecessarily. I wonder how shows manage to run for years,” he observes.
 
 While he was seen as the quintessential TV hero on 'Naamkarann', the actor played the antagonist in 'Tashan-E-Ishq'. Ask him about it and Zain says that negative characters offer wider scope for artistes to perform. Having said that, he wants to stick to positive characters for some time.
 
 So, what next? “I would love to try my luck in films and be a part of a biopic, as I like to watch stories based on real characters," he replies.
 
 Well, he was also in news recently for saying that he would love to marry  , his heroine on 'Naamkarann'. Ask him about it and he says, “I didn’t mean it that way. What I said was misconstrued. We are good friends.” So, is he in a relationship? “My lips are sealed,” comes the reply.
 
