Karnataka is going to have a Parliament-like building, circular with wooden pillars carved in the style of the 12th century   to be built at a cost of Rs 650 crore in memory of saint reformer   (also known as Basaveshwara) and his  .
 
  It will mix technology with an ancient facade, complete with modern facilities and the world’s largest terrace garden. Like the fictional Indraprastha palace of the Pandavas in the Mahabharata or the fabled Ali Baba’s cave, this building will have voice-activated doors and pillars. If a visitor says “Sharanu Sharanarthi” (the way the followers of Basavanna, called the  , greeted each other) the pillar will recite a vachana (philosophic poem written by Sharanas) or a door will open.
  
  The Congress government under Siddaramaiah, which is trying to woo the powerful Lingayat community ahead of the April-May state assembly polls, has announced Rs 100 crore funding for the project, which is a representation of the Anubhava Mantapa (hall of spiritual experience) that Basavanna reportedly oversaw. This building will come up over 7.5 acres. The Parliament House in New Delhi is spread over six acres and was built at a cost of Rs 18 lakh between the years 1921-27, nearly a century ago, about 2.4 percent of what the new edifice will cost.
  
  The Anubhava Mantapa and its concept of democratic exchange of views shot into limelight after Prime Minister Narendra Modi mentioned it in his motion of thanks to the President’s address, in Lok Sabha on February 7. A week after this mention, Congress president Rahul Gandhi visited the site, with a galaxy of his party leaders, followed by his BJP counterpart Amit Shah about 10 days later.
  
  “Anubhava Mantapa was the first Parliament. The concept of parliamentary democracy did not come from the British, it came from Basavanna in the 12th century,” the Anubhava Mantapa’s head Gurulinga Pattaswamy told ET. “All people from all castes, besides women, were treated as equals, they were allowed to freely express their doubts and ideas to reform and uplift society in this place. What united everyone was their devotion to the principles of the Lingayat religion.”
  
  Basavanna was, according to varying accounts, either the treasurer (finance minister) or the Prime Minister of the kingdom of Kalyana in north-eastern Karnataka. The king, Bijjala of the Kalachuri dynasty, was his friend and supported all his reformist ideas that promote socialism, gender, caste, class and equality. .
  
  Basavanna is said to have set up the Anubhava Mantapa, also known as Mahamane, where he sat down with people from all castes and gender to discuss philosophy, social issues and politics. In his zeal to eradicate caste, he promoted a marriage between the children of two of his followers, one a Brahmin, the other a shoemaker. Unfortunately this act led to an uprising in the kingdom and ended with the death of the bride and groom. The disillusionment that followed saw the death of Basavanna a year later and of Bijjala.
  
  While most of this history is not disputed, some scholars argue that Anubhava Mantapa is just a concept of equality. Other researchers into the literature of the period, called Vachana (spoken) sahitya (literature), including the slain Dr MM Kalburgi, however, have stated that it must have been an actual building on the bund of the Tripurantha lake near Basavakalyan town in Karnataka. There are no traces of the original Anubhava Mantapa, though efforts were made to find its ruins by trawling the bed of the Tripurantha lake. In 2004, the Karnataka government set up the Basavakalyan Development Board to determine how to improve the area and make it a spiritual as well as tourist destination.
  
  Currently, there are several buildings around the lake, including a tourist hall, which Rahul Gandhi visited, and monuments to several of Basavanna’s disciples, called Shiva Sharanas. “The Basavakalyan Development Board called for concepts and then tendered out a contract to construct an Anubhava Mantapa, keeping in mind the philosophy and tenets prescribed by Basavanna,” Babasaheb Gadde, who has designed the winning project, told ET. The compound wall will be a 15-feet high with a 15-feet wide walkway, with parking built under it. The pillared first level will be 60 feet high, with a 300 ft radius, while the topmost dome will have a diameter of 100 ft. Gadde estimates that it will take a visitor three days to just go through the entire building.
  
  There will be no air-conditioning as is known now: A new cooling system that does not use much electricity has been invented for this structure. The breath-taking building will be made of stone, marble and wood and is likely to take 10 years to construct. “All the carving, unlike in the earlier days, will be made with machines, so the pace will be faster,” Gadde said. The building envisages six levels of concentric circles of increasing height, in keeping with the Lingayat philosophy of the six stages to attain mokha (salvation), which are Bhakti (devotion), Mahesha (more concentrated devotion), Prasaadi (one who has savoured the sacred offerings to Shiva), Pranalingi (one whose life is Shiva), Sharana (one who has surrendered to Shiva) and   (one who has blended with Shiva). The top level of Aikya will be a 770-seater auditorium, in memory of the mahaganagalu (followers) of the same number who participated in the Mahamane.
  
  “It is a meditation room as well as a spiritual discourses centre. There is a shoonya simhasana (zero throne) in the middle, in line with the concept of the Anubhava Mantapa,” Gadde explained. This room is surrounded by six petal shaped structures on the fourth level, each of which are 150-seater open auditoria, where holograms will play lectures on screens. The building will also offer smaller rooms as discussion or “thought” centres for people seeking more knowledge and individual meditation rooms.
  
  The Lingayat principles of kayaka(livelihood/work) and dasoha (service) will be reflected through the “live” statues (using robotics) of the Sharanas on the third level, open terrace garden, while the Aikya level, shaped like the ishtalinga (soul-linga, the ultimate concept of Basavanna where the human and Shiva are one) will cover anubhava (spiritual experience). Other Lingayat concepts like the ashtavaran (eight shields that help the devotee reach salvation) are reflected in the eight doors to the building, while the panchachara (five codes of conduct) are reflected in the standalone pillars around the building. A yoga centre, a mega dining hall and a fully equipped research centre are the other attractions.
  
  “We were given a lot of conditions to design the building, like it should reflect Lingayat ideals and not more than 10 percent of it should look like any other building in the world. We have worked with all that and come up with this design,” Gadde said.
  
