Nagpur: In its third crackdown in as many months, the National Council for Teachers Education (NCTE) has derecognized seven more colleges affiliated to Nagpur University (NU) for the next academic session, taking the tally to 15.

 The action was taken after these colleges failed to fulfil the prescribed norms.
 
 Of the seven colleges, six are offering Bachelor of Physical Education (BPEd) courses while one is Bachelor of Education (BEd) college. Another Master of Education (MEd) college has been served show-cause notice and asked to reply within a month, while a BED college has been allowed to shut down.
 
 Dhantoli-based Nagpur Sharirik Shikshan Mahavidyala, which runs from the Indian Gymkhana premises, is among the six colleges.
 
 Eight institutes, including 4 MEd colleges, were already recognized by NCTE when it started taking strict action against errant institutes.
 
 The Bhopal-headquartered Western Regional Committee (WRC), in its 290th meeting held on March 21 to 23, deliberated over 123 TEIs from its jurisdiction comprising Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat.
 
 On February 4, TOI had reported about the NCTE’s decision to derecognize 17 BEd and MEd colleges for the academic session 2018-19 from Maharashtra after they failed to comply with its norms. Four well-known MEd colleges affiliated to NU were among the errant institutes.
 
 On January 10, TOI had reported about the beginning of NCTE crackdown with derecognition of 14 colleges across the state.
 
 Besides the seven NU colleges, six education institutes from rest of the state too were de-recognized. The latest action takes the tally to 44 across Maharashtra.
 
 The seven BPEd colleges are located at Sawarkar Nagar, Dhantoli, Hingna, Kamptee, Pulgaon, Narkhed and Gondia district.
 
 Following last month’s action, just four MEd colleges would be left for UG students to choose from in the next session. Bhandara’s Anurag Adhyapak Mahavidyalaya, KC Bajaj College of Education’s PG Department of Education at Jaripatka, Kamptee’s Shantiniketan College of Education (MEd) and Suyash College of Education at Dighori were the four derecognized colleges.
 
 BU PG education department, Priyadarshini College of Education, Zulekha College of Education at Shanti Nagar and Wardha’s Kasturba MEd College will be able to admit students for 2018-19.
 
 This month’s 13 institutes and the 31 derecognized earlier were issued revised recognition order to abide by the provision of NCTE Regulations, 2014, in the last couple of years.
 
 As per the HRD ministry, close to 16,000 colleges are offering education courses such as MPEd, MEd, BPEd, BEd and DEd. In the last one year, over 1,000 institutes were issued show-cause notices over their failure to furnish requisite data through affidavits as sought by NCTE.
 
 An NCTE official said another 3,000 institutes will be issued notices soon.
 
 Last month, 14 BEd colleges from the state were derecognized. They included Adhyapak Mahavidyalaya run by General Awari Smruti Shikshan Sanstha at Siraspeth, BG Patel College of Education of Gondia, Geeta Shikshan Prasarak Mandal of Jaitala, and SP BEd College of Deshapnde Layout.
 
 Rest of the 10 colleges were from places like Akola, Washim, Jalgaon, Osmanabad, Nandurbar, Nashik, Satara and Thane.
 
 
