MUMBAI: Almost 15% of   and   students in Mumbai who cleared the HSC exam on Wednesday, secured distinction—a score of 75% and above. While the number of distinctions in the science stream was 29% higher compared to last year, commerce   saw a 6% drop.

 The Mumbai division, which comprises Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Palghar, had 3.31 lakh students appearing for the HSC board exams, of which, 2.79 lakh students passed the exam. Across all streams, the   boasts of 38,291 distinctions, up from last year’s 36,424. Among the four streams, the number of distinctions increased in science,   and  , while the commerce stream saw a dip. The success rate in the commerce stream too took a hit.
 
 While Mumbai ranked second last among the nine divisions with a success rate of 84.47%, the division had the biggest share of students with a score of above 90%. Out of the state’s 5,486 students scoring above 90%, 2,288 were from Mumbai.
 
 According to principals, both teachers and principals were better acquainted with the syllabus this year. “The syllabus and pattern had undergone a change last year. This year, the teachers were better versed with the syllabus and hence, were able to teach students better,” said Sangeeta Srivastava, principal, T P Bhatia College of Science, Kandivli. At the junior college, 386 students secured a distinction, higher than last year.
 
 Vidyadhar Joshi, vice-principal, VG Vaze College, Mulund, said the patterns are becoming more ‘student-friendly’ since the past few years. “Additionally, students prepare for competitive exams and the rigour prepares them to write for the best possible marks. Now, students from the humanities stream score over 90 marks in subjects like sociology, political science and languages. Similarly, students have the choice of opting for more scoring subjects such as foreign languages and IT,” Joshi said.
 
 Junior college teachers, however, are worried about the trend of increasing scores. “The higher the marks, the higher the expectations. These will be very difficult to match for the batches to come. The marks may not be a real reflection of a students’ understanding of the concept or learning, which is not healthy,” said a teacher, requesting anonymity.
 
 
