BENGALURU: Senior BJP leader   seems to be having the last laugh as the national BJP leadership has decided to field him from   City constituency. This is purportedly seen as an attempt by the leadership to put an end to the rift between the two prominent leaders from Shivamogga — party chief B S Yeddyurappa and Eshwarappa — that has created a vertical split in the party.

 On Saturday, Yeddyurappa made the announcement in Shikaripura about the party’s decision. “Eshwarappa will be our candidate and another contender for the seat S Rudregowda will be made member of the legislative council,’’ he said.
 
 Till recently, there was uncertainty over who will get the ticket as Yeddyurappa was keen on fielding his trusted man Rudregowda from the constituency. Rudregowda, who had contested the 2013 election from KJP floated by Yeddyurappa, had lost by just 278 votes. Eshwarappa was pushed to the third place. 
 
 However, after Yeddyurappa rejoined the BJP ahead of 2014 Lok Sabha elections, Rudregowda had also followed the suit. Since then, there was a tussle between Eshwarappa and Yeddyurappa. Eshwarappa had openly revolted against Yeddyurappa last year over the appointment of a few KJP leaders as district BJP unit chiefs. 
 
 Hartal Halappa hints at joining Cong
 
 Former minister and BJP leader Hartal Halappa on Saturday hinted that he might join the   if he’s denied ticket to contest from Sagar constituency in Shivamogga district. There’s a fight between Halappa and former MLA Belur Gopalakrishna for the ticket and the party is said to be in favour of the latter after an internal survey predicted his winnability. 
 
 “How can they give ticket to a man who stood third in the last election? I will consult my supporters and decide on the future step. During my college days I have worked in the Congress,’’ he said. 
 
 Halappa had also gone to KJP and he was confident that Yeddyurappa would get him ticket after he returned to the BJP. Yeddyurappa had even publicly said Halappa would be the candidate from Sagar, a month ago.
 
 
