JOHANNESBURG: It was easy to feel a bit out of place if you happened to be around Jozi on Sunday morning, walking your way to the Wanderers. It seemed more like walking up to the Eden Gardens, if not for the weather and the signboards. It looked more like South Africa were on an India tour and not the other way round. Once inside the bullring, the melee echoed so brutally into the eardrums of every South African cricketer and fan that India couldn’t have asked for a better ‘home crowd’.

 
 It didn’t matter who won the toss — South Africa did, for the record. It didn’t matter who batted first — India did. All that mattered was entertainment and India provided it in plenty, winning the first of the three T20 Internationals by 28 runs. Barring opener Reeza Hendricks’ 50-ball 70, chasing India’s 203, the hosts were never in the game.
 
 Coming into this game, the chasing team had won the last four T20s at this venue. South Africa skipper   decided to bank on this recent bit of history, not forgetting this Indian team’s affinity to chase either.
 
 However, batting first, India decided to offer the twist in this Johannesburg tale.
 
 Riding on Shikhar Dhawan’s 39-ball 72, laced with 10 boundaries and two sixes, scored at a strike-rate of 184.6, India seemed well on course to a 200-plus score the moment they took guard. Dhawan’s partner Rohit Sharma went about briskly for a nine-ball 21, Suresh Raina — making an India comeback — never looked rusty during his seven-ball 15,   continued his fine form with a 20-ball 26, Manish Pandey finally got an opportunity for his 27-ball 29 while MS Dhoni (16 off 11) and Hardik Pandya (13 off 7) wrapped it up with short, hurried contributions.
 
 It proved to be a total way beyond South Africa’s reach, especially with the hosts missing out on AB de Villiers in the middle-order. There are few venues around the world that can match the bullring for the noise it can create. Even the half-attempted strokes coming of Indian bats began to appear like high-scoring ones.
 
 South Africa began the chase like they had done in some of the One-day games over the last two weeks, starting off briskly and capitalising on the loose deliveries off the new ball. This time, it wasn’t an Aiden Markram trying to compliment  , but the 28-year-old Jon-Jon Smut walking in with 29-year-old Hendricks. A chanceless 29 runs from 2.5 overs meant they knew where they were heading and that was just before   struck, getting Smut caught at square leg. The gates opened soon.
 
 The UP bowler, easily the most impressive on tour, made excellent use of the knuckle ball to fox the South African batsmen as they attempted big hits off him. That he bowled ten dot balls in his four overs only goes on to show how valuable his contribution was on a batting paradise.
 
 Bhuvneshwar would go on to pick a five-wicket haul and only the highly-impressive   would go without a wicket, but as lines blurred between good shots and average ones, it didn’t matter either who got the wickets. The party continued.
 
 Farhaan Behardien’s 27-ball 39 remained the only knock complimenting Hendricks’ half-century. That aside, Dhawan’s knock, Bhuvneshwar’s spell and India’s fielding swept South Africa away.
 
 
