NEW DELHI: The public works department ( ) has revived its Rs 300-crore project to decongest   between   and   near Salimgarh bypass. The reworked plan has been sent to the Delhi government for approval.

 The plan is to construct two flyovers and widen the existing road on a 5.6km-long stretch to ease traffic flow. Though the project was approved by Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning and Engineering) Centre ( ) in 2014, it was put on hold as the cost was estimated to be extremely high due to land acquisition.
 
 The project is back in focus with lieutenant governor Anil Baijal asking government agencies to decongest this stretch. In December, Baijal held a meeting, which was attended by CSIR-Central Road Research Institute experts, to discuss the congestion problem. The experts have suggested both short- and long-term steps, including construction of flyovers.
 
  
 PWD has modified the design of the flyover at Majnu ka Tilla intersection, the main problem area. As per the previous plan, land had to be acquired at Majnu Ka Tilla as adequate space was required at the surface level for the ramp. “But now we have proposed staggered ramps. The two carriageways will touch down at different locations and provide adequate space on the existing road,” said an official.
 
 The other flyover will come up at Metcalfe House intersection. The width of the road between Majnu Ka Tilla and Old Hanuman temple, which is now 40-60 metres, will also be increased to 90m. The reworked plan was sent to the government in December. 
 
 This stretch impacts traffic flow on Outer Ring Road and the neighbouring areas. Besides ISBT at Kashmere Gate making it a busy stretch, this is also the main connecting road to National Highway-1 and north Delhi. S Velmurugan, senior principal scientist, traffic engineering and safety division at CSIR-CRRI, said, “The traffic on this stretch is increasing 3-5% every year. The present volume is 6,000 passenger car units during peak hour.”
 
 Traffic on this stretch has also increased since widening of Outer Ring Road from GT Road to   and due to the signal-free Geeta Colony bridge and Salimgarh bypass. “Roads on both sides of this stretch have been widened and the existing road can’t take the load,” said an official.
 
 Traffic movement, Velmurugan said, has to be regulated as a bottleneck is created where Salimgarh bypass merges with Outer Ring Road. “High-speed traffic from eight lanes of Salimgarh bypass and Geeta Colony bridge merges with the arterial road, which is just a four-lane carriageway. We have suggested controlled release of traffic at this point. Traffic signals should be installed here for alternate discharge of traffic,” he said.
 
 Experts have also suggested stopgap arrangements. “After ISBT, traffic going towards Majnu Ka Tilla can be allowed partially in the wrong direction for nearly a kilometre as the traffic volume on the other carriageway is relatively less,” said Velmurugan. 
 
 
