MUMBAI:   (28), a partner of Mojo’s Bistro and son of former IPS officer K K Pathak, was produced before the holiday magistrate’s court at Bhoiwada metropolitan court on Sunday and remanded to police custody till January 12.

 Yug, who was arrested on Saturday, appeared in a blue T-shirt and jeans, kept his head down while public prosecutor Sanjay Wadhwani sought maximum police custody. “The rest of the accused are to be arrested and we want to carry deep investigations, hence we need maximum police custody,” Wadhwani told the court.
 
 Advocate Rizwan Merchant and associate advocate Swapnil Wagh argued that police arrested Yug based on an interim report though he was very much available for investigations. “My client twice recorded his statements till Saturday, when police, based only on the fire brigade’s probable supposed cause of fire, arrested Yug. The fire report is preliminary and is yet to be accepted. What is the role of Yug?” asked Wagh.
 
  
  
 
 N M Joshi Marg police, probing the case, stated in their remand that the fire brigade report has concluded the blaze started at Mojo’s, as its owners had carried out illegal civil work, erected illegal partitions, and had bypassed safety of its patrons by blocking the passage and emergency exit. The remand stated that besides Mojo, partners of   also carried similar illegal constructions despite BMC serving them several notices under MRTP Act. 
 
 “Yug has kept mum and has not spilled much on the illegality, and has pushed blame on his partner, Duke Tulli, saying he was handling those aspects of the hotel. Now Tulli, who had been visiting the police station till Friday, has gone underground,” said a police official. “Even as the fire brigade report indicted Mojo’s for causing the fire, it does not reduce the culpability of the owners of 1Above pub. Both are equally responsible for carrying illegal constructions and causing a death trap for patrons,” said Deven Bharti, joint commissioner of police (law & order).
 
 Initially, police had concluded that the fire started at 1Above pub at Kamala Mills, in which 14 persons died due to suffocation. But the fire brigade’s probe found the fire started at Mojo’s. Yug and Tulli are partners at Mojo. Tulli is a Nagpur resident. 
 
 Both were booked on Saturday for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and their names were part of the first FIR registered. Police are also looking for three partners of 1Above (Kripesh Sanghvi, Jigar Sanghvi and Abhijit Mankar). Police have also issued an LOC against the three, suspecting that they have fled India. Sources said the Sanghvis have sent messages through a mediator that they plan to surrender on Tuesday.
 
 Crackdown on eateries resumes
 
 BMC carried out a demolition drive in various parts of the city against illegal encroachments of several restaurants during the weekend. BMC said some structures were partially demolished earlier, and on Saturday the entire illegal encroachments were removed. Officials demolished illegal extensions of several restaurants in Bandra and Andheri. tnn
 
 Another blaze in Lower Parel
 
 A minor fire broke out in an office in a four-storey building at Shiv Shakti Industrial Estate, Lower Parel, on Sunday morning. Fire brigade personnel controlled the blaze within an hour and no one sustained any injury. tnn
 
 
