CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh debt recovery tribunal ( ) on Tuesday directed Qadian MLA Fateh Jang Singh  , his brother and Rajya Sabha MP  , and their family members to declare all their movable and immovable assets on an affidavit in the Rs 30.80 crore loan outstanding towards the Punjab and Sind Bank in Chandigarh.

 The loan was taken in 1995 for Fateh Jang’s company - Bajwa Agro Industries Ltd in Qadian and Bajwas have failed to repay it.
 
 The DRT-II presiding officer   said in case they fail to file their replies by April 20, their defence would stand struck off. Apart from Bajwas,   resident Jagdish Bishnoi, who has also mortgaged his property in Kharar for the loan, has also been directed to file his reply.
 
 The order has been passed since the loan amount, along with the interest claimed by the bank (Rs 30.80 crore), is more than the value of the mortgaged properties (Rs 2.97 crore) by the Bajwa Agro Industries Ltd, his wife Haneela and Bishnoi.
 
 In compliance of the DRT’s March 6 directions, Fateh Jang was himself present before the tribunal on Tuesday along with senior advocate  . However, he submitted that Partap Singh was unable to remain present in the tribunal due to the ongoing Parliament session. He also sought exemption for his wife Haneela’s personal appearance. Qadian MLA further submitted since his mother Gurbachan Kaur was no more, he and Partap Singh were her two legal heirs.
 
 The TOI, had reported on Tuesday that Fateh Jang and his family members had not only failed to clear around Rs 30.80 crore outstanding loan amount of the Punjab and Sind Bank but the legislator has also chosen not to disclose it as liability in his election affidavit filed on January 16, 2017.
 
 The tribunal on Tuesday exempted Fateh Jang and other defendants from personal appearance in future unless specifically mentioned in the order. Appearing for the bank, advocate I P Singh supplied all relevant documents to Fateh Jang’s counsel during the case hearing.
 
 It was in January 1995 that the bank sanctioned a term loan of Rs 50 lakh with additional cash credit limited of Rs 1.03 crore to Bajwa Agro Industries Ltd at Qadian. The company, owned by Fateh Jang and promoted by Partap, was established in March 1993 and was engaged in production of edible oil and solvent extraction. Since the loan has not been paid back over these years, the Chandigarh DRT had on March 6 ordered if Fateh Jang, Partap Singh, their mother Gurbachan Kaur, Fateh Jung’s wife Haneela and Ferozepur resident Jagdish Bishnoi do not appear in person on March 13, an order will be passed ex-parte.
 
 
