SURAT:   members of Surat district panchayat have upped the ante against the district development officer (DDO)   for his advice to them to seek information through right to information ( ) on vital issues at the general body meeting held last week. 

 Senior member of district panchayat and chairman of social justice department   alias Kantali sat on a dharna at the panchayat headquarters at Mughalsarai here on Monday, demanding an apology from the DDO over his remarks on seeking information under RTI. 
 
 In a general body meeting held last week, independent member Darshan Nayak had raised the question on the need to provide information on number of cases reported at the panchayat-run hospital in nine talukas and availability of doctors in the district. The question was supported by Kantali. 
 
 Before the president of district panchayat   could reply, DDO K Rajesh allegedly gave an advise to them to seek information under RTI. To this, Kantali and Darshan Nayak got agitated and came face to face with DDO for snatching away the democratic rights of panchayat members. 
 
 On Monday, Kantali arrived at the panchayat headquarters along with his supporters and sat on a dharna. Within a few minutes, he was summoned by district panchayat president and was given an assurance that the issue would be sorted out once the DDO returns from New Delhi.
 
 Kantali told TOI, “The DDO can’t make such irresponsible statements at the general meeting. If the ruling party members are asked to seek information under RTI, then what about the common man? I have clearly told the panchayat president that I want an apology from the DDO for his statement. If the DDO fails to tender an apology, we will bring the notice of rebuttal against him on the panchayat floor.”
 
 The district panchayat president said, “The DDO is in New Delhi and once he returns, we will sort out the issue. I have requested the senior BJP member to withdraw his dharna programme.”
 
 DDO K Rajesh was not available for his comments. 
 
 
