Kolkata: The passenger vehicles (PV) vertical of   is replicating the success of Turnaround 2.0 chalked out for the commercial vehicles (CV) division to regain the ground lost to rivals and reclaim marketshare. 

 “The turnaround plan will enable the PV business to become self-sustainable in future and help propel us beyond the aspirations of being the no. 3 player in domestic market,” Tata Motors CEO and MD Guenter Butschek said.
 
 Once No. 3 after Maruti and Hyundai, Tata Motors had lost ground to other carmakers and slumped to No.7 before it began regaining marketshare after making a transition from its earlier vehicles to brand new ones. Two intermediate products — sedan Zest and hatch Bolt. Around 18 months ago, it launched the all new hatch Tiago, followed by compact sedan Tigor, compact SUV Nexon apart from multi-utility vehicle Hexa. 
 
 The company is now set to shift gears once again with the introduction of future-ready cars on two new platforms — Alpha and Omega. While the Alpha platform will account for hatchbacks, compact sedans and compact SUVs (vehicles of 3.7 metre to 4.3 metre), the Omega architecture will be used for full-size sedans, cross-overs, MUVs and full-size SUVs. 
 
 “In the first quarter of next year, we will introduce the H5X, a new SUV based on the Omega platform. In the second half of the year, we will launch the premium hatch 45X based on the Alpha platform. Over the next three years, we will develop an entire suite of products, including sedans and other products that are currently missing from our portfolio. By 2021, we will cover 90% of the passenger car market,” said PV business unit president Mayank Pareek.
 
 This year, Tata Motors will launch the Nexon AMT with both diesel and petrol engines, Tigor Sport with sportier styling and body kit and Nexon special editions Active and Arrow.
 
 Tata Motors currently has six platforms and 12 products. While the number of platform will be rationalised, the product range will be made more contemporary over time with old products being phased out and new ones being launched. 
 
 Tata Motors is also working on electric vehicles to not just grab marketshare in India but also leapfrog and carve out a space in the intensely competitive international auto market. While the company currently has an electric version of Tigor for the commercial market, company officials said it had the capability to launch eTiago for private use as well. 
 
 
