JALANDHAR: The   ( ) has finally submitted a complaint to the   senior superintendent of police ( ) in the case where loans worth Rs 7 crore was taken by over 200 borrowers from its branch in Bullowal village by pledging gold ornaments. The ornaments were later found to be substandard. The bank has named a jeweller, a financier and all 224 borrowers, most of them villagers, who have already complained to the police alleging that they had been defrauded by a financier to whom they had approached for small loans.

 Confirming that he has received the complaint, Hoshiarpur SSP J   said the bank had submitted a detailed complaint but he would first inquire into it as the borrowers had also levelled allegations. “It is important to first go into the modus operandi of the case as borrowers have also alleged that they are victims of the fraud,” the SSP said.
 
 The complaint has been submitted by SBI’s Bullowal branch manager  . The bank first held an internal inquiry, which confirmed that out of total 290 cases of gold loans in 224 ornaments were found to be substandard. Internal vigilance department of the SBI had also conducted a probe. In its complaint, the bank said the empanelled jeweller gave false certificates and the financier was also involved.
 
 A group of borrowers had submitted a complaint to the SSP on March 12. They had alleged that they had approached Fatehpur-based financier for small amounts who took them to the bank for gold loans. They claimed that they were not aware that loans worth lakhs were taken in their names. The villagers told police that the ornaments were also arranged by the financier for collateral.
 
 The collective amount of the loans at Bullowal branch is over Rs 7 crore. After re-evaluation the worth of the gold deposited has been found to be only around Rs 3 crore. Local SBI officials have pegged their losses at Rs 4.6 crore. It had come out that the loan money transferred by the bank in saving accounts of the borrowers had been withdrawn through loose vouchers.
 
 The scam started unfolding in February when a borrower approached them to renew his gold loan. When the bank officials re-examined the ornaments deposited by him, they found that those had turned slightly blackish. The officials then called the goldsmith who had certified the ornaments and he again certified that the gold was pure.
 
 “It raised our suspicion. We got it examined with another jeweller in Hoshiarpur who confirmed that the value was much less. We then decided to get all the gold deposits re-examined and found it to be substandard in 224 cases. They quality was fine in 66 cases,” branch manager Bhatti had earlier told TOI.
 
 
