AHMEDABAD: To improve the business ecosystem in   and to encourage private companies from Japan to invest here, Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) seeks to bring about sustainable economic development in Gujarat. The idea was proposed by Takema Sakamoto, chief representative,   office, while delivering a talk on ‘Japan-India Friendship: Activities of JICA in India’, at the Ahmedabad Management Association (AMA) on Friday.

 “The western dedicated freight corridor is the backbone of Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC) which passes through Gujarat,” said Sakamoto. “The development of basic infrastructure such as water and power supply in addition to boosting road connectivity are primary requirements for industrial development. JICA is trying to address these issues in India so that more private companies from Japan can make investments in India.”
 
  
  Sakamoto went on to say: “We’re looking at similar initiatives for Gujarat too — with the Japanese Industrial Park coming up in Sanand and other investments coming from Japanese automobile majors — to boost infrastructure and connectivity.” Sakamoto said to facilitate more automobile investments from Japanese companies, major assembly lines are required. “We’re working closely with the Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation in this direction,” he said. JICA has also initiated projects with Gujarat Investment Promotion Programme (GIPP), he said.
 
 In Gujarat, JICA is supporting projects such as Ahmedabad Metro, Dedicated Freight Corridor, High Speed Railway, GIPP, and Vocational Education Support for the Visually Impaired. An AMA Japanese course is run by JOCV. The Japanese Industrial Park in Gujarat is one of the ten planned Japanese industrial estates in India by JICA. Sakamoto emphasized the need to create a better regulatory framework to make the environment more conducive to investments. Sakamoto also stressed the importance of academic and cultural relations. “We’ve been sending Japanese language teachers to India for years now,” he said. “The idea is not just to make people familiar with the language but also with the Japanese culture, business practices, and ethics.” The talk was organized by JICA and Indo-Japan Friendship Association (IJFA) — Gujarat and Japan Information and Study Centre. Mukesh Patel, president, IJFA-Gujarat, along with AMA president, Rajiv Mehta, and other members were present at the talk.
 
 
