BENGALURU: Football fans, upset that Indian Super League ( ) final tickets were sold out within a few hours during the online sale a few days ago, can book their seats at the   on Thursday for the mouth-watering clash between   and  . The only catch is that they have to produce a government-approved photo identity card to buy tickets.

 Asked whether the ID cards are a must to buy tickets, an ISL official said: “Football lovers who wish to buy tickets should produce a valid ID card. Without ID cards, they won’t get tickets. This is to ensure there is no blackmarketing as there is a huge demand for tickets.”
 
 The official insisted the measure is only to avoid black marketing and not to address any security-related concerns at the stadium which has a capacity of over 25,000.
 
 
 
 The tickets were sold out online within a few hours and we expect a similar rush during the sale at the box office on Thursday. We’re insisting on ID cards to prevent persons from hoarding tickets. There will be cameras monitoring buyers,” he told TOI.
 
 “The spike in online inventory was witnessed after   won the second-leg semis. Within the next two hours, around 8,000 tickets were sold online,” he said.
 
 The tickets, priced from Rs100 to Rs 700, will be available from 11am tillstockslast (around 6,000 to 7,000 tickets) at Gate G of the   stadium. An individual can buy a maximum of four tickets and ID cards, including driver’s licence, voter’s ID or Aadhaar card are valid.
 
 According to experts, the restriction was part of the rules of the ticketing website. “It insisted on photo ID cards in the previous ISL finals too. It’s also the practice during big-ticket shows involving celebrities and highprofile music shows.”
 
 Meanwhile, a top Bengaluru FC official said they never asked for ID cards for buying tickets. “During our four-and-a-half years of operation, we have conducted around 55-60 matches across I-league, AFC Cup and ISL here but we have never asked for any ID card. We never had any such clause,” BFC’s Chief Technical Officer Mandar Tamhane said.
 
 Experts said it would be the first time ticket-seekers would be asked to show their ID cards to buy tickets. “There was no such rider on buying tickets earlier for any sports event. If the officials insist on ID cards, it could be a dampener for youngsters who may not have any ID card,” they said.
 
 
