NAGPUR: A random check by transport committee chairman   at Mahal area on Tuesday left the officials shocked as many passengers were found travelling in four city buses without ticket. Two conductors were suspended immediately by the transport panel chief. 

 Acting on a tip off that conductors are indulging in irregularities by pocketing fares, Kukde along with transport department flying squad conducted surprise checks in city buses on many routes including Bhilgaon-Pardi, Pardi-Sitabuldi, Bharatwada-Sitabuldi and Pardi-Sitabuldi. 
 
 “Twenty-nine commuters were travelling in a city bus from Bhilgaon to Sitabuldi. Only two commuters had tickets,” Kukde told TOI. Similarly, on Pardi-Sitabuldi route, the bus had 26 passengers while only one had the ticket.
 
 Similarly, in another bus on the same route, Kukde found 15 passengers of whom only two had tickets. 
 
 On being asked, passengers told Kukde that they had paid the ticket money to the conductors. 
 
 Soon after exposing irregularities of two conductors —   and   — Kukde directed the NMC’s transport department to suspend the duo by initiating an inquiry against them. 
 
 The   has entrusted the Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System Ltd (DIMTS) to operate the city bus service having four bus operators and two ticketing agencies. It is DIMTS’ responsibility to ensure that passengers do not commute without tickets apart from keeping a vigil on conductors. But the firm has failed to do its duty, said Kukde, adding five additional flying squads of the NMC’s transport department officials have been formed to curb this illegal practice.
 
 Recently, TOI had exposed that almost half of the conductors appointed in Aapli Buses indulged in irregularities. Of the 1,310 conductors, 632 conductors were implicated in the embezzlement and of whom 95 were sacked. The civic body has also recovered Rs5,63,470 fine from them. 
 
 Besides errant conductors, since July 2017, the vigilance squad also caught 3,296 passengers travelling without tickets and collected a fine amount of Rs5,50,130.
 
 
