In the upcoming silent thriller Mercury, directed by  , actor and director   will be seen playing a role like never before. Calling it a mass entertainer, the actor shares his thoughts about his role, the director and the benefits of having a silent regional film.

 
 
 I was excited. It is not often that someone who has been in the industry for so long gets offered something that’s never been done before. The actor in me was raring to go.
 
 
 
 Ha! There is very little that I can divulge at the moment. All I can say is that it is unlike anything you have seen me do before. Being the lead is great, but when I knew I was the antagonist, it was double okay for me. The actor in me has gone further than ever. There’s no dance or comedy like in my usual roles, and the last one and a half hours of the movie can be considered the climax. Mercury will be the best film of my career. I loved being the character that Karthik Subbaraj wanted me to be.
 
 
 
 Being a dancer, I was comfortable acting only with emotions and no lines. On stage, as dancers, that’s very common for us. And yes, it is the most challenging role I have done.
 
 
 He is great filmmaker, and a pioneer on so many levels. I have watched his work closely and now, I got to work with him. He is destined for big things.
 
 
 
 Yes I have. It’s a very good film but it is very different from Mercury. Mercury will surprise you and shock you.
 
 
 
 Of course! As it is, regional films are getting wider audience with every passing year. Such kind of movies will only increase the spotlight on the regional talent and films.
 
 
 
 No, definitely not. I always wanted to be in films, irrespective of what role I played in the industry. But all that I’ve become now, was not planned at all. It just happened and I just went along with it. Let's see where life takes me next.
 
 
 
 After this film, I have a couple of acting commitments to finish, apart from   3, which I will be directing. I’m quite excited about that.
 
 
 
