COIMBATORE: The national commission for safai karamcharis has unearthed documents that prove that discrimination was meted out against dalit workers in job allocation in urban and rural local bodies in the district. About 25 office posts are being held by non-dalit workers. The commission has ordered the city police to form a committee to review documents and file a complaint against the officials concerned.

 “These 25 non-dalit workers hail from backward community and most backward community. Most of them are Class X or Class XII pass outs and some are school dropouts. But, the civic body appointed them to posts such as office clerk, record clerk and office assistant,” said  , a member of the commission.
 
  of conservancy workers trade union   said that on compassionate grounds, children of deceased sanitary workers are provided the jobs. “Even though they have completed MBA, MCA, BE and other degree courses, they are asked to join as sanitary workers. They are not given these office jobs,” he said.
 
 General secretary of the Tamil Nadu Ambedkar Sanitary Workers Association R Tamil Nadu Selvam said that as per government order 174, workers could be appointed based on their educational qualification. “But the civic body continues to claim that candidates require to pass a typewriting exam to get office jobs,” he said.
 
 Calling it a kind of discrimination, police officers said that they will take action. “Either the   can rectify this and provide the eligible candidates these posts or legal course can be taken,” said a senior police officer.
 
 Corporation officials said that they had no other choice but to follow the orders of their senior officials, who insisted on typewriting as a necessary skill. Selvam said that as per the the revised government order, the workers can be promoted up to the post of assistant commissioner. “But, sanitary workers are not treated with respect and are forced to pick up garbage while other underqualified candidates are easily offered posts in the office,” said Selvam.
 
 Social worker Panneerselvam told the commission that the corporation had recently made one of the temporary workers permanent by passing a special resolution. “The contracted sanitary workers have been fighting to be made permanent for several decades. But, those close to   have been made permanent without any qualification,” he said. The commissioner also ordered a probe into this.
 
 
