Coimbatore: There is no stopping the mutual fund SIP juggernaut. Investors have committed about $10.3 billion (Rs 67,190 crore) through SIPs (systematic investment plans), the bedrock of inflows into equity MFs, in 2017-18, a massive 53% increase over the previous financial year. This is the highest ever mobilisation in a financial year.

 Inflows into SIPs stood at around $1.1 billion (Rs 7,119 crore) in March alone, the highest ever for a month. MF SIP accounts stood at 2.11 crore at the end of March, data with the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) showed. Incidentally, the total number of SIP accounts crossed the 1 crore mark only in August 2016. SIP is an investment option offered by fund houses where one could invest a fixed amount in an MF scheme periodically at fixed intervals—say once a month instead of making a lump-sum investment. The SIP instalment amount could be as small as Rs 500 per month. SIP is similar to a recurring deposit where you deposit a small /fixed amount every month.
 
 The MF industry added 9.70 lakh SIP accounts on average each month during 2017-18 against an average of 6.27 lakh SIP accounts added each month during 2016-17. AMFI data showed. The average SIP size was about Rs 3,375 per SIP account.
 
 SIPs are done almost entirely in equity schemes. The fixed income segment contributes only about 5% in volume terms and about 2% in value terms to overall SIPs. SIP is a convenient method of investing through standing instructions to debit the investor’s bank account every month, without the hassle of having to write out cheques.
 
 “SIPs account for 50% of new MF accounts. They have become a brand of their own,” says Raghav Iyengar, executive vice president, ICICI Prudential MF. “SIPs have been getting traction as investors are not trying to time the market,” says Srikanth Meenakshi, co-founder and COO, Fundsindia.com, an investment platform for MFs.
 
 “The fast pace of growth (in SIPs) is due to the network effect. People are buying MFs through SIPs as most others are doing so,” he explains. “This is the one of the easiest ways to start a new investment,” Raghav says. SIP has been gaining popularity among MF investors, as it helps in rupee cost averaging and also in investing in a disciplined manner without worrying about market volatility and timing the market. Financial advisors suggest SIPs for average retail investors as it is considered the best tool for creating wealth on a long-term basis.
 
 Industry officials and advisors believe that inflows into SIPs as long as the markets do not see a major fall. “It will sustain unless something drastic happens in the stock markets,” Srikanth says.
 
 
 
