CHENNAI: A day after it emerged that Chennai might host the Inter-Continental Champions Cup, involving World Cup teams like South Africa and New Zealand, ‘ground reality’ struck hard.

 
 Just 15 days after the   hosted the last ISL match between   and FC Goa, its playing turf wears a barren look. The otherwise lush green field, which was maintained by Chennaiyin during the ISL, has deteriorated rapidly even as the local league is on in full swing. Considering the sub-standard nature of the pitch, Chennai could well miss out on hosting the prestigious international event for a second successive year again.
 
 However, it doesn’t come as a surprise given Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu (SDAT)’s appalling negligence in looking after the ground. SDAT, state’s prime sports organ, which is in charge of the stadium, waters the field using in-built sprinklers for just a little over five minutes after the completion of   (CFA) Senior Division matches each day. Given the hot weather conditions in the city, the grass dries up quickly. In fact, the once lush green surface now has only patches of grass left and a large section towards the left half of the pitch has nothing but bare soil.
 
 SDAT, though, has no shortage of funds. According to a source, Chennaiyin have spent around Rs 1.54 crore to rent the stadium this season and paid approximately Rs 6.5 crore rent to SDAT over the past four years. In addition, the ISL franchise also undertook the relaying of pitch before the second season at an estimated cost of Rs 2 crore. Besides, they also pump in around Rs 30 lakh before every season to get the pitch ready.
 
 The source further informed that it takes around Rs 20 lakh to maintain a pitch for a year. “With Chennaiyin in charge of the ground during the seven-month long ISL, SDAT only needs to maintain it for five months and spend Rs 8 lakh roughly. But they are so lackadaisical that they have failed to do that. Imagine another ten days of such poor maintenance and the pitch will turn complete brown. If this goes on every year, Chennaiyin might look at alternatives,” the source told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 When TOI tried to contact SDAT member secretary Rita Harish Thakur, several calls went unanswered. Last year, when AIFF wanted to host the inaugural Inter-Continental Cup here, SDAT’s ‘huge demand’ for stadium rent saw the tournament shifted to Mumbai. With no change in SDAT’s poor administration, AIFF will be hard-pressed to name Chennai as the venue.
 
 “We are still in the process of finalising things and Chennai is still a venue. We will consider weather conditions, ground conditions before taking a decision. We will go for an inspection in the end of April and decide accordingly,” said AIFF general secretary  .
 
 
 The SDAT then has about a month to get its act right. A top government official said they will assist AIFF in hosting the event in the city. “We want to host international tournaments. If the stadium can host ISL for six months, we can host the Inter-Continental Champions Cup for a week. I don’t think that the stadium playing surface has deteriorated so much that we cannot host any matches in the near future. We want AIFF to approach us directly and we will help them in addressing various issues and sort things out,” the official said.
 
