MUMBAI: The police arrested three people for culpable homicide on Monday following the fire at a commercial complex in   even as the death toll rose to four. 

 The three arrested are  , director of  , and labour contractors   and Salim Maniar. Pranam was appointed by the high court to auction moveable assets of a telecom company that occupied three floors of the 11- storey Techniplex complex, where the fire broke out at 4.30pm on Sunday. 
 
 
  
 Search operations at the spot are still on as a labourer is missing. The fire department will also be sending a notice to the building owner as officials said the firefighting system was only partly functional. 
 
 “The complex was developed by the Balwa Group. The ground floor, seventh floor and eighth floor were given on lease to a telecom company, which wound up its operations. The Bombay high court-appointed an official liquidator in 2012 as the company had taken loans for operations. Pranam Enterprises was supposed to auction its moveable assets so that the loans could be repaid,” said a senior police official. 
 
 On May 26, Pranam made an official application to the complex manager, seeking permission to allow labourers into the premises, according to a   report. On the day of the blaze, over a 100 workers were working in the building. They were dismantling electronic equipment—some of it scrap and the rest in good condition- —to be taken to their godown in the eastern suburbs. “Power cables have to be switched off while removing electrical installations. 
 
 There were three different power supply lines; we are trying to find out if all of them were switched off,” said an official. The exact cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. But asource said that some electrical cables were cut off accidentally, causing sparks. Fire brigade officials said that the blaze started on the seventh floor. By the time, the fire brigade reached the spot, most labourers had managed to escape. “The building had several escape routes. Unfortunately, two of the deceased tried to take the lift and got stuck midway,” said a fire official. 
 
 While bodies of three of the victims—Naimuddin Saha, Ram Avtar and Ram Kirath Pal—were found late on Sunday, Shamshad Ali Shah was found dead early on Monday. “We believe that one more labourer is missing. We are opening up all offices that were shut on Sunday. As smoke had filled up the building, we stopped power supply and hence search operations became challenging,” said a fire official. 
 
 Chief fire officer PS Rahangdale said a blaze report would be concluded in a week. “The firefighting system and the main hydrant was functional, but the sprinkler and smoke detector were not,” he said.
