KOLKATA: After a consistent cold spell, the longest in recent years, the mercury has started rising and the Met office said the minimum temperature could touch 15°C by the middle of next week again. This seasonal change and the vast gap in day and night temperatures has become a cause for concern since it has led to a rise in viral and bacterial infections.

 On Sunday itself, the difference between the day and night temperatures was 12.4°C.
 
 “The peak winter is over and from Monday we will see a slight rise in the mercury. Though days will become warmer, early mornings will continue to give   a chilly feeling,” said   director (weather) at Regional Meteorological Centre, Kolkata.
 
 “The fluctuation in the temperature can cause viral and bacterial infections that include cold and cough, and upper respiratory tract infection. School-goers whose immunity is yet to develop should be extra careful,” said Dr  , consultant medicine at Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences.
 
 Doctors have been seeing a number of patients who are suffering from a dry and irritant cough that keeps one awake at night.
 
 They advise Kolkatans to keep their warm clothes on and avoid cold drinks before the body gets acclimatized to the changing weather. Any change in the colour of sputum could be due to bacterial infection and needs to be investigated.
 
 “We are also seeing a lot of patients whose asthma has worsened with the changing temperature. The fluctuation in temperature can trigger asthmatic attacks and the change from cold to hot can worsen COPD,” said Dr  , head of pulmonology department at Fortis Hospital, Anandpur.
 
 “The change in season can also result in seasonal affective disorder, a mental condition that causes lack of concentration and disturbed sleep,” added Dr Biswas.
 
 The minimum temperature on Sunday, at 12.9°C, was two notches below normal. This winter has seen the mercury staying below the normal mark without a break from January 5 to 23. But the temperature jumped up to 14.1°C on January 24 from the previous day’s 11.3°°C. It further shot up to 17°C on January 25, but dipped again on January 26.
 
 “This fluctuation was due to a western disturbance that caused rain over Sikkim and snowfall in parts of Darjeeling. This system had blocked the flow of the northerly wind and brought in the hot and moist southerly wind,” added Das.
 
