CHANDIGARH: After the opposition parties and the Congress’ own legislators picked holes in the farm debt waiver scheme, the state government has decided to modify the original system to rule out the possibility of inclusion of ineligible, particularly rich  , on the list of beneficiaries.

 From now on, farmers will have to make self-declaration of their land holdings so that those holding large chunks of land in other states, besides the NRIs, could be excluded. The move is aimed at plugging loopholes in the farm debt waiver scheme.
 
 The state government has blamed data provided by the secretaries of the cooperative societies for the recent mix-ups, alleging that their information could not alone be relied upon as they were all appointed by the previous Akali government.
 
 In a meeting of a group of Congress MLAs, convened by chief minister   on Monday, it was decided to also exclude from the scheme government employees and retired pensioners who pay income tax, to ensure that the poorest of the poor get its benefit. The MLAs highlighted problems with the present form of the scheme and pointed out that this was leading to resentment among farmers.
 
 The MLAs pointed out that there were many large farmers who had transferred a small part of their big land holding to their son/sons to take benefit of the cooperative loans, resulting in waiver of their loans despite their huge land holdings. There were instances of large farmers with land in Rajasthan but holdings less than 2.5 acres in   included in the debt waiver, leading to resentment. The party leaders suggested that the government could take affidavits about the land holdings before finalising beneficiary lists.
 
 Some NRIs had also ended up getting the benefit of loan waiver, which should have been limited to the deserving small and marginal farmers. There was a suggestion for issuance of waiver certificates district wise, with proper checking of revenue records to ensure that the real beneficiaries get the waiver.
 
 On the other hand, during the social audit in which the government agencies pasted lists in the villages, a large number of small farmers found their names missing. Also, many farmers got meagre waiver with some as low as Rs 3 or Rs 7, which annoyed the farming community.
 
 Meanwhile, the self-declaration will not be only about the land owned by the beneficiary farmer in villages of   but also in other states.   said it would also help prevent the Akali wrongdoings from adversely impacting the farm debt waiver scheme. These measures would help address various concerns of the MLAs, he said, responding to the issues raised by the elected representatives regarding the implementation of the loan waiver scheme.
 
 Addressing the apprehensions of the party legislators, chief principal secretary to CM   pointed out that the phased implementation of the scheme would work. Waiver of loans for farmers who committed suicide would be taken up after the committee set up by the   in this regard submits its report, he added.
 
 A notification pertaining to self-declaration will be issued soon.
 
 
