PUNE: The dense fog that halted flight operations at Delhi airport has had a ripple effect in Pune too, with 10 flights delayed by several hours. 

 With delays of four hours or more, announcements of refreshments outnumbered those about boarding or departures, at one point. 
 
 “There have been more refreshment announcements than boarding and departures, today at Pune airport (sic),” wrote   on social media.
 
 Techie Rajeev Dhawal’s flight from Delhi to Pune, which was scheduled at 9:30am, was delayed by more than four hours. “It was total pandemonium at the Delhi airport,” said  , a Baner resident. 
 
 “I had to join work on Monday, but only landed in Pune around 3.30pm. It was hugely frustrating,” Dhawal added.
 
 At the Delhi airport, at least 90 flights to different destinations got delayed, while 20 were cancelled. With visibility dropping to less than 50m, flight operations in Delhi ground to a halt between 8 and 10am. 
 
 The Pune-bound IndiGo flight (6E-789) faced a three-hour delay, while a Jet airways flight (9W365) on the same route took off more than four hours late, as was a   flight (SG-185), also between Delhi and Pune. 
 
 Such delays had a cascading effect on departures from Pune too, with flights to destinations other than Delhi. 
 
 A passenger, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “I had to get back to work on Monday, but then my flight was cancelled. I was travelling from Kolkata to Pune, but owing to the same fog at the Patna airport, the flight was grounded. I had no choice but to wait.” 
 
 Representatives of various airlines said they took every step to ensure passengers were informed about the delays, through text messages or social media announcements. “The Delhi-bound flights were badly affected, but then things started to get back to normal from the afternoon. However, fog remains an issue and there may be disruption late in the evening or early in the morning. Passengers have been requested to check their flight status before leaving for the airport,” a SpiceJet official said.
 
 
