Nihal Raj, better known as the   appears a bit distracted while giving the interview, as he is itching to join his friends in the next room in their games. That said, when the little wonder takes out his whipper and apron and dons the chef’s hat, he looks truly committed.

 Kicha last made headlines when he was invited at The Ellen Show, in which he, along with Ellen Degeneres, tried his hand at making puttu.   has now gone a step ahead, with the international show Little Big Shots, hosted by  , featuring him. We listen in as Kicha talks about his encounters with Steve Harvey, Ellen and the culinary adventures he would like to take up.
 
 
 It was amazing and full of fun. Everyone on the sets was laughing, and we also joined in. The way Steve Harvey talks is very funny too. I liked being part of this show more than the earlier ones, as I completely enjoyed his company.
 
 When I met him, the first thing I told him was that I wanted to touch his shiny head. He burst out laughing, and bowed in front of me, so that I could touch it twice!
 
 
 
 I feel very happy and proud. I feel that I am representing India to the world.
 
 
 
 
 In such platforms, we always make sure to take the best of India, especially Kerala. I chose falooda, because the dish represents our country, and I used coconut mousse to showcase the flavour of Kerala. When I prepared it, it came out really well. I am glad Steve Harvey liked it. The one he made was tasty too, especially the marshmallows.
 
 
 I want to try making a red velvet cake, because she being a baker, has been working really hard. I want to bake a cake to make her feel special.
 
 
 
 The first inspiration has been the cooking itself. I used to watch a YouTube channel, made by a kid like me, and loved every video he put out there. It was my mom who encouraged me to start my own channel when I expressed my wish.
 
 The chef I love the most is  . I like his tips, as he teaches how to cook faster. I also want to meet Sanjeev Kapoor, the best chef in India.
 
 
 
 The best part is when you are hungry, you just cook, and then you become hungrier. Then, you can eat all of it. (laughs) When you eat what you have made, you become happier.
 
 I want to try more and more recipes. I want to make the best cake in the world — a triple-decker chocolate mousse cake. There are many cakes, but I will make the best of them all.
 
