NEW DELHI:   Chairman M   on Sunday set in motion consultations on the notice of removal against  , amid indications that he will not take long to decide whether the notice is admissible at all and merits an enquiry.

 
 With the controversy over a notice for removal hanging over the high office of the CJI, Naidu is understood to be of the view that the suspense should be ended as soon as possible. This would mean the vice-president could reach a decision much sooner than earlier anticipated.
 
 Sources in the Rajya Sabha secretariat said Naidu spoke to legal and constitutional experts as part of the consultative process before admission or refusal of the motion. “The chairman, who was outside Delhi, returned early as some of those he wanted to consult conveyed their availability on Sunday,” a source said.
 
 Naidu met  , former secretary general of the 7th, 8th and 9th Lok Sabhas from 1984 to 1990; former law secretary P K Malhotra; former legislative secretary Sanjay Singh and senior officials of the Rajya Sabha secretariat.
 
 The vicepresident, who is the chairman of the upper House, also spoke to attorney general   and former   judge B Sudarshan Reddy.
 
 The consultation process is the first step in the motion. The chairman may consult individuals and examine relevant material related to the notice. The chairman is required to reach an assessment on whether there is a case of “proved misconduct or incapacity" against a sitting judge.
 
 Indications are that the submission of the complaint along with the rift in the SC where four seniormost judges have gone public about their grievances with the CJI over issues like rostering of sensitive cases, such as the judge B H Loya petition, is seen as a political move.
 
 If the motion is admitted, the chairman will constitute a three-member committee to investigate the complaint. It will comprise an SC judge, chief justice of a high court and a distinguished jurist. The committee will frame charges based on which the investigation will be conducted.
 
 A copy of the charges will be forwarded to the judge who can present a written defence. After concluding its investigation, the committee will submit a report to the chairman, who will then lay the report before the relevant  . If the report records a finding of misbehaviour or incapacity, the motion for removal will be taken up for consideration and debated.
 
 The motion for removal is required to be adopted by each House of Parliament by a majority of the total membership of that House and a majority of at least two-thirds of the members of that House present and voting. If the motion is adopted by this majority, the motion will be sent to the other House for adoption.
 
 Once the motion is adopted in both Houses, it is sent to the President, who will issue an order for the removal of the judge.
 
