NEW DELHI: Three vehicle thieves, who took away a man’s   in  , were fleeing when an unknown vehicle hit them in northwest Delhi’s   early Sunday. One of them, Bharat, was killed in the  . 

 Sunny, who was riding the bike, fled the spot with the vehicle, leaving behind Bharat and Bindu, who suffered multiple fractures after hitting the divider and is battling for life. His arm may have to be amputated. 
 
 Police said they received two calls within 10 minutes, one informing them about the theft and the other of the accident. They later found out that the same men were involved in both the cases. 
 
 According to police, they got a call from a businessman at 2.40am who stated that his Yamaha FZ had been stolen by three men. A team was rushed to the spot. Soon, they got another call by a local who said that two men were found lying in a pool of blood at the Azadpur flyover. A police team was sent there too. 
 
 Police said that after having stolen the bike, the men sped towards a narrow lane, which led to the flyover. Afraid that they might get caught, the thieves did not slow down the vehicle. The bike swerved towards the left at a turn when another vehicle hit them. 
 
 “They were going in a haphazard manner. A vehicle hit them and fled the spot. Since the bike was stolen just minutes before the accident took place, none of them was wearing a helmet,” a police officer said. The two were taken to  , where Bharat was declared dead on arrival.
 
 A senior police official said a case has been registered at the Adarsh Nagar police station and search is on for the   who fled. They are scanning CCTV footage of the area from where the bike was stolen and where the accident took place to ascertain the sequence of events.
 
 All the three thieves are residents of Shakurpur. According to police, Bharat was earlier involved in a case of theft. Since he did not get caught the first time, he planned to steal a bike again to make money and roped in Bindu and Sunny to help him with it. 
 
 Bharat’s body was handed over to his family members after a postmortem.
 
 
