CUTTACK:   on Friday ordered stay on the prohibitory orders imposed by   administration ahead of   in the city. 

 After the high court’s order, decks were cleared for smooth Ram Navami celebrations in Bhadrak. In pursuance of the order, the district administration lifted prohibitory orders issued under section 144 of CrPC, imposed since March 17, for five hours following which Kalash Sobhayatra for Ram Navami was carried out in the city. Besides, the organizers also made arrangements for yajna and other rituals to be held on Ram Navami.
 
 Notably, last year Bhadrak had witnessed communal tension after Ram Navami and anticipating a similar law and order situation this year, the district administration had clamped prohibitory orders on Kalash sobhaytra, Sankirtan and procession for Ram Navami to thwart possible breach of peace and harmony in the city.
 
 Opposing the administration’s decision, SriRam Mahayajna Samiti, the organization which has been conducting Ram Navami festival with fanfare in Bhadrak since 1991, had moved   high court. However, the bench of a single judge of Orissa high court on March 15 issued orders in favour of the Bhadrak administration following which section 144 of CrPC was clamped in the city. Challenging the single bench judge’s order, Samiti again moved high court and it got relief today.
 
 “The single bench judge had favoured Bhadrak district administration because they had submitted wrong figures about the dead and injured persons in the communal violence last year. They had mentioned that at least 13 persons had died and 88 persons were injured in the communal violence last year, which is completely false. The figures relate to an incident occurred in 1991 and not last year’s communal violence,” said petitioner’s counsel, Pitambar Acharya. 
 “Division bench of Chief Justice Vineet Saran and Justice B R Sarangi took note of our plea and ordered that Ram Navami will be performed as per rituals and allowed my petitioner to carry out Kalash Sobhayatra and Sankirtan procession on Ram Navami,” added Acharya. The court has also directed the collector and SP of Bhadrak to take all preventive measures to avoid any untoward incident during the rituals.
 
 Notably, communal riots had triggered in Bhadrak on April 5 last year after some persons of a community allegedly posted vulgar remarks on Ramnavami on social media.
 
