CHANDIGARH: Improper planning of work by the   administration led to idle asset creation at an expenditure of Rs 10.19 crore, said the comptroller and auditor general (CAG). It has reported the matter to the ministry of home affairs ( ). The electricity department with the help of   installed a grid sub-station at  , which is yet to be commissioned due to non-availability of 66 KV transmission lines.

 The administration in February 2009 had accorded approval for construction of a 66/11 KVMVA grid sub-station at Sarangpur at an estimated cost of Rs 9.89 crore. In November 2009, the electricity department entered into an agreement with Power Grid Corporation of India Limited (PGCIL) for the work at an estimated cost of Rs 9.87 crore.
 
 According to the agreement, construction of the sub-station was to be completed within 18 months from the date of release of first instalment or signing of the agreement, whichever was later. As the first instalment was released in June 2010, the project should have been completed by November 2011. However, the sub-station was completed and handed over by PGCIL to UT electricity department in September 2016.
 
 The department released Rs 9.48 crore for the project to PGCIL between June 2010 and February 2013. The total completion cost of the sub-station was Rs 10.19 crore. In addition, Rs 45.85 lakh was spent on construction of a boundary wall around the sub-station.
 
 Scrutiny of records revealed that the land for the sub-station was earmarked by the administration in April 2010. However, possession of the land was handed over to PGCIL only in January 2012, that is, after two and half years of signing of the agreement with PGCIL and 20 months after earmarking of the land. The department was late to hand over the land despite 20 reminders by PGCIL.
 
 In September 2012, a dispute was raised by the   on the title of a part of the land handed over by the administration for the substation. Though this part of the land belonging to the board, the UT architect department failed to depict this in the layout plan for the site as a result, critical works relating to the sub-station were planned on the disputed portion of the land. These works could be taken up only after the dispute with the board was resolved in February 2015. Failure of the administration to take into account the dispute with the   Board contributed to the delay in erection of the sub-station by over four years.
 
 Installation of 66 KV transmission lines was a critical requirement for making the sub-station operational and the administration gave approval in December 2012 and issued letters of intent in March 2013 to PGCIL. It also released Rs 17.67 lakh and Rs 46.76 lakh for these works as advance to the company without any formal agreement/work order. Later, due to the alignment of the transmission lines crossing the proposed Metro line, these works were not taken forward.
 
 
 The electricity department had not catered for this aspect despite advice of the administration to do so while issuing the administrative approval and expenditure sanction. An inspection undertaken by the electrical inspector in September 2016 pointed out deterioration in the condition of the installed equipment and in site conditions. Besides, electricity department had shifted one transformer of 20-MVA from this site to another sub-station. These had the potential of further impeding commissioning of the sub-station.
 
