PUNE: Suresh Raina’s patient 61 not out, along with Deepak Chahar’s 39 off 20 balls and Lungi Ngidi’s 4/10 denied   victory and a playoff spot as   won IPL-11’s final league match by five wickets at the MCA Stadium in Gahunje on Sunday. Chennai chased down 154 in 19.1 overs to clinch the match.

 
 
 
 
 With the result not favouring Punjab, Rajasthan Royals sealed the fourth and last playoff spot with 14 points.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 To qualify for the last four, Punjab, who had a poor net run rate, needed to register a victory by at at leat 53 runs. For that, the R Ashwin-led side had to contain Chennai below 100 runs after making 153 in 19.4 overs.
 
 Punjab did show fighting spirit while defending the target. Their pacers put Chennai on the backfoot with an early dismissal of in-form opener Ambati Rayudu (1), followed by two quick wickets of Faf du Plessis (14) and Sam Billings (0) in Ankit Rajpoot’s fourth over.
 
 But Punjab skipper R Ashwin introduced spinner Axar Patel just when the pacers were doing well and Chennai were struggling at 27-3. He probably wanted to save the fast bowlers for death overs but the move proved costly.
 
 On the other hand, Dhoni experimented with his batting order, first sending Harbhajan Singh (19) at No. 5 and then asking pacer Deepak Chahar to hold fort.
 
 Earlier, Manoj Tiwary utilised his promotion with a valuable 35 off 30 balls before David Miller (24) and Karun Nair
 
 (54) took Punjab to a respectable total.
 
 This was after Punjab had a horror start to their innings. Opener Chris Gayle, who did not contribute much to the team’s cause in this edition, was out for a duck. But more surprising than the early dismissal were the visuals of him walking out, even when umpire had turned down   and MS Dhoni’s appeal for a caught behind. While Dhoni was still contemplating a review, the West Indian batsmen had already left the ground.
 
 But the bigger blow for Punjab was prolific batsman KL Rahul’s cheap dismissal. He was bowled by Ngidi for just 7.
 
 Yuvraj Singh, who has been struggling with form, was replaced by Karun Nair, while Australian all-rounder Marcus Stoinis made way for David Miller.
 
 
