NEW DELHI: Armed assailants chased a car being driven by one of Delhi’s most dreaded gangsters, Sandeep Singh alias ‘Mental’, forced it to stop and sprayed 25 bullets on the occupants, killing the don and his associate on the spot in southwest Delhi’s   on Wednesday morning. The role of   gangs in the murder is being probed. 

 Singh (39) was booked in at least 16 cases, including murder. His aide, Pawan alias Ponny, had two cases registered against him.
  
  
 DCP (Dwarka) Shibesh Singh confirmed the incident and said a case under IPC sections of murder and arms Act was registered. A team under ACP Dwarka Rajinder Singh was formed to nab the suspects. The incident took place at 9am, when Singh and Ponny were headed to the Dwarka district court in a white Maruti Swift. The vehicle is registered in the name of Singh’s father, Rajender.
 
 As the duo turned towards Bamnoli village, a bike and a Santro car started following them, police said. The man on the bike fired a shot at Singh’s car as they approached a temple. Taken aback, Singh lost control over his car and crashed it into an electric pole. Thereafter, two men emerged from the Santro and opened fire at them. Both Singh and Ponny died on the spot. Police recovered more than 25 cartridges from there. An eyewitness, who works in a warehouse nearby, said the attackers had their faces covered. It was all over in under a minute. Police later recovered the motorbike from Pochanpur village. 
 
 “I heard a car crash and came out with my colleagues to check. At first, we thought it was a routine accident. But then, we heard a hail of bullets being fired and rushed back. Later, we went to the spot and saw two men lying dead inside the car,” the man said. Police said the duo was taken to Deendayal Upadhyay Hospital where they were declared brought dead. They said the accused fled towards Dwarka and efforts were on to trace them.
 
 An investigating officer said they were looking into all possible angles to the murders, including a dispute related to properties at Pochanpur village. Initial probe revealed that Singh was constructing flats on a 150-square-yard plot at the village, but had fallen out with his partner. Police said call details assessed by sleuths indicated that an altercation had take place between the two partners. Cops are also looking at the role of other active gangsters, including Vicky Dagar, Rajesh Bharti and Sandeep Dhillu, who escaped from police custody in February while out for a medical checkup.
 
 Police said Singh had been accused of grabbing disputed properties in Dwarka, Mitraon and Gurgaon. “He had come under the radar of these gangs as they are also active in the same area,” an officer said. Police suspect that it could also be a revenge killing by gangster Jaswant Dagar alias Moni. Singh had allegedly murdered Dagar’s elder brother, Pradeep, in 2012. Dagar, an accused in a triple murder case, had recently come out of prison on bail.
 
 Singh is survived by his wife and two kids who stay at Ghitorni. His initiation into the crime world started with selling illicit liquor. Later, he got into organised crime when his brother was shot dead, allegedly by gangster Tinku Hasanpuria. He earned the title ‘Mental’ when he murdered Hasanpuria in 2009.
 
 In 2012, he was cornered by cops at Jhatikra village in southwest Delhi, but managed to give them the slip. Ponny was also a resident of Najafgarh.
 
 
