CHANDIGARH: Controversial Congress leader  , who was arrested on Tuesday in a nine-year-old cheating case, faces an uncertain future.

 Though the court will pronounce quantum of sentence on March 31,  , who is councillor of ward number 18 comprising sectors 28, 28 and 30, is staring at a possible expulsion from Chandigarh municipal house. If the quantum of sentence is a minimum of two years, Babla, who was the richest candidate in the   elections held in 2016, will lose his membership of the MC house. He had declared assets of Rs 17 crore.
 
 As per the   ruling, an elected representative who is convicted of a crime and awarded a minimum of two-year imprisonment loses membership of the house with immediate effect. Legal expert Ajay Jagga said Babla will lose his membership and will be debarred from contesting elections in future. Even if Babla gets away with imprisonment less than two years, the sword of expulsion will continue to hang on him.
 
 As per the Section 36 (1A) of the   law extended to UT of Chandigarh Act 1994, if a councillor during three successive months is absent from all meetings without permission of the corporation, then the corporation may declare his seat vacant. The rules further states that if any councillor becomes subject to disqualification, the matter shall be referred to the administrator and his decision will be final. For initiating any such action against a councillor, the corporation will also have to issue a show-cause notice.
 
 Congress city president   and MC mayor Davesh Moudgil refused to comment stating that they are yet to see the order. On taking any disciplinary action against Babla, Chabbra said they will hold a meeting on Wednesday to take a call.
 
 This year, Babla had unsuccessfully contested for the post of mayor, which was won by Davesh Moudgil in a one-sided affair.
 
  has remained in news for wrong reasons throughout his political career. On August 19, 2009, Chandigarh police had registered a case of cheating and forgery against him in illegal shed allotment case. He was also booked in alleged illegal recruitment case on January 4, 2010. Police had also booked Babla on January 10, 2010, for assaulting public servant. Babla was also declared a proclaimed offender (PO) in a case of rioting registered against him and other Congress workers in 1997.
 
 
 
