AHMEDABAD: A city sessions court on Wednesday rejected the anticipatory bail plea filed by activist   and her husband Javed Anand in a case where the couple is accused of embezzling or misusing Rs 1.40 crore from funds granted for Khoj project under Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. The order was made available on Thursday. After receiving the lower court’s order, Setalvad filed a petition in the   high court challenging it. The petition may come up for hearing on May 28 before the HC.

 The complaint filed by the city crime branch says that the misuse of funds took place between 2009 and 2013 allegedly in connivance with some officials of the HRD ministry. The crime branch also accused Setalvad and her husband of using the money given for education by MHRD to promote enmity between two communities in a mala fide manner.
 
 Additional sessions court judge,  , observed in the order that a prima facie case is made out against Setalvad and her husband. “It appears that the accused persons are involved in the case,” the court observed.
 
 “The court has considered the averments in the complaint, role of the applicants (Setalvad and Anand) in the commission of the crime which is serious in nature, and on the basis of personal liberty the applicants cannot be permitted to misuse the process of law by invoking the provisions of Section 438 of the CrPC,” reads the order.
 
 Rejecting the bail petition, the court observed, “No discretionary relief at this juncture can be granted. If the application is allowed, then the faith of the public in administration of justice is likely to be shaken. Looking to the several factors pertaining to the applicants-accused, like larger interest of the public and society, it would lead to the conclusion that the application is required to be rejected.”
 
 This case was filed against Setalvad and trustees of Sabrang by Ahmedabad crime branch on the basis of a complaint by Setalvad’s former aide,  , who alleged that grants for educational purposes were misused to print and distribute material that could cause communal disharmony. Crime branch registered the FIR on March 30.
 
 The complaint had taken into account the report of a panel of the MHRD, which said that a prima facie case existed against Setalvad under sections 153A and 153B of the IPC
 
 .
 
 
