BHOPAL: Tension surged afresh in villages already reeling under tiger terror in Chhindi range of   of Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday with the killing of yet another child. What heightens the terror in these parts is that forest officials are clueless about the identity of the wild animal targeting humans.

 It is the third killing of a child in the same range in three days. This time, only the feet of the child were left behind. The distraught parents of the 10-year-old took the remains home to cremate. The third killing triggered panic in villages on the forest fringes. Foresters are also worried because the range has good prey base so they can’t understand why a tiger or leopard would target kids.
 
 Local administration and forest officials have launched a frantic hunt for the animal, pressing around 200 officials in combing operations, besides setting up 50 camera traps and six trap cages in the area.
 
 
 
 
 The fresh killing was in Chhindi’s   area on Tuesday evening where 10-year-old Savnasa Invati was with his mother, who was working in their mustard farm. Around 6pm, the mother returned home, believing Sanvasa had gone ahead. The alarm was sounded when the family realized the boy was missing. The predator had attacked so swiftly that the mother didn’t have an inkling though she was just a few feet away.
 
 The pitiful remains were found in a culvert inside the forest on Wednesday morning. The mother identified the boy from his feet.
 
 
 
 
 In the previous two cases, villagers recovered the bodies intact, but this time the animal had consumed its kill. Only the legs were left. It’s very tragic. We have been warning villagers to stay inside after dusk,” U K Subuddhi, CCF Chhindwara told TOI.
 
 He said there was a distance of 15km between the first killing (Mohlimata) and the third. And the distance between first and second killings (Bijoripathar) was a mere 5km, he said adding the same animal is suspected to be targeting children.
 
 “We are not sure if the children are being killed by a leopard or tiger. Experts have joined us from two national parks and we are trying to capture the animal,” said the officer. Chhindi range is about 60km from the district headquarters. To its west is   while   is on the east.
 
 The forest department has announced a compensation of Rs 4 lakh each to the families of all three children. The first victim was six-year-old Kalpana. She was killed while collecting firewood in the forest with her mother and sister. Her body was recovered around 100m from where she was attacked. Later that evening, a 10-year-old boy, Harses Tekam, was killed when he was sitting outside his house. His body was found in the bushes at a distance. 
 
