GUWAHATI: Prime Minister   on Saturday appealed to   countries and Bangladesh, Nepal and   to invest in the northeast which, he said, is at the heart of India's Act East Policy. Inaugurating the 'Advantage  : Global Investors' Summit' in Guwahati,   said, "The Act East Policy envisions increased people-to-people contact, trade ties and other relations with Asean countries."

 "Assam has been ranked first in the 'Ease of Doing Business' and is the most sought after state for investment at present," he said, adding, "balanced and fast-paced growth of the northeastern region will further energize India's growth story."
 
 Modi told the summit, attended by government and business delegates from India and 13 other countries, " It was a privilege for India to host the heads of 10 Asean countries as honoured guests at the Republic Day parade in New Delhi." 
 
 He described the summit as a "comprehensive vision" of cooperation between Asean countries and the benefits that their people get through such action. "Whether it's the Asean countries, Bangladesh, Bhutan or Nepal, we are all - in one way or another - dominantly agrarian economies. So the unity of our farmers in these regions can propel us to new heights," the PM added. 
 
 Assam chief minister   called upon all investors taking part in the summit to explore investment possibilities in the state.
 
 In his speech, Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal said, "The summit, though a humble beginning, is a historic event in the economic growth story of Assam. We are committed to turning Assam into a hub for economic activity in the region." He called upon all investors taking part in the summit to explore investment possibilities in the state and come up with more investment ideas. "We will meet all your expectations," he promised.
 
 On the first day, the summit generated investment commitments of nearly Rs 70,000 crore. A total of 176 MoUs were signed between the state government and 176 companies for investments in oil and gas, housing, healthcare, tourism, IT, handloom and textile, education, agriculture and animal husbandry sectors. The biggest investment promises came from two giant PSUs - Rs 13,000 crore from ONGC and Rs 10,000 crore by Oil India Limited.
 
 
