THRISSUR: With the 58th edition of the state school youth festival coming to a close on Wednesday, Kozhikode (864) maintained a slender lead over Palakkad (858) on Tuesday. But this time, Malappuram (845 points) and   (836 points) are also not far behind. Last year in Kannur, Kozhikode had trumped Palakkad to win the   cup for the 11th consecutive time.

 As per original schedule, only four competitions were earmarked for the concluding day. However, of the 52 items scheduled on Tuesday only 19 were completed till 6pm and the remaining items are likely to be over by Wednesday morning.
 
 Though   began on a controversial note due to the absence of the chief minister, there were no major issues barring the usual competition delays. Opposition leader   will inaugurate the concluding session at 4pm.
 
  
 Talking about the challenges of organizing the biggest cultural school event in Asia, education minister   said scheduling was the biggest challenge.
 
 “We had taken a decision to reduce the number of days from seven to five. Many warned us that this would be a tough task as programmes used to spill over to the next day even with a seven-day schedule. They came from people with good intentions. We had taken enough precautions. We enhanced the number of venues from 19 to 24 and in Thrissur all venues are close to each other,” he said.
 
 The minister added that the organizers had worked out a meticulous schedule. “For instance, 45 minutes were earmarked for performances in items like drama, including the time for setting the stage for the next team’s performance. If five minutes were saved, we could save one-and-a-half hours if there are 20 entries. We made these calculations based on assumption that there could be 60% appeals. But, the number came to 90% for some items and this prolonged schedules,” he added. He praised his colleague minister VS Sunilkumar for his organizational efforts.
 
 Complaints were also limited on the organizing front as the staff at the redressal forum received less than 30 complaints. They included issues like shortage of drinking water, lack of clean toilets and delay in schedule.
 
 Police too were happy as there were no major law and order issues. Commissioner Rahul R Nair said one lakh people attended the programme as audience each day and barring some minor issues there were no major problems.
 
 A youth was taken into custody by the police for trying to take photos of women by installing pinhole cameras in his shoes. Several were taken into custody for trying to enter festival venues in an inebriated condition. Similarly, other potential crimes were averted by prompt action of the shadow police, he said.
 
 
