NEW DELHI: With the capital’s specially designated   plagued by   of  , the   has decided to hire  .

 In a bid to cap the vacancies, last week the government told the Delhi high court it will take services of lawyers on a contract basis to ensure that prosecution doesn’t suffer in POCSO courts.
 
 The government also cited a response received from Union Public Service Commission indicating its inability at present to recruit and appoint public prosecutors. While acknowledging that 17 posts for prosecutors needs to be filled up in Delhi, the UPSC, as per the government reply filed in court, cited lack of clarity on an administrative issue as the reason why it has been forced to put appointments on hold.
 
 Returning the Delhi government’s file where it had requested the commission to expedite appointment of 17 PPs, the UPSC said it is first trying to verify from the Union home ministry if Other Backward Caste (OBC) certificates issued by authorities outside Delhi can be accepted to admit candidates applying for posts issued by Delhi government.
 
 “Necessary clarifications are still awaited from MHA. Accordingly it has been decided by UPSC that till the receipt of clarification from MHA in this regard, recruitments involving OBC posts are not considered for process at present,” the affidavit informs the high court.
 
 The Delhi government said that in the light of the stand taken by UPSC, it has been decided to rope in lawyers on a contract basis to fill up the existing vacancies.
 
 Since 2013, HC has been periodically monitoring efforts by the Delhi government, Centre and UPSC to fill up these vacancies so that the dedicated POCSO courts can function efficiently.
 
 Last year, a bench of acting Chief Justice   and Justice   had noted, “Even though extremely difficult, sensitive and complicated criminal cases, including cases under POCSO Act, are being prosecuted by the prosecutors, they are only assigned common space in court complexes.”
 
 “It needs no elaboration that these cases require confidentiality where they may be required to meet investigating officers, examine records, and prepare cases. These prosecutors appear in these cases against the top criminal minds and legal luminaries, without having the benefit of the bare essentials which are needed for effective preparation and legal representation,” it added.
 
 The PIL on which these directions came was filed by advocate Gaurav Bansal, who claimed cases of sexual offences against children are getting delayed in trial courts allegedly due to the Delhi government’s failure to appoint prosecutors. In his plea, Bansal had also referred to lack of number of independent public prosecutors in courts handling cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.
 
 He argued that looking at the number of cases under the POCSO Act as well as other acts , completion of trial within stipulated time was not possible if more independent special public prosecutors are not appointed. Last year HC had tasked Bansal with the job of visiting all POCSO courts in the city, inspect them and report issues that could be addressed by the court’s intervention.
 
 
