Kanyakumari: On completion of the three doubling-cum-electrification projects, the southernmost tip of the country will be connected to the rest via electrified fast alternative double line route from Kanyakumari to Chennai. The three projects cover 349 kilometres and will be executed at Rs 3,618 crore in three to four years. The line to Chennai via Kottayam and Trivandrum spans 1,007 kms while the one via Tirunelveli and Madurai stretches 742 kms. 

 On completion of the projects, more number of Mainline Electric Multiple Unit (MEMU), Intercity, Mail and Express trains will be introduced to connect Thiruvananthapuram and Kanyakumari. The longest doubling with electrification project among the three is the 160-km-long Madurai-Vanchi Maniyachi-Tuticorin section at an estimated cost of Rs 1,182.38 crore.
 
 In addition to facilitating tourism, the project is aimed at providing last mile connectivity to the seven ports in south India and for two more that are in the pipeline. The project will cover 17 stations where additional passenger amenities will be provided. A total of 19 major railway over bridges (ROBs) and eight foot over bridges will be constructed on this section.
 
 Doubling-cum-electrification of the 102-km-long Vanchi Maniyachchi–Tirunelveli-Nagercoil section would be done at an estimated cost of Rs 1,003.94 crore. A total of 12 stations will be covered on this route. Twenty major bridges and eight foot over bridges have been proposed to be constructed on the stretch.
 
 Similarly, the doubling and electrification of the Thiruvananthapuram Central - Kanyakumari section covering 86.56 kms will be carried out at an estimated cost of Rs. 1,431.90 crore. Nine major bridges, 25 RoBs, 10 railway under bridges and eight limited use subways are proposed to be constructed on this stretch, which will cover 16 stations. The projects that were inaugurated at Nagercoil Junction included an escalator at Rs 97 lakh on platform number 2 and 3, 100 per cent LED lightings at Rs 8.30 lakh and dedication of Wi-Fi services.
 
 
