Ahmedabad: The Supreme Court has directed the Gujarat government and the managements of private schools to jointly prepare a scheme to fix the percentage of profit that can be generated by schools. The SC also ordered that the private schools use the profits only to meet the objectives of the trust/society, for development of educational activities.

 While hearing appeals against the Gujarat government’s fee regulation law, the apex court asked both parties to prepare a scheme jointly and submit it to the court before the second week of July, when the hearing will be.
 
 Earlier this week, the SC asked whether fixing a percentage of surplus generated by schools can be finalized and said that the feature “can be incorporated when the fee regulation law is implemented for fixing fees, it will meet the ends of justice.”
 
 The court asked the schools and the government to “hold a meeting and determine the percentage of surplus that can be generated by schools according to a formula/standard which will be laid up”. The court further directed, “The schools shall be entitled to use the surplus only for the purposes of the objects of the society/trust related to education, inclusive of expenditure for operational expansions, augmentation of facilities, expansion of infrastructure and a reasonable surplus for establishment of a new branch or a new school.”
 
 During the hearing, private schools agitated their grievance that the fee regulatory committees rejected proposed fee hikes by not approving the incorporation of new facilities which would improve the quality of education.
 
 The SC directed the state government “not to question the decision of any school to provide a particular facility or things of a particular quality or standard which it considers appropriate for imparting education. The schools shall have a right to offer facilities they consider appropriate for the standards of education they profess to meet. The schools will be entitled to fix their fee structures to meet the cost of providing such facilities or standards”.
 
 Schools withhold results over non-payment of fees
 
 In two schools in Ahmedabad, results were withheld on Saturday over the non-payment of fees.Parents created a ruckus at Divyapath School in Memnagar after the management refused to declare results of those students whose parents had not paid full fees. This was the third occasion this month on which parents created an uproar when the school withheld results. A school official said, "When parents do not pay fees, we face a big question on how to run the school." The second school where this issue arose was St Xavier’s, Loyola. Some parents were denied results for non-payment of Rs 2,700 management fees. The results were declared only after they paid the amount.
 
 
