Mr   presented the final budget of his current term as CM and finance minister of  . The state budget will be spending Rs 2.09 trillion, a whopping Rs 30,500 per resident of Karnataka. By contrast, the government of India’s budget only amounts to Rs 18,000 per Indian.

 The state budget also spends more on things that affect daily lives – from health and education to roads and infrastructure. While the government of India’s budget garners weeks and months of attention in newspapers, state government budgets barely get a day or two of coverage from local news outlets.
 
 
 Lame duck budgets can easily get overanalysed, though they aren’t indicative of much. Whichever party comes to office this year, they will have the opportunity to rewrite the budget as they see fit, after getting elected. What we can tell from the new budget is that the burden of the state’s sixth pay commission will fall on the new government, and the cost of pensions and salaries will be Rs 10,000 crore higher than otherwise. While revenue expenditures have seen a significant rise overall, investments in this year’s budget are flat compared to last year. The budget also expects Rs 54,500 crore revenue from GST next year, a full 72% higher than GST receipts this year.
 
 The budget is a much better guide of the government’s priorities in 2017-18. It spent significantly less on urban development and irrigation last year than it budgeted, especially in terms of infrastructure.
 
 It is difficult to find credible information backing the government’s biggest announcements. Last year, the government announced that 3000 buses would be added to the BMTC fleet, without any announced changes in staffing, routes, and bus transit infrastructure. A year later, the city’s bus transport does not look noticeably different.
 
 This year, Karnataka followed the Centre in announcing its version of universal health coverage –  . For a meaningful universal health coverage across India, economist   estimated a cost of Rs 100,000 crore a year. An equivalent for Karnataka would cost at least Rs 5,000 crore. However, no allocation has been made in the overall health budget of Rs 9,140 crore.
 
 The budget does well to stay away from excessive borrowing, and too many new subsidies on the eve of state elections. However, a transformative vision of a new Karnataka fails to come through.
 
 (The writer is fellow & faculty at  )
 
