PUNE: The   (MahaMetro) and   have pegged the cost of the proposed Nal Stop flyover’s first tier at just over Rs35 crore.

 PMC and MahaMetro will jointly construct a 510m-long, two-tier flyover at Nal stop Chowk. The first tier will bear vehicular traffic, while the   rail will run on the upper tier. 
 
 The estimated cost of the two-tier project is around Rs56 crore, while the first tier is expected to cost Rs35.25 crore. 
 
 MahaMetro officials have submitted the project proposal and design to the civic administration for consideration and approval.
 
 According to the design, both tiers of the flyover will rest on the same pillar so that the least amount of space is occupied on the road for the construction of pillars. “Maximum area will be utilized for traffic. The work is expected to begin in the next few months,” an official said. 
 
 The civic administration has tabled the details and cost estimates of the flyover before the standing committee. The project is aimed at easing traffic flow on Karve Road, especially at Nal Stop, which is the busiest junction on the road. 
 
 Officials said that the flyover will provide direct access for vehicles travelling between Paud Phata and Deccan Gymkhana. The road below the flyover will be utilized by the vehicles coming from the Law college Road and Mhatre Bridge. The project is expected to reduce the waiting time at the Nal Stop junction traffic signal. 
 
 MahaMetro officials have already started civil work on Karve Road, between Ayurveda Rashasala and   college chowk. 
 
 Over the last two days, the work was extended to the patch towards   chowk. Barricades have been installed in the centre of the road. About 9 metres in the middle of the road is being utilized for Metro work. 
 
 MahaMetro has planned Metro work on Karve Road in three phases. The Nal Stop flyover will be built in the second and third phases. 
 
 MahaMetro officials said they aim to finish the flyover in the least amount of time possible by using advanced technology to install the spans. 
 
 
