CHENNAI: With the ruling and opposition parties planning a series of protests, hunger strikes and bandh over Centre’s failure to establish the   Management Board (CMB), the people of Tamil Nadu are in for tough times ahead. The administration too will be on tenterhooks for the next 10 days.

 The DMK-convened all party meeting on Sunday morning, attended by allied parties like the  , CPI, CPM, MDMK, VCK and  , has decided on a state-wide bandh on Thursday, April 5. After the meeting, the leaders suddenly headed to Valluvar Kottam in the city to participate in a protest demonstration in support of Cauvery, thereby taking the police and administration by surprise.
 
 While they courted arrest and were later released, the DMK issued a statement on Sunday evening asking its district secretaries to co-ordinate with district level office bearers of likeminded parties to keep up the tempo, by holding demonstrations every day until April 5, across the state. The intent here is clearly to put the ruling party on the defensive.
 
 For its part, the ruling   has already announced a hunger strike on April 3 against the Centre’s failure to establish the CMB. Though chief minister   and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam have opted to stay out of the hunger protest, the ruling party is keen to mobilize large crowds across the state on April 3, to drive home the point that it too is opposing the Centre.
 
 The day, AIADMK rebel leader and deputy general secretary of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK), T T V Dhinakaran will be heading to Trichy. He will participate in the “airport ghereo” protest planned by a few farmers’ association at the   airport. TTV and the AMMK have already held a day-long hunger protest on March 25 against Centre’s failure on CMB.
 
 If one thought the Cauvery issue will bring the opposition parties together under a common platform, it has not. The PMK has called for a state-wide bandh on April 11. “There is no chance of all opposition parties coming together. Everyone is going about their own agenda. While Cauvery is an issue that could have brought everyone together, the ruling party missed an opportunity to unite all parties for fighting against the Centre,” said a source in the PMK.
 
 The DMDK has planned a demonstration in Thiruvarur on April 6. Party president Vijayakant will lead the demonstration in the temple city, while the party’s women’s wing leader Premalatha will address the gathering there.   president Kamal Haasan had expressed his displeasure for his party not being called for the all-party meeting convened by the DMK. He had earlier said, if invited, a representative from the party will attend. But, it looks like DMK settled for its long trusted allies and friendly parties for the present.
 
