KALYAN/MUMBAI: The   came to light on Monday morning when the authorities at   in Kalyan received information that some of the students had the question paper on their mobile phones.

 Albin Anthony, director of Sacred Heart School, said, “Around one hour before the exam was to begin, we learned that some students had received the paper on their phone via WhatsApp. When we checked with the students, we found that a mobile number saved as ‘Vinita Madam’ had sent them the history paper at 9.51am. As the exam was yet to begin and question paper we had received was sealed, we called the board officials who asked us to verify if the papers were identical.” He added, “We opened the seal of the question papers and found it was the same paper. We informed the board about it. Officials asked us to take legal action against the teacher who sent the paper to the students.”
  
  
 The school has found that 14 students from different schools in the vicinity had received the paper on their phones. In a message, the tuition teacher,   Khatwani, asked her students to share the papers with other students too, said a source. Anthony said, “We are surprised that a teacher giving private tuition is spoiling the future of the students. We are against such practices.”
 
 When TOI visited Vinita’s residence, her house was locked. Neighbours confirmed that she took tuitions. When TOI contacted her husband Dilip Khatwani on the phone, he said he was not aware about the incident and would talk later. But later he didn’t take calls. Board officials said they would wait for the police probe to get leads on the source of the WhatsApp images. Subhash Borse, in-charge secretary of the state board’s Mumbai division, said, “We received a call from the centre about 10 minutes before the paper was to begin. We asked the centre in-charge to conduct the paper and then approach the police. If police find a lead on those involved in sending out images of the paper, we will start the administrative inquiry and take action.”
 
 After a series of HSC paper leaks in the past three years, the state board, this year, had sealed question papers in bundles of 25, which are opened in the exam hall itself in the presence of two students. The new formula, however, was not implemented for SSC exams, which means question papers are unsealed at the centre around 30 minutes before the exam begins.
 
