NAGPUR: In what could be termed as major relief for lakhs of pensioners across India, the Central   Accounting Office (CPAO) amended the scheme booklet allowing beneficiaries to submit   in November every year without having to appear in person. This major amendment was carried out by the Union ministry of personnel, public grievances and pension, in wake of several complaints from the old pensioners regarding inconvenience caused to them.

 A division bench of justices   and   then disposed of the PIL based on TOI's report of February 15, 2016. The PIL pointed out that the entire process of receiving pensions was very tedious. Due to old age and medical ailments, it is not always possible for pensioners to be physically present in the banks. Despite this, pension is not remitted to their bank accounts. These circumstances lead to denial of their right of receiving pension. 
 
 The office memorandum submitted by the department of pensions and pensioners’ welfare mentioned that it received complaints from some senior pensioners who are facing problems of digital life certificates due to non-acceptance of fingerprints by the system. Due to this, some branches are refusing the certificates by the pensioners.
 
 It advised that branches could use alternate biometrics like iris scanning in such cases. If both biometrics don’t work, the banks should accept a physical copy of the certificate to avoid any harassment to the pensioner. 
 
 “In no case should the pensioner be returned without accepting his life certificate because of non-acceptance of biometrics by the system,” it stated.
 
 The department also instructed the banks to make an effort to collect the certificates from the pensioner’s residence if s/he is unable to appear in person. It asked the banks to adhere to the norms and not to harass the pensioners or their families. It also called on the pensioners to prove their existence through Aadhar-based authentication of life certificate pointing out that the union IT department is developing a software in this regard.
 
 It added that a pensioner who obtained signature of officers specified under the rule is exempt from physically appearing at the authorized pension account holding banks. In case of a pensioner, drawing pension through a public sector unit, an officer of that bank can sign the life certificate. 
 
 Even a pensioner residing outside of the country can have his certificate signed by a notary, a banker or a diplomatic representative of India, through his authorized agent.
 
 
