LUCKNOW: What was always debated has been confirmed through technology. With focus on better   in the city, for the first time, a daily report is being prepared on commute time between two destinations.

 The officials involved in the project are using Google Maps to note travel time and then calibrate the mean and mode every fortnight.
 
  
 While minimum travel time was witnessed in the wee hours, it was noticed that on most stretches, the time taken to cover same distance increased three times in  .
 
 The concept was first used by   Lucknow Rajeev Krishna during Investors’ Summit.
 
 While hosting top dignitaries, men in uniform had to get roads connecting famous Old City monuments with trans-Gomti free of encroachment and traffic snarls.
 
 “We were asked to remain prepared for VVIP visits to Bada Imambara and the Residency. That is when we started studying important link roads and corridors,” said Krishna who along with IG and SSP divided the district into five zones and 19 traffic corridors. The next task was to identify peak traffic hour on these corridors.
 
 For instance, it took 9 minutes to cover 3.8-km distance from Anand Cinema, Kaiserbagh to Kamla Nehru Marg, Chowk at 1am, but 26 minutes were spent travelling the same distance around 7pm, which was a threefold increase.
 
 SSP Deepak Kumar said that five traffic inspectors have been assigned some corridors. “They have to bring down commute time, need to identify problems and suggest measures to improve traffic flow,” said Kumar.
 
 Cops have been asked to remove encroachments from these corridors and ensure that auto-rickshaws and erickshaws do not pick passengers at crossings.
 
 The peak hour commute time from   to Gole Market, Mahanagar, was 35 minutes but the same 7.2 km was covered in less than 20 minutes after midnight.
 
 Krishna assured that commuters would see change by May-end. “Such measures take time. We are monitoring the performance through Google Maps,” he said.
 
 IG range Sujeet Pandey is personally supervising the exercise. He is trying to revive e-challan system which has gradually become redundant.
 
 
