GURUGRAM: The Haryana government appears poised to implement the central Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010, by the end of this month, a move that officials say is aimed at controlling cost of treatment at   and fixing accountability in case of negligence.

  
  
 
 Health department officials claimed rules were being finalised for strict execution of the Act that will introduce a cap on prices for various treatments at private hospitals having more than 50 beds. 
 
 A majority of the big private hospitals, which would eventually come under the Act, are based in Gurugram and Faridabad.
 
 The officials added the move had come in the wake of a number of recent cases of private hospitals being accused of overcharging and negligence. Dr Aditya Chaudhari, additional director-general of health services, said, “The Haryana government is serious about implementing the Act. The rules are being formed and will be implemented soon.”
 
 The Act was implemented in 10 states —Sikkim, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Rajasthan Uttarakhand and Assam and all Union Territories except Delhi — till December 18, 2017.
 
 Following the trend, last month, the   passed the Haryana Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Adoption Bill, 2018, paving the way for implementation of the central Act, albeit with some modifications, to provide quality healthcare across the state. Once implemented, the Act would make it mandatory for hospitals with over 50 beds to display services they provide and their costs prominently. 
 
 Also, hospitals would have to display lists of their doctors, and disclose qualifications of nurses and other medical staff. “There have been complaints about hospitals hiring under-qualified nurses and medical staff. This practice needs to be stopped,” said a senior health official.
 
 Under the Act, a district registration authority will be formed that will register all hospitals and will have the power to inspect them. 
 
 Besides, a state-level council will be set up to keep tabs on the number of new hospitals coming up and monitor their functioning. Further, sources said there would be provisions that would make it mandatory for private hospitals to renew their registration every 5 years. Applications for renewal will be accepted or rejected (in case of serious negligence or violation of rules), based on their performance during the tenure. Currently, there is no provision of renewal of registrations of hospitals.
 
 “The government has made the changes and exempted hospitals with up to 50 beds, as we had recommended earlier. Now, we too will welcome the Act with open arms,” said Dr  , a surgeon.
 
 “The Act will help establish a control on corporate hospitals, which is needed. We feel this Act is fine,” said Dr  , President, Indian Medical Association, Gurugram.
 
 
