BENGALURU: India’s young shooters continued their surge on the world stage as Meghana Sajjanar and Elavenil Valarivan won the silver and bronze medals respectively in the women’s 10m air rifle competition at the   in Kuala Lumpur.

 
 Bengaluru girl Meghana, representing  , finished with a total of 248.5 in the final, losing in the gold medal shootout to Gabriela Vognarova of Czech Republic who tallied 249.5 points after 24 shots. Gujarat shooter Valarivan, the national champion, had to settle for the bronze with a score of 226.5 points after 22 shots.
 
 Earlier, in the preliminary round, Elavenil, the Ahmedabad girl who had scored a world record equalling score in the national selection trials last year, had shot a perfect 400/400 to advance to the final from the first relay while Meghana, who is doing her post graduation in computer science, came second in the second relay with a score of 398.
 
 “This was my first World University Championship and it was good to shoot the silver competing along with my teammate,” Meghana told TOI. “My target now is to do well in the next selection trials and get to the top of the rankings.”
 
 Meghana’s coach Rakesh Manpat, also a top international shooter, said her ranking suffered after her below-par performance in the last Nationals and the two trials in January. “If she can do well in the upcoming trials, she will be in contention to make the India squad for the World Championships and the Asian Games,” Rakesh said.
 
 In the team events, India won the gold in men’s 10m air pistol. The team comprising   (6th in individual final), Achal Pratap Singh Grewal (8th) and Nishant Sidhu scored 1725 points to leave behind Russia (silver, 1716) and South Korea (bronze, 1709).
 
 Indian shooters also shone in shot gun events at the prestigious meet. In men’s trap event, L Lakshay took the fourth position. His impressive show also powered India to the fourth place in the team rankings. In women’s trap shooting,   also came close to the podium but eventually finished fifth.
 
