COIMBATORE: The last-minute cancellation of an inauguration ceremony of a public health centre at   town panchayat has triggered a slew of allegations between social workers and officials of the locality. 

 The health sub-centre at Idigarai town panchayat was renovated to be made into a primary health centre. It was supposed to be inaugurated on March 31 by minister for health and family welfare C   and minister for municipal administration S P Velumani. But the inauguration was cancelled at the last moment. 
 
 While social workers say the former panchayat chairman I S   had used his political clout to cancel the inauguration, Sathish Kumar said the construction work at the facility was not complete and hence the inauguration was postponed.
 
 Idigarai residents said they had been waiting for a PHC since 1996. In 2016, they petitioned the then chief minister J Jayalalithaa, after which it was said in the assembly that their petition would be considered. On March 23 this year, a resolution was passed in the assembly, allotting Rs 70 lakh for a PHC in Idigarai town panchayat. While the panchayat had already given its consent to set up a PHC on a natham poromboke land at neighbouring Krishnapuram, it was decided that the health sub-centre at Idigarai would be upgraded to a PHC and be used till the new PHC at   came up.
 
 Activists from the town said while Rs 14 lakh was budgeted for the renovation. T  , 58, a former vice-chairman of the town panchayat and a social worker, said he had effectively completed the renovation by spending Rs 2 lakh from his pocket. He said he had worked along with C  , 73, a farmer-activist from the region. 
 
 “The PHC was scheduled to be inaugurated by the ministers on March 31, but Sathish Kumar had used the influence he has with a local legislator and through the executive officer of the panchayat J Felix, had cancelled the inauguration,” said Parthasarathy. “He had done it as he didn’t like us gaining prominence in the area,” said Parthasarathy.
 
 In a petition to the chief minister on Monday, Duraisamy said on March 28, health officials from Chennai had visited the facility and had given their nod to inaugurate it on March 31. “But Sathish Kumar had influenced Felix and had stopped local health officials from visiting the facility on March 30, a day before the inauguration,” he said in the petition. He sought an inquiry against Sathish Kumar.
 
 When contacted, Felix denied the allegations. “I am a panchayat official. How can I ask health department officials to cancel the inauguration,” Felix said.
 
 Sathish Kumar, however, said the inauguration was cancelled as the construction work in the PHC was not complete. “The PHC needs proper flooring, a toilet for doctors and staff members and also a proper gate. Without these how could we bring ministers to inaugurate the facility?” asked Kumar. He denied the allegations made by Duraisamy and Parthasarathy. 
 
 When contacted, a health department official too said the PHC needs proper flooring and a toilet for doctors and staff members. “The work would be completed in another 10 days after which we would have the minister inaugurate it,” the official added. 
 
 
