CHENNAI: The state’s flood management proposal for south Chennai on the   has got the Centre’s nod, which is now awaiting the approval of the   (KFW) in order to begin the tendering process.

 The work on the construction of integrated storm water drains (ISWD) on the basin would be carried out in three packages – M1, M2 and M3. The Centre has given its approval for the M3 and sent it to KFW for their approval. The overall cost of the project is Rs 1243.15 crore and is spread over a length of 360km.
 
 Meanwhile, the   project for North Chennai will be a 429km-long network of ISWD that is awaiting a funding of Rs 1729 crore. The ISWD network is expected to help reduce flooding of areas, in the case of heavy rains and disasters like the 2015 floods.
 
 “The plan document for the M3 package – for construction of drain along the ECR areas was approved by the consultant appointed by the KFW. Following the approval of the plan document, the Centre has also given its approval, and is, in turn, waiting for KFW, which is the funding agency for the project, for their approval,” an official in the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) said.
 
 Sources said once approval from the funding agency is obtained, tenders will be passed by GCC for the construction work. Consultants have been appointed for validating the detailed project report (DPR) on the other two packages that will involve the construction of drains in Pallikaranai marshland region. Once the DPR is validated, approval of KFW will be sought.
 
 The   basin project, that was supposed to have taken off years back got delayed due to the re-study carried out on the impact assessment report of the M1 and M2 packages that was prepared over seven years back. The Pallikaranai marshland is an ecologically sensitive area that has seen a lot of transformation around it with the IT boom over the years.
 
 The project proposal for the Kosasthalaiyar Basin project still awaits the approval from the Centre, an official added. The project that was initially supposed to be funded by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) met stonewall when the body retracted from funding the project.
 
 Recently, in 2018, the state government approached the NITI Aayog for funding and began the project.
 
 The other two projects of the corporation in the ISWD project which includes the 326-km long storm water drain network on the   and Cooum Basins that is nearing completion.
 
 
