WASHINGTON: US President   has put   in the crosshairs in his first missive of 2018, accusing the country of “lies and deceit” despite receiving billions of dollars in American aid.

 
 “The United States has foolishly given Pakistan more than 33 billion dollars in aid over the last 15 years, and they have given us nothing but lies & deceit, thinking of our leaders as fools. They give safe haven to the terrorists we hunt in Afghanistan, with little help. No more!” Trump tweeted early morning on New Year’s Day.
 
  
  
 
 It is not clear why Pakistan was on top of Trump’s mind first thing in the new year, but his warning came days after his administration leaked the news that it was planning to withhold $255 million in US aid till Islamabad demonstrated that it was serious about cracking down on terrorism that it openly sponsors, and for which it has been censured by the United Nations and the international community.
 
 
  
 
 Pakistan’s latest terrorism gambit has been its effort to mainstream the UN and US-designated terrorist   so that he and his party can contest elections. 
 
 Pakistan evidently believes that a 
  and remove the stigma of terrorism from its favorite terrorist son, but the Trump administration has warned against such move, pointing out that he is an UN-designated terrorist with a bounty on him.
 
 US officials dealing with the region are expected to meet in the next few days to finalize punitive steps against a country that is unrelenting in its support for and use of terrorism in the region.
 
 Despite increasing pressure from the Trump administration, 
  , believing its patrons such as China and Saudi Arabia -- to whose capitals its politicians and generals keep running to help and advice – will save it from American wrath.
 
 “We will respond to President Trump's tweet shortly inshallah...Will let the world know the truth…difference between facts & fiction…” Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Khwaja Asif tweeted minutes after Trump’s message ignited a fervid discussion in the foreign policy twitterverse dealing with the region.
 
  
  
 
 Pakistani military and foreign policy elites continued to ply the familiar arguments about the country being a frontline ally that has sacrificed much in the war on terror, a pitch that has no credibility with the Trump administration.
 
 “Pakistan has done more to defeat terrorism than anyone, instead of shifting blame on us, #DonaldTrump must revisit his policy for Afghanistan. We have done what we could for the World now the World must do more to defeat the menace of terrorism rather gragging us into blame game!” tweeted retd Lt.Gen Amjad Shoaib, one of the country’s pro-military talking heads who frequently wheels out the establishment line.
 
 Pakistan wasn’t the only country in Trump’s sight on New Year’s Day; half an hour after the Pakistan tweet, 
  . “Iran is failing at every level despite the terrible deal made with them by the Obama Administration. The great Iranian people have been repressed for many years. They are hungry for food & for freedom. Along with human rights, the wealth of Iran is being looted. TIME FOR CHANGE!” he tweeted.
 
  
  
 
 Experts reckon that Washington cannot antagonize both Pakistan and Iran at the same time, needing the seaports from one of them to access landlocked Afghanistan. Although there is a northern land route to keep the supply lines open, it is said to expensive and cumbersome. But at least in the case of Iran, Trump expressed admiration for its people.
 
 
