In the latest episode of  ,   and   continue their fight. Shruti starts feeling bad for the couple and says she will leave the house the moment her health gets better.

 Ranajay’s family members allege that she is stopping him from shouldering responsibilities towards his wife and child. They also suggest that Shruti should go back to her husband. But Ranajay objects and says that he is an adult. He is responsible for his own decisions.
 
  asks who will take care of Shruti since she is unwell. Ranajay informs his family members that he will appoint a person especially for Shruti.
 
 But Ranajay’s father is against the idea of appointing a new person for ailing Shruti. Ranajay’s mother informs that she will prepare food for her. But she won’t do anything else.
 
 Iman says that Shruti shouldn’t worry since Ranajay will take a separate place for her. Iman again gets into an argument with her.
 
 Shruti tries to explain the situation but Iman doesn’t want to listen. She tells her that Ranajay has changed a lot and Shruti is responsible for that.
 
 Iman is sleeping in their bedroom. Ranajay wants to enter into the room. He says that he needs to take a few things but Iman doesn’t allow him. Ranajay bangs the door repeatedly.
 
 Upset Iman informs him that she will leave the home very soon. She requests to stop banging the door as the child will get scared. Ranajay warns that he will break the door if she doesn’t open it.
 
  and Rupkotha come into the place and start blaming Ranajay for this ruckus. Rupkotha suggests that Ranajay should have spent the night at Shruti’s room. Ranajay becomes furious. He says that he had no other option other than taking care of a person who is unwell. Rupkotha again starts criticising him.
 
 Badshah requests Iman to open the door. She doesn’t want to listen.
 
 Finally Iman opens the door and lets Ranajay enter into the room. But she doesn’t allow him to touch the child. The couple again starts fighting. Iman asks him to divorce her and get married to Shruti.
 
 Shruti starts feeling unwell. Ranajay suggests that she should drink hot beverage. He goes to the kitchen and starts boiling milk. Iman enters the kitchen too as she wants to boil milk for her child. She asks Ranajay to leave the oven so that she can boil milk for baby.
 
 Ranajay requests to give him some more time. But Iman is determined to finish her job first. She throws away the pot of milk.
 
 Seeing Iman’s angry ‘avatar’, Ranajay criticises her for this act. But Iman is not ready to listen. Shruti requests Ranajay to leave the topic.
 
 Iman again starts blaming Shruti for everything. She says that Shruti is a shameless person.
 
 Ranajay intends to go out to buy milk. Shruti stops her saying that he won’t be able to find any shop in the middle of the night. Iman says that being an IPS officer Ranajay can at least arrange a bottle of milk for her.
 
 Iman says that Shruti has willingly left her husband so that she can stay with Ranajay. Iman also alleges that she has no respect for any relationship. Shruti says that Iman is no exception. What she is doing now will also tear apart the couple.
 
 Shruti becomes furious and suggests that Ranajay should get married to Shruti very soon. This way they will be happy. There is no meaning of dragging their relationship ahead.
 
