BENGALURU:   champions   would look to mount a strong comeback and stay in the reckoning to advance to the inter-zone playoff semifinals as they take on bottomplaced   in an   Group E match here on Wednesday night.

 
 
 After losing 0-2 to   in Maldives last week that almost wrecked their chance to top the group and qualify for semifinals, Albert Roca’s Blues look a wounded side and would be keen to bounce back with a big win against Aizawl, who are already eliminated after three defeats and a draw.
 
 With head-to-head the first rule to break a deadlock, Radiant are sitting pretty at the top of the table as BFC only managed a 1-0 win — thanks to Nishu Kumar — against the Maldivians here on April 10. BFC must win both their remaining matches and hope Radiant slip up in their fixtures.
 
 A livid skipper Sunil Chhetri called the defeat in Male one of the worst BFC performances of the season. “As a team, we didn’t turn up and give a good performance. It was the worst performance in our whole season. We couldn’t come out with a single positive except for the show of goalkeeper Mawia (Lalthuammawia). There was no unity and we were not cohesive in attack. We have to show a reaction and that’s what we are going to do tomorrow. We will play as if it’s the final,” Chhetri said.
 
 “In a lot of games, couple of players did well and the rest sailed down. Individuals have been bailing the team in some games. It’s sad for all the things we did well, this one performance let us down,” the BFC skipper added.
 
 Coach Roca said his side now have to go all out to stay in the race. “As a team, we never give up. Now we see it as one more challenge — to win the last two games. Tomorrow, we are facing Aizawl and we have to go all out,” the Spaniard said.
 
 Meanwhile, the Highlanders have nothing to lose and would look to punish BFC at each and every opportunity during the 90 minutes. “It is difficult to beat BFC in Bengaluru. But we will definitely do well and it will be an entertaining match,” Aizawl coach Santosh Kashyap said.
 
 
