Vijayawada: The capital city, which is a crucial rail and road junction between northern and southern parts of India, has turned into a transit hub for all sorts of illegal activities. From   (marijuana or cannabis) smuggling to human trafficking, and from   to gold smuggling,   is witnessing a surge in organised illegal activities. 

 Human trafficking has thrived in Vijayawada locally, which has also become a transit hub for various organised networks. With the city fast developing into a metropolis, organised gangs are coming up with innovative methods in ganja peddling and flesh trade.
 
 Though the police claim that they have cracked down on prostitution gangs in the city, high-profile rackets are still running.
 
 Activists working for rehabilitation of trafficked victims found fault blame the government for not taking up human trafficking as a priority issue. 
 
 NVS Rammohan of HELP organisation, said there are many loopholes in administration department, as well as police department’s functioning while addressing human trafficking.
 
 He said a committee, headed by chief secretary, principal secretary of women and child welfare as convener, director general of police (DGP), top officials and social workers on human trafficking was constituted. This anti-human trafficking committee was supposed to meet once every six months, but it has not met even once in the past four years.
 
 Rammohan said that two types of prostitution rackets are running in Vijayawada city. Women and girls from areas such as Payakapuram and colonies located in hilly areas, and canal bunds where most migrants live, are lured and forced into prostitution. These rackets run in an organised manner in One Town area. 
 
 Another type of   that is running silently in the city is high-profile prostitution, which has gained much demand . There are agents in Vijayawada who acts as suppliers to government officials, tourists, and business executives who have demand for flesh trade.
 
 The flesh trade is also thriving in Tadepalli and Mangalagiri areas of Guntur district in the capital region. Both the towns have become happening places in the capital region in terms of real estate and construction sectors. 
 
 The rising tourist footfall in the capital region has resulting in increased demand for flesh trade, and those running the rackets are minting money.
 
 The police department had constituted anti-human trafficking units (AHTUs) in Eluru, Vijayawada, Guntur, Visakhapatnam, and Anantapur way back in 2007. However, all the units are now defunct without staff allocations. The District Crime Records Bureau chiefs were considered to be the heads of AHTUs on paper. However, these units have no physical existence in the state as staff has not allocated for them.
 
 The human trafficking networks that have been identified and operating across the country in areas such as Yavatmal, Chennai and Bangalore, Gulf and Southeast Asia, Mumbai and Bhivandi (Thane), Goa, Kolkata, Delhi, Chandrapur and Nalgonda networks, are either using Vijayawada as a transit hub or sourcing victims from the city.
 
 Another smuggling activity that has been running through the city is ganja transportation. Though cops have been successful in intercepting ganja transporters to some extent, it is only 10% of the quantum of transportation that is taking place, said a senior officer in Vijayawada on the condition of anonymity. 
 
 As ganja is mainly sourced from Visakhapatnam and East Godavari agency areas, the police have developed informant network over the movements of the smugglers in these areas.
 
 The city police also claim that they are facing problems in acquiring information regarding drugs and human trafficking as Vijayawada is neither source nor destination, but only a transit point. Even narcotic drugs and psychotropic substance trafficking is being done through Vijayawada. 
 
 The trade runs from Kolkata to cities such as Bangalore, Chennai and Hyderabad. “It is very difficult for us to intercept gangsters in transit,” said the official.
 
 The Union government has recently taken a decision to recognise National Investigation Agency (NIA) as the nodal agency to deal with human trafficking. 
 
 The Union cabinet has approved a resolution and detailed guidelines are yet to be finalised in this regard. Social activists hope that unlike the current special wing of Central Bureau of Investigation, which is almost defunct, the NIA comes up with constructive framework to curb human trafficking.
 
 
