Ghaziabad: A dedicated drop-in corridor for commuters was suggested in front of the proposed metro station in Mohan Nagar in an inter-departmental meeting of various agencies in   on Monday. The meeting was held to study the detailed project report (DPR) of the proposed metro corridors in   and  , which was submitted by the DMRC on February 1.

 The DPR was cleared without any objections by all district-level government agencies. The total estimated cost of the project has been pegged by DMRC at Rs 3,711 crore.
 
 A point of contention for infrastructure agencies was the alignment of the elevated road at Kanawani Bridge where it will meet the proposed metro corridor from Sector 62 (Electronics City) to Sahibabad through Indirapuram.
 
 GDA chief engineer   told TOI, “According to DMRC’s DPR, the metro corridor from Sector 63 to Sahibabad will cross above the   at Kanawani Bridge in Indirapuram. None of the government agencies suggested any changes to the project report nor raised any objections to it. A point that was thoroughly discussed was parking problems at the Mohan Nagar metro station, which is set to be the busiest on account of the fact that it will be a major interchange for commuters. On the basis of a suggestion by the traffic department, a dedicated drop-in corridor for commuters has been suggested on the road in front of Mohan Nagar station. However, this corridor has been proposed on the road and has nothing to do with the project as such.”
 
 He further said, “There were no issues with the RRTS either as their tracks are proposed to run parallel to the metro corridor and their stations are also located at other points. The report will sent to the state government for approval in the next couple of days.”
 
 Mohan Nagar will be the busiest interchange station as Dilshad Garden-New Bus Stand corridor and the proposed Vaishali-Mohan Nagar corridor are set to merge at this point. The meeting was attended by officials from departments including public works, the municipal corporation and forests. Officials of UP Housing Board, however, skipped the meet owing to preoccupations.
 
 Two new metro corridors have been proposed in the DMRC project report which plans to further extend the Blue Line into Ghaziabad. A 5.06-km corridor through Vasundhara and Sahibabad will connect Vaishali metro station with Mohan Nagar. Another 5.11-km corridor through Indirapuram and Vasundhara will join Noida’s City Center-Sector 62 with Sahibabad.
 
 
