If   produces sports champions in the near future, it will likely bedespite a lackof effort by the state rather than due to any effort by it.

 Data shows that only 40 of 9,000 government-run middle schools in the state are permitted to hire sports teachers. Just 0.44% of all middle schools, in other words, can offer students professional sports guidance — if they appoint physical education teachers.
 
 
  
 
 The authorities, experts say, may have lost sight of the ideal of education — to produce all-round, well-developed students — with sports as an integral part of the curriculum: The education  , instead of addressing the issue, plans to scrap the post in 1,500 more schools.
 
 Also, district physical instructor (DPI) posts across all districts have been lying vacant for more than five years and physical directors on seniority basis are forced to take up additional work.
 
  has started collecting data on student and physical education teacher (PET) numbers in each schools in the districts. It will “consider as surplus” teachers who have been instructing less than 250 students, and redeploy them to other schools.
 
 Department officials said the process is still in initial stages and they are yet to take a decision on the issue but did not rule out the option of redeployment.
 
 According to a government order from three decades ago, a government-aided middle and high school with 250 students will have a physical education teacher and the state could create a new PET postfor every additional batch of 300 students. The GO said higher secondary schools could have a physical director (PD) only if thestrengthis400 or more and primary schools would not have teachers for physical education.
 
 The order that was originally designed for government-aided schools has been followed in government schools as well, said sources in the school education department.
 
 For 9,000 government middle schools in the state, there are only 40 PET allotted posts and for 7,500 government high and higher secondary schools, there are only 5,576 posts, including 660 PD posts, according to the sources. Not all schools that have posts have teachers, the sources said; there are more than 1,200 vacant posts across the state.
 
 The department has appointed around 5,000 parttime teachers in schools, but the last appointment was made in 2012, leaving many posts vacant.
 
 Thousands of schools already function without fulltime PET teachers and this move of the government would further increase the number of schools without sports teachers, said   of the Tamil Nadu Physical Education Teachers Physical Directors Association (TNPETPDA).
 
 “Only a meagre percentage of students from schools with no PET could be found at the sport meets and that too because of their personal interest,” Raja said, adding that without a PET teacher sports talent could not be identified in younger children.
 
 Condemning the move, well-known educationist Prince Gajendra Babu said if some children are provided an opportunity that others are denied, it would violate Article 14 of the Indian Constitution, which guarantees the fundamental rights of citizens.
 
 Meanwhile, according to the sources, the department has identified about 322 recently upgraded schools whose strength is about 250 and do not have a single PET where the surplus teachers are most likely to be posted.
 
 It’s not just students who have been affected by the state’s disregard for sports in education. Teachers have been hit too.
 
 N Hari, 32, a part-time teacher from Ambattur, handles physical education classes for students in a local government-funded school. He earns ₹7,000 per month. The former national-level athlete is caught up between earning more by doing odd jobs in order to improve his livelihood and training his students.
 
 He is one of thousands of teachers who protested at Valluvar Kottam last year for permanent jobs. Despite promises from school education minister K A Sengottaiyan, nothing materialised.
 
 The state has not made 16,000 part-time teachers permanent and has failed to appoint permanent physical education teachers (PETs) to fill vacancies created due to retirement of teachers. With most schools lacking full-time PETs, studentshave todepend on private training.
 
 The few studentsunder the wing of the   are lucky; the others have to either fork out large sums of money or kiss all sporting aspirations goodbye.
 
 
