NAGPUR:   schools across the country are heaving a sigh of relief as the central board has clarified that there is no need for sports teachers to teach the new Health and Physical Education (HPE) subject in Std IX-XII. 

  
  
 Approximately 200 hours of learning in HPE is a mandatory requirement for every student to be eligible to appear for board exams. 
 
 The reason schools are happy with the board’s decision is because hiring sports teachers and that too on graduate teacher pay scale would have added to the expenditure list. A senior academician, said, “In majority of schools the sports teachers are not there for higher classes, hence they are not of the graduate pay level. Since HPE is mandatory right from Std IX-XII, schools would have been required to hire teachers separately for the higher level.” 
 
 A school principal told TOI that not all schools in Nagpur give importance to physical education, a problem which could have been compounded with HPE. “Just to show on record they keep a sports teacher who takes care of the basic activities without implementing it in the right spirit. Now if HPE had to be administered under a sports teacher only, then it would have created a lot of staffing problems for schools,” she added. 
 
 HPE will be a completely practical subject with all classes being taken on field or involving an activity. CBSE has released details of the subject in a 104-page manual which lists out the various activities that need to be undertaken and how to grade students. CBSE also said that Std IX-X subjects   will now be subsumed in the new HPE. Whereas for Std XI-XII, erstwhile subjects of Work Experience, and Physical and   have now become defunct and included in the new HPE. 
 
 There will be no separate grading for the above mentioned co-scholastic areas from session 2018-19 onwards. Schools have been advised to use the periods allotted for the above mentioned subjects for the new HPE. The entire HPE will be implemented, evaluated and recorded by schoolteachers, leaving no scope for involvement of external examiners. For record keeping of HPE, CBSE will be issuing a ‘Health and Activity Card’ whose format will be released to schools in the near future.
 
 Social Empowerment through Work Education and Action (SEWA) is another aspect of the HPE evaluation. SEWA aims to develop a whole person in their intellectual, personal, social, emotional and social growth. Learners engaged in this program are expected to be lifelong learners and through experiential learning develop as active citizens and caring and compassionate humans. The experiential and constructive modes of learning emphasize the immediate personal experience of the learner and view learning as a process. 
 
 
