MUMBAI: The arrested owners of two Lower Parel resto-bars—1Above and Mojo’s Bistro—that caught fire last month have reportedly confessed to having greased the palms of civic officials every time they were issued notices for illegalities. The fire that took place inside   Mills compound on December 29, 2017, killed 14 persons.

 A source said that the arrested owners have named officials from the G south ward office. “The accused have given us the names of three-four officials whom they paid huge sums of money. We are verifying their claims,” said an official, requesting anonymity. 
 
 The police said that they have recorded statements of more than a dozen civic officials to ascertain if anyone had turned a blind eye to the illegalities at Kamala Mills. It has come to the light that civic officials had served 10-12 notices to these two resto-bars and yet, the establishments functioned with impunity, said the police.
 
 “If we come across evidence against the officials who have been named, we will not hesitate to book them under section 304 of the IPC (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) like we have done in the case of the resto-bar owners,” added the official.
 
 A senior civic official said, “It (bribery allegation) cannot be denied. But it’s a matter of investigation and the police need evidences to support the allegation. There was a similar allegation, following which five civic officials were suspended after the fire. The civic chief too, in his report submitted to the state, has suggested inquiry against 10 more officials, indicating such a possibility.”
 
 A fire officer, Rajendra Patil, was arrested last week for giving   an NOC a week before the inferno .
 
 Earlier, the police had said they had come across some civic officials who sat on several violation complaints against the two resto-bars. 
 
 Officials from the N M Joshi Marg police said several cases were lodged against management of the two resto-bars in the past too. An officer said the owners were earlier booked for violations like operating beyond the stipulated hours, loud music and for serving hookah in the eating area. Before the fire, Mojo’s was booked thrice—for operating beyond the permissible limit of 12.30am, for serving hookah in the eating area and for playing loud music. 1Above was booked nine times—thrice under COTPA, five times for playing loud music and once for serving hookah.
 
 
