  : Four people died in two landslides triggered by pre-monsoon showers in   on Friday. 

 Saniram Debbarma (35), his wife Amritbala Debbarma and their three-year-old son Abhi Debbarma died when the landslide hit their house in Thambukbari village of Mohanpur. However, the couple's eight-year-old son escaped with injuries and is undergoing treatment now. Another 55-year-old tribal man, Malindra Debbarma, also died when the mud wall of his house collapsed.
 
 Chief minister Biplab Deb has announced a monetary compensation of Rs 5 lakh to be paid to the victims' families. 
 
 With incessant rainfall leading to flash floods, the administration has opened several relief camps in West Tripura, Khowai and   districts. Biplab has sent education minister Ratan Lal Nath and tribal welfare minister Mevar Kr Jamatia to the villages of Mohanpur to oversee the relief operation.   and IPFT legislators have been asked to visit their respective constituencies and coordinate with the local administration for helping victims affected by the landslides and flood. Union home minister Rajnath Singh has also spoken to the chief minister and assured to extend all possible support.
 
 According to reports,   has received 499.5mm of rainfall in May so far. 691.7mm of rainfall during the pre-monsoon season has been recorded this year, which is double the normal quantity. This has triggered flash foods across other towns of the state as well. The heavy shower has damaged 500 huts and rendered about 9000 people homeless in West Tripura and Khowai districts The administration has opened 25 relief camps.
 
 The Met department said Agartala has received more than 242mm of rainfall in the last 24 hours, which has left two-thirds of the city inundated. Normal functioning of most of the offices, including the Indira Gandhi Memorial (IGM) Hospital and the East Agartala police station, has been severely affected.
 
 Biplab spent almost three hours with the officials in the inundated areas of Agartala on Friday, supervising the rescue and relief operation being carried out by the volunteers of the disaster management authority. He interacted with the affected families and apologised for the inconvenience, saying he needed more time to develop the drainage system in the city. All temporary arrangements have been made to reduce the suffering of the people, he added.
 
 The chief minister has sanctioned additional funds amounting to Rs 7 crore for cleaning up the drains of the city. He has also directed the   to make urgent arrangements to pump out water from the low-lying areas.
 
 "My government has been working hard to improve the situation but upgrading the sewerage system of the city cannot be done in a matter of months. My target is to improve the situation of Agartala before the monsoon next year. People are suffering due to the inaction of the previous government. I can only apologise to the people and share their sufferings at present," Biplab told media.
 
 He added that the families of eight people, who died in thunderstorms in the state earlier this year, have been paid compensations to the tune of Rs 5 lakh. Assistance to the injured and affected persons were also disbursed within three days of the announcement, Biplab said.
 
 
