Mangaluru: Harikrishna Bantwal, a former confidant of Congress leader B Janardhan Poojary who recently joined the BJP, has invited district minister B Ramanath Rai to make ‘aane pramana’ (speak truth) in front the deity at Dharmasthala temple. Bantwal reiterated that Rai had used filthy language against Poojary at a wedding in Surathkal in February 2017.  The BJP leader also dared Rai to deny the allegations at the Dharmasthala temple. It may be recalled that video footages of Poojary in tears at a Billava convention in Bantwal and later at Shree Brahma Baidarkala Garodi Kshethra in Kankanady are doing the rounds on social media. Poojary broke down at the convention in Bantwal, a few days ago when BJP leader Harikrishna Bantwal repeated the diatribe that was allegedly used by Rai against the veteran in front of a large audience of the Billava community. Later, Poojary made the same allegation against Rai and broke down in front of a large gathering at Garodi, a prominent shrine of the Billava community. On Monday, Harikrishna Bantwal challenged Rai to come and speak the truth in front of Sri Manjunatha at Dharmasthala. “Ramanath Rai has used diatribe against Poojary in the presence of former district Youth Congress president Arun Coelho. Coelho has disclosed this to many visual media too. I am ready to present these facts in front of Dharmastala temple at any time that the minister finds it convenient,” Bantwal said. To a query on whether the allegations against the minister is a part of a larger conspiracy to divide Billava votes in the district, the BJP leader replied in the negative. Meanwhile, Rai, who has denied the allegations, said Harikrishna Bantwal had no moral rights to invite him to Dharmastala. “Efforts are being made to malign my political image. Who is Harikrishna Bantwal to invite me to Dharmasthala for ‘aane pramana’? I will have to go only if Janardhan Poojary or his family members invite me. I have never made derogatory remarks against Poojary,” he said. In fact, the minister was also seen shedding tears over the imbroglio at a party programme in Bantwal on Sunday. TOI’s efforts to contact Arun Coelho went in vain as his mobile phone was switched off.