PUNE: The crime branch on Friday claimed to have solved the   of a plumbing contractor in September last year for Rs 20 lakh ransom with the arrest of six suspects since Tuesday.

 The kidnappers had kept the victim hostage for three days in a house at Donje village and released him only after getting Rs 11.5 lakh of the ransom from his relatives. They called the victim on November 14, 2017 and December 8, 2017 for the remaining ransom money, police said. The kidnappers’ luck ran out when investigators received a tip-off about two suspects and nabbed them on February 6.
 
 “The duo revealed the names of the other four suspects, already lodged in Yerawada jail for some other crimes. We secured their possession today (Friday) after obtaining a local court’s permission,” said the crime branch’s senior police inspector, Sitaram More.
 
 All the suspects are criminals on police record, the police said. The mastermind of the crime had once worked with the plumbing contractor and knew the victim’s financial status, routine and places of work.
 
 The victim, Mohammad Hussain Ansari, was on his home to Kondhwa in his car around 7.15pm on September 8, 2017 when an SUV bumped into his four-wheeler from the rear in front of Hotel Orchid along the   bypass. Five men got down and started assaulting Ansari. He lost consciousness owing to a head injury.
 
 When Ansari regained consciousness, he found himself tied up, blind-folded and locked in a house. The five men told him that he would be released only after they got a ransom of Rs 20 lakh, the police said. Over the next three days, they forced Ansari to call his relatives for the ransom amount. They set him free after getting Rs 11.5 lakh, the police said.
 
 The crime branch was on the trail of these suspects from then as a part of their probe into the crime. In between, the suspects called Ansari twice for the remainder of the ransom amount, the police said.
 
 During the course of investigations, the crime branch received a tip-off about the two suspects — Mukesh Maruti Raut (33) and Nilesh Kishor Kokre (20).
 
 They were arrested on February 6 from Chinchwad.
 
 After grilling, the duo revealed the names of their partners in crime —   (25), the mastermind, Raju Vilas Gaikwad (35), Ashok alias   (28) and  , whose house at Donje was used to hold the victim hostage.
 
 Senior inspector More said, “We are yet to make recoveries, including cash, from the suspects they had taken as ransom before releasing Ansari. We will work on these during the custodial interrogation of the suspects.”
 
 An offence of kidnapping, extortion and other charges have been registered against the suspects.
 
