KOCHI: State government is mooting a   Cancer Care Grid to step up the fight against   and ensure effective treatment options. Under this novel concept all citizens in the state will have equitable access to affordable cancer detection and treatment services within a 50km radius from their home. 

 
 This project envisages a health facility network that will offer a set of defined services with both public and private hospitals being part of this grid. It will ensure standard treatment at a reduced cost. The network will ensure that appropriate infrastructure and resources are available to provide these set services. Members of the grid are expected to provide reports (of their work) to ensure transparency and accountability.
 
 "Primary level diagnosis will be made available at community health centres ( ). The next level of diagnosis will be provided at taluk and district hospitals. Treatment will be provided at medical colleges and some district hospitals. In areas, where there is no cancer care centre in the government sector, the service of private hospitals will be sought," said health secretary Rajeev  .
 
 Another plan is wholesale procurement of medicines for all hospitals in the gird, directly from manufactures. "Even  's procurement is small in volume. When we procure on a larger scale, the price of cancer medicines, which is normally high, can be reduced significantly. This will be helpful in our case. Then, we can ask pharmaceutical companies to open their service centre in state. Large-scale procurement would be explored once the grid comes in to force," said Sadanandan.
 
 The follow-up treatment will be brought down to district and taluk hospitals if possible. "Then, all patients need not go to the medical college and cancer centres for follow-up treatment. Facilities like chemotherapy will be made available at district hospitals," he said. The health secretary said government will also come up with a common protocol for treatment. "For example, we would have a standard treatment procedure to treat breast cancer. National Cancer Grid has protocol and guidelines for cancer treatment and we will have to just modify and use it," he said, adding that the grid will ensure quality care across the state.
 
 The government will also explore the possibilities of imparting training to doctors and technicians in private hospitals which would be part of the gird. 
 
