MANGALURU: The poll scenario in   just got more interesting with the entry of a seer into the poll fray. But the decision of Sri Lakshmivara Theertha, the present pontiff of  , to contest the ensuing polls from Udupi has thrown up more questions than answers.

 It is not yet certain whether he will contest as an independent or from the BJP. ``I have not approached anybody from BJP for a ticket. In fact they had approached me to contest. Former CM B S Yedyurappa and MP Shobha Karandlaje are persistent that I contest from Udupi,’’ said the Seer talking to TOI.
 
 While, Lakshmivara Theertha regards the present district in charge minister Pramod Madhwaraj, his disciple, a capable leader, the seer intends to contest against him since ``more needs to be done’’. ``I’m through and through a BJP person. I believe that BJP will come to power in the state this time piggy backing on PM Narendra Modi’s popularity. I’m disillusioned with the Udupi BJP here. That’s why I want to contest from BJP and change things here for the betterment of the people,’’ he claimed.
 
 With his entering the poll fray affect Madhwaraj’s prospects? ``It is a hypothetical question,’’ the seer said. He is also aware of the propaganda done allegedly by BJP that his contesting will favour  . ``I like Pramod as a person, not as a Congressman. My statement of seeking BJP ticket may have set cat among the pigeons among the aspirants and that’s why they are spreading canards,’’ he said. Incidentally the Seer had campaigned for Madhwaraj in the 2013 polls. ``I choose the person rather than party,’’ he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Pramod Madhwaraj said that he came to know about Seer’s decision through media. ``I’m his disciple and sure that he will not take any step which will be inimical to my interests,’’ said Madhwaraj. 
 
 Who is Lakshmivara Theertha: The 54 year old Sri Lakshmivara Theertha is the 30th saint after Sri Vamana Theertha in the guru parampare of Shiroor mutt. . He took Sanyasa from Sri Viswottama Theertha of Sri Sode Mutt in 1971. The mutt is located to the east of Sri Krishna Mutt, in front of the Kanaka's shrine. The main branch of this mutt is in Shiroor village.
 
 
