Mumbai: The clue to keeping children healthy lies in three simple habits—washing hands with soap, drinking clean water and using a clean toilet.   (HUL), one of the largest   companies, as part of their  ,   initiative has launched a campaign to promote these three ‘swachh aadats’ or healthy hygiene habits in a country where one-third of its children fall ill repeatedly.

 Studies show almost 50% of all child malnourishment cases are due to lack of safe drinking water, sanitation and hygiene practices, which lead to illnesses and life-threatening diseases like diarrhoea, while repeat episodes of diarrhoea are increasingly connected to chronic malnutrition and stunting. Nearly 38% of India’s children are stunted which is substantially higher than the world average. Stunting is associated with late school enrolment, lower cognition and poorer executive function. 
 
 The campaign film, shot in Ramkulla village in Madhya Pradesh, highlights how repeated illness is a deterrent in a child’s life and trains the spotlight on the heart-breaking story of a group of children that misses out on the simple joys of playing cricket due to recurring sickness. The film ends with a message about the three ‘swachh aadats’ that can give India not only a ‘playing 11’ but a ‘playing billion’.
 
 With the hashtag  , the movement aims at creating awareness and appeal. Actor Kajol, advocacy ambassador of Swachh Aadat, Swachh Bharat who launched the campaign, said: “Health and sanitation has always been a major concern for India, especially for children. As a mother who understands the importance of hygiene, this campaign can help make a difference.”
 
 HUL had launched the Swachh Aadat, Swachh Bharat programme in keeping with the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. At the time of its launch, the key players were focused on building toilets. But that was not enough. Old behaviour and practices needed to change and to bridge that gap, the Swachh Aadat, Swachh Bharat campaign was launched as a water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) behaviour change programme. 
 
 Sanjiv Mehta, CEO and MD of HUL, said: “Given the scale and complexity of water, sanitation and hygiene challenges in India, large companies like HUL have a key role to play in addressing the same. We believe that it is through our Swachh Aadat, Swachh Bharat campaign that HUL can support the government’s Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. More than 90% of households in India use HUL products. This gives us an opportunity and a responsibility to make a difference.” 
 
 The Swachh Aadat, Swachh Bharat programme has two key thrusts—an on-ground behaviour change model and a mass media campaign—for engagement and awareness on improvements in sanitation, hygiene practices and access to clean drinking water.
 
 
