NAGPUR: Faltering on standard operation procedure (SOP) nearly cost two police personnel, which included Gadchiroli district’s Korchi police station in-charge assistant police inspector   (37), their lives on Monday. 

 The incident has left the department shell-shocked as Tawade, a two-time gallantry award winner and also known to be an experienced anti-Naxal campaigner, and his colleague assistant sub-inspector   (45) were saved by a whisker after a pressure bomb went off. The two were trying to remove a Naxal banner put up on the Korchi-Paknabhatti road, around 4 kms from the police station. 
 
 Chawar, who received more injuries than Tawade, was trying to dismantle a banner strung on the branches of a tree with a bamboo stick and is likely to have triggered a low-intensity improvised electronic device (IED) planted as a ‘pull bomb’. Being closer to the bomb, Chaware’s face was riddled with splinter injuries. Tawade had deep gashes on his forehead.
 
 Tawade and Chawar are now recuperating at a private city hospital. It’s still not known why the two experienced cops chose to remove the banners without the support of the bomb detection and disposal squad (BDDS). It is written in the SOP manual as the Naxalites are known experts of crude IEDs.
 
 “Had they not used a bamboo stick, casualty was certain,” said additional superintendent of police (Gadchiroli)  . “We are waiting for the report from the BDDS but we understand that it was a ‘pull mechanism’ bomb,” he added.
 
 Sources said Tawade and Chawar, who were armed with standard weapons, were walking along the road when they came across some banners. It is still not clear if Tawade had received information about the banners or had been on his routine ‘morning walk’.
 
 Police said that Naxal literatures were an appeal to intensify resistance between March 8 and 14 in the district. The guerrillas had appealed that effigies of top politicians be burnt for following the “diktat of the male-dominated society and government following the pattern of Manusmriti-driven patriarchal values”. 
 
 Chawar told TOI that he had picked up some pamphlets and two banners. “While trying to remove the third banner, the bomb went off and I lost consciousness,” he said.
 
 Police said the heavily injured Tawade stopped a motorist and with his help managed to reach the Korchi rural hospital along with Chawar. From there they were shifted to a city hospital.
 
 “Their condition is stable. A team of doctors is treating them,” said Dr  , the managing director of the   where the two are being treated.
 
 
