The ninth programme of Happy Streets, which was conducted at Chithirai Veedhi (South) in Srirangam on Sunday from 6am to 9am, proved to be a classical treat as young talents wooed the crowd with their performances. 

 The Times of India, with support of Trichy Corporation and Trichy City Police, kick-started Happy Streets programme at Thillai Nagar 10th Cross Street (west) on February 25.
 
 Apart from hosting activities, contests and events in which people rejoiced in Happy Streets so far, the ninth programme also provided a platform for young prodigies to showcase their skills.
 
 One such performance, which mesmerized everyone, was an instrumental musical performed by siblings R Harish Narayan and R Harini Ishwarya. The young violinists, whose presentation featured a few Carnatic songs, said that they were elated to have been given an opportunity to exhibit their talents in a programme like Happy Streets. 
 
 "Usually, only experienced musicians perform in music concerts but we are happy that we were able to perform in a unique initiative like this, amidst warm response," said Narayan, who is a Class XII student. 
 
 His sister, Ishwarya, who is studying in Class VIII, said, "I totally loved the programme because it had something different for people of all age groups."
 
 Another music performance featured a 21-year-old college student Preethi Nandhakumar and T M N Yatindrapravanan, who recently gave his Class XII examinations. Preethi said that the exposure, which Happy Streets provided was quite different from conventional music shows. "I was quite surprised that Srirangam got to witness such a unique programme. It not only gave me a platform to perform, but also introduced me to a lot of new activities," she said. 
 
 On the other hand, Yatindrapravanan termed Happy Streets as a perfect programme for summer vacations.
 
 The musical performances were followed by a Bharatanatyam show by a group of girls. The team said that they were excited about the opportunity to perform at the programme. "After giving a performance in Vellore, we returned home only on Sunday morning, but we could muster up the same energy to perform at Happy Streets because we were waiting for this day," the dancers said.
 
 Young skaters from Srirangam Roller Skating Academy, who have been an integral part of Happy Streets journey, gave yet another stunning performance on Sunday.
 
 In one of the activities, a young kid was made to lead a dance performance which featured a few adults and it left audiences in splits.
 
 The Happy Streets initiative will be conducted on every Sunday over the course of next three weeks in Trichy from 6am to 9am.
 
 
