KOLKATA: The illegal parking of inter-state buses is back in   on Dr Sundari Mohan Avenue where arsonists had in January set ablaze two hatchback cars because their parking spots were encroaching on the road space where the buses would be parked. Following the unrest, the cops had cracked down and the buses and the makeshift depots disappeared from the stretch. But on Saturday, they were back.

 On Saturday afternoon when TOI visited Dr Sundari Mohan Avenue, three Patna-bound buses were parked on the carriageway and merchandise from a small commercial vehicle was being shifted to one of the buses. At least six makeshift offices had also come up from which the entire business was being conducted.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 “We were lying low for some time because the police were very strict. But after a couple of weeks everybody forgot about the incident and we resumed our business,” said one of the operators. “More than 20 buses leave here for several cities of   every day,” he added.
 
 The owner of one of the cars that was severely damaged in the January incident spoke to TOIon condition of anonymity. He feared retaliation since he stays in the same locality. “The nuisance has become severe because the entire episode has emboldened the anti-socials. Even after so much unrest they managed to return and restart the bus services. Nobody is going to raise their voice any more because they have seen how these people broke the law and got away with it,” he said.
 
 Turning residential neighbourhoods into parking lots or starting points for buses is not limited to CIT Road only. An upscale township like Lake Town, too, has been facing the menace for some time. Buses on two routes start from   and more than 30 buses stay parked there at any point of time. The Jaya Cinema-bound flank from   has become a depot for buses between Howrah and Lake Town (215 route buses) while the Jessore Road-bound flank has turned into a parking space for buses between Lake Town and Ruby (47B route buses).
 
 “The drivers and conductors relieve themselves behind buses, they spit everywhere and the entire place has tuned into an office for the bus union where drivers and conductors hang about all day. Many outsiders visit the place and skirmishes among them are common,” said aresident of Block A.
 
 The issue worsens at night. “The buses are parked in the lanes and there is a din the whole night,” said another local.
 
 Madan Mohan Burman street near   in central Kolkata is another point where the inter-state bus business operates from. “The place is already congested and these buses add to it. Several tea stalls have mushroomed to cater to the staff and passengers of these buses. The place is gradually getting infested with trouble-makers,” said  , a resident of Madan Mohan Burman Street.
 
