PUNE: The death toll in Saturday night’s car-truck collision at   rose to six, with another victim succumbing to her injuries on Sunday. 

 “All victims were employees of Rhythm resort at   hill station,” Lonavla city police inspector Chandrakant Jadhav told TOI. They were headed for their rented room in a bungalow at Khandala, 4km from the resort, when their car crashed into the truck in front of the Police Training School, police said. 
 
 Reema Bajala (18) of Meera Road in Thane succumbed to injuries on Sunday at a private hospital in Lonavla.
 
 Zoheb Memon (39) of Khatija building, Mahagiri, (Thane-W), Pooja Gaikwad (23) of Bhor, Sabita Roy (26) of Semobag (West Sikkim), Pistala Sangatam (27) of Nagaland and Sobelet Roy (27) of West Sikkim were killed on the spot. Memon was driving the car.
 
  
  
 
 
 The condition of Monica Lal, the sole survivor undergoing treatment in the ICU at a hospital near Somatne Phata, is critical. “Monica sustained serious head injuries and is unconscious. There is a swelling in her head, with a lot of internal bleeding. She is on the ventilator and doctors have kept her under observation for 48 hours,” a medical officer at the hospital said. Monica is a resident of Golibar Maidan in Lonavla. 
 
 Reema and Monica worked at the front desk along with Memon. Zoheb had offered to drop the six women to the bungalow in his car around 9pm after the resort’s night-drop vehicle got delayed, police said. The resort administration had provided accommodation to its women   at Khandala.
 
 Police said the car veered to the right of the road at a sharp turn and collided with the truck. An official at Lonavla primary health centre said all victims died of head injuries. Resort officials refused to speak to TOI. They said the facility owner and administrative staff were based in Mumbai.
 
 A police officer said Memon was experienced in managing hotels and resorts. All the women had done their graduation and the resort had hired them through a Mumbai placement agency.
 
 
