Q. The civic body had cleared drains a week ago at several parts of Aundh. But workers left behind mounds of black stinking mass in the open. This is the waste matter that was extracted from the drains.   has started to smell. When is the   planning to clear this mess up? (MR Das)

 
  
 
 A. The waste extracted from the drainage will be cleared within the next few days, in a phased manner. The waste matter that was pulled out from drains and storm water lines was wet. It has to dry up before it’s cleared. But rest assured, the staff will clear up the debris. (Sandip Kadam, ward officer from Aundh-Baner areas)
 
 
 Q. The municipal corporation has been installing new streetlights as part of the Smart City programme? This is happening at several parts of the city. What happens to the old streetlights? (Neha Astha) A. The PMC has been installing new streetlights across the city as per the new requirements. The installation of LED lights will save power as the lamps are more efficient. The old sodium lights are being replaced by LEDs. (An official from the PMC’s electrical department)
 
 Q. The PMC has not been collecting waste from NIBM Road. There are mounds of waste dumped right in the open. We are always told the operators are being changed or given some excuse by the officials. When will the garbage collection process be streamlined? (Nisha Monteiro) A. Personnel from the relevant ward office will look into this matter. They will also ensure that the   in the area is being collected daily. Citizens affected by this problem can approach the local ward office to register grievances. They can register complaints on the non-collection of waste and inform officials if there are garbage bins overflowing in the area. ( , head of solid waste management department)
 
 Q. I heard from a source that the new apartment buildings coming up in Pune will all be fed water through tankers. Will these homes never be given a water line? Will the tanker business ever stop in the city? I have been staying in   for five years. There’s no sight of a water line. Housing socities in the area are paying lakhs every month for water. Why have we not been given a supply line by the city? (George Mathew)
 
 A. A water pipeline project for the Wagholi area is under consideration. Officials from the Pune Zilla Parishad and the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) are working on the pipeline project. They are also working to secure funding for the supply scheme. The PMC, meanwhile, is providing tankers to supply water to residents only as per requirements. (An official from the PMC’s water supply department)
 
