MUMBAI: Bengaluru-based testing and assessment company  , which is under the government scanner for delay in   results last year, is likely to assess papers for the upcoming March-April exams.

 A state-appointed committee, which is still probing into the exam results’ delay and appointment of MeritTrac, will take around two months to submit its report. Pending inquiry, the university cannot initiate any action against MeritTrac, said a university official.
 
 The inquiry committee, led by state IT department secretary S V R Srinivas, was recently given an extension after the transfer of the earlier secretary. The committee has recently started conducting hearings with university officials and may take up to two months to complete its inquiry.
 
  
 “The technical problems that we faced in last year’s exam were reduced to a great extent in the assessment process for the November exam. As there are no grounds for the university to terminate the contract, we will have to wait for the state’s inquiry report,” said an MU official, adding that it is also too late to float a tender at this stage. “Appointing a new agency now could prove to be counterproductive.” The board of examinations, however, will take the final call.
 
 Several students’ organizations and activists had sought termination of the contract with MeritTrac and the resignation of then vice chancellor Sanjay Deshmukh for last year’s results delay. Over 4,000 papers from the March-April 2017 exam were pending for re-evaluation till January this year—seven months after the exam. While Deshmukh was dismissed for failing in his duties, no action was initiated against the agency, claimed activists.
 
 Education minister Vinod Tawde too had been insisting that MeritTrac’s contract would be terminated after a year, which now seems unlikely.
 
 While the contract was signed for three years, the clauses allow them to extend it for another three years based on the feedback. But the performance of the agency in the November-December exam cannot be assessed yet as the MU is yet to announce the results of major exams. Even as MU officials claimed the results are not ‘delayed’, the 45-day deadline has already passed for several exams, said a principal. “The MU cannot afford to goof up as delays now will impact the April exams. There is very little time left with students for seeking re-valuation,” said the principal.
 
 In a recent review meeting, CM Devendra Fadnavis had reiterated that the online assessment process will not be rolled back. “Appointing a new agency now is not advisable,” said a government official.
 
 
