 Meldon D’Silva came up with a header in added time as   managed to hold   FC, Bengaluru, 1-1 in their Second Division I-League clash at   in  , on Wednesday.
 
  Goa had started well at home but Ozone took control later in the game to surge ahead in the 82nd minute through their Brazilian recruit Robert de Souza. Goa, however, managed to get a 92nd minute equaliser.
  
  The draw helped Ozone move to the top of the table with 19 points from nine matches, the same as   but Ozone’s better head-to-head record gives them the edge with only one match left to be played. Goa, on the other hand, have struggled all through their campaign which had started with a 5-1 demolition of Madhya Bharat FC. Since that victory, Goa have been unable to add full points and are now placed fifth with six points from nine matches. They will play their concluding clash against Madhya Bharat FC on May 13.
  
  Both coaches made a number of changes to their starting XI after their last league match. Goa coach Clifford Miranda made four changes as he introduced keeper Mohammad Nawaz, Lalnunsiama, Saviour Gama and Brian Faria.
  
  Ozone FC coach   made two changes to his starting eleven as he handed starts to Robert de Souza and Lenstan Afonso.
  
  It were FC Goa who came up with some fine attacks early in the match, but Ozone goalkeeper Abhishek Das came to his side’s rescue as he thwarted Liston Colaco in a one-on-one situation and minutes later came up with a full stretched diving save to push the ball to safety from Jason Barbosa’s attempt.
  
  Once Ozone got their act together, they came up with repeated raids on the rival territory. Brazilian Robert de Souza, who was closely marked, managed to have a reverse kick attempt on goal which was saved by Mohammad Nawaz.
  
  In the 44th minute, Vignesh D collecting a pass from Robert latched a stiff grounder which was blocked by Nawaz, who then cleared the ball to safety before Robert could do any damage.
  
  In the second half, after some midfield play, Ozone came close twice to breaking the deadlock.
  
  In the 60th minute, Robert’s header off a curling corner from Vignesh sailed just over the post, while six minutes later, South Korean Yongchan Son’s scorching free-kick at the first post was blocked by the goalkeeper.
  
  Constant attack from Ozone paid dividend in the 82nd minute. Robert collected a through pass from captain   and darted inside the penalty box where he finished with a stiff grounder.
