MUMBAI: Soon,   that upload   will face action as the digital crime unit (DCU) of the Maharashtra   police has decided to crack down on such portals. The police have already issued notices to 100 websites and will lodge FIRs against them if they are found uploading pirated content again.

 The DCU was formed after   and the film industry approached chief minister   in October 2016 to complain about the losses they have to bear due to online piracy. The CM had forwarded the fraternity’s mail to the home department. The DCU has been launched under the directives of additional chief secretary (home) Sudhir Shrivastav. 
 
 “A total of 100 websites are under our scanner. Action has been initiated because film producers and others from the entertainment industry suffer massive losses when their content is not purchased and pirated version of the same is uploaded,” said special inspector general (Maharashtra-cyber) Brijesh Singh.
 
 In July, the DCU started a pilot project and zeroed in on around 9,000 websites where pirated content has been uploaded. “We finally shortlisted 1,300 such websites. Stringent norms are in place against pirated content in the US and the UK, but it is a normal practise in South-East Asian countries. In India, we have anti-piracy laws, but there is no proper machinery to implement them,” he said.
 
 Superintendent of police (cyber) Balsing Rajput said industry stakeholders and officers of the cyber cell are members of the team. “After studying the model of London Metropolitan Police’s ‘PIPCU’ unit, the DCU was formed. It works in three stages. In the first stage, all ecosystem players are being told to desist from supporting illegal activities. Secondly, notices will be issued to companies that are advertising on such websites. The first stage also involves writing to the domain host, the Internet Service Provider (ISP), and the data server from where content is uploaded,” he said.
 
 In the third stage, web servers will be blocked and domain names cancelled. “If content is uploaded again, we will block the webistes and register FIRs.”
 
 
