KOLKATA: Though Kolkata probably did not find a place among the top 10 in Common Law Admission Test ( ) this time (the results are still coming in), there is reason to rejoice. The city candidates have made it to the top 50 at least. Suyash Sharma, of DPS Ruby Park, has secured rank 43 and has probably topped the city. At 128, the next best rank holder is probably  .

 
  
  
 
 Suyash, a Lake Town resident, wants to study in NUJS. With his rank, Suyash can choose any law school in the country and any combination that he prefers. But he does not wish to leave the city for his own reasons. Suyash is has his mind set on becoming a law graduate and not join his father’s ad agency. “I don’t know how my father feels about my decision, but we went together to NUJS today to find out about the admission procedure.
 
 After passing CBSE last year with 93.75%, Suyash studied for a year at a private law university with full scholarship. This helped him prepare automatically for CLAT. “I knew that it is a national competitive exam and to crack it was tough, but I studied hard and finally made it,” Suyash said happily. However, he admitted that without the coaching he received in his tutorial, this would not have been possible.
 
 Ishaan Majumdar, too, slogged hard. Unlike most law school graduates who want to pursue corporate law, Ishaan wants to follow his father’s footsteps and fight cases. “It is far more exciting and challenging in the courtroom. I have always admired my father, Subir Majumdar, who is a lawyer in Meghalaya’s Tura,” Ishaan said. His family hails from Goalpokhor in Assam.
 
 Ishaan relocated to   and took admission in   from where he passed CBSE with 77% marks. “I took a year’s break to get coaching for CLAT,” he said.
 
 The city can also be proud of Venkatesh from Patna, who secured rank 35 in the PG category. He completed LLM from NUJS this year. “I appeared for the test because many PSUs consider the CLAT score for recruitment.”
 
 CLAT, 2018 was conducted by National University of Advanced Legal Studies (NUALS), Kochi. After some examinees alleged technical glitches the Supreme Court on Wednesday directed that the results to be declared on Thursday as per the schedule and had asked the grievance redressal committee (GRC) of NUALS, to submit its report on June 6. Nationally, Aman Garg from Jaipur, Rajasthan topped in the undergraduate category and Aayush Singhal from Jodhpur topped in the postgraduate level.
 
