SURAT: It seems office-bearers of Surat Diamond Association (SDA) and   leaders still fear that   Anamat Andolan Samiti ( ) could create ruckus at a government event in the diamond hub of Varachha. 

 For the first time, SDA will organize felicitation of Surat city police in the presence of chief minister Vijay Rupani and deputy chief minister Nitin Patel in Pal area near Adajan on Thursday. The city police will be felicitated for detecting the sensational Rs 20-crore diamond robbery case. 
 
 It may be recalled that the opposition of BJP events in Patidar-dominated areas started from the felicitation event of Patidar leaders in the presence of BJP president Amit Shah at Abrama in Mota Varachha on September 8, 2016. 
 
 When Amit Shah stood up to address the gathering, he had to face stiff opposition from PAAS workers, wearing Sardar caps and shouting ‘Hardik, Hardik’ and ‘Jai Sardar, Jai Patidar’. Within few minutes, Shah had to wrap up his speech as PAAS workers started hurling chairs and staged aggressive protest at the venue. Shah had to literally move out of the venue under security cover. 
 
 That was the last time any BJP leader addressed a public gathering. In all successive events, be it Gaurav Yatra or inauguration of utility projects by BJP-ruled Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), Patidars have staged serious opposition. 
 
 Party insiders believe it is tough for BJP to invite top leaders including chief minister Vijay Rupani to hold meetings and attend public events in Patidar areas. There is fear among BJP leaders that PAAS workers will go to any extent to spoil the event. 
 
 On being asked why the venue to felicitate city police was kept in Pal and not in Varachha, SDA president Babu Gujarati said, “Most of our diamond manufacturers and brokers are residing in Adajan and Pal areas. Hence, we thought it will be convenient for them to attend the felicitation event there in the presence of CM and deputy CM. This is not a political event, but a function of SDA.”
 
 A senior SDA member said, “Earlier, we had decided to organize the felicitation of city police in Varachha in the presence of CM and deputy CM, but we were told to change the venue due to security reasons.”
 
 
