JAIPUR: A major reshuffle is on the cards for the   cabinet. Sources within the party confirmed that a reshuffle was likely during the ‘auspicious’ time of ‘Navratras’, the nine-day festival which begins on Sunday.

 An unscheduled meeting of the council of ministers at the state party headquarters on Friday sparked off widespread speculations over some ‘major’ changes by Raje.
 
 
 The meeting was called by state BJP president  , state party incharge V Satish and state general secretary (organisation) Chandrashekhar.
 
 Parnami, however, maintained that the meeting was an organizational exercise and that issues like BJP’s performance in the recent bypolls and a road map for the 2018 assembly and 2019 Lok Sabha polls were discussed.
 
 “Cabinet reshuffle is the prerogative of chief minister and it is she who will take a decision on it. The speculations on it are the media’s doing,” claimed Parnami.
 
 
 
 Jaipur: “The discussion revolved around meeting our target of 180 plus (of the 200 seats) in the assembly polls and all the 25 seats in the 2019 LS polls,” Parnami added.
 
 Party sources confirmed that state ministers were asked to “speak their heart out” about the challenges facedby the party and reasons behind thebypolldebacle.
 
 In order to ensure that the ministers spoke freely, Raje had deliberately stayed away from the meeting. It is believed that several ministers spoke against the bureaucracy and its functioning and gave relatedsuggestions.
 
 They were also directed to work towards strengthening the organisation and connecting to the grassroots workers in their constituencies.
 
 Of the30 members, including Raje in the council of ministers, 23 ministers and seniors like Rajendra Rathore, Yunus Khan and   were present, among others.
 
 Several ministers, who were present at the meeting, claimed that there were no discussions on the much-talked about reshuffle.
 
 Grapevine hints at a major reshuffle of portfolios, a few seniors being dropped and chances of a deputy chief minister being named. New inclusions will be decided after working outthecasteequation in thestate.
 
 Reports hint that Gujjar and Jat faces might be includedin theteam.
 
 Three senior leaders, who had presided over the meeting, later met Raje at her residence and briefedher. Rajelater went to  , the state RSS headquarters, and metlocal RSS leaders. Sources claimed that Raje discussed her plans to take out a ‘yatra’ similar to her Suraj Samkalp Yatra ahead of the 2013 assembly pollsin thestate.
 
 The state BJP had faced a major setback in the recent bypolls, in which the party lost two Lok Sabha constituencies and one assembly seat.
 
 
