CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh district court has appointed a local commissioner in a case related to encroachments on the road dividing sectors 34 and 35.The court has also directed advocate   to visit the spot and file a status report by the next date of hearing. 

 The court has also given directions to the Chandigarh municipal commissioner to get a survey done of the area encroached and submit a report to the court. The district court had issued notice to Chandigarh administration and municipal corporation on petition related to nuisances caused to general public.
 
 The particular matter is related to unauthorized and illegal occupants, who have encroached upon government land/footpath in sectors 34 and 35   to the general public, is a cause of traffic hazard, and makes area accident-prone. It is also prayed that these encroachments should be removed as it amounts to a public nuisance. 
 
 The petition was filed by advocate  , who stated in the petition that footpaths in sectors 34 and 35 had been encroached by about 100 illegal occupants along with their families, who have made the busy road as their residence. It was argued that these unauthorised and illegal occupants were causing inconvenience to the petitioner as well as the general public. It was pointed out that women and children start begging on the traffic light points during daytime and children running on the roads cause traffic hazard and in the process there is a possibility of a fatal accident in which only the vehicle owner will be blamed. 
 
 It was also said that while on one hand the Chandigarh administration was busy razing and demolishing illegal and unauthorized colonies like   No. 5 and on the other it was allowing about people to encroach upon government land in the middle of the city.
 
 The Chandigarh municipal corporation had earlier stated in its reply that the areas in which encroachments had been alleged was under Chandigarh administration. It was also stated that "persons sitting alongside the roads are beggars and the authority to remove them lies with Chandigarh police and the   has no role in it". It also had patted its back and stated that the areas which comes under its jurisdiction, regular anti encroachments in road dividing sectors 34 and 35.
 
 
