MUMBAI: Four cops have moved the sessions court against the prosecution’s plea to make them stand trial in the   alleged fake encounter case. Earlier this month, special public prosecutor   had sought that summons be issued to the officers Praful Bhosale (retired), Hemant Desai, Rajaram Vhanmane and  .

 The prosecution had made the plea on February 8 before judge V S Padalkar despite the government’s earlier refusal to grant permission to prosecute the officers. The trial in the case is currently underway against suspended sub-inspector Sachin Vaze and three constables. The court has directed the prosecution to submit its reply.
 
 Yunus, a software engineer, was picked up as a suspect in connection with the 2002 Ghatkopar BEST bus blast. Wanting the four to stand trial, the prosecutor relied on the recent deposition of a key eyewitness—a doctor who teaches forensics in a medical college—who had allegedly seen Yunus being brutally assaulted by the four while in custody and vomiting blood on January 6, 2003.
 
 In their plea, seeking the dismissal of the prosecution’s application, the officers said that in a letter dated October 6, 2010, the state government informed the DGP that sanction to prosecute them in the case had been refused. The cops said that the letter also said that the state had analysed the material and subsequently refused sanction for the accused to be chargesheeted. The cops’ plea further stated that on April 10, 2012, the Bombay high court dismissed Yunus’ mother Asiya’s plea challenging the government’s decision to refuse sanction to prosecute the cops.
 
 Relying on this, the officers said that the prosecution’s plea “is devoid of any merits and substance and as matter of fact, such application (which) tend to interfere with the administration of justice deserves to be dismissed”. They further claimed that what the prosecution seeks is to interfere with the order passed by the highest court of the state which is impermissible in law.
 
 Referring to the sanction, the prosecution had earlier submitted that the go-ahead to take cognisance of an offence by a public servant would be required only if the act was committed during the actual or purported discharge of duty.
 
 
 
