Chennai: Ahead of the state pollution control’s board’s appellate authority hearing its petition challenging non-renewal of factory licence, Sterlite said it was being victimised for being righteous. Sterlite’s copper smelter in Tuticorin is in the middle of public protests who term the unit a polluter.  The state pollution control board too didn’t renew its annual consent to operate (CTO) or factory licence — a mandatory approval to undertake any industrial activity. This lead Sterlite to challenge the pollution control board’s decision in the appellate authority and the next hearing is scheduled for May 17. “We are being victimised for being righteous,” said P Ramnath, CEO of Sterlite Copper. He told TOI that the smear campaign claiming Sterlite a polluter was malicious and devoid of any merit. They are protesting seeking closure of the unit. “These protesters are foreign funded,” he alleged. The plant is under a major maintenance shut down. “Our maintenance shut down is currently on and as per our original plans, it should get over by May 15. We are hopeful of a favourable verdict on May 17 which should enable us to restart operations,” he added. “For us now, resumption of operations is top priority.” He said some of the points raised by the pollution control board were due to be implemented or installed only by September 2019, while it was being held against Sterlite as grounds for rejection of CTO, he said. The PCB also said that the air quality was not monitored by NABL accredited lab. “This was never a condition which has crept in now,” he added. Maintaining that its copper smelter unit in Tuticorin was not a polluter, Sterlite’s offer to open its gates “for people to see for themselves than believe rumours and half-truths.” The activists, however, have turned down the offer. “Over the past two months there has been a social media explosion against us. We recognise that most people who have joined the protests because they want the right action to be taken. Seeing is believing ... they can visit the plant, speak to our employees and ascertain the truth,” he said. By rejecting the CTO, the PCB has taken an easy way to pass the ball to the judiciary. “In the absence of any violations, we have a right to do business here. We seek the state government’s help and also want the protesters to see merit with scientific data rather than believe rumours,” he said.