Greater Noida: An inquiry has found that a woman doctor at   community health centre was drawing salary for two-and-a-half years despite being on   for the entire period.

 The report says Nagma Anjum worked for only 68 days in total since 2014 but was given the salary for three years. On August 19 last year, TOI had reported about an RTI query filed by a social group called Jai Ho, highlighting how Anjum — who had been posted at the health centre in November 2014 — repeatedly remained ‘on leave’ till April 2017 despite being declared ‘absconding’ in 2016. 
 
 The inquiry commitee formed to probe the allegations, headed by the additional director of health (Meerut), found Jai Ho’s charges true. The probe report was submitted to the office of the director-general (medicine and health services) on September 22 last year. 
 
 Jai Ho convener Kapil Sharma had sought the probe report through another RTI query on November 12 last year, from the office of the additional director (health), Meerut, Manju Vaishya Sharma.
 
 “I should have received the RTI reply by December 12 last year, but I got it only this Friday (January 12), a month late,” Sharma said.
 
 The inquiry report, a copy of which is in the possession of TOI, reads that prima facie, the allegation that Anjum received salary sitting at home for three years despite having worked only for 68 days seems to be true. 
 
 The probe committee mentioned that government orders regarding sanction of leaves had been violated, with Anjum being paid the salary in an unauthorised manner by then chief medical officer (CMO) Subhash Gupta and his successor Anurag Bhargava.
 
 “I have arrived at the conclusion that the complaint that Dr Nagma Anjum was given salary for almost three years for sitting at home is true, apart from the 68 days for which she has worked. She was sanctioned salary by the previous and the-then CMO in an unauthorised manner during this period,” reads the report.
 
 While Anjum had been sanctioned a leave of 90 days in an order dated March 5, 2017, and for 89 days on April 3, 2017, these leaves were later cancelled through an order on August 31, 2017. But she had already been paid the salary for that month by then. 
 
 The report further said the CMO did not provide any information on this account, despite repeated letters.
 
 “Despite writing multiple times to the medical superintendent (MS) for related documents, they were not provided to the investigating official by the MS, neither did he appear before him. The officials also wrote to the CMO for providing information from the Dadri  , but the same was not done, neither did the CMO appear before the investigating official. The official took it as non-cooperation in the probe,” the report states. 
 
 “On June 13 last year, the additional director inspected the CHC and Anjum was found present, but her name was not there in the   register. When asked for the details of OPD held by her, her leave applications, etc, a senior assistant at the CHC said the records dated earlier than December 2016 are not available with him. Anjum said she was three months pregnant at the time of her interview in June 2014 and went on maternity leave on November 27, 2014, and again on May 27, 2015 because of her son’s illness. The medical superintendent and his senior assistant appeared before the investigator on June 15 and said they had not received any sanctions of leaves of Dr Nagma Anjum from the CMO office,” reads the report.
 
 “We did not know that she was not entitled for the leaves and so, the leaves were cancelled. She later made up for the leaves that were cancelled and so was paid the salary,” CMO Bhargava said.
 
 Contacted over the phone, Anjum declined to comment and disconnected the call.
 
 
