KOLKATA: Senior officials of   (KMRCL) and   visited the East-West Metro corridor depot at Sector Vto catch their first glimpse of the six new coaches that were to arrive from BEML Ltd before dawn. But by noon, the buzz changed.

 The officials were informed that even though the coaches crossed the toll plaza on second Vivekananda Bridge around 1am, they got caught in traffic soon after. By the time they reached   on Belgharia Expressway, it was too late to go on to Salt Lake, only a few kilometres away.
 
 “We agree that there was a lack of co-ordination. We aren’t used to coaches being moved in this manner. In the Railways, coaches are drawn by locomotives from the factories to their destinations. Even Metro Railway coaches are brought that way from Chennai and other places. These coaches had to be brought by road due to the gauge difference. We weren’t sure of the hassles involved. Now we will be prepared for the others,” a senior KMRCL official said.
 
 Those in the six-trailer convoy complained that they had been hassled at   by   officials and had even been roughed up by the police while trying to negotiate the traffic on the second Vivekananda Bridge. The traffic snarl on the bridge is primarily due to illegally parked trucks and trailers along each flank, which leave just a single lane for others to pass. Authorities allegedly do little to stop either the illegal parking or the reported extortion from the parked vehicles. “What can we do? We can only keep the area around the toll plaza free of congestion. We can’t take responsibility of the whole stretch,” a toll plaza official said.
 
 On Thursday evening, the trailer drivers had parked their vehicles at a garage on NH-6 and inspected the route to take into the city. “Local agents told us that we would reach Salt Lake by 3am if we started around midnight. They even assured us that traffic would be light then. We started accordingly and ended up several kilometres short of the destination by the time it was 6am,” one of them said.
 
