
As per the Act, 25% seats in private schools and 15 % seats in minority schools have been allotted to these students. Students aged between 2.5 years and 4.5 years join schools under entry class seats.
 
 The trend observed in the last five years shows that seats allotted to EWS students have filled with lower vacancy percentage. However, in this session, there were more vacancies than ever.
 
 According to the data procured from the district education office, UT, of the 700 seats under RTE, only 600 have been filled till date. The number of vacant seats for the city students under RTE Act are almost double than last year.
 
 Last year, as many as 642 students out of 699 got enrolled in the 2017-18 session, leaving 57 seats vacant.
 
 In 2016-17 academic session, around 104 seats remained vacant as only 678 out of 782 students got enrolled. Seats filled under RTE Act in 2015-16 session were more as compared to other years. During the session, 129 seats were vacant with a15.9% seat vacancy.
 
 During 2014-15 session, around 136 seats for poor students were vacant in the city. As many as 615 out of 751students were enrolled during this period.
 
 District education officer Anujit Kaur said, "Most of the seats remained vacant because many students did not have their EWS certificates. Parents think that these seats are only for EWS students. They don't know that even SC/ST and disabled students can get admission under the Act."
 
 She stated, "There is need to spread awareness among the parents. Some of the students dropped out of school after getting admission in a more reputed school. This could be another reason for vacancy of entry class seats in the city."
 
 Chandigarh parents' association president   said, "Since no timely action is being taken by the district education office, these seats remain to be vacant. Most of the schools are not giving out the exact information about the number of reserved seats in their schools. Moreover, schools have been demanding water/electricity bills and bank statements from the parents, which many do not possess."
 
 Sudha Prabha Chalana, principal of DAV model senior secondary school , Kurali, said, "Most of the seats were vacant due to incomplete documents provided by the parents. Some of the students had also failed to submit their EWS certificates."
 
 
