"Just work hard”, “be consistent”, “be positive”, “there’s no secret behind this score” – were some of the tips that all-India   Class XII   Meghna Srivastava gave during interviews at her alma mater, Step By Step School in Noida. Exhausted after repeating the same tips several times, Meghna turned to her teachers and asked, “Is it really that big a deal?” 
Meghna scored 99.8% in her Class XII boards with a 100 in History, Geography, Economics and Psychology and a 99 in English Core. The 17-year-old says that she is “really happy to lose that one mark.” Talking about life after the results, Meghna tells us that she’s really enjoying the memes on her on Twitter after the results were declared.
 
  
  Meghna says she is really enjoying the tweets and memes one her
 
 
 
 Meghna says, “I am so happy and grateful that I lost that one mark in my result. I’ve scored 99 in English, and I am so glad that I did. English is a language in which you can’t score 100 marks.” Meghna is aware that scoring 499/500 has made her an online celeb. After the results were declared, several memes on her score started trending on social media, but she isn’t complaining. She says, “I am really enjoying those memes. I loved the tweet which read, ‘It’s the time for the Meghna(s)...’, that was really sweet of them to say. I feel honoured that just because of my marks, someone has put my name next to   and Meghan Markle’s!”
 
  
  
 
 
 Meghna says that when the Economics paper of Class XII was leaked, she was upset because they had to reappear for the exam. But she doesn’t mind it now. “I think board exams are so overrated. Everyone is like ‘Oh! This year you have board exams.’ But it’s not just the boards, this goes on for the whole year, you take so many tests, and when you give your first  , you’re like, ‘What was the big deal? It’s just another exam!’” Meghna adds.
 Talking about how she prepared, Meghna says, “I studied throughout the year and included everything in my schedule, right from social media to books, movies and music. It’s a choice – whether you want to be organised and schedule your studies, or you want to take stress and panic about it. It’s the story you tell yourself.”
 
  
  Meghna at her home in Noida
 
 
 
 Meghna says that marks really do not matter, and that they only pave the way to good colleges. “I understand why students panic so much about the boards.   cut-offs are very high, and to get admission in DU, everyone has to ensure that they get a high percentage. But what next? Do marks even matter after that? I don’t want to go to DU and I have my own reasons for that. Delhi University was never a part of my plan. I wanted to study psychology, and I will be going to the University of British Columbia (UBC), Canada. Even after scoring these marks, my plan has not changed.”
 
