NEW DELHI: The more power you consume, the more you will benefit from the revised tariffs announced by the   ( ) on Wednesday.

 The regulator slashed energy charges across the board by up to 25%, while hiking fixed charges payable to discoms by up to six times. Given the fact that fixed charges are typically a small part of the total bill, the net effect for most consumers will be a saving on their current bills.
 
 The commission claimed that the revised power tariff, effective April 1, will lead to an overall reduction in  . However, many industry experts who analysed the order said the biggest benefits of the new tariffs would be high-end consumers. Experts also fear that the increase in fixed charges and reduction in energy charges could encourage more consumption of power.
 
 Consumers who are eligible for Delhi government’s 50% subsidy in the 0-200 and 201-400 units slabs might actually take a hit. “The subsidy is calculated at 50% of the energy charges, so when energy charges drop, subsidy will also decrease,’’ an official said. 
  
 
 DERC admitted that subsidy beneficiaries might be at a disadvantage with the new tariff structure. “Subsidy is something the government has to decide. They can just tweak the subsidy at an absolute Rs 2/unit instead of 50%,” said DERC officials.
 
 Domestic consumers who fall under the 0-2kW load category, who number about 26 lakh, are likely to be affected the most and some might have to pay more due to a sharp increase in fixed charges. “Many consumers will not see much change in their bills. However, low-end consumers might be unhappy with the increase in fixed charges, while high-end consumers might not be so judicious in electricity consumption as their energy charges have dropped,” said an expert.
 
 Explaining the logic of the new tariffs, DERC officials said that rationalising fixed charges was overdue. Fixed charges are a fixed amount discoms pay to generation and transmission utilities from whom they procure power, whether they source power from the utility or not. The commission justified the increase in fixed charges saying it would be beneficial to consumers in the long run and the reduction in energy charges would keep bills within reasonable limits.
 
 Officials said the restructured tariff schedule would benefit consumers and would also address the financial health of the sector. “The revenue gap at 2016-17 was Rs 9,349 cr and after all adjustments, it has come down to Rs 7,833. As per our new tariff structure, we expect a revenue surplus of Rs 437 crore at the end of this financial year,” said DERC member B P Singh.
 
 Under the new tariffs, fixed charges have been increased for all categories including domestic, commercial, industrial and even for DJB, DIAL and   from the earlier Rs 100-130/kVA to Rs 250/kVa. At the same time, energy charges have been slashed across the board. The 8% surcharge introduced by DERC last year, to be levied over and above the overall power bill continues to stay.
 
 For promoting e-rickshaws and vehicles, the tariff remains unchanged as last year at Rs 8 per unit. A new introduction in the tariff plan is the time of the day tariff for all consumers except domestic ones. The time of the day tariff varies as per peak and off-peak demand. The surcharge levied on energy charge during peak hours would be 20% while there would be a rebate of 20% during off-peak hours. Pension trust funding has been increased from 3.7% to 3.8%.
 
 The applicability of domestic tariff category has been expanded by including ‘paying guests’ at the premsies having domestic connections with a sanctioned load of 5 kW.
 
 The commission also said that high-end consumers were opting out of Delhi with open access and losing these customers was not good for Delhi. “We cannot recover fixed and energy charges from consumers who opt out of sourcing power in Delhi. Railways has gone out and that’s 50MW power we lost. We need to retain these high-end consumers for the good of the city,” said officials.
 
 DERC hoped that incentives like lower energy charges would help retain high-end consumers. Items like street-lighting have now been listed as public utility so they will also be paying fixed charges.
 
 
