HYDERABAD: Eleven people, including four women and two children, died and 20 others suffered injuries after four vehicles were involved in a high-speed crash on the arterial Rajiv Rahadari near Pragnapur, 60km from Hyderabad, on Saturday. Seventeen of the critically injured, including four children, were shifted to   in the city.

 
 
 The accident in Siddipet district occurred when the driver of TSRTC air-conditioned Rajdhani bus from Secunderabad to Mancheryal lost control and rammed into a lorry from the rear. The bus fell on its side and four passengers died in the impact and 20 others injured. The condition of four others is critical. The lorry overshot the road divider and hit an SUV and a container lorry coming from the opposite lane.
 
 The impact of a   caused the latter to jump over the divider and sandwich an   on the opposite lane on the Rajiv Rahadari near Pragnapur. The SUV was reduced to a mangled heap of metal.
 
 
 Seven occupants of the SUV died on the spot. Five of them are family members of a journalist, Lakshman, resident of Jinnaram village of Sangareddy district. They were returning home after a pilgrimage to Vemulawada. Lakshman, 45, also died. The injured were admitted to a regional hospital in Gajwel, and 15 victims were later shifted to Hyderabad. Senior police and revenue officials rushed to the spot and supervised rescue operations. A crane was pressed into service to clear the wreckage. Traffic on the busy Rajiv Rahadari (  state highway) came to a standstill for two hours.
 
 CM K Chandrasekhar Rao expressed shock and instructed officials to provide better medical treatment to the injured. The CM conveyed his condolences to members of bereaved families. Irrigation minister T Harish Rao announced ex gratia of ₹5 lakh each to the kin of the deceased.
 
 Gandhi Hospital superintendent Dr Sravan Kumar told reporters that all doctors and paramedical staff have been instructed to attend to the victims.
 
 The bus driver had tried to overtake the lorry from the left and lost control. This triggered the collision of bus and lorry, which later hit the road divider and jumped into the opposite lane. The SUV, which was coming in the opposite lane, took the maximum impact of the multiple collisions.
 
 
