Though Kangayam, a town in the Kongu belt, is the native place of the Kangeyam Kaalai, a prestigious breed of native bulls, jallikattu is not a native sport to the region. The 450-odd bulls and 350 tamers who took part in the event on Sunday had travelled all the way from Madurai and southern districts to Coimbatore to offer Coimbatoreans the spectacle of jallikattu.

 Holding jallikattu in untraditional places has sparked off a debate whether the cultural values associated with the event will be overtaken by entertainment values.
 
 President of   Jallikattu Federation P Rajasekaran was of the opinion that those who had come to witness the event had come because of their love for their cultural roots. "After the pro-jallikkattu protest, people have become aware of their cultural roots. Even people from metropolitan cities like Chennai had come to witness the event. It was because they have become aware of their cultural roots," he said.
 
 The jallikkattu held in the city followed all traditional practices, Rajasekaran added. 
 
 Karthikeya Sivasenapathy of Senaapathy Kangeyam Cattle Research Foundation said he welcomed the bull-taming sport being held across the state. "Now people want the sport to be held across the state. Their wish is completely justified," he said.
 
 However, he said when such traditional sports are held in places other than where they were being traditionally held care should be taken not to let it get corporatised. "Local people should form committees and hold the sports themselves," he said.
 
 The connection of Kangeyam bulls and the region is best expressed in Rekla race, Sivasenapathy said. "Such bio-cultural aspects should be focused on while promoting traditional sports. That is insightful conservation," he added. "The jallikkattu arenas in Alanganallur and   can be developed more and also be promoted as tourist attractions globally," he said.
 
 N I Jalaluddin of Nature Conservation Society, who was in the collectorate-appointed observation committee for the jallikkattu event, said, "I observed how the bulls are being treated all day. There was a professionalism and love for the animals that I could see," he said.
 
 However, activists from PeTA held to their stance that the sport is inherently cruel and bulls can’t be made to run without being subjected to cruelty. Manilal Valliyate, a PeTA spokesperson from Mumbai, said their volunteers had investigated several jallikattu events held in the state in 2017 and 2018 and had found instances of cruelty, he said.
 
 
