HYDERABAD: The   government expressed its unhappiness over allocations not being made to state government institutions and projects in the   2018-19 presented by Union   minister   on Thursday.

 While the state government sought Rs 40,000 crore for various projects, the Centre had earmarked Rs 75 crore for the Hyderabad IIT and Rs 10 crore for the Tribal university. While Hyderabad IIT is a central government institute, Tribal university allocation was made in the last year's budget. Since it was unutilized, the Centre has alloted the same amount again. The state government may get some amount in the scheme announced by the Centre to provide safe drinking water across the country especially fluoride and arsenic affected areas. Apart from this, the Centre announced it would take up electrification of two railway lines in the state.
 
 Finance minister Eatala Rajender at a press conference on Thursday said that the state government had asked for allocations of Rs 15,000 crore (Rs 5,000 crore each for three years) for 'Mission Kakatiya', Rs 19, 205 crore for Mission Bhagiratha, and Rs 10,000 crore for Kaleshwaram irrigation project. The state government has already spent about Rs 22,000 crore of the total Rs 88,000 crore for the irrigation project. "I met Union finance minister   during the pre-budget meeting held on January 16, 2018 and requested for huge allocation for the new born state. Niti Aayog commended the schemes introduced by the Telangana government and also recommended budgetary support for projects such as Mission Bhagiratha and Mission Kakatiaya. But it is unfortunate that none of them were considered," Rajender said. He said as per the AP Reorganization Act, the Centre has to establish All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Rail Coach Factory, Steel Plant at Bayyaram but nothing happened. 
 
 Officials said the AIIMS were considered in some states such as   and   but Telangana was ignored. The state government in its request earlier asked for allocations for 30 Telangana districts except Hyderabad under backward districts quota. But it was not considered. During 2017-18, the Centre had allocated Rs 450 crore for backward districts. But there was no mention about the funds in the budget.
 
 
