

 It’s not that there is no will to stop the illegal mining in the district. There are certain issues we are trying to take care of while dealing with the mining mafia. Ground officers are to be blamed for not keeping vigil on illegal miners. Junior officers of all three departments namely forests, revenue and panchayati raj, have not performed their duties well. We will also question them for not informing officials about the illegal activities on time. The mining department also has not taken any action on the report submitted by me in July last year. So, I am bound to take corrective measures.
 
 
 
 
 I don’t agree. There may be some cases in which mining mafia started operating at the same site again after police action but such cases are minimum. Our target is to rid Mohali of the mining mafia and every possibvle step is being taken. We have constituted teams to check the illegal mining and officials have been asked to submit bi-weekly reports after conducting checks. Those who fail in ther duties will be held accountable.
 
 
 
 
 This issue is yet to be redressed. We have been receiving major complaints regarding poor infrastructure at the various government schools in the district. Reports have been received of children sitting on floors while attending the classes, which defies the   norms. Letters have been written to the   education department but no compliance has been made so far. The provision of infrastructure for primary and secondary schools is under jurisdiction of education department but so far it still needs to be redressed. We have very less budget to spend on the schools.
 
 
 
 
 
 This is another blot on the district administration as such scrap dealers must be stopped from operating on the government land. We have failed to remove them but soon we will be issuing orders for removal of such dealers and ensure no biomedical waste is sold to them. We will need the cooperation of   also to be able to do so.
 
 
 
 
 
 I am in touch with municipal commissioner on this issue. He told me that efforts are being made to bring about some transport system so that rural areas can also be connected with the city. I have been apprised that MC is working out modalities to tie up with   to extend their routes in the entire district.
 
 
 
 
 This should not be taken as non-compliance of my orders. Terming me as a toothless tiger will be unjust. It is true that my orders under Section 144 of the CrPC to remove all roadside vendors from national highway near Kharar and tobacco sellers from markets have more or less been refuted. The issue is such that forced evacuation will affect the daily livelihood of the vendors.
 
 
 Though we keep on removing such vendors, they keep on coming back time and again.
 
