THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Ahead of the inauguration of the   here on Friday, global IT networking major Cisco announced it will launch an incubator for startups at the Indian Institute of Information Technology and Management, Kerala (IITM-K) in association with the NASSCOM Foundation.

 Cisco India chief   said the ‘thingQbator’ to be set up in state will be the first of its kind in the country and three more are planned in other states. It will focus on startups to nurture and develop ideas in the domain of Internet of Things (IoT) and blockchain technology, among other things. State IT secretary   said the incubator will aim at skill and entrepreneurship development.
 
 In addition, the ICT Academy of Kerala will collaborate with Cisco to launch a networking academy programme to meet the demand for people with skills and knowledge required to set up computer networks.
 
 Cisco will extend the programme to 50 engineering colleges in the state, he said. “Over the last few years, we have been running social innovation forums. We realized that people needed business inputs and that’s why we decided to create entrepreneur contents to be provided to students which will expose them not only to IoT devices and makerspaces (digital fabrication, programming, craft, and electronics) but also to course content and mentorships,” said Shrikant Sinha, CEO of the NASSCOM Foundation.
 
 The incubator to be set up in partnership with Cisco will start functioning in one-and-half-months, Kerala Start-up Mission (KSUM) CEO Dr Saji Gopinath said.
 
 The state government has also announced a   (KIC) to find solutions to socially relevant problems. As part of it, the state would host global think tank Singularity University’s (SU) India Global Impact Challenge (GIC) and has invited applications for innovations and ideas for startups that can have an impact on a billion people over the next ten years.
 
 The GIC are annual contests held in partnership with sponsor organisations worldwide and are open to entrepreneurs and innovators. The winner can take part in the Singularity University’s incubator programme that nurtures startups.
 
 The tops teams will also be shortlisted for the KIC and will have an opportunity to pitch for an innovation grant of Rs 80,00,000 for implementing the project in the state.
 
 
