By: 
 

 The  , which has largely been fleecing and holding Goans and the state to ransom, reared it’s ugly head, yet again.
 
 To my knowledge, a large section of the members of the taxi association are not aware of the advantages of an app-based platform, to which they can link their business. 
 
 Are they deliberately misinformed? If yes, by whom?
 
 The net business of our Goan brothers who ply taxis will rise in an app-based system. They will no longer be dependent on a ‘turn system’. Effort will be proportionately rewarded with better income. 
 
 If the tariff is standardised and the process streamlined, I am confident a number of Goans and tourists would liberally avail of taxi services. I would. 
 
 This time around, there was opposition to installation of speed governors. I was disappointed to see the issue being politicised and politicians across party lines supporting the taxi strike, some of whom I personally respect. I guess most of them were playing to a voter gallery. 
 
 The association is trying to bring the state and its people to their knees. The government should not give in, not only because the demands are unreasonable, but also because it would set a wrong precedent. 
 
 By no means am I generalising that all Goan taxi drivers belong to a single category. However, the majority of people have had bad experiences with taxi operators in Goa. Many testify to the manner in which the taxi lobby loots tourists and locals. Many taxi operators have unwritten rules about not letting people pick up their friends from hotels where they are staying. What kind of unacceptable behaviour is this? 
 
 Strike by all means; go on a permanent strike as many have suggested. Let there be healthy competition and let that decide the market. For how long will we hide behind the ‘niz Goenkar’ card? What about cheating ‘niz Goenkars’? Where is   in that? 
 
 We are not asking for non-Goans to settle in the state and ply taxis. No. We want to streamline the current Goenkar taxi. We want digital meters to be mandatory. Let them be fixed within a year’s time. 
 
 Open the market and let companies come in. App-based services are amazing and user-friendly. The advantage of using Ola and Uber over an indigenously developed and controlled application would be the existing workforce, logistics and administrative/corporate experience.
 
 I am in favour of ensuring locals are given preference for enrolment in an  . Also, the minimum base fare per kilometre should be a little higher than that in the rest of India to to ensure decent incomes.
 
 The writer is a student at the Goa Dental College. Views expressed are personal.
 
 
