BENGALURU : How to improve muscle memory? When to approach a podiatrist? Can sports drinks help? What is imagery?

 
 The answers to these questions of upcoming shooters, who find it difficult to get the nitty-gritties of their sport, can be found in the International Shooting Sport Federation’s Athletes Handbook brought out by the   headed by  .
 
 The pioneering work, the content for which was developed by Bengaluru-based  , will be of great help to upcoming shooters as it covers a wide range of topics – from mind games, nutrition, managing one’s career and getting a coaching licencse from the  .
 
 “We wanted to provide a good resource for young athletes,” Bindra told TOI when asked about the main reason which prompted the commission to take up the work.
 
 Explaining the art of finding the right balance between when to train and when to stop, triple Olympic champion Niccolo Campriani recalls that his part-time work at Ferrari helped him win gold medals.
 
 “It is a fine balance between passion and obsession. It’s like a healthy relationship where you have to find the right distance. Not too far, not too close. Initially, I was never able to find that balance. So, I had to impose that balance, either through University studies or part-time occupation (at Ferrari). I involved myself in these other things and when there were about four to six months left for the Games, I began to slow down. Not to train more, but just to save mental energy! Gradually, I began thinking about what I am going to do and how I am going to feel at the Olympic final. This turned out to be ideal preparation!” the Italian says.
 
 “When I began shooting with a rifle, there was no coach. My dad and I used to refer to a book to learn the basics. The book was in a language I could not understand, but we still managed to make use of it by improvising and finding creative solutions. In that sense, resources such as this handbook can be really useful. I hope that athletes around the world can absorb relevant aspects from the book and use it in unique ways to pursue a successful life,” Campriani said.
 
 Asked about translations, Bindra hinted it could be in the pipeline. “It is not clear as yet,” he added.
 
 Set in Q&A format, the first part deals with ‘Making Your Body Work For You.’ It dwells on matters from the basic to the complex and gives an insight into importance of posture, breathing, balance, stability, vision and sleep.
 
 The second part is on mind games and answers several questions including those on biofeedback training and on how to ‘rest’ between various rounds of shooting. “A training routine based on various (body) data in order to enhance self-control abilities. Such a training routine is called biofeedback training,” the handbook explains.
 
 The fifth and last part elaborates on planning for the future answering various queries including on goals and goal-setting. The 241-page book, available as free download on the   website, answers 110 questions across 11 different sections.
 
 Nandan Kamath, managing trustee, GoSports Foundation, said they had done a similar project for the BCCI last year and brought out the Official Cricketer’s Handbook. “I liked the attention to detail and how it was specific to shooting sport – like nutrition and injuries. Also the practical things for travelling with equipment and navigating tournaments,” Kamath said....eom
 
