By- Rhythm   and Aarushi Seth

 Extracurricular activities are no more just for recreation. Among a sea of nearly identical grades and equivalent degrees, they help students stand out during placements. 
 
 
 Well aware of this, most city colleges are offering learning opportunities beyond classrooms in the form of festivals and clubs. 
 
  
  
 
 Participation not only develops leadership, communication and problem-solving skills, but makes students job-ready. 
 
 Prominent arts colleges are leading the way with flagship festivals. “We oversee their activities, but do not interfere,” said Dr Ashok Wadia,   College principal. But do these events make students ready for life outside college, responsibility, networking and negotiating skills? “At St Xavier’s, I participated in Malhar and   as a volunteer and progressed to executive in-charge. This helped me develop leadership skills and build a strong network inside as well as outside college” said Mehak Chadha, an alumna. Malhar has a volunteer force of thousands of students and Mithibai’s Kshitij festival receives a footfall of 45,000 annually. 
 
 A current Xavier’s student, Anne Thomas, said, “Before joining the Malhar team, I was scared to talk to people I didn’t know. I learned to communicate and gained confidence.” Last year, Somaiya, HR, NMIMS, SIES, St Xavier’s and Jai Hind hosted TEDx events. 
 
  too is expected to host one this year. Other than festivals and events, colleges also push students to join academic and non-academic societies and clubs. R A Podar College Of Commerce & Economics recently initiated an entrepreneurship development cell on the campus three years ago. 
 
 The activities have become mandatory at some colleges. St. Xavier’s has made it mandatory to achieve certain number of extracurricular non-academic credits. Jai Hind too plans on giving students credits and grades for extracurricular and social activities. But not all colleges believe this is the best strategy. 
 
 “Enthusiastic students, under the right guidance, do not need an incentive or point system to participate in extracurriculars,” believes Narsee Monjee principal Parag Ajgaonkar. Extracurriculars also disciplines students. “Playing sports inculcates a sense of responsibility.” said B B sharma, principal of Kelker’s Vaze College. 
 
