TRICHY: Unwilling to accept the government prescribed fare for autorickshaws, a section of drivers from the city put the blame on   autos for allegedly causing loss to their business here on Monday.

 A group of autorickshaw drivers petitioned district collector   stating that the invasion of mobile app based OLA autos took its toll on their livelihood.
 
 “The charge being collected by OLA is lower than the government prescribed fare of Rs12 per kilometer. The private player is offering ride for Rs29 for four kilometers. It affects our business. So, we demand the district administration to put a ban on OLA autos,” said an autorickshaw driver  , in his petition to the district collector on Monday.
 
 The government prescribed fare minimum fare for was 1.8 km – Rs25, for every additional kilometer it was Rs12, waiting charge was Rs3.50 per every five minutes, night charges (between 11pm to 5 am) was a 50 % additional charge. They demanded to increase the fare to Rs30 for first 1.5 km and Rs15 for every additional km. 
 
 The auto-drivers also expressed their willingness to charge as per the meter. However, they showed their disagreement with the present tariff of the government.
 
 “The government tariff will not be profitable to us considering the hike in petrol price. The increase in tariff will give us an impetus to switch to metered autos,” said an autodriver S Arumugam. They made suggestions to digitalise the system for automatic revision of fare, according to the change in price of fuel. “Whenever there is a change in the price of fuel, we are not empowered to change the tariff. So, the government can introduce GPRS enabled meter so that the fare can be revised automatically, as per the fuel price,” said another autorickshaw driver A Velmurugan.
 
 They submitted a petition to the collector and demanded the meters should be provided free of cost by the government. It may be pointed out that   affiliated autorickshaws already planned to run the autos on meter, but they withdrew their plan citing ‘low-income’.
 
 
