JAIPUR: The   ( ), sanitation workers are flouting solid waste handling rules and Supreme Court norms with impunity and burning garbage and dry leaves in public areas to reduce their hassle.

 Like many other residents, plot owners of C-scheme, a posh locality in the middle of the city alleged that burning garbage is a common site in their area.
 
 Sadhna Garg, a resident of Azad Marg, C-scheme who lives opposite Deer Park said, “I have objected sanitation workers several times not to burn leaves and waste in open as pollution is not only posing health hazards to the residents living around, but also the deer and birds in the park. The matter has been reported to JMC officials and local councillor several times however, no action has been taken.”
 
 It has been further alleged that the contractor and some of the employees of the municipal corporation instead of collecting the dry leaves and garbage into the trolley, dump them at a place and burn it there to avoid their hassle. “The bins are removed from the area and if collecting vehicles do not pick up the entire garbage, the sanitation workers burn it on site,” said Indrajeet Singh, another resident of C-scheme.
 
 An official source at JMC said that as per the ministry of environment and forest’s   (Management and Handling) rules -2000, the waste cannot be burnt. The   also came out with an order prohibiting burning of garbage. “Garbage burning increases pollution manifold. But the unfazed JMC employees, instead of stopping people from burning garbage, are doing it themselves,” said Suman Mishra, resident of Sodala area.
 
 In the city, a contracted firm has been appointed for collecting waste from houses in 91 wards. The employees of the company do not pick garbage collected on the roads. For that job, the JMC has deployed sweepers for cleaning the streets. However, there is no arrangement for garbage collection.
 
 Residents alleged that garbage is mostly these sanitation workers burn garbage during morning time. Vijay Sharma, resident of Ajmer road said, “ Hundreds of people go for a walk in the parks while thousands of children go to schools in morning. They are getting severely affected by the pollution created by the burning of garbage.”
 
 
