AMRITSAR: Talks of differences between local body minister Navjot Singh   and chief minister   gained ground on Monday after the minister indicated that he had not been invited by the party to attend the Amritsar Municipal Corporation’s general house meeting that would elect eighth mayor of the city on Tuesday.

 In reply to a question whether he has received invitation to attend the function, Sidhu said, “Without invitation I only visit Golden Temple, Durgiana Temple and other religious places, else I don’t go anywhere.”
 
 Stating that media will get to know the facts itself, the minister backed Amarinder saying that the CM was doing whatever he wanted to do and he (Sidhu) firmly stood by his decision.
 
 When contacted,   president   said, “It’s not party’s function. All the municipal councillors will cast their votes. Normally, MLAs also go since they have the votes, but I don’t think this is such an election where a minister is required to attend.”
 
 He added, “Anyway it is his (Sidhu’s) department and he is the host, so I don’t think that there is any issue. He is one of the senior most minister and he is the government.”
 
 Asked whether there were any differences between Sidhu and Amarinder, he said there was no question of any difference at all. “It is his department and under his guidance and vision, the results have come.”
 
 On the other hand it is learnt that the Amritsar Municipal Corporation has extended official invitation to Sidhu to attend the function.
 
 Meanwhile taking a dig at Sidhu’s statement, his former colleague and SAD spokesperson   said thought it was an internal matter of the   but soon Sidhu’s condition would be of “neither here nor there”. “Wait and watch, a lot more about this government will be coming out soon,” he added.
 
 Outgoing BJP’s mayor of Amritsar Bakshi Ram Arora claimed that illegal encroachments had already started on corporations land. “A lot of kiosks are being constructed near Saragarhi parking. This is the case before the mayor’s election, what will happen afterwards is anybody’s guess,” he said. The former mayor also raised question on construction of shops on vacant plot near old chungi in Green Avenue area.
 
 
