NEW DELHI: Leading defending champions Mumbai Indians’ resurgence in the last two matches to keep them alive in the   playoffs race, ace allrounder   has also stormed to the top of the bowling charts to claim the Purple Cap for most wickets. His team-mate Suryakumar Yadav has also reduced the gap between the him and the Orange Cap holder for most runs,  , to just 24 runs. 

 
 
 
 
 On Sunday night at the Wankhede Stadium, Pandya followed an unbeaten 35 off 26 balls with figures of 2/19 in four overs to extend his wicket tally to 14, and thus claim the Purple Cap and the Man-of-the-Match award. Pandya’s 14 wickets have come at an average of 16.78 and he has an economy rat of 8.49 after nine games. 
 
 
 
 
 
 At second place is his Mumbai Indians team-mate Mayank Markande with 13 wickets from 10 matches. Also on 13 wickets are Royal Challengers Bangalore’s Umesh Yadav and Trent Boult of Delhi Daredevils. With RCB in action against table-toppers Sunrisers Hyderabad today, Umesh has a chance to go past Pandya and claim the Purple Cap, as do SRH’s Rashid Khan and Siddarth Kaul who both have 12 wickets. 
 
 Also likely to move upwards on the bowling table are teenager Afghanistan spinner Mujeeb Ur Rahman and Australian pacer Andrew Tye (12 wickets each), given that Kings XI Punjab are in action on Tuesday. 
 
 Rayudu remains the owner of the Orange Cap for most runs (423) but Mumbai opener Suryakumar’s innings of 59 versus Kolkata Knight Riders on Sunday has moved up close at second place, with 399 runs. Also gaining significantly on Sunday was KXIP opener KL Rahul with a match-winning innings of 84* in his team’s win over Rajasthan Royals. 
 
 Rahul, in the T20 form of his career, currently occupies fourth place on the   2018 batting table with 376 runs from nine innings, and with KXIP playing on Tuesday he stands to move further upwards. 
 
 Rishabh Pant is at third position with 393 runs, but Daredevils do not play until Thursday, so chances are good for Rahul to move past him and Suryakumar, given that Mumbai next play on Wednesday. 
 
 
