BHOPAL: A family of five on a motorcycle, hurrying to catch a train, came under the wheels of a college bus near Alpana Talkies tri-section — one of the most accident-prone zones of the city — on Saturday morning. A girl, aged 6, was killed on the spot and the rest injured.

 
 The accident happened just 300metres from   railway station around 9.30am, and the family was trying to catch Punjab Mail at 9.35am to attend a wedding. Police have found that the accident happened when Ram Prasad   took a right turn on his bike at the exact moment that the bus took a left.
 
 The bike was dragged for around 20 feet.   had no chance and was crushed to death. Kushwah, 35, wife   and daughters Sangeeta and Keerti, aged 3 and 4, survived with injuries. Station incharge of   police station, Umesh Singh Chouhan, said Kushwah the family was headed for Lalitpur, about 200km away, to attend the wedding of Rajawati’s niece.
 
 They decided to take the Punjab Mail from Bhopal railway station, about 6km from their house near Mata Mandir.
 
 All five of them got on the bike, with Kushwah’s wife clutching a duffel bag. The college bus, going from Bharat Talkies towards Bhopal talkies, was right behind them when they reached Alpana trisection around 9.30am, say police. The station was barely two minutes away when Kushwah swerved right, and the bus turned left.
 
 Rajawati told police that the bike got stuck under the bumper of the bus and skidded along with them for around 20 feet. Passersby stopped the bus and locals pulled them out from under the bus. They were taken to Hamidia Hospital, where Pooja was declared dead on arrival. Kushwah has a fractured leg and Sangeeta suffered major injuries in the lower portion of her body. Keerti and Rajawati escaped with minor injuries.
 
 SI Chouhan said bus driver  , a resident of Meera Nagar in  , has been arrested and the bus (MP04PA1975) seized. A case has been registered against driver. Alpana trisection has been identified as one of the most accident-prone. A traffic police outpost has been set up here, and remains active 24 hours. 
 
