PANAJI: The construction work of the 500-bed   Goa district hospital will miss the May 2018 deadline. The work is likely to be completed only in September, a Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) official told TOI without specifying any reason for the delay.

 “The structure will be ready in September. After this, it will be the government’s responsibility to purchase hospital requirements such as equipment and other items,” the officer said.
 
 In December 2017, chief minister Manohar Parrikar, in a written reply, had told the Goa Legislative assembly that the hospital will be ready in May 2018.
 
 Following persistent demands about the inconvenience caused to the people of Goa, the government had also constituted a committee to expedite, monitor and ensure timely construction of the project.
 
 Health minister Vishwajit Rane said it is GSIDC’s responsibility to complete the project at the earliest. He also admitted that a lot of work of the project is yet to be completed.
 
 “I'm continuously pursuing the project. There’s been a long pending demand of the people of South Goa to complete it without further delay," said Rane. He said funds for the project have been periodically paid by the health department.
 
 The  , which caters to South Goa, is in a dilapidated condition and ill-equipped to handle the load of patients. Many a times, patients from South Goa are referred to Goa Medical College and Hospital.
 
 The much-delayed district hospital project commenced during the Congress government’s 2007-2012 term, when Digambar Kamat was chief minister. The work, however, was awarded only in December 2015, at a negotiated price of Rs 99.6 crore.
 
 An official said that even if the construction work is completed in September, he doesn’t see the hospital becoming functional in that month unless the government chalks out a plan of action. 
 
 “The health department will have to assess the requirements of equipment and additional manpower for the new building, even as existing equipment and other items will be shifted to the new building,” he said.
 
 The officer said the government will have to decide how it will undertake the shifting into the new premises and also assess the requirement of additional manpower for the new hospital.
 
 “Shifting is not an easy task. Capable and efficient persons must be entrusted with this job. Otherwise, after the hospital is ready, people will be only running helter and skelter,” he said, while pointing out that it will be a repeat of the problems faced during the shifting of the Old Asilo hospital setup to the Mapusa district hospital premises.
 
