HYDERABAD: Getting a school to be named after your beloved one has become too costly in  . The   has jacked up the price by 500 per cent more for the government educational institutions which can be named after donors.

 The government has also tweaked the earlier rules and has now instructed the   not to change the name of the schools, but name only the building, blocks or classrooms after the donors or the name suggested by the donors.
 
 The TRS government issued orders a couple of days ago jacking up the prices for school buildings being named after donors. As per the latest orders from the TRS government, donors have to pay a minimum of 25 lakh (new price) instead of 5 lakh (old Price) towards purchase of land or construction of building to accommodate a primary school.
 
 Henceforth, only a building or a block in government primary school premises would be named after the donor or the name of his or her choice only if the donation is over 25 lakh. The government has also revised upwards the donation limit from a mere 7.50 lakh (old price) to 50 lakh (new price) for a building or a block in a upper primary school premises to be named after the donor.
 
 The donor has to cough up a whopping 1 crore for a building or a block in high school premises. A minimum of 1 crore will ensure that a building or a block will be named after the donor.
 
 
 
 
 Officials of   department defended the hike in donation limit stating that the cost of construction material has gone up. School education director G Kishan told TOI that donation rates were fixed in 2004 and since then the construction cost has gone up tremendously.
 
 “There have been protests from local villagers against naming of schools after individual donors. In some villages, locals held dharnas demanding that schools should not be named after donors as there could be multiple donors,” he said.
 
 Kishan said they had written to the government to enhance donation limit in tune with the prevailing construction cost and also stop naming the schools after donors. “We suggested that only a building or a block can be named and the government has agreed,” he said.
 
 The School education department has given the task to the Centre for Good Governance (CGG) to finalise the modalities of creating a “Donors Corner” on the web site.
 
 
