PANAJI; The directorate of mines and geology has invited applications from mining dependent people to take up works under the Goa District Mineral oundation (GDMF). A total of Rs 180 crore has been collected under the fund, out of which Rs 93 crore is from   and Rs 86 crore from South Goa. 

 The directorate has assumed an active role on this matter after a sharp rap by the high court of Bombay at Goa, which expressed shock and concern over the state’s non-utilization of mining funds. It then asked panchayats to create awareness about the district mineral foundation fund (DMFF) so that appropriate projects can be taken up. 
 
 The   Rules, 2016, came into force on January 12, 2015. But both north and south district foundations were notified only on December 7, 2017. While the court passed a few orders during Sonshi’s drinking water crisis, the foundations held their first meeting only on March 23, 2018.
 
 The court had passed a series of orders, the last one on March 7, 2018, to ensure drinking water to   and also to lay a supply pipeline. But the court said that despite availability of funds, a similar Sonshi-like water crisis exists in  .
 
 The fund can be utilized for restoring the ecology damaged by mining or other allied activities. Some of these include tree plantation in affected areas, health facilities, education, building road/bridge networks, desilting of water bodies including dams, rivers, installing pollution control devices, sewage treatment plants, providing required assistance in agriculture, horticulture, dairy farming, animal husbandry, etc.
 
 The fund also can be utilized for collecting, transporting and disposing waste, cleaning of public places, providing proper drainage, sewerage treatment plants, making provisions for disposal of fecal sludge, making provision of toilets and other related activities, setting up of permanent monitoring units along the dedicated mining corridors, setting up of acoustic and wind barrier by way of extensive plantation along with the dedicated corridors, etc.
 
 The fund can be utilized for activities such as health facilities, education, building road/bridge networks, desilting of water bodies, installing pollution control devices, sewage treatment plants, and tree plantations among others
 
 
