NAGPUR: For the first time in the city as well as the region, a mother and child care facility has been started under one roof. Beginning from conception by the mother to delivery, to neonatal or new born baby to paediatric (till 18 years of age), all the diagnosis and treatment facilities will be available at one place.

 Dr  , senior paediatrician and the brain behind the concept, had been planning for a long time to club these facilities. “The aim is to provide advanced paediatric, neonatal and maternity intensive and   at one place. After the delivery there are many complications that arise in the baby. The baby needs to be sent to another   for the treatment. There is a time lag in starting the treatment. But, when all the care from delivery to child care is under one roof lot many babies can be saved,” he said.
 
 All these facilities have been established as per the norms of the NABH (National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers) at the   in Dhantoli. “Preventing infection is one of the main aims in the hospital. Hence to prevent any germs entering the hospital from outside negative pressure rooms have been built in all the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) and Paediatric Intensive care Unit (PICU) rooms,” said Dr Deopujari.
 
 Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, one of the directors, said that the concept of mother and child care at one place basically is meant to tackle the high risk pregnancies where children are born with low birth weight, and infections, congenital defects etc. 
 
 “This set up gives timely management and treatment of the baby. It is the only facility where super specialists from all neonatal branches and paediatric experts like surgery, cardiology, orthopaedics, endocrinology, dermatology, haematology, plastic surgery, radiology, pathology etc are available at one place,” he said.
 
 The mother and child care facility also has provision for an obstetric (post birth) care intensive care unit where all treatments related to the mother care are available.
 
 The hospital is also planning to start paediatric liver and bone marrow transplant units.
 
 
