AHMEDABAD: On March 27, Akota MLA Seema Mohile introduced an “oath” while the state assembly was in session. The oath was to preserve India’s first World Heritage City, Ahmedabad. The agenda also sought the state’s wholehearted support in pressing for a Rs 200 crore grant from the Union government for helping Ahmedabad city attain its objective of rejuvenating inner-city economy and preserving the many private havelis. Somehow, since the “oath” was scheduled last on the agenda that day, it never came up for discussion and was postponed to the upcoming monsoon session. Since July 7, 2017, when Ahmedabad was declared by Unesco as World Heritage City, Amdavadis have been seeking active state support for aiding conservation activities.

 
  
 
 It has been 10 months since the 535.7 hectares space consisting of 2,696 properties in Ahmedabad’s   area was nominated by Unesco for the heritage honour. The Unesco tag comes with enormous responsibility of putting in place a protection and conservation management plan and that requires funds. In July last year, the   on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS), Unesco’s think tank, had recommended a detailed ‘to do’ list to the state government. The report had warned of increasing development pressures and traffic congestion, which were causing original inhabitants to move out of the area. The ICOMOS report also stated that increasingly, traditional pol houses were being rented to people who do not have the same bond with the area. In other cases, the old havelis were being used as warehouses. This, according to ICOMOS, was causing changes to the community structures and causing rapid deterioration of the historic houses, sometimes resulting in wilful demolition of historical architectural or decorative elements. 
 
 “Since 2013, only six TDR certificates were issued,” a senior AUDA official said. “The main purpose of these certificates was to empower heritage property owners with funds once they sell their TDRs to developers outside the Walled City limits. Only one TDR managed to garner revenue.” The net TDR certificates were to generate Rs 350 crore for the Walled City, the AUDA official said. 
 
 The ICOMOS report mentioned several risk factors, such as environmental pressures which include moisture penetration through cracks or rising damp, termite infestation of wooden elements, and the impact of industrial pollution. “All these agents of deterioration are magnified by the lack of maintenance,” said the ICOMOS report.
 
 “We have special development control regulations in place and a system of approval for repair and conservation of properties as well,” says a senior AMC TDO official. “But there is hardly any awareness regarding the new laws among Walled City inhabitants. If there are shortfalls in compliance the process for approvals for repairs is slower.” 
 
 
