SHILLONG: Visiting this poll-bound state for the second time this year, BJP national president   on Friday promised to make Meghalaya a model and   in the next five years if his party is voted to power. 

 Speaking at a thinly-attended rally at the Malki ground here, Shah said the   government at the Centre has been showering favours on the hill state and the ruling Congress is to blame for having failed to utilize central funds.
 
 Sharing the dais with Shah were former cabinet minister  , BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav, BJP's Delhi president Manoj Tiwari and all the four contesting candidates from the city. Shah also addressed an election rally at Jowai on Friday, introducing all BJP candidates to the crowd.
 
 Urging all members of the crowd to go back home and phone at least 30 close acquaintances and ask them to vote for the BJP, Shah said, "We have done more for Meghalaya in four years than the Congress did in 45 years since Meghalaya attained statehood."
 
 Shah said Meghalaya was allotted Rs 20000 crore more in the   than the 13th Finance Commission during the Congress regime. "In addition to this, Rs. 6040 crore was given to the state for the implementation of various schemes," he added.
 
 "If this amount was spent properly the state would have witnessed development. But Congress leaders who had tin roof houses now live in mansions and own vehicles by swindling the developmental funds," Shah alleged.
 
 Terming the Congress government in Meghalaya the "most corrupt," he said the people now have a choice to change this government and vote for the BJP, which wants to bring in development.
 
 Shah iterated that the party would start coal mining within 180 days of coming to power. The BJP president also said one youth from every family would be provided job opportunity, pucca houses and 24X 7 electricity will be provided for all. 
 
 Slamming the Congress further, he said due to its misrule 70 percent of the fund allotted for the education sector went unspent. "There is a shortfall of 60 per cent Maths and Science teachers and 70 percent shortfall of doctors in the state," he said.
 
 Shah further said due to high unemployment there has been an increase of 45 per cent in the suicide rate in the state and the crime rate against women and children has increased by 30 per cent.
 
 "We will make Meghalaya a model and corruption-free state in the next five years," Shah promised.
 
 
