AHMEDABAD/NEW DELHI: A cow strayed near the runway of the   early on Thursday morning forcing at least two international flights to abort landing and getting diverted to Mumbai.

 A flight from Abu Dhabi and a cargo plane were diverted to Mumbai when their pilots spotted a cow near the runway, sources said. Arrival of five-odd flights and a few departures were also impacted.
 
 Chairman of the Airport Authority of India (AAI)   told TOI, “A cow had entered through cargo side. But it was controlled soon.”
 
 The AAI has sought a detailed report from the airport director (APD), Ahmedabad airport, on the presence of a cow in 'operational area'. “The chairman has asked the APD to ascertain possibility of any human negligence in the incident. Directives have been given to take stringent steps to avoid any such occurrences in future,” a statement by the AAI office said. Airport director Manoj Gangal said, “A stray animal was detected in the operational area. Our first concern was the safety of passengers and airport infrastructure.”
 
 Airport sources said the ‘freak incident’ that took place at around 3am had CISF,   and airport fire staff struggle for nearly one-and-ahalf hours with sticks and air-gun to remove the cow from the area.
 
 “A CISF personnel first spotted a cow entering the airport operational area from near the cargo gate,” said a source.
 
 Alert was raised when the ATC officials also spotted a ‘foreign element’ near the runway.
 
 “The ATC, CISF and airport fire staff worked hard for nearly one and half hours with the cow running amok on the runway too. The bovine finally exited from the gate which opens towards the cantonment area,” sources said.
 
 
 
 
 Top AAI official said: “Local airport officials have been directed to coordinate with civic authorities and city police to lay cattle traps at all possible locations where animals including cattle could enter the cargo premises."
 
 “Cattle incursions into airport premises can be curbed,” the official said. “Of late, AAI officials in Delhi had taken up the problem of animal incursions on runways. In Patna airport, there is a problem of foxes and in Kolkata the problem is of jackals burrowing holes," the official added.
 
 The official further said that in the past few weeks, the AAI authorities had caught 41jackals from Kolkata airport and then rehabilitated them in a forest area far away from the airport.
 
