Papneja, whose family migrated from   near   in Pakistan to India during the Partition, is known as one of the most successful dentists in  . He is equally well-known for promoting education among India’s underprivileged rural children through the concept of student hostels.

 Papneja who came to Toronto in 1981 said, “We carry out the mission of educating poor rural students in India through our non-profit AIM for Seva, Canada. Seva has chapters in many western countries. We started the Toronto chapter in 2002 and every year we organize fundraisers for our mission in India,’’ says Papneja who runs his Axis Dental Group in the Indian-dominated city of   on the outskirts of Toronto.
 
 
 Over the years, Papneja’s non-profit body has raised over $6.6 million for building student hostels for poor rural students in India.
 
 “In the first year in 2002, we raised $20,000. But at the last year’s fundraiser, we collected $1 million. We are getting overwhelming response from people here who want to donate to the concept of student hostel for rural India’s underprivileged kids,’’ says the soft-spoken Papneja who is the president of AIM for Seva.
 
 “Thanks to donations from AIM for Seva, 113 student hostels have been set up across India. Our Toronto chapter has contributed to setting up 26 hostels,’’ he says.
 
 “At the AIM for Seva Hostels all needs of the students are taken care of and they get education from fifth grade to secondary level. After that, we take care of their higher education and professional training so that they become financially independent. Each student hostel accommodates up to 40-50 students. Our mission is to educate and empower rural India’s poor kids,’’ says the Indo-Canadian dentist.
 
 Most of these student hostels have been started in the povertyridden areas of   and UP. “The locations of student hostels are also chosen on the basis of where   donors want them. We want to extend this concept to the whole of India,’’ says Papneja who regularly visits India to see the progress of student hostels.
 
 “Often I go to new locations and it gives me great satisfaction to see the happiness on the faces of the parents of those poor students.’’ According to Papneja, every year NRIs from Toronto alone sponsor 600 students in India through AIM for Seva.
 
 For its work to educate and empower rural India’s poor kids, AIM for Seva has been accorded special consultative status with the Economic and Social Council of the UN and honoured by the University of Winnipeg.
 
 “Papneja said there mission in India is getting bigger and bigger each year say Papneja who came to Toronto in 1981.
 
 “I finished my degree in dentistry in India and worked there for over a year before coming to Canada. My wife was already here. Since I had to update my Indian credentials, I joined dentistry course at the   and finished in 1986. The same year I opened my clinic in Brampton,’’ he says.
 
 Over the years, Papneja’s dentistry practice grew rapidly, making his group one of the most famous in the Greater Toronto Area.
 
