SURAT: The Gems and   (GJEPC) has taken a tough stand against the recent crackdown by the Goods and   (GST) and central excise departments on angadia firms delivering diamonds and jewellery from   to Mumbai.

 The GJEPC officials have strongly opposed the action stating that such a move can damage the diamond business, which relies on informal network of trusted couriers since decades. 
 
 Officials stated that tax officials are not fully aware of how the diamond trade works and needs to be sensitized on the role of diamond couriers. 
 
 The GST and central excise departments in Mumbai carried out a major crackdown on angadias at the Mumbai Central railway station last Thursday. Around 125 packets containing diamonds and   jewellery were seized on the suspicion of evading huge amount of tax. 
 
 The investigation revealed that some of the parcels were genuine as the applicable duties and taxes were paid, while majority of them were found without proper papers. While the genuine parcels were released on last Friday, the department has seized parcels on which duties were not paid. 
 
 “Diamond couriers are the backbone of the industry and they have been traditionally transporting diamonds and precious jewellery between Surat, Mumbai and other centres,” GJEPC’s chief executive director   said.
 
 According to Ray, the rough diamonds imported to India, on which the importers are paying 0.25% GST, are sent to the processing centres in Surat, Bhavnagar, Amreli, Ahmedabad and   for cutting and polishing. The diamond units doing job work deduct the job work charge of 5% and they sent back the finished goods to their original destinations, either in Mumbai or Surat, through the diamond couriers or angadias. 
 
 The final GST on sale of polished diamonds, that is 3%, is paid at the time of sale. The tax officials have seized the parcels, which were in transit to their final destination. The GST will be paid once the goods are received and sold by the owner. There is no point in seizing the diamond parcels, Ray added. 
 
 The GJEPC has asked the central government to institute new rules on GST for diamonds, similar to those in Belgium, where there is no tax on transactions between registered diamond traders.
 
 In India, the tax applies to imported diamonds, but not exported ones. As such, when diamond traders import stones for manufacturing, they must pay the import levy and then claim a refund when they export the polished diamonds — a process Ray called “futile” since 95% of the diamonds in Indian market are destined for export after cutting and polishing.
 
 
