After Class 6 student Rohan’s mother was transferred to a school away from Kochi, the boy would spend some time alone at home on returning from school. The watchman of his housing colony had been watching this and befriended him by gifting him something or the other. One day, after winning his confidence, he took him to his room and tried to abuse him, sexually.

 The 11-year-old knew what was good touch and bad touch, thanks to the awareness sessions at his school. He resisted the watchman’s attempts and fled to safety. He wasted no time in informing his brother and then his parents about it, leading to the dismissal of the watchman. “When I returned home, I found that my son had dealt with it well. We are glad that he was able to react immediately,” says his mother who is a teacher.
 
 A few of the residents in that colony are upset that the issue was brushed under the carpet and not reported to the police. “Such people shouldn’t be allowed to go scot free. Rohan might have escaped his attempt but the same man may have abused other children. Hence, legal measures should be initiated. When it comes to boys, we do not always take it seriously,” says P V Jain, a resident, who has filed a case at the Palarivattom police station, nearly a month after the incident.
 
 Sexual abuse can be traumatic for children and its impact everlasting, irrespective of gender. Often, while great care is taken to protect girls, the abuses faced by boys are swept under the carpet. According to the Study on Child Abuse: India 2007 by the Ministry of Women and Child Welfare which was supported by The United Nations Children's Fund, 53.22% children faced one or more forms of sexual abuse; among them, the number of boys abused was 52.94% and of girls was 47.06%.
 
  
  
 
  
 Ernakulam Child Welfare Committee chairperson Padmaja Nair tells us that the repercussions of sexual abuse in a boy is as traumatic as that in a girl. “We should not discount the shock and trauma of the boy child, saying ‘aankuttiyalle…’ Even if the abuse is of minor nature, the child should be given counselling as the trauma is lifelong. It will lead to insecurity, diffidence and the child may withdraw into a shell,” she says, adding that the reported number of cases of sexual abuse of boys is on the rise. “Recently, a case came before us where the child was consistently abused for four years. When he couldn’t bear it any longer, he finally opened up to his mother. What we need to do is empower the children and give them the confidence to share it with their near ones. Counselling is a must for victims, otherwise it will remain a scar forever,” she says.
 
  
  
 Job Zachariah, The United Nations Children's Fund’s field chief, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, asserts that it is the responsibility of the society to provide the right atmosphere to the children. “Hence, no kind of abuse should be tolerated. Investing in a child is to invest in the society's future. We need to teach our children the simple mantra — No, Go, Tell. It means first we need parents, caretakers and family to empower children to say ‘No’ to the abuser and run away from there. Often it’s the close relative or someone whom the child knows who abuses him. We need to empower him so that they would share the details with his elders. At that time, the parent or the caretaker needs to assure the child that they fully trust him and the incident has happened not because of any mistake on his part. Third, the caretaker or parent to whom the kid shares it should report it immediately,” he explains.
 
 He adds that it is high time for the society to stop being silent about child sex abuse. “As per the study of WCD ministry in 2007, 53 % of children in India are sexually abused. It is an alarming figure. Sex abuse is the most heinous crime against children. The impact of abuse is permanent. We need to raise our voice and expose the silence around  ,” he says adding that one should compulsorily provide professional support in terms of psycho-social support and counselling to the affected children. 
 
  
  
  
 
 Researcher and teacher of law Veena Roshan says any sexual offence against a child will have stringent punishment under the  . “The purpose of the act is to provide protection to all children from the offences of sexual assault, sexual harassment and pornography. Depending of the gravity of the offence, one can be imprisoned for not less than 10 years which may extend to life sentence. Section 19 of the Act also provides for mandatory reporting of sexual offences. This casts a legal duty upon a person who has knowledge that a child has been sexually abused to report the offence; if he fails to do so, he may be punished with six months’ imprisonment and/or a fine under Section 21,” she says.
 
