TRICHY: Many students from   constituent college at Lalgudi were forced to pay semester examination fee with a   of Rs 300 despite paying it before the stipulated period.

 While Bharathidasan University had fixed March 1 as the deadline to pay semester examination fee without fine for students in all its affiliated and constituent colleges, principal of a college in Lalgudi unilaterally changed the last date to February 26 for his students and started collecting late payment fine.
 
 The arts and   in Kumulur village in Lalgudi has about 1400 students. principal of the college, V P   had put out a circular declaring February 26 as the last date to pay the examination fee without fine.
 
 Though the principal maintains that his act was to ensure that   fee is collected well in advance, he has not obtained prior permission from the university administration.
 
 While a UG student on an average has to pay exam fee ranging from Rs 700 to over Rs 1500 based on his arrear papers, students who paid their fee on or after February 26 had to pay an additional Rs 300 as fine.
 
 While most of the students come from rural and poor background, paying more than Rs 1000 above as exam fee is indeed a huge amount for them.
 
 Terming the decision from the college as unfortunate, a student on request of anonymity said that “we have been punished for the mistake that we have not committed. The college is free to collect fine if we the fee was paid after the deadline but this is fleecing.”
 
 Speaking to TOI, Principal of the college Thangavelu confessed to have issued such a circular among his college students. Asked reason for imposing fine 2 days prior to the last date fixed by the university, Thangavelu said that it may not be possible to collect fee from all the students if they stick to the deadline fixed by the university.
 
 The university too was unaware of such a unilateral decision taken by Thangavelu. Repeated attempts to reach the controller of examination K Doraiyarasan went in vain.
 
 
