Chandigarh: Summer is a punishing time for residents of Sector 48, who deal with water shortage and erratic supply every year. Residents race against time as they only get water between 6am and 7pm. 

 The problem of water shortage is so severe that it is difficult for people to meet their drinking water needs. Ironically, the city is among the forerunners in the Smart City Project, which envisages a decent life for residents.
 
 Not that things are any different on the lower floors, but here people resort to reserve tanks. Residents use the electric motor multiple times a day to pump water from reserve tanks to overhead tanks.
 
 People have often raised the issue with the municipal corporation and mayor Davesh Moudgil also visited group housing activities to talk to residents about this. He promised dedicated pumping or direct pumping from the tubewell from 3am to 6am at Kendriya Vihar Society. However, no action has been taken so far.
 
 The problem is more pronounced in group housing societies without underground water reservoirs. Due to low water pressure, overhead tanks do not get filled. “At the time of construction, the MC declined our request for construction of underground tanks. Officials assured us that supply would be sufficient to fill overhead tanks. Construction of underground reservoir is not possible now,” said B S Cheema, president, Resident Welfare Association(RWA), Kendriya Vihar. 
 
 Apart from residential areas, the motor market area has also been affected by water shortage. Shop owners complained of irregular supply as a hindrance to routine mechanic jobs. “It hampers our pace of work. We need water for tasks such as painting. Also, there is a dearth of drinking water in the afternoon,” said Satpal Saini, a shop owner in the Motor Market. 
 
 PHOTO QUOTES: Very difficult to meet basic needs
 
 There is no water on the first and second floor. The duration of water supply is 30 minutes on the top floor and one hour on the first floor. We cannot accommodate beyond a certain limit 
 
 Harpreet Singh | Resident, Kendriya Vihar
 
 Overhead tanks are not getting filled. There is no water on the top after 6:30am. How many people can fill water in 30 minutes?
 
 Dr Deepti Shastri | Resident, Sarvhitkari Society
 
 The situation has deteriorated in the last two weeks. There has been no water supply in the evening for the last two days. Water pressure in the morning is too low 
 
 Shakti Sharma | Resident, Kendriya Vihar
 
 I live on the second floor. At 6am, water pressure is too low for the RO filter to work. Residents manage to fulfill bare minimum requirements only due to the presence of the underground reservoir
 
 Keher Singh | Resident, Sangam Enclave
 
 The situation has not improved despite the mayor’s assurances. Water supply to higher floors is close to negligible
 
 Ramesh Kathuria | Resident, Kendriya Vihar 
 
 We hope the mayor will install the dedicated pumping facility for society. Apart from saving time, it will also save a lot of electricity used by motors to pump water to overhead tanks
 
 B S Cheema | Resident, Kendriya Vihar 
 
 
