PUNE: Around 1430 hectares of land spread over four talukas of Haveli, Maval, Mulshi and Khed in Pune district will be required for the 128-km-long ring road project proposed by Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA).

 
  
 
 Of the total land requirement, 131.1 hectares comprise government land and 23.63 hectares forest land. Around 1275 hectares will have to be acquired from private parties. The total cost of land acquisition has been estimated at Rs 13,594 crore. PMRDA will have to rely on   and direct purchase system to execute the project at the earliest, the authorities said.
 
 The proposed ring road will link six national highways and expressways passing through the city. It is expected to relieve congestion in the metropolitan area, help in the development of satellite townships and provide connectivity to the proposed Purandar international airport.
 
 “We will begin the land acquisition process as has been suggested by the minister,’’ said PMRDA metropolitan commissioner Kiran Gitte.
 
 Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari recently said that once PMRDA has acquired 50% land, they could go in for tenders and once 80% land has been acquired, final sanctions would be given by the National Highways Authority of India ( ).
 
 The work on the stretch has been divided into six segments. In the first phase, PMRDA will undertake work on 32.3-km stretch from   to Nagar Road followed by Nagar Road to Nashik Road (21.45 km), Nashik Road to Mumbai-Pune Expressway (27.53 km), Mumbai-Pune Expressway to   (15.74 km), Hinjewadi to Shivne Road (21.88 km) and, finally, Shivne Road to Satara Road (9.18 km).
 
 “We have nearly 54% plain land, 39% undulated land and 7% hilly terrain for acquisition,’’ said an official.
 
 The officials added that land will be acquired through various options which will include land pooling through town planning schemes, land in lieu of FSI in residential zones and townships, land in lieu of TDR, direct purchase of land and government land.
 
 “We have to start with land acquisition to roll out the process of issuing tenders and sanctions,’’ added the official
 
 
