MADURAI: The Madurai bench of the Madras HC on Monday ordered status quo in the ongoing four-phase polls to cooperative societies in the state and sought a report from the   State Co-operative Societies Election Commission on the nominations received and rejected, and reasons for rejection.

 Several petitioners, including Oddanchatram DMK MLA R  , had moved the   alleging that the poll panel had rejected nominations of candidates from the opposition parties without assigning reasons, but accepted the nominations of   candidates and declared them winners.
 
 Court asks co-op societies election panel to file report
 
 The petitioners argued that ministers were appointed as election officers thereby affecting free and fair elections. However, counsel for the election commission argued that no procedure had been violated.
 
 With this, the court has stopped all further processes for holding elections to the remaining 9,258 of the 18,435 primary cooperative societies in the third and fourth phases.
 
 The election commission had on March 5 announced four-phase elections to 18,435 primary cooperative societies that come under the state’s 15 departments.
 
 Accordingly, elections were held to 4,698 societies in phase 1 and 4,479 societies in phase 2. It was scheduled to conduct elections to 4,531 societies in phase 3 on April 16 and 4,727 societies in the last phase on April 23.
 
 The DMK MLA sought the court’s intervention to declare the elections conducted as unconstitutional and unenforceable and a direction to the state’s co-operation department to hold it in a free and fair manner.
 
 When the cases came up for hearing before the division bench of justices C T   and A M  , the counsels for the petitioners said that the cooperative societies election commission had failed to follow due procedure in holding the elections.
 
 The commission had not conducted any election but made only selection, the petitioners said.
 
 After hearing both sides, the bench directed the cooperative societies election commission to file a report and ordered status quo.
 
 The order would also mean that the nominations accepted on Monday till noon would not be scrutinised till further notice. The case has been adjourned to April 11.
 
