NEW DELHI: Six people were injured after a dumper overloaded with   overturned on the   they were travelling in early on Wednesday on  . The occupants of the cab were pulled out of the wreckage after two hours. They are being treated at a private hospital. The   driver has been detained for questioning. The accident led to massive   for over two hours on both carriageway of the national highway.

 The accident occurred near Rangpuri village around 7.15am while the dumper tried to overtake another vehicle on the carriageway going towards Gurugram, DCP (southwest) Milind Dumbere said.
 
 The cab driver, Mohommad Umar (25), told police that he tried to drive away from the toppling truck, but rammed into the road divider in the process. The cab was crushed under the heavy load of sand. The injured passengers have been identified as Sanjay Kumar (38), Dukhi Mehto (77), Parmeshwari Devi (75), Akhilesh (26) and Sunita (46). The family had boarded the cab around 6.30am from New Delhi railway station to go to Kapashera village.
 
 “When the cab reached Rangpuri, a traffic cop signalled the driver to stop for checking. As the cab was slowing down, a speeding dumper hit it from behind. The dumper then overturned and covered the cab with sand,” said a police officer.
 
 Locals soon rushed to help and a crane was also called in by police to rescue the victims. “The rescue operation lasted two hours after which the victims were rushed to a hospital. The cab driver was discharged after first aid. The other five are still undergoing treatment. Their condition is stable and they have been kept under observation,” the officer added.
 
 The accident also resulted in a long traffic jam that lasted over two hours. Vehicles going towards Kapashera and Gurugram were stuck till a heavy crane reached the spot and lifted the truck out of the way. The debris and the damaged vehicle had blocked two lanes in the middle of the road. Curious onlookers blocked the road on the opposite carriageway as many of them stopped to click photographs of the accident.
 
 “I had to wait at the Sanjay T-point for nearly half an hour before I could take a turn towards Gurugram. The stretch was chock-a-block as there were over 10,000 vehicles on the stretch during the peak hours,” said Abhishek Singh, an MNC executive.
 
 
