Vadodara: While the Gorwa police and crime branch sleuths intensified their search for Devkishan Katadiya (Ahir), the final-year MBBS student of GMERS Medical College in Gotri, who is missing since March 10, the college authorities on Tuesday sought police protection for junior students whose movements are being allegedly confined by some outside elements.

 In fact, perturbed by the allegations of biasness levelled against them, all the faculties of the college unanimously passed a resolution threatening to refrain from all the exams in future if such pressure continues on them. This year, the college has achieved record result of 93 % in the final year of MBBS.
 
 After receiving complaints from first-year MBBS students that they were not being allowed to attend their classes by some people who are constantly camping on the premises, the college authorities sought police protection for the students.
 
 “Since the matter has taken a political turn, the students are living under constant fear,” said a college official.
 
 Cops from Gorwa police station too paid a visit to the college and assured Dr Minoo Patel, dean of GMERS Medical College that no student will be harmed or threatened by anyone. 
 
 Police sources said that the student could be near his native – Gir-Somnath – where his extended family lives. A police official said that they will be able to find him soon.
 
 Meanwhile, Katadiya’s mark sheet, which TOI has accessed, reveals that he has actually passed in the viva exam which was conducted by Dr Ashish Shah, the head of department of gynaecology. In his two page letter that he had left before he went missing, Katadiya had claimed that Shah had failed him in the viva exam.
 
 The final year student however has failed in the practical exams of surgery and obstetrics and gynaecology subjects – which were evaluated by a panel of external faculties.
 
 “During our meeting, all the faculties were of the opinion that we will not give in to any kind of pressure. If such allegations will continue, we will refrain from conducting examination,” said Dr Mukesh Dinkar, who heads the GMERS Medical College Teachers’ Association which comprises of 132 teachers including professors, associate and assistant professors and tutors.
 
 
