THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology ( ) has launched a new project christened 'Vision 2030', to equip the institute for new challenges in the field of medical technology. The project will utilize the fund, Rs 350 crore, sanctioned by department of science and technology for the research activities. 

 Designed as a mission mode programme, it has set a target of transfer of 40 successful technologies, 100 patents and 500 scientific publications.
 
 "A regenerating centre in artificial organ scheme will be started, where initially cornea, liver and bone constructs will be developed by 2030. A perspective plan of the Vision 2030 will be prepared after discussion with the doctors, scientist engineers and technical expertise," said Asha  , director of SCTIMST.
 
 The institute, which focuses on medical technologies related to heart and brain, will be explore other areas such as orthopaedic, age-related ailments, artificial organ development, exoskeleton and IT enabled service as part of the project.
 
 "To take up challenging projects, we need to understand the diseases in the country. We will be studying the route documents of health statistics from   (WHO), agenda for sustainable development of United Nations, National Health Policy, science technology innovation policy of Government of India and Technology Information Forecasting and Assessment Council to prepare our project. And we require new skill sets and manpower, infrastructure and equipment for the project," added Kishore.
 
 A combination devices''= (drug within a device) block for infrastructure improvement and training school for technical faculty are also proposed in the project. A fund of Rs 55 crore has been sanctioned for building the infrastructure.
 
 The institute requires around 42 scientists and engineers and 40 technical staff, of which 70% of the recruitment has been already sanctioned for the preparation phase.Kishore also highlighted the need for a regulatory authority for testing medical devices.
 
 
