MADURAI: Local people came in droves to meetings addressed by   Haasan or to places he visited on Wednesday - be it A P J  's residence and the memorial or towns like Ramanathapuram and Paramakudi, en route to Madurai for launching his party. However, most of them seemingly had come to see Kamal the film star, not the politician.

 They had come to see him rather than hear what he had to say. It’s another issue that the actor too did not speak much anywhere. “Sekkasevelnu irukaaru,” (very fair) was how a woman described him on the phone to someone, outside Kalam memorial. That's how MGR was seen by the womenfolk of   and they remained his hardcore vote base till the end.
 
  
  
 
 “Can’t you people move aside, so that we can have a good look at him,” a group of burkha-clad women in front of Kalam's residence were seen telling those ahead of them. None obliged.
 
 “Vella velernu (very fair) irukaaru,” exclaimed an aged admirer, jostling to have a closer look. “People like him (Kamal) had totally forgotten this place and are suddenly remembering their origin. He should have adopted at least something here,” said a tea vendor in Ramanathapuram, even as Kamal Haasan was addressing the crowd as “my people”.
 
  
  
 
 The crowd was mostly mixed; young and old, men and women and youth. Adding to the crowd and chaos were the innumerable vehicles of the actor’s fans who had come from various districts across the state - from   to   and Karur to Coimbatore.
 
 “He worked hard as an actor. He will work harder as a politician now,” says  , a youth from Karur. “A change will come and we are sure about it. He will fill in the vacuum,” says Ponraj, a fan club coordinator from Virudhunagar.
 
 Almost all the fans TOI spoke to were unanimous in saying that they have come on their own and at their own expense. “This make-shift stage being constructed would cost close to Rs 50,000. The local office bearers, though not wealthy, pooled in resources. Nothing came from the head office which had reportedly allotted about Rs 10 lakh for the main stage in Madurai,” said Malarmaindhan, fan club coordinator at Paramakudi. It is another matter that Kamal did not even get on that stage in Paramakudi on Wednesday.
 
 “We were keen to fund, but he said ‘no’,” says C K Kumaravel, founder, Naturals Spa & Beauty chain, who has joined hands with Kamal Haasan. “We were even asked not to mobilise crowds for the main meeting in Madurai. He wanted people to come on their own. The thought may look utopian, but that’s the change that all of us are looking for in Tamil Nadu,” says  , another of Kamal’s core team member, who was a top television executive earlier.
 
 
