Q. Recently, you had said cops have been issuing ID cards for citizens and visiting them at home. I rang up the number 1090 and even attached 020 to it. I was told the number was invalid. Also, where is the ID card available? Should it be downloaded? The cops are not visiting senior citizens either. I personally checked at   police chowky and they said if I have a problem, I should ring up. Isn’t that what everyone is supposed to do? ( )

 A. Senior citizens, particularly those staying alone, must register their names at the concerned police station. For an ID card, you will have to file an application at the police station or at the senior citizens’ cell of the Pune police, giving relevant details such as name, address, photo etc. All of our police stations have appointed nodal officers and they do visit residences of senior citizens whose names have been registered. The 1090 helpline number is functional round-the-clock. The elderly can also contact the city police control room using the number 100. Also, Pune police will be launching its “Amchi Aaji-Ajoba” scheme in the first week of April.
 
 
  
 
 Q. Higher fines are the best way to tackle traffic violations. But we need government approval for that. Why can’t the Pune police crack down on teenagers driving or riding without licences? Traffic offences should start reflecting on mark sheets. ( )
 
 A. The Regional Transport Office, Pune, registered more than 11,500 vehicles on Gudi Padwa. On an average, between 500 and 700 vehicles are added to our roads every day. But road infrastructure is poor. There is also a lack of traffic awareness among parents. The parents allow kids to drive or ride even if they don’t have licences or helmets. Schools and colleges are also not paying adequate attention to teenagers brining two-wheelers without valid licences to campus.
 
 Q. Do you believe citizens must organise themselves into small groups to monitor traffic or crime in their areas? These groups could even issue “citizen notices” to people with wrong number plates or loud silencers. These groups could then refer the matter to courts or take monthly summaries to the police. ( )
 
 A. I would appreciate if citizens of Pune came forward to monitor traffic in their areas. We can discuss modalities of the idea on any working day next week. Also, Pune police will soon be starting a “Thank You” campaign for people following traffic rules. Even the concept of the best driver will be implemented for those who have not violated even a single traffic rule. We do need citizens to be our traffic ambassadors to make Pune smarter and safer.
 
