GURUGRAM: Motorists and passersby outside   heave a sigh of relief whenever they see a 59-year-old guard in uniform moves his hands like a trained traffic constable and blows whistle to stop the movement of vehicles.

 Dharmaveer Vats, a security guard in a private company, spends his spare time to manage traffic at Udyog Vihar Phase2-3 T-point. 
 
 Over the years, his 12-hour duty as a guard has grown to encompass a job that also ensures that traffic flows smoothly at the T-junction right outside the gate of his office he stands guard.
 
 “There have been many occasions when I was not able to reach work due to traffic jams on Shankar Chowk road intersection. I felt the need to do something to reach work and return home on time,” said Vats when asked what inspired him to start doing this. His considerate nature is not the only thing that made him add the traffic duty to his job. The nearly 60-year- old man’s need for peace while at work was another factor. Traffic noise right outside his office gate is too much for him to bear and so he volunteered to manage the traffic in the area.
 
 A resident of Palam village, Vats has been working with Smec India Private Limited as a guard for nearly two-and-a-half years. His shift lasts from 8am to 8pm. Though the   have appointed a constable to manage traffic, peak hour jams are not a one man’s job. 
 
 “I consider the job done if the traffic is streamlined. I always carry a whistle in my pocket and the company where I’m employed has no issue with me managing traffic in my spare time. So I carry on. Plus the peak hour traffic is too much for anyone to handle,” said Vats. Though he has no formal training in traffic rules, he tries his best to get the vehicles moving. Vats also believe that his traffic duty keeps him physically and mentally fit. “Managing traffic has helped me remain fit as it is quite a workout. In fact, I have heard of the traffic policeman Ranjeet Singh from Indore who often makes dance moves while doing his job. I want to learn a few steps from him so that I can enjoy more what I do,” he added.
 
 
