NEW DELHI: State-owned India Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC) may soon check out of The Ashok, Delhi, paving way for a professional hospitality group to run it. While   will not be sold off (like Air India), the government is examining options of who should run it to ensure a more professional approach like the one in Taj, ITC Maurya and the Leela.

 Asked if ITDC would continue running The Ashok,  , MoS (independent charge) tourism, told TOI on Monday, “There are some other proposals (with us). Unless I have the approval of the Cabinet, I will not be able to reveal what they are. There is no proposal to sell or lease it. We are trying to work out other model that the Cabinet has to decide. Once it takes a call, I will able to reveal what is proposed to be done.”
 
 The Modi administration is of the view that “the government should not run hotels”. Earlier, it had decided to sell off 14 of 16 loss-making India Tourism Development Corporation hotels for the same reason. The two hotels not on this list are Ashok and its adjoining Samrat.
 
 The Ashok’s location — 25 acres in prime Chanakyapuri surrounded by diplomatic enclave, Nehru Park and PM House — makes it highly sensitive and possibly too expensive for any hospitality chain to buy it outright. To put things into perspective, the Leela hotels had bought a 3-acre plot in Chanakyapuri (about 2km from Ashok) in 2007 for a record Rs 611 crore — making it the most expensive land bought for hotel in the country at that time. The 25 acres of Ashok is at a more prime location.
 
 Ashok is in the VVIP NDMC areas where hotels like Taj Mansingh have been run by top companies while the ownership remains with the civic agency. Buying hugely expensive land and then constructing a hotel can drive any big hospitality chain almost bankrupt. In such a situation, hospitality industry sources said, the management contract could be an option where the ownership of the hotel remains with the government but a big name runs it professionally.
 
 The Ashok has 550 rooms, including 389 rooms; 160 suites and a presidential suite. The property has about 350 regular ITDC employees — down from 1,800 in its heydays. Combining the trainees and contractual employees, this number goes up to 550-600, said a hotel official. ITDC runs the hotel in entirety barring three restaurants, including a pub that is run by private players like Sagar Ratna.
 
 “This property is doing very well and is making profits. In 2016-17 fiscal, the Ashok posted its highest ever turnover of Rs 152.9 crore,” said an official. 
 
 The Ashok was built 62 years ago when Pandit Nehru decided to host a UNESCO conference in Delhi.
 
 
