NAGPUR: Nana  , former MP of   who resigned and joined Congress, has pulled out from the race for candidate in by-election of Bhandara-Gondia Lok Sabha seat. BJP has finalized Hemant Patle, former MLA from Goregaon in Gondia district, and NCP-Congress alliance pitched in former MLA from Tumsar Madhukar Kukade.

 Patle will submit nomination at Gondia on Wednesday where guardian minister Chandrashekar Bawankule, MLC Parinay Fuke and others will be present.
 
 Patole, along with his 2014 election rival and NCP senior leader Praful Patel, has organized a meeting of Congress and NCP on Wednesday at Bhandara. They will officially announce the candidature of Kukade, who will submit nomination at Bhandara on Thursday, which is the last date for filing nominations.
 
 This means that four-time MP from the seat Patel and immediate past MP Patole will not be seen in fray. One of the two is likely to contest in next general election from this seat.
 
 Patole told TOI, AICC president Rahul Gandhi gave him responsibility to ensure victory of NCP-Congress alliance candidate. “It was NCP’s seat as per arrangements of 2014. Therefore, Congress decided to continue with the same pattern. Now it is my responsibility to ensure victory of our candidate,” he said. A couple of days ago, Patole had gone to New Delhi and met Gandhi.
 
 Belonging to   (pohar), Patle was MLA from BJP between 2004 and 2009. He had to take back seat with delimitation of assembly constituencies in 2009. It will be a huge task for Patle to retain the seat for his party. He surpassed some strong names like Khushal Bopche, Shishupal Patle and Dada Tichkule for the ticket.
 
 Also from OBC (kunbi), Kukade was MLA from BJP for three consecutive terms between 1995 and 2004 from Tumsar. He lost election in 2009 from BJP. He was denied ticket by BJP in 2014. He fought from NCP but lost.
 
 Scrutiny of the nominations will be done on May 11 followed by withdrawal on May 14. Polling will be done on May 28 and result will be declared on May 31.
 
 
