PATNA: Chief minister  , deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, health minister   were among the seven candidates who filed their nomination papers on Monday for the state legislative council election for 11 seats. Others who filed their papers were former Union minister Sanjay Paswan of BJP, Rameshwar Mehta and   from JD(U) and Prem Chandra Mishra of Congress. The four nominees of the grand alliance, including former CM Rabri Devi, had already filed their papers last week. 

 Monday was the last day for the filing of nomination papers. As no 12th candidate is in the ring, they all will be declared elected unopposed on April 19, the last day for the withdrawal of names. 
 
 While Mehta and Anwar are the fresh faces of JD(U), it would be the third term for their president and CM Nitish in the council. From the BJP, Modi will also have his third term while Pandey will represent his party for the second time in the Upper House. 
 
 Rabri, along with her state party president Ram Chandra Purbey and fresh face Syed Khurshid Mohammad Mohsin, as well as  , son of former CM and Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular founder Jitan Ram Manjhi, will represent the RJD in the council.
 
 Interestingly, of the 11 seats for which election was scheduled on April 26, the six belonged to the JD(U), four to the BJP and one to the RJD. The outcome has resulted in the loss of three seats to the JD(U), one to the BJP and gains of two seats to the RJD and one each to the Congress and HAM(S). Through the selection of their nominees, the parties concerned appear to have done subtle political messaging for their constituencies, observers feel.
 
 In fielding Mehta and Anwar, Nitish has tried to accommodate the political aspirations of the Kushwaha caste among the MBCs, besides addressing concerns of Muslims regarding their political representation. “The candidates were selected taking into account their ‘kabiliyat’ (efficiency and utility), and also their association with the party,” state JD(U) president Bashistha Narain Singh said.
 
 Both Mehta and Anwar have business concerns in Delhi and, by their admission, have also been associated with the JD(U). Observers said Anwar was also among the organizers of the ‘Deen bachao, desh bachao’ conference held here on Sunday and his selection was done on the same night.
 
 The political circles feel the BJP leadership selected Sanjay Paswan to mollify the frayed tempers of the dalit groups against the BJP and to also “keep in reserve a Paswan caste leader” if Union minister and   (LJP) chief walked out of the NDA in the months before the next parliamentary election, putting the saffron party on the slippery turf.
 
 Further, from the point of view of the BJP, it became necessary because CM Nitish had already announced inclusion of the Paswan caste in the Mahadalit category to cement his bond with Ram Vilas, the LJP chief. 
 
 
