NEW DELHI: Taking it upon themselves to manage the piles of   in   rather than leave the task to the  , several   have created   to keep their localities clean while producing their own mulch for parks and gardens.

 "Burning leaves inside the colony is unimaginable,” declares   at Defence Colony. “We have a large number of neem trees, and the compost that we produce from their leaves is especially enriched and prevents plants from being attacked by pests.” 
 
 Talwar began the project in 2004 when there were no online groups or resources available to help in an effort.
 
 Defence Colony has set up six brick pits and each churns out around 300kg of organic compost every three months. “Ours is a self-sustaining model. We sell the compost at Rs10 per kilo, most of it to colony residents who appreciate its high quality,” says Talwar. 
 
 Residents of Dwarka’s Sector 6 too created four composting pits last year. “We started them at around this time last year when a lot of dry leaves is available. We plan to extend this exercise to other parks,” discloses V Selvarajan, president of NGO Greencircle, which started this project. According to him, residents and NGO members coordinate activities through WhatsApp.
 
 Another colony using technology to manage green waste is east Delhi’s Pushpanjali. Priyanka Dev, a waste segregation enthusiast, says they have installed a wire-mesh leaf collector in the park there for composting and employ WhatsApp to periodically remind like-minded people in the area to collect plant waste and deposit them at the composting area. “Our compositing unit has just reached its full capacity and we have no more space for leaves. We expect a good yield before the planting season begins,” said Dev.
 
 Dev added, “We have briefed the garbage collectors about segregation and composting, but I don’t think the municipal corporation has the infrastructure to deal with green waste. Everything reaches the landfill.” 
 
 Meanwhile, residents at   are using vermi-composting to produce organic manure at their park. Tree leaves collected in six pits are processed into compost by earthworms in a matter of months.
 
 
