South Bengaluru’s BTM (Byrasandra, Tavarekere and Madiwala) Layout, represented by none other than home minister R Ramalinga Reddy, is a constituency of stark contrasts. It is the preferred destination for the upwardly mobile, notwithstanding the slums that jostle next to tony localities and tech hubs.

 While pockets like startup hub Koramangala and BTM Layout boast swank shopping malls, bungalows and restaurants, shantytowns like Ejipura and Suddagunte Palya make up the underbelly of the Silicon Valley of India.
 
 
 Given the socio-economic disparities in this area, issues faced by locals, too, are disparate. But traffic bottlenecks remain the biggest problem across the constituency.
 
 “Some headway has been made in terms of improving infrastructure and removing traffic blocks, but a lot remains to be done,” says Harish K, manager of a private bank and a resident of Koramangala.
 
 BJP has fielded tainted mining baron G Janardhana Reddy’s nephew G Lallesh Reddy, a political greenhorn. Initially, the contest was being dubbed as a David vs Goliath affair but closer to polls, Lallesh seems to be giving a tough fight to Ramalinga, who is set to enter the assembly for the seventh time.
 
 “Despite winning the constituency twice and wielding powerful portfolios like transport and home, Ramalinga has failed to give the constituency its due. Several areas get flooded when it rains. People are looking to a youngster like me to change their lives for
 
 the better, by ensuring quality water, good roads and a sewage system. People are also fed up of Ramalinga Reddy’s politics of caste, money and muscle power,’’ says Lallesh.
 
 Ramalinga was initially focused more on daughter Soumya Reddy’s campaign in neighbouring Jayanagar. But after the Jayanagar election was countermanded due to a candidate’s death, he is concentrating on his constituency. “I am confident of winning because people in my constituency feel our leader HD Kumaraswamy will be the next CM and it would help the development of constituency if I am voted to power,” says K Devadas, JD(S) candidate.
 
 Ramalinga’s supporters claim their leader has done his best as minister. “It’s not just work that matters to him. His low-profile, humble image and accessibility are his plus points. Lallesh’s uncle Janardhana Reddy joining the campaign will only help us,” a supporter said.
 
 
