HYDERABAD: The introduction of 24-hour, three-phase power supply in all villages has boosted industrial activity across  . Several districts which were earlier neglected by businesspersons are seeing an inflow of investment due to assurance on the power front. It has also markedly changed the lifestyle of residents, with thousands of people purchasing air-conditioners.

  
 A recent study by discoms showed a rise in domestic and industrial power consumption as several industrialists are setting up small and medium units in rural areas. This is particularly visible in most backward districts such as Adilabad, Asifabad, Mahabubabad, Mahbubnagar and Kothagudem, where the land prices are cheap. Availability of cheap labour is an added attraction that is pulling in fresh investments.
 
 Sources in the industries department said that they are overwhelmed with the response from industrialists for setting up new units in most backward districts. “We received more than 4,000 new enquiries for fresh investments in  , which is unprecedented,” said sources.
 
 “Self-employment units also coming up in the villages with the availability of power. Youth who have some technical skill and a diploma are looking to open their own ventures in the villages. Rice mills, granite polishing, pumps and motors repair, floor mills, welding units and service centres are coming up with the introduction of   supply,” said a senior official of energy department.
 
 Across the country, only Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, West Bengal and Telangana supply 24-hour power to rural areas. Rural households in nine out of 28 states — Arunachal Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana, Jammu & Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Mizoram, Sikkim and   — receive less than 18 hours of power a day.
 
 Till recently, urban areas, particularly cities such as Karimnagar, Warangal, Nizamabad and Khammam were attracting new industries due to availability of power and other infrastructure. But as the expenditure of setting up business increased in the urban areas, industrialists have started looking at backward districts.
 
 
