MOHALI: Former chairman of Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) Ravinder Pal Singh Sidhu alias Ravi Sidhu was on Monday sentenced to seven years of rigorous imprisonment in the disproportionate assets case. He was handed the sentenced by special vigilance bureau court judge Monika Goyal under sections 7 and 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act in  .

 The court also slapped a fine of Rs 75 lakh on Sidhu and to further undergo one year’s rigorous if the fine is not paid. Sidhu has been lodged in   jail. He was convicted on January 11 by the court. However, Sidhu, a former journalist, was acquitted of various other sections, including forgery, using as genuine a forged document, criminal breach of trust by a public servant, and criminal conspiracy.
 
 
 
 
 The sentence was pronounced at around 4.15 pm on Monday. Sidhu and five others were booked at the vigilance bureau police station at Mohali on March 25, 2002. The other five were acquitted by the court.
 
 Sidhu had already spent 26 months in jail before he was bailed out in 2004. The court held that of the total sentence, the part spent by Sidhu in jail will be deducted, and he will have to spend roughly 58 more months behind bars.
 
 Sidhu is already undergoing a seven-year sentence after being convicted in the cash-for-jobs scam case in April 2015 and was slapped a fine of Rs one crore at the time. In November 2002, the court of a special judge in Ropar had framed charges against him in the trap and disproportionate asset cases registered against him by the state vigilance bureau.
 
 However, Sidhu has already got bail from high court in the 2015 sentence and will probably seek bail in Monday's sentence as well after six months of jail, his counsel said.
 
 The vigilance bureau had caught Sidhu on March 25, 2002, while allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 5 lakh from an excise inspector,   Singh at his Sector 39 flat in Chandigarh. The bribe was part of the amount of Rs 40 lakh to be paid for Bhupjit’s selection as a   (PCS) officer.
 
 The investigators had recovered Rs 9.57 crore in cash, Rs 8.99 crore in his bank accounts, shares and debentures, and properties that were conservatively valued at Rs 12.93 crore.
 
 Earlier, the allegations of trading question papers of Punjab Police and civil services for money by prospective candidates were levelled against Sidhu. He was just over 40 and had no record of public service when he was appointed as PPSC chairman in 1996 by then   chief minister Harcharan Singh Brar. Before taking over as the commission's chief, Sidhu, an alumus of Delhi's prestigious St Stephen's College, had worked as a journalist in two English dailies.
 
 
 
