MUMBAI: Usually quiet in celebration,   was surprisingly ecstatic upon reaching his century against Pakistan in the semifinal of the U-19  . One could not comprehend whether the reaction was a result of relief upon reaching the three-digit mark after scoring three fifties or simply the joy of scoring against arch-rivals Pakistan. Gill, who was named player of the tournament, said he celebrated because he was being sledged a little too much.

 The Punjab top-order batsman, who scored 372 runs in the tournament, said he wasn’t able to control his emotions. “At the start they were sledging a little which was all right. I expect opponents to sledge a little so I wasn’t too bothered by it. But after we lost a few wickets, they started sledging too much which was frustrating for me. That’s why I celebrated like that,” he said on Monday, after the team arrived in Mumbai from New Zealand.
 
 And how did they celebrate their title triumph? Gill says the entire team danced the night away. “We danced to all kinds of music. Punjabi, English and Hindi songs. We even forced Rahul (Dravid) sir to dance,” he said with a laugh.
 
 Being U19 champions has put the spotlight firmly on the youngsters, but it has also put them under pressure as they are vexpected to replicate this success at the senior level. Gill says he’s already prepared for it mentally. The fact that he was picked up by   for Rs. 3.2 crore in the IPL auctions means that there’s a lot of expectations on his shoulders. But Gill said that he’s going to approach the tournament the same way he approached the World Cup — by only thinking how he can contribute better.
 
 “Rahul (Dravid) sir told us to concentrate on batting till the end in every match, to just concentrate on doing our best. That’s what I’m going to do in the IPL too. Yes, I know that I will be under a little pressure because we won the tournament, but all that is before I walk in to bat. Once I’m in the middle, I only concentrate on scoring and not getting out,” he said.
 
 While we got to see the boisterous side of the team with the way they defeated their opponents, Gill divulged that their last team meeting in Auckland was quite an emotional one.
 
 “We’ve been together for more than 15 months so naturally we’ve got to know each other pretty well. The day after we won, it suddenly dawned on us that we might not play with each other again. So, our last team meeting was really emotional. Even the support staff was emotional,” he said.
 
 
