JAIPUR/KOTA: A state government panel, headed by the chairman of the   ( ), on Wednesday sealed the office and a room of   and associated institutions in Dadwana area under   police station of the city.

 Despite repeated notices and the panel’s visit to the institution, the mission management had failed to produce the registration papers and other relevant documents.
 
 The panel on Wednesday sealed an administrative room and office of the mission.
 
 “It’s mandatory for childcare homes to be registered as per the   Justice Act. But here, we found that it has been registered under the Cooperative Societies Act. Also, the management failed to produce documents which we demanded, including details of dates of admission of children and by whom,” said Harish  , chairman, CWC, Kota.
 
 On directions from the state government, a probe panel was formed to verify registration papers, other relevant documents and physical verification of Emmanuel Mission and associated institutions in Kota.
 
 In a written declaration in 2016, the mission had claimed it was not running any orphanage. But it was reported to be running two orphanages. Following this, the state government ordered a panel to be formed to probe the matter, Gurbaxani said, adding that the panel had sent two notices to the mission for producing relevant papers. But the mission management ignored both the notices.
 
 On Monday, the panel visited the mission head office in   area and its premises where a cluster of offices managing several other institutions were also found.
 
 Suspected registrations of 19 minor girls and 30 boys were also found during the search. The mission staff and management refused to provide any papers and registration records and information on the children living in the orphanages, Gurbaxani said.
 
 The registration of the mission under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) was concealed in 2007, he said.
 
 The panel visited the mission headquarters again on Tuesday and handed over a list of required documents to be verified. But the staff instead tore the list and failed to disclose their identity and designation in the institution, he added.
 
 
