CHENNAI: For much of the last two years,   must have been consumed by oodles of doubt whether he still has it in him in the cut-throat surroundings of the IPL. Towards the end of a disastrous season for Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) last year, the Australian allrounder had himself admitted that he'd had his worst   ever and wasn't entirely sure what the future held. Having managed just 71 runs in eight matches at a paltry average of 11.83 in 2017 and 179 runs at 13.76 the year before that, Watson's sentiments were completely understandable at the time.

 
 
 
 
 All of that, though, seems a distant memory now. Having finished fifth in the run-getters list with 555 runs including a match-winning 117* in the final against   on Sunday, Watson has shown that there is still plenty of cricket left in him. Ten years ago, Watson's heroics for   in their title-winning season had revived the 36-year-old's international career. As   reflect on their latest triumph, Watson's efforts this season might just help him prolong his career as a T20 globetrotter.
 
 While Watson can now heave a sigh of relief, the last one year must not have been easy. For a cricketer who had spent the last decade dominating the IPL as well as international attacks around the world, the steep decline in form over the last couple of years must have been a bitter pill to swallow.
 
 "It's just been a special season. To get an opportunity after my previous year at RCB was incredible. The support I have got from CSK to be able to contribute at the top has been amazing," he said after the final on Sunday.
 
 
 
 
 Watson certainly has to be lauded for the effort he has put in to still win matches single-handedly at this stage of career, but CSK deserve their share of credit as well. At the IPL auction in January, it was CSK who started the bidding at Rs 1 crore and sustained it till the very end. And then, they optimised Watson's strengths by making him bat at the top of the order against the hard new ball instead of shoving him lower down.
 
 As CSK coach   said on the team's return to Chennai on Monday, there was complete conviction on their part of Watson's destructive ability. The Big Bash League, where Watson scored 331 runs for Sydney Thunder, certainly played a part in their decision while his good form in the Pakistan Super League (319 runs) just leading up to the IPL must have done the Aussie's confidence a world of good.
 
 "Our CEO, Kasi Viswanathan, was very fond of Shane. He looks quiet, but he has got some very strong opinions. To add to that, we loved what Shane has done in the past. Our discussion was around his future and we had seen during the Big Bash that his form had returned. We have always liked players that are multi-talented. Shane has hurt CSK a number of times while playing for Rajasthan. We wanted to get him in our side than play against him again. He has been incredibly professional. He has even exceeded my expectations of how professional he is. He realises he has got some limitations, but he was ably managed and looked after himself well. MS   also looked after him. In the end, we didn't need his bowling. He just became a power hitter for us at the top," Fleming observed.
 
 It will only get harder for Watson from here on given that he will turn 37 in a few weeks' time. But as CSK have shown time and again, they have a knack of getting the best out of their players and could do it in the coming season too.
 
