Greater Chennai Corporation officials on Monday seized 431kg meat from vendors who illegally sold it despite a prohibitory orders on account of Tiruvalluvar Day. According to a statement, the city has 2,689 meat shops. “At least 20 shops were kept open and sold meat against the order,” said an official. The highest seizure of 145kg took place at Royapuram (zone 5) . “Only one shop, of the 163 licensed shops, was kept open in Royapuram,” an official said. Of more concern was the illegal street-side sale of meat. In Adyar (zone 13), such sales were in full swing. “We seized 120 kg meat from unlicensed vendors,” the official added, but no action was taken against the vendors. As much as 61kg was seized in Anna Nagar (zone 8) and 50kg in Thiru Vi Ka Nagar (zone 6). Officials confiscated 15kg meat each in Teynampet (zone 9) and Kodambakkam (zone 10) and 25kg in Manali (zone 2). The seized meat would be destroyed, said officials.

 CMRL conducts magic show: Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) on Tuesday conducted a magic show and competitions at Vadapalani and Alandur stations. As part of the Chennai Metro Rail Pongal Kondattam – 2018 at Vadapalani station, drawing and essay competitions were held for children. Certificates were distributed to winners and all participants. The themes of the drawing competition were Free Style, Chennai – 2025 and Cashless Economy. Games like jumping castle, picking coins from mirror and a magic show were also arranged. At Alandur station, a rangoli competition was held and prizes were distributed to winners and participants. Around 300 children took part at both stations.
 
 Guv shocked at death of political analyst Gnani: Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Tuesday expressed shock on the demise of senior journalist Gnani Sankaran. “I am shocked to know about the demise of Gnani Sankaran, veteran journalist, writer, and political analyst. He was an independent, fearless journalist who spoke out his mind and never compromised with his principles.”
 
 
