AJMER: Like any other judge, 31-year-old   refers to the court proceedings several times over. However, like them, he does not read through the notes. The first visually impaired judge of Rajasthan, instead, listens to the recorded proceedings. 

 A civil judge and judicial magistrate of Sarwar town of Ajmer district, who lost his eyesight due to glaucoma at the age of 22, Sharma always wanted to be a judge and did not once think of giving up his dream.
 
 "I even approached a coaching centre but they refused to help me. It is my family which helped me all through. My wife, who is a teacher at a government school, read out the books and we maintained a recording of the readings, which I listened to frequently," he says, speaking to TOI. Sharma, who hails from   and studied in a government school, appeared for the 2013 Rajasthan   and cleared it in the first attempt, securing 83rd rank. The   recommended a year's training for him, after which he joined the service in 2016. His first posting was in  , from where he was recently transferred to Sarwar.
 
 Hundreds of advocates come to the court and Sharma claims, he can recognize them all by their footsteps. "Many a times, I sense that advocates and their clients are skeptical and even wonder if a visually impaired man can ensure justice. They seem to forget that even the eyes of the woman of justice are covered. I do justice weighing the facts and merits of a case, just the way it should be," a confident Sharma says.
 
 Sharma uses an e-speak device connected to a computer, which converts and records the notes made by the reader into speech. "When an advocate approaches my court with a petition, I ask him to read the plaint as well as the attached documents. His voice is enough for me to judge his authenticity," says the judge. 
 
 He listens to the recorded arguments made by advocates and statements made by witnesses and clients several times over. "I have to be sure that I don't miss out on anything, which might be crucial for the case," he says.
 
 "The use of technology should be increased in the judicial system so that people who are illiterate can also understand what actually is being done by the court. It will also bring transparency as the illiterate witnesses can later hear their statements given to the court," adds the judge. Managing the staff is a little tough, he accepts, but he does it by evaluating what his reader or clerk is doing or speaking. Sharma says that he is happy that he not only maintained his self-esteem but also proved that nothing can stop a person from fulfilling his dream. "I have no remorse for my disability," he adds. 
 
 
