THANE: The Thane Municipal Corporation ( ) is working on drafting the urban renewal plan for implementing the cluster   plan in the city and is likely to release the first draft soon for suggestions from residents.

 The announcement was made by municipal commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal at a meeting of senior officials on Friday. The commissioner said the work is underway and the officials, along with the expert panel, will soon release a rough draft of the plan for residents following which suggestions and objections from residents will be sought to finalise the same.
 
 “The work on drafting the plan, a prerequisite for implementing the   redevelopment plan in the city, has begun. The focus is on systematic redevelopment of illegal structures and developing adequate basic infrastructure like roads here. The intention is to improve the standard of living of residents staying in that locality,” said Jaiswal. 
 
 There are over 3,500 dilapidated structures that need urgent repairs with many structures already showing signs of wear and tear. In addition nearly 70 per cent of the city has structures that need regularisation, which could possibly have been done through the cluster scheme.
 
 The process entails designing micro development plans for each of the eight cluster stretches identified within the city for implementing the cluster redevelopment project and ensure planned zones complete with all amenities including wide roads. As per plans, the development plan (DP) will have to be designed for each of the zones that will see a planned development post implementation of the cluster project that will factor in increased floor space index and allocation of amenities.
 
 Officials explained the fresh DP would be redrawn as per the urban renewal policy that would mandate the allocation and use of all amenities required. The planning would be easier as the designers will have lots of horizontal space for allocation of amenities and no space would be lost to illegal structures or encroachments as is the present situation. 
 
 The TMC has proposed eight clusters within the city limits, including those at Rabodi, Mumbra, Kalwa, Kisan Nagar, Lokmanya Nagar among others.
 
 
