THANE: The lure of rebates has apparently failed to entice residents of Thane into paying their   in advance as barely Rs 111 cr of the expected Rs 550 cr income from property holders has been deposited in the civic treasury as the deadline for availing tax concessions ends today (Thursday). 

 The municipal corporation had urged residents to clear their tax defaults including the payment of their current year bills by May 31 and avail of around ten percent discount on the general component of their property tax bills. 
 
 However, the lure has apparently failed to generate adequate interest among residents who seem to prefer to defer their payments. While the number of tax receipts was yet to be collated, collectively, around Rs 111 crore was collected at various collection centres spread across the city on Wednesday.
 
 The figures are more or less the same of what was deposited at the end of two months last fiscal too, said  , deputy municipal commissioner in charge of the property tax cell. While the quantum of tax was less last year compared to this, officials said the department was positive about getting few more payments by May 31 midnight when the validity of the incentive scheme ends. 
 
 While those clearing their taxes by May 31, get 10% off on the general component of the tax, those doing so in the next session in June will get around four% off while those making the payments will in July will get three% discount and those making the same in the last leg of the incentive scheme ending August will be given two % concession. It may be noted that the discount will be for the tax amount for the second half of the financial year. 
 
 The discount for early payers was approved by the general body and has been formulated as an incentive for residents who are genuine tax payers. 
 
 Officials informed that the scheme worked well for both the residents and the administration. However, activists expressed no surprise at the lackluster response and claimed that making such announcement wasn’t enough and suggested the administration instead work towards making a difference in the lives of the residents. Many suggested the corporation has to make a difference in the civic amenities like good roads, uninterrupted water, ease of securing civic-related permissions and documents etc. They claim that residents will definitely cooperate if they see value for the money paid as taxes every year. 
 
 “The tax payment seems to be a direct way of gauging the happiness quotient of residents. The citizens must get good water supply, roads, garbage disposal among other facilities before the corporation expects them to pay. People don’t mind paying but they need good services and the corporation must ensure residents that their money is spent well to make them loosen their purse strings and avail of early tax payment,” said a social activist from Thane.
 
 Meanwhile, a positive administration said they were working towards a better tomorrow and said they expect the residents to cooperate. “We are hopeful Thaneites will cooperate and pay their taxes on time. The collection offices at the ward levels will be operative till intervening midnight of Thursday-Friday for convenience of residents who can also pay online,” said a senior civic official. 
 
 We are hopeful Thane residents will cooperate with us and pay their taxes on time. The collection offices at the ward levels will be operative till intervening midnight of Thursday-Friday for convenience of residents who can also pay online
 
 
