PANAJI: In a bid to provide effective and transparent transaction for its services, the upgraded website of the   department was inaugurated on Monday.

 Citizens can now renew their registrations or apply for licences, etc, by merely logging into the departmental website - https://www.goatransport.gov.in/Default. Transactions can be done through an e-portal payment gateway. The website is equipped with central softwares like   4.0,   4.0, etc.
 
 “This is a very important milestone because till now, it was an information-based website and not a transaction-based one. We have now effectively migrated to Vahan and Sarathi (4.0 versions) at the regional transport offices,” said transport director, Nikhil  .
 
 Vahan and Sarathi are conceptualised by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH). The   (NIC) has standardised and deployed the software. Vahan 4.0 entails registration of new vehicles and further transactions pertaining to it. Sarathi 4.0 entails data of licensing details, issuance of licences and further transactions.
 
 “Anyone who has a credit or debit card can use this service. The various forms are also made free and can be downloaded from the website. The user can do everything online up to the payment stage,” Desai said.
 
 To further ensure transparency, 30 POS machines have been distributed in 11 RTOs across the state for e-challan purpose.
 
 All the offences will be listed on this machine which will generate the challan. Violators can pay the fine on the spot using their credit or debit cards, or go to the bank, mention the challan number and pay the fine. This initiative is currently in the work-in-progress stage and will take some time to be fully functional.
 
 “We have ordered 100 machines, and if need be will provide the same technology to traffic police as well,” Desai said. “Since there is no cash handling, there won’t be any allegations against officers as well.” He was responding to questions posed by journalists on the alleged incidents of corruption in the department.
 
 
