LUDHIANA: With the   department of housing and urban development notifying the regularization policy,   constructed before March 19, 2018, have four months— till August— to get registered. Those constructed after the date will be demolished and their colonizers booked. The policy will cover structures within the limits of municipal corporation and  . 

 Within three months of getting regularization certificate, a realtor will have to get the building registered with the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA). 
 
 Glada estate officer (regulatory) Harpreet Singh Sekhon said, “This is perhaps the last chance for colonizers. If they fail to get their colonies regularized, then an FIR will be registered against them and their property will neither get a registry nor water and sewerage connections. The erring realtors can face imprisonment between three and seven years and penalty of Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh.” 
 
 MC assistant town planner (headquarters) S S Bindra said, “The policy has been notified. After getting in-principle approval of MC general house, we will start collecting charges from colonizers. Even as the policy gives Glada and MC three months for scrutiny of documents, we will initiate the process as soon as a realtor applies. If the structure fails to fulfil any of the rules, its case will be rejected and an FIR recommended against the colonizer.” 
 
 
 
 
  Where construction is up to 25%: In this category, area is available for re-planning, so the authority concerned will demarcate the width of roads, spaces for parks and water works, among others, as per norms. Minimum 35% area will be kept for roads and parks, among other facilities. No road in such a colony will be less than 30 feet. Change of land use, external development charges, licence fee and social infrastructure fund will be recovered from the colonizers. 
 
 Where construction is between 25% and 50%: Though such colonies cannot fulfil all norms, the condition of 30 feet wide internal roads, 35% area for open spaces or parks, among others, is a must. 
 
 Where construction is above 50%: In such colonies, width of a road should be at least 20 feet and there should be space for movement of fire tenders and ambulance. Area should be demarcated for water works and green belts, too. 
 
 t. Earlier, the certificate was mandatory for buildings having area more than 250 square yards. 
 
 
 
 GLADA estate officer (regulatory), SDM and executive magistrate will keep a tab on   colonies outside MC limits. Those within civic body limits will be checked by MC assistant commissioner, joint commissioner and executive officer. An erring colonizer will face FIR and a penalty of 20% of the regularization fee.
 
 
 
 The unauthorized colonies developed before April 1, 2013, will be regularized irrespective of the land use. However, those developed after April 1, 2013, will not be regularized if the colony site contravenes the land use proposals of the Master Plan.
 
 
 
 Since money collected from colonizers or plot holders will be spent on the development of colonies, the authorities will maintain a separate account for each colony. The collected funds will be utilized for providing basic amenities there. 
 
 
