JAIPUR: A group of about 100 people gathered at   in the state capital to protest violence on young Dalit boys in Alwar that in just a week claimed two lives. During Holi celebrations at Bhiwadi on March 2, 16-year-old   was beaten to death by a mob after he allegedly objected to music played at celebrations. Just days later, on March 5, 18-year-old Ajay Jatav, a friend of the boy beaten to death, was found charred to death. The protesters submitted a memorandmum to Chief Minister   seeking compensation of Rs25 lakh each to the kin of the two boys. This is more than the sum provided for under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act.

 Teacher  , who was at the protest meeting on Wednesday, said, “These are not random acts of violence. And this is not confined to Alwar in Rajasthan. We know that just today, an Ambedkar statue was desecrated in Meerut. Earlier, vandals brought down a statue of Lenin in Tripura, straight after poll results were declared. The government seems not to act to stem these acts of violence.” 
 
 Social activist Mukesh Nirvasit, who is set to visit the bereaved families in Bhiwadi on Thursday, said, “I have only just spoken to the father of the 16-year-old beaten to death. The Dalit community in the area feels threatened. Is this the India that Gandhi dreamed of? Is this the country we want to live in? This is a government that has no appreciation for the fact that people of different faiths and persuasions have lived in this country in peace for generations. This is a government out to change that history.”
 
 The memorandum to Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje said police failed to arrest the accused in time, leaving them free to roam around and kill the youth who had attempted to save his friend. “Two murders have occurred in the same locality in a matter of days, and this should be investigated by an impartial probe team, specially constituted to get to the bottom of this matter,” the memorandum said.
 
 Collector   said, “I visited the family of the boy who was killed on Holi. Compensation of Rs4 lakh – 50% of the full sum – has been given to the family, as provided for under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. Police are patrolling more closely and I too have visited families who said they were feeling threatened. The case of the boy who was burnt, prima facie, appears not linked to the earlier murder. This boy was in the crowd that gathered later, but it is not true that he attempted to help the 16-year-old. The matter is under investigation.” 
 
 
