Every day as Rakesh  , a 35-year-old businessman based in Chandigarh, leaves office for home, he calls up his wife. “Crush kar ke rakhna,” he tells her. His idea of putting up his feet and unwinding is to roll a joint and draw on it unhurriedly after the work day comes to an end.

 
 In Bengaluru, Manoj Kaushal, 54, rarely consumes alcohol at parties. His friends — retirees like him, and successful professionals and entrepreneurs in their 40s and 50s — prefer to roll joints and smoke up in the privacy of house parties. “In Bengaluru, smoking pot has become quite common and socially accepted. People now keep alcohol just as back-up,” says Kaushal, a retired engineer-MBA-law graduate.
 
 For the longest time, smoking pot in India was associated with dopey college students getting wasted in shady bachelor pads or, with sadhus and hippies in the hills, inseparable from their chillam. Defying this stereotype are older smokers like Marwah and Kaushal who are proactively choosing cannabis over tobacco and alcohol as their preferred intoxicant.
 
  
  
 
 Although consuming cannabis is illegal in India and punishable with a six-month jail term and a hefty fine, its consumption has nevertheless been growing. Delhi ranks third in the world (after New York and  ) in the list of cities with maximum consumption of cannabis per year, according to the 2018 Cannabis Price Index. Delhiites consumed over 38 metric tonnes last year.
 
  
  
 
 “Even in office parties, it’s no big deal if someone rolls a joint,” says Sunny Ghosh, 42-year-old senior VP in a tea export firm. He smokes at least one joint a day. Ghosh is married with a five-year-old son. Is it safe to smoke up and get stoned when there’s a child at home? “I never smoke in front of my son although I drink beer in front of him. I don’t know why I allow one and not the other,” says Ghosh. “Smoking pot stopped being ‘cool’ a decade ago. Now it’s just normal,” says Mahima Pandey, 32, a copy editor in Gurgaon.
 
  
  
 
 “I haven’t heard of one death due to excessive pot smoking. And breathing the air in Delhi is more unsafe than smoking a few joints,” Marwah points out.
 
 In recent years, the clamour to legalise marijuana is growing across the world. The US allows recreational use of weed in seven states. Uruguay, the   and   allow recreational use to some degree. In India, Lok Sabha MP   and Union minister for women and child development   have pushed for legalising its medical use. Biju Janata Dal MP   has publicly spoken about the benefits of legally cultivating marijuana and worn a hemp kurta (non-narcotic) to Parliament to boot. The ban on natural substances, he has stressed, has pushed people to alcohol.
 
 While greater awareness about the ill-effects of tobacco and alcohol seems to be pushing people towards pot, one also has to be aware about pitfalls of chronic marijuana use. Researchers have linked it to lung problems, dependence and early onset of psychosis. 
 
 
 
 
