KOZHIKODE: The District Life   (DLM) is planning to speed up the work of houses that are included under the project by coordinating the workforce under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). The plan is to make use of the manpower for manufacturing cement blocks and other materials required for construction activities.

 The DLM office is planning to complete the construction of all the 7,672 houses identified under the first phase of the mission before May 31. Grama panchayats, municipalities and corporation in the district have so far completed the work of 3,038 houses that are included in the first phase of the project.
 
 “We are trying out different methods to speed up the work,” said P  , district project officer of Life Mission. Easy availability of construction materials after opening a manufacturing unit with the support of   is expected to boost up the work, he added.
 
 According to figures available, 517 houses under construction have reached lintel level and 520 houses have reached roof level. The work of remaining houses is also progressing. 
 
 The beneficiaries of various central and state government-aided housing schemes, who had dropped out from the project owing to various reasons, are included in the first phase of the project. The government is planning to complete the work of all such dropped out houses by May-end.
 
 According to statistics, the grama panchayats in the district have completed the work of 1,010 houses of the total 1,962 houses in its limits. The scheduled tribe department has completed 145 out of 352 houses, block panchayats have completed 1,258 houses out of 3,472 houses. The city corporation has succeeded in completing only 145 houses out of the 352 houses under its jurisdiction.
 
 The construction of houses under   is a task requiring perseverance of local body leaders and officials, said the project officer. 
 
 As the beneficiary also need to contribute toward the completion of work, the economic status of the beneficiary is a decisive factor, he said.
 
 However, some local bodies are displaying exemplary determination in completing the work, the official said. 
 
 The Vadakara block panchayat has completed the work of all houses in its limit, whereas Koorachundu grama panchayat has completed 48 out of 50 houses in its limit, he added.
 
 The second phase of the Life Mission project will be launched soon across the state. 
 
 According to figures, over 9,000 people, who own land but do not have a  , have approached local bodies seeking assistance for constructing house.
 
 “We need to scrutinize the application after detailed inquiry before starting the second phase of the work,” the official added.
 
 
