KOLKATA:   has survived the car crash on   with minor bruises but the last moments with her friends keep coming back. While she can’t believe she has got a second shot at life, the thought that she will have to live with those gory images is sending shivers down her spine.   shares her thoughts with TOI.

 When I made myself comfortable in the back seat on Sunday evening, I had no idea that this will be my last outing with my friends Tumpa and  . We were so excited about the trip to Belgharia that we had started planning a trip to Digha during Holi.
 
 But Sunday’s plan was fixed all of a sudden when Farhan called me up at 6.30pm and said that he could manage to get his brother-in-law’s car for the night. I immediately started to get ready. As decided, Farhan arrived at   to pick us up at 8pm. Tumpa sat beside him and I slipped into the back seat. Farhan switched on the music and we started grooving. We were headed to a friend’s place in Belgharia off BT Road who had invited us for his birthday. We were having so much fun that Tumpa insisted on a Digha trip. Farhan said he will speak to his brother-in-law, the owner of the car.
 
 The party was very nice where we met many of our old friends. We were having a good time when Tumpa’s father called her up at midnight to ask where she was. A little later, even my mother called me up but we were having so much fun that we decided to stay on for some more time.
 
 When we finally started for our homes a little after 3.15pm, we were very tired. I dozed off as soon as I sat on the back seat. Even Farhan was very tired. We were on the road for only a few minutes when the car jerked badly and there was a deafening sound. As I slipped into unconsciousness, I saw the rear portion of a truck smashing the windscreen and hitting my friends. I could not spot their heads. I felt something pricking me in the face, neck and shoulder. When I gained consciousness, I was in the hospital and my parents and others were standing around me. My whole body was in unbearable pain. I fainted again when they told me about the death of my friends. I wish we had not taken the risk and stayed home. My friends would have been alive today. 
 
 
