BENGALURU: An uneasy calm prevails in Bhatkal assembly constituency on the border of   and Uttara Kannada districts. Schisms that surfaced in 1993– when Bhatkal town saw the first major instance of communal riots – have deepened further and are likely to influence the outcome. Money power could also play some role.

 
 
  
 
 BJP’s cyber soldiers have unleashed messages on social media asking Hindu youths to mobilize against   candidate Mankala Subba Vaidya. This comes in the backdrop of a leak that Majlis-e-Islah-o-Tanzeem, an NGO that represents a majority of Muslims in the constituency, had received inputs from about 50 jamaats that they will not support JD(S). Enayatullah Shabandri, the JD(S) aspirant and runner-up in the last poll, exited from the race.
 
 Usually, Tanzeem announces its support a day before the polls. But the early development this time has given   the muchneeded ammunition to counter Congress.
 
 The constituency has about 1.1 lakh Hindu votes, of which Namdharis constitute about 72,000. Muslims constitute the next largest voter base at 52,000 and the rest are fishermen belonging to different castes, mainly Ambigas, Gabit, Harikantras, Kharvis, Mogers and Pagis.
 
 BJP believes that division of Hindu votes, especially of Namdharis, was behind the surprise election of Mankala Subba Vaidya, then an independent, in 2013. There were multiple candidates from Namdhari community. Relegated to the fifth position, the BJP has fielded a Namdhari, Sunil B Naik.
 
 With Vaidya sitting comfortable as far as development works are concerned, BJP is left with no ammunition but Hindutva. There are murmurs of discontent in the saffron party over appeasement of a specific community. The denial of ticket to veteran RSS leader Govinda Naika has not also gone down well with sections of the party.
 
 “I have served people of Bhatkal for five years by responding to their needs like their own and not as an MLA. This should help me,” says Vaidya.
 
 “Vaidya claims Rs 1,500 crore has been spent. There are 34 panchayats and based on his claims, each panchayat has to get Rs 44 crore. Find out how much each panchayat has got?” says Naik, adding: “He won last time due to Hindu votes. Now, he’s only appeasing Muslims.”
 
 Subash Kopikar, a former gram panchayat member, admits consolidation of votes on religious lines could upset everyone’s calculations.
 
 Social activist MM Haneef Shabab, 63, points out that secular candidates cannot win with Muslim votes alone. Only half of the 52,000 Muslim voters exercise their franchise as many of them are outside and Congress has to depend heavily on other votes.
 
 
