During the Pongal special  , which was aired by a private TV channel on Sunday, prominent speaker S Raja said, "Cooker la pongal vechaalum, padaikkirathu suriyan ku thane".

 Raja’s statement, which translates to "you may cook Pongal in a cooker but you offer it to the sun," came in a programme whose topic was a very apolitical — ‘Has addiction to things/desires increased or decreased among people?’ It does not take much to decode that the statement was a dig at RK Nagar legislator T T V Dhinakaran. Also, there was a subtle reference to the sun — or the DMK’s party symbol. 
 
 Pattimandram, a permanent fixture for Tamil families on festive days, has been recently hosting speakers who use wordplay to deliver strong political innuendoes and satire. Raja’s statement in the Solomon Pappiah-moderated pattimandram is a case in point. 
 
 "It is wrong to use political content in pattimandram," says G Gnanasambandam, Tamil scholar and pattimandram moderator. "Pattimandram’s topics ought to be literature-oriented. Speakers’ use of political content could be due to commercial interests," he says.
 
 Raja acknowledges the sub text in his words. "It is not the first time that I have used such content. I made a reference to the thermocol episode in an earlier programme," he says, referring to AIADMK minister Sellur K Raju’s much ridiculed attempt at lowering evaporation from a reservoir by floating thermocol sheets last year. 
 
 For ardent followers of pattimandram like A Achuthan, listening to Bharathi Baskar mention the distribution of `20 notes as tokens in RK Nagar came as a shock. "I thought they wanted to attack Dhinakaran. I had never heard Bharathi use political references," Achuthan says.
 
 Bharathi agrees that the "spice" has increased in the speakers’ content but the requirement for it was not of their own making. "The audience feedback we received was that they were tired of listening to academic speeches and family-centric anecdotes. Besides, pattimandram is an immediate reflection of society. We cannot be impervious to things happening around us. If content on science and literature is acceptable, then why not over  ?" she says.
 
 Never to shy away from satire, Dindigul I Leoni, in his televised programme on Pongal, made a reference to "sleeper cells". There was also a veiled dig at the BJP with regards to river linking. Leoni acknowledges that the use of political content has grown in the past few years.
 
 "The use of political content is justified. In the earlier days, such content was used only in ‘political pattimandrams’. Now, people accept our content when we mix these elements although it has not yet brought us opposition from political parties." 
 
 Parveen Sultana, one of the accomplished speakers in the circuit, feels that pattimandram’s format has changed to suit the needs of TV channels. "It is no longer about public discourse or dissecting a complex subject in simpler terms to educate and inform. The trend is to capture attention of the viewers because TRPs dictate revenue."
 
 While Bharathi and Raja say that a channel’s creative team has zero role in determining content, Parveen says that the coercion is indirect. "For the TV channel, it is like dropping someone off at a mall to shop knowing fully well what is on sale," she adds. 
 
 
