Our normal expectation of a lodge is that of a venue well decorated on a solid foundation. We watch other species from ground zero or a structure having foundation on the ground. How about reversing this trend? I mean we staying on trees and animals roaming on the ground. I am not talking about hunting. But there is a unique place in the world with the name,  , in Kenya where people are really housed on trees amid a lot of greenery. 

 I visited Kenya around 23 years ago to enjoy a unique African safari. Everyday was different with exciting travel through jungles, a lot of wildlife spotting and "game" tours. Each 2-hour visit to a jungle is called a "game" in Kenya. 
 
 One day, our guide announced: "Today we are visiting Tree Top@Aberdare." It is built around trees and is next to a lake where thirsty animals come for water at night. The facility was as much a part of nature as it has an ancient tree growing right through the lodge - a perfect fusion of nature and comfort. The place was literally built atop the trees of  , offering the guests a bird's eye view of wildlife in complete safety. Originally built in 1932, the facility was in the path of an ancient elephant migratory route between the Aberdare Ranges and Mt   and strategically situated right in front of a natural lake and salt lick. 
 
 After we checked in the lodge for lunch, we were asked to relax for a while as we needed to be awake the whole night. Besides the well furnished comfortable rooms, there's the famous   Elizabeth Suite and a large observation lounge area with ground-level photographic hides, from where the guests could watch the wildlife at night. 
 
 We were told during dinner that frequent ring bells would alert us about species of animals was at the spot. A chart of the bell sounds was on display in every room so that we did not have to strain much remember. The shutterbugs were discouraged to use flash bulbs so that the visitors at night were not disturbed. I enquired with the hotel manager, "Will we see mix of animals drinking water in a group?" Imagine the elephants and big cats all coming together in a group. He said, "No sir. Unlike human beings, these residents of the jungle follow some rules and laws. They come in groups of their own specis, following a pattern." 
 
 As expected, the bells started ringing from 1130pm and visitors' trips along the lake continued till 5 in the morning. I distinctly remember sighting of an infant baby elephant, barely a few days. She was smaller than a dog and was fiercely protected by her mother. I was impressed with the remarkable discipline of the wild animals that would quietly arrive and leave in a group after fulfilling their thirst, making way for the other species. What a method to co-exist peacefully. 
 
 I wish we human beings could learn some of the traits of these wild friends. 
 
  The writer is a digital literacy activist 
 
 
