NAGPUR: The  's efforts to regularly hold convocations and clear backlog of degrees seem to have come undone with the medal and merit list related controversies.

 Last week, NU was forced to award gold medal at the eleventh hour to an MA Psychology student along with her parent who came protesting at the Vasantrao Deshpande Hall though there was no such rule. On the other hand, several claims were rejected on the grounds that students younger in age were preferred in case of CGPA tie, that was seen in MA student’s case.
 
 This was the second convocation during this academic year and from next season, the NU plans to start holding the event soon after completing admissions. Before that, however, the university needs to come clean on the ongoing row, feel academicians, parents and teachers.
 
 Former NU chairman of   (DAC)   didn’t limit his apprehensions to the gold medal blunder and questioned the entire conduct of 105th convocation. “The grand event is governed by ordinance while statutes are framed for awarding medal and prizes. The university needs to bring out the ordinance and statutes to make its position clear,” he said.
 
 Businessman  , who is father of the MA Psychology student, questioned the criteria laid for awarding medals. “We are told the youngest among the toppers was preferred for gold medal while my daughter scored nearly 5% more marks than her. Besides, the third topper’s marks too are more than the gold medalist finalized by university,”   said.
 
 NU had been defending its decision on the basis of UGC guidelines and its 2013 credit direction. However, the candidates who had filed objections yet lost gold medals said no document was given to them while rejecting their claims.
 
 On the other hand, teachers questioned the haste with which NU moved to hold this convocation leading to mistakes in the crucial list and causing anguish to students and their families.
 
 “The NU awarded degrees and medal for the exams held in summer 2017 and it was expected there were no loose ends,” they said. Some teachers also questioned the CGPA formula for deciding medal winners while the awards were instituted when toppers were decided on the basis of marks.
 
