BAMBOLIM: Goa chief minister Manohar  , who was admitted to Goa Medical College and Hospital on Sunday night due to dehydration, is likely to be discharged on Tuesday. 

 “The CM is doing fine. He has been advised rest,”   minister Vishwajit Rane said.
 
 Town and country planning minister Vijai Sardesai, who met the chief minister at the hospital, said there was nothing to worry. “The CM is healthy and all the fears are unfounded. He has recovered and he looks fresh,”   said.
 
 Sardesai, who is also the president of BJP’s ally Goa Forward, said Parrikar was shifted to the hospital as the facilities that are available at GMC would not be available at home. “He should be discharged on Tuesday,” he said. 
 
 Sources said Parrikar is likely to leave for Mumbai this weekend for his medical check-up.
 
 “The chief minister was admitted to GMC for mild dehydration yesterday (Sunday) and is now recuperating. He is likely to be discharged soon and will resume work thereafter,” the chief minister’s office said in a statement late on Monday night.
 
 On Sunday night, on hearing the news that Parrikar was admitted to the GMC, a large number of his well-wishers and supporters gathered outside the hospital to enquire about his health. Many of them came to see Parrikar on Monday, too. Among others, speaker Pramod Sawant and former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar visited him in the hospital.
 
 “Visitors to Parrikar’s room in ward no. 121 have been restricted. Except his close family friends, only a select few are allowed to meet him,” GMC sources said. 
 
 Relatives of other patients, who have been admitted to ward no. 121, are allowed only on proper identification. The first floor has private rooms.
 
 Meanwhile, prayers sessions were conducted in various parts of the state for the recovery of Parrikar. While Mayem MLA Pravin Zantye organised a mahapratna in his constituency, barge owners’ association held a prayer session in Vasco. Churches across Goa prayed for Parrikar’s health on Sunday.
 
 Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment Ramdas Athawale, who was on a Goa visit on Monday, said, “Today Parrikar is ill. When he was the Union minister for defence, I have worked closely with him. I pray that he recovers fast in the interest of Goa. Whether it is SC, ST, Christian or other communities of Goa, the state needs him.”
 
 
