PATNA: A video of ‘pakadua vivah’ victim Vinod Kumar crying hysterically during the ceremony and the mother-in-law wiping his tears had gone viral on social media last month. A report quoting   ‘data’ that more than 3400 boys were kidnapped in Bihar for marriage last year also shown the state in a bad light, prompting the Bihar police headquarters to clarify that all kidnapping cases lodged for forced marriages were actually not related to ‘pakadua vivah’, which was nowadays rare in the state.

 Vinod, a junior manager with the Bokaro Steel Plant, had reached Patna on December 3 last year to attend a colleague’s marriage at Islampur in Nalanda. However, on the pretext of meeting him, Surendra Yadav called Vinod to Mokama and took him to Gopkita village under the Pandarak police station area in Patna district. On reaching there, Surendra allegedly forced Vinod to marry the former’s sister at gunpoint. The marriage video had gone viral on social media almost a month later.
 
 According to the police headquarters data, altogether 3,693 cases of kidnapping for marriage were reported in various police stations across Bihar last year and among the victims were 3,654 girls and only 39 boys. However, a senior police officer said the figures included majority of elopement cases when parents lodged an FIR for kidnapping.
 
 “The figures are on the basis of cases registered just after the incident. Once the investigation proceeds, several other facts surface which completely change the nature of the case,” he said, adding even the kidnapping of 39 boys can’t be treated as that of ‘pakadua vivah’.
 
 “Even in case of elopement of two adults, FIR is lodged for kidnapping. Once it becomes clear that the victims have eloped, it does not remain a kidnapping for marriage case. In case of a minor eloping on his/her own will with an adult, the cases till the end remains of kidnapping,” he said.
 
 “Vinod’s is a clear case of kidnapping for marriage and investigation are on. But it was a rare case. Such marriages are hardly practised anymore in the society,” he said, adding ‘pakadua vivah’ used to took place in the state in early 1980s and 1990s.
 
 
