New Delhi: The government’s proposal to reduce the school   has left educationists nostalgic for the continuous and comprehensive evaluation (CCE) system. It’s   that will be the better option to improve learning outcomes and ensure all-round growth rather than reducing the syllabus, say experts.

 Under CCE children were assessed on their strengths and it eased the pressure of “a big exam” at the end of the year. CCE was introduced in 2010 to evaluate the child through the year, based on his or her presence in school and performance in a series of tests. But in 2017, the progressive CCE was cancelled, and the compulsory Class 10 annual board exam was reintroduced.
 
 “Contrary to what people think, CCE wasn’t a failure. Its greatest advantage was that we could applaud a child whether he chose extra and co-curricular activities, sports or academics. We worked on the strength of every child. What CCE needed was more rigorous training for teachers so that assessment was better,” said Anuradha Joshi, principal, Sardar Patel Vidyalaya, New Delhi.
 
 Schools say that CCE was rolled out too quickly under the Right to Education Act. “It was introduced suddenly but in the field of education, it takes time for reform to reach the grassroots,” said Joshi. In 2016,   did a review and decided that the compulsory Class 10 board exam would replace CCE from the 2017-18 academic year.
 
 “A study by researchers from IIM-Ahmedabad that assessed the learning levels of children pre and post CCE shows no difference in learning levels. We can say CCE was certainly not detrimental,” said Professor Janaki Rajan, department of teacher training, Jamia Millia Islamia.
 
 Compulsory Class 10 board exams put a lot of pressure on children from marginalised sections. “When the Class 10 board exam was made optional, more children started going up to Class 12. Now these numbers will drop as children who fail, especially those from marginalised sections, will simply drop out,” said Rajan.
 
 Experts say CCE was a good idea but badly implemented. Anita Rampal, former dean at the faculty of education, Delhi University, said: “Instead of implementing it across the country, they should have picked a few schools, beta-tested it, ironed out the flaws, and taken two years to roll it out. The results should have been compared before implementing it across the country.”
 
 
