LUDHIANA: A proposal has been prepared to construct a multi-level   lot near the Books Market to curb the traffic congestion in Chaura Bazaar. This parking will be constructed jointly by Ludhiana   and Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (Glada) on the land of zila parishad. The idea is to declare Chaura Bazaar a ‘no-vehicle zone’. Therefore, it is necessary to make arrangements for the parking of vehicles at both entrances of the market.

 There is already a parking provision on the land of zila parishad, but it is insufficient to meet the demand. People coming from Mata Rani Chowk can park their vehicles in the   lot near A Zone office, but commuters who come from the old city have no place to park. They have to either come to the multi-level parking near A Zone, or park their vehicles on the road and walk in the market due to congestion.
 
 MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh said they were working on the proposal to construct a multi-level parking in the Books Market, and after conducting meetings with the department concerned, they would reach a final decision. He said they had a proposal to construct multi-level parking sites in Feroze Gandhi Market as well as the Bhadhaur House.
 
 Meanwhile, residents hailed the decision saying it would help curb the congestion in the market. Civil Lines resident Harpreet Singh said: Ït is a tough task to enter the old markets of the city due to congestion, and if there is proper parking facility on both sides, then there is an opportunity to declare the market ‘no vehicle’ or ‘no parking’ zone. He said MC officials should also repair the multi-level parking near A Zone, because it was in a pathetic condition.
 
 Another resident, Simran Sharma, said if she had to visit Chaura Bazaar, she would think twice because of the traffic jams and congestion in the market. “Otherwise, it is a good place for shopping, where there is a separate market for commodities,” she added, saying the authorities should definitely go ahead with a multi-parking lot in the market. 
 
 
