GURUGRAM: Haryana chief minister   inaugurated two   in the city on Monday, in the presence of the Union minister of state for highways and road transport Mansukh L Mandaviya, bringing relief to commuters who face long snarls at these junctions everyday.

 “We’ve opened the Rajiv Chowk and Signature Towers underpasses to the public in 13 months. The project had a deadline of 30 months. Along with this, there are non-motorised tracks (NMT) for cyclists and pedestrians. Concerted efforts are being made to complete the entire project (underpasses at Hero   and Iffco Chowk, and two flyovers at Iffco Chowk) by March 31. With this, all four junctions will become signal-free,” said Ashok Kumar Sharma, general manager (technical) and project director, NHAI, Gurgaon.
 
 With the Rajiv Chowk underpass in service, people driving from Old Gurgaon will be able to proceed towards Sohna road with ease. Similarly, people approaching NH-8 from Sohna road will be able to reach the district court on the other side without being stuck at the crossing. The Signature Tower underpass will similarly ensure smooth traffic flow from   to Huda City Centre and Gymkhana Club, and vice versa. 
 
 “Two important underpasses, which are expected to decongest city traffic, have been thrown opened to public. This solves the problem of connectivity between Old and New Gurgaons,” said chief minister Khattar.
 
 The state government made it clear they are aware of other pending infrastructure projects in the city. “There are some important projects which need to be completed. The underpass at Hero Honda Chowk should be opened by March. Similarly, Iffco Chowk is ready, except for the underpass there, which is held up as there’s a petrol pump along its alignment. We’ll relocate the petrol pump and hopefully complete the underpass too, by March. Also, work on the elevated highway at Vatika Chowk will start by March,” Khattar added. 
 
 In 2016, the chief minister had chalked out a plan to develop Gurgaon as a cycle-friendly city, and had directed MCG and Huda to build dedicated corridors. While the state government has dithered subsequently, NHAI has gone ahead with the idea. Saurabh Singhal, traffic expert at Bloom Companies, the project’s consultant, said, “At Signature Towers, we have made cycle and pedestrian tracks. They are as good as the road. Towards Rajiv Chowk, there are cross underpasses and an exclusive 4.5km open cycle track, which are all covered.” 
 
  
  
 
 The chief minister also made it clear the Kherki Daula toll plaza will be dismantled, and that the state government is going to talk to the concessionaire about it. “The toll plaza will be relocated to Sehrawan village, where fresh land has been identified and panchayat’s blessings sought,” said Khattar.
 
 
