BHOPAL: Taking out some cash from his father’s wallet had almost cost a 6-year-old child his life. The man, who saw his son taking out money, flew in rage and smashed child’s head against the wall, leaving him critical. It was just a stroke of luck that a teenaged boy in the neighbourhood heard child’s screams and rushed to his house to save him.

 The teenager took profusely bleeding boy to  . The boy is now with the Lokothan shelter home and the father behind bars. Police said the man remained unrepentant. The man reportedly told police, “I haven’t beaten him to death. If he will commit such mistake again, I will beat him.”
 
 Bajaria police said, on Saturday night, the child, who lives with his younger brother, 5, and his father, 45, in  , tried to take money from his father’s wallet. The boy grabbed the child and rushed him to Hamidia hospital where hospital management asked them to go to police. The teenage boy then took the child to Lokothan, after which the shelter home caretaker again took the child to Hamidia hospital for treatment as the child’s condition had worsened. The child was admitted to the hospital and operated upon. The child got six stitches on head.
 
 The younger brother ran out of home in fear and met a ChildLine volunteer near Bajaria police station. The child then stayed at volunteer’s home during the night.
 
 On Sunday, the younger brother was taken to ChildLine after which the ChildLine team took cognisance of the case and lodged a complaint against the father at Bajaria police station.
 
 On Monday, the injured child was presented before the  , which directed the ChildLine to shift both brothers to Lokothan shelter home.
 
 When the child was brought to the police station to lodge the FIR, he saw his father behind bars. He was so scared that he ran outside.
 
 ChildLine director   said, “Timely support by the teenaged boy and Lokothan shelter home helped save the child. Since there was no one to lodge the FIR, we became the complainant in the case.”
 
 
