KOCHI:   are causing varying degrees of drug-induced   in patients, with 2% to 3% of them suspected of severe liver harm that requires medical management, including transplant, a study has found.

 
 However, the practitioners of alternative systems of medicine said that the study has limitations and called it a part of the campaign to malign ayurveda.
 
 The results of a study from a single hospital here over a period from September, 2016 to March, 2017 on 1,440 liver disease patients, seen in the outpatient and emergency departments, show that 94 of them had severe liver injuries associated to ayurvedic and herbal medicines (AHM) intake.
  
  
 
 “Biochemical, histological spectrum and outcomes of AHM linked to severe drug-induced liver injury are not well studied. Around 70% of the AHM samples we analysed for heavy metals and hepatotoxic volatile organic compounds had them,” said  , a specialist in hepatology and liver transplant medicine, and the main author of the study.
 
 
 
 
 (70.4%) in the study with mean age 46.9 years. The median duration of drug intake was 28 days. Five patients in the study group died. “Adequate regulation and scrutiny regarding AHM use among the general population is an unmet need. Early liver biopsy after clinical identification of at-risk patients can expedite definitive treatment with a liver transplant,” added Dr Abby.
 
 The study has found support from hepatologists and liver transplant experts, who called it accurate and one that confirms what they so far suspected. “Though the study says that only 2 to 3% patients are affected, I believe it to be somewhere around 5 to 6%. We need to develop a mechanism to analyze the side effects of ayurveda too,” said Dr S Sudhindran, liver transplant surgeon,   (AIMS).
 
 However, ayurveda doctors said that there are limitations in the study. “They have relied on the verbal reports of patients, who were on AHM. How far, how long and whether the intake was based on genuine prescription has not been validated. The only intention behind the study seems to raise a false public alarm against ayurveda. There are hundreds of studies to show the harmful effects modern drugs have on liver,” said Dr  , general secretary, Ayurvedic Medicine Manufacturers Association of India (AMMOI).
 
 “The sample size of the present study is too small to come to any conclusion and it has failed to consider the lifestyle, food habits and prevailing diseases in the patients,” said Dr K G Raveendran, medical director, Arya Vaidya Pharmacy (Coimbatore).
 
