VIJAYAWADA: A day after YSR Congress president YS Jaganmohan Reddy announced that his party is ready to move a no-confidence motion against the Modi government, chief minister Chandrababu   joined the issue asserting that his party will not hesitate to use the option, if required, in the interests of Andhra Pradesh, but advised the political parties to exercise caution. 

 He said the no-trust motion should be the last resort if the Centre does not bail out AP and added that the TDP will fight till the end to get what is due for the state. Addressing a meeting of Madiga Mahasabha in Vijayawada on Monday, Naidu said: “Some leaders are talking nonsense by claiming that I have colluded with the BJP and that I am not interested in introducing a no-confidence motion against the Modi government at the Centre.” 
 
 He recalled that support of 54 MPs is mandatory for the no-trust motion. “We do not have strength to introduce the no-confidence motion. If need be, I shall take support of all parties and go ahead with the no-trust motion in the interests of the state.” The TDP has 15 MPs, while Jagan’s YSRC had 8 and BJP two in the Lok Sabha. However, Butta Renuka, Kothapalli Geetha and SPY Reddy who contested on YSRC ticket have now switched sides to TDP.
 
 The chief minister said interests of the state are of paramount importance to him. “We are not ready to compromise in this regard. The YSRC is enacting a mere drama. It had talked about resignations and now, it is raising the bogey of no-confidence motion,” he said. 
 
 Lobbying the ball in Centre’s court, Naidu said the Union government should decide whether to provide special package or grant special category status to AP. “Political parties and various individuals are coming together on this contentious issue. We will take opinions of all the stakeholders and move forward,” he said. 
 
 The CM said that he had waited patiently for four years, but justice has not been meted out to AP. “The Centre has to handhold our new state. “There is no compromise on that front,” he thundered. Naidu regretted the stand of some parties and individuals in criticising him, saying that it is the Centre which is not helping the cause of AP.
 
 Earlier in the day, while inspecting the ongoing works at the Polavaram project site, Naidu said that he would convene an all-party meeting and demanded that the Centre implement all the promises given in the AP Re-organisation Act. Senior party leaders said a clarity on when the meeting will be convened and who will be invited to it will be decided at the TDP coordination committee meeting to be held in Vijayawada on Tuesday.
 
 Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee president N Raghuveera Reddy said that a notice under Rule 184 concerning procedures and conduct of business in the Lok Sabha had been issued to the secretary general and it would come up for discussion followed by voting. 
 
 
