BENGALURU: Despite the hullabaloo outside with TV channel crew lining up to interview her, science topper Kruti Muttagi sat composed in her Rajajinagar residence. Kruti scored a whopping 99.5% (597 out of 600) and celebrations began as soon as the II PU results were announced.

 
 Kruti, who has always been a consistent performer, wants to be a doctor and is all set for the upcoming medical entrance examinations. “As a child, I fell sick very often and frequented many doctors. Thanks to them, I would be back on my feet in a couple of days,” she said.
 
 While Kruti is awaiting CET results, her focus is on the NEET exam scheduled for next week and the AIIMS entrance test to be held by May-end. Sharing her success mantra, the girl said she studied for eight to nine hours a day and slept well to stay healthy. “I spent the rest of the time watching TV and listening to music because I was well- prepared,” she told TOI.
 
 Amrutha S R, the state topper in commerce from ASC PU College in Rajajinagar, aims to become a chartered accountant. “I am surprised because I never thought I’d top but was expecting to score above 90%,” she said. She secured 99.1% (595 out of 600), along with Varshini M Bhat from Vidyamandir Independent PU College in  .
 
 She added: “My father faced more than his share of hardships. He took tuitions after school and didn’t have enough time for us. My mother suggested I study commerce like her as the stream opens up a plethora of opportunities. I have slept only for three or four hours every night for the past two years and finally, my hard work has paid off.”
 
 Varshini also wants to be a CA. “I was watching the news and got to know that I am one of the toppers. The result, though unexpected, gave me the encouragement to set records at every level and chase my goal. I have always followed in the footsteps of my brother, who is also pursuing CA,” she said, adding that she studied for five hours at a stretch and took frequent breaks to reinvigorate herself.
 
