BENGALURU: With 50% of voters in 26 constituencies of the city which went to the polls staying indoors, Bengaluru yet again pulled down the state’s overall turnout. Living up to its reputation of being home to indifferent voters, the city saw the worst turnout compared to all other districts. The turnout in the 2013 polls was 57.6%.

 
 Although rain was predicted in the evening, it stayed clear and dry till 6pm when the booths closed. Faulty Electronic Voting Machines in a few polling stations may have led to the dismal show. Malfunctioning EVMs delayed polling by more than an hour at many booths in at least 10 constituencies in the city, with voting at one station in Lottegollahalli under Hebbal segment rescheduled for Monday (May 14).
 
 “People started coming out to vote right from 7am. But they had to wait for hours as EVMs developed glitches and poll officials took time to replace them. Many voters went back and this was the main reason for the low turnout,” said P Ramesh, JD(S) candidate from CV Raman Nagar.
 
  
  
 
 Even in constituencies like Malleswaram where the turnout was better than in 2013 elections (57%), EVMs malfunctioned resulting in long queues. Many voters who had to return home may not have come back to vote. “The turnout would have been much better in Malleswaram but for the EVM glitches. I’m happy that more voters in my constituency came out to vote despite these issues,” BJP’s CN Ashwath Narayan said.
 
  media convener Brijesh Kalappa said the party has taken up the EVM issue with the   as he found some EVMs to be faulty. Chief Electoral Officer Sanjiv Kumar, however, played down the impact of the glitches, and said of the 64,297 EVMs, only 212 malfunctioned and replaced (0.33%). Of the 57,782 control units, 340 (0.9%) failed, while of the 57,786 VVPATs, 698 (1.2%) failed.
 
 “All the machines worked during the mock polling conducted before 7am. However, some developed glitches during the day and with the help of Bharat Electronics Limited (manufacturers of EVMs and VVPATs) engineers, they were replaced without much delay,” Kumar said. Reacting to the claims of Kalappa, Kumar said the Congressman’s tweets were misleading. “The issue was just that one of the buttons (No. 9) was stuck,” Kumar said.
 
 The EC chose to introduce on a pilot basis the advanced M3 version of EVMs in five constituencies in Bengaluru, while Voter-Verified Paper Audit Trail with the control unit was introduced for the first time. Some experts sought to attribute the glitches to insufficient testing of such units. Polling across the city was peaceful. While two people — one each from Congress and   were injured in separate clashes —no other major incident was reported. “We have made no arrests and the poll process was completed peacefully across the city with no major incidents,” city police commissioner T   said.
 
 Among smaller incidents were verbal duels between supporters of Chamarajpet Congress candidate Zameer Ahmed Khan and those from BJP candidate Lakshminarayana’s camp. Zameer’s supporters alleged that Lakshminarayana prevented them from entering polling booths in Azadnagar. Smaller incidents were reported in   and Gandhinagar too.
 
