COIMBATORE: The second national   plan (NFRP) will focus on tackling climate change. S C  , director general of the   (ICFRE), said the plan is scheduled to be released this year.

 Speaking at a two-day national conference on ‘Towards Resilient Ecosystems: The Role of Forestry Research’ that began in the city on Tuesday, Gairola said the plan would focus on action than being generic. 
 
 On the sidelines of the conference, Gairola told TOI that the first NFRP was formulated in 2000. “It was a road map for the country in terms of forest research priorities for 20 years. A lot have changed in these years. We have achieved a lot in forestry research such as creating more productive clones and improving regeneration. It is high time we took a relook at the policy,” he said.
 
 He said the research priorities have also changed since the first NFRP. “The plan would be outward looking in terms of climate change. For that, forestry research should be much more focused than being generic. We are short on resources. So we are holding conferences, seminars, symposia and workshops from which we are getting creative recommendations,” he said.
 
 On the ICFRE, Gairola said the institute has been designated the technical adviser for the government of India for reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (REDD+). “It has prepared a national REDD+ strategy to reduce emissions and for sustainable forest management. The plan would have a road map for institutional arrangement, policy changes and additional management interventions by state agencies to achieve the goals,” he said. 
 
 Other speakers at the inaugural session also paid special attention to climate change.  , director general of forests and special secretary of the ministry of environment, forest and climate change, said the country had committed to add 2.5-3 billion tonnes of carbon stock in the forest by 2030. “For that, there are two strategies: landscape based catchment treatment, where forests are improved qualitatively to store carbon dioxide, and the other is extending tree cover outside forests to sequester carbon,” he said. 
 
 Das said just like for Ganga, catchment area treatment plans would be implemented in all catchment areas in the next 10 years. “The estimated cost for this is Rs 30,000 to Rs 50,000 crore. The possible sources of funding are various ministries, state governments and external funding agencies,” he said. By increasing moisture content in plants, issues such as forest fires and man-animal conflicts would be brought down, he said.
 
 
