CHENNAI: The police have said that four other men apart from security guard   and his son   were involved in the bank heist at the   in   on Monday. "Some of the suspects hail from   and are believed to have fled to Bengaluru. A police team has gone to the neighbouring state to track them down," said a senior police officer. 

 After probing the call data of the prime suspects in the case, Shabi Lal and Dillu Lal, investigation officers zeroed in on a few people who were in regular contact with them. They had abruptly stopped talking on the phone to Shabi and Dilu a couple of weeks before the bank was targeted, leading police to believe that they may have communicated by other means to avoid suspicion.
 
 The suspected accomplices had bought SIM cards after submitting documents indicating that they were residents of Bengaluru. Police are also investigating if they had provided fake documents to get the SIM cards. 
 
 "We have almost narrowed down on the suspects and identified the names of those associated with Shabi Lal. 
 
 "We will get a breakthrough in a day or two," said a police officer.
 
 Meanwhile, a police team has questioned the gas supply agency in Virugambakkam which provided the gas cutting equipment to Shabi Lal. He had collected the equipment from the agency on a rental basis after claiming that the owner of the complex wanted it to seal a leaking portion on the terrace of the building.
 
 "We have not yet received any leads from the special teams camping in Kolkata and along the Nepal border to trace Shabi Lal and Dillu Lal," said a senior police officer. Although the special team led by the assistant commissioner of police and inspector of police is armed with weapons, they have been advised not to take any chances without getting the permission of higher-ups.
 
  This special instruction has been given after the death of police inspector   who was gunned down in an attempt to nab  , the prime suspect in the Rs1 crore jewellery heist in Kolathur on November 16 last year.
 
 
