CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh district court framed charges against former Youth Congress leader Vijay Pal Singh   in a cheating case on Thursday. The court of judicial magistrate first class (JMIC)   framed charges under Section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 12 of the Passport Act. The matter will now come up for hearing on April 2. Dimpy’s bail was cancelled on Wednesday since he did not appear before the court in a hearing in this case. However, he surrendered before the court on Thursday, following which his counsel filed for bail again. He furnished bail bonds worth Rs 1 lakh on Thursday.

 The matter pertains to the original cheating case against him, wherein he was booked on the complaint of former Punjab DGP. It was alleged that he gave misleading information to passport authorities while renewing his passport that no case was pending against him.
 
 The FIR in the present case was registered on directions of the court on September 21, 2016, on the allegations that the accused applied for the renewal of passport vide application dated February 18, 2015, wherein he gave an undertaking before the passport authority that no criminal case was pending against him, whereas a case of cheating on April 1, 2014, was registered against the accused by former DGP of Punjab MS Wirk.
 
 The defence counsel stated in the bail application that the challan had already been present in the court, and no custodial interrogation of the accused was required in the present case. It was further argued that the offence allegedly committed by the accused was punishable only under Section 12 of the Passport Act, and not under Section 420 of the IPC. It was also argued by the defence counsel that the entire allegations made against the accused evolved around a false undertaking given before the passport authority.
 
 
 
 
 A case of cheating against Congress leader   was registered by Economic Offences with a complaint of former DGP of Punjab MS Virk. It was complained that Dimpy took Rs 50 lakh from Virk on assurance of buying property for Virk, which Dimpy never got materialized, and he refused to give back the money to Virk. The case of cheating agianst Dimpy was going on, while the complainant got to know that Dimpy had applied for renewal of passport and given wrong information to passport authorities that there was no case pending against him. Virk moved application in the court which found the allegations to be true and directed the registration of FIR against Dimpy.
 
 Defence counsel   said: “The verification was done by police only after the passport had been issued.”
 
 
