BENGALURU: The   in Karnataka is likely to accept an expert committee recommendation to grant minority religion status to the powerful  , while keeping out the   sub-sect that claim to be Hindus.

 Lingayats are followers of saintphilosopher Basaveshwara who don’t worship idols or follow rituals, while Veerashaivas worship Lord Shiva idols and practise other Hindu customs. “The Justice Nagmohan Das committee and the state minority commission has recommended that the Lingayats should get the minority religion status,” a state government insider said. “It has been made clear that the Veerashaivas will not be part of this,” the person told ET.
 
 But the   government may leave the final decision to the Centre — despite the state having the power to grant minority religion status — because it would not like to get embroiled in a controversy just two months ahead of the state assembly elections. Some party leaders are of the view that such a status for Lingayats will potentially reduce the opportunities for Muslims, Christians, Jains and Buddhists — considered the party’s traditional vote bank — who currently get all the minority reservation benefits. “It is a tough situation,” a cabinet minister told ETon condition of anonymity. “We don’t know if the Lingayat community will support us if they get minority status. They traditionally support the BJP and that may continue. We are worried that we will lose portions of our vote bank that will be upset by this decision and not gain anything by it,” the minister said.
 
 There is also fear that the most powerful sub-caste of the Lingayat community, the Panchamashalis, who also traditionally support BJP, will corner all benefits. The minor sub-sects of the community that support Congress, would lose out. “It could backfire on us in the elections,” another cabinet minister said. “But we cannot backtrack on what the CM said. So, we think we can send the recommendation to the Centre and leave the decision to them.”
 
 Though the demand for a separate religion status has been longstanding, chief minister Siddaramaiah’s promise about a year ago that he will consider and forward the demand to the Centre gave it fresh traction, particularly in the context of the state assembly elections due in May. Now the state cabinet will have to take a call on the matter. There has been much internal debate and dissension within Congress, as Veerashaiva Mahasabha’s chairman Shamanur Shivashankarappa is a former minister and long-term treasurer of the party’s state unit. Shamanur has stuck to the stand that the Veerashaivas and the Lingayats are the same and if there is a separate religion, all of them have tobe included. BJP has contended that Siddaramaiah’s encouragement of the minority religion proposal is a move to splinter the community and their support base. Party state president B S Yeddyurappa, considered the tallest Lingayat leader, told ET: “My stand is the same as that of Shamanur.”
 
