INDORE: The  , which was once the cynosure of all eyes because of its architecture and garden, now cries for attention. Despite being located in one of the most swarming areas, this quaint   property seems to be completely forgotten.

 A board put up by the archaeology, archives and museums department reads, “This monument is a protected one.” However, the reality tells a completely opposite story. The structure, which is a perfect blend of Mughal, Rajasthani and Maratha style, has cracks in several parts and is filled with garbage.
 
 According to city-based historian  , being a relative and the sardar of the Holkars, Boliya Sarkar was an important figure. That’s the reason his cenotaph was strategically built in this area. Also, the colour system of the Holkars -red and black- was maintained.
 
 With no security guard to take care of the monument, beggars and workers use its garden for sleeping and other purposes. Also, pigeons have marked their territory inside it building nests. The property that stays silent throughout the day with a few people asleep gets bustled only during the evenings when the local children come to play cricket.
 
 “We love to come here and play cricket. Sometimes, we also play satoliya. We had been told by the mayor some months back that this place will be renovated. We are eagerly waiting for it. Although, after that we’ll have to buy a ticket to enter inside,” said 14-year-old Manoj Mucchal.
 
 He comes for playing cricket every evening, but is eerie at night as it gets completely dark. “There are no lights here. So we don’t really feel like coming here at night,” he added.
 
 While the children are hopeful and waiting for the renovation work, the adults think otherwise. A local,   said, they claim to invest in crores, but, the ground reality differs. “Plants are growing on the top of the cenotaph. It has become home to all sorts of creatures. No maintenance work is carried out. This place had a beautiful garden, look at the condition now. You will rarely find any visitor here,” he said.
 
 Saddened with its present state, Singh said, “The monument will be renovated under Smart City project. The amount that they’re claiming to utilize is mind-blowing, but they are doing nothing. Things are going from bad to worse.”
 
 On the other hand, archaeological department deputy director KL Dabhi said, “Due to end of the fiscal year we are busy with many commitments. In the first week of April, I will inspect the location and do the needful on a priority basis. For the bigger issues, I will make a development plan and estimate first.” 
 
 
