At the first big event of this year at  , it wasn’t just polo that kept visitors glued to their seats. Instead, it was the Border Security Force’s (BSF) camel and canine show that was the highlight of the event. The event, with a polo exhibition match and a camel and canine show, was first held last year at Jaipur Polo Grounds. Apart from the event curators, Neelam Pratap Rudy and  , other guests at the event included BSF Director General KK Sharma, Minister of State for Civil Aviation Jayant Sinha and Director of the Intelligence Bureau, Rajiv Jain. Talking about the sport, Sinha said, "Only a few would know that there are a few sports that actually originated in India. Kabaddi is one of them and so is polo. It originated in India and became popular across the world. Sadly, today, Argentinians are better polo players than us."

 
 
  
  The canine show impressed many(BCCL/   Gautam
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
 The canine show impressed the guests and one of them particularly won the heart of the chief guest, Jayant Sinha. At the very beginning of the programme, a BSF dog went up on stage to offer flowers to Sinha. "I am impressed with this lovely dog who came up and offered me flowers, it shows us the discipline of the BSF and how they train. It was a real treat," said Sinha.
 
 
  
  Vikas and Leena Bidani (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam
 
 
 
 The acrobatics show by the Camel Contingent and the Camel Mounted Band of the BSF, that has camels donning bright, colourful accessories, was a hit among kids and all of them wanted to click pictures with the camels. BSF officials present at the event had to request the kids to not distract the camels and BSF personnel during their performance. It was interesting to note the names of the camels – for instance, the one who could dance well was named after actor Salman Khan, and two camels who performed together were named Jai and Veeru.
 
 
  
  VC Burman
 KK Sharma, BSF Director General and Punita Kumar Sinha (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam
 
 
  
  Vandana Vadehra
 (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam
 
 
  
  Chetan Seth
 (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam
 
 
  
  Mridula Pradhan
 (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam
 
 
  
  Syed Shahnawaz Hussain (L) and Sandeep Jajodia (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  
  (L-R) Minister of State for Civil Aviation, Jayant Sinha, Neelam Pratap Rudy and Vikramjit Singh Sahney (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam
 
 
  
  RS Jaura
 (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
