The   was abuzz with activity when actress   came in to our office for a three-day-long shooting schedule of U Turn — a Telugu-Tamil remake of 2016 Kannada blockbuster of the same name. Lights, camera, action, cut — these words echoed across the office every time director   rolled the camera and Sam turned into the veritable news reporter. 
Incidentally, Samantha plays an intern who hopes to become an investigative journalist in this paranormal thriller. As she walked into the news room in a red kurta paired with printed palazzos on Day 1, she totally looked the part. In fact, her edgy lob and I-mean-business look in the film is much talked-about already. So how was it playing a journalist in a real news room? “Oh! pretty exciting! I’ve always read the newspaper, so to actually be here, where it all happens, is quite fascinating. It was great to see everybody at work and shoot at a real location. It felt completely different,” Samantha gushed. 
 
 The actress’ last outing  , also saw her playing a young journalist trying to find her feet in the field. Quiz her about playing a scribe yet again, and she says with a smile, “Mahanati was a period film set in the 80s. So that again was a totally different experience. It was a time when reporters still used typewriters. But today journalism has changed so much. For instance, there are so many women working here in this office — perhaps as much as men, if not more. which means we have kept upping our game (laughs).” 
 
 Talking about her character in U Turn, Samantha, adds, “It’s a plot-driven thriller about a normal girl, who because of her profession (journalist), is little more curious about everything. how her life changes dramatically because of a certain real life incident and how she handles it, is what the movie is about. I can’t reveal anything more.”  , who’s Sam’s love interest in the film, will be seen playing a crime reporter. 
 
 Even though the shoot was planned for four days, it was wrapped in three days’ time. Talking about what a wonderful experience it has been, director   said, “when my team had come here for a recce, they were happy with the way the office looks! what fascinated me most was that every floor has a different colour scheme. So, getting to shoot here actually, got us pretty excited. Initially though, were worried if we would be disturbing the staff who were at work. But thankfully everything went on smoothly. We had planned a four-day shoot, but we managed to wrap up in three days. I wish we could have shot here for more days though! (smiles)”. 
 
 When asked, how different is this film going to be from the original, Pawan added, “The theme and idea of the original is retained in the remake as well. But then we have actors like Samantha, Bhumika Chawla, Aadi Pinnisetty, Naren and Rahul Ravindran in this one. We’ve upped the way the film is picturised and the ending has been changed as well. The film is now larger-than-life, and a lot more engaging than the original.”
 
 
