UDHAGAMANDALAM: Following complaints from different quarters, the Nilgiris collector, J Innocent  , has decided to cancel the permission granted to fell more than 900 trees in a private estate in   taluk here.

 A district-level committee headed by the collector is the authority to grant permission to cut trees in the hills when seemed fit. This committee has representation from the forest and the revenue departments. However, indigenous trees and species of jungle trees will not be allowed to be felled even if they are in private lands. Only artificially grown trees are permitted to be felled.
 
 Recently, based on a recommendation from the forest department (Gudalur division), the district-level committee headed by Innocent Divya had given nod to   Malayalam Limited’s   estate at   in Gudalur to fell as many as 963 trees. The recommendation cited that the trees were planted artificially by the estate to provide shade to coffee plants there.
 
 Meanwhile, the district administration received complaints from environmentalists and other quarters saying the trees were not artificially planted, but grown naturally.
 
 “The permission was granted based on the recommendation from the divisional forest officer of Gudalur. After receiving complaints, we have instructed the concerned authorities of the estate to stop felling the trees,” Innocent Divya told TOI.
 
 Subsequently, a team of forest, revenue and horticulture department officials was deputed to inspect the estate and submit a report.
 
 “Report in this connection has been submitted. Permission granted to cut the trees in the estate will be cancelled after completing a few formalities,” Divya said.
 
 In another instance, the district administration had a few days ago launched a website to handle requests seeking permission to fell trees. According to the collector, the public has a wrong notion that permission to fell trees could be obtained only through middlemen.
 
 “We launched the website in order to eliminate middlemen in the process and to make the system transparent. People who would want permission to fell trees in their lands could upload all the required details,” Divya said adding that the revenue, agri-engineering and forest departments would then inspect the lands.
 
 “After obtaining reports from the three departments, the district-level committee will take a final call on whether permission will be granted for felling the trees,” Divya said.
 
 
