ALLAHABAD: The Allahabad high court has directed the state government to explain as to why   wasn't allowed as option in the examination to be held for the recruitment of 65,500   in the state on March 12. This is for the first time that assistant teachers are being recruited directly in the state. 

 Justice  , who was hearing a writ petition filed by  , further directed the state government counsel to provide necessary information in this regard by March 7, the next date of hearing. The petitioner's counsel submitted in the court that his client had opted for Urdu over   as optional paper and cleared Basic Teachers Training ( ) course in 2014. 
 
 The petitioner’s counsel submitted in the court that his client had opted for Urdu over Sanskrit as optional paper and cleared Basic Teachers Training (BTC) course in 2014. Thereafter, in the Teachers Eligibility Test (TET) which had three optional papers — English, Sanskrit and Urdu — he again opted for Urdu and cleared the test. Clearing TET is mandatory for a candidate in the state to apply for the post of assistant teacher.
 
 Subsequently, on January 9 the state government issued a notification declaring examination for the recruitment of 65,500 assistant teachers in the state. However, to the utter surprise of the petitioner, he found that for the language paper which consisted of 40 marks, only Sanskrit,   and English were present as choices while Urdu was excluded.
 
 Hence, he filed the petition assailing the notification on the ground that throughout his academic and training courses he had the option of Urdu and opted for it as per rules.
 
 Thus, the notification which excluded Urdu for the recruitment for assistant teachers, is arbitrary and therefore violative of the petitioner’s right to equality as provided under Article 14 of the Constitution. Moreover, exclusion of Urdu is discriminatory and therefore the notification is illegal. In this backdrop, the court was requested to direct the state government to either include Urdu in the language paper for the recruitment of assistant teachers or cancel the examination. The order was pronounced on February 28.
 
