GURUGRAM: Delhi Public School Ghaziabad ( ), Palam Vihar, has sent notices to   of 20 students, saying that their kids’ names have been struck off the roster for not paying fees on time. With final exams coming up in a week, the parents are crying foul, asking where they can go to resolve the issue.

 The notice said that as per school records, the parents had not paid the school fees for all four quarters since the   in April, adding that Para 24 of   clearly stated that the name of a student could be struck off for non-payment of fees or other dues. The last date of payment of all fees and dues was January 23, 2018.
 
 In response to a writ petition filed by some parents and other stakeholders on school fees, the   and Haryana high court on December 15, 2017, had issued orders to the parents to pay the school fees as demanded by the school.
 
 At that time, the school had also said that the total late fee fine was being reduced to a mere Rs2,000 for the entire year and the deadline for payment was being extended till February 11, 2018, as a gesture of goodwill. 
 
 Deepika Sharma, principal, DPSG, said, “The school has sent notices to 20 parents who have failed to give us the fees after repeated attempts from our side. I have been teaching students who have not paid the fees for free. It is the responsibility of the parents to pay the fees. I have sent notices to a few parents and may consider sending notices to others, too.” 
 
 According to school authorities, there are nearly 500 parents who have not paid the school fees yet. The school principal added that she would consider the request of students, who would pay the fees, to join classes again. Ajay Yadav, whose son studies in class III in DPSG, said, “The school didn’t send us a prior notice before this one. I feel my son’s year will be wasted as nothing can be done here.” 
 
 Similarly, another parent, Sanjeev Kataria, whose son studies in Class IV and daughter in Class I, said, “I can’t afford to pay the school fees for the whole year. The school had increased the fees by a huge margin. Now, after getting this notice, I think my kids will have to repeat the year.” 
 
 Some of the parents, who had lodged a complaint against the school with child welfare committee (CWC) for making their kids sit on the floor on January 25 over non-payment of fees, have also been slapped with the notice. Sanjeev Dhankar, whose son studies in Class I, said, “I paid the fees on February 9 but I still got this notice. I feel this is because I had complained to CWC.”
 
 Shakuntla Dhull, chairperson, CWC, said, “I will look into this matter. The parents and the school management will be called soon for a meeting. We want this issue to be resolved as soon as possible before the final exams start.”
 
 
