BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh Governor   has ignited a political controversy by giving a tutorial of sorts to   leaders on how to get votes. A video of Patel's advice has gone viral, triggering fierce criticism by   and a demand for her removal. 

 The video was recorded at Satna airport in the second week of April during the Governor's trip to Chitrakoot, say sources. Patel, a former CM of Gujarat, is heard saying: "I have conducted an inquiry in this district, Rs 16 crore is lying idle. Run a campaign. This is not heavy, cumbersome work."
 
 Then, she goes into her "tutorial". "Votes aise nahi milenge. Unke ghar pe jaake baithoge, haath pheraoge, tabhi votes milenge (votes won't come just like that. Go to villages, sit with them, show some care, only then you'll get votes," Patel can be heard telling Satna mayor   and other party workers in the viral video. Then, she comes up with a suggestion: "You will get votes only when you adopt needy and malnourished children. Run a campaign, ask others to join...only then PM  's dream for 2022 will be fulfilled."
 
 Then, turning to government officials, she explains: "You don't need votes, but we do." Pandey nods in the video and says they have already adopted many kids from anganwadis. "We have adopted children. The zilla panchayat adhyaksh has. I have also adopted from the aanganwadi," she says. 
 
 
 
 To which, Governor Anandiben Patel says, “Sab ko lagao. Parshad ko bhi lagao, woh bhi ek leh (Let everyone join in. Even the corporator, he should also adopt a child.” As the video went viral, Congress leaders hit out at the Governor. Congress Rajya Sabha MP Vivek Tankha, in an early morning tweet, said, “Governor’s video at Satna airport, which went viral. Governor exceedingly concerned about Narendra bhai’s re-election!! A new low!! With such statements, the office of Governor loses its respect and dignity.” Congress spokesperson K K Mishra was scathing: “Lok-laj sab chor kare hain, samvidhan par chot, Rajyapal bhi mang rahi hain, Modi k liye vote (With no regard for decorum, the governor is asking for votes for Modi. It’s a blow to the Constitution?.”
 
 “The Governor is disregarding provisions made in the Constitution. The BJP government in the last 12 years has spent more than Rs 1,200 crore to address malnutrition and yet approximately 1 lakh infants die every year because of malnourishment. As Governor, she should not have canvassed for BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It seems that she is implementing the agenda of the RSS-BJP combine from Raj Bhavan. President Ramnath Kovind should take note of this and remove her from office,” Mishra said.
 
 Rajya Sabha MP Vivek Tankha, head of the Congress legal cell, tweeted: “Governor of MP holds a constitutional position. She cannot be seen in public working for a party. The video is a sad commentary of Gov’s partisanship. The President of India must take notice of Gov s action.” Congress plans to take it up with Rashtrapati Bhavan.
 
 Leader of Opposition Ajay Singh, who also hails from Satna, expressed anger and surprise. “Governor Patel is seen giving specific instructions to a particular party on how to garner votes. This is against the oath of office administered to her during swearing-in. As the Constitutional head of the state, a Governor should have pulled up the government for the deaths of lakhs of malnourished children. Instead, she is seen tutoring BJP party workers on how to win elections.” The LOP said that after this video Patel “should clarify whether she is the Governor of the 7.5 crore people of this state or just the BJP”.
 
 TOI asked Raj Bhavan officials if the Governor had issued a statement on this, and they said she hadn’t. 
 
 
