KOLKATA: Parents and teachers seemed more anxious than the   Class-XII examinees, who tried hard to shrug off their concerns in the lead up to the economics paper retest slated for April 25. Most candidates felt they would not find it difficult to keep their focus intact on the examination, but parents and teachers rung acaution bell.

 
  
 
 “I fear my son might lose his concentration due to the long gap after April 5, when his exams, according to the original schedule, was supposed to end. A break of 20 days is scary. If he doesn’t revise properly, he may not be able to recollect some formulae or answers,” said  , mother of a CBSE Class-XII candidate studying at Kendriya Vidyalaya, Salt Lake.
 
 A teacher from   felt candidates taking the reexamination should thoroughly read the NCERT books: “The students should not to get distracted or panic over a possible difficult question paper. No need to fret. Students won’t forget anything. They should not pressure themselves into rote learning.”
 
 Not all students, however, seem particularly worried.   from   said, “My previous paper went off well. I was confident of scoring 90%. Now, I am trying to keep myself motivated. I am revising the same topics instead of trying to learn something new. I will try and solve the previous question paper, the one cancelled, to boost my confidence,” he said. “I am trying not to be anxious.”
 
 But unlike Rounak,   Palit, who is sitting for entrance exams, is confused which one to prioritise. “I will appear for the KIIT admission test, which is likely to be scheduled in mid-April. I also plan to appear for entrance exams for some institutes, such as Presidency University, to be held in end-April. When will I prepare for these exams? I need to prepare a flawless timetable,” Parikshit said.
 
 Consultant psychiatrist   has a word of caution for students: “They should not overthink. They will have to make an effort and accept that this situation can’t be changed. Instead of being stressed or depressed, students should try to keep themselves focused. Meditating for a couple of minutes will may help them relax. And, they should eat healthy to avoid seasonal illnesses.” Echoing him, a Mahadevi Birla World Academy teacher said, “Some parents keep discussing the stress. Such discussions should be avoided in front of the examinees as listening to such conversations often leads to anxiety.”
 
 South Point High School student   plans interactive studies with friends over Whatsapp groups. “Our plans for vacations and picnics have been put on hold. Now we have decided on group studies as preparing for an exam alone over a long period is boring,” she said.
 
 
