NAGPUR: A survey conducted by a city-based non-governmental organization (NGO) has come up with a report saying the saffron party, having completed four years in the saddle, has fulfilled only 29% of its promises, drawing a sharp criticism from its arch rival   party and its ally Shiv Sena for its failure to live up to people’s expectations.

 The organization,   (EAC) founded by Sanjeev Tare, has been involved in doing the voters’ audit on city MP and Union minister Nitin Gadkari since 2014 Lok Sabha election but later took break and started concentrating on the performance of the BJP government at the Centre. The NGO had in the past termed Gadkari as a successful minister to a great extent for completing his promises made in his individual manifesto.
 
 According the report, BJP gave 50 types of promises with slogan of ‘Sabka saath, sabka vikas’ and ‘Ek bharat, shreshtha Bharat’ in its manifesto. “Each of 50 promises comprised sub-promises. For example, BJP promised to set up special courts to try hoarders and black marketeers under promise of Food Prices Control. There were 613 sub-promises under the 50 promises,” Tare said.
 
 He further said the audit was conducted by taking 6,130 as total marks. “Each sub-promise was given 10 marks. A parallel table was made in which we started to give 10 marks if sub-promise fulfilled totally, 5 marks for partial fulfilment and 0 for no action. Thus, the BJP government could get only 1,745 as against total 6,130 marks for a percentage of 28.46%,” he said.
 
 BJP city president Sudhakar Kohle, while rejecting the report, said the government in fact fulfilled 80% of its promises made in the manifesto and also many that were not even part of the manifesto. “Rest of the promises are on verge of fulfilment and will be completed in next one year. The BJP did not restrict itself to manifesto only. In fact, the party implemented several schemes and projects keeping the needs and problems of the people in mind,” he said.
 
 Congress city president   alleged that the BJP government could not even fulfil 10% of its promises. “Few projects and schemes that has been underway were implemented or planned by Congress. Instead, the BJP brought down nation’s GDP and pulled down all sectors and people in the last four years through demonetization and other steps. Prices of all commodities hiked. Series of scams unearthed in the last four years,” he said.
 
 Even, the BJP’s ally, Shiv Sena, said the central government has scored less than 29% in fulfilling promises. “Nothing done for generating employment and youth empowerment. Condition of farmers worsened. The BJP implemented projects that was beneficial for few industrialists, their ministers and netas only,” said Yuva Sena city president Nitin Tiwari.
 
 NCP leader Salil Deshmukh, giving only 2% marks, said PM Modi has always been in election mode and engaged in sloganeering and advertisements. “Scams like PNB happened right under the so called ‘chaukidar’. Very few schemes that implemented resulted into loss instead of benefit to the sector concerned. Best example is PM Crop Insurance Scheme that pulled down farmers,” he said.
 
 BSP leader  , giving zero marks, said the condition of poor, farmers, backward class and minority community people deteriorated further in the last four years. “Reservation in promotions has been abolished. A new bill is set to be introduced to restrict reservation benefit up to the respective category. For example, SC person can only apply in that particular category and not in the open category. Only the Modi government made the nation cashless by taking cash from people’s pockets and helping some people like   to take cash out of country,” he said.
 
 
