Vasco: Police nabbed Augustino Carvalho, 32, a history-sheeter, at the Cortalim junction on Wednesday morning.

 At 10.30am on Wednesday, Carvalho was proceeding from Agasaim to Margao when he was stopped by   traffic police on grounds that his car had dark-tinted windows. Carvalho refused to fully lower his window and reveal his facial identity and asked police to give him a challan and let him go. An argument ensued and Carvalho started retaliating. Sensing danger, Verna highway patrol police, a Verna police team and Vasco traffic police surrounded him and forced him to show his licence and let them inspect his car.
 
 As the police were already alerted by   that Carvalho is ‘wanted’, police recognized him and nabbed him. Carvalho, being of heavy built, made it a little difficult for police to detain him. Police said they found two large laterite stones on the back seat and two in the boot. Carvalho told police that he was carrying the laterite stones to construct his house, but police said that no such construction was being taken up at his residence. 
 
 Carvalho also told police that he was working as a tourist taxi driver in Anjuna. Verna police arrested him under Section 41, Cr PC.
 
 DySP, Mormugao,   said there are 13   cases registered against Carvalho and he is wanted by police stations across the state including Margao, Curchorem and Maina-Curtorim for his involvement in cheating and robbery. Maina-Curtorim police will now take Carvalho on a transfer remand, the Verna PI said.
 
 Carvalho has been known to disguise himself as a policeman, stop vehicles and demand money from its occupants by abusing and assaulting them. 
 
 On March 12, a victim, Liyakhat Khan, complained to Maina-Curtorim police that Carvalho, disguised as a policeman, had taken Rs 42,500 from his wallet. 
 
 In June 2017, police had asked for his restraining order. On January 29, 2018, the   collector ordered a restraining order against Carvalho for a year. Despite this, Carvalho, a resident of Betalbatim, was seen in South Goa.
 
 
