BHOPAL: Pranksters have not spared the cops either in Rewa. The otherwise cheerful   falls silent as soon as its telephone rings these days, especially during odd hours. None of the cops dare picking up the phone. 

 Not because they are afraid, but most are prank calls, some abusive and some by females who just want to pass time. The harassed cops are in a catch-22, situation- whether to pick the calls from suspect numbers or ignore.
 
 "Once after being abused by a caller, I was very annoyed and when there was another call which seemed from a number similar to the earlier one, I picked up the phone and spoke in an angry tone. But, soon I realized that it was a genuine caller, who was in distress," said a police official pleading anonymity.
 
 After being frustrated by the prank calls, the cops complained to the   officials to help identify the pranksters, and the cyber police cell seeking details on the callers.
 
 These calls are received at the landline phone of the police control room.
 
 "It sometimes puts us in awkward situations," said another police official.
 
 "Sometimes there are female callers who make meaningless calls. And sometimes it happens that until and unless those callers disconnect the phone, we are not able to disconnect it. Our seniors have information about it and the list of such numbers was also given to the cyber cell," he added. 
 
 When contacted over the issue, reserve inspector of   police and in-charge of the police control room, Jai Prakash Arya said, "We had contacted BSNL over the issue in past. They also made some changes and such calls have reduced since then, still there are a few such prank calls daily.
 
 The callers even make calls to ask why their mobile phone's balance was deducted, when informed that it is control room they abuse. Females also make calls without any valid reasons even during late night hours. Though it has reduced, but still such calls are not uncommon." 
 
 In charge of the district police's cyber cell, Gaurav Mishra said, "We had sought information regarding a list of numbers from which calls were received. We had identified and provided the list of pranksters to them at that time, and we were informed that the situation had improved at that time. I am not aware of current situation." 
 
 
