HYDERABAD: At institutions run by Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society ( ) across the state, it’s always more than equipping students just to do well in examinations.

 After having impressed one and all in the just-declared Intermediate results, the students here say that their aim is to reach the highest of peaks, but at the same time remain grounded.
 
 In all the schools, junior and degree colleges, while studies are accorded top priority, extra-curricular activities, which are challenging, are what keeps the students motivated to achieve greater things. Coming from underprivileged backgrounds, the opportunities that are being given to the students here to explore the world are plenty.
 
 “There are no reverse gears,” society secretary   tells students. The IPS officer played a crucial role in identifying a tribal girl,  , and providing her the training to scale  , along with another student, Anand Kumar.
 
 According to Praveen Kumar, Anand Kumar recently scaled Oceania’s highest peak in Australia after he had earlier scaled Mt Everest and Mt Kilimanjaro (Africa). Students are also being given driving classes. “We will train all our degree students in this skill till they become responsible drivers. No more accidents on roads,” he said.
 
 On March 8, in the social welfare degree institutions, two-wheeler and four-wheeler driving was introduced as an extra-curricular activity, especially for girls. Students are also being taught music in the school of fine arts. Thanks to Suheim Sheik, founder president of The Yacht Club of Hyderabad, underprivileged students are being mentored as sailors. They were taken to the   to be introduced to sailing.
 
 In addition to getting new school buildings, for which Praveen Kumar thanked the government, students also get to listen to stories with morals before they go to bed. Students who pass out of the institutions also get married without taking or giving dowry.
 
 “We are proud of Buchiramulu and Rajita for marrying without dowry. Both have the guts to declare it on the wedding card, the thing which even so called ‘progressives’ and ‘liberals’ are scared of. This tribe is growing steadily,” Praveen Kumar said.
 
 While the focus is to make them reach the skies, students are also taught kitchen gardening. Recently, the output of the kitchen garden of Chevella Social Welfare Residential School was 32kg of different vegetables. This organic farming will be introduced in all the schools. Students also get a hands-on experience in working in the fields – being part of the cultivation. In Khammam, students went into agricultural fields for an experience in transplantation operations.
 
 “We hope that such exposure makes them sensitive to the pain of farmers and farm labourers,” Praveen Kumar said.
 
 
