Madurai: With Alagarkovil Chithirai festival fast approaching, villagers of   have urged officials to restore a few customary proceedings at the Thenur Mandapam in Vaigai river, which were in practice in the past but discontinued due to various reasons.

 About 50 villagers thronged the mandapam, where a flaghoisting festival took place on Sunday marking the inauguration of the Chithirai festival. 
 
 Lord Alagar liberating Mandooga Maharishi from his curse, a famous event during the festival, takes place at the mandapam festival. While the highlight of the festival - Alagar's entry into the river Vaigai will take place on April 30, the deity would be brought to the mandapam the next day for the event. According to the villagers, customaries like taking Alagar into the mandapam and taking him around it thrice were discontinued around 30 years ago citing the instability of the structure, which was in a damaged state. With the mandapam having been restored by the Alagarkovil temple administration last year, villagers have urged for the restoration of the customaries.
 
 P Arumugam, who has done research on the mandapam and has written a few books on the history of Madurai, said that apart from many private mandagapadis, there are six more belonging to the temple. During Alagar’s visit to the city from his abode, he used to be taken to all the mandagapadis. Thenur mandapam is the only mandagapadi where a fee is collected by the temple administration. It is a mark of respect to the village, where the festival was conducted until early 1650s. Mannar Thirumalai Nayak shifted the festival to the city due to various reasons. 
 
 “There are evidences of the temple paying our village 21 gold coins as tax for the deity to enter the mandapam, which was used for ‘annadanam’ during the festival. But now only Rs 200 is paid by the temple administration. We are pooling money from the village now to fund the annadanam,” said Karthigai Kumaran, a villager said. At present, only a few of the proceedings in the customary are followed, he said.
 
 
