BHOPAL: He teaches electronics but his dance moves are electric.  , who has set the dance stage - and internet and social media - on fire as 'uncle dancer', is an assistant professor at Bhopal's  . 

 
 Stunned by his overnight fame, the 46-year-old told TOI that the recognition he chased as a teenager has found him in middle age. "I never expected in my wildest dreams that a one-minute video of me dancing at a family function would go viral. I am overwhelmed," he told TOI from  , his hometown, on Friday.
 
 Even chief minister   applauded, tweeting: "Professor Sanjeev Shrivastava Ji ki zindadili ne pure Bharat mein internet par tehelka macha diya hai. Mano ya na mano,   ke paani mein, kuchh toh khaas baat hai (The liveliness of professor Sanjeev Shrivastava has swept the country and internet. There is something special about Madhya Pradesh)."
 
  Shrivastava had to take Friday off just to field calls from friends, relatives and the media. "It's kind of crazy. It's been like this since last night. Feels wonderful," he laughed. A relative said Remo Fernandes called him after seeing the viral video. 
 
 The video of him dancing to the 1987 Govinda number 'May se Meena se na Saaaqi se' was shot at his brother-in-law's Sangeet ceremony on May 12, he said. 
 
 The clip shows him serenading his wife   to cheers from the guests.
 
  The quiet, even sombre teacher was a tearaway breakdancer in his teenage years. "I gave stage performances regularly between 1982 and 1998 and won many dance competitions in Nagpur, Pune and Bhopal. I even won the best dancer in Madhya Pradesh award thrice in a row, from 1986 to 1988," he said. 
 
  Asked how it feels when people say he has out-Govindaed Govinda, Shrivastava said: "Music and dance play a very important part of life, and my wife and I dance together often. She is not a stage performer but we have our little dance sessions every now and then. Dancing rekindles romance and understanding in our marriage," he said. "It's the secret of our happy marriage." 
 
 He learned dance from his mother Mohini Devi Shrivastava - a Bharatnatyam teacher, he told TOI. 
 
  "I began dancing at the age of 10. My mother used to teach children of the locality and I used to learn with them, too. Though I did not receive any formal training or pursue it as a profession, I have been dancing for 36 years now," he said. 
 
