Trichy: The city corporation has been making every effort to promote use Swachhata app, official mobile application from Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM), among city residents, but is taking little effort to resolve issues reported on it. Even though the app comes with a promise to resolve civic grievances in a day, it appears that the solutions are only temporary but not long term.  Several residents across the city have come forward with a common complaint stating that grievances lodged and ‘resolved’ via the Swachhata platform recurs very next day. As one of the parameters in the ranking survey, familiarity of the Swachhata mobile application among citizens has been given weightage. During the Swachh Survekshan 2017, Trichy was ranked sixth even though the top five cities were lagging behind in many parameters as there was wide difference in the citizen feedback (Swachhata app).  The civic body since August 2017 had been reaching out to tech-savvy communities, mostly college students and government offices, to ensure at least 40,000 downloads of the application. Though the civic body claims that grievances uploaded on the application would be addressed within a day, residents in the city allege that complaints were tagged as resolved even though it remains unattended.  “Though the corporation is working hard to upgrade solid waste management practices in the city, a holistic approach seems to be lagging. For namesake, complaints posted in Swachhata application were tagged as resolved, yet we experience the same trouble each day,” said V B Jeganath, resident, Karumandapam. Jaganath cited that accumulated mounds of waste including waste from meat stalls dumped in a vacant plot near RMS Colony (ward number 45) was submitted as grievance in Swachhata application. A day later when the complainant was marked ‘resolved’, he found the waste at the same place.  Same is the case of a grievance uploaded about waste dumped on VOC road near the District Industries Centre. While the corporation claimed that the complaint was addressed, the waste mounds are in the same place every day, which was verified by TOI. Since it is mandatory for the civic body to address the grievances submitted through Swachhata application within a day, the public lamented that the civic body without doing groundwork and subsequent follow-up was making false claims in the application.  When contacted, corporation commissioner N Ravichandran said, “Will look into the issue and inquire. A meeting with the officials will be convened to ensure transparency in providing solutions for grievances submitted through Swachhata application.” NOT USER FRIENDLY: Several residents across the city have come forward with a common complaint stating that grievances ‘resolved’ via the Swachhata app recurs very next day  Dynamic ranking of city based on usage of Swachhata application:  Cities with population between 1 - 10 lakh City name Current rank Best rank Total score User engagement User happiness Agency responsiveness Chandigarh 25 11 106.89 195.58 28.21 96.89 Trichy 55 11 88.60 127.66 44.19 93.96 Erode 81 1 78.89 116.04 29.35 91.28 Salem 136 14 50.07 20.12 45.76 84.32  User engagement:  Ratio of number of users installing and actively using the application versus the respective city’s population  Agency responsiveness: Ratio of the collective addition of complaints resolved within the service level agency and outside service level agency versus the total resolutions done  User happiness:  Ratio of the collective addition of neutral and satisfied feedback versus total feedback  Source: Swachh Bharat Mission India