Kalyani BOP (Bongaon): In a first for both countries, the directors general of Border Security Force and Border Guards Bangladesh declared an 8.3km stretch of the Indo-Bangladesh border a ‘crime-free zone’ on Friday. 

 With the help of civil administrations of the two countries, NGOs and the local populace, both border-guarding forces will help ensureno crime takes place along the stretch that covers the Gunarmath and Kalyani border outposts (BOPs) in India and the Puthkhali and Daulatpur BOPs across the border.
 
 “This will add a new dimension to border management with all countries in the world concerned about terrorism and crimes such as smuggling of drugs and human trafficking. Both forces will work together to ensure no crime or antisocial activity occurs along this stretch. We know populations on both sides have relatives across the border. They will want peace and security along the border and we seek their help. Just as BSF has helped in developing economic activity on the Indian side, we shall also do the same in Bangladesh. Other enforcement agencies will also help us. This will be an example for the whole world,” said Major General Abul Hossain, DG, BGB.
 
 According to BSF DG K K Sharma, this is a positive and constructive way of border management. “This decision was taken during the DG-level talks at New Delhi in October 2017. While BSF has brought in more manpower and equipment to secure this str-etch, we shall also expect help from people’s representatives, NGOs, the local administration and the local people. I can assure that the local population will benefit — both socially and economically — from this move,” he said.
 
 “This stretch is one of the most vulnerable with cattle smuggling and other criminal activities prevalent. The idea is to target the more difficult areas along the 913km of the border under BSF’s South Bengal Frontier. This is a pilot project that will be reviewed after 5-6 months,” said PSR Anjaneyulu, IG, BSF, South Bengal Frontier.
 
 
