Ludhiana: Unlike previous MC elections, this time, women candidates are stepping out of their husband’s shadow and taking charge of their own campaigning. Take the example of Congress candidate from ward number 19 Manisha Taparia, who is also the daughter- in-law of Congress district president of women wing, Leena Taparia.

 One might have witnessed a lot of television serials with saas-bahu rivalries, but in reality the picture is quite different. Manisha is hitting the streets on a two-wheeler with her mother-in-law riding pillion. That is not all. She is also going all out to organise door-to-campaigning and addressing a number of public gatherings. Manisha has categorically mentioned that her saas would accompany her throughout the campaigning.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Manisha said, “I am an independent woman and have received tremendous support from my family. My family has always encouraged me to handle my campaign on my own. Moreover, I think it’s high time that all the women candidates stop relying on proxy campaigns. Like in my case, my family wanted me to fight the elections.”
 
 Manisha is all praise for his mother-in-law. She credits her saas for her achievement. “Whatever I am today is because of my mother-in-law. She has supported me the most and I have learnt everything from her. I have requested her to accompany me in the entire campaign. She is a seasoned politician. Her guidance has helped me immensely,” said Manisha, who is contesting the election for the first time.
 
 Another first timer, Jaspreet Kaur Thukral, who is contesting the election on Congress ticket from ward number 39, is organising nukkad meetings in her ward almost on a daily basis. She is also visiting every house in the area. She admits she had apprehensions before her applied for her candidature. “Initially, I was apprehensive of delivering speeches. But my husband has been very supportive. Now, I am confident. I am also doing door-to-door campaigning without him,” she said.
 
 Thukral also wants more women to come forward and join politics. “More women should enter politics. Today women are excelling in every field, so why should we not join politics,” she said with a smile.
 
 
