KOCHI: Ahead of school reopening, the city police department has come up with safety guidelines and precautions to keep children safe during the new academic year. 

 
 City police commissioner M P Dinesh has assigned an officer who would act as a nodal officer for each school. Apart from the  , two other officers each would be deployed at every school in the city to help schools in maintaining  , especially during their commute between school and home.
 
 
  
 
 "The force doesn't have enough officers to be deployed at schools on a full-time basis throughout the year. However, we are making this step to ensure that children are safely transported. The officers will remain at schools till the school and students settle down after the reopening," said the commissioner.
 
 "We have held discussions with representatives of schools. A point person, each from the police and the school, is identified to ensure proper communication. The point person, from the side of the police, will keep in touch with schools throughout the year," said Dinesh.
 
 The police guidelines are for parents, public and school authorities. Parents have been warned against sending their children in crowded vehicles. 
 
 School authorities and parents have been asked to approach police in case of any abnormal or misbehaviour from the side of those ferrying them to school.
 
 School authorities and parents should take extra care to ensure that no crew member of the school buses and those in the hired private contract vehicles are facing criminal charges, the police advisory reads. It advises parents to ask those ferrying children to acquire a police clearance certificate for the same. The department has assured assistance in making private buses to allow students to board and de-board from the designated bus stops. 
 
 "Vehicles should have the required fitness certificate and should ensure all safety measures, especially those running on LPG. All vehicles engaged in transporting students will be inspected regularly," said an officer.
 
 Speeding and drunken driving will be strictly dealt with, said an officer.
 
 District rural police have also issued an advisory to schools in the rural area to ensure safety of children. 
 
 Rahul R Nair, Ernakulam rural SP, on Thursday convened a meeting of stakeholders. The rural police have decided to take stern action against those selling tobacco products within the100-m radius of all educational institutions.
 
 The rural police officials said that school authorities have been asked to install complaint boxes on the school premises. They have been asked to install   cameras and to keep a visitors' register at schools.
 
 Officials said that the motor vehicles department has also been directed to carry out periodical inspection of vehicles to prevent any mishaps.
 
 In 2017, soon after the school reopening, 92 school bus drivers were booked for drunken driving in a drive held by the then Kochi range IG. 
 
 Officials said that the extra vigil this year was to avoid repeat of such instances. 
 
 
