One year, over 30 venues, 10 own compositions, multiple genres, soulful and hum-worthy tunes are what   and the Unassumed Identity is known for. With their biggest influences being   and John Mayer, this Bengaluru-based, five-member band is becoming popular with their music that appeals to the youth.

 Started off as a four-member band, Kaushik and the Unassumed Identity have come a long way in the music industry. The band is the brainchild of lead vocalist Kaushik Shukla, who later added guitarist  , bass and backing vocalist, Rahul Chidambaram and drummer   to the ensemble. Keyboardist Manu Srivastava later joined the group. In a free-wheeling chat with Bangalore Times, Kaushik lets us in on the formation of the band, their inspiration and more...
 
 
 
 If you notice well, one always tries to identify a band by the kind of music they play. It mostly indicates the genre of the band. And everyone would distinguish you with the genre and not your band. So, we wanted a name that no one will be able to distinguish. This way, people would not assume the kind of music we play. It is only when we start playing the music that people know what kind of music we play. And it’s not that we just play blues, we play all kinds of music, we play pop, rock and fusion. We are collaborating with some Carnatic artistes now too. So, that is where the name came from.
 
 
 
 The key to being a band that plays together is to understand each other’s language. Even though we all speak in English, the musical language is different and each of us have our way of understanding music and interpreting it. And the key to understanding it is communication. That is how we have evolved over the period of time. Initially, we were just going with the flow. But now, we have started understanding music more.
 
 
 
 When one hears our rhythm and compositions, they sound pretty easy. It is something that will always stick to your mind. We have arranged the music in a way, where it is not easy to play but sounds simple. That is what the tag line of the band name implies. Simple, hum-worthy tunes arranged in a musically complicated manner. That is how we try to do it and make our band stand out from the rest.
 
 
 
 Honestly, we had never counted the number of shows we have performed in. It is only when someone asked us how many shows have we played is when we started counting. We have taken every show we got and played it like it was our very first. That is the amount of concentration and dedication we have. The best part about playing in Bengaluru is that we have an audience that is ready to listen to us. And people come forward, compliment and congratulate us on what we play, and that is really great for us. I have performed as a solo artiste in other cities, but never received the kind of response we have got in Bengaluru. 
 
 
 
 Normally, when a band starts writing songs, it is all love songs, not to say we do not have our share of love songs. But we also have songs about struggling with your fear and letting it go. And, about people around you who trust you. Basically, it is about not having a fear. Go with the people believing in you and get on with it. Some of the songs are also based on life and experiences. One of our songs is based on Mumbai. It is inspired by life situations that we find ourselves in. At some point of time, it always happens in way that whatever we have written about, someone has gone through it. It is that kind of connection we have with our songs.
 
 
 
 We have around 9-10 original compositions and we have been playing it continuously for quite some time. We wanted to document it as a record, because people wanted to know where they can listen to our music, and we didn’t have a place where they can listen to it except our live videos and they aren’t that clear too. We wanted to make a record and produce it properly. That is the idea. The title was suggested by Rahul. He said that it’s been a year since we have been playing together. And coming up with an EP is like jumping into something big. It’s like bungee jumping just before you can take that big leap. It is just like that, as we are taking our step into something big. Therefore the title ‘Before the Plunge’.
 
