KOLKATA: In a bid to break the month-long stalemate at Calcutta High Court, acting chief justice Jyotirmay   has called for an emergency meeting on Wednesday with state advocate-general   and senior office bearers of the three agitating lawyers’ bodies –   Bar Association, Bar Library Club and Incorporated Law Society.

 The meeting comes after the lawyers’ bodies on Monday decided to extend their month-long cease-work by another fortnight and insisted that they wanted the Centre to spell out a specific time for the appointment of judges.
 
 The acting chief justice’s intervention comes on a day when case-pendency data published by the Calcutta High Court indicates a dismal picture. The cease-work started on February 19. In February, it had impacted eight working days of the HC (February 19-23; February 26-28), as a result of which the case-disposal rate fell sharply. According to the data, only 3,167 cases were disposed. In January 2018, 5,250 cases had been disposed.
 
 Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra, at a meeting with a delegation of lawyers’ bodies in New Delhi on Friday, had appealed them to withdraw the cease-work.
 
 A senior bar association office bearer said, “We have been requested to attend the meeting in the acting chief justice’s chambers at 11am. Whatever be the outcome of the meeting, we need to seek approval of the bar association’s general body, which has decided to extend the cease work till April 2.”   is the largest organization among the three lawyers’ bodies with over 7,000 members and any decision taken by it is usually accepted by the others.
 
 A senior lawyer argued, “The primary issues were non- appointment of judges, lack of a full-time chief justice of the Calcutta High Court and a demand for representation of the Calcutta High Court in the  .”
 
 In all the three aspects, the lawyer said, both Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and the CJI had provided inputs. The Centre had assured the lawyers that seven names recommended by the Calcutta High Court has already been sent to the Supreme Court CollegiumIt also assured that it is processing justice Bhattacharya’s elevation as the chief justice of Calcutta High Court.
 
 “Modalities and protocol will take some time. To argue, the Centre comes up with finite timelines is being unreasonable,” the lawyer said.
 
