Looks like the buzz around the film,  , which is based on the life of  , has had its ripples felt on our campuses also. Words like  , which are generally considered a ‘taboo’, be it at home, college or anywhere else, are being discussed openly by our students now. “Today, girls in my class, who would earlier scold me if I uttered the word period in class, have memes on Muruganantham as their WhatsApp display picture,” says R Mahalakshmi, Jerusalem College of Engineering, Chennai. Agreeing with her is Pauline Mary Amal from Tamil Nadu Dr. Ambedkar Law University. She says, “For whatever reason it is – be it to show their genuine support to women’s issues or simply to gain attention – people are at least talking about it. Earlier, when I posted a video of mine on social media, holding a sanitary napkin pack and talking against the GST imposed on it, I was trolled and was showered with abusive comments. Now, at least that attitude of people has changed.”
Mohideen Afsal Ali, a final-year student of Aalim Muhammed Salegh College of Engineering, says there’s as much awareness needed for boys as it is for girls on menstruation. “There’s nothing wrong in a boy going out and buying a pack of sanitary napkins for a friend, or his sister or mother. I studied in a boys' school and therefore, I never interacted with girls back then. And things like menstruation was never discussed at home; it was considered a  . I hope the life of Muruganantham will be an inspiration for many of us,” says Afsal, who now volunteers with Dhagam Foundation, which runs projects where women's issues, including awareness on periods and menstrual hygiene, are discussed. So, what change is needed on our campuses? “Firstly, these topics need to be discussed openly. When I had to do a presentation in college, I chose menstruation as the topic and my teacher discouraged me from doing that. Thankfully, the external examiner was okay with that. Secondly, girls shouldn’t be ashamed of menstruation. Why should sanitary pads be wrapped with newspaper , or put inside black polythene bags?”
 
