GURUGRAM: Officials from   ( ) have started reaching out to plot owners to encourage them to avail the one-time settlement scheme for recovery of additional price on account of enhancement. 

 The scheme will be launched on May 15 and remain in force for two months.
 
 On Thursday, officials organised a camp in the community centre in Sector 56 to spread awareness about the scheme. They advised plot owners to pay their enhancement dues within the next two months as the state government would be giving a 40% rebate under the scheme as announced by chief minister   on May 4 after his meeting with representatives of Residents Welfare Associations (RWAs) from across the state.
 
 Nearly 20,000 allottees in new Gurugram are yet to pay their enhancement fees. Huda is set to organise camps for plot owners of sectors 27, 28,31, 32 42, 43, 51, 52, 31, 32a, 39,40, 45, 46 and 57 till May 14. 
 
 Bharat Bhushan Gogia, estate officer 2, who led the camp for plot owners of sectors 51, 52, 55, 56 and 57 on Thursday, said that the scheme, under which the government was offering a 40% rebate on enhancement dues, would be for one time only and plot owners could easily make the payment by generating an online challan. 
 
 However, the efforts backfired as the allottees posed some difficult questions to officials at the camp. They said that the enhancement dues should only be levied after giving possession of plots.
 
 Suresh Kumar, a plot owner, said, "Huda has not even handed over the plot to me. So, how am I liable to pay the enhancement fee?"
 
 Another plot owner Dharambir said, "We paid the enhancement fee when it was imposed but now, a rebate is being offered. Shouldn't we also get a refund of the excess money that we have already paid?"
 
 Responding to these questions, Gogia said, "We are making efforts to encourage people to avail this scheme because the state government is offering a big rebate for two months and plot owners will be able to save a big amount of money. Some queries have been raised by plot owners but we are only trying to speed up the process at this point, so they can get their plots at the earliest."
 
 
