MELBOURNE: The  's fourth seed  , thorough and tough, made compatriot   look every bit a 15-year-old on the   on Friday.

 The young Ukranian - the first player born in 2002 to play in a Grand Slam main draw - went down 2-6, 2-6 on a blistering afternoon, punctuating the 59-minute third-round meeting with her ninth double fault of the match.
 
 Kostyuk, who was all smiles when she met her opponent at the net, sobbed in her mother's arms shortly after.
 
 "How much you have to pay Svitolina to have one-hour lesson?" Kostyuk asked the media in her post-match conference. "I got it for free."
 
 Not quite, the fourth seed said, underlining that they played for prize money. The 15-year-old takes home A$142,500 while Svitolina has A$240,000 and counting. "Expensive lesson," the senior pro added with a smile.
 
 Svitolina, who spotted Kostyuk 12 months ago, when she won the junior event here, enveloped her opponent with a big hug at the end of the match. "She did an amazing job. Going through the qualifying, winning one match in qualifying is already good, winning two matches is awesome, winning three matches is unbelievable, and then beating two girls playing good level. She will remember this moment for all her life. It was very special."
 
 Kostyuk, ranked 521 and who will lead her country's challenge in the Fed Cup, applauded her opponent. "She's a great player, but I learnt that I can play against everyone. I had chances, but because I thought, like she's a God, I cannot do anything against her."
 
 Kostyuk, who got a wildcard into the qualifiers, where she came through three three-set matches, said she struggled with the heat and was low on energy, but more than any of that was disappointed with her play. The teen - whose mother Talina is a tennis coach and father Oleg a technical director of a junior tournament in Kiev - is strong off the ground and has a big serve. She has a tendency to rush through points though, and lapses into errors.
 
 "My mother said it was fine. Everyone knows that you can play better, and you showed everyone how you can play. Nothing bad had happened," Kostyuk said of her mother's words. 
 
 
