BENGALURU: The   has upheld the ruling of a   holding a migrant labourer guilty of raping his 12-year-old daughter. 

 Dismissing the objection to Annappa alias Manjunatha’s conviction — he cited a 15-day delay in filing the rape case — Justice K Somashekar pointed out that the girl was in her father’s custody and he had even issued life threats to her. As a consequence, the girl was not able to report the incident to anyone, not even her mother, who worked as a domestic help and was away when her daughter was sexually assaulted.
 
 “The accused has committed the heinous offence of raping his own daughter, that too a schoolgoing girl. He threatened to kill her if she disclosed the act to anyone, and the same is supported by evidence,” the judge observed in his order while upholding the October 6, 2017 verdict passed by the Ist additional sessions court, Chikkamagaluru.
 
 The trial court had sentenced Annappa, a resident of Togalagondanakoppa of Soraba in Shivamogga district, to 10 years rigorous imprisonment (RI) and levied Rs 50,000 fine after holding him guilty under Section 376(2)(f)(i)(m) of IPC and also sections 5(i)(m)(n) and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso)Act.
 
 Besides the delay in filing of the FIR, Annappa had contended that a part of the evidence was not properly assessed by the trial court while convicting him. He claimed he had taken his daughter to police to lodge a complaint against a boy who had allegedly raped her and the trial court ought to have asked the girl why she didn’t complain against the boy.
 
 The prosecution relied on the girl’s deposition that on March 29, 2015, her father took her to Chikkamagaluru and confined her to a hut in Coolie lane of Anegundi Estate, Koove village, for 7-8 days.
 
 Around 9pm on April 2, 2015, a drunk Annappa came to the hut, forced the girl to undress and raped her. She further told the court that on April 10, he again assaulted her and she was rescued by members of Ujwala Samsthe, an NGO from Chikkamagaluru.
 
 On April 17, the girl met her mother and uncle and recounted how her father had raped her. The mother later filed a complaint, following which Annappa was arrested.
 
 
