These men have oodles of talent, good looks and great physiques that make them highly popular and desirable on the small screen. In a women-dominated medium, they have managed to hold their own. Here’s presenting The Times 20 Most Desirable Men on Hindi Television 2017.

 
 
  
  
 Known for: His brooding looks have women swooning over him. Known to be fiercely guarded about his personal life, Shaheer is almost a recluse, which adds an air of mystery to him. The actor, who was last seen on 'Kuch Rang Pyar Ke Aise Bhi', is currently in talks for the show, 'Mughal-E-Azam'. 
 
  After splitting from Indonesian singer Ayu Ting Ting, Shaheer was rumoured to be in a relationship with his 'Kuch Rang...' co-actor, Erica Fernandes. However, the two have always denied it.
 
 
  
  
 
  One of the cutest actors on the block, Zain, who started his career with 'Kaisi Yeh Yaariaan', became a household name with 'Naamkarann'. He is a man of few words, but his expressive eyes more than make up for it.
 
  Single.
 
 
  
  
 
  This handsome actor, who has a well-sculpted physique, may not have featured in too many daily soaps, but he has made a mark as an anchor on reality shows.
 
  Rumoured to be dating his 'Ek Hazaaron Mein Meri Behna Hai' co-actor Krystle D’souza, but his lips are sealed. 
 
 
  
  
 
  His ice-cool nature and don’t-mess-with-me attitude have won him a massive fan-following among women across age-groups. Eight years ago, he rose to fame with 'Pyaar Kii Ye Ek Kahaani' and is currently seen on 'Shakti... Astitva Ke Ehsaas Ki'. 
 
  Separated from wife Vahbiz Dorabjee.
 
 
 
 
  He is one hottie you can’t get enough of. With an enviable physique and loads of confidence, he is definitely one of the most desirable men in the industry. Whether as Shiv in 'Balika Vadhu', Parth in 'Dil Se Dil Tak' or the charming host of 'India’s Got Talent', Sidharth has made an impact on the audience, particularly the female folk. 
 
  Single.
 
 
  
  
 
  He has one of the best bodies in tellyland. This vegetarian sweats it out in the gym, and doesn’t compromise on his fitness regimen. He is also one of the few actors who has managed to bag male-oriented shows — 'Saraswatichandra', 'Mahakumbh' and 'Suryaputra Karn' — in a female-dominated medium. 
 
  He tied the knot with his 'Suryaputra Karn' co-actor Pankhuri Awasthy in February this year.
 
 
  
  
 
  The ‘banda-ye-bindaas-hai’ tag suits him perfectly and that’s what makes him desirable. His roles in 'Ek Hazaaron Mein Meri Behna Hai' and 'Beyhadh', and his stint on 'Bigg Boss 7', made him a household name.
 
  Currently single, Kushal was in a relationship with his 'Bigg Boss' co-contestant Gauahar Khan. They split in 2014, following a year-long courtship.
 
 
 
 
  Along with an impressive physique and a chiselled face, he is also multi-faceted. Abhinav is an adventure junkie and also loves photography. On the work front, he took a break from TV for films, but will soon be back on the small screen with a new fiction show.
 
  He is set to tie the knot with his actress-girlfriend Rubina Dilaik next month.
 
 
 
 
  While naysayers had doubts about the future of the TV show, 'Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai', following the exit of its popular lead couple Hina Khan and Karan Mehra, Mohsin made his way into the hearts of people as Kartik. His warm smile and soft looks make him desirable.
 
  He is dating his 'Yeh Rishta...' co-actor Shivangi Joshi.
 
 
 
 
  He rose to fame with his character Veer in 'Pardes Mein Hai Mera Dil'. Laksh’s intense looks and charisma have made him a teenage heart-throb. He is currently seen as the lead in 'Porus'.
 
  Single.
 
 
 
 
  Most popular for his portrayal of Mahadev on TV, this well-built actor’s reserved nature adds to his desirability quotient. 
 
  He is dating his 'Devon Ke Dev... Mahadev' co-actor, Mouni Roy. 
 
 
 
 
  This good-looking actor is known for speaking his mind. He started his career with fiction shows and in the last few years, has made a mark in the non-fiction genre. This year, Karan also made his foray into Bollywood with 'Hate Story 4'.
 
  Single.
 
 
 
 
 Raised in Dubai, Rithvik moved to Mumbai to pursue acting. His dream came true after he bagged the role of Arjun in the popular show, 'Pavitra Rishta'. His easygoing nature and wit have made him one of the top favourites to host reality shows.
 
  He is dating his 'Pavitra Rishta' co-actor, Asha Negi.
 
 
  
  
 
  He got noticed for playing a man in love with a married woman in 'Dil Sambhal Jaa Zara'. He has also acted in the Bollywood film, 'Tum Bin 2'. His tall frame and classic good looks add to his appeal. 
 
  Single.
 
 
  
  
 
  The actor first shot into limelight with the TV show, 'Pyaar Ka Dard Hai Meetha Meetha Pyaara Pyaara'. Currently seen on 'Ishqbaaaz', Nakuul can floor you with his intense acting and killer gaze. 
 
  He is married to singer Jankee Parekh since 2012. 
 
 
 
 
  He is currently one of the top favourites among female viewers, especially for his portrayal of the brooding hero on 'Bepannah'. Known for his penchant for fitness, this low-profile actor is most likely to be found in the gym when not shooting.
 
  Single.
 
 
 
 
  His calm-yet-resolute demeanour makes him desirable. As an actor, he has made a mark on television with strong characters in 'Saas Bina Sasural' and 'Jamai Raja'. He is also a popular host. 
 
  He is married to actress Sargun Mehta. 
 
 
 
 
  His boyish charm and confidence have added to his appeal. He became popular with the show 'Miley Jab Hum Tum'. Besides conventional daily soaps, he explored the fantasy genre with 'Naagin'. He is currently seen on 'Ishq Mein Marjawan'. 
 
  He is married to Neha Swami and has a three-year-old son, Ayaan. 
 
 
 
 
  Disciplined and diligent, Ashish is one of the most sought-after actors for mythological and historical shows. His USP lies in the fact that he loves to challenge himself with every project. He is currently seen in 'Prithvi Vallabh'. 
 
  He is married to actress Archana Taide.
 
 
 
 
  Along with his chocolate-boy looks, Priyank’s dimpled smile can melt many a heart. The actor has participated in several reality shows, but he became a household name with his stint on 'Bigg Boss 11'.
 
  He is rumoured to be dating fellow 'Bigg Boss' inmate Benafsha Soonawalla, but they claim to be just friends. 
 
