TUTICORIN: Six days after the police firing on anti-Sterlite protesters, which claimed 13 lives, normalcy is inching back to the coastal town. Much to the relief of the public and police, prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPc imposed since the firing on Tuesday was lifted on Sunday. Though the public movement is back in the town, traders said that normalcy has not been completely restored. As the bodies of the deceased in the police firing were not handed over to the respective families, a section of the residents near   have expressed apprehension over the days to come.

 
 A majority of the shops and fuel stations in   signal, Pole Pettai, new bus stand and old bus stand were open. But shops in the fishermen neighborhoods, including Therespuram and mini Sagayapuram were closed. Black flags were hoisted in the area condemning the deaths.
 
 Police personnel said that the situation in   is completely under control compared to the past few days. Since Saturday night, TNSTC has stepped up bus services to Tuticorin from Madurai and Tirunelveli districts. Similarly, since Sunday morning, private buses connecting suburbs had commenced their operations. “Finally, the city is back on its feet. But the presence of police personnel in crucial parts of the town has been putting it on back foot,” said S Kennedy, resident of Millerpuram.
 
 Routine customers of the hotels have been avoiding the town and heading to Tiruchendur since the police firing. “Normalcy is returning, but visitors from various parts of the state to Tiruchendur via Tuticorin are missing for the past three days. Our employees are back to work with after the bus services are restored,” said S Rajesh, hotelier near old bus stand.
 
 Later in the day, DGP T K Rajendran visited the injured victims at Tuticorin Medical College Hospital. Addressing the media, the DGP said, “Police firing that happened during the protest march were unfortunate. The district administration and police are taking efforts to restore harmony in the entire town.” He also appealed to the public to help them maintain law and order in the town. A committee has been investigating into the turn of events on May 22.
 
