In the latest episode of  ,   starts thrashing the goons and saves   and  . As he saves Mahi, she gets impressed by Aditya and falls in love with him.

 Mahi runs and hugs Aditya and he tries to calm her down. Zoya is worried as Mahi has wounds and takes her away, while Aditya asks her if she wants to thank him as he saved their lives. Zoya thanks him and Aditya thinks how the former is only worried for Mahi and she always cares for wrong people.
 
 As Mahi and Zoya reach home, Mahi is lost in thoughts and thinks about Aditya. Aditya reaches home and finds everyone eating food together and joins them. On the other side, Zoya sees the divorce papers again and ignores them. She then starts missing her sister   and tries to call her. But Noor is busy trying to get a taxi and is upset as she got rejected at the job.
 
 On the other hand, Zoya's father Siddiqui is called at the police station for interrogation and hears his voice message on Yash's phone. He clarifies the cops saying that he came to know about Yash's bankruptcy and he wanted to speak to him about the same as he was concerned for his daughter Zoya. Siddiqui confirms the cops that he was at his office the entire day when   and Pooja met with the accident.
 In another scene, Noor reaches home and gets angry at Zoya and says that she does not care about her sister. Zoya tries to cheer her up and both start listening to the radio.
 
 Aditya is lost in thoughts and smiles when Sakshi walks in with coffee. Sakshi misunderstands that Aditya's behavior has been changed as he has come to know that Pooja never wanted to leave him and she never signed the divorce papers.
 Aditya stares at the ring which Zoya had thrown and thinks how will he find answers to all the questions. As Aditya is listening to the radio and calls the RJ, who is none other than Arjun.
 
 He tells him that his best friend and wife left him forever. Arjun recognizes Aditya and tries to tells him that he needs to think about it from his best friend's point of view and also think the reason she left him. He further tells him that one day he will find someone whose smile would mean everything to him. On the other hand, Noor and Zoya feel light after hearing Arjun's answer on the radio.
 
