 had a tough outing on day one of the 2018 Indian Open finishing at T-35th (72) and the former winner here in 2015 felt that he missed out on a good opportunity to go low. 

 
 
 Writing in his column in TOI, Lahiri admitted that the conditions at the DLF Golf & Country Club, Gurugram were ideal. 
 
 
 
 
 
 “Given the conditions we had today, and there being absolutely no wind on the golf course, I thought I missed out on a great opportunity. The even par 72 should have been a lot better,” wrote the 30-year-old. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 He pointed that after an average start he was unable to get any kind of momentum going. “I got off to a mixed start, hitting a couple of bad drives. I then hit the ball all right but just could not get any momentum going. None of the putts dropped in. I missed a short one on the sixth hole, which could have turned things around, and then missed another short one on the seventh,” opined the Bangalore-based golfer. 
 
 2018 Mahindra Scorpio TOISA Golfer of Year   with a classy four-under-68 was the best-placed Indian and Lahiri was happy with the youngster’s performance. Sandhu was tied fifth in the clubhouse as 24 out of the total 144 golfers could not finish their rounds on Thursday due to fading light.
 
 “There were quite a few other excellent scores of 5-under — from  , who almost missed his tee time in the morning, Matteo (Manasserro) and Paul Peterson,”said Lahiri, adding “I was also happy to see Ajeetesh (Sandhu) play so well. His 4-under puts him in a great position and I look forward to him playing well over the next three days.” 
 
  (71) was the only other Indian who finished with a sub-par round.
 
 Tournament invitee Emiliano Grillo of Argentina, meanwhile, snatched the lead with a course-record equalling 7-under 65.
 
 “It was a great round by my friend Emilliano (Grillo). If there ever was a day to shoot 65 on this golf course, it was today. He seems to have taken full advantage and scored well with a lot of birdies and almost no mistakes,” wrote Lahiri. 
 
 Similar to Lahiri, two-time defending champion   also endured a tough day in the office. 
 
 “Right next to me, my friend SSP (Chawrasia) started sketchily but then fought back superbly to get from 4-over to even par before two three-putts spoiled that recovery, said Lahiri. “I think the key here is to get the momentum going early in the round. Whoever did well today had the early momentum. I need to do the same in the coming rounds,” he added. 
 
 
