KOLKATA: Hostels at every school must have counsellors and nurses. One warden has to be appointed to take care of every 50 hostel residents. The resident students will have to be sent for a health check-up once every quarter of the year and in case of suspected mental health trouble, a psychological test has to be conducted before any medication is administered.
 
  
 These are among the new guidelines proposed by the National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), aimed at bringing about uniformity in rules for hostels at all private as well as government-aided educational institutes under  . The main objective is to ensure a safe, healthy and “at home” environment for children staying far from their families. For now, only   (CISCE) has decided to implement the rules at its schools. So far, the management of hostels had remained outside the purview of the  .
 
 
 “A decision to monitor the hostels has been taken to ensure better security for students. It will help promote the rights of children, especially when they are away from home and families. Till now, schools running hostels had separate and individual schemes. Now, they will be bound by a uniform rule,” said a teacher. “The management of hostels did not fall under Juvenile Justice Act, 2015. But the   has to ensure proper living facility for the children. So, it has been decided to implement the NCPCR guidelines in our schools.”
 
 The new guidelines has put it down that the hostel fees can be collected only on a monthly or quarterly basis. It can’t be collected annually. Besides, one superintendent has to be appointed for every 200 hostelites and separate superintendents have to manage boys’ and girls’ hostels in a co-education school. Also, every hostel has to set up a committee comprising elected students that must meet every month to discuss their grievances as well as the benefits. The members have to be from different age groups: those from 6years to 10 years, 11to 15 years and 16 to 18 years.
 
 All schools have to apply for renewal of registration certificate for the hostels every year. The renewal will be granted only if the institutes meet the requisite criteria. “According to the NCPCR guidelines, a hostel will be shut down in case any child rights violation report surfaces or if a student complains about threat to life or unbearable living condition. And, if a school has to suspend the hostel facility, it will have to shift the residents to another accommodation till the ongoing session is completed. Also, no capitation fee will be allowed for providing hostel accommodation,” said the principal of a CISCE-affiliated school .
 
 The warden will have to take attendance twice daily and prepare diet charts that should include a chicken dish once a week. Each hostel will have to set up a management committee within a month of admission. The students will be provided with toiletries and internet should be available, maybe with certain restrictions.
 
 “The Council’s decision is a welcome move because now, security at school hostels will be monitored,” said  , secretary of  . “However, we have to evaluate how much jurisdiction the Council has in order to monitor hostels as it is an essentially affiliation and exam conducting body.”
 
 This will be discussed at the next founder body meeting at month-end.
 
