NEW DELHI: A self-proclaimed occultist and his associates duped a couple of Rs 16.5lakh in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri, in the name of treasure hunt.

 Senior police officers said that  , a medical store owner, filed a complaint saying he was cheated of Rs 17.5lakh by Kari Mohommad   and his two associates on the pretext of recovering a hidden Mughal-era gold coins. Zahid was staying at Abbas’s house as a tenant for the past two years. He told   that the house was haunted, which was creating problems for the family.
 
 “Zahid said that there was a treasure hidden beneath the house from the Mughal period, which should be retrieved to ward off the spirits. He said that we can later keep the treasure,” Abbas told police.
 
 Later, two more persons joined the occultistand the three locked themselves up in a room on the ground floor of the house. They came out of the room after a few hours and told Abbas and his wife that they have found the treasure. They took the couple inside the room where they had already dug a hole. One of the accused picked up a gold coin from the hole and gave it to the couple to convince them.
 
 Abbas’ wife took the gold coin to a local goldsmith who confirmed that the coin was made of pure gold. Convinced, the couple allowed the accused to look for the treasure. Zahid took Rs 1,90,000 from Abbas for allegedly donating food and clothes to 1,100 people as part of the ‘ritual’. Later, they took Rs 3 lakh from Abbas for getting special tools to dig the ground.
 
 The next day, the accused took Rs 11lakh from the couple, saying they needed to buy gold dust and other items for a special prayer that needed to be organised before bringing out the treasure chest. Abbas took a loan and handed over the amount to the Zahid.
 
 Abbas was shocked the next day, when he got a call from Zahid telling him that he had been arrested by police who found out about the treasure hunt. He asked for Rs 6 lakh, threatening to reveal Abbas’s involvement. Abbas then mortgaged his wife’s jewellery and handed over Rs 60,000 to Zahid’s associate, who said they were going to the police station with the money. When the accused stopped picking Abbas’s calls he realised he had been duped. Additional DCP (outer)   said that an FIR has been registered.
 
