PUNE: The administration has made 209   kits operational from January 1 to speed up the enrolment process. 

 All ward offices in the   area and about 50 Maha E-Seva kendras have been provided with Update Life Client ( ) kits that enable faster Aadhaar update and enrolment, district administration officials said on Tuesday. 
 
 In areas under the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic bodies, 161 kits are functional. The number is 48 in the rural belt of the district. 
 
 “The regular Aadhaar and ULC kits are operating at the ward offices and at the main collectorate office,” nodal officer   said. With the centres witnessing long queues in the last few weeks, the district administration has repaired the faulty machines and procured the ULC and the regular kits additionally.
 
 “Citizens who had to wait for nearly 20 minutes for every enrolment can now complete the process within minutes with the ULC kits,”   said, adding that the administration has decided to go all out to make the most of the deadline extension to link Aadhaar with various services till March 31.
 
 The administration has decided to deploy maximum operators and machines in the next two months to bring most of the people under Aadhaar coverage.
 
 “We hope the situation will improve in the coming two months,” said  , who had to wait for three hours to get her mother enrolled.  , another senior citizen, said she was keeping her fingers crossed that the home enrolment service will be put on a fast track. “We had applied for the service a month ago and are awaiting officials to visit our home,” the 70-plus pensioner said.
 
 The administration has in a bid to speed up the enrolment process sought permission from the   for additional machines. The administration has also decided to repair 70 dysfunctional machines and announced training of 151 new operators. 
 
 On the issues related to the senior citizens and people with disabilities, Bhalerao said they have got over 100 applications and about 20 have been catered to with the ULC kits at the applicants’ homes.
 
 The proposal to rope in private operators is also in the last stage of approval and about 32 names have been suggested. The district was working with just 40-50 machines about a month ago. As per an earlier GR, there should have been at least 300 active machines in a corporation area. 
 
 
