JAIPUR: The   government in  , which had announced that it would start distributing loan-waiver certificates to farmers from Saturday, is struggling now to arrange for finances.

 
 With an eye on maximum political gain from the loan waiver this election year, the   government is all set to take a bank loan of Rs 5,000 crore. At a meeting presided over by chief minister   on Wednesday, the state cooperatives department was told to take a loan, for which the state government would provide guarantees.
 
 Raje, during her last budget speech, had announced a one-time loan wavier of up to Rs 50,000 for small and marginal farmers along with a budgetary provision of Rs 2,000 crore. However, that amount is far from adequate. The burden on the state treasury due to the loan waiver to over 29 lakh farmers is expected to be close to Rs 8,000 crore. 
 
 “The state government had assured us to give the money in instalments of Rs 2,000 crore and has already given us the first tranche. We will now take a loan of Rs 5,000 crore from banks, for which the state will give guarantees,” said  , state cooperatives minister.
 
 Sources claimed that the government has failed to get the desired response from several banks it had approached.   is not an option as it does not provide credit for loan waivers.
 
 The cooperatives department is working overtime to arrange for the finances with the state government still falling short of Rs 1,000 crore. The pressure to fulfil the promise in an election year is only adding to the challenges faced by the government. Giving in to that pressure, the Raje government has already announced to hold camps on May 26 and 28 at gramin sewa sehakari samitis across the state to start distribution of loan-waiver certificates to select farmers.
 
 “On Saturday, 17,000 farmers would be handed over the certificates while on Monday, 16,500 farmers would be given the same. From June 1 onwards, camps would be held at village level. It may prove difficult as the government is not prepared,” said Kilak. 
 
 The burden on the state treasury due to the Raje govt’s loan-waiver plan to over 29 lakh farmers is expected to be Rs 8,000 crore.
  
 
