MUMBAI: In good news for the cash-strapped BEST undertaking, it is among the 11 transport undertakings from across the country to have garnered subsidy from the Central government. BEST will get Rs 36 crore to procure 40   and set up charging infrastructure. 

 "The subsidy will help procure the environment-friendly buses on 'wet lease'. Tenders have already been floated," said BEST general manager Surendrakumar Bagde.
 
 The undertaking beat 44 cities vying for the subsidy thanks to the efforts of three youths who were part of the chief minister's fellowship programme.
 
 The trio, Shyam Datye, Alimurtaza Kothawala and Armaan Jena, pitched for the subsidy when the department of heavy industries, central government, came with an Expression of Interest in November last year.
 
 Said Datye, "The government grants subsidies under the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles (FAME) India scheme. The department had invited applications from urban local bodies and undertakings in cities with a million-plus population."
 
 Subsidies were available to procure Battery Electric Vehicle (BEVs) buses, four-wheelers and three-wheelers as well as chargers for their city.
 
 Bagde credited the achievement to team work by his officials and the three youths. "Since we will be procuring buses only on wet lease, the private contractor will get benefit of the subsidy and the same will be passed on to us in the form of low monthly rental. This will help us run the electric buses and also set up charging stations across the city at economical costs," he stated.
 
 The BEST already has a fleet of four electric buses and two more are being procured in a few weeks with funding of Rs 10 crore from the BMC. The electric buses run on short feeder routes in SoBo. They have a charging station at Backbay depot, and, with the present subsidy, more charging points/stations will come up at 26 depots across the city, sources added. Kothawala said the subsidy would benefit the city as electrically-charged vehicles have low running costs and are environment-friendly.
 
 
