BENGALURU: Snubbing JD(S), the   has announced L  , GC Chandrashekhar and   as its candidates for the   elections.

 The JD(S) recently nominated BM Farook hoping that the Congress would support him. “Our candidate (Farook) will win as many MLAs in BJP and Congress will vote for us. This apart, independents will also vote for Farook.”
 
 
 Sources said the Congress high command went by the recommendations of two Dalit leaders — Kharge and Parameshwara — keeping in mind the Dalits’ agitation seeking implementation of the   report on internal reservations for scheduled castes. Hanumanthaiah belongs to the left sect of scheduled castes, who are peeved over poor representation in top positions.
 
 The party has opted for a new face among Muslims though there were other the strong contenders, including outgoing MP K Rahman Khan, minister R Roshan Baig, former MLC Saleem Ahmed and former minister Naseer Ahmed. The party did not consider a Lingayat for a seat although former minister Shamanur Shivashankarappa’s name is said to have been discussed. However, Shivashankarappa’s stand on the Lingayat issue, which goes against the expert committee’s report of giving the community minority status, is reported to have gone against him.
 
 Poll arithmetic
 
  can send four MPs to the Rajya Sabha once in two years. The Congress can win two seats and needs a few extra votes to clinch the third. The BJP can win just one seat, while the JD(S) does not have the required number of votes to get its candidate elected.
 
 The arithmetic favours the Congress as seven JD(S) rebel MLAs, who had voted for the Congress candidate in the previous Rajya Sabha polls, and six independents are expected to back the third candidate of the Congress. However, the chances of cross-voting cannot be ruled out.
 
 Each candidate needs 45 seats to win. With the present strength of parties in the assembly, the Congress can get two candidates elected, and the BJP one. The JD(S), with 30 MLAs excluding the seven rebels, was hoping that the Congress, which has 32 additional votes, would come to its rescue keeping postassembly election scenarios in mind. Now, it has to scrounge for votes.
 
 “We’ve seen many MLAs cross-voting in Rajya Sabha elections in the past,” a Congress leader said. “The possibility cannot be ruled out this time too. We have to wait till March 23 to see who will be the fourth candidate to win.”
 
 
