CHENNAI: In a move that has cheered real estate developers but left environmental activists fuming, the state environment department on Monday announced a draft revised   (CZMP) for the city, allowing a swathe of land up to   on   to be freed up for development.

 This area, now under   II, can have buildings close to the shoreline. All areas within Greater Chennai Corporation limits are under CRZ II, said an official from the which prepared the plan.
 
 Members of the public can send objections/suggestions to the plan, prepared by the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management, to the environment department until April 6. CRZ I is an ecologically-sensitive area where select activities are allowed, CRZII, comprising coastline within city limits, is a developed area, CRZ III an undeveloped area and CRZ IV a water area, an NCSCM official said.
 
 Activists, however, charge that it has nothing to protect the coastline or coastal communities and has not demarcated the hazard line along the coast either. It is only geared towards protecting errant   officials from the ire of the  , said activist  .
 
 Under CRZ Notification 2011, all coastal states were required to upload coastal zone management plans, including drawing maps, for public comment within a year of the notification. But, no state prepared the plan despite several extensions prompting the National Green Tribunal to threaten severe action against the officials concerned. 
 
 All plans were required to identify authorised construction within CRZ areas, present long-term housing plans for fisherfolk, identify the hazard line and spell out prospective plans for the region. Planners were to compare the present documents with those prepared under CRZ Notification 1991 and explain reasons for any deviation proposed. The latest ‘information’ on the environment department website doesn’t include any of these details, said  .
 
 The real estate sector is understandably thrilled as buildings constructed in violation of CRZ notifications can also be regularised.
 
 Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (Credai) (Chennai) vice-president S Sridharan said the move was positive as more space will be available for real estate activy inside the city. “This will help in development of housing plots lying unused as construction is not currently permitted due to CRZ regulations. Multi-storey buildings can come up,” he added.
 
 The Builders Association of India Southern Centre, Chennai said housing projects approved in the vicinity of the CRZ were being sanctioned. “After Chennai comes under CRZ II, the normal procedure for getting approval for projects will follow,” said BAI honorary secretary Ramaprabhu.
 
 
