The voices of   BJP leaders appear to have become louder and more assertive over the   issue now that the   elections are over.

 
 BJP leaders who were on the defensive all these days, with Centre delaying the constitution of the Cauvery Management Board, turned vocal on Sunday holding out assurances that the long pending inter-state dispute would be resolved. State   president Tamilisai Soundararajan said that if the BJP comes to power in Karnataka, not only will the Cauvery dispute be resolved, but a cordial relationship would also evolve between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka.
 
 BJP Rajya Sabha member L Ganesan and national secretary H Raja went a step ahead, stating that the Centre’s response to be submitted in the Supreme Court on Monday would itself resolve the river water dispute. “The draft scheme to be submitted by the Centre in the apex court would end the woes of Cauvery delta farmers,’’ said H Raja at Manamadurai in Sivaganga district. Accusing the Dravidian parties that ruled Tamil Nadu of betraying the state over the Cauvery issue, he said the draft scheme would also put an end to this betrayal.
 
 Speaking in Coimbatore, Ganesan said the draft scheme would do justice to TN’s demands. “Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has said the Cauvery dispute would be resolved after the Karnataka elections. I second his statement,” he said.
 
 The Centre and BJP had facing flak from all parties in Tamil Nadu for not constituting the CMB. Political parties in Tamil Nadu accused the BJP of delaying tactics with an eye on the Karnataka elections.
 
 Meanwhile, PMK founder S Ramadoss on Sunday expressed anguish that the Union Cabinet had not met to finalise a scheme to resolve the Cauvery dispute ahead of the Monday deadline to submit the recommendation to the Supreme Court. The deadline for submitting the scheme, which was March 29, had been postponed to May 14, following the Centre repeatedly requesting for time. "If the scheme is not submitted even on Monday, the water resources secretary should be arrested," Ramadoss said.
 
