Chandigarh: A 1.5-year-old boy lost his life as a result of drowning in a water bucket in colony number 4 on Tuesday. A complaint was submitted by the victim’s father Jatinder, 27, a resident of colony number 4, who works as a driver in police department.

 In his statement, Jatinder said he went for his work leaving behind his son Karan and wife, Radhika, at home. After feeding her son, Radhika got busy in her household chores. Karan, who had recently started walking on his own was playing around his mother.
 
 With Karan busy playing inside the house, Radhika went to her neighbours and returned 15 minute later and to her shock, Karan was nowhere to be found in the house, which only had one room. She rushed to the washroom next, where she found her son’s body in a bucket. She pulled out the body from the bucket and gave a cry for help, after which they rushed to GMSH-16, where doctors declared Karan brought dead. A case was registered at Industrial Area police station.
 
 In a similar incident, a seven-year-old missing boy, resident of Kalka, Panchkula, was found dead in an underground water tank at his house. 
 
 According to information, victim’s father Ashok on Saturday night registered a missing complaint of his son Kunal alias Sonu, when they could not find him anywhere. On opening the cover of the underground water tank on Tuesday, the family members found Kunal’s body floating in the water. No foul smell had been noticed emanating from the water tank. 
 
 Station house officer at Kalka police station Suresh Kumar said, “The deceased might have tripped over and fallen in the water tank while playing nearby. Body of the victim was handed over to the family members soon after the post-mortem examinations.”
 
 On Tuesday night, Mauli Jagran police also registered a case under Section 318 (concealment of birth by secret disposal of dead body) of the IPC against unknown person who had abandoned a newborn foetus at Nala near Railway Bridge, Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran.
 
 
