VISAKHAPATNAM: If any of you has watched the 2011 Bollywood blockbuster Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara, can you recall the most famous scene in the film? For most, it has to be the   festival. It is said around 16 tonnes of tomatoes worth ₹10 million were flown in from Portugal for the shoot.

 Come Friday, and the   will have its own Tomatina festival as part of Holi celebrations. This is the first time such a festival is being held in the city. The event, where participants throw overripe tomatoes at each other, is being organised by Sri Durga Events under the banner of Mila, a start-up which is aiming to popularise the event in the country.
 
 Two DJs from Bangalore have already arrived for the event in which around 1,000 people are expected to take part. The event will be held on Beach Road, opposite  , starting 10 in the morning.
 
 S Srinivas from Chennai, who is one of the event managers, told TOI that it will be the first of its kind event in   and fourth in the country. He said they purchase overripe tomatoes, which are not useful for consumers, from farmers in bulk. “Nearly 500 kgs of tomatoes would be procured for the event and participants will throw those tomatoes at each other. We hope to make it a memorable Holi celebration for Vizagites this year,” Srinivas said.
 
 He added that the Tomatina festival will also indirectly help the farmers as their overripe tomatoes, which normally would have gone waste, was fetching them money. As the city has been attracting tourists from across the globe, such unique festivals will further add to the city’s charm, Srinivas said, adding that there will be a food and music festival too as part of Tomatina.
 
 He said around 500 people have already registered for the festival, and said they were expecting the number to reach 1,000. “We hope that by the time the event starts on Friday we will reach that number,” Srinivas said.
 
 According to the organisers, district collector   is also expected to participate in the Tomatina festival.
 
 
