TNN

 Mumbai: Slamming   and   for “abusing the process of law”, the Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday directed them to pay Rs 50 lakh to the Centre as costs, dismissed petitions filed by them and ordered their surrender before a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court in Mumbai in a money laundering case. The companies are allegedly involved in the Rs 5,600-crore National Spot Exchange ( ) fraud.
 
 “In our opinion, the petitioners are fully guilty of misusing the process of law and interfering in the administration of justice. The petitioners are liable to pay exemplary cost of Rs 50 lakh each to the Union of India through Enforcement Directorate (ED),” Justice Arun Chaudhari said. It appears that they employed a ploy to stop their interrogation and arrest for the last two years in the NSEL scam. 
 
 Justice Chaudhari asked the petitioners to surrender before the special court at Mumbai in the PMLA case within a period of four weeks, adding the court is at liberty to decide the question of custody of the petitioners for custodial interrogation by the ED within a period of four weeks from the date of surrender.
 
 MRA Marg police station had registered a case of forgery and fraud in the NSEL scam on a complaint lodged by Pankaj Saraf on September 30, 2013. NSEL was a platform for trading commodities under various segments. According to ED, which is also probing the case for money laundering, the principal accused is  , the main promoter of Financial Technologies (FTIL) group. NSEL was a subsidiary of  . 
 
 After a probe, the ED filed a complaint (equivalent to a chargesheet filed by the police) in the Prevention of Money Laundering Special Court, in which there are 68 accused persons. It appears that the designated court took cognisance of the complaint on January 13, 2016, following which summons were issued to the accused persons, the HC said. It was found that without filing the copy of the January 13 order, the petitioners obtained interim orders for exemption from personal appearance and bail from the Punjab and Haryana high court.
 
 When the petitions came up for hearing on March 15, 2018, the ED raised an objection, saying since an offence has been registered in Mumbai and that the competent court has taken cognisance of the offence, the Punjab and Haryana high court has no jurisdiction to entertain such petitions. The petitioners submitted the HC has jurisdiction, since they are residents of Chandigarh and Ludhiana and properties attached by the authorities are located in Ludhiana.
 
 “The petitioners did not submit the January 13, 2016 order by which process was issued, the counsel for them did not have answer for their inability to produce the court order and no explanation was given for their failure to remain present before the Mumbai Court and challenge its jurisdiction,” Justice Chaudhari observed.
 
 “At the outset, this court is taken aback at the manner in which these petitions were filed in this court and from the conduct of the petitioners it clearly appears that they never wanted to approach the designated special court at Mumbai for Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) or the Bombay HC for the reasons best known to them. For us, the reasons are unfathomable…they have clearly played subterfuge by filing these petitions in a weird manner in  , which are clearly no maintainable,” Justice Chaudhari observed in his 15-page order.
 
 “They have abused the process of this court and have also fraudulently obtained interim orders from this court...no part of cause of action has arisen within the territorial jurisdiction of Punjab and Haryana HC,” Justice Chaudhari remarked. Further, Justice Chaudhari said the petitioners have deliberately, with a mala fide intention, lodged the petitions here that has resulted in sheer abuse of process of law, the petitioners have obtained interim orders which are continuing for the last two years, as a result, custodial interrogation could not be made. 
 
 
