BENGALURU: The governor is left with a Hobson’s choice in the selection of vice-chancellors to state-run universities. In a political move to clip the powers of the governor, the state government on Wednesday got the   passed, where the choice for the governor to select a person to the post has been reduced from three to one.

 As per the Bill, the government will send only one name to the governor for the VC’s post, as against three names in the present Act, and the latter has to approve it. “Even if he (governor) chooses to return it, he can do so only once, and that with a valid reason. The second time he has to approve it within a month,” higher education minister Basavaraj   said, while piloting the   for approval in the legislative council.
 
 The Bill, which seeks to bring all staterun universities, barring agricultural universities and RGUHS, under one Act, had been referred to the   committee when it came up in the council for consideration, after being passed by the assembly. Rayaraddi tabled the Bill incorporating the House committee’s recommendation.
 
 At present, state-run universities are governed by seven different Acts, and the proposed legislation will streamline governance in universities besides bringing in transparency, the minister added.
 
 The Bill also makes it mandatory to start the process of appointment of the new VC three months before the tenure of the incumbent VC is complete. “This is to ensure that no VC post lies vacant and also to stop delay in appointment of VCs, as is the case now,” the minister said. At present, seven universities in the state have no VCs, owing to the lack of consensus on the names chosen by the government.
 
 In order to select more experienced persons to the VC’s post, the Bill proposes to appoint candidates with 25 years of teaching experience, with 10 years as professor, to the post. At present, those with 10 years of experience as professor are eligible for the post.
 
 
 
 
 More significantly, the Bill seeks to place restrictions on financial decisions of the university authorities. “Every major purchase proposed by the universities must get the approval of the purchase committee to be set up by the government,” the minister said.
 
 This apart, the universities should submit financial statements to the government every month. “This is to ensure greater transparency in financial matters of the universities,” Rayaraddi said.
 
 
