BHOPAL: A year ago,   was barely known in the field of judo. But today, after a year of hard work and perseverance, the 21-year-old blind girl is all set to represent India at the   World Cup to be held in Antalya, Turkey.

 Poonam will contest in the 52-kg weight category at the tournament to be organised by the   (IBSA) from April 21 to April 26. With an aim to bring laurels to the country, the silver medallist at national level left from Bhopal on Thursday.
 
 But for Poonam Sharma, the journey had never been easy. The 21-year-old’s life changed in many ways after meeting judo coach  , who runs an academy for blind judokas in Bhopal.
 
 “When I first met her, Poonam was a shy girl. Her brother brought her to me last year to teach her some self-defence skills. Within few days, I realised that she could be a judo medallist,” said coach Bhatele, whose judo academy for the blind is the first of its kind in Bhopal.
 
 However, Poonam’s path to success in Judo within a short span of time was filled with challenges. Her father  , who is a class IV employee in MP Police, had a paralysis attack two years ago. “It was the second time he had such an attack. He had a similar attack in 2011,” said Poonam’s brother Neeraj. “We are four siblings. One can understand the level of sacrifices my parents have made,” Neeraj added.
 
 But seeing Poonam’s commitment, her brother also took up judo lessons from her coach. Bhatele said that even though Neeraj could not win a medal, Poonam went on to win silver at national level. The potential in Poonam was such that coach Bhatele refused to take any fee from the siblings.
 
 “I am happy that she learned judo in such short span of time. That is my real fee. I am hoping that Poonam will win medal at the world cup,” said Bhatele, a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) in MP Police.
 
 Regarding the training, he said: “It was tough for me to begin with Poonam as I had never trained a blind student in the past. However, her commitment motivated me. Poonam is a fast learner.”
 
