CHANDIGARH: The ambitious project of Chandigarh administration to authorise automobile agencies to register vehicles will soon see light of the day. After toiling hard, the transport department of the administration has worked the modalities which have been sent to secretary transport for approval.

 Registering and   (RLA) in-charge   said the agencies will be allowed to register the vehicles soon after getting the approval from the secretary.   (NIC) has designed a software, which has been successfully tested.
 
 
  
 
 The software is linked with Vahan2, a pan-India online motor vehicle registration database. “We have already conducted a pilot run,” said Popli, who added that the will hold organise another round of training for employees of automobile dealers.
 
 A team of National Informatics Centre (NIC) had recently imparted training to the staff of automobile dealers regarding registration of vehicle. The central government is also working on introducing law for making registration of vehicles by dealers mandatory. The system is already in place in Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.
 
 There are a total of 52 automobile agencies of different car and two-wheelers manufacturers operating from phases I and II of Industrial Area.
 
 Talking to TOI, V S Saluja, president, Chandigarh Car Dealers’ Association, said the software was tested in month of January. “RLA imparted training to our staff,” said Saluja. With introduction of the system, the workload of the agencies will increase. Automobile dealers have urged the administration to compensate additional cost which the agencies will have to bear after launch of the scheme.
 
 At present, vehicle registration is done by RLA. Currently for getting a vehicle registered, applicant has to undergo tedious process starting from filing the forms, get vehicle passed and submitting of documents to RLA. The current system has led to flourishing of touts. Once the service is launched, customers will be provided with registration number on the spot, while the registration certificate (RC) will be dispatched by RLA through post.
 
