NEW DELHI: The   Federation of India’s ( ) search for new foreign coaches may have ended with Iran’s   (men’s freestyle), Russia’s   (women’s freestyle) and Georgia’s   (Greco-roman), but to get them to India to train its wrestlers has become a challenge with the   in Jakarta less than four months away.

 
 
 The WFI wanted the three coaches to join the men’s and women’s freestyle and Greco Roman teams before the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games. But some procedural delay in appointing these coaches has made the WFI jittery. The WFI is fearing that any further delay could possibly result in these coaches accepting the offer from some other country. According to the WFI, the coaches are anxiously waiting for their contracts.
 
 While this delay on the part of Sports Authority of India (SAI) in clearing these names seems to have happened because SAI wants to process this case according to laid-down procedures, the WFI is running out of patience.
 
 According to the WFI official, SAI had first demanded a justification from the federation for quoting high salaries for coaches and, later, it had asked the WFI to send the bio-data of all those coaches who had applied for the coaching position.
 
 TOI tried to contact SAI’s assistant director Nitin Kumar Jaiswal, who according to a WFI official is dealing with the matter, but Jaiswal didn’t react requesting the reporter to go through “proper official channels” for any information. SAI’s director general Neelam Kapur, too, didn’t offer any comment after being approached by TOI for the same.
 
 “Even if the SAI clears the proposal in a couple of days, we would like to have these coaches appointed before the commencement of our national camp for the Asian Games in May first week. We struggled to convince these three coaches to take up their roles with the Indian wrestlers. And the delay in their arrival has got us really worried,” informed the WFI official.
 
 The appointment of Valentinovich could burn a big hole in the SAI’s pocket. If the Russian is taken on board, he would be getting a whopping $10,000 per month, more than double of what the previous foreign coaches were getting. In fact, Valentinovich’s remuneration would be way more than what Karimi and Kazarashvili would get combined. While the WFI has quoted Karimi’s salary at $3,500 per month, Kazarashvili’s appointment could cost $4,000.
 
 The posts of foreign wrestling coaches have been lying vacant since the 2016 Rio Olympics.
 
 
