BENGALURU: Infosys’ former head of global immigration  , who filed a racial discrimination lawsuit against the company last year, has been told by a federal judge in Texas that he will have to arbitrate his claims.

 In other words, Green cannot use the public court system. The judge held that an arbitration process was mandated by a clause in his employment contract. 
 
 Green had filed the lawsuit in June last year, alleging that   favoured employees who are of South Asian and of Indian descent. He alleged that Infosys deprived him of an equal right to work based on his race and that it retaliated against him because he complained about race discrimination. Infosys had terminated Green’s employment on June 28, 2016.
 
 As the global head of immigration, Green in his LinkedIn profile said he oversaw one of the largest inhouse US immigration/I-9 compliance and operations teams, of 40 subordinates. Green is currently an attorney with American law firm Arnall Golden Gregory.
 
 The court documents accessed by TOI showed that the judge, in his order on Monday, said Infosys and Green had signed a mutual arbitration agreement at the time of his employment in 2011. Both the parties agreed to arbitrate before a neutral arbitrator for any claims and disputes arising out of or related to employment and claims of discrimination. An email sent to Green's law firm Kilgore & Kilgore seeking their inputs on the case did not elicit a response.
 
 In August last year, Infosys moved court to compel arbitration and dismiss Green’s complaint. Green argued that it was not a valid employment agreement because he did not voluntarily assent to it. He admitted he signed the agreement, but said he did so only after he had already worked three days for Infosys, and after he was threatened with termination having spent $10,000 moving his family from Canada to Texas. Infosys, however, countered saying Green received notice of the agreement before starting work with the company.
 
 The judge said Green had not provided the court with any case law to suggest that an employee signing an arbitration agreement as a condition of employment must have notice of such agreement prior to starting his employment. 
 
 When TOI contacted Infosys, an official said, “Green’s claims are without merit. The federal district court granted Infosys’s motion to compel this matter to arbitration and Infosys is confident that it will prevail.”
 
