HYDERABAD: The   has accused the   of running a “rapist rakshak” campaign after first unleashing a “cow protection” regime inthe country.

 Speaking in the context of the Kathua rape of the 8-year-old in January, and the   approving an ordinance on the death penalty for those convicted of raping children, CPM polit bureau member Brinda   accused the ruling party of diverting the country’s attention from the BJP’s campaign to “prepare bands of men” who offer protection to rapists. Referring to such men as “rapist Rakshaks”, Karat said, “The government’s decision to bring an ordinance on a death sentence for people who rape children under 12 years lacks credibility. The issue is of certainty of punishment, and the government’s ordinance in no way guarantees that.”
 
 Demanding strict action against those protecting the rapists, Karat said the statute books already provide death penalty for the rarest of rare cases. “In principle, the CPM is against death penalty. However, in this context, the actual problem is not that there is no death penalty on the statute books. The actual issue is that those in government are defending the rapists,” she said.
 
 The CPM on Saturday also passed a resolution strongly condemning the horrific rapes of minors in Kathua and  . “The shame of Kathua is that the victim was selected because of her religion and the accused were protected because of their religion. Top BJP leaders came on streets to defend rapists. This is a horrific reflection of the communalisation of our polity today,” she added.
 
 Karat said that though the national outrage had forced Prime Minister   to break his silence, it was too little, too late and had only insulted the memory of the child and the family of the victim. 
 
 
 Have a heart to save a heart. If you know a child below 12 years of age, who needs cardiac surgery, but cannot afford it, it’s time for you to register on Happy Heart India - an initiative of The Times of India with Asian Heart Institute to save 200 underprivileged children
 
