BENGALURU: On his last leg of the Janaashirvada Yatra, AICC president   was photographed hobnobbing with the who’s who of Bengaluru. The event gave Rahul an opportunity to share his and his party’s views ahead of the 2019   in addition to plenty of photogenic selfies which flooded social media. 

 While the Congress was buoyed with the response, a few individuals involved in the BJP’s efforts to gain visibility and traction for their party were left cursing their luck.
 
 Reason: A similar idea which was planned for the BJP, with the possibility and hope of getting PM Narendra Modi for the event, was hijacked by the Congress. And, it has happened once too often for BJP’s comfort. 
 
 Over the past three months, the state BJP has put together an ‘ideabook’ to help it wrest the state back from the Congress, but hasn’t been successful in executing it to the fullest extent.
 
 The ideabook is a blend of customised and borrowed ideas. The latter being those that the BJP successfully executed in assemble elections in Uttar Pradesh and other states. It has had some success. Note the recently concluded ‘Musthi Dhanya Abhiyaan’, which saw BJP state president B S Yeddyurappa don the “mantle” of a farmer leader. But this, inadvertently, got overshadowed by party national president Amit Shah’s slip-of-the-tongue in calling Yeddyurappa’s government the No.1 corrupt government.
 
 “There appears to be a general lack of co-ordination within the party, causing a lot of confusion as to who is doing what,” said a party worker. For example, the BJP IT cell under Amit Malviya is responsible for the social media updates of the entire party machinery pushing a single narrative. But Yeddyurappa’s social media account has been outsourced to a Bengaluru-based political consultant, Rajaneethi.
 
 The result: The “Breaking News” gaffe of Yeddyurappa, who promised to hold a news conference and give ‘big’ news, but never did. 
 
 Innovative ideas like Kamala Jatre or village fairs, which were successfully conducted under the name Kamal Melas in UP, have also failed to gain visibility here. While the Jatres were experimented in  , the same fizzled out in southern parts of the state.
 
 The BJP, along with its central leadership, has tried to reinforce its backroom ideating machinery for the Karnataka polls by deploying a Delhi-based professional firm. However, the firm is yet to assume complete control. 
 
 “We expect a better delivery of the narrative and execution of the successful ideas once the national leaders start touring the state,” said a party worker.
 
 
