NOIDA: Lack of   in printers with the traffic department has stalled the process of issuing   by post to violators found speeding on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway since   last year.

 Sources said that though the CCTV cameras installed on the expressway had identified thousands of speed violators and challans had been processed against, the traffic management centre (TMC) could not send any letter after September 10 last year because of lack of   in printers.
 
 Officials agreed that challans, which are sent to violators by post, had a detrimental effect on errant drivers or riders. The lack of it seems to have given travellers a free ride. Documents accessed by TOI revealed that a single violator had been caught speeding by CCTV cameras installed on the expressway as many as 68 times from February 2017 to February this year.
 
 According to the sources, 35,124 challans were sent by post to the violators till September 10 last year, after which the printers ran out of cartridge. 
 
 The process of issuing challans after violators are identified has been outsourced to a private agency, but stationery and other materials are bought by the Noida Authority from agencies selected through tenders.
 
 A Greater Noida resident Rohit Sahni, who owns a vehicle with the registration number UP16AN6397, has been caught speeding 68 times between February 15 last year and February 25 this year. Twenty-three of these violations were between September 11 and February 25, after the challans stopped. The maximum speed limit for the vehicles is 100kmph on the expressway.
 
 Sahni is closely followed by Vishvajeet Singh, a resident of Kotla Mubarakpur in Delhi and owner of a vehicle with the number DL36BD7112. Sahni has been captured speeding on the expressway as many as 72 times between August 30, 2016, and February 28 this year.
 
 Eighteen of these violations were between September 21 last year and 28 February this year.
 
 According to sources, 52,000 challans had been generated by the traffic management centre till December last year, of which around 35,000 had been sent to violators by post till September. The others, however, are yet to reach them.
 
 Officials of the private company engaged by the traffic department to oversee operations such as issuing of challans said the letters could be sent only after new cartridges were installed in the printers. “The files are in process to get the cartridges  ,” an official said.
 
 Rajiv Bhardwaj, who oversees operations at the traffic management centre on behalf of the private agency, expressed hope that the catridges would be replaced soon. He directed to the in-charge of Noida Authority’s traffic cell, Sandeep Chandra, to seek a response on how long it would take for the printers to function.
 
 Repeated calls and messages to Chandra, however, failed to elicit a response.
 
 In July last year, TOI had reported how 34,126 challans could not be sent to violators as printers at the centre were not functioning.
 
 
