NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: Thousands of protesters took to the streets in   and Ghaziabad on Monday, vending their anger against the Supreme Court ruling diluting some stringent provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The simmering discontent turned into violence in places like Dadri in Greater Noida and Vijay Nagar in Ghaziabad. In Vijay Nagar, the protesters blocked blocked several trains, hurled stones at policemen and torched a police motorcycle. The police resorted to lathicharge and firing in the air to disperse the crowd.

 In Gautam Budh Nagar, sporadic protests took place in Pari Chowk, Dadri, Jewar and Noida, resulting in traffic snarls in Pari Chowk, Surajpur-Kasna Road, Dankaur-Sikandrabad Road etc.
 
 Nearly 200 people marched to the Dadri tehsil in the morning and handed over a memorandum to sub-divisional magistrate Amit Kumar Singh. On their return, they turned violent and some of them smashed windows of a UP Roadways bus on the main GT road.
 
 So far, the police have booked at least 657 people and arrested 20 of them under Sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 336 (endangering life or personal safety of others), 427 (mischief causing damage) of the IPC among other charges. 
 
 Circle officer, Dadri, Nishank Sharma said those arrested belonged to multiple groups like the Dr Ambedkar Manav Kalyan Samiti and Bheem Baan Samaj Seva Samiti. In Greater Noida too, hundreds of protesters marched from the district collectorate to Pari Chowk where traffic remained blocked for some time. A few protesters tore apart posters of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath at the collectorate. 
 
 SSP Ajay Pal Sharma too was caught in a jam as protesters disrupted the Surajpur-Kasna road.
 
 In a memorandum to the district magistrate, the protesters said the Supreme Court’s ruling had rendered the Prevention of Atrocities against SC/ST Act ineffective. 
 
 In Ghaziabad, hundreds blocked roads in several parts of the city like Vijay Nagar, Kavi Nagar, Loni, Modi Nagar and Khoda demanding withdrawal of the SC ruling. 
 
 In Vijay Nagar, trouble started when hundreds of protesters gathered along the railway tracks near Gaushala underpass and started blocking trains. Soon, circle officer I (city) Manisha Singh and SHO, Vijay Nagar, Naresh Kumar Singh and others rushed to the spot. When the police tried to remove the activists from the tracks, they started pelting stones. 
 
 In retaliation, the police resorted to lathicharge. A railway official said 11 trains — seven mails and four EMUs — got delayed for over an hour between Ghaziabad and Sahibabad. Train movement was badly hampered between 10am and 11.15am, he added.
 
 Later, in the same area, a group of protesters shouting slogans set a police patrol bike on fire. Two constables riding the vehicle fled the spot to save their lives.
 
 In Modi Nagar, a 5,000-strong mob blocked NH-58 for several hours. The police, however, managed to pacify them after some time.
 
 On NH-24, protesters blocked the road for several hours, leading to a huge jam. The police had a tough time controlling the situation as the mob, mostly comprising young men, pelted stones on them intermittently and hid in nearby colonies. The police resorted to lathicharge and fired in the air to disperse the crowd. 
 
 Seven policemen, including GRP sub-inspector Ghanshyam, RPF inspector Mohammad Aslam and the driver of a traffic police crane, Kalicharan, were injured in the stone-pelting. 
 
 In the meantime, members of several Dalit organisations including Bahujan Mukti Party and SC/ST Advocates’ Welfare Association staged a protest at district collectorate. Here too police had to lathicharge the crowd as they moved towards Hapur road and blocked the traffic for over two hours.
 
 FIRs against 100 named and 1,000 unidentified persons have been registered in 12 police stations in Ghaziabad. Thirty people have been sent to judicial remand so far.
 
 
