PATNA: Even as faculty shortage in universities and colleges is common in many parts of the country, it is more pronounced in the institutions of higher education in Bihar. It is to be seen to believe how colleges with 3,000 to 4,000 students on roll are being managed by only four to five teachers.

 The new regulations of the   (UGC) provide for ensuring at least one teacher for every 10 students at the postgraduate (PG) level and one for every 25 students at the undergraduate (UG) level, but the teacher-student ratio is far from satisfactory in the colleges and universities of Bihar.
 
 As things stand now, there are more than 10 lakh students in nearly 300 constituent colleges and 10 universities of the state. However, the total number of teachers is about 6,000 which means there is one teacher for more than 160 students.
 
 For the PG departments, the UGC regulations make it mandatory for universities to have at least one teacher for every 10 students for science and media and mass communication studies and one teacher for every 15 students for humanities, social sciences as well as for commerce and management.
 
 The UG programmes need to have at least one pedagogy for every 15 students in the media and mass communication departments, while the teacher-student ratio should be 1:30 for social sciences and 1:25 for the science stream.
 
 In Bihar, all the colleges and PG departments of different universities are facing acute shortage of teachers as no appointment of teachers has been made in different subjects for 15 years. In Patna University (PU), there are only 360 teachers to teach more than 20,000 students. In  , there are less than 2,000 teachers for altogether two lakh students.
 
 Sources claimed the   (BPSC) had advertised 3,400 posts of assistant professors almost four years ago, but the process of appointment was so slow that not even half the advertised posts could be filled up so far. “Even if these appointments are finalized, the teacher-student ratio will not meet the UGC norms,” said Patna University Teachers’ Association president Randhir Kumar Singh.
 
 According to him, instead of creating new posts of teachers, following the manifold increase in number of students in recent decades, the state government has drastically curtailed the earlier sanctioned posts in the name of so-called rationalization of teaching posts.
 
 Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar working president Kanhaiya Bahadur Sinha and general secretary Sanjay Kumar Singh said all the tall claims of the state government of improving the standard of higher education and imparting quality education to talented boys and girls would fall flat if the teacher-student ratio did not improve. They also demanded immediate appointment of sufficient number of teachers in all the institutions of higher education for improving the over-all academic scenario of the state and increase the gross enrolment ratio in higher education.
 
 
