KOLKATA: If a person is mentally ill, does he automatically get absolved? This question was raised in 2015 when Partho De was discovered to be living with the corpses of his sister and two pet Labradors at his   Questions were then raised on whether or not De’s mental illness should grant him legal protection.

 The same question has resurfaced. This time, after the macabre Behala incident where Subhabrata Majumdar had kept his mother’s body preserved in a freezer for three years. Doctors who assessed Majumdar at the Institute of Psychiatry (IOP) on Friday have concluded that he is suffering from psychotic disorder and needs treatment. On the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), a tool used by the doctors to assess his mental condition, Majumdar scored a ‘very high’ 64 – almost double the cut-off of a person who is mentally stable. His score is even higher than that of De.
 
 Can high scores on BPRS be reasons for any accused to avoid criminal proceedings? According to Section 84 of IPC, nothing is an offence which is done by a person who, at the time of doing it, by reason of unsoundness of mind, is incapable of knowing the nature of the act, or that he is doing what is either wrong or contrary to law. Psychiatrist Dr  , who had treated De, insists that legal insanity is different from medical insanity. “A person can be diagnosed with schizophrenia/depression and yet retain insight. He will then not be classified legally insane. A high score of BPRS where the accused doesn’t also score high on questions   will not be legally insane. He will be   only if he also scores high on questions related to psychosis and insight. The psychosis has to be the cause of the action,” Mitra said.
 
 According to advocate Somopriyo Chowdhury, merely taking a plea that one was insane on the date of offence isn’t enough. “The burden is on the accused to show that he was insane to the extent that the   of his mind were so destroyed as it would not have permitted him to understand the nature of his act. If the accused pleads lunacy on the date of the incident of the crime, the sole burden is on him to prove it. It is to be examined by the investigating agency whether or not Majumdar can be considered legally insane to the extent that he had completely lost his cognitive faculties. After all, he was reading up online to know medical techniques to help him implement them and mummify his mother’s body,” Chowdhury said.
 
 However, being legally insane at the time of commission of the act is not easy to prove especially if the act had happened years back. “There is no guarantee that a person who is medically or legally insane now was also in a similar condition when the crime happened. That’s retrospective mental state assessment and detailed forensic report is sought in the UK in such cases. An accused is trailed for months in secure forensic units to identify malingers. In our country, caution must be exercised so that lunacy is not used as an alibi to escape punishment,” Mitra said.
 
