Hubballi: The twin cities will soon get 15 more e-toilets apart from the 15 currently being installed.

 The Hubballi-Dharwad   Limited (HDSCL) special officer S H Naregal told TOI that the e-toilets will be installed in 15 locations including Nehru stadium, HDMC office, Janata Bazaar and other locations which will be decided soon. 
 
 “A tender in this regard is awarded to a Kochi-based company. The company will install the e-toilets in a month or two,” the official said.
 
 HDSCL sources said that e-toilets in the twin cities will be pay-and-use mode and the user fee will be Rs 2.
 
 Eram Group, a business conglomerate with presence across continents, is installing the e-toilets. 
 
 In an email response, Eram Group stated that the   it will install is an innovatively designed and engineered public sanitation model that involves unmanned operations, clean and hygienic facilities, easy and continual operation of the toilets while minimizing unnecessary maintenance costs. 
 
 The e-toilets incorporate a full-cycle approach in sustainable sanitation by integrating electrical, mechanical and web-mobile technologies, the company stated it its email.
 
 How e-toilets work
 
 Made of stainless steel, its e-toilets have electronic systems for enhancing user experience and for tracking the health status of eToilets. They have automated access control systems, sensor enabled water minimization, self-washing and floor wash mechanisms. The well-lit interiors with LED lights glow only when a person enters. It has ample natural ventilation and offers privacy and safety. The e-toilet has a facility of pre-flushing before entering, automatic flushing on usage, in-built water tanks, sensors for water and electricity conservation, automatic platform cleaning and power back-up with coin operated entry. Keeping in mind individual needs these toilets are programmed to flush 3 litres of water after three minutes of usage or 4.5 litres if usage is longer. The eToilets can be connected over a GPRS network, which ensures real-time monitoring of usage and health status of the eToilets.
 
 
