BENGALURU: Tough bargaining has begun within the  , BJP and JD(S) for the four   for which polling is scheduled for March 23. 

 Independent member Rajiv Chandrasekhar, BJP members Rangasayee Ramakrishna and Basawaraj Patil (Sedam) and Congress member M Rahman Khan will retire on April 2, completing their six-year terms. With the Congress in power in Karnataka, the party can comfortably win two seats and BJP one. It is to be seen which party will walk away with the fourth seat. 
 
 The Congress, BJP and JD (S), however, have not announced their candidates yet and there are many ticket aspirants. Rumours are abuzz that the BJP may nominate Rajiv Chandrasekhar and entrepreneur Vijay Sankeshwar, though the party can hope to win just one seat. BJP state general secretary N Ravikumar, however, said the party has not finalised the names yet. The name of Muralidhar Rao, the BJP general secretary in charge of Karnataka, has also been doing rounds.
 
 Congress leaders are unsure who Chief Minister   has in mind. Sitting member Khan is also said to be one of the aspirants but party sources say the party may replace him with another Muslim candidate and pick up a Lingayat candidate for the second seat. Giving ticket to a Muslim member will, the party hopes, please voters from that community and fielding a member of numerically-strong Lingayat community would be strategically the right thing to do on the back of fears that the Congress may have distanced itself from the community in recent years. There are also, however, rumours that the Congress may prefer a Dalit (Right) member to consolidate votes from that community and Siddaramaiah regime has projected itself as pro-dalit and pro-minority through its welfare programmes. 
 
 “We are confident of winning three seats but the party high command will take the final decision on fielding the third candidate,” said senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member  . 
 
 A candidate will require 44 first preference votes to win and both JD (S) and Congress’s third candidate would fall short of some votes to make the cut. The two party are talking to each other with the Congress doing the tough bargaining. 
 
 The JD(S) is requesting the Congress to back its candidate on the grounds that it is already backing the Congress in the BBMP Council. Siddaramaiah, however, is said to be in no mood to relent, given the history of his differences with JD(S)’s first family which led to his quitting that party and joining the Congress. There is also another thinking in the Congress circles that it will have to reach out to the JD(S) for support in case the party were to fall short of majority in the assembly post elections to form a coalition government. It is to be seen who will blink first. 
 
 The   will issue the notification on March 5 and March 12 is the last date for filing of nominations. 
 
 
