PATIALA: A video of the 18-year-old   boy, who shot his school principal to death on January 20, shows his moneylender father indulging in celebratory firing. The video also indicates that the boy may have fired in the air with the pistol his father was using at the event. The video seems to support police theory that the boy’s father was negligent regarding his son’s access to firearms. 

 The 26-second video that went viral after being shared on social messaging apps shows the murder accused dancing along with his father and other people, including small children, at an undated pre-wedding celebration at night.
 
 First, the boy’s moneylender father is seen firing several rounds in the air while dancing to a Punjabi song along and then the video shows the boy indicating to his father that he wants to fire the pistol too. The transfer of the pistol is not shown on the video, but a young persn’s hand holding the pistol can be seen firing a shot in the air. The transfer of the pistol from the boy’s hand to that of his father too happens off camera, but the moneylender is seen taking back the pistol and then firing in the air again.
 
 A prohibitory order that bans carrying of arms at wedding functions has been in force in   since December 2016.
 
 The Haryana police had booked the prominent moneylender for the violations of the Arms Act after the boy murdered his school principal using his father’s revolver. During his interrogation, the boy’s father maintained that he had kept the licensed revolver empty and safely locked inside an almirah at his house.
 
 However, the police found that the boy had easy access to his father’s revolver, which he had taken out on January 20 and carried with him to school. The police said they have received unconfirmed reports that earlier too the boy had taken out his father’s revolver and opened fire in the air. Yamunanagar superintendent of police   said the police have already booked the father under the violation of the Arms Act.
 
 The murdered accused and his father, who are now in judicial custody have been kept in the same barrack inside the jail. According to sources, the boy is seen repeatedly crying in front of his father, asking him questions about his future. The sources also revealed that the boy did not like the food being served to him in the jail. The next date of court hearing in the case is February 6.
 
 Father’s bail plea dismissed
 
 Yamunanagar district court on Thursday dismissed the bail application moved by the father of the 18-year-old boy, who had shot his school principal to death last week. He had been booked by the district police immediately after the murder under various sections of the Arms Act.
 
 
