HYDERABAD: With an addition of over 6,000 new   cases in Hyderabad and 17,000 new cases recorded every year in Telangana,   Arun Jaitley's Union budget announcement of Rs 600 crore special allocation to fight the disease comes as a 'good' first step, say experts. 

 The monthly allocation of Rs 500 announced is meant to provide nutritional support to all TB patients for the duration of their treatment, although the amount is too meagre to deal with the magnitude of the disease, many said. As per the TB India 2017 report there are over 45,000 notified TB patients in the state. "While it is a welcome step to begin with, the Rs 500 per patient for nutrition is just not enough. Also if we think of nutritional supplements by pharma companies, the amount is too little for making a difference and needs to be increased substantially. To top it, there will be an issue of monitoring that the allowance provided is used only for nutrition purpose," said Dr Sanjeev Singh Yadav, president   (IMA)-Hyderabad unit. Dr  , superintendent, Government Chest hospital said the allocation will not do miracles in eradicating TB as the main cause for tuberculosis is not malnutrition. "Patients usually take the medicine for a month and the minute the symptoms die down, they stop taking the medicines. Hence, it is the drugs and the implementation of the programme that needs to the focussed on," Khans said. Also the high cost of medicine, about Rs 3000 per month, makes many patients discontinue the treatment, added experts. The problem of patients being dumped by family members and the stigma attached to the disease too has to be addressed. "With daily regimen patients having to collect medicines every week, the Rs 500 will not even cover their travel expenses, leave alone nutrition. If we are serious about nutrition them ration should be provided under central government   for all TB patients," said Mujtaba Hasan Askari, founder Helping Hand Foundation, that works in several government hospitals.
 
 
