LUDHIANA: Raising his voice silently, Model Town resident and social worker   on Saturday stationed himself on the bus stand flyover to draw attention of the authorities towards accidents which occur daily due to poor condition of the bridge.

 The flyover has developed potholes and its rubber expansion joints have been damaged. Two-wheelers often lose control while passing through the damaged portions.
 
 Placing placards around his neck,   stood on one portion of the road to mark his protest.
 
 Talking to TOI, he said, “This bus stand flyover is used by thousands of commuters daily, but the authorities don’t carry out regular repair of the bridge. As a result, potholes have grown wider and even the rubber expansion joints have been damaged.”
 
 He said when he was protesting on Saturday, a woman riding a two-wheeler lost control and she fell down.
 
 Grewal said the authorities must understand the need of the hour and repair the bridge immediately. “Otherwise some major untoward incident can happen anytime,” Grewal said.
 
 He said officials do not take action till something major happens. When some tragedy takes place, the government announces compensation and government job to the family members of the deceased.
 
 Grewal, who is a baseball coach otherwise, had conducted a sanitation drive on the closed portion of Jagraon Bridge. Even that sanitation drive was done as a mark of protest against the official apathy for not starting construction of the bridge. He along with his sons continued this exercise for almost two months, but then he and his sons developed some skin problem and had to stop the drive.
 
 Former mayor   had visited the bus stand flyover in May 2017 after receiving several complaints. He had also noticed that on both sides of the bridge, rubber expansion joints had been damaged and a gap was created in the joints.
 
 He had asked the officials concerned to replace the rubber expansion joints immediately, but officials could not get the same done till now.
 
 Dharam Singh, superintending engineer, building and road department, MC, revealed that the estimates worth Rs 80 lakh are already sanctioned for this work, but they could not float the tenders due to elections and code of conduct. Singh said they would start the work after fulfilling the formalities when new House is formed and the finance and contract committee comes into action.
 
 He said it would take almost a month to complete the work. 
 
 
