When it comes to selecting clothes, women have a lot of options, in terms of trends and styles no matter the season.   is here and it is getting hotter by the minute, which means it is time to get rid of winter wear and kick-start summer fashion. If you are wondering what the perfect outfit is this season, here’s a list of wardrobe essentials that you must have to keep you comfortable and cool.

 
  
 
 
 There is, no doubt, that sunglasses are a must-have this summer. Apart from making you look cool, it also keeps you cool. The best kinds of shades are UV-protected ones that keep your eyes safe. If you are someone who drives, then this is the most important item that needs to be in your bag, as your eyes need protection when on the road.
 
 
  
 
 
 A simple tank-top pairs well with just about anything — a skirt, a pair of  , palazzos, jeans, etc. It is something that you can never have too many of. You can wear it both at home and out. It has breathable fabric, so it keeps you cool in the summer. What’s more, it’s easy to accessorise as well.
 
 
 
 The best thing about palazzos is that they are basically pajamas that you can wear in public and look trendy. You can choose from a wide range of options — a basic black one, printed or even colourful ones. You can pair it with a tank-top or a T-shirt and you have a cool and comfy outfit.
 
 
  
 
 
 It goes without saying for most people that a pair of shorts is among their everyday essentials. Still too shy to wear shorts? Give it a shot and we can guarantee that you won’t regret it. Opt for a pair of denim shorts or baggy printed ones. Pair it with your favourite top and you’re good to go.
 
 
  
 
 
 For a while, these two styles have been all the rage, so go on, and try them out. You can pair them with just about anything, such as a pair of high-waist jeans, skirts, shorts and more. Pick a basic colour so that it pairs well with anything.
 
 
  
 
 
 Your footwear mantra this summer should be casual. Put away your boots and sneakers. If you ever choose to wear closed footwear, make sure that you dry them before wearing them again. A pair of flip-flops are your best bet, as there are many styles and colours to choose from.
 
