MUMBAI: The death of   resident Dinesh Sangle due to a tree fall led to a heated debate in the BMC House on Saturday with corporators demanding that the civic body trim trees on municipal land as well as private premises. The corporators, cutting across party lines, demanded that the BMC frame an inclusive policy for tree trimming. The matter was raised by the opposition.

 On Thursday, a tree came crashing down on Sangle, who was walking on a footpath along Mumbai Marathi Grantha Sangrahalaya in Dadar. He was taken to   in Parel but was declared dead upon arrival.
 
 According to the existing policy, citizens need to apply to the BMC to get trees on private premises trimmed and they also need to pay the civic body a certain amount for the job. The BMC appoints a contractor to trim trees.
 
 Shiv Sena party leader Vishakha Raut said, “The BMC has enough funds for trimming trees on private premises too. The civic body collects taxes from citizens for all other services, it can collect a small amount for this as well. A rightful condolence to the deceased would be to bring out a policy that ensures there is no passing the buck.”
 
 Opposition party leader   asked how many more deaths was the BMC awaiting before bringing out an appropriate policy for tree trimming. “The city is witnessing deaths due to tree falls, yet nothing is being done. Stringent action needs to be taken against BMC officials who did not act on time in the Dadar case,” said Raja.
 
 The corporators also demanded compensation for Sangle’s wife and two daughters, aged 4 and 9. Bandra corporator Swapna   said that on the one hand we ask citizens to plant more trees and on the other we charge them for trimming. “This would discourage citizens for planting trees,” she said.
 
 Mhatre was supported by   corporator Rajeshree Shirwadkar who said that the BMC should stop charging private premises for trimming trees. “Thousands of rupees are being collected for trimming trees in private compounds. To avoid paying that, citizens let the trees be as they are and eventually such incidents take place,” she said.
 
  recounted that on April 11, a tree had collapsed in Jogeshwari, injuring six people and the BMC should have taken preventive steps at that time itself.
 
