SURAT:   police arrested a 22-year-old son of a builder for his alleged involvement in an angadia   that took place near Belgium Square Complex near the railway station on May 22. 

 
 
 
 Uday alias Udubha Pragji Koladiya was arrested from his house in   in Jahangirpura area after he revealed that he was the friend of the other three robbers who had executed the crime. After the loot, the robbers went to Koladiya’s house and handed him a portion of the looted booty. Police recovered cash and valuables worth Rs 1.41 lakh from his house of total looted valuables of around Rs 6 lakh.
 
 During questioning, the police found involvement of Jaydeep alias Jayubha Vaghela alias Jaylo Amarshi Vaghasiya, a resident of Paras Society in Katargam, Hasmukh alias Hasu alias Bhuro Hamir Dharajiya, who lives near Hariom Mill and Sandeep alias Sandy Shyambahadur Rajput, a resident of SMC housing colony near Pal police chowky in Adajan. They are yet to be arrested. Vaghasiya and Dharajiya escaped to Saurashtra, while Rajput is hiding somewhere in Uttar Pradesh, the police sources said.
 
 Investigation revealed that Rajput was the mastermind of the loot. He employed Vaghasiya and Dharajiya after deciding to execute the crime. Rajput has been externed from the city since 2017 for his involvement in series of crimes. He carried out a recce of the victim’s movement from Bardoli to the city. 
 
 On the day of crime, Dharajiya went to Bardoli and kept a watch near the branch office of Jayanti Soma Angadia. Paresh Patel, an employee of the firm, used to return to the city in a bus everyday with valuables, while his friend Kishore Lukhi (38), a diamond businessman who had a jewellery unit in Bardoli, accompanied him.
 
 On May 22, Dharajiya sat in the bus with the victims from Bardoli and kept updating Vaghasiya about the movement. Vaghasiya was waiting on his motorcycle at Niyol Patiya on the highway and he followed the bus up to Sahara Darwaja. When Patel and Lukhi got down at Sahara Darwaja, Dharajiya also alighted and went with Vaghasiya. The victims reached near Belgium Square in rickshaw and got down to board another rickshaw when the two attacked and robbed them. Lukhi survived despite severe stabbing wounds that left his lung punctured.
 
 The duo picked up Rajput on way to Jahangirpura and they went to Koladiya’s house. 
 
 “We detected the case from the motorcycle which was captured in the closed circuit television cameras. However, before the police team could reach the other accused persons, they escaped. We recovered a portion of the looted material,” the police sources said.
 
 
