AURANGABAD: The government on Monday informed the Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court that it has taken the garbage disposal issue seriously and would come out with a solution within a day.

 Following this, the bench — comprising justices S S Shinde and S M Gavhane — placed a hearing for Tuesday. The petitioner Rahul Kulkarni, a resident of Aurangabad, approached the high court seeking directions to the state government to intervene in the standoff and ensure the civic body disposes of the solid waste as per the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016.
 
  
  
 Earlier, on Saturday, the bench — comprising justices   and K K Sonwane — had issued notices to various authorities including   ( ), state government, union government, pollution control board, following the petition filed by Kulkarni, through lawyer  , and had placed the hearing for Monday.
 
 When the matter came for hearing on Monday, the high court asked the government pleader to take instructions from the government over the issue. The petitioner’s lawyer pointed out that the state government could step in as per the Solid Waste Management Rule 2016 and take steps in solving the issue that poses serious health hazards for Aurangabad residents.
 
 He said the Central government has revamped the Municipal Solid Wastes (Management and Handling) Rules 2000 and notified the new Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 on April 8, 2016.
 
 The petition pointed out that the existing dump site at Naregaon is containing 10 to 20 lakh cubic meter of solid waste. The site is full of untreated waste and this has created health and hygiene issues. Therefore, there is lot of protest for dumping garbage at Naregaon.
 
 For 35 years, the garbage is being dumped at Naregaon. But unfortunately, the AMC has failed to establish solid waste treatment plant till today. 
 
 Meanwhile, garbage kept piling up in different parts of the city as the civic body could not lift the waste for want of a disposal spot. The residents of Naregaon, where the civic body would dump city’s garbage, have refused to allow AMC trucks to dump garbage in their village. It was the 11th day on Monday when the civic body failed to sort out the impasse involving non-disposal of waste. 
 
 
