HYDERABAD:   department attached 48 acres in Hydernagar, Kukatpally, owned by   led by   ( ) and brother PS Parthasarathy for alleged tax evasion of 100 crore by underpricing land sold by them. 

 Invoking Section 132 9B of the I-T Act that says during search or within 60 days of execution of search, officers to protect interest of revenue may provisionally attach properties of assessee, I-T sleuths on Tuesday ordered Kukatpally sub-registrar and Ranga Reddy district registrar to provisionally attach the 48 acres belonging to the   group and not to transfer ownership.
 
 
 
 
 By Wednesday, the orders reached the assessee (Goldstone Group) as well. The provisional attachment came in after I-T sleuths found that Goldstone group and its shell companies have sold lands worth Rs 500 crore to multiple persons and firms by showing the sale consideration value much less than the official market value as fixed by the Telangana Stamps and Registration Department.
 
 On November 9, 2017, IT sleuths conducted searches on the properties of Goldstone Prasad, his brother Parthasarathy and other family members and officers. I-T after analysing the property documents, zeroed in on the lands located in Hydernagar, Hafeezpet, Hasmathpet and Ghansiguda in Shamshabad.
 
 IT sources said that since 2012, these lands were sold and, in most cases, PS Prasad was the General Power of Attorney holder. The sources said in many of the documents, the sale consideration was shown less but the Goldstone group and the companies paid stamp duty on the official market value.IT sleuths then suspected that the remaining amount of black money might have been taken by the assessee (seller) from the buyers. This attracts Section 56 of the IT Act (income from other sources) for the buyers and capital gains for the Goldstone group.
 
 Investigations also found that in some cases, Goldstone without paying stamp duty has given bank guarantee and got the documents released. Interestingly, the bank guarantee has lapsed causing massive loss to the state government.
 
 
