Chandigarh: A day after Punjab DGP (HRD) Sidhharth Chattopadhyaya submitted before the Punjab and Haryana high court that he was being harassed by state police chief DGP Suresh Arora and DGP (intelligence) Dinkar Gupta in the Inderpreet Chadha suicide case, chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday sought a report in the matter.

 Taking serious note of the media reports of dissension in Punjab Police top brass, he made it clear that he would not hesitate in taking stern action, if needed, to check indiscipline in the force.
 
 The CM discussed the issue with home secretary N S Kalsi, DGP Suresh Arora and chief principal secretary to the CM Suresh Kumar. He directed them to examine the matter and suggest suitable action, as necessary to resolve the same.
 
 On Friday, Chattopadhyaya had submitted before the Punjab and Haryana high court that two DGP rank officers were dragging him into the Inderpreet Chadha suicide, which took place in Amritsar in January. He had accused them of manipulating the case through the case SIT head IG L K Yadav.
 
 Giving reason for his allegations, he told the court that since he was probing the role of Moga SSP Raj Jit Singh in a drug case on high court’s directions, he was being targeted by senior police officers “whose role was under investigation for being closely associated with the SSP”. 
 
 Seeking CBI probe in the Chadha suicide case, Chattopadhyaya had submitted that in the course of his investigation into the case, which came to light after inspector Inderjit Singh was caught be a drug and weapon haul, role of DGP Arora and DGP Gupta had come to light.
 
 The chief minister has also directed the home secretary and the DGP to ensure that all investigations in the drugs cases are carried out impartially, without fear or favour. Amarinder said any grievance by any member of the police force, including those against colleagues, should be routed through the well-established administrative procedures and channels laid down for the purpose. “There were well laid down hierarchies that needed to be stringently adhered to, if the police force was to function efficaciously,” he added.
 
 Amarinder added that the 80,000 strong Punjab Police force naturally looked up to its senior officers for leadership. Internal discord or friction could seriously undermine its professional and operational capabilities, the CM said, adding the police personnel, especially senior officers, were in the public eye at all times and needed to exercise due caution in their personal and professional conduct.
 
 
