BENGALURU: Several tainted Ballari mining czars looking for political resurrection ahead of the assembly polls in Karnataka are getting a godsend opportunity by   and BJP, who are keeping their doors open for these exiles. Congress, which returned to power in 2013 posturing as a saviour of the state’s natural wealth by undertaking a padayatra from Bengaluru to Ballari against illegal mining, has already embraced tainted MLAs   of Hosapete and B Nagendra of Kudligi. 

 Both are out on bail in the illegal mining case. In fact, both were star attractions at AICC president  's ‘Janashirvaad Yatra’, which kicked off on Saturday from Hosapete. Here, CM Siddaramaiah made a chest-thumping speech on how he dismantled the mining lobby and their ‘Republic of Bellary’, as described in the Lokayukta report on illegal mining. Congress is also said to be wooing Ballari strongman Sriramulu’s nephew and Kampli MLA H T Suresh Babu. 
 
 These decisions have left many loyal local Congress leaders in Ballari, who fought the mining lobby with great risk to their lives, high and dry. BJP, too, is cozying up to the resourceful Reddy brothers through their best friend Sriramulu. In all probability, G Somashekar Reddy and G Karunakar Reddy are likely to contest on a BJP ticket from Ballari City and Harapanahalli constituencies, respectively. Kampli MLA Suresh Babu will be the BJP candidate, if he chooses to remain in the party. 
 
 Sources said efforts are on by a section of BJP to bring back Gali Janardhan Reddy, the most powerful and influential of all mining czars. He is on bail and barred by court from entering Ballari district. “Though the party may not embrace him openly, he will be a key player in Ballari and adjoining districts,’’ said a BJP leader in the know of things. 
 
 The Reddys had never been discreet about their association with BJP, especially with external affairs minister   before she publicly disowned them after they were indicted for illegal mining and export of iron ore. Now, with the entry of Singh and Nagendra into Congress, BJP has taken this as an excuse to make its relations with the Reddy brothers more obvious. 
 
 Meanwhile, the Rs 64-lakh gold-plated silver idol of Maharishi Valmiki, gifted to Rahul by Nagendra in Hosapete on Saturday, is turning out to be a burden for Congress. After being criticised by BJP for accepting the gift, Karnataka Congress in charge K C Venugopal announced that the idol would be handed over to the muzrai and endowments department. 
 
 However, it looks like there are no takers for the idol there. Muzrai minister Rudrappa Manappa Lamani is worried about the expensive gift being given to him.
