NAGPUR: The state education department’s decision to put   in place for all junior   students may still take time to be fully implemented as principals feel that it comes with an additional infrastructure cost.

 Biometric attendance is to be taken for every student and that too both at time of entry and exit. But with hundreds, and in some junior colleges thousands, of students being enrolled, the initiative is being questioned on feasibility.
 
 An education official, who did not wish to be named, said, “We will follow up aggressively this year on whether junior colleges have implemented it fully or not. Many new permissions and grant of extra sections are now dependent on having the system in place.”
 
 If one goes by junior college records, then   attendance system exists everywhere. But it exists only for staff attendance and not students.
 
 A junior college trustee spoke to TOI at length and claimed the idea is just not viable. “There’s a college in Nagpur which has a strength of around 3,200 students in Std XI and XII. It will take 18 hours for all students using a single machine to complete both sign in and out. Now, think of how many machines need to be installed to ensure that the process is completed within 30 minutes maximum,” said the trustee.
 
 Another principal said there are technical issues to take care of as well. “There are times when the system just hangs up and creates problems for all of us. When you operate with such a huge number of machines, then technical problems are bound to happen,” the principal said.
 
 Sources in the education department said four different teams have been prepared to operate as flying squads. These teams will pay a surprise visit to junior colleges to check whether or not students are actually attending classes.
 
 The tie-up between colleges and coaching classes has become a thorny issue for the education department. A senior academician, who is part of the principals association in the city, said, “Students are not interested in coming to class because their tuition teachers take care of board studies plus the competitive tests. Unless parents stop demanding this special arrangement, the nexus will continue.”
 
 
