HYDERABAD: Multiple warnings released by the   ( ) seem to have had no effect on corporate intermediate colleges as most of them have already completed over 70 per cent of admissions months ahead of a set date.

 Many colleges, especially the corporate ones, are said to be giving huge discounts to seal the admissions of candidates and are expected to seal 85-90 per cent of the admissions even before the board releases official notification.
 
 "The rules and regulations of BIE seem to be there only on paper. In reality, the intermediate board is least bothered to check what's happening at ground level. Corporate colleges are luring parents with discounts and offers. We are quite sure that by the time board releases a notification, more than 90 per cent of students will already be part of these colleges," said  , honorary president, Telangana Private Intermediate Colleges.
 
 Private college managements also complained that corporate colleges are slowly destroying comparatively smaller colleges this way.
 
 "While corporate colleges are hiring agents to attract students, small private colleges generally wait till BIE releases a notification. We won't be able to seal admission of even one student. So, unless the state takes measures to stop these big fishes, small fishes like us won't survive," said  , who works in a private intermediate college. Many other faculty members of other smaller colleges in the city echoed his sentiments.
 
 When contacted, the board officials, on the other hand, said that they haven't received any complaint against corporate college on this issue.
 
 "No one has brought this issue to our notice. We are not sure whether or not admission process started in corporate colleges," said a board official from   district.
 
 Meanwhile, many parents expressed their vexations about the disturbing trend.
 
 "I don't understand what is the need for colleges to hire agents to bring students to their colleges.If their college is really best, parents would anyway join their wards in it. Also, both parents and students should be left alone at least till the finish of examinations so that they can concentrate better on studies, said   D, parent of a class X student.
 
 On Jan 27, BIE has once again released a circular announcing that admissions made well in advance before the announcement of the admission schedule will not be valid and stringent action will be taken against erring managements. The board also requested the parent community to not admit their wards in any junior college before the announcement of the admission schedule for the academic year 2018-19.
 
 "Prior to the beginning of the academic year, the list of affiliated junior colleges for the academic year 2018-19 will be placed on our official website and after the issuance of the admission schedule, before making the admissions, the parents or students are requested to enquire and confirm whether the college in which they wish to take admission has affiliation or not and if the course they want to opt was sanctioned for that particular college," read the circular.
 
 This is the second circular to be released in this month.
 
 
