VADODARA/ ANAND: Students seeking admission in colleges offering science, commerce and arts streams in Anand and   districts will no longer have to go through the hassles of approaching each and every individual colleges. Neither will they have to fill up and pay hefty fees for multiple admission forms and prospectus issued by the colleges. 

 For the first time, Vallabh Vidyanagar based   (SPU) has decided to adopt online admission process for the undergraduate (UG) courses offered by 148 colleges affiliated to it. The 148 colleges affiliated to   include 48 grant-in-aid colleges and 100 self-financed colleges which in total offer nearly 20,000 seats in science, commerce and arts disciplines. 
 
 It was last year that SPU had adopted centralized online admission process for postgraduate programmes offered by different departments under it. This year, the university will begin the online admission process from May 15. 
 
 “We have decided to set up 24 help centres across Anand and Kheda districts. Students will no longer have to submit their original documents to the college where he or she is seeking admission. The documents will be checked at the help centres and the same will be returned immediately to them after verification,” said SPU vice-chancellor professor Shirish Kulkarni. 
 
 The last date of submitting online applications is May 30 while the merit list will be prepared by June 7. SPU has kept June 14 as the target to complete the entire admission process. 
 
 For cross-verification, SPU has approached the   Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB), which has agreed to provide the entire database of all the students who have passed their class 12 exams in a CD format. 
 
 “Students will no longer have to move around each and every college. They can fill up the admission forms online, get the documents verified from the help centre near to them and the colleges will issue the merit lists. The merit lists of each college will be displayed on our official website,” said Kulkarni, adding that students will have to pay only Rs 100 as fees for admission forms and prospectus and can apply for multiple colleges. 
 
 “The grant-in-aid colleges will get priority as on the first three days, students will be admitted in grant-in-aid colleges while admission in self-financed colleges will take place two days later,” he said, adding that students of Anand and Kheda districts will be given priority in admissions. 
 
 SPU will be using software developed by   at the cost of Rs 3.50 lakh for managing online admission process. 
 
 Aspirants from outside Gujarat seeking admission in colleges affiliated to SPU too get a sigh of relief as provisional eligibility certificates which such students need to procure will also be generated automatically through the new system. 
 
 
