Want the latest buzz on the gossip front? A peep into the lives of the rich and famous? A wind of Chennai’s best-kept secrets? Writer, activist, anchor, and queen bee   fills you in with all that and then some in this  . 

 
 
 Shruti Haasan, we hear, is blissed-out in Goa. The lady who’s been flaunting a radiant glow, thanks to her beau  , family sources say, is excited about work that’s been pouring in ever since she’s touched down in India. Apart from indulging in art for her home in Mumbai, this girl is basking in the Goan sunshine and even checking out local bands that perform in the beach town.
 
 
 
 This eager wannabe model, and so the grapevine goes, approached an ageing choreographer for work and what happened next is nothing short of a film script. The young man was asked to showcase his body on webcam, then meet in person. Exploited and ashamed, he gave in to further demands of meeting more of this choreographer’s “contacts”. Later, he realised his webcam audition was sent to people abroad and with just one or two shows to show for from this whole experience, this model boy is distraught and is now seeing a professional counsellor. Sexual abuse and violence are rampant in the industry, where some seniors in the industry prey on hopeful youths who want to make it big in modelling. Yes, the models are adults but manipulation is multifold and is never direct enough for them to catch on to initially.
 
 
 
 Instead of rummaging through aisles of couture or wandering from shop to shop, famous personalities like Aishwarya Dhanush, Suriya Reddy and top industrialists prefer the convenience of a personal shopper from an uber luxurious mall. The marketing head of this mall,   says that though the mall has an amazing layout for stressfree shopping and a five-star ambience, the personal shopper is an added advantage when you have popular and super busy women who want to shop from the plush comforts of their home.
 
 
 
 Whilst some of her wealthy friends prefer to go highstreet glam, Hema Sethuraman, the buzz is, prefers to dish out dollars on high fashion. The sassy woman who works in a key role at a fivestar boutique hospital has carefully selected couture brands to wear even to work. These brands don’t have alphabets embossed or look like a uniform that almost everyone’s sporting these days. Her brands are understated yet super expensive.
 
 
 
 Why do women go weak in the knees for this entertainment honcho  ? It seems his doting-husband qualities alongside his sense of humour have floored some of the top actresses he has worked with. Especially a beautyqueen-turned-actress who’s now scoring on the cinematic popularity charts.
 
 
 
 his brother-sister duo T Mrinal and Pavan are crafting up bowls of soulful salads to slim you down, and, at the same time, they run a super popular yet exclusive Facebook group that prompts people to cook and post the photographs. Their results, we believe, have been magnificent. Friends of Mrinal have revealed that a top actress in the city whose many earlier attempts at weight loss, which included surgery as well, had failed, now swears by these salads.
 
 
 
 This rather noisy lady, who began her career as a film extra and got lucky by marrying a talented North Indian, hosted a quiet cozy bash recently. At the bash, her starry pals whom this slender siren runs to to take selfies with were missing. And best of all, guests recalled the days they used to see her “puke and fall” at lobbies to now as she holds herself up well. This globetrotting lady, who poses to show her handbags rather than herself and has a sharp tongue, apparently told some of her guests not to order certain expensive drinks as her “sponsor” had set strict limits on the budget. The party happened at a distant location to avoid “paparazzi”, we are told!
 
 (Views expressed above are the author’s own) 
 
 
 
 
