NEW DELHI: He wanted to make a mark in life like his father who was a deputy superintendent in Punjab Police. However, Balvinder Singh Bajwa decided to achieve his goal by taking the exact opposite route and turned into a lawbreaker. He and his friend,  , an engineer holding an award given by the  , set up an agency offering   educational degrees.

 After setting up a school in Punjab, they got in touch with Pankaj Arora, an arts graduate from   whose wife is a guest lecturer at a DU college. Bajwa and Singh wanted to set up an office in Delhi as they thought they could earn more by duping more people in the national capital.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The modus operandi of the gang was unique as they would give fake certificates and marksheets of universities in south India to applicants from north India and vice versa. The same plan was adopted for applicants from east and west. They did this to ensure that the victims did not travel to the university to confirm the authenticity of the marksheet and, instead, used the website to confirm it.
 
 The websites, police said, were faked to such perfection that one could barely spot the difference. This helped the accused men get away scot-free.
 
 Arora was so discreet about his activities that even his wife didn’t have a clue about it. He tried his hand at several businesses, like construction, being a realty dealer, sales, etc, but found the business of fake degrees the most lucrative after being contacted by Bajwa and Singh. However, the family members of the other accused knew what they were doing and tried to convince them to stop committing the fraud.
 
 The fourth accused, Pawiter Singh, is a resident of Jalandhar and had studied up to Class XII. He used to run a school in his village. After he met Singh and Bajwa, he decided to become a part of their fake degrees and marksheets racket.
 
 Police said that the men charged Rs 10,000 for a Class X certificate, Rs 20,000 for Class XII and over Rs 1 lakh for degrees like LLB, MBBS and BEd. The money earned at their “centres” was deposited in different bank accounts by their associates.
 
