Greater Noida: The first Aqua Line train set out on its first   on the Noida-Greater Noida corridor from Depot Metro station in Greater Noida. The trial between Depot and Depot stations was officiallly flagged off by Mangu Singh, managing director of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), and Alok Tandon, managing director of Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC), on Tuesday. Both   and   unveiled a first look of the 4-coach train along with view of Depot Metro Station, the last station along the line. With the inclusion of Aqua line, which covers 29.7 km between Noida and Greater Noida, the total Metro corridor in the twin cities will span out across a network of 47 km.

 Speaking on the occasion, Tandon said if all goes as per plan, the corridor could start commercial operations in the next 3-4 months. Giving an update, he said the civil work of this standard gauge corridor having 21 stations was completed in November 2017. “Track laying and system work is in progress. At present, electrical and mechanical work for the corridor is 70% complete and 90% of the track has been laid and signalling work is also 65% complete. Structural work on all the 21 stations is also complete and finishing work is being carried out,” he said.
 
 Mangu Singh said basic movement trials and validations were done over the last fortnight to ensure the train is ready to go onto the viaduct in the New Year. During the test run, the trains will undergo rigorous signalling testing. The train’s interface will be checked to ensure that there is no physical infringement with civil infrastructure during the movement of the train on the track and testing of various subsystems of coaches shall be done. The train had arrived at Depot on December 14, 2017.
 
 “Full-fledged oscillation trials will commence from February 15, after the substation in Sector 148 is energised, and after completion of full internal testing of the train at the depot. Thereafter, trials will be undertaken along the entire track by March 2018,” Singh said.
 
 Initially, NMRC will operate 11 trains along the corridor. The corridor will have a total of 19 train sets (i.e. 76 coaches). The trains are expected to arrive from China every fortnight.
 
 A look at the coaches revealed that there are special seats in a dark Aqua colour for women, seniors citizens and the disabled. There are 16 such seats in each coach and 64 in each train. Each coach is equipped with four 37” LED backlit LCD displays called dynamic route maps for passengers with hearing impairment. Each coach is also equipped with six LED backlit LCD displays to display special messages including ongoing train routes. Dedicated space has also been provided for commuters in wheel-chairs in driving trailer cars at both the ends of the trains.
 
 For visually-impaired passengers, digital voice announcements regarding train and route information and announcement of station will be made in both Hindi and English. The operational control centre will also be able to communicate directly with the passengers in case of emergency announcements through speakers installed in each coach.
 
 Tandon said the Aqua line will also be integrated with the extension of the Blue line via an interchange at Sector 52 of the Sector 32 to 62 Metro corridor. “The Blue line extension will be ready for commissioning only by September 2018. We will build a skywalk to provide seamless connectivity to commuters from Sector 71 station of the Aqua line but until then the passengers will have to manage,” he said. “Once connected with the Blue line, the Aqua line will also be connected to the recently launched Magenta line providing connectivity up to Janakpuri,” he added.
 
 
