KOCHI: Parents of slain   S P   have approached the high court seeking a CBI probe into their son’s death. They alleged that police failed to invoke UAPA in the case and is not probing the conspiracy that involves top leaders of CPM.

 
 Two of the arrested accused in the murder that took place at   near Mattannoor in Kannur on February 12 have close links with the party’s district secretary P Jayarajan and  , the petition said.
 
 The gang that killed Shuhaib by exploding bombs and by inflicting 41 hack injuries are hardcore criminals. It was the CPM leaders in the district who harboured hatred towards Shuhaib, the petition filed by   and his wife stated.
 
  
 
 News reports showing photographs of the accused along with Jayarajan and Vijayan were submitted in court. Photographs showing the injuries sustained by the deceased were also produced.
 
 During the admission hearing on Tuesday, former director general of prosecution T Asaf Ali, who represented the petitioners, argued that the chief minister, who was reluctant to pose for a selfie with a youngster, is posing along with an accused involved in eight other murders and a KAAPA case. It can be inferred that a larger conspiracy exists, the counsel submitted.
 
 The present investigation is only an eyewash controlled by the CPM’s Kannur leadership, the plea said.
 
 A cursory glance at the FIR would reveal that the assailants created terror by exploding bombs and inflicted 41 injuries with deadly weapons on Shuhaib and injured two others with him. This was a terrorist act punishable under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, said the petition.
 
 During Tuesday’s hearing, Justice B Kemal Pasha picked up a photo of the deceased and asked the state attorney, “Do you see how a human being has been hacked to pieces?” The court also asked why the police have not yet recovered the murder weapons.
 
 Ali argued that it is knowing that a CBI probe would lead to arrests of top leaders that the chief minister has declined the demand for a CBI probe. Kannur district leadership exerted pressure on the chief minister , the counsel argued. The court has now asked CBI to inform its views within a week.
 
