BANGALORE:   strongman CT Ravi is fighting with his back to the wall for the first time in the past 14 years. Ravi, who first won from here in 2004, has been undefeated since. His wins have made him the BJP face in Malnad region.

 Benefited by the disunity in his rivals’ ranks, Ravi has delivered what the party wanted. But a clever   gameplan has left him struggling this time, notwithstanding his time-tested formula of lacing development with Hindutva.
 
 Though the segment is considered a Vokkaliga domain, SC/STs and Muslims are in large numbers here, followed by   and other OBCs. The number of Vokkaligas may be small but they play a pivotal role in the district’s economy.
 
 The recent SC judgment on Sree Dattatreya Bababudan Swamy Dargah controversy has come as a big setback for Ravi. Many of his former associates allege that Ravi failed to protect the interests of Hindus in the Supreme Court as he didn’t hire a strong legal team.
 
  has fielded its candidate with the sole intention of dividing Hindu votes. The   decision to field a Lingayat candidate is also expected to hurt BJP.
 
 There’s trouble within too – Ravi’s soured relationship with several senior party leaders is expected to hurt him and there are murmurs that all is not well between him and local MP Shobha Karandlaje. However, Ravi says he’s confident of a fourth straight win.
 
 Congress has fielded BL Shankar, a veteran, to divide Ravi’s Vokkaliga base. To attract SC/ST votes, it has roped in its top leader, Motamma, for campaigning. In return, Shankar is to consolidate Vokkaliga votes in favour of Motamma in neighbouring Mudigere where she is contesting.
 
 Known for his oratory and contacts at grassroots, Ravi is crisscrossing the constituency and using the Veerashaiva-Lingayat controversy to torpedo Congress’ chances.
 
 Voters though have a long list of unrealised promises made across parties lines. Nagaraj Pujari, a resident of  , says the main issue is irrigation and poor infrastructure. “In Malnad areas, there is no water problem. But in other places, there is no water to drink or for irrigation. No major irrigational projects have been implemented in last 2-3 decades,” he says.
 
 Anil Kumar of Anur says there are no good hospitals or schools and colleges in the constituency. “We have been demanding a medical college for 10 years. It was proposed in the budget but work has not started,” he says.
 
