KOLKATA: A 16-year-old Madhyamik examinee from Birbhum died on Thursday night in a critical care ambulance that allegedly had an air-conditioning (AC) mechanic posing as a doctor. The boy was being brought to a Kolkata private hospital for treatment from a nursing home in Burdwan. 

  Arijit Das's family had requisitioned the ambulance and a doctor through a nursing home at Nababhaat in Burdwan. It was only on reaching the Kolkata hospital the family discovered that the man who had accompanied Arijit claiming to be the doctor was an AC mechanic. They lodged a complaint with   police station, leading to the arrest of Sheikh Sarfarajuddin (25), the fake doctor, and   (26), the ambulance driver. 
 
  
  
 
  Arijit had complained of fever a day before his Class X board examinations began on Monday. On Wednesday, when the fever did not subside and he started having severe bouts of back pain, Arijit's father took him to Rampurhat Sub-Divisional Hospital. 
 
 "When all blood test reports failed to detect anything, we decided to shift him to a nursing home. We admitted him to   in Burdwan," said Arijit's maternal uncle Dibyendu Mondal.
 
  Meanwhile, Arijit started complaining of chest pain. His father didn't want to wait any longer and decided to bring Arijit to Rabindranath Tagore International Institute for Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS). The family requisitioned a critical care ambulance and a doctor for the 105-km journey to Kolkata 
 
 "We agreed to pay Rs 8,000 for the ambulance and another Rs 8,000 for the doctor. But when we wanted to sit with Arijit and the doctor in the ambulance, the driver didn't allow us. We were asked to hire another vehicle," said Arijit's father. The father and his elder brother Swapan somehow squeezed themselves into the driver's seat. They first became suspicious when they saw the driver fixing the oxygen cylinder instead of the doctor. 
 
 Doctors at   declared Arijit brought dead. 
 
 Sarfarajuddin first claimed that he was a technician who assisted doctors at Annapurna Nursing Home, but later confessed to being just an air-conditioning mechanic. The duo was arrested after an FIR was lodged. 
 
  (With inputs from Md Asif in Burdwan) 
 
 
