JALANDHAR: Cooperation and intelligence sharing between the   (BSF) and Punjab Police and its special task force ( ) has improved a lot in the last few months and it has led to more recoveries of drugs at the border as compared to last year, said a senior officer of  , posted in the state.

 Stating this here during a press conference on Tuesday, BSF inspector general (Punjab frontier) Mukul Goel said there was there was marked difference in the cooperation and intelligence sharing between state agencies and BSF.
 
 “Last year BSF made eight recoveries on the basis of inputs received from Punjab Police. This year our force affected 20 recoveries on the basis of intelligence inputs provided by STF and Punjab Police. Things have improved a lot with formation of STF and at all levels coordination has improved to work against drugs,” he revealed, adding “in 2016 year BSF recovered 230kg of heroin and in 2017, it was 279kg.”
 
 He held that in the past also it was wrong to blame BSF for crossing of drugs as it was already doing whatever was possible within its means. “Intelligence is with state agencies. As an organization we have zero tolerance towards drugs and we don’t even blink to take action against any black sheep,” he added.
 
 “During a meeting with Pakistan Rangers a few months back a senior official of their   also participated and detailed that they were also catching big hauls of drugs which were coming from  . They also have this problem,” he said. Responding to query Goel also held that if they get positive response from Pakistan-based Anti Narcotics Force there was possibility of coordination between the agencies of the two countries to fight against drugs.
 
 BSF IG also also said that they were increasing sitting capacity at viewers gallery from 10,000 to 25,000. “Meanwhile talks are on with Pak Rangers to make some structural changes at the gate so that viewers from both sides can watch parades of either side,” he said.
 
 Asked if there was any plan of reducing aggression during the retreat ceremony from either side, he said that aggression should come down but that would also depend on response from Pakistan.
 
 Vigil increased: IG 
 
 BSF IG Mukul Goel also revealed that there was increased vigil at vulnerable points at the border, especially in the river area. “Manpower has been increased and other measures have also been increased after Dinanagar terror attack. He said that smart fence was also being raised in 5km sensitive area in Jammu and Punjab. The smart fencing would include raising laser walls, he said adding, infrastructure up-gradation was already been done.
 
 
