MUMBAI: The   ( ) may after all allow   to charge higher for NRI seats, but the catch is that they will have to offer a 50%-60% reduction in tuition fees for state quota students. 

 The suggestion comes days after the FRA stated that all fees for post-graduate medical courses need to be quota-blind. Private college managements have opposed the quota-blind fee decision and stepped out of the post-graduate admission process. Last year, the fees for NRI and management seats at several private colleges was three to four times that for merit/state quota ones. 
 
 
  
 
 In a meeting scheduled next week, the FRA is expected to allow the proposal for a flat fee structure. “If fees for NRI seats have to be charged at five times the state quota fee, we will work out a dramatic 50%-60% reduction in fees for state quota students,” said a source from the FRA.
 
 Most colleges in   claim to have an annual expenditure of anywhere between Rs 30 crore to Rs 60 crore. The FRA allows colleges to earn an additional 10% towards profit and 10% towards inflation. 
 
 Hence, explained an FRA member, if a large slice of the revenue comes from NRI students, it would be reduced and divided among other students. “That will mean the fees of state students will drop by half,” he said.
 
 Colleges have 50% seats for merit quota, 35% for institutional quota and 15% NRI seats. “There is no question of charging fees like last year. If fees for some seats goes up, another has to fall. The FRA cannot allow colleges to profit,” said another member. 
 
 State government officials have reached out to the FRA and it is is expected that the air will be cleared at next week’s meeting.
 
 After private medical colleges stepped out of the post-graduate admission process, the state government had pressed the panic button and decided to use its special powers to direct the FRA to allow colleges to charge a higher fee for NRI seats at least. Section 15 of the Maharashtra Unaided Private Professional Educational Institutions Regulation, 2017, allows the government to step in and direct the FRA to re-consider its stand.
 
 “FRA members feel that representatives can sit across the table and resolve the matter. The meeting next week will give a clear indication of the fees,” said Dr  , director of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research. 
 
 
