BHOPAL: In the face of stiff opposition to setting up of a waste transfer station at   park, Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) went ahead with biomethanation plant on the same location, on Wednesday.

 BMC mayor Alok Sharma inaugurated the plant that will utilise bio-degradable waste to convert it into biogas and power streetlights around historic park. The waste would be mostly sourced from nearby restaurants and markets in the walled city.
 
 Earlier in the day, local Congress leaders, including BMC   protested against location of waste dump site. Spread over seven acres, the waste dump station is among 10 such stations, where the garbage would be offloaded from nearby colonies and later moved to solid waste disposal site at Adampur Chhawani.
 
 The plant is to cost the BMC about Rs 2 crore. Giving a new spin to a controversy over a waste dump site near a 200-year-old park, Sharma said, “It was never a park. This is the location, where Patra nullah flowed.”
 
 Environmentalists and social activists criticised the BMC for proposing a waste dump site next to a park below the  , which is a Ramsar designated site because they meet the criteria for identifying wetlands of international importance. 
 
 Since 2016, the civic body is dumping waste along the park and open area. “Waste is being cleared from the area. Garbage compactors would be utilised to compress waste and transfer for disposal,” said BMC additional commissioner MP Singh. A private company has been entrusted the task, including setting up of biomethanation plant, he said.
 
 The biogas plant will be able to process 7 tons of segregated organic municipal solid waste daily and produce biogas that will then be utilised to power nearby streetlights. Methane would be utilised as cooking gas by  , located about 200-metres from the waste dump site. Subsidised meals are served at the canteen for Rs 5 per plate. 
 
 The plant would generate biogas and power from organic and vegetable waste generated from the area. For the moment, for every kilo of organic waste being given at the plant, an equal amount of compost is being in return.
 
 The compost and bio-gas plant is expected to be fully functional by next week. About 5-gas cylinder equivalent gas would be supplied to Deendayal Rasoi.
 
 
