NEW DELHI: If the city plays by the rule book, material used for construction, along with the structure itself, will be covered and the site sport a signboard bearing contact details of the contractor and workers employed. This, however, is the best-case scenario: lack of implementation mean that these regulations are blatantly flouted. 

 The local civic body is mandated with the task of keeping an eye on construction activity in areas of its jurisdiction. But as the Begumpur incident — where a 40-year-old teacher died after a rod fell on her — revealed, someone is not doing their job. As per law, construction sites need to be monitored regularly, but citing staff crunch, the corporations do so only during the mosquito-breeding season, apart from conducting random inspections to check dust pollution. 
 
 For instance, a visit to north Delhi’s   shows how heavy construction material are kept in open, not only contributing to air pollution, but also endangering lives through accidents. It’s a similar story at other sites across the city. Guidelines laid down by Delhi government clearly stipulate that any construction site, or structure under construction, must be covered with tarpaulin and the material shouldn’t be left on the roadside. Also, the contractor must ensure that debris are removed immediately.
 
 “It is the responsibility of the owner/builder to provide all possible medical help and masks to workers and to ensure that accidents are avoided,” the guidelines state. 
 
 A north corporation official told TOI: “We are short-staffed. It’s not possible to monitor (construction sites) on a daily basis, but zonal officials have been directed to keep a check on them. However, it’s the responsibility of the contractor to ensure that accidents don’t happen.” Civic officials, however, insist that they conduct checks to ensure that NGT’s directions on curbing dust pollution are complied with. “We have issued challans to all construction sites found keeping construction material in the open,” a south corporation official said. 
 
 While the north corporation issued over 2,000 challans to construction sites in 2017, its southern counterpart claimed to have fined 1,500 contractors.  , too, issued 2,000 challans during that period.
 
 
  
 
 
