NAGPUR: Even as   College of Engineering is shutting down, two more engineering colleges have already applied for permission to shut down to the joint director of technical education office in the city. Namdeorao   College of Engineering and Technology at Gadchiroli, and   at Wardha will take the total number of engineering colleges to shut down in last two years to 11.

 “We’re yet to receive ITM’s proposal, but we’ve got proposals from Poreddiwar and Deshmukh colleges to stop operations from next academic year (2018-19). They cited poor response from students, and unavailability of qualified faculty, as main reasons for their decisions,” joint director for technical education Gulabrao Thakre told TOI.
 
 He added that many colleges had applied for closing branches like information technology and electronics and telecommunications, as they found no takers.
 
 Senior officials from his office told TOI that many other colleges were in the process of closing their operations due to lack of response from students, causing losses. On the other hand, even the government trimmed funds distributed under scholarship, due to massive scam of over Rs7,000 crore, which increased the college managements’ worries.
 
 They added that only good colleges offering quality education and facilities along with faculty were preferred by students and parents. “Those which applied for closure had never offered good facilities and faculty to students, despite charging exorbitant fees. All these institutions were blindly granted permission by   (DTE), besides Nagpur University,” they said.
 
 The officials, however, expressed concern over closing of Gadchiroli college, which was only the second one in the backward district known for Naxal violence.
 
 Some colleges like Central India Institute of Engg and Technology, and VM Institute of Engineering and Technology were blacklisted among NU’s 250 banned colleges in 2013 for operating without a single full-time teacher, and since then their admissions had steadily eroded, forcing them to shut operations.
 
 A principal claimed the government’s tighter norms for scholarship disbursal for the closures. “Now, with fees being directly deposited into students’ accounts linked to Aadhaar Card, it becomes difficult for colleges to siphon off funds,” he said.
 
 In 2016, NU cracked the whip against 32 deficient engineering colleges for operating without mandatory number of teachers and infrastructure. It had even frozen admissions. However, politicians operating them put tremendous pressure on NU administration, forcing it to lift the ban on admissions.
 
 Though AICTE mandated all engineering colleges to appoint at least 80% teachers, NU reduced this to 50%. However, a majority of these 32 deficient colleges had failed to recruit even half the required number of full-time teachers all these years. 
 
 
