The latest episode of   starts with a new twist as it welcomed the wild card entry.

 The episode starts with the continuation of the task, ‘Vyakta Vha Mukta Vha’. According to the task, the contestants had to put the photos of the members on the punching bag, whom they hate the most. They had to express their hatred by punching those photos.
 
 In the latest episode, Sai was the first participant to play the task. Since she was injured, Megha was asked to punch the photos while Sai was verbally expressing her anger. She put photos of  ,  , Sushant, and Smita on the punching bag.
 
 After Sai’s performance, Aastad, Bhushan, Smita and Rutuja came back to back and expressed their outrage. All other contestants were shocked to see Rutuja’s way of expressing hatred.
 
 After the completion of the task ‘Vyakta Vha Mukta Vha’, Bigg Boss called Bhushan in the confession room. Bhushan was given a cake sent by Aastad’s mother.
 
 It was Aastad’s birthday cake which had his childhood photo on it.
 
 Everyone in the house was excited to celebrate Aastad’s birthday. He cut the cake, after which the popular song ‘Kehte Hain Mujhko Hawa Hawai’ was played.
 
 While the song was playing, the door of the house opened and a new member entered.
 
 The new member was  , the senior actress from Marathi entertainment industry. She came to the Bigg Boss Marathi house as a wild card entry.
 
 The housemates were excited to see her in the house. Aastad and Harshada had worked together in the show Pudhcha Paul. Seeing her, he rushed to hug Harshada.
 
 After a warm welcome, Sushant, Bhushan, and Pushkar showed her the entire house of Bigg Boss Marathi.
 
 Then Bigg Boss asked Harshada to come inside the confession room, where she was given a task named, ‘Bimb Pratibimb’.
 
 According to this task, Harshada was asked to make the housemates realise how their behaviour inside the house has portrayed them in the minds of the viewers.
 
 Harshada called Usha and told her that she is playing the game quite well. The only thing she should keep in mind is she should not get hurt because of other’s behaviour.
 
 Then she called Rajesh and said that she was very upset with his behaviour inside the house. She even told Rajesh that he has humiliated his wife by saying ‘I love you’ to Resham. Also, the outside world doesn’t like the relationship between them (Rajesh and Resham). Not just that, Harshada also said that he has spoilt the ‘gentleman’ image she had about him.
 
 After Rajesh, Harshada called Sai and advised her of not taking any one’s support and fight on her own.
 
 Harshada then called Megha and said that she is playing well. But she advised that her strength shouldn’t be turned into ego.
 
 Harshada said Resham that the image she has portrayed by getting close to Rajesh isn’t right. She also called her a ‘Home Breaker’. Resham adds that she is a single woman and the society never provides respect to a woman like her.
 
 So the upcoming episode will decide how well the conversation between Resham and Harshada goes.
 
 
