Bengaluru: The BJP on Wednesday alleged that chief minister Siddaramaiah had denotified a prime property of 2 acres and 39.5 guntas in Jayanagar which was earmarked as parks and open spaces by the state government earlier.

 Denying the allegation, Congress spokesperson B L Shankar said the matter is still pending before the Supreme Court and that it has nothing to do with the CM.
 
 However, former DyCM R Ashoka produced documents citing that Siddaramaiah had got the land denotified in favour of a developer. “The land, which is abutting Lalbagh, and close to Ashoka Pillar, is worth Rs 200 crore. It was initially marked as a park and open space by the BDA. Siddaramaiah in 2014 got the land denotified in favour of a developer. This is gross misuse of power and cheating the people of Bengaluru who are struggling for lung space,” he said.
 
 Ashoka said the land located on survey number 27/1, 28/4, 28/5 and 28/6 was sought by the developer earlier also and made a request during the regime of the Jagadish Shettar-ruled BJP government. “However, citing denotification was not according to law, Shettar refused to do it. But in 2014, the developer applied again and got it denotified from Siddaramaiah,” Ashoka alleged.
 
 Shankar accused the BJP of raking up issues which are not related to the CM. “A woman in 2011 had sought for a change of land use. Later, she approached the high court and the government abided by the HC order in implementing it and allowed the change in land use. Now, the matter is pending before the SC. Just to impress his national president Amit Shah, Ashoka is trying to show that he’s active and is levelling false allegations against the CM,” he claimed.
 
 Issue of change of land use: BDA 
 
 BDA sources said the issue is not related to denotification but only ‘change of land use’.
 
 “The private players had sought for a change of land use and it was sanctioned in 2014, but the BDA reversed it and scraped the same in 2015. However, the parties got it restored with an order from the high court and the matter is pending before the Supreme Court. It is a court case between two private parties and the BDA has not denotified it,” said a senior BDA official.
 
 
