NAGPUR: After rejection of their bail pleas by the sessions court here, both sons of Omprakash alias Munna Yadav, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s close aide, have moved the high court to challenge the lower court order.

 The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Monday issued notice to Maharashtra government through Dhantoli police station inspector. Both cases were listed before justice Vinay Deshpande, who asked cops to file a reply within a week.
 
 Petitioners —   alias   (22), and Arjun alias Chintu Yadav (19) — were accused of attacking and seriously injuring  , his sister Manju, brothers Papa and Gabbar Yadav, and others, on October 21 over a dispute on bursting firecrackers. The victims had been attacked with sword, iron rods, sticks and bricks, which left them seriously injured. The police then booked them under various sections, including attempt to murder.
 
 Their father Munna Yadav, chairman of Maharashtra State Construction Workers’ Welfare Board, and mother Lakshmi, a   corporator from Ajni area, were also booked on similar charges along with them. While Yadav, the former BJP corporator from same area, is absconding for over two-and-a-half-months along with his younger brother Bala, his wife was granted interim bail by Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court.
 
 The brothers moved the HC after sessions judge   rejected their bail pleas on January 11 while relying on the police contention that charges against them were very serious in nature and “they were known criminals”.
 
 Earlier, applicants’ counsel Akshay Naik sought time to correct typing mistake in the cause title of siblings’ application. Additional public prosecutor Vinod Thakare waived notice for the respondent.
 
 While praying for bail, the duo contended that they surrendered unconditionally before the cops on December 30, and fully cooperated with them. All the required material like weapons used in the crime have also been recovered during their interrogation, and now there is no need for their custody, they claimed.
 
 
