THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Tourism minister Kadakampally   said on Monday that several projects approved by the department were being delayed or becoming non-starters due to the lack of coordination among various departments.

 “Often, major tourism projects involve the use of land owned by other departments and various other approvals are required from them for implementation. But, lack of support has led to a delay in implementing projects,” he said while concluding the discussions on demand for grants for tourism sector in the assembly. The minister said that government was considering the establishment of a coordination mechanism, under the chairmanship of the chief minister, to resolve the problem.
 
 On pollution of lakes by houseboats, Surendran said responsible tourism (RT) mission will initiate various measures, including a ban on plastic in houseboats, their classifications and various other cleaning activities to rectify the situation.
 
 “RT Mission has already identified 22 spots in   for strict implementation of green protocol,” he said.
 
 Elaborating on the progress of various major tourism projects, the minister said government has submitted the revised DPR for Rs 118-crore Sree Narayana pilgrim circuit project to the Centre for approval.
 
 “The Thalassery heritage project is being expanded with the inclusion of heritage sites in Kannur and Wayanad. Among other new projects are a tourism business park at   government guesthouse premises and tourism amenities at the 20 acres owned by the department at Veli,” he added.
 
 He said that the department will establish three new food crafts institutes. The new tourism regulatory authority will be formed soon to curb the ‘bad trends’ in the sector, including constructions in ecologically-sensitive areas and online frauds, he said.
 
 Surendran said government was also preparing a DPR for establishing more adventure sports activities at  , which had already conducted a paragliding festival. Government’s priority is to undertake ecotourism and farm tourism projects, but not violate strict regulations of the ministry of forest, he added.
 
