BENGALURU: The   education department’s decision to change the minimum age for admission to   from 5.1 years to 5.5 hasn’t found favour with private school managements.

 
 While a few schools claim they were admitting students who were 5.5 years, many said the order was issued after the admission process for this academic year was completed. The Karnataka Associated Management of Private Schools
 
 (KAMS) said the order issued on Wednesday will affect younger kids in the same class.
 
 The order says children aged five years and five months can get admission to Class 1 from this academic year. The earlier order, issued in 2017 for academic year 2018, had prescribed 5.1years as the ceiling for admission. The decision came after the Government Primary School Teachers’ Association demanded age relaxation, citing low enrolment in government schools.
 
 A younger student will fall back physically and psychologically in competitions with an older child in the same class. “The move will increase admissions in government schools and I’m not against it. But it’ll create a problem when a student who takes part in national or international games where age and weight categorisation of participants matter,” said D Shashi Kumar, general secretary, KAMS.
 
 Private schools which have both ICSE and   curricula say they won’t be affected. Madhu Naik, principal, St Anne’s School, Rajajinagar said, “The ICSE board informed us well in time that the age limit for admission to Class 1 should be 5.5 years and we followed it for students under SSLC too. Only SSLC schools will be affected by the confusion.”
 
 MA Khan, principal, KK English School, Varthur, said, “Ours is an SSLC school but we continued to admit students who have completed 5.5 years. The government keeps changing rules. The order will affect admission of students under the   quota as students already admitted are 5.1years old.”
 
 However, officials in the department of public instructions said students already admitted in private schools under the RTE quota will not be affected for the current academic year. From next year, they’ll have to be admitted after they complete 5.5 years.
 
 The second round of enrolment under RTE is going on across the state. Shashi Kumar said: “The new order might lead to misuse of RTE quota by parents. Those who failed to admit their children at 5.5 years will take cover under the order and apply for children older than 5.1 years,” he pointed out.
 
 
