CHANDIGARH: Aiming for the safety and security of religious places after incidents of five theft in the past four months, members of resident’s welfare society (RWS) of government houses in Sector 22 (GH-22) held a meeting with the managing committees of various religious places and suggested them steps that can be taken to make the premises safe. Installation of intruder alarms surfaced as a possible method to keep theft cases at bay. 

 Members have suggested additional security measures in various religious places where residents regularly visit to pay their obeisance. In two days’ time the GH 22- RWS visited eight of the religious places and met with their management to discuss considerable safety measures.
 
 GH 22- RWS suggested the managing committees of various religious places— Sanatan Dharam Mandir, Sector 22C ISKCON, Sector 36, Sanatan Dharam Mandir, Sector 23B, Gurudwara Sahib, Sector 22D, Muni ji Mandir, Sector 23C, Arya Samaj Mandir, Sector 22A, Shiv Triveni Mandir, Sector 22D, Satya Narayan Mandir, Sector 22C— about strengthening their anti-theft measures in the premises. During discussion, the members referring to the recent theft cases in religious places said even the CCTV cameras, which were installed in the campus, do not serve their purpose in avoiding the untoward incidents. Keeping the problem in view, it was suggested that intruder alarms should be installed in the premises of the temples. 
 
 Members informed the committees that an intruder alarm is based on wireless infra-red technology, where detectors fitted in it detects human movement and can be programmed for activation as and when required. The IR sensors catch human movement, trigger sirens, hooters and directly send signals to institution security personnel and then to police control room.
 
 Vinod Vashisht, president of the RWS of the GH-22 , said the managing committees of religious institutions are carrying out their internal security audits and strengthening their anti-theft measures. 
 
 He said during the meeting in ISKCON, the management talked about starting the process of installing the intruder alarms in their premises from the next week. 
 
 One of the managing committees invited the members as a special invitee in their in-house meeting that is scheduled to be held on Saturday to discuss this project. 
 
 Members have also decided that they will meet the police department officials and submit a memorandum asking for the installation of the intruder alarms at all religious places in the city. 
 
 A team comprising  , Jagdish Lal, Sushil Malhotra and   visited the aforementioned religious places and handed over the suggestions addressed to the managing committees of the religious places . 
 
 
