PATNA: All the colleges and PG departments of   (PU) will have biometric attendance system for their teachers and non-teaching staff by May 15, thanks to an initiative taken by governor-cum-chancellor Satya Pal Malik.

 According to PU vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad Singh,   have already been installed at PU main office, both Raja and Rani blocks of Darbhanga House, geography-cum-psychology complex at Patna College, department of education at Langertoli, Magadh Mahila College and Patna Women’s College. This machine is likely to be installed in all other institutions latest by May 15, he said on Wednesday.
 
 In PG departments of science faculty, all located at  , one biometric attendance machine will be installed each at mathematics-statistics complex, botany-zoology complex, administrative department and physics and chemistry departments. 
 
 One biometric machine will be installed for the staff of PU guesthouse, VC’s lodge and   at Krishnakunj, the VC said.
 
 On Patna College premises, biometric machines will be installed at three places, including administrative block and language block, according to a decision taken at a meeting of the college teachers held under the presidentship of principal Ezaj Ali Arshad.
 
 Meanwhile, a delegation of Patna University Teachers’ Association led by its president Randhir Kumar Singh met the VC on Wednesday and expressed concern over the recent circular linking payment of salaries with the submission of activities’ report of teachers every month. It demanded its immediate withdrawal for ensuring academic normalcy on the campus.
 
 The VC said the chancellor’s secretariat has sought from the university a detailed report about the compliance of the decisions taken at a meeting of the VCs at Raj Bhawan on April 16. The decisions included biometric attendance of university employees and teachers. 
 
 The university has also been asked to send a list of teachers and employees staying in their respective departments for the maximum and minimum time and also of teachers and employees registering maximum and minimum days of absence every month. 
 
 Taking exception to the recent exercise initiated by the authorities concerned for ensuring the presence of teachers on the campus, PU former senator and English teacher Shiva Jatan Thakur has questioned the legitimacy of the authority installing biometric machine to record the attendance of university teachers of the PG departments where advance teaching and research are imparted as part of statutory obligation.
 
 He said PU teachers were known for their outstanding erudition, innovation, innovative tools, research and extension and monumental contributions to their areas of interest, leading to a litany of national and international awards, including  . 
 
 He said it was demeaning and humiliating for the teachers to record their attendance in the biometric system twice a day for the entry and exit time even when they are engaged in teaching, examination, evaluation and research activities. He appealed to the chancellor to exempt university teachers from recording their attendance on biometric machine.
 
 
