KOLKATA: A young woman lieutenant in the Indian Army, posted in Tenga, Arunachal Pradesh, was on an initiation tour recently, which took her to a post at Kyapho in the Tawang sector. The post, at an altitute of 14,000 feet, was named “Ashish Top”. Her curiosity aroused, she asked around about the reason for the “very Bengali name” of an   post in Arunachal Pradesh. When she did learn who Ashish was, she could not speak for a few minutes. It was her father,  , who retired as a colonel of the Army of which she was now a part and who — at that very moment — was at home in Kalighat. 

 
 
  
 
 
 The call from   to Kalighat followed as soon as the daughter had composed herself after the “stunning discovery”. 
 
 “I was at home when I received a call from the commanding officer of the unit manning Ashish Top. He introduced himself and said how my daughter had broken down on coming to know that the post was named after me,” Das told TOI. “I may have told my family of our unit’s exploits in that sector in 1986 but my daughter was not even born then,” he added. “Actually, even I came to know about this post being named after me only in 2003, 17 years after we beat back troops of China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and occupied the post at 14,000 feet,” the retired colonel, who served with the Assam Regiment, said.
 
 Das recalled how the events of 1986 unfolded. The PLA had made deep incursions across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the   of Arunachal Pradesh and started constructing helipads and permanent structures. Later that year, Indian Army chief Gen K Sundarji launched what was to be known (though never officially acknowledged) as Operation Falcon. An entire infantry brigade was airlifted to a makeshift landing area at Zimithang, near Sumdorong Chu.
 
 “We had to blast our way through Bum La and reached the Sangetsar lake. The Chinese were sitting just across. Our orders were to hold ground and we dug in. Every officer must have made 17-20 copies of wills in the intervening days and handed them over to their adjutants. We started to move forward a few days later and also blasted Kyapho that was snowed in. We did not know that we had crossed the Chinese camp but maintained our position. There were attempts to supply rations by air but the drops landed inside China,” he said. “I remember surviving on rats. It was only later that skid boards were designed and rations reached us. A helipad was also constructed. There were firefights every day as we proceeded from one bunker to the next,” Col Das (retd) recalled.
 
 He remembers it was Onam when he, along with a small party, set out to return to base when they realised that the PLA was after them. Das (then a captain) opened fire on the Chinese, which forced the latter to give up the chase. The young captain and his men remained there for three days without food. “There would be heavy firing at night followed by white flares during the day and parleys with the local Chinese political commissar,” Das recalled.
 
 “It was funny. He had studied at the Jawaharlal Nehru University and understood every time my JCO used a swear word in Hindi. All he would do was wave his hands around at the peaks and claim them to be Chinese territory. But they gave up after a few days as we held on to our ground,” Das said.
 
 And he still remembers that he had not had a bath for almost three months and “was stinking” when he came face-to-face with then prime minister Rajiv Gandhi at the base.
 
 
