CHENNAI: Since V K   alone was residing with   before her hospitalisation in September 2016, only she knows everything about the former CM’s health and treatments given to her, observed justice A  , head of the one-man commission probing the circumstances surrounding the former CM’s hospitalisation, treatment and death, on Tuesday.

 Pointing out that Sasikala had not filed an affidavit before the commission, the judge noted that till now the commission doesn’t know anything about what happened in Jayalalithaa’s residence before her hospitalisation. Sasikala is the only one who knows everything about the former CM’s health, the judge noted. “Even the press release of the then governor in-charge doesn’t indicate that he has seen the then CM at the hospital.” “The panel is handicapped by the fact that Sasikala has not filed an affidavit yet,” the judge said and ordered her to file one within seven days of receipt of the order.
 
 
 
 Referring to a video clip of Jayalalithaa’s treatment, released days ahead of the recent RK Nagar byelections, the judge observed that the pen drive containing the video could have been given to the commission directly instead of being given to Sasikala’s nephew TTV Dhinakaran.
 
 The commission, which has already
 
 summoned Sasikala to submit information available with her before it, said her contention that she would decide to disclose information depending on the outcome of the commission’s evidence meant that she would not reveal the entire truth on her own.
 
 Later, though he acceded to the request of Sasikala’s counsel   that she should be allowed to cross-examine anyone who had made statements against her and that relevant documents too should be made available to her, Justice Arumughaswamy said the plea for cross-examination could be a delaying tactic.
 
 The commission then adjourned further hearing by 15 days to ‘enable her participation in the commission’s proceedings.’ She was also asked to file her sworn affidavit within seven days of the receipt of the copy of the order. Sasikala would also be able to examine ‘defence witnesses’ at her convenience.
 
 The commission had issued summons to her on December 21 last year stating that some witnesses had given statements which would ‘prejudically affect her interest’. She was asked to file a sworn affidavit along with evidence within 15 days.
 
 Her counsel Pandian had filed a plea with the commission stating that Sasikala would be able to file the affidavit only after she was given copies of the deposition made by other witnesses and they were cross-examined by him.
 
 This was on the grounds of ‘principles of natural justice’ and based on the January 4, 1989 Supreme Court verdict in   and Others vs Committee of Inquiry.
 
 Sasikala would not be given the copies of deposition made by Dr Sivakumar (her relative), Dr Balaji (Transtan member-secretary and the only government doctor to have seen Jayalalithaa during her treatment) and Poongundran (personal secretary of Jayalalithaa). This is because their deposition is not yet over, the commission said.
 
 Sasikala’s counsel would be able to cross-examine future witnesses examined by the commission ‘then and there’ or a day or two later, the commission said. Those who have deposed before the commission can also be cross-examined by her counsel.
 
 
 
