KOZHIKODE: Liberos in volleyball, introduced internationally in 1998, was a revolutionary change. They were introduced to strengthen the defence of a team. The advantage of libero is that they can enter and walk out freely during a match. On Sunday, playing in front of his home fans, Kerala's   CK exemplified how crucial a libero's role can be on the volleyball court. The veteran was at the top of his game against   in the quarterfinal clash as swung himself at Haryana's powerful smashes and clever drops. Though relieved at having carried his team through to the semifinals of the tournament, Ratheesh doesn't think it is easy being a libero. "Someone who doesn't know much about volleyball may not understand the contribution we make. But let me tell you, being a libero is a tough and demanding job," Ratheesh said.

 
 Ratheesh has been in prime form for Kerala right from the first match in this tournament. He was the libero when Kerala won last year's senior national in Tamil Nadu. Except Navy, Ratheesh has played for every major volleyball club in Kerala. "Not just famous clubs like BPCL, Cochin Customs, Cochin Port Trust or KSEB, I have played for even very small clubs. I had to play whenever a chance came in as I am yet to have a permanent job," Ratheesh said after Kerala's match against  .
 
 The thirty-eight -year-old Ratheesh came into volleyball in 1995 when he was in standard 10 in Nochat Higher Secondary School, Velliyoor. Ratheesh's elder brother Santhosh CK, who is deaf, was the one who brought his younger sibling into the game. Santhosh was a local star then and that helped Ratheesh in his early days. "There was a club in our place, Brothers Club, Moolad. I started in counter attacking position and later became a libero," said Ratheesh.
 
 Ratheesh was passionate about volleyball and failed in 10th standard. Though many well-wishers told him to attend exams again, Ratheesh could not do it. "I could have tried again but somehow it didn't happen. I was playing so many volleyball games all over Kerala and was not very concerned about exams then. But life became difficult when there was no permanent job. I tried many doors and some people gave me promises but nothing happened. I am hoping to win this championship for Kerala and try again for a job. Hope something works out this year," Ratheesh who is playing his seventh national championship for Kerala, added.
 
 Ratheesh who has been playing as a libero for the last 18 years says India's former assistant coach   and current Kerala coaches   and K   played a big role in shaping his career. "Chander Singh liked me very much. He helped me in two national camps in 2009 and 2010. Though I could not make it to the Indian team, those days in the camp were great. In 2005, when I was playing for Alappuzha in the state championship at  , we won the championship without losing a single set under coach Sunny Jospeh. That was a remarkable year in my career," Ratheesh said.
 
 And Ratheesh is hoping that he would be able to lay his hands on the winners' trophy on his home turf yet again.
 
