CHANDIGARH: When the Chandigarh Police cannot control motorcycles with modified silencers creating noise pollution, how can it   and   in the city, the   and   high said on Monday while slamming the cops.

  
  
 
 The court made the observations while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking stricter implementation of the rule banning modified motorcycles producing a highdecibel noise. The matter would come up for hearing on May 29. The court directed the cops to catch the offenders and if they have to go door-to-door for that purpose, they should or else their competence is at stake.
 
 During the resumed hearing of the case, the court observed that although the number of motorcycles with silencers have decreased, a few are openly flouting the high court’s directions and have no fear of law. The court directed the police to catch hold of these people as it wanted to see traffic violators who have the courage to violate the HC directions.
 
 The court said the problem of catching these traffic violators might be difficult in southern parts of the city due to high density of population, but police should have no such problem in northern sectors.
 
 While giving directions, the court had earlier observed that the traffic violators would be taught a lesson on how rules should be followed as it is going to get strict on violations. The court had asked the administration to continue strict action against the violators.
 
 On the last date of hearing, the high court bench had pointed out the working style of the Chandigarh Police. Justice A K   had observed that one morning he noticed that a traffic violator created nuisance with a modified silencer, following which he called up the station house officer of Sector 3 to catch hold of him. To his utter shock, neither the traffic violator was caught nor did the SHO turn up at 9.30 am. The court gave a dressing down to the police and observed that there was no need to give detailed affidavits and data in the court when the ground reality was entirely different.
 
 In this case, the petitioner, a Chandigarh resident, had submitted before the court that people were openly flouting traffic norms by getting silencers of their bikes removed and modified to produce a jarring noise which scares passers-by and creates noise pollution. It was also submitted that the modified bikes also create noise pollution by pressure horns, giving a succession of unduly harsh, shrill, loud and alarming noise.
 
