VADODARA: Members of the both   of the   (VMC) slammed the   and contracts in the city. 

 The elected representatives also expressed suspicion over the bidding process.
 
 It was a rare occasion when the ruling and opposition parties together vocally raised issue of possible irregularities. Even mayor Bharat Dangar joined the discussion and said that the names of some officials had come under the scanner even in the past.
 
 The issue was raised by opposition leader Chandrakant Shrivastava in the budget session of the civic body. Shrivastava pointed out that there was a scam in the tenders for sewage pumping stations’ operations and management. He said that conditions of the tenders were changed to favour some persons. He had recently visited such stations late in the night and found that personnel were missing at some places and pumps had been switched off in others.
 
 Shrivastava found support in none other than standing committee chairperson Dr Jigisha Sheth, who said that some changes in the tender conditions were made at a very late stage. “There have been incidents when we got only a single bid. In the second attempt, conditions were modified. Can this be done? There should be clarity on this front,” she said. Former opposition leader Chirag Zaveri from the Congress called the contracts a scam.
 
 VMC commissioner Vinod Rao informed the general board that CCTV cameras were being installed at all pumping stations. “These will be linked to the Central Command and Control Centre. We have also called the contractors in the past and given them clear directives,” he said. Rao added that the civic body was taking up automation of the pumping stations to ensure that there was least scope of negligence.
 
 Shrivastava said that after his round of the pumping stations, an engineer even had the audacity of saying that GPS systems should be installed on vehicles of elected representatives so that they can be tracked. Dangar said that such behaviour should not be tolerated and dignity of elected representatives should be maintained.
 
 
