CHENNAI: When   saw police and revenue officials on Saturday at the brick kiln where she was a bonded worker, what enveloped her first was fear, not relief. The seven months pregnant woman rushed to a hut nearby where she had left her four children but found it empty. 

 
  A social worker reaches out to the children who were asked to hide in the bushes
 
 What followed was a four-hour search for the children, aged between 4 and 7 years, in the kiln at   village, Chengalpet. Later, it turned out that employers were virtually holding children captive to make their parents remain bonded labourers.
 
 The team led by revenue divisional officer Muthuvadivel D, acting on a tip from 16 bonded workers rescued on Friday, inspected around 10 brick kilns in the village. The brick kiln where Devi and her husband   worked was the first. "By the time we reached the hut, the owners had already carted all the labourers out," said Muthuvadivel. Devi and Ravi, had missed their employer's warning as they toiled among the mounds of bricks. Their children didn't and were allegedly whisked away. 
 
 
 
 
 Ravi and Devi, natives of a village 30km from the kiln, had borrowed Rs 6,000 from the owner, also named Ravi, and had been slogging for the last six years to clear the loan. If they failed to meet the target at work, their children were physically hurt. If they wanted to go out, their children were retained as surety till they returned. The threat of their children being taken away if they went to the police was constantly dinned into them. On Saturday, Devi realised, those threats weren't empty. 
 
 Around 2pm, officials noticed a pair of footprints of a child in the sand. "At one point, the child was clearly being dragged," said a police officer. The footprints led to thorny bushes where all four children were. "The children said the kiln's owner's wife had led them out of the hut and told them to run. When they couldn't keep pace, she left them in the bushes and asked them to keep quiet," said David Sunder Singh, an advocate who was part of the inspection team. The couple and their children were rescued and the family issued release certificates.
 
 Later, the RDO lodged a complaint against the kiln owner, who is on the run, and against 10 brick kilns in the village for setting up shop on government poramboke land. Since 2016, at least 200 people have been rescued from Kancheepuram after they were found working, some for over 10 years, for less than the minimum wages to pay off paltry advances.
 
 Organisations working against bonded labour say instances of children being used as surety or being physically abused to warn their bonded labour parents is growing. 
 
 "In December last year, when a woman tried to escape from a brick kiln in Vellore with her two children, two bikers took away her children. Her employer knew she would return for them," said Sharon Sathisam of International Justice Mission. 
 
 
 
