LUCKNOW: A young Muslim Congressman from UP's Jaunpur will spearhead Congress' minority agenda. The party appointed  , former   from Jaunpur Sadar, as the chairperson of All India   Committee's Minority department on Tuesday.

 Appointment of the 41 year old Javed is being seen as part of Congress strategy to bring in young faces and infuse a new life into the party and steer it into the 2019 Lok Sabha elections under the leadership of  . A mass communication graduate from DU, Nadeem represents his party on national news channels as a media panelist.
 
 Sharing his reaction over the new responsibility, Nadeem said, "I feel humbled by the trust showered upon me by our president Rahul Gandhi. I shall work to strengthen the organisation." Nadeem replaced Khurshid Ahmed Saiyed, an advocate and , was appointed chairman of the minority department of All India Congress Committee on Saturday. He has been serving the party as the general secretary of Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) for nearly seven years.
 
 Javed won over Rahul Gandhi during his term as the president of National Students Union of India. It was under Javed's leadership that NSUI won all the seats in Delhi University elections.
 
 Known for his impressive oratory and fiery speeches since his days in NSUI, Javed was spotted senior Congress leader Mukul Wasnik about 15 years ago. After NSUI, Javed served as general secretary of Indian Youth Congress.
 
 And more recently, he was one of the few persons including Priyanka Gandhi who hosted the Congress Plenary sessions in March 2018. "He is perhaps the youngest person to be heading such an important position in the organisation," said Zeeshan Haider, UP Congress spokesperson.
 
 Congress sources said that keeping in mind the role of youths in 2019 Lok Sabha, Javed - who is an established Muslim face within the community - will play an important role.
 
 "His debut in politics was remarkable. He won the Jaunpur sadar seat in 2012 state elections with a margin of around 50,000 votes from a tripartite contest. Nadeem defeated the sitting muslim MLA and a muscle man who were in the fray with him," said a senior leader.
 
 Though Nadeem lost the 2017 vidhan sabha election to BJP's Girish Chandra Yadav with a margin of around 12,000 votes, he is remembered for his bollywood like entry into Jaunpur in 2012. "His first public meet saw a motor-cycle rally comprising over 2,000 bikers and the descent of a helicopter carrying senior congress leaders to launch Nadeem," recalled a Congress worker in Jaunpur.
 
 Sources also said that the rise of Nadeem would weaken the position of UP Minority Cell chief Siraj Mehdi who also hails from Jaunpur. It is claimed that Nadeem and Siraj don't support each other since party leadership preferred Nadeem over Siraj from Jaunpur sadar seat in 2012 Vidhan Sabha.
 
