Ghaziabad: Locals alleged on Tuesday that bootlegging and sale of   liquor were rampant in   Colony, with several women having taken up jobs of retail sale of illegal alcohol from their  . They have alleged that cops are hand-in-glove with the   smugglers.

 While Ghaziabad SSP Hari Narayan Singh has suspended four cops of Khoda police station, including SHO Dhruv Bhushan Dubey, the district administration has recommended the suspension of three officials of the excise department as well, hours after four persons died after allegedly consuming spurious liquor in the area.
 
 Khoda-based social activist, Dorris Francis told TOI: “Police and excise department officials have passed the buck on each other whenever we have complained about the sale of smuggled liquor in Khoda Colony. Smugglers procure cheap liquor from Haryana and Delhi, where prices are lower as compared to UP. These bottles are being sold from houses in Khoda with several women having taken up jobs to sell smuggled liquor in retail which is at its peak every evening. There is no single point of sale of illegal liquor in Khoda. You can buy illicit liquor from many households.”
 
 On February 7, Ghaziabad police had nabbed a bootlegger from Khoda Colony and seized two scooters which he had retrofitted with boxes to transport contraband liquor. One person, identified by police as Jai Chand, was arrested for allegedly using the modified scooters for delivery of liquor on orders received through phone calls.
 
 Around 20 days ago, a huge cache of smuggled liquor was recovered from a storeroom on a plot of land in Sangam Park adjoining the Hindon Canal in Khoda during a police raid.
 
 Khoda municipality chairman Reena Bhati, wife of the slain BJP leader Gajendra Bhati, visited families of the deceased on Tuesday. “The sale of illegal liquor was stopped only for around four days, following the incident. It began full-fledged manner thereafter.”
 
 “Since Ghaziabad is a transit point, liquor consignment from Haryana and Rajasthan to other eastern states passes through the city,” said joint excise commissioner of   zone Rajesh Mani Tripathi .
 
 
