PHULBARI (MEGHALAYA): The crowd that turned up at BJP's election rally here on Thursday was representative of the diversity of the constituency itself. 

 People from the varied ethnic communities which live in Phulbari, one of the least developed parts of the state, were seen turning up in traditional attire at the rally venue - a paddy field about 2.5 km from the town, where a stage had been fashioned out of pre-existing steel structures. Addressing the crowds, Modi said, "Aap logo ko dekh kar aisa lag raha hain ki Phulbari mein is baar phul ki bari (It looks like it is time for the flower to bloom in Phulbari). Like old leaves wilt and fall on the ground in spring, the old will go away and the lotus will bloom in Meghalaya politics."
 
 On Thursday, the dusty town of 3,000-odd residents was virtually empty. With vague hopes of 'development' on mind, everyone had flocked to where the Prime Minister would be delivering his speech. 
 
 Mizanur Rahman (65), who owns a small tea stall here, said, "If our Prime Minister, who sold tea once, is in our locality, how can I stay away? I take pride in Modi because he also started out by selling tea." Rahman said he had become a BJP member in 2014 when Modi was sworn in as Prime Minister. "Muslims in Phulbari are not averse to BJP. In fact, many from my community are becoming members of BJP. After all, it's development that our constituency desperately needs. We have reposed faith in Congress for many years now," Rahman said.
 
 Ramon Hajong, another participant at the rally, said the Prime Minister choosing Phulbari as his rally venue highlights the need for change here. "Tell me if you can find a good road in Phulbari. I came to listen to what Modi has to say about development in our area," Ramong said.
 
 This Muslim-majority constituency, bordering Assam's Dhubri district and 35 km from the India-Bangladesh boundary, has sent Congress MLA Abu Taher Mondal to the assembly for the last two terms. He is seeking a third consecutive term, but BJP and National People's Party (NPP) have emerged as major challengers to the Congress.
 
 About 500 km from Shillong, Phulbari constituency has about 25,600 electorates, with Muslims comprising over 12,000. Others include 8,500 Garo voters and about 5,600 Hindu voters, mostly comprising Bengalis, Hajongs and Rabhas.
 
 
