AMRITSAR: Veteran Akali leader and former chief secretary of the SGPC Manjit Singh Calcutta died in Amritsar on Wednesday. He was 79. He was not keeping well for the past few weeks and died at a private hospital, his family members said.

 Calcutta is survived by his wife Santokh Kaur, son Gurpreet Singh and two daughters, who live in Canada. His cremation will take place at 12 noon on Thursday.
 
 Calcutta had remained the education minster in the Badal government when Panthic Sikh leader and SGPC president Gurcharan Singh Tohra was alive. Calcutta joined politics in 1955 when he was made the national president of the Sikh student outfit -- All India Sikh Students Federation. Calcutta, a law graduate from the University College of Law of Calcutta in 1966, came to Delhi in 1968.
 
 Septuagenarian Akali leader Manjit Singh Calcutta, who turned a rebel after remaining close to Badals for a fairly long time, passed away here on Wednesday. He occupied influential posts, including the minister of higher education and chief secretary, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC). As a mark of respect, the   government announced half-day holiday in the state offices and educational institutes.
 
 Calcutta (79) is survived by wife, a son and two daughters. According to Calcutta’s relatives, he had been admitted to a private hospital since January 4. He breathed his last at around 6.30 am on Wednesday and his cremation would take place on Thursday.
 
 Calcutta began his political career in 1954 when he became the president of All India Sikh Students Federation (AISSF). Later, he entered religious circles and became secretary, Sri Guru Singh Sabha, Kolkata. He later also became general secretary Shiromani Akali Dal ( ).
 
 After his LLB from Kolkata, he shifted base to Delhi in 1966. He took keen interest in the activities of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee and eventually went on to become its general secretary as well as the president.
 
 He also remained the SGPC chief secretary, besides being secretary twice in 1988 and 2004. Apart from being a close confidant of Parkash Singh Badal, Calcutta had been closely associated with other key Akali leaders   and Surjit Singh Barnala. He was elected as an MLA from Amritsar (South) assembly constituency in 1997 and became the minister of higher education.
 
 Later, he developed differences with Badal and proximity with SAD (Amritsar) president Simranjit Singh Mann. In the recent past, he was known to laud Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leadership.
 
 After his demise, the SGPC staff held a meeting to mourn the death of its chief secretary. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said Calcutta’s contribution in the Panthic circles would always be remembered. AISSF’s   also grieved the death of the veteran Akali leader.
 
 SAD (Amritsar) chief Mann said Calcutta was not only an intellectual but a visionary leader having deep insight of Khalsa Panth and his death was an irreparable loss to the mankind.
 
 Punjab assembly speaker Rana KP expressed grief over the demise of former state cabinet minister and honorary chief secretary of   (SGPC) Manjit Singh Calcutta. In his condolence message, the speaker remembered his contributions as the member of Punjab Vidhan Sabha and minister for higher education.
 
 
