SURAT: With the country’s leading public sector banks facing massive financial turmoil following the multi-crore fraud by billionaire Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi, diamond   companies in the world may be at the receiving end in 2018 as far as sale of rough diamonds to Indian   companies is concerned. 

 India is the largest diamond cutting and manufacturing centre with total rough diamond imports pegged at $17 billion per annum. Hence, India, especially Surat, processes around 90 per cent of diamonds mined around the world. 
 
 An independent diamond analyst based in New York Paul Zimnisky told TOI, “There are two primary resulting concerns after Modi and Choksi episode. One that this will further startle already fragile sentiment of lenders and investors to the industry which will ultimately pressure demand for rough and wholesale polished, and two is that it will diminish end-consumer demand for diamond jewellery due to consequential perception and tarnished confidence in purchasing the product. The latter more specific to domestic consumers in India, this is a longer term implication.”
 
 Zimnisky added, “If this situation is relatively contained to Modi’s portfolio and Gitanjali, the longer term outcome could have some positive longer-term consequences as well as lenders to the industry will inevitably become more select, which should rein in some excess speculation and leverage in the industry, which had arguably hurt manufacturing margins in recent years.”
 
 Recently, the world’s largest diamond mining company De Beers predicted its rough diamond production to a high point in 2018 as a number of its mines approach the end of their lifespan. The company is planning production of 36 million carats in 2018, up from the 33 million carats it unearthed last year.
 
 Leading diamond mining companies do not offer any credit to diamond companies when it comes to selling their rough diamonds. The diamond companies have to take letter of undertaking (LOU) and letter of comfort (LOC) to pay against the stocks purchased. 
 
 Diamond industry analyst   said, “The Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi’s multi-crore bank scam is going to squeeze bank credit in the diamond industry, resulting in more financial trouble and operating difficulties for the companies. The LOUs and LOCs are must for purchasing high-value rough diamonds. If the banks have decided to stop issuing fresh LOCs and LOUs, the going will get tough for the diamond companies.”
 
 Recently, Bank of Baroda, which is among the leading banks financing the diamond industry, instructed all its branches across the country to not issue LOUs and LOCs in favour of overseas supplier, bank or financial institution on behalf of the customers for trade credit effective February 20.
 
 
