Thiruvananthapuram: The squad formed by district administration to check   in view of   has taken tough stand against temples which violated norms.

 The squad led by assistant collector Anupam Misra, has served stop memo to three major temples in the city, which refused to comply with the norms. 
 
 Stop memos were served to Sreekanteswaram Mahadeva Temple, Gowreesapattom Mahadeva Temple and Nathencode Mahadeva Temple after the inspection conducted on Tuesday night. As part of Sivarathri celebrations, all temples had arranged   which functioned above permissible noise levels. The stop memo was issued after the temple authorities refused to comply with the norms even after the squad pointing it out to the authorities, said district collector K Vasuki.
 
 The squad also visited Balasubramaniam Temple at Kowdiar and Pallimukku Temple. Responding to the warning, the temple authorities there decided to lower the volume of loud speakers. 
 
 The district collector said that measures such as registering of police case will be initiated against authorities who refuse to comply with the norms. 
 
 As per norms, use of loud speakers above 75 decibels near public roads and 65 decibels near residential areas are not permissible. Also there will be strict action for operating loud speakers between 10pm and 6am. Vasuki said that mike operators and organisers, who violate norms, will have to face cases that will include fine and imprisonment.
 
 The squad, which inspected temples on Tuesday, comprised Tahasildar, station house officer of the respective area and representatives of pollution control board.
 
 Carrying forward the fight against  , the district administration also decided to revive the toll free helpline number which can be used by public to register complaints. The toll free number, arranged in association with the IMA, will be operational within two days, said the collector. 
 
 IMA district president Dr John Panicker said that the helpline number 9596963636 will be active in two to three days.
 
 On initiating a campaign against noise pollution, Dr Panicker said that second important reason for increase in lifestyle diseases is stress and noise pollution is one major reason which increases stress. “Be it diabetes, blood pressure or any lifestyle disease, high decibel noise can worsen the condition of the patient,” he said.
 
 
