Kunwar Singh, a Sector 40 resident, would often leave Toby, his two-year-old beagle, and his Labrador, to play in an open plot near his home. "My dogs are aggressive, that's why I used to leave them in the open area," he said. But things changed for the Gurgaon resident last month when Toby went missing from the nearby plot. "I went to call him inside at 10.30 in the morning, but couldn’t find him. I found some biscuits lying there, which must have been used to lure him. I filed a police complaint on the same day and have been searching for him since then," he said.

  
  
 
    has always haunted Gurgaon pet parents and such cases seem to be on the rise these days. Even though only two cases have been registered in the past six months, Gurugrammers in Sector 40 and the adjoining sectors 31 and 39 say that there have been more such cases in the area, at least six. Pet parents are worried that these are not random incidents and there could be illegal bredeers and dog sellers at work here.
 
  
  Conscious pet owners are not leaving their dogs alone and are accompanying them for walks (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  
 Kunwar filed a missing report but it didn't help him much. He pasted and distributed posters and searched in areas of the city where dogs are said to be sold illegally. "I went to the Sector 40 police station but was advised not to lodge a complaint. I then filed a complaint on the website of Gurgaon Police and got a call back to go to the station and file a missing report. They told me that they will help me rescue the dog if I spot him. They also asked me to visit the slum areas near Artemis hospital," he says. Another area that Kunwar claimed that he was shocked to visit was the truck stand between Hero Honda Chowk and Hans Enclave. "I saw suspicious looking men roaming with dogs of good breed on the roads, then I was told that there are few houses there who sell stolen dogs illegally," he said, adding that this spot was suggested by a veterinary doctor. 
 
  
 We found that incidents of dog thefts are common in the sector. A dog theft was recently prevented at the main gate of the Sector 40 society. The shopkeeper at the general store in front of the main gate of the society spotted a suspicious looking man taking a Labrador with him. He alerted the guard and when he followed, the guard found a van parked ahead of the gate. "I was standing at the gate when the shopkeeper alerted me that the man is taking a dog, so I followed him and saw a van with others in it. I realised they were trying to put the dog into the van. Luckily, I got hold of the dog and returned it to his owner, Vansh, who lives in the society," the guard said.
 
  "I'd tied my Labrador outside my house at night, and when I went out in the morning, his leash was untied and he was missing. I have filed a police complaint," said Rimmi Negi, a Sector 31 resident whose dog went missing recently. 
 
  
  
 
  "We'd lost our Labrador named Caesar a year ago. We found him in a nearby village at that time. He was again kidnapped a few months back and we haven't found him yet," said Nikki Upadhyay, a resident of Sector 40.
 
  Another case is of a cocker spaniel. "My dog was roaming in a small field in our locality and she went missing from there. Since I am a vet, I know breeders in town. I asked them to help me find her. After a few days, I got a call from a local breeder and he returned the dog to me," shared Dr Ankur, a veterinary physician from Sector 40.
 
  
 "We only have one case of dog theft registered from this locality. There is nothing more that we are aware of," an official at the Sector 40 police station said.
 
  When we approached ASI Jitendra Singh at the Sector 40 police station, he said, "I am handling Kunwar's case. I have been posted here for the last four months and this is the first dog theft complaint I have come across. We do not have records of any such racket in the area. Also, it is very difficult to track such cases. We can't check every house."
 
  "We hardly receive dog theft complains. If the owner can prove that the dog was stolen or kidnapped, we file a theft complaint, otherwise we file a missing complaint. During my tenure here, I have never come across a case where a dog has been rescued. Kidnappers don't call for ransom. If they did, we could have had a good chance to nab them," said Rupesh Kumar, Duty Officer and Head Constable at the Sector 40 police station. 
 
  
 The locality has formed a youth club for pet safety called   and have a made a Whatsapp group to ensure safety of pets. "We are very careful about our   these days. We keep them inside and always accompany them for walks," said Deepak Dutta, a member of the club. 
 
  "Guards are always present at our society gate, but they cannot distinguish between a potential dog kidnapper and a dog walker," said Yogesh Mehta, a resident of Sector 40. "Our locality has many pet parents. These frequent thefts are worrisome and I feel that this can't be done by random people. Rackets, people who know how to lure dogs, are working in the area," said Bhupinder Bali, another resident of Sector 40.
 
  
 "Often, pet parents do not register complaints of their missing pets. The severity of the issue cannot be highlighted unless the cases are registered. The NGO can put pressure on authorities, but for that, people need to file complaints," said Amit Chaudhery, President, People For Animals, Gurgaon.
 
 --Aurushi.Goswami@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
