NEW DELHI: In a move that echoes concerns voiced by the city’s resident welfare associations, the   restrained the Centre, Delhi government and   ( ) on Tuesday from amending the   to give relief to traders from the ongoing  .

 
  
 
 The upshot of the SC move is that the sealing drive against carrying on with business operations from residential premises in violation of law will continue, as the apex court expressed its deep annoyance over DDA, the civic bodies and the Delhi government not “bothering” to file replies to queries raised by the court.
 
 “What are you doing? You are telling the Supreme Court that you can do whatever you want to do. It is not acceptable. It is contempt of court and we can ask your vice-chairman to appear before us for not complying with our order. This ‘dadagiri’ has to stop,” the bench told DDA’s lawyer.
 
 The court had asked for responses on the adverse impact of amendment of the Master Plan and a bench of Justices Madan B Lokur and Deepak Gupta slammed the authorities for not complying with its order and said it amounts to contempt of court. It said any proposed amendment will not be enforced without the court’s approval.
 
 The bench had sought on February 9 an explanation from DDA, along with the Delhi government and the civic corporations, on whether proper research or study was carried out on the impact of the proposed amendments on the environment and the existing infrastructure of the capital. It had asked the authorities to respond on nine points, including pollution, traffic congestion, environment, fire safety and population.
 
 The ministry of housing and urban affairs had held detailed consultations that aimed at changing floor area ratio norms to provide relief from sealing and also incorporate measures to curb the operation of pubs, restaurants and clubs in “mixed-use” areas. But with the authorities concerned failing to file response, the SC directed them to put the amendment of the Master Plan on hold.
 
 The bench had earlier termed DDA as “Delhi Destruction Authority” for destroying the city by allowing rampant unauthorised construction with no basic amenities and had asked it not to “succumb to pressure” to regularise illegal structures by amending the Master Plan in haste without holding consultations with stakeholders.
 
 The sealing drive was revived in January for unauthorised constructions after the SC allowed the court-appointed monitoring committee to identify and seal illegal premises as government authorities had failed to check building of such illegal structures.
 
 The apex court had ordered in March 2006 to seal all unauthorised constructions in the city and appointed a monitoring committee which was given the task to conduct and monitor the sealing drive.
 
 The sealing drive went on till January 2012 when the court asked the committee not to proceed further as the government has brought in force the 2021 Master Plan for regularising some of the illegal structures.
 
