Coimbatore: India Inc. is worried about rising protectionism across the globe.  Almost nine in ten businesses in India feel that governments are turning increasingly protectionist, leading to a rise in the cost of doing international business, altering trade routes and raising hurdles to obtaining trade finance. This is significantly higher than the global average where, of the 6,000 firms surveyed by global banking major HSBC, three in five (61%) think governments are becoming more protective of their domestic economies. Other regions where the sentiment is strongest among companies are MENA or Middle East North Africa region (70%) and Asia- Pacific (68%).  In the US, 61% believe protectionism is on the rise, while in Europe, half (50%) are seeing a rise in protectionist tendencies. “An increase in protectionist sentiment is causing concern about the cost of doing cross-border trade and international business. Companies are adapting business plans and relationships to participate in shifting supply chains,” said Rajat Verma, head, commercial banking, HSBC India. “Strategies include increasing regional trade, establishing joint ventures or local subsidiaries in more markets and capitalising on trends in consumer demands and digital technologies,” he said. Globally, a majority of firms are looking to regional partners to develop trade opportunities, with almost three quarters (74%) of overseas trade in Europe and Asia-Pacific being conducted within their ‘home’ region. “This trend is set to continue with regional ties being prioritised in firms’ expansion plans for the next three to five years,” the HSBC survey stated. “Firms around the world are very focused on growth, with more than three in four (77%) businesses optimistic about their international business prospects, and expect the volume of trade to increase over the next 12 months,” it said. “Reasons behind this confidence include an increase in demand for their products from consumers and businesses (33%), favourable economic conditions (31%) and the greater use of technology (22%) in driving growth,” the survey found. “Trade initiatives that are likely to lower trade barriers are viewed positively in India, as a consequence of the especially high concern about protectionism. Indian firms are the most united in the positive impact of ASEAN 2025 and SAFTA (South Asian Free Trade Area) on their businesses,” HSBC said.