KOCHI: Within months after hosting its maiden heritage walk,  , for the first time, found a place in a national level heritage walk, ‘India Heritage Walk Festival’ organized by Sahapedia, an online resource centre for arts and culture.

 The walk titled ‘Stories of the Throne—Exploring Tripunithura—which was held on Saturday morning, took the participants through some of the important sites in town, including Statue Square, Clock Tower (Manimalika), Poornathrayeesa Temple, Kalikotta Palace, Iron Bridge and the elephant stables.
 
 “An enthusiastic crowd of about 20-25 had come for the walk, which started at 8am. Many historical points of interest with regards to the Cochin Royal Family were covered during the walk, with an elder from the royal family accompanying the participants to narrate anecdotes and stories about those places,” said Balagopal CK, who guided the tour. The tour ended at the gates of Sree Poornathrayeesa Temple.
 
 “Members of the royal family were in touch with us for the past six-eight months, during which we used to hold heritage walks independently for underprivileged kids around Fort Kochi and Mattancherry. This month, however, being a heritage month, we decided to take up Tripunithura in the map of our heritage walks across India,” said   NG, research coordinator, Sahapedia.
 
 It was during the mapping of   that Sahapedia got in touch with the Tripunithura heritage sites, following which a preliminary mapping was done around the sites. “After the mapping of Fort Kochi, Mattancherry and Muziris, we did a module on Tripunithura, prior to which we had little knowledge about the town’s historicity and relevance. We learned about the connection between the town and Shaktan Thampuran, whose nieces resided in the town, and more,” Ardra added.
 
 The walk, which was the first in the series of heritage walks as part of the festival, will now be followed with two more events curated by Sahapedia. On February 17, artist Aditi Nayar will lead a walk around the Museum of Kerala History in Edapally.
 
 A‘baithak’ will be held on February 23 to discuss the history of Jews in Kochi, led by   ( ) Josephai, the current custodian of the Kadavumbagam Synagogue in Mather Bazaar and one of the few Jews remaining in Kerala.
 
