INDORE: The high court on Thursday granted last opportunity to state bar council to file reply to the petition seeking implementation of one bar one vote rule. 

 Meanwhile,   submitted its reply objecting to applicability of the rule for the state and said that the practice of allowing all members of the association to vote was an age old tradition and that there is no reason to change it. 
 
 The division bench of   and Justice Virendra Singh has listed the petition on January 23. The term of current high court bar’s executive body is scheduled to end on first week of February. 
 
 The Indore high court bar association, in its reply has also said that the one bar one vote rule did not apply to the state. The court took the reply on record and directed state bar council to submit reply before next date of hearing. 
 
 Seeking early hearing of the matter before expiry of tenure of the current bar executive body, petitioner advocate Amol Shrivastava argued that the list of advocates, who had opted to vote only for Indore high court bar association, was ready with the state bar council and despite that, the rule is not being implemented here. 
 
 “The state bar council had also given an undertaking before the principal bench of   high court in an earlier petition stating they will ensure that the one bar one vote rule is implemented in all bar associations of the state,” Shrivastava said. 
 
 The petitioner has also filed an interim application seeking directions to state bar council to prepare electoral list, call for claims and objections and conduct elections with those voters, who have opted to cast their votes at high court. 
 
 The rule was needed, after it was found that at  , some voters had registered themselves only for casting votes. This practice was challenged in a petition filed at Apex Court, and the court ordered   to implement one bar one vote rule. 
 
 This rule mandates that one advocate can cast his vote only in one bar association elections. He/she can be a member of multiple associations, but will have power to case vote at one place only.
 
 
