NEW DELHI: With the preliminary fact-finding report by Delhi government pinning the responsibility of Saturday’s   in   on the north corporation, a   game has started between the agencies that are expected to keep the city safe.

 In its report to industries minister Satyendar Jain, Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (DSIIDC) has concluded that it “doesn’t have any regulatory functions and is primarily involved in development of industrial estates”. Washing its hands off the incident, it has advised that “authorities concerned should initiate necessary measures so that such threat to life and properties can be avoided in future.”
 
 The municipal corporation, which has been repeatedly pointed out as the mandated agency in the DSIIDC report, is expected to come out with its own fact-finding report in the next 48 hours.
 
 Compiled by the DSIIDC chief engineer, the report lists various acts and provisions according to which the corporation and its commissioner should be held responsible for the violations that led to the tragedy.
 
 “Provisions related to building construction and grant of factory/trade licence are in the domain of corporations under DMC Act 1957. Under Section 416 (1) of DMC Act, no person shall without previous permission of the commissioner, begin   or any other work in any premises,” the report reads.
 
 The report also points out that municipal commissioners can issue orders to vacate buildings that are unsafe. The buildings can also be asked to be vacated in cases of violations in approved layout plan and construction.
 
 The fire accident on Saturday, which claimed 17 lives, took place in the illegal firecracker factory on plot F-83 in Sector 5 of Bawana industrial area. It was allotted to a businessman, Subhash Mittal, in lieu of relocating from Vishwas Nagar in east Delhi and granted a licence for plastic goods.
 
 North corporation has argued that it had cancelled the licence of Uma Mittal (the original owner’s wife) in 2014. No licence was issued subsequently for the plot. “We have already passed and forwarded the resolution to hand over the licensing powers to Delhi government,” said a senior official from the licensing department of north corporation.
 
  
  
 
 “Monitoring power rests with many authorities, like Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), fire department and industries department. Our role is restricted to ensuring that such establishments do not create nuisance in a residential neighbourhood. DSIIDC, which takes monthly charges from the owners, should monitor the area,” the official added.
 
 The corporation is no longer issuing any new licenses in areas like Bawana. “We have no power to issue licences if the applicant is not the original allottee. The original allottees sold their plots and moved on right under the nose of DSIIDC. All transactions, including this one, happened illegally,” said the senior corporation official.
 
 The civic body also argued that its enforcement powers are restricted to industrial activity in non-conforming areas, like villages and residential colonies. “DPCC, fire department and industries department are responsible for conforming areas like Bawana,” the official added.
 
 North mayor Preety Agarwal said that as per Factories Act 1948 the governance of such areas is administered by the labour and industries department, not the local bodies. “I have ordered the commissioner to submit a fact-finding report within 48 hours,” she added.
 
 
