GURGAON: The main   that connects the Basai   treatment plant (WTP) with the Sector 16-based boosting station was damaged on Wednesday afternoon, temporarily affecting supply to large parts of the city.

 The pipeline, which was installed last week replacing the old one, was damaged allegedly by a group of workers, deployed by a private developer, who were trying to make connection without taking any permission from  . Owing to high pressure, the leaked pipe let out 30-foot-tall water jets into the air, flooding the road near the   WTP.
 
 Though the workers fled the spot immediately, water continued to drain down the road for about two hours before Huda officials swung into action and shut down the treatment plant. The disruption apparently did not trouble the residents much as Huda supplies water only twice a day (morning and evening).
 
 Later, Huda’s sub-divisional engineer   said, “We have fixed the leakage and supply has been resumed.” He added that the authority was trying to identify those responsible for the pipeline damage.
 
 The main pipeline from Basai WTP to the boosting station was replaced, for which Huda had observed a 36-hour shut down last week. Sources said a residential project in Sector 37C had the connection from the old pipeline. After the pipeline change, the supply to the residential society was disrupted. On Wednesday, the developer had allegedly deployed some workers to restore the connection, causing damage to the pipeline.
 
 “If the developer already had a connection, he should have informed Huda before trying to make a link. If it was found that the developer was making an illegal connection, appropriate action will be taken against him. We will investigate the matter,” said Mallik.
 
 Meanwhile, to reduce the load on Basai treatment plant, Huda is going to link a few sectors in Old Gurgaon with Chandu Budhera WTP. For the purpose, the supplies to sectors 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9 and 9A will remain suspended on Friday. Huda has urged the residents of the affected sectors to store up water.
 
 Currently, the city gets 60 MGD of water from Basai and 20MGD from Chandu Budhera. The capacity of Chandu Budhera has been augmented by another 22 MGD. “Now, these sectors (mentioned above) will get water from Chandu Budhera, instead of Basai,” said Singh.
 
 
