TRICHY: In a recent survey conducted by a centre for research and advocacy,   was appreciated for pursuing waste segregation at source and other solid waste management initiatives taken such as decentralised waste collection to keep the city clean ahead of cleanliness survey,   Survekshan 2018. However, the survey suggested that the civic body should put more emphasis on ensuring proper medical facilities for sanitary workers.

 Conducted by Change India NGO on February 6 and 7, the survey received inputs from several sanitary workers including permanent and temporary conservancy workers involved in cleaning Woriayur, Karumandapam, Dindigul road and Periyamilaguparai localities. 
 
 “Sanitary workers we interacted with are quite happy about their salary, Rs 295 per day, being paid on time. Similarly, the money generated in recycling the potential waste were shared among the group of sanitary workers which gives them additional income apart from daily wage,”  , researcher with Change India told TOI.
 
 The report sheds light on the poor usage of safety equipment including gloves and masks among the sanitary workers as the emphasis from civic body to wear the safety gears is lagging. “Through our interaction with sanitary workers, civic sense in Trichy seems to be better than other cities including Chennai as people of Trichy feel proud in being named as the cleanest city of the state. However, not all are segregating the waste at source. Subsequently, burden falls on sanitary workers to segregate the collected waste,” Sharmada added.
 
 Change India by stating that conservancy workers should be focused on in ‘Clean India Campaign’ insisted the Trichy Corporation to conduct special medical camps to treat the skin and eye related ailments among the sanitary workers and also to ensure that safety gears are used by them during cleaning drives.
 
 Reacting to the report, Trichy Corporation commissioner   said, “The change among people to segregate waste at source was possible only because of awareness drives. We are treating our sanitary workers amicably, once in six months medical camps are being conducted.” The corporation commissioner also added that sanitary workers would be insisted on using safety gears.
 
 
