By Prachi Arya

 Owing to the on-going construction of the  , like last year, this year too the 
 y celebrations will be affected. While every year the parade used to conclude at KD Singh Babu Stadium coming in straight from Hindi Sansthan, this year, because of the Metro construction in  , the Republic Day parade will take a left turn towards   Theatre at Rani Lakshmibai Marg and will then reach the stadium. 
 The Lucknow Metro Rail Corporation (LMRC) officials say they are making all efforts to ensure a smooth Republic Day parade. Kumar Keshav, MD, Lucknow Metro Rail Corporation, shares, "Just like last year, this year too we have cleared a carriageway of 8-9 metres from Rana Pratap Marg to   for the Republic Day parade. Since the heavy construction of the Lucknow Metro is already taking place on the route of the parade, we will be able to provide half of the road for the Republic Day celebrations. There are some areas where the administration wanted a few extra metres, which we have managed to provide to them. The main areas where maximum changes are required are   and Hazratganj. We are in the process of repairing the roads there." 
 
 
 
 
 Telling us more about the changed route for the parade,   Mishra, SP East, says, "Every year we used to follow our traditional route for the parade, but now because of the Lucknow Metro construction certain alterations have been made in the route. The parade will start from Bal Bharti Sangrahalaya near Charbagh, covering various landmarks like Gupta Tiraha, Gautam Budh Nagar, Basmandi Chauraha, Lal Kuan Chauraha, Maharana Pratap Chauraha, Burlington, Bapu Bhawan Chauraha, Vidhan Sabha and Hazratganj circle. It will then proceed from Mayfair cinema hall towards Hindi Sansthan. While earlier it used to go straight from Hindi Sansthan to KD Singh Babu Stadium, the route has changed this year."
 Adding further, Mishra says, "From Hindi Sansthan, the parade will take a left turn towards Tulsi theatre and will finally conclude at KD Singh Babu Stadium. Metro authorities have assured us that the removal of the barricading on the route of the parade will be done and will also widen the road. The practice of the Republic Day parade took place yesterday smoothly and now will also be conducted on January 22 and January 24."
 
