THRISSUR: The stage is set for the   state conference, which will begin here on Thursday, with the marches carrying the flagpole and torches from the memorials of the party martyrs from southern Kerala reaching the district border at Koratty on Tuesday evening.

 The party district secretary KRadhakrishnan, central committee member A   and conference publicity committee convener U P Joseph were among those who received the marches at Koratty.
 
 
 The marches from north Kerala will start from Cheruthuruthi on Wednesday morning and the third set of marches from   will start from Vaniampara around the same time.
 
 All these marches will converge at the Thekkinkadu Maidan on Wednesday evening. Subsequently, the conference flag will be hoisted there by the party state secretariat member Baby John. The public meeting on the concluding day of the conference on February 25 will be held at the Maidan.
 
 Veteran party leader   will hoist the flag for the delegates’ meet of the conference at the Regional Theatre on Thursday morning. CPM national secretary   will inaugurate the conference, subsequently.
 
 The entire city and surrounding areas have practically become a ‘red fortress’ with the display of campaign materials of diverse nature.
 
 Harvesting of the vegetables cultivated for preparing food for the conference delegates was inaugurated by the party central committee member E P   at Thrikkumarakudam on the outskirts of the city on Tuesday. Vijayaraghavan inaugurated the harvesting of the fish raised for the food for conference delegates. Paddy has also been cultivated by the party activists for the meet.
 
 Jayarajan defends invitation to Mani: The CPM central committee member, E P Jayarajan on Tuesday defended the party’s decision to invite KC(M) chief K M   for the seminar organized as part of the state conference of the party. Replying to questions from the media, Jayarajan said Mani had a mass support base and was one of the seasoned leaders of the state, having deep insights into the agrarian issues of Kerala. Asked about the CPI’s criticisms against possible entry of Mani into the LDF, Jayarajan said CPM’s stance on inviting Mani to LDF would be decided by the party, and not by others. Vijayaraghavan said the CPM’s objective was to continuously broaden the mass base of the LDF.
 
