HYDERABAD: Osmansagar and  , two major   sources for twin cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad, are now infested with algal growth. The presence of unwanted vegetation indicates that the drinking water sources are gradually losing their pristine environment.

 
 A thick blanket of weeds and algae has formed in the shores of the lakes as water has been impounded for long. Lack of outflow has led to stagnation of water in the lakes resulting in algal bloom.
  
  
 City doctors point out algal bloom and growth of unwanted vegetation in water bodies could cause health issues if people drink it. Even contact with polluted water may cause skin ailments.
 
 Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWSSB), which controls the lakes, has not released water downstream in the last 18 months. The board has taken up regular maintenance on the crest gates.
 
 Since their construction about 90 years ago, Osmansagar and Himayatsagar reservoirs have been catering to the needs to lakhs of people. Their prominence took a back seat after the HMWSSB took up Krishna and Godavari projects. The “lifeline reservoirs’ have an assured supply of 45 million gallons of water per day (MGD). Water from the reservoirs was utilised till 2016.
 
 Krishna and Godavari water is now supplied to areas that once got supplies from Osmansagar and Himayatsagar. “We have stored the water in the lakes for future needs, particularly in cases of emergency. If the supplies from Godavari and Krishna sources go dry, we will bank on Osmansagar and Himayatsagar lakes to meet the demand,” a senior official of the water board said.
 
 The reservoirs have been losing water due to evaporation. It increases during summer. About one MGD of water is lost in evaporation.
 
 Experts point out that water in lakes should be aerated and in constant circulation. Any stagnation of water for long periods would result in the growth of unwanted vegetation. It would also cause foul smell. The quality of the water is affected. Though the water board takes up purification of water before it is pumped into taps, it is desirable that the water quality is maintained at its highest pristine levels in major water bodies like Osmansagar and Himayatsagar.
 
 Research studies have revealed that the water quality in the two lakes has been deteriorating over the years. There should be regular analysis of water samples collected from the lake for physical, biological and chemical contaminations, if any. This will ensure that the two major lakes survive for long.
 
 
 
