NEW DELHI: Taking note of the “uncertain future” in the film industry, a Delhi court has awarded Rs 2.7   maintenance to a woman, who   her career in   to be a housewife in 2000. Additional Sessions Judge A K Kuhar said the woman’s qualification could only be utilised in the film industry, which offers a very “uncertain career” and works on the “principle of out of sight, out of mind”.

 “To regain her foothold in the film industry will not be an easy task, considering the mental state she must be having after her marriage broke,” the court observed.
 
 The order came on the woman’s appeal seeking enhancement of maintenance in a domestic violence case against her husband and raised the amount from Rs 1.7 lakh to Rs 2.7 lakh per month.
 
 The court observed that she was a filmmaker, who had studied in the US and it was not easy for her to revive her career as she remained away from her profession for 17 years. “Appellant has done a course in film making from the United States. She got married with the respondent (husband) in the year 2000 and has not been working since,” it noted.
 
 The court also observed that a woman should not be dependent on a man. Referring to gender equality in society and expectations, it said that a woman should not be dependent on a man for her survival and sustenance, particularly when she has “capacity” to make her own living.
 
 “At the same time, one has to consider the fact that many a times even a working women is so devastated when her marriage crumbles that it take considerable time for her to gather the strength to bear the reality,” the court said.
 
 It was observed that the husband maintained a high standard of living and the Rs 1 lakh awarded to the woman by the magisterial court was not sufficient. The court also noted that the trial court had awarded Rs 70,000 for alternate accommodation to her.
 
 “It is to be noted that appellant has been living with her husband in New Friends Colony, which obviously is a class one colony inhabited by affluent people,” it said.
 
 The woman had challenged a 2015 order of the trial court awarding her Rs 1.7 lakh per month as interim maintenance including accommodation expenses. She alleged that her husband and mother-in-law inflicted extreme torture and sought maintenance and accommodation allowance claiming her husband’s annual income was over Rs 60 lakh. The husband, however, claimed innocence and contended that the woman was qualified and had been working in film industry and was competent to earn her own livelihood.
 
 
