AHMEDABAD: Nearly two years after the   incident, the four victims of the atrocity have decided to reach out to atrocity victims in Gujarat and get them to convert to Buddhism and renounce Hinduism, before they formally become Buddhist themselves.

 Vashram Sarvaiya, one of the victims of Una flogging, said that not only will they convert to Buddhism they will ask all other victims of atrocities, including the relatives of the 2012 Thangadh killings, to renounce Hinduism.
 
 
 Vashram, who with his brothers Ramesh, Ashok and Bechar, were flogged and paraded half naked by gau rakshaks in July 2016. This incident had shaken the conscience of country and spawned a dalit movement in Gujarat. The Sarvaiyas had had initially decided to convert to Buddhism on April 14, the birth anniversary of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, but later chose to hold a mass conversion event on May 29, Buddha Purnima, the festival that marks Gautam Buddha’s birth, enlightenment and death.
 
 “We decided to renounce Hinduism two months ago and thought to hold a mass conversion ceremony on April 14. We found there are various programmes of remembrance of Babasaheb and conversion scheduled for the same day. So we decided to convert to Buddhism on Buddha Purnima, as Lord Buddha had also attained nirvana (enlightenment) on the same day,” said Vashram.
 
 Vashram added, “We were not the only victims of caste-based atrocities, so we will try to convince other community members to convert to Buddhism by propagating the ideas of Abhidhamma (Buddhist doctrine), so they too can get a new life where they will not be harassed on the basis of caste.”
 
 Valji Rathod, the father of one of the three youths killed in Thangadh town of in Surendranagar in September 2012, said, “We are ready to forsake Hinduism and embrace Buddhism as the killers of our children were also Hindu. The killers must not have considered us Hindus and that’s why they killed our kids. This is why we cannot live in this religion,” said Rathod. City-based sociologist Ghanshyam Shah said, “Dalits who suffer atrocities perceive embracing Buddhism as a solution to rid themselves of the humiliation of being so called ‘low-castes’. Besides, Gujarat has a large number of Buddhists who are relatively better off than their community members in the Hindu religion. Conversion will also give a strong message against Hinduism and caste-based discrimination.”
 
