While films like ' ' and ' ' have done their bit to popularize wrestling and wrestlers from Haryana, female champions from the state and their achievements over the past few years have also played an important part to make female wrestling more mainstream in the traditionally conservative state.  , who hails from   and is the most successful female wrestler India has produced, says that when it comes to women's wrestling, she has noticed a world of change in   in the recent years. "Earlier, people – even my extended family – would say things like this is a guys' sport, why are you going for it? Why do you want to wear shorts and wrestle? All that has reduced. I was among the four-five girls in my academy when I trained as a kid. Now, the same place has at least 25-30 girls training to be wrestlers. That has been possible only because now, parents in Haryana support girls who want to be wrestlers," says Sakshi.

  
  
 
 The   says that parents even approach her for guidance and tips. She says, "Now, parents come up to me and ask that if their girl wins an international medal, what job she can secure or if she qualifies for the Olympics, what will be her work prospects. People are thinking like that now, which is a huge change. Pehle ladki ki bas shaadi ki chinta hoti thi. Parents in Haryana see boxing as a career for their girls." Sakshi says this change is a result of a combination of factors, which includes success of girls from the state and also government policies. "Of course, ladkiyon ke paas role models hain ab, joh hamare paas nahi thay. Haryana ki ladkiyan achha kar rahin hain wrestling mein. But the government is also doing its part. My village is getting a wrestling academy sponsored by the government. All Haryana girls need is just the basic infrastructure. They are tough enough to fight their way to the top after that," she says.
 
  Sakshi's husband  , who is also from Rohtak and an internationally successful wrestler, adds, "Haryana ki mitti mein jaan hai. If you see, wrestling, boxing, kabaddi – all these strength-based sports have a lot of athletes coming in from Haryana. That's because the lifestyle in the villages of Haryana is tough, which makes us mentally and physically tougher. On top of that, we eat healthy and pure stuff here, be it milk or ghee. All that helps."
 
 
  
 
