Bhopal: How happy or sad are the people in Madhya Pradesh? Shivraj Singh Chouhan government would know about the happiness quotient in the state, most likely before the state goes for the assembly general elections.

 However, knowing the issue and targeting it to make positive changes in citizens’ lives may take years. Even to develop the approximate happiness index would require about six years,  .
 
 In May last year, the state government signed an MoU with IIT-Kharagpur for development of happiness index to measure well-being of people of the state. On a pilot basis, the IIT-Kharagpur in past few months surveyed 900 people in different regions of state to find out what makes them happy.
 
 The points underlined by the people surveyed, which makes them happy, plus the general factors taken into account in such surveys in other parts of the world, will now be used as the basis to survey around 20,000 people in all 51 districts.
 
 The two-day international think fest to finalise parameters for calculating the happiness of people in MP ended in city on Friday. Experts pointed making a happiness index for its true objective takes years.
 
 Saamdu Chetri, also known as Bhutan's happiness guru said, index has been created, but its heads should be acceptable to everyone. The data collected is raw and efforts should be on how it can be modified for better. Once the questionnaire is finalised, the survey must be piloted again. The interview of 900 people done so far is in Hindi. It needs to be translated verbatim in English. Thereafter, 20,000 people would be interviewed on how happy they are. The process must be repeated again after two to three years to find out what has changed after government’s intervention. It generally takes around six years’ time, he added.
 
 Chetri is faculty with IIT Kharagpur, but not associated with the team making happiness index of MP. He was invited by the government as an expert on the subject.
 
 Meanwhile, the MP government officials said the format and questions to be asked for happiness index has been almost finalised. District wise the teams would be constituted that would start data collection. The work is expected to be completed in three months.
 
 Another expert, Raj Raghunathan, a professor at The University of Texas explained happiness. He said happiness could be defined in different ways. It could be in the form of pleasure, positive emotions, sacrifice also makes people happy. First is measuring happiness, but most important part of survey is the determinants of happiness. First draft of final survey is almost done. Initially the questions proposed for happiness index were around 170 that have been brought down to 150, he added.
 
 TOI has the copy of draft report. People will be surveyed on subjects, including personal well-being, satisfaction with life scale, scale of positive and negative emotions, relationships, environment, health governance and administration, education, safety and security, income, infrastructure, transportation, social inclusivity, social and cultural life.
 
 MAPPING YOUR HAPPINESS
 
 How happy you are with quality of greenery around you, including air, noise level, cleanliness?
 
 How happy are you with available health services- Janani Suraksha Yojana, Deen Dayal Antyodaya Yojana, Deen Dayal Mobile Health Clinic, emergency services- 108?
 
 Governance and administration- Behaviour and actions of government employees, police, various developmental schemes of government and actions taken against corruption?
 
 Education- quality of school and affordability, ease of availing government educational schemes?
 
 Government procedures of availing various schemes?
 
 How safe do you feel about available government schemes, including pension, crop, health insurance, food security, Ladli Lakshmi Yojana?
 
 Income- existing government employment schemes?
 
 
