VELLORE: Two men, who were arrested for vandalising the bust of   E V Ramasamy in   town on Tuesday, were not under the influence of alcohol and they had damaged the bust deliberately with a hammer, said investigation officer S Ulaganathan on Wednesday.

 The accused are R Muthuraman, 42, who was   Tirupattur town general secretary, and his nephew Francis alias Silambarasan, 28, who was said to be Tirupattur town deputy secretary of the CPI.
 
 “They were not under the influence of alcohol when they committed the crime. They deliberately acted and damaged the bust of Periyar using a hammer. The nose and the left side of the forehead on the statue were damaged,” the inspector told TOI.
 
 Police have invoked Sections 294 (b) (utters obscene words), 153 (A) (promoting enmity among different groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) and 506 (2) (criminal intimidation) of the IPC read with Section 4 (mischief causing damage to public property by fire or explosive substance) of the Tamil Nadu Public Property (Prevention of Damage and Loss) Act against Muthuraman and Francis.
 
 They were remanded in judicial custody and lodged in the Vellore Central Prison for Men, said Ulaganathan.
 
 “Muthuraman and Francis reached the spot on a two-wheeler. While Muthuraman sat on the bike, Francis climbed on the pedestal and damaged the bust. The incident took place around 8.30pm on Tuesday,” said M Elangovan, Tirupattur district deputy secretary of Dravida Kazhagam (DK), quoting eyewitnesses.
 
 Upon information, DK men reached the spot, caught the duo and handed them over to police.
 
 Meanwhile, the Vellore district secretary of CPI, A C Samykannu, said Francis was not a member of the party. “Francis had enrolled as a member of the party four years ago. But we did not renew his membership after knowing that he was a drunkard and caused nuisance in the area. Our party has nothing to do with him,” said Samykannu.
 
 He added that they respect the ideology of Periyar and condemned the action of the people who had vandalised the bust, which was unveiled by former Prime Minister V P Singh in December in 1992.
 
 Also, the BJP’s Tamil Nadu unit on Wednesday sacked R Muthuraman for allegedly vandalising the statue of Periyar.
 
 “R Muthuraman is being   from the party,” BJP state chief Tamilisai Soundararajan said in a statement.
 
 Meanwhile, DMK and VCK members burnt the effigies of BJP national secretary H   in Vellore district to condemn his social media post against Periyar. Cadres of both parties burnt the effigy of Raja at 37 places in Vellore district and four places in Tiruvannamalai district
 
 They demanded stern action against him for inciting violence. 
 
 Police personnel were deployed at 19 places in Vellore district and 10 places in Tiruvannamalai district to protect Periyar’s statues and busts. “Two police personnel have been deployed for each statue. The security cover will continue until the situation calms down,” said a police officer in Vellore district.
 
 
