NEW DELHI: “Is Shambhu a good person or a bad person?” the court asked. “He is a bad person,” replied the child. This statement, along with all other evidence, has led a special court to convict a man accused of sodomising his four-year-old neighbour and award him a  . Given the nature of the crime, the court showed no leniency and hoped for the child’s scars to get “clouded”, if not “erased”. 

 Special court judge  , who deals with Protection of Children against Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, lauded the Delhi Police for a “prompt investigation” and the examination of medical evidence that followed. “The prompt reporting of the matter to the police brought about the prompt investigation, the arrest of the accused, medical examination of the survivor and the accused, and taking of their samples,” the special court judge observed.
 
 The survivor, a four-year-old male child, lived in the same neighbourhood as convict Shambhu  . On January 27, 2016, the survivor was found bleeding from his anus by her mother, who immediately raised an alarm, gathering a huge crowd.
 
 Yadav was apprehended and handed over to the police. The child nodded when asked if he had been sexually abused by the convict. The child’s injuries were corroborated by the medical expert’s opinion stating a “fresh anal tear” and “anal spasm” suggestive of anal penetration. Even the specimen of the semen stains, collected from the crime scene, matched with that found on the minor’s body. 
 
 Yadav, who was slapped with a fine of Rs 30,000, contested the case saying he had loaned money to the child’s uncle, but instead of returning his money, they framed him.
 
 The court called the defense’s claim a “sham” when compared to an “unflinching testimony” of the survivor and his mother. “This painful incident has caused him not just physical injuries, but mental and emotional injuries too, which are likely to cause him pain and suffering for unending years in the future,” the judge noted. “The minor’s free-wheeling playful attitude has been robbed by the convict and restoring the child’s own ‘self’ is impossible.”
 
 The life-term imprisonment was awarded under Section VI (aggravated penetrative assault) of the POCSO Act. While awarding Rs 4 lakh fine on Yadav as compensation, Maini observed, “Monetary compensation can only be an attempt to provide the child with material comforts and a source for a better academic development of the child, in the hope that the scars on his soul may get erased or at least clouded.”
 
 
