CHANDIGARH: Embarrassed by controversial Mehatpur station house officer (SHO) inspector Parminder Singh Bajwa’s disparaging remarks against the   chief minister besides registration of an FIR against Congress’s Shahpur byelection candidate Hardev Singh   Sherowalia for illegal mining, the state government on Thursday took up the case of his immediate transfer with the Election Commission of India.

 Sources said the matter has been taken up also at the level of chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh. It is learnt the state government has even suggested that it has no problem even if the ECI wants to post any police officer as   even from outside the state for the conduct of fair elections.
 
 Though the police department has sent its report to the state electoral officer, sources in the police department confirmed that till date no formal inquiry had been initiated to ascertain as to how after being transferred from the post of Shahkot SHO, Bajwa was appointed as Mehatpur SHO and his conduct amounting to the alleged moral turpitude.
 
 The chief minister also heads the home department and had on April 11 warned the police top brass of sacking any officer indulging in indiscipline and in mudslinging each other in the court or before the media. Amarinder had also asked the police officers to refrain from bringing bad name to the uniformed force.
 
 Speaking to the TOI, Punjab’s chief electoral officer (CEO) S Karuna Raju said, “I have got information from all the quarters, including the deputy commissioner and the police. I am sending a detailed report to the ECI today and after that they will issue the directions.”
 
 Bajwa had taken the state   government by surprise after he had registered a case on May 4 against Congress’s Shahkot assembly bypoll candidate Laddi for theft and illegal mining. Later on May 7, the SHO had addressed media persons at a private hotel stating that he has done his duty by registering the FIR and assured he would arrest the ‘culprit’ once he rejoins the duty.
 
 He had also raised questions on initiation of a departmental inquiry against him. Making comments about the chief minister’s personal life, Bajwa had said many Congress and SAD leaders are themselves allegedly involved in moral turpitude but they preach morality to others.
 
 Asked whether the Punjab police can initiate any departmental inquiry against the Mehatpur SHO for going against the conduct rules by addressing a press conference, the chief electoral officer replied, “Right now we have to follow code of conduct, representation of people Act and the guidelines of the Election Commission of India.”
 
 
