AHMEDABAD: Even though driving on highways in   is a breeze, road trips often turn cumbersome for travellers in absence of clean and hygienic sanitation facilities. At a time when Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s brainchild Swachh Bharat Mission is gaining traction under the Union ministry of urban development, the  , (GCCI), has undertaken an initiative to develop clean sanitation facilities on state and national highways in Gujarat. Officials of   said talks are on with petrol pump owners and state tourism department to implement the project jointly.

 Shailesh Patwari, president, GCCI, said, “There is a dire need to build clean sanitation facilities on the highways. With an influx of foreign tourists as well as international business delegates, poor sanitation facilities reflects badly upon the state. Therefore, the idea is to develop washroom facilities at every 60-70km stretch on the highway.”
 
 A pilot project of constructing and/ or remodelling existing sanitation facilities will be initiated by April this year, on the highway stretches from Ahmedabad to popular tourist destinations   and   respectively, said GCCI sources. State tourism department officials also confirmed they have received the proposal and are actively considering it. A decision will be taken shortly, said a source in the state tourism department.
 
 “Initial talks are going on with the government and petrol-pump owners. We also plan to rope in oil corporations for the initiative and will approach them soon. The project will be implemented on public-private partnership (PPP) model. Maintaining existing facilities is usually a challenge and a plan needs to be chalked out to maintain these facilities cleanly,” Patwari further added.
 
 Talking about the issue, Arvind Thakkar, president,  , said, “Most petrol pumps already have sanitation facilities however, maintaining them is an issue. Discussions are under way and we will remodel existing facilities to make them better. We will require necessary support to hygienically maintain these facilities.”
 
 Top sources in GCCI said that companies can also chip in for the project from their corpus of corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds.
 
 
