RANCHI/DALTONGANJ: Three infants died on Sunday while six others fell critically ill, a day after they were administered vaccines under a routine immunization programme being run by district health officers in Loinga village of Palamu district. 

 Chief minister   declared a compensation of Rs 1 lakh for the next of kin of the deceased and ordered a probe.
 
 
  
 
 Nine infants from the village were given a booster dose for  ,   and   for diphtheria, whooping cough and tetanus on Saturday. Within a few hours, all of them developed mild fever followed by vomiting and bouts of diarrhoea, their parents alleged.
 
 
  
 
 Three of the infants — Ujjwal Kumar (17-month-old), Aryan Kumar (18-month-old) and Sanju Kumari (21-month-old) — died early Sunday. Aryan’s grandfather Udit Bhuiyan said, “My grandson caught fever and started vomiting soon after his  . He died at 4am on Sunday.”
 
 The other six infants were rushed to the district hospital in  . Four out of them were discharged later in the evening, while the other two children are out of danger now, doctors said.
 
 As the news of the deaths spread, officers from the Palamu district administration and a team of doctors led by Daltonganj civil surgeon reached the village. The group had to be rescued by police after it was met with angry villagers.
 
 Daltonganj civil surgeon Dr V K Singh said, “The health workers carry drugs to counter the side-effects of vaccines, and administer them if needed. In this case, however, the repercussions started after several hours. A detailed examination will be conducted to ascertain if the vials storing the vaccines were toxic or if the medicine had expired.”
 
 Alarmed by the deaths, the principal secretary of the Ranchi health directorate, Nidhi Khare, sent a team of doctors and drug experts to Loinga. The team was headed by director in-chief of state health services Dr Sumant Mishra. “I spoke to the Palamu civil surgeon and took stock of the situation. The guilty will not be spared. A special team will investigate the matter and submit its report within a week. The deputy commissioner of Palamu will assist us the probe,” Khare said.
 
 Patan block development officer Somnath Banerjee said the used vials and the unused ones from Saturday’s vaccination drive in Loinga village were confiscated. “All the children have shown the same symptoms. The vials will be handed over to the team of experts from the health directorate,” he added.
 
 
