HUBBALLI: Siddharoodha Mutt, which draws followers from across religions, on Thursday reverberated with cries of ‘Modi-Modi’ and ‘BJP ki jai’, instead of the usual ‘Om namah shivaya’, leaving hundreds of devotees bewildered.

 
 Soon after   entered the mutt premises, hundreds of   workers followed him. The slogan shouting began when Shah went to the samadhi mandir of Sri Siddharoodha Swami. Later, when he was felicitated by the mutt trustees, slogans of ‘BJP ki jai’ rent the air at the kailas mantap, where devotees meditate after performing poojas at the samadhi temple of both Sri Siddharoodha and Gurunathroodh Swamiji.
 
 Local leaders, including former CM Jagadish Shettar, MP Pralhad Joshi, BJP state unit president   and others were present, but no one tried to stop the workers from creating so much noise and this irked the devotees. “For the first time, instead of ‘Om namah shivay, I am hearing an individual’s name being chanted, that too someone from a political party,” said Siddramappa of Garag village in   taluk, who had come for a state-level bhajan competition held on the mutt premises.
 
 Siddharoodha Mutt trust committee president D D Malagi said chanting of ‘Om namah shivay’ is a regular practice at the mutt, but slogan-shouting in favour of a political party or an individual isn’t good.
 
 During his recent visit to  , AICC president   had skipped visiting this mutt.
 
 Earlier, Shah was welcomed by women with purna kumbh. Later, the BJP national president, along with Yeddyurappa, Shettar, Joshi, B L Santosh , organising secretary of state BJP, and MLA Arvind Bellad performed aarati at the samadhi. Shah’s visit was scheduled for 9.40am, but he arrived only at 10.45am and stayed at the mutt for 15 minutes.
 
 Naming of Hubballi airport
 
 The mutt’s trust committee members urged Shah to name Hubballi airport Sri Siddharoodha Swamiji Hubballi International Airport. They also submitted a memorandum to Shah, urging him to pressure the Centre to name the airport after the seer. “We also submitted a memorandum seeking funds worth Rs 20 lakh to construct toilets and bathrooms under Swachh Bharat Mission and to build a prasada nilaya,” said mutt president D D Malagi.
 
 Request for party ticket
 
  of Bagalkot submitted a petition to BJP national president Amit Shah, requesting a party ticket from Bilagi constituency. “I submitted a complete profile of my social works and also details of the visits to 130 villages in Bilagi constituency. I hope to get a chance in the second list,” he added.
 
