NEW DELHI:   on Friday accused   of complicity in the PNB scam, saying that Allahabad Bank was pressured to give loan to Mehul Choksi just a day after the Congress president inaugurated a jewellery show of  , the main accused in the fraud case, at the capital's Imperial Hotel.

 
 "The loan was sanctioned to Choksi's   Gems despite dissent note of Dinesh Dubey, one of the independent directors of Allahabad Bank," HRD minister   said on Friday.
 
 Choksi, business partner and maternal uncle of Nirav Modi, is an accused in the bank fraud case.
 
 Dubey's letters to the RBI governor and the Union finance secretary show that the public sector bank sanctioned Rs 50 crore as loan to Gitanjali Gems despite his objections. In his letters, Dubey accused senior Allahabad Bank officials of ignoring his repeated objections to sanctioning loan to Gitanjali Gems.
 
 Dubey was terminated by the UPA government in February 2014. "Rahul Gandhi should explain under whose pressure the loan amount was sanctioned or was it a mere coincidence that the loan was sanctioned a day after Rahul Gandhi graced the launch of Nirav Modi show, that too when a senior bank functionary had raised repeated objections," said Javadekar.
 
 Javadekar said instead of acting on Dubey's note, the then finance secretary asked him to resign. "Rahul Gandhi and Congress should come clean on this fraud and make it clear what is the relationship between its chief 's visit to the exhibition and sanctioning of the loan," he added.
 
 "A meeting of board of Allahabad Bank was held on 14th September, 2013 at Hotel Radisson, New Delhi. Regarding agenda No 4/6 pertaining to Ms Gitanjali Gems for sanction of Rs 1500 crore + Rs 50 cr, I have not given my consent But they ignored my dissent note and sanctioned the loan," Dubey wrote to the RBI governor and finance secretary on September 16, 2013.
 
 Dubey again wrote to the RBI governor and finance secretary that the next board meeting had no mention of his dissent note even as minutes of the last meeting were there for discussion. "In the board meeting at Kolkata, minutes of the last meeting were produced but there was no mention of my dissent. I again opposed and asked the RBI nominee director Mr Udgatha whether it is right to which he replied that in rare cases it happens, it doesn't matter. But I opposed release of the fund without board approval."
 
 Ignoring Dubey's objections, Allahabad Bank continued sanctioning loans despite the fact that the matter had been brought to the notice of RBI and the government. As per another letter of Dubey, the Allahabad Bank board had listed Gitanjali Jewellers-related matter in its meeting in Kolkata on November 22, 2013. "Gitanjali agenda had already appeared in the past meetings more than four times and every time I expressed my dissent, but again it was brought in the agenda for approval. The CMD told me to give my consent but I refused. One shareholder director became angry and the other bank nominee director told me that 'ghar ki baat ghar me hi rahne dete'," Dubey had alleged.
 
