JAIPUR: The   on Monday issued notices to the government and the accused in the murder of a Dalit woman in Karauli.

 The single bench of Justice B L Sharma ordered the government to file reply within two weeks as the relatives of the woman had sought an SOG or SIT probe into the murder. The petitioner alleged that the local police in order to save the accused had not invoked the provisions of SC & ST Prevention of Atrocities Act in the FIR though the deceased was a Dalit. Satish, counsel for the petitioner Vijendra, son of the deceased in the FIR registered at   said, Vijendra is a labourer and on that fateful day on September 12 last year he did not go to work and was at home with his wife Sonia and mother Tejo Bai.
 
 Around 12 pm, Beekesh Gurjar, daughter   of the village, came calling his mother. She asked Tejo Bai to come to her house to collect wheat so she went along with Beekesh. 
 
 But Tejo Bai did not return home that night. When asked about her whereabouts, Beekash and her family members feigned ignorance saying that she had left their home in the evening itself.
 
 Next day, the news spread in the village that Beekesh had committed suicide by setting herself ablaze. The half-burnt body of Beekesh was taken to her in-laws’ village by the relatives and the last rites were performed.
 
 In the meanwhile, Vijendra continued his search for his mother and filed a missing report in the police station on September 16, which initially the police refused to register.
 
 18 days after the incident on September 26, the local police registered a missing report.
 
 Around the same time, news spread that Beekesh who had committed ‘suicide’ was alive and had eloped with a man. 
 
 Disappearance of the Dalit woman was later unravelled as a gruesome premediated murder. Accused Beekesh did not want to go to her husband’s home and told her parents about this. Her family members took huge money from some Fauzi Gurjar and sent Beekesh with him as per Naata. 
 
 When the family of Beekesh’s husband came to know of this they came to Sakulpura village and warned of dire consequences if she was not sent back to her husband’s home.
 
 Thereafter, the accused respondents conspired to kill the Dalit woman and showed it as Beekesh suicide.
 
 
