KOCHI: Opting for out-of-court settlement in traffic accident cases can reduce the time for receiving compensation by up to 75%, say legal experts. The claim for compensation can be settled even after filing a case for compensation before the motor accident claims tribunal ( ) or after filing an appeal at the high court seeking enhancement of the compensation ordered by the tribunal, lawyers said.

 “It takes around 2-3 years for a tribunal to award compensation. This is after the recent introduction of additional tribunals. MACT cases are also now being handed over to district courts. Around 10 such cases come up before district courts in a day and one or two of them gets disposed daily. Considering all these changes, at present it takes around two to three years to award a compensation. If there is no settlement and the case reaches the high court, it may take another two to three years. The first chance for out-ofcourt settlement comes up at the MACT itself. Once the insurance company agrees to accept the liability, as the policy is valid and no policy conditions have been violated, settlement can be done at MACT itself. This process can be completed in just six months,” said advocate M Jacob  , who represents a major public-sector insurance company at the high court.
 
 An option for settling the case is given in all cases by tribunals as soon as the insurance company admits to the policy. If both parties are willing, their lawyers should take steps to use the opportunity, advocate Murickan said.
 
 
 Opting for settlement would enable the clients to get their compensation in a speedy manner. However, the drawback is that only 4.5% of interest is allowed while settling a case. “Opting for settlement gives an opportunity for the claimant to come face-to-face with the insurance company and talk things out. If the settlement proposed by the company is not viable, sometimes the court interferes and pushes for a settlement by making adjustments. If the award passed by a judge is low, settlement gives the claimants an opportunity to get a higher amount. Lawyers get in touch with the clients and they agree to the settlement only if the client allows to proceed,” said advocate   P, who represents accident victims at the high court.
 
 
 After filing appeals before the high court for enhancing the compensation awarded by tribunals, the claimants get another opportunity to settle. Until now, the high court used to refer cases of those willing to settle to specially-conducted adalats headed by former high court judges. For the past few months, the high court has been getting directly involved by posting cases for settlement at the court itself and getting the settlement recorded as part of the judgment.
 
 
 According to advocate Murickan, the new move by the high court has brought down the pending appeals over compensations awarded by the MACTs across the state. “Only 10% of the cases posted for settlement before the adalats used to be actually settled. But the judgments passed by justice P D Rajan in the past few months has brought the number of settlements to around 30%,” he said.
 
 
 Insurance companies are also favourable to out-of-court settlements as it allows them to save on interest money, said lawyers. When the court passes an award for compensation, the insurance company has to pay interest from the date of raising of the claim whereas interest needs to be paid only from the date of settlement in cases of settlement, points out advocate Murickan. “If the court passes an award in a case after four years, the company has to pay interest for the entire period. Usually, interest of 9% is ordered by the court. Therefore, insurance companies favour settlement,” he said.
 
