WASINGTON: The chorus of women from President Trump’s past is getting louder.

 Accusations about Trump’s past sexual exploits bubbled up on three fronts on Tuesday, with two women pressing court cases and a porn actress publicly needling the president.   has so far weathered the rising #Me-Too movement, but the latest developments served as a fresh reminder about the shadow thrown by questions about the thrice-married businessman’s past. He has consistently denied accusations from all three women. He has previously called his accusers “liars” and has deemed such reports “made up stuff.”
 
 
 In the case of the Playboy model, Karen   filed suit Tuesday in Los Angeles county superior court against American Media Inc. It had paid her $150,000 during the 2016 presidential election. The lawsuit alleges that McDougal was paid for the rights to her story of an affair, but the story never ran. It also alleges that Trump’s attorney, Michael Cohen, was secretly involved in her discussions with American Media.
 
 McDougal’s lawsuit was filed on the same day a New York judge sided with Summer Zervos, a 2006 ‘Apprentice’ contestant. She sued Trump after he dismissed as “fabricated” and “made-up” her claims of misconduct at a hotel in California, in 2007. Her lawsuit sought an apology and at least $2,914. In saying the suit can go forward, Judge Jennifer Schecter wrote, “No one is above the law.” Trump’s lawyers had argued the Constitution immunised him from being sued in state court while he’s president and had said the case should at least be delayed until he’s out of office.
 
 Also on Tuesday porn star Stormy Daniels and her lawyer continued their media campaign against Trump as she seeks to invalidate a nondisclosure agreement she signed days before the 2016 presidential election so she can discuss their relationship.
 
 An attorney for Daniels tweeted what he described as a 2011 photo of Daniels taking a lie detector test during which she addressed her relationship with Trump. 
 
