KOCHI: E   was 19 when he was diagnosed with bone cancer. After 15 years of treatment, he was confined to a wheelchair and his family was in debt. His four children were sent to an orphanage and his wife left him. He lost the will to live.

 
 Then, Zubair was referred to the newly-initiated pain and palliative care society (PPCS) at   in 1994. “Palliative care reduced my pain and volunteers identified my financial and emotional woes. My children live with me and I still go to work after consuming 1,050mg morphine (prescribed for pain management) each day,” said Zubair, now 58. He runs a coffee shop in the medical college campus that was started in 1994 with support of PPCS.
 
 Zubair’s story introduces us to the ideal world of palliative care, where terminally-ill patients and their family are given physical, psychosocial or spiritual support as envisioned by   (WHO). But, not everyone is as ‘fortunate’ as Zubair. Something as basic as pain management reaches too few across the country. This is happening though there are national and state policies that make palliative care an integral part of treatment, especially cancer.
 
 
 WHO estimates that each year 40 million people in the world need palliative care and only 14% receive it. In India, of the 56 lakh people in need of palliative care, hardly 3 lakh get it. In contrast, of the estimated 1.25 lakh people in need of palliative care in  , 80-85% receive it as 1,450 of the 1,600 palliative care centres in India are in Kerala.
 
 
 In 2014, WHO passed a resolution that palliative care should be integrated with healthcare at primary, secondary and tertiary levels. A 2016 review showed that India failed to move forward in this direction. “Palliative care should go hand in hand with curative treatment and start at the time of diagnosis,” said Dr  , chairman of Pallium India, Thiruvananthapuram.
 
 
 The average per capita morphine consumption globally is 6.27mg, in India it is only 0.11mg and Kerala 1.56mg. This is partially due to the state’s failure in implementing the amended Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act that made access to opioid pain relief easier.
 
 
 In Kerala, though the amended NDPS Act has been implemented, the drugs control department recently issued a circular restricting the amount of morphine given to a patient to 50-100 tablets at a time.
 
 
 The result is that even at   in Thiruvananthapuram patients do not get their required quota of morphine. “If they need more than 100 tablets then they are referred to the nearby registered medical institution that has a licence to store morphine, which may not have the required quantity. So, they are forced to travel all the way back to RCC or suffer pain till the next appointment. Such decisions fail the very essence of palliative care,” said Dr  , faculty, department of pain clinic and palliative care, RCC.
 
