BHOPAL: The state government will install CCTV cameras near coaching centres to ensure safety of girls, said chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday. 

 The chief minister was addressing the students during his ‘Prerna Samvad’ at Government Model HS School. Chouhan also inaugurated the   — which evaluates schools based on 46 standards. 
 
 Before his Prerna Samvad, the chief minister inaugurated IT-based innovations for improving the quality of education. Exhibiting it, the chief minister transferred Rs 344 crore with ‘a single click’ in the bank accounts of 50 lakh students under the Mission ‘One Click Yojana’. As many as 30 varieties of scholarships for different departments are being distributed to the students through Shiksha portal of the education since 2010. 
 
 Earlier, this amount was paid to students through bills from the treasury. Now, the scholarships will be transferred directly to the bank accounts to students through Mission One Click. Rs 1,043 crore was disbursed to 1.6 crore students in the last two years. 
 
 During the interaction, the children too put forward their questions to the chief minister. Deepanshi Pandey, a Class 12 student raised the issue of girl safety. The chief minister replied saying that CCTVs will be installed and police patrolling has already been beefed up on the route where students move frequently. Sharing anecdotes from his student days, Chouhan gave the students tips for examination. Chouhan said that self-confidence is very important, as it gives energy and enhances knowledge which to identify our efficiency. 
 
 Giving an example of Swami Vivekanand, he said that each student possesses capability and talent. Chouhan told students that besides self-confidence, having a target is equally important. “One cannot get desired results without a target. Target should always be high. One must prepare a roadmap, which is a must to achieve the target. Following roadmap without any deviation is essential. Loss in concentration from studies is natural. Therefore, concentration is must along with consciousness”, the CM advised. 
 
 The chief minister also said that the children of the state have the talent to reach higher positions. The chief minister also inspected the smart classes and e-library set up at the Model school. Under  , schools will be upgraded academically based on various standards. To encourage those schools performing well, a Shala Siddhi award will be presented to them. After the dialogue with students, Chouhan distributed free cycles to students of Class 6 and 9.
 
 Those who could not attend the program at Model school, took part in the dialogue through Doordarshan and Akashwani. 
 
 
