MARGAO: From super profits to distress sales to a semblance of stability, the real estate economy in South Goa’s   belt has been a barometer of the fluid rural economy of region before, during and post the 2012 mining ban.

 When the iron ore trade was at its peak, the twin cities of Curchorem and Sanvordem witnessed rising levels of prosperity leading to a spurt in trade and commerce, given rise to a class of nouveau rich. The huge demand for residential spaces and investment needs led to an unprecedented surge in real estate prices. At the time, the mining belt was riding on a crest of newly acquired disposable money generated through the mining trade, much of which was through hawala channels. 
 
 “As mining is a labour-intensive industry, there was a huge influx of migrant population, which worked as mine labourers. Locals who owned lands or agricultural fields in the mining belt sold them off to builders and bought apartments, which they rented out at exorbitant costs for providing accommodation to migrant mining workers or truck drivers. The labourers wouldn’t mind paying high rents as their income was pretty handsome during the mining boom,” a business analyst from Curchorem told TOI. Sources pointed out that altogether around a lakh of migrant labourers were absorbed in the mining industry — directly or indirectly. The number reduced to less than 40,000 now after the ban was lifted in 2014, sources estimated. 
 
 Secondly, the mining trade generated a lot of black money. Industry watchers said that as real estate was the major source that could absorb a lot of black money, the increased demand for investment in real estate had led to a situation where there was an almost 500% rise in property prices during the period from 2004 to 2012.
 
 Business analysts TOI spoke to concurred that the mining windfall contributed to affluence in the mining belt and resulted in spiralling land prices, and was more evident in other parts of the state. In the tourism belt of North Goa, land prices rose by 10 times, while those in the mining belt went up fourfold.
 
 “For instance, in the Pontemol area of Curchorem, land prices have spiked from Rs 2,000 per sqm in 2005 to over Rs 12,000 now. The chequered pattern of the real estate trade is evident from the fact that an office space in a centrally located place in Curchorem that was priced at Rs 8,000 per sqm in 2004, came to be sold at a pre-construction rate of a whopping Rs 45,000 per sqm during 2011-12, months before the mining ban. Post the ban, real estate economy slumped, and the same space was available at Rs 25,000 per sqm. Still, there were no takers,” another industry watcher said. Now, a 100 sqm 2BHK flat in Curchorem which cost an upward of Rs 34 lakh in 2011-12, is being offered at less that Rs 25 lakh. Financial analysts are of the view that the reduced demand for apartments has led to lowering of prices by at least 20-25%. Distress sale of apartments were also witnessed in this part of the mining belt. 
 
 “Changing economic condition has given rise to a need to sell these shops and apartments that were primarily purchased to clean the black money. While this may not have been a positive development for the overall economy at the macro level, the “corrected prices”, though not yet affordable for the middle class, brought about the much needed sanity in the real estate market of South Goa’s mining belt. Builders stopped making super profits,” chartered accountant   told TOI.
 
 With the gradual revival of the mining industry since the last couple of years, players in the real estate industry were hoping for a turn in tide.
 
 “The real estate industry in the South Goa’s mining belt was just beginning to pick up in the last 2-3 years after a four-year slump. Though the GST issue did hit the industry initially, it later led to some degree of stability in the real estate market. Now with the impending shutdown of mining trade, there are fears that the industry may be heading towards a tailspin yet again,” Nasir Sharif of   told TOI.
 
 There’s yet another aspect to the real estate industry — the one-room rental premises. Sources said that many locals in the area had constructed one-room tenements adjoining their homes to let out to migrant labourers. Pointing out that the rentals worked out to quite a pretty amount, sources said that with the migrant occupants likely to return to their native places after the shutdown, the tenements will turn into empty spaces. 
 
 
