A bas-relief of a saint along with some ancient Tamil and   inscriptions ranging from 5th-11th Century AD have been discovered on the back side of the famous   hillock in Trichy. A team of researchers, headed by S Rajavelu of the department of maritime history and marine archaeology,  , found the four-line inscriptions in old Tamil and a one-line inscription in Grantha on the surface of the rock, and the bas-relief of a saint behind the Rock Fort hill on the northern side of the Tayumanavar temple. 

 The Rock Fort hillock is famous for its Ucchipillaiyar temple, Tayumanavar temple and rock-cut temples of Pallava king   and the Pandyas. The hill is famous for its epigraphical wealth with Tamil-Brahmi inscription of 2nd century AD and some label inscriptions of 5-6th century AD. However, the Archaeological Survey of India ( ) had documented these inscriptions. It was while studying the inscriptions discovered earlier that the team ran across the bas- relief of the saint and other inscriptions.
 
 "We noticed a few label inscriptions which are new to the historical world. One inscription is written in early Tamil characters of transition period and it refers to the name of the individuals," said Rajavelu. "It has four lines of writing and some letters are worn out. It reads 'nan aria', 'kuna nanpan', 'akaamo', and 'teeyan'. These are probably the names of individuals," he said.
 
 Apparently, the inscriptions are in ruins due to weathering. "Based on palaeographical grounds, this inscription could be datable to 5th-6th century AD. Another inscription near the four-line Tamil is written in Pallava Grantha and the Tamil characters of the Pallava king Mahendravarman period refer to the name "Sri Maniyaraiya" in single line," said Rajavelu, a former epigraphist with the ASI.
 
 The team found the bas-relief of a saint at least 50 metres above the inscriptions. "This bas-relief sculpture is in a dhyana posture. On the basis of the features of this figure, and the label inscription on the right top of this bas-relief sculpture which clearly indicate that he is a saint who performed dhyana in this place," he said. The saint is flanked by two devotees in standing posture. "On the right top of the bas relief, there is two-line label inscription is seen. It mentions the name of the saint as "siva panditan". Two letters are broken in the beginning of the inscription," said Rajavelu, adding that "the name "siva panditan" clearly suggests that he is a teacher of Siva sect."
 
 
