PUNE: Five friends, who left a party inebriated, wound up in a car accident that killed two of them in March this year. In February, a drunk motorist hit a traffic policeman fracturing his hand.

 These cases are among the many instances of drunk driving in Pune leading to road accidents. Statistics from the Pune police show that of the 1,507 accidents in Pune city in 2017, nearly 32 were due to drunk driving.
 
 
  
 
 In 2018, till April 2, nearly six of the 243 accidents since January this year were due to drunk driving. “Though the number of accidents due to drunk driving seems small, we frequently see many accidents caused by inebriated motorists or drivers. This number seems small because the cause being ‘drunk driving’ may not be mentioned in the FIR registered on the accident spot, and it is only later that the hospital report reveals that the injured or the victim was driving inebriated,”  , deputy commissioner of police (traffic), said.
 
 Experts said drunk driving is one of the major causes of accidents, right next to other causes like road rage, speeding and rash driving.
 
 In 2017, the Pune traffic police took action against 1,144 motorists for driving under the influence of alcohol on the intervening night of December 31 and January 1. They also took action against 600 motorists on December 29 and 30, 2017. This explains the 8,044 drunk driving cases in December 2017 alone, the highest in any month in a year.
 
 “Drunk driving cases are submitted to the court with a request to take these cases seriously. The accused are fined anywhere upward of Rs 2,000,” a police officer said.
 
  of   said drunk driving, speeding and rash driving are the three most serious traffic offences, with significant contribution to accidents.
 
 Patwardhan said most police action on traffic offences is aimed at jumping a red light, while no consistent action is seen on other offences, including drunk driving.
 
 Prashant Inamdar, convener of city-based non-governmental organization Pedestrians First, said authorities should insist on awareness posters about drinking and driving, while issuing liquor licences to bars. “While people are drinking, they should be able to see such posters. A message on drunk driving should play at regular intervals on the screens in bars and pubs,” he said.
 
