PUNE: Over the last three years, the Pune   (RTO) has seen a steady increase in the demand for   (IDP) due to greater awareness and more opportunities to drive abroad.

 An IDP serves as a proof that the person holds a valid driving licence of his/her own country. It allows the permit holder to drive in 150 countries across the globe.
 
 
 Numerous countries allow Indians — holding a valid   printed in English — to drive on their roads for a certain duration. However, some Middle Eastern countries, Russia and others require an IDP if an Indian traveller wishes to drive there. Moreover, certain car rental companies, even in countries that normally accept Indian driving licences — like South Africa — may ask to see the driver’s IDP before renting out a vehicle.
 
 The IDP is printed in various languages — including English, Spanish, French, Russian, Chinese, Arabic, Portuguese, Scandinavian languages and others — to enable drivers to use the document in non-English speaking countries as well. 
  
 
 “Awareness about the International Driving Permit (IDP) has increased in recent times. We have been seeing a steady year-on-year rise in the number of IDP applications coming to us. The IDP applicants are mainly students who are travelling overseas for higher education or modern tourists who wish to drive on an international holiday,” said  , the deputy regional transport officer for Pune.
 
 Raut said the permit can be easily obtained by any Indian national from the local RTO, provided he/she holds a valid Indian licence.
 
 “The applicant must furnish his/her valid Indian licence, passport and visa, wherever applicable, to the local transport office. Apart from these documents, the applicant is required to submit a medical certificate, four passport photographs and the relevant fees along with the application. Copies of all these documents must also be submitted. The applicant needs to personally visit the RTO for verification, following which the driving permit is issued,” said Raut explaining the process.
 
 He added the Indian licence of the applicant needs to have a local address for the issuance of an IDP. “A lot of people from across the country reside in Pune and use licences from their own cities or states to drive their vehicles here. If a person, whose licence is issued in Mumbai, comes to the Pune RTO for an IDP, he/she will be unable to obtain it. Their licence needs to have a Pune address if they want to obtain an IDP from the Pune RTO. Such applicants must ensure that a change of address in the Indian driving licence is undertaken before applying for an IDP in Pune,” Raut said.
 
 Raut added the IDP is issued either on the same day, or within a day or two from the date of application. “The permit is valid for just one year from the date of its issue. However, upon expiration, the applicant can be issued a new IDP as there are no restrictions on the number of times one can get their IDP issued,” he said.
 
 Raut said more than 3,000 Punekars had applied for IDPs in the last three years and the number is likely to go up because of the growing awareness and ease of foreign travel.
 
 
 
 
 While it may be fairly simple to get an International Driving Permit (IDP), the driving standards of Indian motorists are not considered amongst the best. Many, therefore, believe the tests to obtain a driving licence in India must be made stricter to ensure safe driving habits — in the country and abroad.
 
 Indians settled overseas say while the Indian RTOs issue IDPs in accordance with international conventions, the issuance of normal driving licences too must meet international standards.
 
 
 Sachi Modi-Khakhria, currently a Dubai resident, speaks from experience. “Despite having an Indian license, it took me years to be able to get a driving licence in Dubai. The process, as well as the tests, are very stringent. Dubai has left-hand drive and vehicles are driven at such high speeds that if you do not follow traffic rules, there could be fatal accidents. I haven’t heard of too many Indian drivers violating traffic rules here as they have to pay heavy fines in Dirhams. They are not allowed to return to India without paying up.”
 
 An Indian student in Australia, Yash Khandelwal too warns of the heavy fines imposed on traffic violators. “The average fine for a minor traffic violation is AUS $500. People coming from India, many who do not follow traffic rules back home, must be prepared to follow rules in Australia or any other country. Licences in India are easily issued, in certain cases even to people who do not attend the driving tests in person. There is a need for a stricter procedure and tests to obtain a driving licence in India,” he says.
 
 Shivam Singh, a student in Budapest, says, “Getting a license in Hungary is not difficult. One test needs to be cleared to obtain a licence here. However, driving tests are way more tough and Indians often need multiple attempts to obtain licences abroad. Indian tests should be of international standards as well.”
 
 
