WUHAN: The first ever Sino-Indian "informal" summit got underway Friday with PM Narendra Modi laying out his own 5 fundamentals which, he said, now defined the relationship between the 2 countries. 

 
 There was no sign of any bitterness, which has beset the relationship in the recent past, as Modi told President   these 5 "positives" characterising the relations were soch (thinking), sampark (contact), sahyog (cooperation), sankalp (determination) and sapne (dreams).
 
 The meetings, according to sources, were held in the spirit of Astana Consensus that differences should not be allowed to turn into disputes. That understating was arrived at the Xi-Modi meeting last year on the sidelines of the SCO summit in Astana last year in June.
 
 Emphasising on the need to build a common understanding, Xi told Modi in a one-on-one meeting that he hoped the friendship between the 2 countries would continue to flow like the Ganges and Yangtze. 
 
 Xi later started the meeting in which both he and Modi were accompanied by a 6-member delegation by saying that there should be more such informal meetings in the near future. Modi extended an invite to Xi and expressed hope that he would visit India soon for another round of meeting in under the same format.
 
 The engagements for the day started with a one-on-one followed by tour of Exhibition of Marquis Yi of Zeng Cultural Relics and Treasure at Hubei Provincial Museum). Sources here said that while this meeting was supposed to last for only 20 minutes, it went on for 35 minutes. 
 
 The meeting later at the East Lake guest house was also said to have lasted for almost 2 hours instead of the scheduled 30 minutes.
 
 While reviewing the bilateral ties, the 2 leaders also discussed the international situation with a focus on security and trade. Xi told Modi India and China were not just engines of global growth but also central pillars of the exercise to promote a "globalised and multi-polar" world. According to local media, Xi also expressed hope that the meeting would open a new chapter in ties.
 
 Officials continued to maintain that there was no focus on any particular issue in the meetings and that the 2 leaders most discussed the "enormous" potential of the relationship. "There obviously was an acknowledgement that the relationship has been hijacked in the past few years by differences and that there was a need to focus more on the positives which could outweigh these differences," said an official who didn't want to be quoted.
 
 
  
  
 While Xi said such informal meetings will help take the relationship to the next level, Modi said it was a sign of Xi's affection for India that he had now twice hosted an Indian PM outside Beijing in China.
 
 Modi said Xi's new era, which he has spoken about in the past, and his own new India could come together to work for the benefit of the world. In that context, Modi used the word strength as an acronym which, he said, signified spirituality, tradition, trade, relationship, entertainment, nature and health. When pointed out later to officials that he had not said what the letter g in strength stood for, it was clarified that g stood for games.
 
 "At the delegation-level talks, PM @narendramodi underscored importance of people-to-people contact through STRENGTH : S-Spirituality; T-Tradition,Trade & Technology; R-Relationship; E-Entertainment (Movies, Art, etc.); N-Nature conservation; G-Games; T-Tourism & H-Health&Healing," tweeted MEA spokesperson Raveesh Kumar.
 
 Modi also spoke about how the trust and bonhomie in the bilateral ties now needed to reflect in more people-to-people contacts between the 2 nations.
 
