HYDERABAD: With the row over fee hikes being far from over, schools are now adapting new means to keep their fee structures under wraps, alleged parents pointing out how many of them have even removed their fee details from the official websites. This, parents claimed, was being done to keep themselves away from unnecessary limelight and further scrutiny.

 “In fact some schools are not even giving us a printed copy of the fee structure, as was the norm earlier. They are instead giving handwritten notes that are neither on the school’s letterhead nor have the official stamp,” said a parent.
 
 Worse, the entry of parents into the school premises has also been restricted, they alleged. “Most of them are not allowing parents inside their premises to verify details about admissions unless we furnish details such as our mobile number, birth certificate of the prospective student etc. Only after verifying the data, they are revealing the fee details,” said  , executive member of the Hyderabad School Parents’ Association (HSPA).
 
 Another parent,  , who has been trying to get his ward admitted to kindergarten said, “I was shocked to notice that I was given fee structure on a handwritten note by a school in  . To top it, they also offered me a festival discount and said that they would deduct some amount if I confirm the admission immediately.”
 
 Members of HSPA said parents are dejected after the schools secured a stay from the high court on status quo of fee hike and added that they would soon be filing a petition to get the stay quashed. “After the court’s order, many schools announced that they would hike the fee this year. This has left many parents dejected. So, we have decided to file a petition to seek stay the order, in a week or so,” said  , member, HSPA.
 
 Earlier, the government had asked all the schools to display their fee structure on the website at least at three prominent places. They were also asked to upload fee structure and financial details on to the school education department website. While many schools failed to follow the rule, the ones who did too have now removed them, parents claimed.
 
