Kohlapur: The civic body is likely to take possession of over 1,000 shops located at various commercial markets from traders as the lease period has ended. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) had given these shops on lease for a 20-year period. This duration has now ended and for another 1,000 shops it will be ending in the next few months. The total number of shops owned by the KMC and rented out to traders is around 2,200. The KMC charges a monthly rent from traders. Now, the rent will be based on ready reckoner (RR) rates and those traders bidding higher amount will be given the shops. A civic official said the decision to rent out shops on RR rates will help earn a huge sum of revenue. The KMC expects around Rs 8 crore annually from these shops. The shops are located in commercial complexes like Shivaji Market, Gandhi Market, Shahu Cloth Market, Gangavesh Market, Pan Line and the KMC main building. Pramod Barale the KMC’s chief estate officer, said, “We issued notices to those traders whose term has ended. We had given traders an opportunity to continue the lease period by renewing the agreement. They were told to pay the rent according to RR rates. Around 40 traders have extended the agreement according to new rules of rent and many have approached the state requesting them not to increase the rent. At present, traders pay very less as rent leading to huge revenue losses for the KMC.” The state has directed the civic body not to rent out the KMC’s properties below RR rates. It has also asked the civic body to revise the rates each year. The civic officials therefore think that the traders’ demand will be turned down and they will have to initiate the process of calling bids through open competition to lease out shops. The KMC is of the opinion that the shops are located in commercial markets at the prime spots that have a huge trading potential and traders should not have a problem paying rent. For instance, the civic body invited bids for 34 shops and expects at least Rs 4,500 a month as the rent. Currently, traders are paying Rs 250 to Rs 400 a month. The RR rates of properties at prime locations are much higher than those located at the city’s outskirts. During the legislative assembly session held in December last year, city MLA Rajesh Kshirsagar raised the issue in the session stating that the decision by the KMC to increase the rent charges will hit their business and they will not afford to continue the occupation. Once the lease period ends, the KMC will start issuing the rent bills as per the new policy of the ready reckoner. If the trader fails to pay the bill, a fine will be imposed. 