GURUGRAM: A woman in her thirties who had gone out for a drink with her husband and brother-in-law at a pub in DLF-5 was allegedly molested by four men in the early hours of Sunday. Her doctor-husband and his cousin were abused and threatened when they resisted.

 Their ordeal did not end there. When they left the pub, the four chased their car till her husband called cops.
 
 The accused have been identified as Nikhil, Anirudh Dahiya, Sonu Nagar and  , all residents of Gurugram. Though they managed to speed away before the cops could arrive, they were arrested later that day but released on bail by a city court on Monday.
 
 Police said the woman, her husband and his cousin had gone to   in DLF-5 on Saturday night. Around 12.30 am on Sunday, the accused touched her inappropriately when she was dancing on the floor along with her husband.
 
 First she objected, and when her husband and brother-in-law intervened, the four men started misbehaving with them and even threatened them with dire consequences.
 
 “Initially an argument broke out between us and the four men. The accused soon started abusing us and then threatened us with dire consequences,” the doctor said.
 
 “To avoid any showdown, we soon left the pub. But the four men started chasing our car. At first, I tried to ignore them, but later I was forced to dial 100. 
 
 “However, they managed to escape by the time cops reached the spot. We had noted down the registration number of the car of the accused and given it over to the police,” he added.
 
 On the complaint of the woman’s husband, an FIR has been registered against the accused under sections 294 (obscene act), 506 (criminal intimidation), 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication) and 509 (act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of IPC at   police station.
 
 “The accused went to the pub to celebrate the birthday of Nikhil and the brawl broke out while they were dancing on the floor. We arrested all the four on Sunday itself. On Monday, they were produced in a city court that granted them bail. The probe is on,” said ASI Suresh Kumar, the investigating officer.
 
 However, when contacted,  , manager of Whisky Samba Club, claimed nothing happened inside the pub. “The incident took place outside the pub,” he said.
 
 
