RAE BARELI: Rahul Gandhi’s temple run continued during his Amethi visit on Monday with the   president stopping at a   in Churwa on Rae Bareli border and offering prayers during his first visit to his parliamentary constituency after his elevation.

 The Hanuman temple where he stopped is considered auspicious by politicians. Congress sources said that Rahul’s mother Sonia and his sister Priyanka have also visited the temple on numerous occasions.
 
 “This is probably Rahul ji’s second visit to this temple. He performed a small ‘puja’. Lots of MLAs and MPs stop to pray at this temple,” said a Congress worker. Rahul stayed in the temple for about 10 minutes and stepped out with a vermillion tilak on his forehead. Gandhi had visited more than 20 temples in   while campaigning and had come under BJP attack for his “newfound Hindu-ness” but Congress had defended him by calling him “janeu-dhari” Brahmin and rubbishing allegations of playing a soft-Hindutva card to counter BJP.
 
 On Monday, as Rahul drove through Amethi, a minivan right behind his car carried a huge hoarding calling him ‘Pandit Rahul Gandhi’.
 
 Congress workers said that Gandhi performed a puja as it was an auspicious day of Makar Sankranti.
 
 
 
 
 Addressing a meeting in Salon, Rahul said that BJP government had been lying to people and asserted that time had come for change and Congress will form government at Centre.
 
 “
  (BJP men only tell lies... one after another... give long speeches but do nothing),” he said while adding that it was the duty of every Congress worker to unmask the BJP.
 
 “Modi ji made many promises to you all. But has anyone of you benefited?” he asked. Targeting the Gujarat model of development, Rahul said, “I want to tell you that in the Gujarat model of development, 90% educational institutes are in private hands while 30 lakh youth are looking for jobs.”
 
 Accusing BJP government of snatching the land and water of farmers, he said, “Six lakh acres of land has been given to 15 business houses who have also got loan waiver of over Rs 6 lakh crore from government.”
 
 He said that potato farmers of UP would not have been suffering if BJP had not stalled the Mega Food Park in Amethi. “Potato chips from UP would have been sold all over India. Not just potato farmers, vegetable growers, mint producers and cane farmers would have also benefited from the project that could have given employment to 10,000 people,” Rahul said. Rahul promised to revive the food park project on forming government at Centre. Earlier, Rahul was given a grand welcome by party workers at 16 places on his way to Amethi after UP Congress president Raj Babbar and other leaders welcomed him at Lucknow airport.
 
 Rahul reached Lucknow at 10 am and took the VIP road to reach Rae Bareli.
 
 He took halts at Pardespur, Athayha, Kakwa to meet party workers till he reached Indira Gandhi Group of Insitutions, Amethi.
 
