Ludhiana: Taking suo motu notice of The Times of India’s report, ‘Woman alleges three cops assaulted her in police station’, the Punjab State Human Rights Commission on Friday called for a report from the additional chief secretary, department of home, Punjab.

 The TOI’s report of April 10 said the woman submitted a complaint to police commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill, alleging three policemen detained her “illegally” in a lock-up for entire night, and thrashed and molested her.
 
 The woman, aged 35, is mother of a six-year-old boy. She alleged the incident took place at Salem Tabri police station on April 7 over a tiff she had with her brother-in-law. She said no woman cop was present inside the police station at that time.
 
 On getting the complaint, the commissioner marked an inquiry to assistant commissioner of police (north) Lakhveer Singh Tiwana. 
 
 In her complaint, the woman alleged that she had taken a Rs 1.5-lakh loan from a Jalandhar financier. When the financier came to collect the money on April 7, her brother-in-law reached there and called some policemen too. Her brother-in-law used his “influence” and asked policemen to arrest her and the financier, she said. Even as the woman did not mention what happened to the financier after that, she said cops molested and thrashed her inside the lock-up. 
 
  notice said, “The commission has perused the news item published on 10.04.2018 in the English newspaper ‘Times of India’... It reveals that a woman submitted a complaint to the police commissioner, Ludhiana, alleging three policemen detained her ‘illegally’ in a lock-up for an entire night and thrashed and molested her…this commission, under section 12[a] of the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993, takes suo motu cognizance of the matter and calls for a report from the additional chief secretary to the government of Punjab, Department of Home, Chandigarh, before the next date of hearing scheduled on July 5.”
 
 However, ACP Tiwana said as per the police record, a woman cop was present at the police station. He said the woman was detained and bailed out the next morning, record of which was also available.
 
 On April 11, a video of the complainant went viral in which she admitted to have slapped a plainclothes woman cop at the police station in self-defence.
 
 The commission, comprising chairperson Justice Iqbal Ahmed Ansari and members, Justice Ashutosh Mohunta and Avinash Kaur, took suo motu notice, confirmed system manager, PSHRC, Rohit Chatrath. 
 
 
