AMARAVATI: A day after   leaders charged TDP government with corruption,   chief minister and party supremo N   hit back at the right wing party, saying BJP should first explain corruption charges levelled against its leaders before pointing fingers at others. 

 "It's ironical BJP is making corruption allegations against TDP without answering allegations against it. In fact, when YSRCP charged TDP with corrupt practices, BJP defended us then. Now, all of a sudden, they are levelling baseless charges at us," Naidu told his MPs during a teleconference on Sunday morning.
 
 He wondered why the Prime Minister's Office is regularly entertaining YSRCP MP  , but keeping away from liquor baron  , when both individuals are facing several cases by different agencies. 
 
 "This shows the political intent of BJP," Naidu told his MPs. Dismissing the charge levelled by BJP president Amit Shah in his letter to Naidu that AP has not been submitting utilisation certificates, the CM said it was BJP that was running away and not responding to the challenge posed to it by TDP MP Ramesh on the issue. 
 
 "AP stands No.3 in the country when it comes to submitting utilisation certificates. It's time other political parties also took a clear stand on the Centre. They have to decide on supporting a central government that's ignoring people of AP or the TDP which has been fighting for the people of the state," he said.
 
 On Saturday, Naidu hit back with a vengeance after Amit Shah's letter to him. Addressing the AP assembly, Naidu said, "TDP did not snap ties with the BJP for political considerations. In fact, it was BJP that did so in   by parting ways with TDP without informing us. We went to polls together in Telangana and AP, but Telangana BJP leaders unilaterally announced they will not tie up with the TDP for 2019 polls. Did we say anything on that? Amit Shah's letter may be addressed to me, but it is an insult to the people of AP. Contrary to his claims, AP did not get anything new or more than other states despite facing a difficult situation after bifurcation. In fact, you were just giving back taxes paid by the people of Andhra to us after taking your share." 
 
 
