Nagpur: The   standing committee on environment, forests, science and technology is likely to submit a report on the environmental issues related to Vidarbha in Parliament. The committee has also assured to take up complaints received from activists relating to pollution cases in and around the city.

 The committee, headed by former Union minister and deputy leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma, held a meeting with the officials of   (WCL) and Manganese Ore India Limited (MOIL) at a city hotel on Tuesday. It is learnt that the committee is studying pollution caused by the mines of  , MOIL, threats from the mines to forest and measures taken by the two PSUs.
 
 Later, the committee visited NEERI to know about its projects. The committee is likely to study problems being faced by NEERI and requirements for the overall development of the department.
 
 Sharma declined to share any information with TOI stating that the report is confidential and has to be submitted in Parliament.
 
 Activists of Jai Jawan Jai Kisan, officials of Vidarbha Environmental Action Group and others expressed a wish to meet the committee. Initially, they were not allowed to. But, later, Sharma intervened and a discussion was held.
 
 The activists apprised the committee about the excess water utilization by the Mahagenco’s Koradi and Khaparkheda thermal power stations that is affecting Kanhan river and Totladoh irrigation reservoir as well as the agricultural fields. They registered a strong objection on the extension given by the MoEF to Koradi thermal power expansion project for installation of flue gas desulphuriser (FGD) and highlighted about the MPCB’s negligence towards massive pollution by Koradi and Khaparkheda thermal power stations.
 
 “We also informed the members about NEERI using potable water for gardening and research purposes. We requested the committee to take action on MahaMetro for laying the tracks on the Ambazari lake’s embankment. The MahaMetro undertaking several constructions without approvals and environment impact assessment study was also raised,” they said.
 
 The activists also apprised the committee about the impact a large number of thermal power stations will have on environment, forest, water bodies and the people of Vidarbha. “This region has a thick forest cover which is fast depleting due to pollution from large scale industrial projects including power plants. Most of these projects are very close to forest areas. The pollution emitted from these projects is destroying the forest and wild life. But the compensatory afforestation is done at places like Ratnagiri in Western Maharashtra,” he said.
 
 The committee was also told that the power generated from the plants located close to the forests is transmitted through very high voltage transmission lines that also pass through dense forests. “Thousands of trees are cut to create Right of Way. The electro magnetic waves from the lines also effects the trees, wild life and human being. Thousands of acres of agriculture land is rendered useless. A huge quantum of raw water is being utilized at these power stations too,” the activists said.
 
 
