CHANDIGARH: “Not one, but many other papers were leaked, so why are they re-conducting the two examinations,” said the disappointed and agitated students, who had gathered to   outside   office in Panchkula on Thursday.

 They said the economics paper for Class XII was leaked on March 25 so, why did they not cancel the paper before it was conducted. Around 50 students of Class XII and Class X studying in different schools had gathered on Thursday to protest against the decision of the CBSE to re-conduct the Class XII economics paper and Class X mathematics paper.
 
 Students demanded there should be re-examination of all subjects. “The board should conduct re-examination for accounts, business studies and mathematics also because there was news that all these papers had been leaked as well. We have watched news where they have shown the entire accounts paper, which had been leaked. But this has been ignored by CBSE,” rued Jatin Dua, a Class XII student of  , Sector 46, Chandigarh.
 
 Students want a long break to prepare for the examination and tackle fear and stress. Pulkit Soni, a student of DAV School, Sector 8, Panchkula, said, “We want CBSE to withdraw its decision. If not, they should take decision to cancel the business studies and accounts examination too. I am very depressed after I came to know about the board’s decision to re-conduct economics paper. It is the prime duty of the CBSE to conduct the examination in a fair way. We are demanding that board should provide us 15 days’ time so that we can prepare well for economics paper.”
 
 “If there any guarantee the paper will not be leaked again,” questioned the students.
 
 Rahul Dahiya, a Class XII student of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 22 Chandigarh, blamed the board. “They should have ensured proper security. What is the guarantee the paper will not be leaked again? This is unfair,” he grieved.
 
 “Board has failed totally. They failed to keep the paper safely and students are facing consequences for their failure. Board should provide us appropriate time so that we can perform well in mathematics examination,” said Arman, a Class X student of Gurukul School, Panchkula.
 
 The news of re-exam has left the entire student community in a state of shock. TOI alone got more than 100 messages and calls from Class X and XII students and their parents since Wednesday seeking help in getting re-examination stopped. Every student who approached had a similar concern.
 
 Students said it was time for them to prepare for the entrance examination and this re-examination will hamper their preparations. Students and parents, requesting anonymity told TOI that they were all set to start preparing for JEE, NEET, CA and other competitive exams but now they have to get back to ‘boards mode’ which is highly stressful.
 
 In an email, a city-based advocate-cum-parent of Class X student  , stated that it is beyond understanding as to why students are being penalized for no fault of theirs. “Asking all the students to re-appear for the examination seems illogical as the innocent children are being penalized unnecessarily. Ordering re-exam can have a huge impact on the minds of the students of Class X.” It was added CBI inquiry may be ordered to find out the persons who have leaked the papers and they will be punished. Those who got the papers leaked should be dealt with.
 
 
