PATNA: Call it the indifference of students towards union polls or some flaw in the   process, only three nominations were received on Wednesday, the first day of filing nominations for the much-hyped Patna University Students’ Union ( ) elections. Voting for 28 offices, including five key offices and 23 council members, are scheduled to be held on February 17.

 Even though PU administration had made elaborate arrangements for facilitating nominations by students at the Wheeler Senate House and all the teachers and non-teaching staff engaged to receive nominations had reached well on time (10am), no contestant was visible till 2pm. Vivek Kumar, a research scholar of geography department, was the first one to file nomination for union council membership from the social science faculty. He was followed by two other students, one each from social science faculty and   constituency, who filed nominations for council membership till the close of nominations at 3pm.
 
 PU chief election officer P K Poddar said not a single nomination was received for the posts of president, vice-president, general secretary, joint secretary and treasurer. It is expected that all the contestants will file their nominations on Thursday, the last day of filing nominations. Nearly 500 nomination papers had been purchased by the aspiring candidates or their supporters, said PU sources.
 
 There was heavy police bandobust in and around the Wheeler Senate House and all the vehicles entering the campus were being physically searched by police. No student was allowed to enter the house without showing his identity card. PU vice-chancellor  , students’ welfare dean  , proctor G K Palei and registrar Rabindra Kumar visited the venue and inspected the arrangements. More than 50 police personnel, including women constables, had been pressed into service.
 
 Some student leaders, who were roaming around Wheeler Senate House said most of the contestants could not file their nominations on Wednesday as they were busy taking an affidavit from the court that no criminal case was pending against them in any case. Besides, different student organizations could not finalize the selection of candidates for different offices of the union. 
 
 According to Poddar, candidates have been asked to get the percentage of their attendance certified by the head of their institution and produce their matriculation certificates for verification of age. However, students who have attended some educational, sports or cultural activity camps will get an attendance of four classes per day if they fall short of mandatory 75% attendance for contesting the election. An instruction to this effect was given to the principals of colleges and heads of postgraduate departments on Wednesday.
 
 All the student organizations owing allegiance to different political parties have already decided to enter the election arena by fielding candidates on key offices. Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad ( ), Chhatra Janta Dal (U), All India Students’ Federation, All India Students’ Association, Chhatra National Congress Party, Rashtriya Chhatra Janta Dal, Chhatra Lok Janshakti Party, National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) and All India Democratic Students’ Organisation have started canvassing to garner the electorate’s support for their candidates. They have been holding meetings in different colleges and organizing poster exhibitions highlighting students’ welfare measures. While some organizations have announced the names of candidates for different offices of the union, others are likely to do so on Thursday. Besides, several independent candidates may also enter the election fray.
 
 The election committee is also contemplating to organize an open-house debate among the presidential candidates on the pattern of US Presidential election. The candidates will have to submit a brief resume of their speech beforehand.
 
 Exams postponed:Patna University has postponed all the examinations scheduled from February 6 to 20 in the wake of elections. The university has also ordered for cancellation of all types of leaves availed by teachers and non-teaching staff during the period.
 
 
