New Delhi: How tough or easy is it to get a government certificate? Let’s say a caste   or an income-proof certificate? And how easy is it to play the rules?

 To get answers, TOI visited the deputy commissioners’ office complex at Nand Nagri on Tuesday. This correspondent posed as an applicant and asked a policeman there if there was anyone who could offer paid help. The policeman pointed to a man chewing tobacco. He was a   and was sitting on a bike parked next to the office entrance. 
 
 The tout said everything would be done easily, provided the applicant’s father had a caste certificate. Another tout promised to get the certificate for any caste against Rs 20,000 and some paperwork. For income certificate, a tout said Rs 5,000 was needed. 
 
 It was surprising to see so many touts operating there with full knowledge of the police, especially because the complex houses the   of the deputy commissioners of northeast and Shahdara districts, and offices of several SDMs.
 
 Then we met a woman named Renu who was eight months pregnant. This was her third visit. “I came here on my husband’s bike from Vishwas Nagar for an income certificate,” she said. The certificate is needed to avail of the benefits offered to people belonging to economically weaker sections of society. “I have two daughters whom I want to send to private schools. An income certificate is required for EWS benefits,” Renu said.
 
 Every day, stalls outside the SDM offices see long queues of people applying for various certificates. Most of them are unaware of the processes involved and are forced to travel long distances just to find out the documents needed. The whole process requires them to visit the same office multiple times as “officials don’t give us detailed information”. 
 
 Md Khalid, a resident of Dilshad Colony, was on his second visit. “On December 29, after standing in the queue for one hour, I was told that I need to attached a photocopy of LPG connection also. Today, I have come with LPG connection record,” he said.
 
 Not many prefer online services either. “Last month, my landlord’s son submitted all my documents online for income certificate. But when I went for physical verification, I found that my application was already rejected. I was not given any explanation and I decided not to apply online again,” said Manohar Kumar, a factory worker. 
 
 At Seelampur SDM’s office, a 65-year-old woman kept on roaming around to know how to get the damaged birth certificate of her granddaughter reissued without luck. All the counters had been closed by then, and she didn’t know the working hours. But the SDM, Anil Sirohi, said all applicants are helped and even desks are set up to assist them. 
 
 Citing transport expenses, long queues, uncertainty and humiliation at the hands of officials, many prefer doorstep delivery of services. “We are ready to pay for the service,” said Paveen Kumar, another visitor. 
 
 
