PANAJI: Commuters along the   route will soon be able to see the ambitious new   bridge taking shape. Officials of  , which has been awarded work of the bridge construction, said that pile caps will be cast for the pillars in the river by May 15 and the towering pillars will be seen rising into the skyline within a month’s time. The company said that work on making segments of the superstructure or top half of the bridge has already begun.

 The work on the bridge superstructure is taking place using a robotic welding arm at a unit set up below the Konkan railway bridge on the Agasaim-end of the Zuari bridge project. “On the southern end of the bridge, the foundation work for all the pillars for the elevated approach road to the bridge has been completed. Pile work has been completed for all 52 pillars on land. For the marine part of the bridge, we have just received CRZ permission and work has started. Forty more pillars are coming up in the marine part,” vice-president (structures) for Dilip Buildcon Ltd, Atul Joshi told TOI.
 
 On the Agasaim-end or the northern end of the bridge, the process of award of land for construction of the approach roads has just been completed. Land was available for the approach road on the Agassaim-end of the bridge project for construction of 25 pillars and foundations for 22 have been laid, Joshi said.
 
 The bridge approach roads will also include a bypass at the   junction, which will allow the village traffic to pass from below the elevated approach road, without affecting the traffic moving towards the bridge at a high speed. The award for the land at Siridao has just been passed and the land will be handed over soon and work on the Siridao bypass will then begin, Joshi said.
 
 Over 7 km of the 13-km-long Zuari bridge project will be constructed at an elevated level in order to allow traffic to pass from below and enable vehicles using the bridge to pick up speed, on the lines of an expressway. It is thereby expected to reduce the 45-minute travel distance between Panaji and   considerably.
 
 The eight-lane bridge will have two carriageways of four-lanes each.
 
 
