PANAJI: After extensive deliberations with all stakeholders, the Indian   has dropped the idea of closing down the sole runway at   for maintenance every Saturday and Sunday and has instead agreed to undertake preventive repairs every Saturday for five hours in the morning.

 Maintenance of the runway will be carried out on a permanent basis from October onwards, after the monsoons when the winter schedule starts for flight operations, which also coincides with the start of the tourism season in Goa.
 
 “Once a week the runway will be closed for preventive maintenance so that we don’t land in a situation that the runway has to be closed for six to seven days for maintenance. All airfields undertake regular maintenance,” Goa airport director B C H Negi said.
 
 The decision was taken after an exhaustive meeting with  , domestic airlines and chartered flight operators, and will come as a partial relief for  , which has been objecting to the closure of the runway.
 
 “The Navy agreed to reduce the maintenance time slot to five hours on every Saturday between 6.30am and 11.30am. The decision will have a drastic impact on domestic flight operations,” officials said. The Navy had originally planned to carry out maintenance work over the weekend for six hours each day.
 
 Even as the Navy agreed to reduce the maintenance period, naval officials warned that flying operations have reached a peak and that there is a strong chance of the runway getting damaged. “Dabolim airport has reached its declared capacity during peak hours resulting in no or very less time for runway maintenance. As a result, the runway surface condition is deteriorating and may compromise safe operations,” a naval official said.
 
 Currently, the runway is available for civilianoperations for 24 hours on Saturday and Sunday. Restriction are imposed only during military flying, between 8.30 and 12.30pm and 3.30pm and 4.30pm on weekdays. 
 
 A single charter flight, which was being affected by the runway closure, will be allowed to land at 11.30am on Saturday and depart at 1pm.
 
 
