Gurgaon:   will seal and demolish   in the 15 recently regularised colonies if the owners fail to submit their building plans and development charges within six months. 

 A notice in this regard was issued by the department of urban local bodies on Friday.
 
 A copy of the notice accessed by TOI states that all plot owners with constructed houses will have to submit their building plans along with the scrutiny fees of Rs 10 per sq metre of the total covered area, apart from the development charges at Rs 1,250 per square metre.
 
 In order to encourage property owners to pay early, a 10% rebate will be applicable to the cases where the   are made in lump sum before April 30. 
 
 “In case the property owners do not submit the documents and pay the relevant charges within a period of six months, their properties will be either sealed or demolished,” said MCG commissioner Yashpal Yadav.
 
 Residents can also pay the development charges in equal instalments if required. “If someone opts to deposit the development charges in instalments, then the building plan shall be first approved provisionally. The final building plan shall be approved only after payment of full development charges,” says the notice.
 
 The colonies include Cancon Enclave part 1 and part 2, Bhim Colony, Hari Nagar Extension part 1 and part 2, Shri Ram Colony, Devi Lal Extension, New Jyoti Park Colony, Patel Nagar Extension, Shiv Nagar, Vikas Nagar, areas around Tikli village, Ghasola, Nararpur Rupa, areas around Jharsa village extension and Harsaru village, and Surat Nagar-1 extension.
 
 For the first four colonies and the area around Harsaru village, the rate has to be paid at Rs 750 and the compounding fees, yet to be prescribed by the authority. 
 
 These 15 colonies have been identified as civic amenities and infrastructure deficient areas under the provisions of Section 3 of the Haryana Management of Civic Amenities and Infrastructure Deficient Municipal Areas (Special Provision) Act, 2016.
 
 In all, 47 colonies were identified for the takeover by the corporation, of which 15 has been notified, while another 32 are still under process.
 
 
