Ludhiana: The   on Pakhowal Road — which has hardly been utilized except a few programmes — will now prove to be an additional burden on the fund-starved municipal corporation, which will have to take over its maintenance work. The contractor who had constructed the stadium had handled the maintenance work for one year, but now MC will have to take over. The MC’s technical advisory committee has also given its nod to take over maintenance work, and the committee had approved Rs27.43 lakh for its annual maintenance.

 In the indoor stadium, there are 74 shops, and space is also available for establishing offices and restaurants. It is centrally air-conditioned and spread in 3.2 acres of land, while the total sports arena is 10,000 square feet, where events like basketball, table tennis, taekwondo, fencing etc can be organized. Officials have also been asked to do something for auctioning shops in the stadium, so that MC can generate some funds, and the structure should also come in use.
 
 Notably, the stadium with a seating capacity of around 4,000 people was inaugurated in November 2016, but so far, only a single sports event was organized in the stadium. Most of the times, it has been used to organize cultural programmes only. The superintending engineer of Buildings and Roads department Pawan Sharma said if MC had spent money on its construction, then they would also take care of its maintenance. He said they had allocated funds for hiring manpower and other necessary arrangements, so that the stadium does not get damaged.
 
 In the technical advisory committee meeting, members gave nod to various development works. Most of these works related to construction of roads with tiles and RMC (ready-mix concrete). Apart from this, MC extended the contract of necessary maintenance of street lights until the end of March. Meanwhile, new tenders will be invited. Officials also gave a nod to works related to sewerage cleaning and laying of water supply lines in various localities. 
 
 
