NEW DELHI: Cops have launched an inquiry after a woman who was allegedly robbed by four men on board the   claimed that a dozen other passengers were held at knife-point for nearly half an hour and robbed, before the train had entered   railway station. She alleged that her statement was not recorded by the cops while filing an FIR at the Nizamuddin railways police station, after which only a case of theft was registered.

 The woman, Hari Dulari Tripathi, a resident of Kanpur, said that while she was heading to   with her son and daughter, she saw four men carrying iron rods and knives entering the compartment. They asked the passengers to leave their belongings on the seat in front of them and not resist.
 
 “I heard them threatening a few other passengers. I panicked after hearing them and left my bag on the seat and sat near the window. My children were sleeping on the seat opposite mine. After some time, I found my bag missing from the seat beside me,” she said.
 
 Later, the family had reached Nizamuddin railways police station to register a complaint. Tripathi said that the policemen who had taken down her complaint wrote the FIR without recording her statement in which she had alleged a robbery. She said that her bag contained jewellery worth Rs 50,000 and Rs 1,000 in cash.
 
 Following the allegations, a team led by   (railways) Parvaiz Ahmed reached her residence in Ambala where her statement was recorded. Police said that an enquiry will be conducted to find out if someone from the RPF or the GRP had dissuaded the other passengers from registering a complaint. They would also find out why the woman’s statement was not recorded.
 
 The police team that had reached out to the woman took down the description of the four youths who had boarded the train. They would prepare a sketch based on that.
 
 The role of some railway officials is under scanner as it was found that there were only five reserved passengers in the coach while the others were travelling without a reservation. Cops are trying to find out how the suspects had entered the coach while the train was moving. Efforts are being made to track down the other passengers as well.
 
 
