THRISSUR:   Sivasundar, one of the most popular captive elephants in Kerala, died on Sunday morning. 

 The 48-year-old tusker was undergoing treatment for impaction for the past 67 days. According to veterinarian Dr P B Giridas, the elephant had developed diarrhoea on Saturday. 
 
 Sivasundar had been holding the thidambu (replica of idol) for the Thiruvambady side in the famed Thrissur Pooram for the past 15 years. With a height of 306 cms, Sivasundar was one of the tallest and majestic captive elephants in the state, and a highly-sought-after tusker for temple festivals across the state. 
 
 The elephant was offered to Thiruvambady temple by NRI entrepreneur T A Sundar Menon more than 15 years ago.
 
 A large number of people from various walks of life turned up to pay their last respects. Seven elephants belonging to Thiruvambady were also brought in to pay homag . The carcass was then taken to Malayattoor forest area for postmortem and cremation.
 
 Meanwhile, V K Venkitachalam, secretary of  , pointed out that it was the seventh captive elephant that died in the state this year, and the toll would touch 53 in the past 27 months.
 
 Elephants were forced to participate in festivals even while they suffer from various intestinal diseases, Venkitachalam said in a letter to the Prime Minister, who is also the chairman of National Wildlife Board . “Sivasundar was also suffering from various diseases and it was forced to participate in festivals in Kottayam, Palakkad and Thrissur districts from second week of December 2017 till January 2, 2018,” he alleged.
 
 Veterinarians have also expressed concern over the frequent deaths due to impaction. Veterinarian Dr T S Rajeev said it was high time we reconsidered the kind of food being fed to captive elephants in Kerala. “Elephants are grazers and browsers and they usually eat grass and branches and barks of trees, which have high water content. Items like palm and coconut leaves, which are commonly being given to the elephants in Kerala, must be avoided, Dr Rajeev said.
 
 
