By: Rafi Siddiqui

 
 Pune is one of the fastest growing cities in the state with hundreds of industries and IT firms fighting for space.
 
 However, Pune must be the only city (or district) to be governed by five different civic bodies. All these bodies work independently, sometimes causing inconvenience to citizens due to overlapping management rights.
 
 Our city has three cantonment boards and two municipal corporations — each working independently of the other.
 
 The first cantonment came up in Khadki (then Kirkee) in 1917, when the British set up an army camp for soldiers of the British Indian Army. Very few people may know that the   is where soldiers
 
 from even Poland and America are buried. Khadki is also home to many military establishments such as the ammunition factory, the College of Military Engineering and a military dairy farm.
 
 Later, when the needs of the   grew, it established a new cantonment area in Pune. The Pune Cantonment was set up in 1918. Today, it is the headquarters of the Southern Command. The Pune Cantonment Board is responsible for the civic administration of the area covered by the board. The Cantonment police station is responsible for law and order in the cantonment area.
 
 The third cantonment is Dehu Road. It came up in 1958. The British had already set up ordnance factories in Dehu Road in the 1940s.
 
 But property ownership rights, within the limits of the three boards, make for an interesting read. All lands in the cantonment areas belong to the defence establishment. All houses and buildings in these cantonments were erected during the time of the British, who gave the plots to private persons on long-term leases running into hundreds of years. No one can sell or reconstruct any new structure here and the existing structures remain in very bad shape because permission to repair, alter or reconstruct has to be obtained from the defence headquarters in Delhi — a tedious process. This is also why many beautiful Spanish- and British-style villas are just ruins today.
 
 Let’s now talk about the   (PMC) — charged with the health and welfare of Pune, the second largest city of Maharashtra. PMC was established on February 15, 1950. The civic body — lead by a municipal commissioner — is divided into 48 municipal wards, each represented by three corporators.
 
 PMC had inherited some of the oldest areas of Pune city, where civic amenities are still rundown. But it has been adding more villages into its boundaries, without providing sewage lines, water or proper roads. It may have become one of the biggest municipal bodies of the country, but the PMC is struggling to keep Pune fit.
 
 The fifth and the newest corporation is the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), located on the old Pune-Mumbai highway in the heart of Pimpri Chinchwad. The   was formed on March 4, 1970, covering an area of about 87 sqkm. It became a municipal corporation in 1982 and now covers an area of about 181 sqkm. Giant industries in the area have also helped the PCMC become one of the richest civic bodies in the region.
 
 Here is the problem, though. Having so many civic bodies has created an overlap of responsibilities. The result is all those photos of garbage, broken roads and half-built bridges from locations across the city and nearby areas. Citizens suffer because of non-cooperation from civic authorities, especially the cantonment boards, who neither have the funds nor the will to run as one unit.
 
 The writer is an advocate based out of Pune
 
 
