AHMEDABAD: Defence and state government officials are worried about the dismal number of Gujarat youth selected at the 2017 recruitment rally, where only 890 candidates qualified out of a record number of applicants, 1.19 lakh, who applied to be soldiers in the  . The number of recruits, 890, is lower than the corresponding figure (1,278) in 2016 and (1,083) 2015, since the recruitment process has gone online.

 The recruitment division of the Indian Army, at a meeting with officials of the directorate of employment, identified a lack of focus on physical training as the key reason. According to sources, the other big factor that emerged was that Gujarat candidates failed miserably in completing the 1.6km run in 5.45 minutes, the qualifying time for which was earlier 6 minutes.
 
 Defence sources said after a record turnout of 1,19,159 candidates at the the recruitment rallies in Anand and  , under the Army recruitment offices of Ahmedabad and Jamnagar, they were expecting selection numbers to shoot up.
 
 “The footfall at Anand and Bhavnagar rallies, 48,120 and 32,800 respectively, had all the indicators of a record level of recruitment. That only 890 were selected as soldiers in various categories disappointed us,” said a senior defence official.
 
 Sources said even the preferential treatment from the recruitment zone of Pune, which includes Gujarat and Maharashtra, giving Gujarat the first opportunity to fill up vacancies with the zone, the target of achieving the highest recruitment ever could not be fulfilled.
 
 According to sources, among the primary factors for the dismal selection level in 2017, is the reduced time of the 1.6km run, which now stands at 5.45 minutes instead of 6 minutes for categories such soldier clerk, technical, nursing assistant etc. “The time limit for recruitment of soldier category general duty is still 6 minutes,” added a defence source.
 
 Sources claimed that during their meeting with top officials of the directorate of employment, which runs 53 training centres across the state, they also identified that the training given to candidates in the first phase was for the written exams while physical tests were held before the written tests.
 
 “Our report mentions that training was given by counsellors and vocational trainers, while for fruitful results ex-army personnel should be tasked with training candidates. State authorities pointed out that during physical test, as many as 150 candidates run together, and sometimes a deserving candidates can’t make the cut due to the commotion,” added a source.
 
 Defence sources said they keep the weather in mind while conducting physical tests. “Such rallies are mostly held between April and May or from September to October, when the weather is not extreme. We start with physical tests at 4am and end them at 11am, for about 3,500 candidates each day. So that all get an equal chance when the sun is not shining down,” added a defence official.
 
 Defence sources said they would hand over the report to the government of Gujarat, which has made extra efforts to increase the number of Gujarati youths in the Army. “The next recruitment rally is to be organized in April,” added a defence official.
 
 
