The Land of the Rising Sun has been slowly but steadily casting its influence in and around Ahmedabad, building up an economic and cultural presence through big-ticket investments and projects. The success of the first Japanese Industrial Park at Mandal has led to a second project at  , and a slew of investments from Japanese industrial giants. With the Ahmedabad-Gandhinagar Metro project and the Ahmedabad-Mumbai High Speed Rail project (bullet train) firmly on track, the cultural influence of   is also being felt in the city.

 While the ties between the two countries began officially with Japan-India diplomatic relations first being established in 1952, the pace of Japanese investment in India, particularly in Gujarat, has risen significantly over the last decade. Ahmedabad is now home to around 200 Japanese nationals.
 
 
  
  
 Raining investments
 
 Japanese companies have made big-ticket investments here. Apart from iconic infrastructure projects, several automobile and technology giants have set foot in the state. "Investments worth at least Rs 10,000 crore have been made by Japanese companies. With big-ticket investments, direct as well as indirect employment from allied industries is generated. Moreover, Japanese firms bring in technology, which will help the overall growth of industries here," said D Thara, vice-chairman and managing director, Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC). Hiroyuki Kitamura, director of   (JETRO), Gujarat, said, "Several companies have invested here and we’re encouraging more to invest in the second Japan Industrial Park. We hope that there is adequate social infrastructure support, including schools, hospitals and road and transport connectivity near industrial clusters, so that more people from Japan can come in and live here with their families."
 
 More takers for Japanese
 
 The first step to knowing a country’s culture is to familiarize oneself with its language. When the first Japanese language classes started in Ahmedabad in 2009-10, merely 52 students took interest. Currently, the number has grown to more than 500. "As Japanese companies began setting up operations in Ahmedabad and Gujarat, interest in the Japanese language grew among professionals. The number of students
 
 enrolling in beginner’s and advanced Japanese classes have doubled over the years," said Mukund Patel, chief officer, Japan Information and Study Centre in Ahmedabad, which has two language teachers from Japan.
 
 From sushi to bento boxes
 
 Sushi, Tempura, Tamagoyaki or Oyakodon are dishes that were once difficult to find on menus even at Ahmedabad’s best restaurants and hotels. Not anymore. To cater to the increasing inflow of Japanese business delegates as well as those living here, hotels have been importing special ingredients and meat. "Delegates from Japan account for a major chunk of guests at our hotel. This encouraged us to start offering bento boxes, which are typical Japanese takeaway boxes, to our guests. Today, we have a specialized Japanese kitchen and a wide range of cuisine on offer," said Sanjay Kaushik, a hotelier from Ahmedabad. The demand for Japanese food grew with more Japanese people coming to Gujarat. Hotel chains that began operations recently have been serving companies too. "From the time we began, we started serving bento boxes, which go to some Japanese automobile companies around Ahmedabad. We’ve been supplying roughly 500-600 boxes every month," said Vishwapreet Singh Cheema, another city hotelier.
 
 Growing cultural interest and exchange
 
 Gujarat University’s academic exchange programme with a Japanese university in 1970-71 was the first step to encourage academic exchange between students of the two countries. In 1975, this grew stronger with the foundation of the Indo-Japan Friendship Association (IJFA), Gujarat, which made consistent efforts to promote Japanese culture and language in Ahmedabad. Mukesh Patel, president of IJFA Gujarat, said, "A major milestone came when Japan agreed to be a partner country at the Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit (VGGS) 2009. That’s when we launched Japan festivals in a completely new avatar, which presented several cultural aspects of Japan, including its fine arts and performing arts." Today, the Japanese Association of Ahmedabad (JAA) is run by a group of Japanese nationals. A reverse cultural exchange also happened, as they adapted, to an extent, to the local way of living. "It is always a feeling of warmth to be among Indians who treat me like a family member. I enjoy life here, be it mangoes in summer or the historic buildings in the old city. I’ve participated in a few activities of the JAA, as it is a remembrance of my own culture, especially cooking Japanese food," said Sayaka Homma, a commercial manager at a Japanese company who lives in Ahmedabad.
 
 
