HYDERABAD:   works in   will take off in 2019 and will be completed within three years from when the work starts, Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited (HMRL) managing director NVS Reddy said on Wednesday. He said people in Old City have been eagerly waiting for the project. 

 
 NVS Reddy told TOI that the Metro Rail project in Old City would be taken up as per the original alignment from Darushifa to Falaknuma. "The government will soon finalise the width of the road as to whether it should be 80feet or 100feet wide for executing the project," he said. As many as 1,000 properties are most likely to be affected in the road widening required for executing the project. The state government is also working out a package for those who will be losing their property since people most affected will be small-time traders, Reddy said. 
 
 "The state government wants to construct Metro Rail with minimum road width so that the number of properties that need to be taken over are reduced further. Our plan is to protect the heritage and religious structures on the stretch. As per our plans, the Metro Rail will go over only four religious structures," NVS Reddy said. 
 
 The Metro Rail project in Old City had been proposed as part of the Jubilee Bus Station ( ) to Falaknuma (Corridor II) which is spread over 15km and has15 stations. 
 
 It passes through 5.5km of Old City via Darulshifa, Puravana Haveli, Miralamandi, Moghalpura, Hari Bowli, Shalibanda and ends at Falaknuma. Though it was supposed to be taken up along with other areas, the JBS to Falaknuma corridors as of now ends at Mahatma Gandhi bus station (MGBS). 
 
 Old City project work was delayed after   (MIM) leaders and other groups opposed it on the grounds that the lignment would affect over 1,000 properties over just 5.5km. MIM leaders suggested an alternative alignment along the Musi river, High Court, City College, Hussaini Alam, Kalapathar and Bahadurpura. 
 
 The project developer Larsen & Toubro (L&T), which had conducted a feasibility study on the advice of the state government, said the new alignment was not feasible as it would not only increase the project cost by 400 crore to 500 crore, but also increase the distance of the corridor by two kilometres. It also raised environmental issues as the alternative route would pass along the Musi river. 
 
