MUMBAI: It took the   a   to build three   (FOBs) at Elphinstone Road-Parel,   and Ambivli stations, which were thrown open for commuters on Tuesday. The three FOBs were inaugurated by dabbawalas, kolis and commuters in the presence of railway minister   and chief minister  , who travelled from CSMT to Parel by train for the event.
 
  
 The army had been roped in to construct the three FOBs following the   FOB stampede on September 29, 2017, which had claimed 23 lives. They officially started the work on Nov-ember 1, 2017. Army completed the work on Sunday (February 25) and handed over the FOBs to the railways on Monday. “This work by the army will have a domino effect. I am sure that for the railways, it has been a learning experience to work with the army,” said Goyal.
 
 The Elphinstone Road FOB has access to the platform at the Dadar-end of Parel station. “The new bridge will decongest the existing FOBs and ensure smooth flow of commuters at both Elphinstone Road and Parel stations,” said WR spokesperson Ravinder Bhakar. “It will also prove beneficial for flower and fish vendors who visit Dadar markets.” An inquiry had concluded that the stampede broke out when a flower vendor shouted, “Phool gir gaya (flowers have fallen)” but people on the FOB assumed he had yelled, “Pul gir gaya (bridge fell)” and panicked.
 
 Shilpa Vishwakarma, who had suffered fractures in the stampede, said, “It was good on the part of the government to involve the army. The FOB will help disperse the crowd, especially those who alight at Parel on the Dadar-end of platform.” But Aakash Parab (18), a flower vendor’s son who had fractured his right leg and lost his 11-year-old brother Rohit in the tragedy, said, “The authorities should have built an additional FOB long ago... The new FOB is of no use to me; it won’t bring back my brother.” 
 
 The army’s involvement seems to have forced the railways to expedite its projects. For instance, railways completed the construction of a new FOB and an additional entry at Tilaknagar in 75 days, and awarded an Elphinstone FOB work within 24 hours after the tender was opened on November 6, 2017. Coincidentally, the tender was floated on the day of the stampede.
 
 Lauding the army for its help, Fadnavis said the railway ministry has lined up projects worth Rs 51,000 crore under MUTP IIIA to improve the suburban rail network.
 
 
