By:BB Goswami 

 SILCHAR: A vehicle lifter and arms smuggler, who has confessed on Saturday to have stolen 5000 motorcycles, 30 trucks, pistols, laptops and drugs since 2007, was arrested from his residence at Kabuganj in Cachar district, around 20 km from here. 
 
 Acting on a tip-off,   raided the house of Kamrul Islam Borbhuiya alias Lekoi (27) on Friday night, having received information about the whereabouts of the kingpin of the bike lifting group active across the Barak Valley areas. A number of stolen items, arms and ammunition were recovered from his possession.
 
 Superintend of police (Cachar) Rakesh Roushan on Saturday said during interrogation Kamrul Islam confessed to having been involved in the vehicle lifting racket since 2007, since when his group have stolen nearly 5000 motorcycles. Besides, Kamrul has stolen almost 30 trucks from Jiribam in Manipur, Aizwal in Mizoram and Patharkandi in Karimganj district, besides  , he added. 
 
 "We have come to know that he needs only three minutes to steal a motorcycle and five minutes to steal a big truck," said the SP.
 
 He also informed that the arrested man was involved in arms and drug smuggling. 
 
 "Kamrul purchases pistols from Dimapur at a cost of Rs 25,000 and sells them to the bike lifters, drug smugglers at a cost of Rs 55,000," the police officer added.
 
 According to the SP, Kamrul had robbed a medicine-loaded truck at Madhurband in Silchar and sold it at Imphal for Rs 20 lakh in 2007. 
 
 "He is also involved in a couple of murder cases. Besides this, he is known to have received stolen laptops and mobile phones from local thieves and resold them. Till date, he has stolen almost 20 laptops," the SP added.
 
 During the raid on Friday night, police recovered one pistol, two rounds of live ammunition, three master keys, 13 vehicle lock breaking tools, a number of stolen vehicle parts, a stolen motorcycle with fake number plate and a number of fake number plates of vehicles. Investigation is on to nab the entire gang involved in the racket, the SP said. 
 
 
