NEW DELHI:   leader   took to Twitter on Thursday to offer his take on the new security features to safeguard your   number, using a classic analogy to drive the point home.

 
 "Under compulsion, millions of persons have already shared Aadhaar number with many service providers. New security layer is like locking the stable after horses have bolted," Chidambaram tweeted.
 
 The former finance minister was implying that the Modi government was attempting to rectify their mistake after the damage had already been done.
 
  
  
 
 Yesterday, the   (UIDAI) unveiled a fresh layer of security to address concerns after it was reported that millions of Aadhaar numbers were vulnerable due to a major data breach. The new measures include a 'Virtual ID' to prevent the 12-digit number from being shared and a safety feature to ensure only need-based sharing of information, aimed at curtailing theft and misuse.
 
 However, the added security features failed to impress the opposition, which maintained that Aadhaar had become a tool for state surveillance of individuals.
 
 "Aadhaar commenced to enable RESIDENTS of India to access basic services thru an identity. Not designed to be a TOOL for big brother state to spy/ surveill & police people online & offline. That is what it has become. Classical Case of dual uses of Technology (sic)," said Congress spokesperson   in a tweet earlier in the day.
 
  
  
 
 He went on to question the need to verify the Aadhar number on every occasion that it is used, thereby defeating the original objective of being a convenience to people.
 
 "When you submit your Pan Card is it reverified wether genuine or a fake unless there is a complaint? Is your ration card reverified unless there is a complaint? Ans NO. Similarly why re-authenticate the Aadhar number everytime it is used (sic)," Tewari said.
 
  
  
 
 Former UIDAI chief   welcomed the two-layer security system to reinforce privacy protection for Aadhaar, while also hitting out at naysayers. Reacting to The Tribune report on the Aadhaar data breach, the   chairman claimed there was an "orchestrated campaign" to malign Aadhaar. He also asserted that Aadhaar is "here to stay".
 
