Q. What’s a day like in Tabu’s life...
Sometimes, a lot of work, sometimes, little... but there’s always something to do. For people who live in big cities even if they are not going for work, they are still working on something. What that ‘important’ work is though I don’t know. But everyone is very busy. Same applies to me. Half the day goes in talking over the phone, co-ordinating things, then setting reminders and attending to things I may have forgotten. In the middle of all this, if I have time and I’m in the mood, I go to the gym. But nothing is fixed about my schedule. The only thing that I do routinely is have my cup of tea leisurely for over an hour... And I’m pretty serious about this chai time.
 
  
  
 Q. How serious?
 Only after I’ve finished sipping my tea (a couple of cups at least) does my day begin. In the midst of my morning tea session, I don’t attend to anything else. It’s a precious time between my chai and me. No one better disturb…
 
 Q. You have started to appear in the social circle after a long silence…
 Hmmm... I don’t know why people have this serious image of me. I love house parties actually. I feel quite at home and enjoy being with friends. Professional appearances can be tiresome but I am willing to walk that extra mile for good friends. The nice thing about being in the industry for over two decades is that whether I drop by or not, friends like   always invite me to their homes. The industry is like my second home...
 
 Q. What was your secret for survival in this cut-throat industry?
 I think the competition is more rampant now. I have never had a secret ingredient. I have just gone with the flow, and when things had to fall in place, they did. When they had to go awry, they went that way.
 
 Q. But still, there must have been something that kept you going...
 There are many factors; at different stages of life, the driving force has been something different; my needs and desires have varied with time and age.
 
 Q. You were known to be very finicky in choosing directors, production houses...
 I’m still particular. Certain criteria have to be met before I sign on the dotted line. I should like the character and its development in the story. Is she making any impact? How are they positioning her? Most importantly, I have to be happy with who is making the film. I need to have trust in the director and the producer. It’s easy to write a script but most things depend on execution. If you have an established name who is directing it, I will close my eyes and do the role.
 I think maturity plays a huge part for any relationship to survive
 
 Q. What do you see when you look back on your two-and-a-half-decade career?
 There are so many happy memories. These moments pop up in my mind and bring a smile to my face. The best memories of my days is the time spent with friends. The energy we all had... Baap re! The best part was no one really had any hang ups because they were stars. You were just working and enjoying yourself.
 
 Travel is one of the biggest goodies that my profession has given me. I have always wanted to travel the world. And when we were growing up in Hyderabad, we had never thought it could be possible. My sister and I never knew we would become actresses and get this platform and this life – travel and exposure around the world, seeing various cultures and meeting different kinds were the greatest perks.
 
 The other thing is the love I have received from everyone in the fraternity. It’s a humbling experience.
 
 Q. Tell us about the impact Gulzar has had on your life...
 The association and relationship that I share with   has had the biggest impact on my life; something I cannot describe in words... He is the family that I made and cherish in the industry.
 
 Q. What does it take for a relationship to thrive in the industry?
 Every relationship needs time and patience. Understanding each other comes with time and age. I think maturity plays a huge part in any relationship to survive. I believe that some friendships take some work but giving up is never an option. The reason why some relationships have worked out is because of the lack of desire to control the other person or invade the other person’s innermost space. Basic respect for each other is important if you wish to continue in a relationship.
 
 My mother pointed out the other day that every friend has a different place in our lives. “Don’t expect the same thing from all your friends. You vibrate on a different level with the kinds of people you meet. In the end, only a few remain with whom you are together for a long, long time,” she said.
 
 Q. So, who is your 3 am friend?
 No one (laughs). They are all married now. I don’t want to disturb anyone at 3 am, they will think I am mad.   is my oldest friend in the industry. There is Shelly, whom I have known for 30 years now. My sister Farah is always there for me. She sleeps early at 10 pm, so I can’t disturb her at 3 am but she wakes up early, so I can call her then. Otherwise, I have friends all over in Hyderabad, Chennai… friends I can fall back on for anything.
 
 Q. How about  ... you share a great camaraderie with him?
 Ajay and I have known each other for over 20 years. He was my cousin Sameer Arya’s neighbour and a close buddy. Ajay has been a part of my growing up years. When I was young, Sameer and Ajay would spy on me and beat up any boy who was caught talking to me. They were like big bullies and I am mad at both of them for being responsible for my ‘single’ status in life.
 
