Nagpur: Sironcha, the remotest tehsil of Gadchiroli district infamous for Naxalite activities, has come into limelight for a different reason once again. A team of paleontologists, including international dinosaur experts, on Thursday discovered over 70 bones of dinosaurs of Jurassic age at Kotampalli, 400km from here. Fish and tree fossils were also found in the forest area. Dr Dhananjay Mohabey, former deputy director general of Geological Survey of India (GSI), revealed the bones are over 150-160 million years old. The fossilized body parts of the dinosaurs include well preserved claw, series of vertebrae (backbone) and broken limb bones like femur, humerus, tibia and radiale. “Some of the parts seem to be of juvenile dinosaurs,” he added. Dr Mohabey was on a visit to Waddham and Kotampalli along with Sironcha deputy conservator Tushar Chavan and international dinosaur experts Jeffrey A Wilson, assistant professor with department of geology in University of Michigan, Gregory P Wilson, associate professor with University of Washington, palaeobotanists Dr DK Kapgate and Nusrat Sheikh. The global experts were in the city for a workshop on ‘Deccan volcanism and tracking biotic changes including dinosaurs’ on January 16. The workshop, organized by the department of geology, Nagpur University, was followed by a five-day field excursion during which experts also visited some sites in Chhindwara and Betul in MP. While other participants left, the US experts were keen to visit Sironcha. “The Pranhita-Godavari basin in Sironcha is claimed to be India’s first dino site. Maharashtra Ecotourism Development Board (MDDB) has even sanctioned Rs83 lakh to develop a fossils park in Waddham, which is just 2km away from the present discovery site Kotampalli,” said DyCF Chavan. Dr Mohabey says the discovery of the first Indian dinosaur was made by Hislop in Pisdura (Maharashtra) in 1859. Later, complete skeletons were found in 1959 from Sironcha. One skeleton of dinosaur of Jurassic age — Barapasaurs Tagori — was discovered from Kotampalli and it is kept at the Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata. Later, another skeleton of Kotasaurus Yamanpalliensis species from Yamanpalli in (Telangana) was mounted in Birla Science Museum by GSI in Hyderabad. GSI is studying the fossils since 1998. Dr Mohabey says in 2015, a visit to the Kotampalli fossils site had yielded around 60 bones of dinosaurs that were kept in the forest office at Sironcha after preliminary study. “Even the bones discovered on Thursday will be studied and scientific description will be given,” the expert said. Wilson told TOI that based on his observations, the bones seem to be of a new Sauropod dinosaur. The team also visited other important fossil sites in Waddham Jurassic plant fossil park, presently managed by the forest department. Chavan said discussions were held with the team of paleontologists for further research on the dinosaur bones, development of fossil parks and other fossils and proposed museum and interpretation centre. “The team has offered to help and assist the forest department in this great scientific venture,” he said.