Chandigarh:   between the treasury benches and Opposition marked the second day of the Punjab budget session. Congress Gidderbaha MLA Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Leader of Opposition Sukhpal Singh Khaira indulged in a war of words with the former raising the issue of apology by AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal. Earlier, SAD’s Bikram Majithia slugged it out with Congress’ Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and welfare minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot on alleged non-disbursal of funds under the shagun scheme.

 Interestingly, Sunam AAP MLA Aman Arora reminded Warring of an apology by chief minister Amarinder Singh to Himachal BJP leader Prem Kumar Dhumal in 2013. Warring said that, “Their (AAP’s) Delhi leader kept looking for the right words for tendering an apology for the past one year. Don’t show double standards.” Referring to Khaira, he said, “Your leader is apologizing but you are not putting in your papers because you know that it will be accepted by your party leadership.”
 
 “Someone who has been summoned by a court has been asking those facing allegations on sand mines to resign. You resign from your post and face the trial,” said Warring. Khaira retorted, “Are you not aware of the law? The summons has been stayed and the matter is subjudice. I do not mind giving up hundred posts like the post of Leader of Opposition. I am willing to face a probe by the CBI or any other agency,” he said. Warring added that before the probe you must resign.
 
 Arora pointed out to the apology tendered by Amarinder to Dhumal in a defamation case that was filed after a speech by the former at a poll rally in Hamirpur in 2003, besides another central senior Congress leader who had apologized to the RSS in the past. “I am a true solder of AAP and Arvind Kejriwal. Rival parties have been raising the issue of Kejriwal’s apology. Why has the Congress forgiven SAD for the past one year despite being at the helm,” he said.
 
 Warring said Khaira should talk on the issue of drugs only if he resigns from his post. “Former irrigation minister Rana Gurjit had resigned merely on the basis of allegations. AAP seeks resignation on any issue,” he said and accused Khaira of using foul language against Amarinder during the past session.
 
 During question hour, Majithia was not satisfied by welfare minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot’s reply on funds distributed under the shagun scheme. He wanted to know the number of beneficiaries between March, 2017, and December, 2017. Dharamsot said the state government had cleared the outstanding disbursals left by the SAD-BJP government. After SAD president Sukhbir Badal too wanted an exact figure of beneficiaries from Dharamsot, Majithia accused the minister of misleading the House and demanded his resignation.
 
 Later, Khaira wanted to talk about an STF report on drug trade during zero hour but it was pointed out that the matter was subjudice.
 
 
