NEW DELHI:   on Wednesday claimed that the   had failed on all fronts in the last three years.  , accompanied by former chief minister  , addressed a press meet where he compared the work of the previous government with that of the current dispensation. Together, the two — at the loggerhead for years — released a report titled “3 Saal, Dilli Behaal”. 

 Maken accused chief minister   of not fulfilling any of his poll promises. Criticising the CM for not bringing a strict Lokpal Bill, he said: “In 2014, when they (AAP) got 28 seats, they resigned within 49 days, alleging that Congress and BJP were not allowing them to bring a proper lokpal. But when they came back in 2015 with 67 seats, they brought a different lokpal, instead of a strict lokpal,” he said.
 
 
 Maken claimed that nearly 98,000 students had left Delhi government schools in the last two years. As many as 111 dispensaries were shut during the same period, he added. “While DTC ridership has gone down, metro fares have been hiked twice in the same year,” Maken said. He claimed that while 3,125 DTC buses were added during the Sheila Dikshit regime, the current government had pulled out 1,200 from roads. “Development has taken a back seat and the focus is more on advertisements. While AAP promised to eradicate corruption, most of its leaders have been charged with corruption,” Maken alleged. 
  
  
 With an eye on the next elections, Maken took the blame for the rift among senior Delhi Congress leaders. He said: “It’s my fault and I will correct it. Had we been together like this, we would have won the civic elections.”
 
 Dikshit, too, slammed the government, saying people were now calling it an “advertisement-ki-sarkar”. She said: “They (AAP government) are seen talking, but their work is invisible.” Sitting next to Maken, whose leadership she had criticised during the civic election last year, Dikshit avoided questions on campaigning for the party and its future chief ministerial candidate. Maken, meanwhile, also hit out on alleged failures of the AAP government in transport, health, education and other sectors.
 
 
  
  
 
