RAJKOT: Fishermen in   can expect to get cheaper loans easily with finance minister Arun Jaitley extending the Kisan credit card facility to fishing and animal husbandry. 

 For long, the fishing community seeking working capital has been exploited by traders who don’t just charge them high interest rates but also give them loans on a pre-condition that they would sell their fish catch to them for less than the market price. 
 
 For example, a group of 10 fishermen go into deep sea to get a good catch. The trip lasts from 10 days to one month depending on the size of the fishing boat and they incur expenses for food and fuel. The minimum diesel requirement for a single trip is around Rs 1.5 to Rs 2 lakh. They have to stock food and other necessary items for survival in the sea. They also have to arrange for ice to keep fish stock fresh and need good quality nets which need maintenance. For all this, the group needs working capital before going into sea. Currently, there is no formal channel from where they can get credit. Even banks don’t provide them loans for the fishing activity like farmers get for crops.
 
 According to the prevailing tradition, they take advance money from a fish traders for use as working capital in exchange of promise to sell him the whole catch of the trip. Many traders exploit them and pay Rs 10 to Rs 15 per kg less than market price, which results in big loss for fishermen.
 
 Bharat Modi, Porbandar Fishermen Association, said, “According to rough estimates, fishermen end up paying additional Rs 25,000 over the interest on say a Rs 3 lakh loan. The kisan credit card will help fishermen get money for working capital easily. Diesel is the main expense and fishermen will be able to buy fuel using this credit card.”
 
 Tulsi Gohil, president of   said, “At present, none of the banks provide us working capital and traders and suppliers exploit us. If fishermen actually become beneficiaries of the kisan credit card, we won’t have to pay more to traders. We will be able to sell to those traders from whom we will get competitive rate and this will increase our income.” 
 
 Velji Masani, chairman of Gujarat Fisheries Central Cooperative Association Ltd (GFCCAL), said, “Extending kisan credit card to fishermen is the biggest provision in this budget to boost fisheries. This will change the life of a fisherman as he will be able to get   from government banks. He will also have enough cash to maintain the fishing vessels during four off-season months in monsoon.”
 
 Though kisan credit card has been largely welcomed, one long-pending demand of the community has not been addressed. Gopal Fofandi, president of  , said, “We had demanded the right to do farming just like farmers as an alternative source of income during off-season. Farmers come into our profession after taking a crop as there is no restriction. But we can’t do farming.”
 
 
