Trichy: The forest department is just one short of recording 100 butterfly species at the butterfly conservatory at Srirangam in the district. A few days ago, the conservatory recorded its 99th species - a Brown Owl.  Inaugurated in 2015, the conservatory was raised in the Trichy forest division with an aim to spread awareness on the link between butterflies and nature through conservation and education. At the time of inauguration, only 38 butterfly species were spotted. “No new butterfly species were spotted over the past few weeks until the brown owl was seen,” a forest official said. The summer showers over the past one week have made the environment conducive to spot more species, he added.  The conservatory, spread over 25 acres, has been raised with eucalyptus trees and prosopis juliflora and has been converted into an ecosystem for these winged beauties. In order to maintain the humidity levels at the facility, two water fountains, two waterfalls and a pond have been established. Butterflies have a lifespan of only a few days and are seasonal and migratory by nature as they cannot be spotted in all climatic conditions. “Most of the butterflies in the Trichy region come from Western Ghats. Introducing host and nectar plants in large numbers in the conservatory has helped attract many of the butterfly species,” said a senior forest official at the butterfly conservatory.  A Thangamani, a junior research fellow appointed by the forest department, said that butterfly species like Blue Mormon found in the conservatory recently have come from the nearby Patchamalai hills.  Another butterfly species, Crimson Rose, also spotted at the conservatory, can travel over 2,000 miles, she said, adding that butterflies travel all the way to Sri Lanka crossing the sea from Rameswaram.  Trichy forest division has been contemplating expanding the facility by spending another Rs 30 to Rs 40 lakh on developing the floral and medicinal gardens at the conservatory. “A proposal is being prepared to seek funds from the state government to develop another water stream at the conservatory along with developing floral garden that will attract more butterfly species. A medicinal garden will also be raised in the underutilised portions of the garden,” said a senior official from the forest department.