LUCKNOW: After announcing 25 fast-track courts on Ambedkar anniversary to deal with cases related to scheduled caste and tribes, the   government — with an eye on the 2019 Lok   polls —is leaving no stone unturned to ensure that Central and state schemes reach areas with high Dalit population. Under the  , which is taking place from April 14 to May 5 across rural UP, CM Yogi Adityanath has told officials to specifically ensure that areas with a high density of SC/ST residents are “saturated” with government schemes.
 
 A ‘sabka saath, sabha vikas’ yatra will also be taken out during this period for which the CM has asked officials to draw up a chart to ensure that no village is left out. He has further said that all eligible persons from the SC/ST category should get gas connections under the Ujjwala scheme during this time, free power connections, Aadhaar and assistance in opening bank accounts under the Prime Minister’s  .
 
 
 “Because the programme has been proposed by the Centre, it should be handled on priority. On the occasion of National Panchayati Raj day on April 24, arrangements should be made to broadcast the PM’s address live to all villages,” he said.
 
 The CM has issued strict directions that at every level of the programme, the MP, MLA and other elected representatives must be invited and their attendance be ensured. Chaupals are to be held in all villages to make the programme successful and officers have been told to ensure that there is no power cut during a chaupal.
 
 
 
 Officials will have to stay the night in the villages during this time, establish dialogue with locals and ensure that all programmes being implemented through this campaign reach everyone.
 
 “All programmes to be overseen by the concerned divisional commissioner and a report is to be submitted to the government. If any official is found lax or does not ensure the best implementation of the campaign, the government can take action against them,” said a senior government official.
 
 During this period, the government will observe special days and ensure that programmes related to the topic are discussed. Among these are Social Justice Day on April 14, Swachh Bharat Diwas on April 18, Ujjwala Divas on April 20, National Panchayati Raj Day on April 24, Ayushman Bharat Divas on April 30, Kisan Kalyan Divas on May 2 and Livlihood Day on May 5.
 
 
 
