NAGPUR: While rejecting appeal of   ( ), the   of Bombay High Court asked it to pay Rs5.67 lakh compensation to wife and son of a man, who was killed in the accident after being hit by a speeding Maruti Omni vehicle. The amount is to be paid along with the 8% interest from December 12, 2009.

 Slightly modifying the Bhandara Motor Accident Claims Tribunal’s (MACT) orders, Justice Manish Pitale struck down company’s contentions that the driver of killer vehicle, made as one of the respondents in the case, was acquitted from the criminal proceedings in this case, and hence compensation needs to be reduced. 
 
 “I find that the driver’s acquittal wouldn’t adversely affect the right of deceased’s family to claim compensation before tribunal under the provisions of Motor Vehicles (MV) Act, 1988. In any case, his acquittal in criminal proceedings would not be beneficial to either him or the company, to avoid liability initiated under the MV Act while seeking compensation,” the judge said.
 
 On December 24, 2008, Shrawan Nagdeve was hit by the speeding vehicle driven by Narendra Selokar when we was on morning walk, where he suffered head injuries and died on the spot. His wife Kantabai and son Dipak lodged an FIR and driver was prosecuted under Sections 279, 337, 338 and 304A of IPC and 184 of the MV Act. The mother-son also then filed a plea before MACT claiming compensation of Rs5 lakh from NICL and also driver. 
 
 While allowing their case, the MACT asked the company to pay Rs6.10 lakh to them, which was challenged in the HC.
 
 The NICL contended that the tribunal committed an error in appreciating the effect of driver’s acquittal from the proceedings, as he denied the involvement of his vehicle in the accident. It also argued that the calculation of deceased’s monthly income by tribunal is based on conjectures and surmises and, therefore, there is an error in the total amount of compensation.
 
 Justice Pitale, while justifying the MACT’s decision, said when it was proved that the offending vehicle was actually driven through the road on which the incident took place, there was no reason to hold that it wasn’t involved in the incident.
 
 “The deceased was running a shop ‘Dipak Book Depot and General Stores’ and his wife had deposed about it in her evidence. She also claimed that he was earning about Rs10,000/per month. Although there was lack of documentary evidence, the tribunal’s finding that his monthly income could be taken at Rs6,000/month can’t be said to be erroneous. However, as per Supreme Court’s orders, the MACT’s verdict is required to be modified and amount needs to be reduced by 70,000,” the court said.
 
 
