DEHRADUN: Medicos in the states hailed the Union budget 2018-19 for taking the first step toward universal coverage by announcing a health coverage worth Rs 5 lakh per family for 50 crore people per year for secondary and tertiary hospitalization.
 
  At present, under the Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana (RSBY) the Centre gives Rs 30,000 as health insurance for families coming from economically weaker background, but the amount is inappropriate and insufficient for surgical procedures, sources said.
  
  Dr  , chairman of Hospital Board of India (IMA Uttarakhand chapter), said, “Ensuring a healthy society is the first step towards realizing the dream of a developed nation. The budget emphasized on the health of the downtrodden, which is the need of the hour. The budget has given them a huge respite.”
  
  It was also announced that 24 government medical colleges or hospitals will be added by upgrading the existing district hospitals. Hence, there will be at least one government medical college or hospital in each state and every three parliamentary constituencies.
  
  Meanwhile, some medical experts raised doubts over the pace of implementation of the health projects as announced in the budget. Dr  , honorary-general secretary, IMA-Uttarakhand chapter, said, “It is excellent to have one medical college in every third parliamentary constituency. But the country is reeling under doctor crunch, so from where will it bring the medical fraternity required to teach the students? And it takes at least three years to set up a district-level hospital/medical college. So this seems a long term dream.”
  
  Union finance minister   also announced exemption of interest income and raised the limit of deduction for health insurance. The senior citizens would get exemption up to Rs 50,000 of interest income on bank and post office deposits. The latest provision also applies to fixed and recurring deposits. “This is a commendable announcement and it will actually make every elderly lead a life of dignity, Khanna added.
  
  The minister also added that the government will set up 1.5 lakh health and wellness centres or community healthcare clinics across the country under Bharat Ayushman Programme that will provide treatment for non-communicable diseases.
