Pune: For many women drivers in the city, more than the ordeal of driving thorough disorderly traffic, the intimidation and altercations with men behind the wheel if they overtake, brush against the car or brake to stop, is disconcerting. 

 An SUV driver manhandled a woman after crashing into her car at a traffic junction near Pune Sub Area Command headquarters last Monday. The woman had stopped at the junction when the signal turned red.
 
 Many women drivers say they follow traffic rules diligently, avoid jumping signals and stop before the zebra crossings at junctions. But they are called bad drivers and abused or honked at rudely. Usually, they said, they don’t engage in quarrels with belligerent drivers, but if they do, it quickly turns ugly with passers-by standing as spectators when they can see the wrong-doer in plain sight.
 
 Academician Meena Mundada said, “The minute men see a car with a woman driver overtaking them, they think that by default they need to get ahead, be given the right of way and step on the pedal. Many men assume women cannot drive well. I have been driving for six years and have learned to look the other way.”
 
 For women, a staredown is common. So much so, that many women have now started to ignore them. Amita O’Brien, recalled an incident when a group of men threatened her. 
 
 
  
  
 
 “This incident will always stay in my mind. A group of men in the car were driving fast, cutting lanes and almost getting into an accident. Once they overtook me, they threw empty water bottles on the road. An old person ahead of me swerved to avoid the bottle hitting his windscreen. This made me go after them and tell them that they were endangering others’ lives by their behaviour. They not only abused me but also tried to hit my car from the side. This wasn’t just a case of intimidation but proper hooliganism on the road,” O’Brien said.
 
 Head of the sociology department at  , Sunita Gupta, said, “Driving was considered a male domain decades ago. Now, women drive well and safely. In all probability, their efficiency, caution and adherence to rules hurt some men who get down to violence or intimidation on the road.”
 
  said it is funny when people try to prove that genetically women can’t drive as well as men. “They swear that 9 out of 10 drivers who make mistakes are women,” she added. 
 
 Saba Poonawala said she observed traffic rules to the T. Sometime ago, I was at a signal and switched on the indicator to turn right. Two men zipping on the bike tried to overtake me at the turning and hit my car. They abused me thinking that a lone woman wouldn’t be able to do much. But I stood my ground despite the damaged car and when they realised that they could not go to far with their approach, they speed away.”
 
 Deputy commissioner of police Jyoti Priya Singh of the Foreigners Registration Office said women drivers, if intimidated or threatened on the road, can call up the police control room. 
 
 “Honking is an offence, it is a part of eve teasing. Some patience is required while waiting for the signal and there cannot be any honking when the signal is red. honking is part of eve teasing,” she said. 
 
 Men must change their mentality. Secondly, rules should be followed no matter if the driver is a man or a woman. Thirdly, women should always report such incidents to the control room, she said. “Everybody is short of time these days, so they can simply note down the vehicle number of the offender and report it online on the website. It will also check men who are involved in such offences,” she added. 
 
 Brinda Sahota tried some humour to get past the unpleasant situation. “I was making a U-turn on   in Koregaon Park, and a motorcyclist was blocking the way. Instead of giving way, he looked at me and started abusing. I rolled down my window and smiled at him and said, ‘Kya hua, din kharab chal raha hai kya ?   seekho bhai.” The guy smiled and showed me the peace sign,” she said.
 
 Kaumudi Joglekar Phadnis’s experience was unnerving. “The car driver entered a no-entry lane. His car was bigger than mine and he kept accelerating, indirectly threatening to ram into me. I refused to budge and he touched my car’s bumper. My child was in the car. When he got worked up and continued to abuse me, I reversed. Even so, he zoomed past abusing me,” she said.
 
 
