PANAJI: BJP national president Amit Shah’s meeting with booth workers and his exhortation for 35 seats in the state assembly indicated that the BJP was gearing up for mid-term elections in the state, the   said hereon Monday.

 Criticizing Shah’s silence on the Mhadei water dispute between Goa and Karnataka, the state Congress unit also said that the local BJP leadership should come out with a clear stand on the possibility of sharing water from the Mhadei basin with Karnataka for irrigation purposes.
 
 “On one side   asked booth workers to give the BJP 35 seats and on the other hand he says the current government will complete its five-year term, these are contradictory statements,” Goa Pradesh Congress Committee spokesman Siddhanath Buyao said. “The meeting with booth karyakartas appears to be a preparation for mid-term polls.”
 
 The Congress called for a press conference at the party office to slam Shah’s silence on issues that were pertinent to Goa. 
 
 “Amit Shah said that of the 40 assembly seats, the BJP wants 35 seats,” Congress spokesperson Amarnath Panjikar said. “Elections have just got over and the government has completed just one year. Does this mean that they don’t trust the current government?”
 
  Congress questioned Shah’s silence on rising fuel prices, inflation, and mining closure. “On the issue of mining, the BJP keeps talking about seeking relief from the courts. The government at the centre and at the state is with the BJP, all the departments are with the BJP, why can’t they come up with a solution?” Panjikar said.
 
 The Congress is counting on all these issues working against BJP in the Lok Sabha elections and in the assembly elections if snap polls are called.
 
 “If by their estimate assembly elections come early, the BJP will get just four seats. And if Amit Bhai and Narendra Bhai come, then with their jumlebaaz, they will get six seats and nothing more,” Panjikar said.
 
 If by their estimate assembly elections come early, the BJP will get just four seats. And if Amit Bhai and Narendra Bhai come, then with their jumlebaaz, they will get six seats and nothing more
 
 
