PANAJI: In a significant order, the   on Friday sought “full details” about the iron   mining that has taken place between February 7 and March 15, 2018. On February 7, the Supreme Court cancelled the second renewal of 88   leases and gave the leaseholders time till March 15 to “manage their affairs”.

 The Supreme Court also took note of the allegation made by Goa Foundation that rampant mining took place after February 7 till March 15. In a three-page order, the two-judge bench of justices Madan B Lokur and Deepak Gupta observed: “We would like to have full details about the mining that has taken place during the period from February 7, 2018 till March 15, 2018. We make it clear that there will be no movement of iron ore until further orders except the iron ore which has reached the jetties.”
 
 The mining company lawyers argued that the iron ore, which is sought to be loaded on the vessels in the port area in Goa, is royalty-paid and it was removed and brought to the jetties on or before March 15.
 
 The Supreme Court directed the state government to ensure and confirm that only that iron ore is loaded (on the barges and vessels), which is royalty-paid and which is lying on the jetties on or before March 15.
 
 The apex court also allowed some of the mining companies—V M Salgaocar, Chowgule & Co Pvt Ltd and another—to transport royalty-paid ore that was lying on the jetties on or before March 15. 
 
 These three companies had not approached the Supreme Court seeking permission to transport royalty-paid ore.
 
 Earlier, some of the companies had approached the Supreme Court and got an order in their favour to transport royalty-paid ore after the high court of Bombay at Goa had banned its transportation. The state government on March 21 had given permission to the mining companies to transport royalty-paid ore after March 15.
 
 On May 4, the high court had set aside the state government’s decision to permit transportation of royalty-paid iron ore after March 15. It ruled that excavations could not have continued “even for a second” after the Supreme Court cancelled the mining leases on February 7 and those operations were “illegal”.
 
 Castigating the state government for disregarding the “interest of average Goans and the state’s ecology”, the two-judge bench of justices N M Jamdar and Prithviraj K Chavan said in their 115-page order: “Undue focus was given on receipt of royalty, which was pittance compared to what was lost by the state.”
 
 The Supreme Court has sought replies from the state government and the petitioners, Goa Foundation, and listed the matter for hearing in July third week.
 
 
