NOIDA: The workers’ union at the Noida   has lodged a protest against directions by the Security Printing and Minting Corporation of India Limited ( ) to stop production of coins as of January 9, 2018.

 The nearly 300 workers at the mint have lambasted RBI for its coin distribution policies, and urged the Centre to look into their grievances. They fear that with the halting of coin production, they may be handed pink slips as they will have no work. 
 
 The union has threatened to take to the streets and intensify their protest if their voices are not heard. Workers alleged there are around 1,300 million pieces (mpcs) of coins already manufactured, waiting to be picked up by RBI from its storage rooms.
 
 On January 9, GoI mints across the country — in Hyderabad, Mumbai, Kolkata and Noida — halted manufacturing coins, after RBI slowed down the process of lifting coins from their respective storages, following directions from SPMCIL. “As of January 8, an inventory of 2,528 mpcs of circulation coins is waiting to be picked up from the mints,” read the Noida mint’s notice. “In compliance with direction received from SPMICL, production of circulation coins shall be stopped immediately. The mint will now follow normal working hours without any overtime, with effect from January 9,” it continued.
 
 G P  , general manager of the Noida mint, told TOI the decision to halt production was taken by the government. “We’re abiding by the directions,” he said. “Workers are getting their wages even though production has stopped. They should not fear retrenchment, as the measure is temporary,” he added.
 
 The SPMCIL direction, however, has not been well received by Noida mint employees, who allege that all the mints will face financial loss and could be pushed into becoming a sick industry if finished coins are not lifted and the current year’s indent is reduced. “We had a target of minting 4,250 mpcs of coins in four denominations — Re 1, Rs 2, Rs 5 and Rs 10 — from RBI for financial year 2017-18,” said  , president of Mint Shramik Sangh, Noida, who has been working at the Noida mint for over three of the four decades since it came into existence. “However, RBI has only lifted 2,200 mpcs of coins so far, and we still have 1,300 mpcs in stock,” he explained. “In the last three months, RBI has not lifted any coins. Now, we’ve been asked to stop production. We fear if production is not resumed, we’ll soon be without jobs,” he added.
 
 Union members alleged that all four mints will incur losses during the current financial year because of RBI’s inconsistent projections and indents. They demanded the government take concrete steps, pick up the manufactured coins from their storage rooms, and put them in circulation. “In the last financial year, Noida mint recorded a profit of Rs 255 crore,” said Jayan A, general secretary of the union. “This sudden halting of production won’t create a shortage of coins, but will affect the livelihood of employees,” he lamented, adding the issue requires the finance ministry’s intervention.
 
 The RBI has refused to comment on the issue.
 
 
