NEW DELHI: Enclosures at the   that had been lying empty for decades will soon be filled with a host of animals set to arrive over the next few months. 

 Starting with a male ostrich, the zoo will also become the home of a spectacled caiman, goral, fishing cat, smooth Indian otter and a leopard cat — the species last seen here over a decade ago. The authorities are waiting for the final approval from   ( ) for a few of these animals. They are also talking to many zoological parks, including those abroad, to bring in a zebra, giraffe and a kangaroo.
 
 While a golden jackal has already arrived from Rajasthan, zoo officials said other animals would be brought in over the next few months with temperatures rising in the capital. “We waited this winter as a lot of the animals couldn’t have acclimatised easily, especially the ones coming from south India,” said Renu Singh, Delhi zoo director. 
 
 The animals are being brought in as part of an exchange programme that is being undertaken with the help of CZA and can take place once two zoological parks agree to swap animals. The spectacled caiman and the ostrich will be brought in from the Thiruvananthapuram zoo, with a brahminy kite, rhea, barn owl and a bonnet macaque likely to follow. In return, the Delhi zoo will send a white tiger to Thiruvananthapuram, officials said.
 
 Similarly, the fishing cat and the leopard cat will be brought in from the Tripura zoo in exchange of animals surplus in Delhi, such as Indian peafowls, hog deer and Indian palm civets. Officials said both cats were last seen at the Delhi zoo over a decade ago.
 
 “We are also looking at exotic animals like kangaroos and chimpanzees. The Delhi zoo has not received an animal from abroad in a very long time and we want to revive that tradition. The files will be sent to CZA once both parties agree upon an animal,” said Singh.
 
 The authorities said the exchange programme also aimed at finding partners for single animals, particularly the rhino, leopard and the hornbill. The Delhi zoo currently has around 20 animals that don’t have a mating partner, officials said.
 
 
  
 
 
