HYDERABAD: The   (TSPSC) has issued revised hall tickets for the Teacher Recruitment Test (TRT) candidates on Wednesday, February 21, 2018, after a section of candidates requested to have  .

 The TRT is scheduled to be held from February 25 to 27. The TSPSC issued hall tickets for the language pandit and school assistant positions in TRT on February 19.
  
  
 Following representations from a section of candidates, the TSPSC put up a notice saying: “Utmost efforts were made to allot centres nearest to the district of residence. As a majority of CBRT centres are in HMDA area, it is inevitable to allow centres in HMDA to candidates from across the state. Nearly 50% of candidates are appearing for both FN (forenoon) and AN (afternoon) sessions. They were adjusted in the same centre on first priority. Therefore all the candidates are requested to co-operate & re-download hall tickets from 11am, 21-02-2018 onwards.”
 
 In a media conference held on Wednesday, Ghanta Chakrapani, TSPSC chairman said the hall tickets for the remaining examinations shall be issued on Thursday. “The Centre for Good Governance did not follow the format for hall tickets. Now all the issues related to exam centres are resolved. Excess candidates at one centre, have been shifted to other nearby centres,” said Chakrapani, adding that all the exam centres are in HMDA limits.
 
 Following the Hyderabad High Court orders, the TSPSC is making arrangement to conduct the exam for the physical education teacher posts in English. “Apart from this, majority exams will be held in the online mode. Therefore, results can be expected early,” said Chakrapani.
 
 The TSPSC for the first time will conduct the teacher recruitment test (TRT) for 31 districts for school assistant, language pandit and secondary grade teacher posts in government schools, zilla praja parishad schools and mandal praja parishad schools.
 
 The exam is expected to fill 8,792 teacher posts in government-run schools. Of the 8,792 vacancies announced, 5,415 are for secondary grade teacher, 1,941 for school assistants, 1,011 for language pandits, 416 for physical education teachers and nine for school assistants (physical education).
 
