KOLKATA: The   Metro station, managed by women employees, was declared the best-kept — among the 24 in the existing north-south network — by   general manager Ajay Vijayvargiya during the 63rd Railway Week celebrations on Thursday.

 The Netaji Bhavan station was declared an all-women station on March 8 this year to commemorate International Women’s Day. Since then, all staffers — including the station superintendent, shift incharge, booking clerks, security personnel, station porter, cleaners, point operator and commercial porter — are women.
 
 “We do our best to keep all stations and trains clean. After inspecting all stations, our GM decided that Netaji Bhavan was the best kept. Things have certainly changed after the women took charge nearly a month ago. Even passengers have appreciated that such change took place in one of the oldest stations in the Metro network,”   CPRO   said. On October 24, 1984, the country’s first Metro train ran between the Esplanade and ‘Bhowanipur’ stations. Later, ‘Bhowanipur’ was named Netaji Bhavan due to its proximity to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s ancestral home. The station has 30 women employees who work in two shifts. The daily footfall at the station is 13,00-15,000.
 
 “I think Netaji Bhavan station is the only all-women Metro station in the country. It’s a very happy station. After the two suicides attempts on Tuesday and Wednesday, several passengers were stranded at all stations in the network. Many of them noted that the situation was best managed at Netaji Bhavan with regular announcements. Others said how station staffers rush in to provide first aid whenever passengers suffer minor injuries. There have also been instances when elderly people have complained of discomfort and have been helped by station staffers,” Banerjee added.
 
 Vijayvargiya also distributed shields, cash awards, medals and certificates to other Metro employees. Motorman Balaram Paul was awarded for his quick action in saving a life at Gitanjali station on April 2, 2017. The commuter had jumped in front of Paul’s train but he applied brakes just before the wheels reached the spot.
 
