JAIPUR: Residents living under the   (JMC) and waiting for approval of building plan since long can heave a sigh of relief. The corporation has decided to organise camps from June 1, in which permission will be provided on the same day of filing application. A   official informed TOI, “These camps will be organised zone-wise. Permission to construct residential buildings on 500 square metre plot up to the height of 8 metre will be provided to the applicant during the camps.”

 The residents who do not have lease deed of the house can also apply for the building plan approval. However, it would be mandatory for them to submit an affidavit. Sources in the department said, “Ironically, residents of the city do not take permission to construct residential houses as most of the people fear process is tedious.”
 
 During the buildings planning approval committee meeting on Tuesday, city mayor   pulled the officials for not issuing permission on time. The mayor sought a detailed project report from officials on number of building approval cases pending since January and action taken on the illegal construction. In the meeting it was revealed, out of total received applications, the JMC officials have given construction permission to only 50 percent of the applicants.
 
 To provide relief to the residents of the city, the JMC has earlier launched   Building Plan Approval System ( ), an initiative under the Smart Raj project. Even after eight months the awarded firm has failed to implement this system. This is the second time that the online service has failed to take off after the launch.
 
 At the time of launch, the residents were assured that they won’t have to undergo the tormenting bureaucratic processes for acquiring several licences and approvals from different departments. An official source said, “The project was first launched on June 8, 2016. However, many local bodies highlighted practical problems in implementing the online system. Thereafter, the BPAS was again launched on October 1, 2017, following directions from the state government. It has been nearly eight months now, but there is no progress on this front.”
 
 
