KOCHI: The   (MVD) with the help of police booked around 269 vehicles for illegally using air horns during a special inspection conducted on Wednesday. According to officials simultaneous inspections were carried out in Ernakulam town, Kochi, Tripunithura, Aluva, Angamaly, North Paravoor, Mattanchery, Muvattupuzha, Perumbavoor and Kothamangalam. 

 Goods vehicles, especially inter – state vehicles were booked the most for violating the air horn rule. The illegally fitted equipment (air horns) was removed from these vehicles and were later released, said an MVD official.
 
 The drive in Kochi was led by RTO   and city police commissioner  . In Muvattupuzha, the inspection was carried out by RTO AK Sasikumar and in Aluva by rural SP AV George.
 
 RTO Reji P Varghese said that in the coming days too inspections will be carried out to book offenders who use air horns and multi tone horns.
 
 “Though the Kerala high court has banned the use of air horns in 2005, vehicle owners are reluctant to follow the directive. They would remove the high decibel air horns while subjecting vehicles for fitness test and refit the same again after obtaining fitness certificate. The department imposes a fine of Rs.1000 for first time offenders and Rs.2000 for second time offenders, the officials said. The   said that 619 vehicles were booked for flouting various motor vehicle regulation act and rules and a fine of around Rs 404550 were collected. 
 
 Meanwhile,   has asked the transport commissioner and state police chief to seize those vehicles using air horns and take stringent legal action against the offenders.
 
 Commission acting chairman P. Mohanadas in his directive stated that the vehicle permit and license of repeated offenders should be cancelled. The directive states that measures should be taken to curb the sale of air horns.
 
 In a report submitted by the additional chief secretary to the commission, it has been stated that air horns that can produce sounds of up to 135 decibels can cause hearing impairment and poses a health hazard by creating noise pollution. It also stated continuous exposure to 90 decibels or above can also cause damage.
 
