If your emotions are uniquely Indian, shouldn’t your emoticons keep up? Sometimes, Unicode’s salsa dancer just doesn’t cut it — you need 
  doing the bhangra to show what you mean.

 A slew of desi apps is filling the need for culturally-specific emojis. Desi emoticon startups like Bobble Keyboard,   and Indian Emoticons have livened up Indian keyboards with gifs of bhangra dancers, the  , speeding autorickshaws or pani-puri sellers. Design and lifestyle product startup Chumbak recently tied up with Facebook to provide desi sticker packs with messages like ‘badhai ho’ and ‘enthu cutlet’.
 
 “As trends flood social media, whether it’s the Virushka romance or T20 cricket, users create their own stickers in real time,” says  , CEO, Bobble Keyboard. The emojis are based on typically Indian phrases like ‘Horn Not Ok Please’, or ‘Tirunelveli halwa’ (a popular Tamil phrase about getting duped), or ‘clean bowled’.
 
 
 
 Given India’s obsession with cricket, cinema and elections, the use of desi emojis surges during such events. Specially created emoticons are also used to promote movies and celebrities. “For those steeped in   or regional movies, desi emoticons are a way to express themselves creatively,” says Ankit.
 The crossover success of movies like   has helped widen the market for Bollywood star emoticons and gifs. A few months ago, when the Vijay-Mersal controversy broke out, Twitter users were delighted to find a dedicated emoji for the movie. By the weekend, more than 40,000 users had tweeted the emoji.
 “We have about 8 million customers in India, most of whom communicate in regional languages. We’re available for 22 languages, including Tamil, Hindi, Marathi and Gujarati,” says Ankit. His company has about 15 million users around the world, and is eyeing Southeast Asian markets.
 
 Another startup Emojifi has a repository based on film dialogues, idioms and slang. It has developed a platform with one lakh templates for brands to use, and has partnered with Sunny Leone. “Since millennials use emojis and gifs to communicate, brands want to leverage them,” says Mahesh Gogineni, co-founder of Emojifi. Travel portal Goibibo, for instance, lets users choose seats via a bot on WhatsApp, and uses heart emojis to show seat layouts.
 
  
  
 
 Compatibility is key to the success of these apps, meaning they can be sent and seen across Twitter, Facebook, Hike, WhatsApp and other messaging platforms. “Earlier, messaging apps had their own emoticon directory. We wanted our products to be platform-agnostic,” says Ankit.
 
 Apart from popularising brands or coasting on social media trends, emoticons can also make things special. For instance, it let 26-year-old Martin Chinnappa make a “digital fairytale” out his wedding proposal. He created an emoticon of himself, and in a ‘Love Actually’-style proposal, “my digital self took her through a series of placards that told her about my love before I finally popped the question. And she said yes.”
 
