SHIMLA: Hoisting of national flag, presentation of cultural programmes, exhibitions and march past by contingents from police, home guards, NCC, NSS and Scouts and Guides marked the celebrations of 71st   across the state on Sunday. Himachal had come into existence on April 15, 1948, with the merging of 30 princely states.
 
 The day was celebrated at state, district and sub-division level. The state-level programme was shifted from Indora in Kangra to Shimla after school bus accident incident in Kangra district in which 27, including 23 children, were killed.
 
 Chief minister   unfurled the national flag at the historic Ridge in Shimla. He congratulated people of the state on development of Himachal in last 70 years. He said the state will continue to develop in all fields including, education, health and basic infrastructure.
 
 “The state will soon get five new helipads. DPR of 123 new roads has been prepared. Rs 100 crore have been sanctioned for tarring and maintenance of the roads. The Centre had sanctioned 69 national highways for Himachal but the previous government failed to prepare DPR of these projects. We have prepared the DPR of the projects and works will start soon,” he said.
 
 While addressing public gathering, he said that via the ‘CM dashboard’, all important departments have been linked to bring efficiency in administration. He said the officers and employees were being encouraged to think out of the box and prepare new and innovative schemes. He added that the 2018-19 budget presented by him had 30 new schemes for welfare of all sections of people which was a record in itself.
 
 “Abut 1.3 lakh elderly have benefitted after state government lowered the eligibility age of senior citizens for getting pension without income limit from 80 to 70. Safety and security of women and maintain better law and order is our priority. “Gudiya Helpline and Shakti Button App have been launched so that women in crisis could inform police immediately through the new technology based facility. Similarly, Hoshiar Singh Helpline is started to deal with forest, mining and drug mafia in Himachal,” the CM said.
 
 Addressing huge gathering, the CM said   would be started under which ideal schools would be set up with hostel facility in phased manner in each assembly constituency and 2,000 posts of paramedical staff would be filled shortly. The state government has launched Himachal Grihani Suvidha scheme to provide financial support to the women for purchasing   connection who have not been covered under the Ujjawala Yojana of the Centre.
 
 To promote institutional deliveries, state has launched Mukhyamantri Aashirwad Yojana where a kit of Rs 1,500 is being provided to newborn which is in addition to Rs 700 already being in such cases, the CM said. He also talked about steps taken to diversify agricultural activities, strengthen irrigational facilities and promote zero budget natural and organic farming besides implementation of   scheme at cost of Rs 25 crore. He also said that Himachal will soon become industrial hub of the country and 17 new industrial units involving investment of Rs 456.43 crore have been approved under single-window mechanism in recent time.
 
 On this occasion, the CM gave the civil service award to Kullu deputy commissioner for development of gokullu.com website for convenience of tourists. Himachal Gaurav award was presented to Aanchal Thakur for winning medal in skiing competition held at Turkey. Prerana Strot award of Rs 2.5 lakh in cash and citation was given to Prof Vinod K Pal, Dr Randeep Guleria, Dr Om Chand Handa and   for their outstanding contribution in their respective fields.
 
 
