Vadodara: By March next year, you will be able to enjoy a leisurely walk in fresh air around the Sursagar Lake in the city. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) on Monday drew plans to finish the lake renovation project within 14 months instead of the earlier deadline of 28 months. Municipal commissioner, Dr Vinod Rao took the decision on Monday after meeting the project consultants and contractors.

 The civic body promised to go for complete makeover of the lake that once earned a dubious name for being the most polluted waterbody in all five cities of Gujarat. “The process of emptying the lake will be over in next 20 days following which the sludge will be removed from the bed. The work on foundation will have to completed before the monsoons this year. We plan to complete the Sursagar Development Project by March next year,” Rao told TOI.
 
 The civic body also plans to make ghaats (steps) around the lake that will be accessible from all sides. “The area around the lake will have a walkway. About 25,000 to 30,000 visitors will be able to sit and enjoy the lakeview. Also, the area around the lake will be open only for pedestrians in evening. We will coordinate the plan for preventing vehicles around the lake with the police department,” Rao said. 
 
 Costing Rs 38 crore, the lake development project is expected give facelift to the locality that witnesses chaos and traffic daily during the peak hours. VMC will lit up the lake area and make illuminated water fountains. Boating facility too will resume in the lake. “We plan to dedicate the refurbished lake to the city by Maha Shivratri next year. Also, every evening aarti of Lord Mahadev will be done at the lake on the lines of Ganga aarti in Varnasi,” Rao added. 
 
 When asked how the civic body plans to keep the lake pollution free, Rao said that Ganesh idol immersions will be regulated and no one will be allowed to dispose anything in the lake. As a part of the lake development project, the Padmavati Shopping Complex opposite Nyay Mandir too might be demolished. “If everything goes as per plan, we will also dedicate the Jan Mahal in Sayajigunj to the city on Maha Shivratri next year,” Rao said. 
 
 
