In the last season of  , she was one of the highest-trolled contestants. She was also linked with another inmate  . This equation had also led to a   being titled after them called Naanu Mattu Sanju, in which the duo replayed a similar scenario from Bigg Boss. While viewers were busy speculating if this was indeed the case in real life too,   now reveals that Bhuvan was just that all this while — a good friend. 

 “Because, I have been in a relationship for the past three years, and his name is Gaurav Roy. In fact, I met him during the making of one of my serials and it was to be aired on the TV channel he works for. In the beginning we were just on hi-bye terms. This went on for about one-and-a-half years. Then, I got a call from the makers of Bigg Boss,” says Sanjana. “And the day before I left for the show, Gaurav had a surprise for me — he proposed to me. And even though I didn’t know him beyond a friend, I accepted,” she adds. 
 
 While on the show, Sanjana confesses that she nursed doubts if Gaurav would actually wait for her for three months while she was on the show. “Moreoever, so much had happened on Bigg Boss, including the link-ups with Bhuvan. The way it was portrayed, it really looked like we were together. Anybody in Gaurav’s place would have been extremely insecure. But not Gaurav. He didn’t ask me a word about Bhuvan,” she adds. It further reinstated her faith in him and Sanjana was elated that she had found the right man. So, what was the reaction at home? “My mother didn’t know about him. She got to know through my friends. Also, when she saw pictures of us, my mother had doubts that there was something beyond friendship. She confronted me and only came around recently,” she says. 
 
 She has been to Kolkata where Gaurav’s family resides and met his parents. “They are both doctors and very nice people. My parents have now accepted the fact that I have chosen the perfect man. We got engaged recently and I will be tying the knot with him next year,” she tells us. Work will continue as usual and Sanjana has a serial lined up which she accepted because it is for the channel in which Gaurav works. “He is unlike regular men and is very broad minded. I’m glad all is well in my world,” states Sanjana. 
 
 Psst: The Kirik Keerthi film, which was announced with much fanfare soon after Bigg Boss, in which she was also cast doesn’t seem to be taking off. “I have no clue what’s happening on that front,” she says. 
 
