NAGPUR: Judicial ethics was the crux of the inauguration of the 12th edition of the 4-day national event ‘Law Vision’ organized by Department of Law of Dr BR Ambedkar College at its Deekshabhoomi premises on Thursday. Senior administrative judge of Nagpur bench of Bombay high court justice BP   was invited as the chief guest for the event along Justice  , former chief justice of Sri Lanka, and  , vice chancellor of   (MNLU). 

 More than 300 students participated in the event which saw participation from across the country and also international entries. The four-day event comprises various courtroom related events to benefit students, such as moot court, debates, draft making, essay writing, personality contest and many more. 
 
 Dharmadhikari said, “Students are the future of the country and the judicial system lies in their hands. Students need to understand its importance and acknowledge the power bequeathed upon them. Lawyers do not have the same facilities as other disciplines, and they need to work harder to understand the ethics of the profession. Skills will add to your qualities but only experience and the maturity that comes along with it will actually bring out the best. Keen interest in the profession is the real driving factor.”
 
 Speaking on the importance of practical knowledge, Kumar added, “Through books one can understand the basics of a particular sector, but practising it makes one perfect. The real knowledge comes from utilizing the learned knowledge for the benefit of the society. Lawyers have to be sound in many different fields, be it presentation, drafting, communication, and hence such events provide a base for all and helps budding lawyers set their base in the profession.” 
 
 Kumar also added that he is in talks with the vice chancellor of Nagpur University to start a student exchange programme between students of NU and MNLU, which will benefit numerous students in their curriculum. Pieris added, “Lawyers need to understand that the profession is not just limited to courtrooms but it actually means that the lawyer represents the judiciary of the country. He is the representative of the court and of the public, and hence must act accordingly.” 
 
 
