PANAJI: Several colleges across the state are looking to increase their first year degree programme seats by 10% over the number that was on offer in 2017, after around 400 more students than last year cleared the class XII board exam this year. 

 Over 15,000 students have passed the class XII exam, and the figure is the highest ever. In 2017,   had already permitted colleges to increase their seats by 10% to accomodate the rise in students. But colleges are looking at upping their seats again this year.
 
 
 
  
 
 “At present, the admissions are running smoothly. But looking at Class XII results this year, there will be a mismatch between the availability of seats and the number of students applying for the first year degree programme admissions,” said principal of Saraswat Vidyalaya’s   and Management Studies, Mapusa, Santosh B Patkar. In 2017, the   had to add a fourth division to accomodate students for the first year BCom programme.
 
 Dhempe College of Arts & Science, Miramar, principal, Vrinda P S Borkar, said they are seeing a bigger rush for admissions than last year. “Admissions are based on first come, first serve basis,” she said.
 
 Within two days of the admissions opening, Zantye College Of Commerce, Bicholim, saw 180 prospectuses being sold out, for an institute, which has 180 seats on offer. The institute’s officials said that they are hoping to admit 198 students, if Goa University allows the college to take in 10% more students over their intake, like the concession was given last year.
 
 Officials at Margao’s Smt Parvatibai Chowgule College of Arts and Science said that they also have to keep some seats aside for now until the Class XII CBSE and ICSE board results are declared as students appearing under these boards in neighbouring schools also need to be accomodated by colleges.
 
 Vice-principal, Sanjay Desai, of Shree Damodar College of Commerce and Economics,  , said the institute saw around 400 prospectuses being bought by Friday for around 384 total seats available, in BCom, BBA and BCA programmes.   said that the institute is in the process of constructing a new building, after which is complete the college will be able to accomodate more students in the future.
 
 
