CHANDIGARH:The muchawaited draft   policy has been submitted to the state government for approval and would soon be unveiled to invite objections from the general public.

 According to sources, the policy suggests creation of a data bank in the state that will keep a track of farmers’ outstanding debt and other details to help draft agriculture-related policies. Bar coding of agricultural products and equipment could also be introduced to ensure that there is action in case of spurious pesticides and fertilizers.
 
 The draft makes a case for implementation of crop insurance and also looks at the possibility of waiving off institutional loans of   who have committed suicides due to indebtedness, added sources.
 
 To compare Punjab’s status vis-a-vis other states, the agriculture policy has also suggested creation of a Market Intelligence Cell, which will also help in taking note of changing trends in cropping patterns in the state. The policy also underlines judicious use of power and irrigation resources and if need be, a change in the existing systems, added sources.
 
 Meanwhile, the Vidhan Sabha committee on farmers’ suicides and economic problems being faced by farm labourers in the state has recommended setting up a debt settlement and reconciliation commission for settling cases of those farmers who are unable to pay their loans. It will help in convincing farmers to repay the loans with time relaxation or through one-time settlement.
 
 The committee has also said that even though minimum support prices for crops other than wheat and paddy have been fixed to promote crop diversification, the full amounts were not being paid. The committee has added that in the absence of a clear agriculture policy, farmers were stuck in the wheat-paddy cycle.
 
 To make the trend for farm producer organizations pick in the state, the state should carry out awareness campaigns. The need for setting up dispensaries for free treatment and setting up of basic infrastructure for cluster of villages has also been highlighted by the panel.
 
