JAIPUR: The third edition of the international travel   festival, JaipurPhoto, began on Friday and will virtually turn the city into an open art gallery. To photography festival will go on till March 4 and can be seen at heritage locations across the city.

 The theme for this year has been inspired by the classic 1966 song by   & Garfunkel— ‘Homeward Bound’. The exhibits will be displayed at Hawa Mahal,  , Albert Hall Museum, Jantar Mantar, former police headquarters and the Jawahar Kala Kendra.
 
 The programme will showcase a wide variety of contemporary photographers who explore, express, engage with and examine notions of ‘home’, and how one’s idea of ‘home’ is both determined and defined by people themselves and others.
 
 The highlight this year is a special show which is to be held at City Palace by Tarq Gallery from Mumbai that will have works by Clare Arni, a Bengaluru based photographer. Her works encompass architecture, travel, social documentary and cultural heritage. The event will also have a special screening of the film made by the French   collector Christophe Prebois on Rajasthani studio photographer Chand. Both Prebois and Chand will be present for the screening of the film.
 
 “We are delighted to welcome you to the third edition of JaipurPhoto, a festival presenting photography from India and around the world in non-conventional formats in public spaces. We hope that this eclectic mix will provide you with new insights into the ‘homes’ and ‘homelands’ of others and will inspire you to reflect upon your idea of home and what it means to you,” said Lola Mac Dougall, artistic director.
 
 The festival is organised by   in collaboration with the state department of tourism. Visitors are invited to discover the remarkable heritage while visiting the large format exhibits, which are often site-specific.
 
 Photo caption at Albert Hall:
 
 Exhibit by Asmita Parelkar, titled ‘Giraffe Behind the Door’, a project about animals in captivity which questions the contemporary relationship between humans and animals
 
 
