KOLKATA: Driven to penury,   and Devi Prasad   refuse to give up hope on their loved ones who are suffering from terminal disease like cancer.

 Som from   has admitted his wife   Som (67), who has been suffering from cancer for the last two and a half years, to a hospital in Kolkata. The factory worker retired from his job in 2004 after the unit was shut down. After six rounds of chemotherapy and oral medicines, Mukti Rani is still fighting for life.
 
 “The treatment cost has exceeded Rs 3.5 lakh. We had appealed to Nabanna and found some financial assistance which is insufficient looking at the huge cost incurred. But, I have exhausted my savings and now my elder son is taking care of the treatment. He has been our constant support since my younger son expired around the same time when my wife was detected with the disease. Not only does my elder son bear the cost of treatment, he is also looking after the family of my younger son,” said Som. He added, “She had recovered well after the first round of treatment but the disease relapsed and she complained of extreme chest pain and lethargy.” Som also said that they would continue with the treatment till her last breath.
 
  (75) from   is also undergoing treatment for bone cancer at a city hospital. He had been detected with the disease seven years ago when he fell down and fractured his bones. He then complained of other problems and was later detected with the disease. In the last few years, around Rs 6 lakh to Rs 7 lakh has been spent by his family on his treatment. “Earlier, my brother made arrangements for the treatment. We even sold off the land and some other property. My brother is not taking care of the treatment any more. I am his daughter and cannot accept him to die without treatment,” said Sarama Roy, Mondal’s daughter. The judgment of apex court over passive euthanasia finds no support from Sarama. “I won’t allow my father to end his life even if he wants to. I will continue with his treatment as long as I can afford,” she added.
 
