RAIPUR: Nearly 35 swimmers from Purai village of Durg district, famously known as 'Khel Gaon' of Chhattisgarh have been selected by   (SAI) to impart them special training for free. The issue was first raised by TOI when hundreds of national level swimmers were forced to practice in the only lake available in village in extremely unhygenic conditions.   had taken cognizance of it and promised to provide swimming pool or training.

 
 There were in all 35 children who went for selection test of special training on swimming conducted by SAI and all of them were selected. This includes 14 girls and 21 boys. They would now undergo training at international swimming pool at Raipur and the expenses of their accommodation and other requirements would be taken care by SAI.
 
 More than 50 state and national level swimmers in November last year had staged protest for several days, via Jal Satyagrah, demanding to clean the polluted Purai lake on which they depended to practice swimming. As many of them, including the differently-abled and gold medalists, had developed skin infections from polluted lake they couldn't participate in few contests.
 
 On reports published by TOI, SAI took cognizance of the issue and invited swimmers for selection of swimming training organized for best swimmers across the country.
 
 As the whole demonstration was led by a national level NGO-   which had also written to Prime Minister's Office and SAI, the state co-ordinator   told TOI that the Khel Gaon residents are in a festive mood after selection of 35 children from same village.
 
 "The children have exceptional caliber and they never hesitated to practice swimming in the lake which was catering to cattle-bath, washermen, bathing and as an outlet for drainage systems. They continued to get selected in national level contests too but soon they developed skin infections and other diseases affecting their health and practice both. It was then time to raise an alarm and we gave them voice," said Mishra adding that the work of a proper swimming pool at the village itself was started for other children to practice. 
 
 A list of 35 selected children have been issued by SAI on Tuesday, a copy of which is with TOI.
 
