KOLKATA : Stirred by the ongoing controversy over the quality of chicken available in markets, major eateries in Kolkata have started taking a host of measures — from checking the tenderness of each piece to buying live chicken instead of dressed ones — to ensure there is no compromise with the quality of food.

 At Nizam’s in Esplanade, the management has stopped buying dressed chicken for the last four days. Instead, they are buying live chicken from the supplier. “We trust our supplier but cannot take any chance at the moment. Hence, we have asked the supplier to not to provide us with dressed meat anymore. We are buying live chicken from him,” said Kartick Mukherjee, the chief administrator of Nizam’s.
  
  
 Avijit Dey of Afra Tafri on Theatre Road said they had asked their chef to personally check each piece that comes from their supplier in Park Circus market. “Our chef ensures there are no blood clots. We have been witnessing a drop in quality on some occasions and have immediately returned those to the supplier,” said Dey, the manager.
 
 Mocambo and Peter Cat owner Nitin Kothari said they had always been strict about quality check and after the recent controversy, they have involved more men in multiple checks and scrutiny.
 
 The restaurant owners and patrons, however, mentioned that there had been no dip in demand. “We thrive on chicken and cannot let go of it at any cost. But as a precaution, we have started avoiding the good old chicken roll and kababs from roadside roll shops,” said Anol Chatterjee, a musician and a resident of Golf Green.
 
 Chatterjee’s statement was evident with the fact that on a Tuesday evening around 5.30pm,   and Hot Kati Roll, two of the busiest roll centres on Park Street, were devoid of much customers. While Hot Kati Roll had only three customers, Kusum Roll had none. “The business has dropped by at least 25 -30%,” said Md Shamim of Hot Kati Roll. Kusum Roll owner Satish Kumar Gupta sighed: “We hope this situation tides over fast.”
 
 Meanwhile,   on Tuesday raided retail and wholesale chicken markets at New Market and Ultadanga and seized samples of frozen meat from both the places. The officials even raided a few shops and asked the owners from where they procure their livestock and warned them to not to buy frozen meat.
 
 “The pieces that have been procured have been sent to our KMC laboratory for tests. Based on the result, we will take appropriate action against the offenders,” Atin Ghosh, MMiC (health).
 
 
