 has carved a comfortable space for herself in both Hindi as well as Marathi television. But not one to rest on her laurels, the senior actor has returned to   with ' ' and is quite enjoying her stint with the medium these days. We caught up with the actor, who was in Nagpur to stage her play.
 
 “My father Vyankatesh Sangvai was a district judge posted at Nagpur almost 25 years ago and I remember shopping at Sitabuldi and driving around Ambazari Lake. In fact, my first play Atmakatha, was written by Nagpur-based veteran playwright  . When I came to the city to stage his play years ago, we stayed with him at his Shankar Nagar home and he really pampered us. So, Nagpur is more like a mayka for me,” shares the actor, who claims to have a ‘deep soul connect' with Nagpur.
 
 Her latest play is an adult comedy, where she plays the lead along with 52-year-old Prashant Damle. “In Marathi theatre, people easily accept us as lead players. But Hindi theatre is more about light, weekend entertainment, where young actors are often used as eye candy. The Marathi audience is quite open to serious, experimental and social theatre and that is quite motivating,” she says, about senior actors taking the lead in Marathi theatre.
 
 Striking a fine balance between theatre and the small screen, one wonders why Shubhangi has stayed away from Marathi films for years. She says candidly, “When films are planned, you have to be there at the right place at the right time; but I have been busy working in TV, which is my bread and butter. Moreover, there are camps in the Marathi film industry. Since I don’t belong to any group, I don’t get good roles in Marathi films.” 
 
 And while she has no regrets about this, she is particularly elated with the way young actors are paving a way for themselves today. “When I look at the way my daughter Sakhi has gone about her career, I feel proud. Whether it was saying yes to a serial like 'Dil Dosti Duniyadari' or turning producer with her play Amar Photo Studio, she has surprised me. I’m glad that youngsters like  ,   and Sakhi have joined forces and decided to create the kind of work horizon that they want to work in.”
 
 
 Watch: What Shubhangi Gokhale has to say about her profession:
 
 
  
  
