GURUGRAM: A team of   engineers, who visited the newly built   flyover on Sunday to ascertain why a concrete chunk had come off it on April 23, submitted their initial report. It clearly states the mishap occurred as the “pocket of concrete” had come loose. 

 The   team, roped in project contractor by Valecha Engineering Limited — who have been asked to conduct extensive testing of the weak area from today — is yet to visit the site. 
 
 They are supposed to file their report in 10 days.
 
 NHAI, who said immediate action was taken after the incident was reported, will decide on further course of action only after the IIT Bombay team submits its report. 
 
 “After necessary testing being carried out in consultation with IIT Bombay, remedial measures shall be taken as per their suggestions and traffic will be allowed only after that,” said NHAI Gurugram project director Ashok Sharma.
 
 The damage — a pothole measuring about 50cm x 50cm and 15cm deep, was observed in the middle lane of the Jaipur to Delhi carriageway of the   on April 23. NHAI Gurugram project director Ashok Sharma said, “Valecha took immediate action and repaired the pothole on the deck slab. The contentious area has been kept under observation and traffic restricted over the damaged area as measure of abundant precaution.” After the repairs, an earth mover was placed in the middle of the Delhi-bound flank to allow the patchwork to settle in.
 
 The team that visited the site on Sunday comprised senior engineers. “According to them, prima facie it seems to be a localised problem, but steps are being taken to analyse its root cause,” added Sharma.
 
 D D Sarode of Institute of Chemical Technology, Mumbai, who has also done his PhD in concrete from IIT Bombay, said, “The IIT Bombay team will will need to look into its design, construction detailing and quality control during construction. Detailed testing (structural audit) of the entire flyover, by “non-destructive” testing, has now become necessary, to identify weak or cracked portions,” said Sarode.
 
 “Core samples should be taken from various places to cross-check strength of the concrete and compared with the design mix recommended for that section. If any weak or distressed area is identified, it should be strengthened using glass or carbon fibre polymer composites. Till this is done, heavy traffic restrictions should be imposed on that patch,” he added.
 
 Further, a notice has also been issued to contractor for lapse in execution of the work. A suitable action would be taken as per contract based on final report, which is expected to come out in 10 days.
 
