PATNA: Bihar industries department has received   to the tune of Rs102.5 crore as initial instalment to set up new industries in the state under the ‘Chief Minister SC/ST Entrepreneurship Scheme’ to promote active participation of scheduled caste and scheduled tribe people.

 A day after the scheme received the state cabinet nod, industries department’s principal secretary S Siddharth in a press conference on Wednesday said the department would not only help entrepreneurs with an interest-free loan, but would also provide linkage between entrepreneurs and anchor investors to promote disbursed outsourced manufacturing systems.
 
 “Nearly 83% of the funds meant for aiding startups under Bihar Industrial Investment Promotion Policy, 2016 were utilized last year. The remaining 17% allocated for SC/ST candidates remained unutilized as these communities did not actively participate in setting up startup industries. Chief minister Nitish Kumar has promised sufficient funds for the scheme. If need be, we will utilize the funds allocated for SC/ST in other departments that go unutilized,” he said.
 
 Under this scheme, funds would be made available to Bihar Startup Trust Fund for distribution among budding entrepreneurs, who would also have to undergo a week’s training at appointed business schools to qualify for the scheme. A report on the candidate would be submitted to a committee headed by principal secretary in industries department for approval to receive the funds. 
 
 An entrepreneur will be provided Rs10 lakh for a startup industry under the scheme. There will be a 50% subsidy and Rs2.5 lakh will be provided as the first instalment to the entrepreneur. After the candidate makes provisions for land and shed to start business and provides proof to the committee of the same, the second instalment of the Rs5 lakh would be released. “The loan will be provided interest-free. The first year will be treated as moratorium period. The loan can be paid off in 84 instalments over a period of seven years. We initially plan to target 2,000 people, but expect to receive more applications. We have been asked by the CM to dispose of all applications that we receive,” Siddharth said.
 
 An aspiring entrepreneur will have to produce a certificate of Class XII, Intermediate, polytechnic diploma or ITI as minimum qualifications to benefit from the scheme. The entrepreneur must be from SC/ST category and over 18 years of age. The company should either be registered under proprietorship, partnership, LLP or private limited. Societies and trusts have not been included in the scheme as of now.
 
 “The main problem faced by entrepreneurs is in acquiring loans for their startups as banks ask for collateral security or margin money which they are unable to produce or pay at times. The department, thus, decided to create a scheme that doesn't involve banks,” Siddharth added.
 
 
