LUDHIANA: The Ludhiana police are hoping to solve four murder cases in the city, which were unsolved for more than two decades, thanks to the arrest of a serial killer on Friday. The arrested accused has confessed to have committed as many as seven murders, including four in Ludhiana, in the past two decades. The local police are now planning to bring the accused in the city on a production warrant.

 On Friday, Patiala police arrested auto driver   (47), a resident of  . The accused was arrested for murdering another Ludhiana-based man —   of Sarpanch Colony — in Patiala. Rajinder’s body was found from near Tagore Theatre in Patiala’s Model Town. According to Patiala police, the accused killed Rajinder, as he suspected him of having a relationship with his paramour,  .   was killed by the duo with a sharp-edged weapon and brick.
 
 Speaking to TOI on phone, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Patiala, S  , said the accused had confessed to the police that he had committed seven murders. His first murder was of a woman in Shimlapuri of Ludhiana, who was killed during a robbery in 1995. The accused barged into her house, and when the woman resisted, Jagroop and his accomplice killed her. Further, Jagroop killed another woman when he barged into Nirankari Bhawan in Badowal in 1998 to commit theft.
 
 “Initially, the accused confessed to a total of four murders in Ludhiana, including two in the 1990s, one in 2011, and then in 2016. Jagroop said in one of the murders, he was acquitted by the court, but the police are verifying everything,” added Bhupati. Further, he said the accused was married to a Haryana-based woman, but nobody knew about her whereabouts. The accused had relations with another woman, and he killed the husbands of both the women.
 
 Police said in 2011, Jagroop developed an illicit relationship with Hema of Kakowal Road, who was then married to Nand Lal. Jagroop killed him by attacking him with bricks in a vacant plot, when Nand Lal identified his relationship with Hema. Further, in 2015, Jagroop developed a relationship with another woman of   in Ludhiana, Paramjeet Kaur. Jagroop and Paramjeet killed a Patiala-based man Anil Kumar in 2015. Later, when Paramjeet came to know about Jagroop’s illicit relationship with Hema, the duo killed Paramjeet. A murder case was registered in this context at Dehlon police station.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Dhruman Nimbale said: “The Ludhiana police are already in touch with Patiala police over Jagroop Singh, who confessed to having committed four murders in Ludhiana. We have computerized data of all FIRs of the past ten years. So far, case details of 1995 and 1998 murders have not been identified. However, cops got the details of Dehlon murder in which an FIR was lodged against unidentified accused.”
 
 Further, Nimbale said the accused would be brought on a production warrant to Ludhiana to solve the untraced cases. 
 
 CRIME UNRAVELLED
 
 On April 24, 2016, the body of Paramjeet Kaur (35) was found in the fields of a resident of village Jassowal, Chhinder Singh. He immediately sounded the village sarpanch  , and the police was called. The woman had sustained severe injuries on her body. An FIR against unidentified accused was lodged on the complaint of village sarpanch Gurmeet Singh. 
 
 
