AHMEDABAD:   achieved a major breakthrough in the kidnapping and multi-crore bitcoin extortion case on Friday and arrested Kirit Paladiya, the business partner of complainant Shailesh Bhatt. Paladiya was marked as the mastermind behind the kidnapping of Shailesh Bhatt and himself on February 11. 

 CID crime officials claim Paladiya staged the kidnapping in connivance with top police officials and other co-accused in order to cheat Bhatt of 11,000 litecoins (a crypto-currency) amounting to 176 bitcoins, which Bhatt had kept in Paladiya’s e-wallet at Binance (a crypto-currency exchange). 
 
 Key accused in the case, besides Paladiya, include advocate Ketan Patel, his brother  , SP  , inspector Anant Patel and others. Police are also probing how Bhatt came into possession of the large amount of crypto-currency amounting to more than Rs 9.96 crore.
 
 This is the sixth arrest made by CID crime after SP Amreli, Jagdish Patel, LCB inspector Anant Patel, advocate Ketan Patel and two policemen were arrested in the same crime. CID crime had also summoned former   MLA from Dhari, Amreli, Nalin Kotadiya for questioning, as his name had surfaced in the statements of accused and in the call detail records (CDR) of the accused.
 
 However, Kotadiya who had earlier told reporters that he was ready to face the probe and had claimed he has an audio clip that would expose Shailesh Bhatt’s criminal activities, did not turn up at the CID crime office in Gandhinagar on Friday. He had been summoned to remain present before CID at 3pm.
 
 DIG (CID crime and Railways) Deepankar Trivedi said they had served summons at Kotadiya’s house in Amreli on Thursday night in his absence, and had informed his family members about the same.
 
 “Though we are yet to ascertain Kotadiya’s role in the case, if he does not turn up for questioning, we will issue two more summonses before declaring him an absconder,” Trivedi said.
 
 CID crime officials said the probe is going on and more surprises may emerge. “We have our teams in Surat, and a parallel inquiry is going on to find out from where Shailesh Bhatt obtained about 11,000 litecoins. As Bhatt is not acquainted with crypto-currency wallet operations, he was keeping his crypto currency in Paladiya’s Binance account,” said DIG Trivedi.
 
 Trivedi said further, “While Kotidiya was constantly in touch with the accused on his cellphone on February 11, Paladiya lured Bhatt to Ahmedabad, from where they were kidnapped and taken to Keshav Farm.”
 
 “To frighten Bhatt, Paladiya was beaten up as planned between the accused earlier. Paladiya then manage to convince Bhatt that the crypto-currency kept in his Binance account has been transferred to a person who was fronting for the cops and other co-accused,” Trivedi said, adding, “Bhatt never questioned Paladiya as he feared the cops would again start hunting for him.”
 
 
