PATNA: Only 10%   in the city follow security norms, the scrutiny of details submitted by 450 girls hostel to the office of Patna divisional commissioner revealed. Very few have CCTV cameras while none has security guards.

 “They have been given one month’s time to meet all security requirements or stop the hostel business,” Commissioner Anand Kishor told this newspaper on Friday. The basic facilities include a common room, hygienic kitchen, better food, CCTV cameras, lady wardens, security guards, record of girls’ IDs, health and hygiene, disaster management and parking.
 
 The commissioner reviewed on Thursday the security measures at girls’ hostels at a meeting with Patna DM Kumar Ravi, zonal IG   and Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj.
 
 Girls from outside Patna stay in such hostels to either prepare for competitive examinations or work in different establishments. A number of girls have complained about congested rooms, untidy kitchens, poor sanitation, lack of CCTV camera, absence of warden and poor security in majority of the hostels. 
 
 “Providing security to girls living in hostels is need of the hour. There are many hostels in this locality and girls face the same situation. I’m happy that the administration has taken any initiative for girls’ security,” said Anu Priya, who lives with her sister at a girls’ hostel at  .
 
 Swati Krishna, who also stays in a hostel in the same locality, said, “We have complained many times about the broken window sill in the washroom, but the owner never pays any heed. I hope our problems will be sorted out, now.”
 
 Soumya Shireen, who lives near Boring Road roundabout, said she paid Rs5,000 per month for a three-seater room. “The room is too small to accommodate hardly two persons. We don’t even have CCTV camera at the entrance of the hostel,” she said.
 
 Hostel owners, on the other hand, rued lack of financial resources for more facilities. The one at   said, “I charge only Rs3,500 per month from each boarder and provide all basic facilities, including food. I also maintain students’ register and they are not allowed to go out after 7.30pm. There is a security guard and I also look after the students’ movement. We need money and will have to charge extra from the students to hire a full-fledged warden and install a CCTV camera.”
 
 The DM said the initiative was taken in the wake of recent incidents where security and safety of students were breached. “The district administration also received a few complaints about the functioning of girls’ hostels in the city,” he said.
 
 Recently, five girls living in a private hostel at Makhania Kuan had accused the hostel owner of peeping into their washroom and trying to outrage their modesty.
 
 
