LUCKNOW/UNNAO: A day after a 20-year-old girl tried to immolate herself near UP CM's residence accusing BJP MLA   and his aides of gang rape, her father died in mysterious circumstances at a hospital in Unnao early Monday morning. The girl's father was in judicial custody after his arrest for a brawl with Sengar's supporters last week. 

 The Unnao administration swung into action after Devender's (name changed to protect the alleged rape survivor's identity) death and arrested four persons, besides suspending six policemen, including the in charge of Makhi police station. 
 
 Later in the evening, Sengar arrived at the secretariat to offer his explanation to the CM, but reportedly could not meet him. The home department said the girl had not named the MLA in her first complaint, lodged after the alleged crime in June last year. 
 
 Yogi said ADG (Lucknow) has been asked to conduct a probe and bring the guilty to book, "no matter howsoever powerful that person is". 
 
 According to reports, on April 3, some miscreants barged into Devender's house and bashed him brutally in front of his wife and daughter. The family reached Makhi police station to lodge an FIR against Sengar's younger brother Atul and other aides. Devender alleged that Atul led the group and asked his accomplices to attack the family. 
 
 An FIR was lodged on April 4 against the assailants but Atul's name didn't figure in it. On the other hand, Makhi police booked Devender under IPC sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) and also pressed Arms Act against him after registering a counter-FIR on the same day. Devender was arrested and the court sent him to 14-day judicial remand after police argued that he was a listed criminal. After a medical check-up at the district hospital, he was sent to Unnao prison around 7.30 pm on April 4. 
 
 Devender was shifted from the prison to the district hospital on Sunday evening after he complained of stomach ache. He died in the hospital around 3.30am on Monday. The exact cause for his death would be known after an autopsy on Monday night or Tuesday morning. The rape survivor alleged on Monday that Sengar had got her father killed since she was not willing to withdraw the gang-rape complaint against him. "Since Unnao police refused to act against Sengar, his brothers and goons, we were forced to move court to get an FIR registered. He organised the attack on my father when he refused to withdraw the complaint," she said. 
 
 On the delay in lodging an FIR against Sengar, she said the MLA had threatened to get the entire family killed. "I had met the chief minister on August 17 last year and told him about my ordeal. I was assured of help but this is what happened in the end," she told mediapersons. 
 
 As news about Devender's death spread on Monday, opposition leaders slammed the Yogi government and UP police over their claims of keeping women secure and upholding the law of the land.
 
 
