MUMBAI: The BMC’s ambitious proposal to build public parking lots (PPL) has received a setback with the state government rejecting reservations for such plots while approving the Development Control and Promotion Regulations (DCPR). The reservation would have ensured that builders construct public parking lots while developing their projects. 

 The BMC’s town planning department and DP’s planning committee, headed by former   officer  , had put a reservation on 84 plots, mostly in the island city, to create parking space for 50,000 vehicles. 
 
  
  
 
 Under the scheme, a plot owner needed to construct PPLs on the first few floors of a building for the   free of cost. In lieu of this, the BMC would permit additional construction on half of the area surrendered for public parking. 
 
 Officials said that unless there is a reservation, builders may not construct public parking lots as the new DCPR offers a floor space index (FSI) of 3 in the island city. 
 
 Earlier, when the FSI was 1.33, PPLs were an incentive as they increased the construction potential of a plot. For instance, in an earlier scenario, when the FSI was 1.33, a plot where a 10-floor building was permitted, the builder could develop a 23-storey tower. 
 
 And then if the builder opted for PPL scheme, s/he would construct four floors at the base of the building for parking and in turn, would be allowed two more floors. But with the new DCPR that allows and FSI of 3 in the island city, a builder can anyway construct a 30-floor building on the same plot, making the PPL incentive redundant. 
 
 Adding more floors to a building on this plot would be disproportionate, said experts. The government notification on DCPR says that where PPLs have been proposed, all such reservations/designations shall deem to be deleted. Town planners agreed that there is a need to create more parking space to de-congest roads as vehicles have to be parked along the roads. 
 
 An engineer stated that the government needs to reconsider its decision in larger public interest. In the earlier development plan (DP) of 1991, there was parking lot (PL) reservation, but as it was not enough for the number of vehicles in the city, in 2014, the BMC came up with a new scheme and later incorporated it in the new  . 
 
 
