With an initiative to revive regional languages,  , a literary group, launched its Lucknow Chapter with the dramatized reading of the stories of   and   recently. The group, engaged in the dramatized reading of the stories of the authors' work, is part of a bigger project that has been undertaken by  , founder of the initiative. It's been two years since the movement has garnered much support from the literary enthusiasts and it not only has a long list of volunteers today but also has a dedicated channel on a social platform with more than 2000 followers.
Gulrays, born to a Kashmiri father and his mother from Gorakhpur, has spent his whole life in Mumbai. Having worked for four decades in the advertising field, Gulrays studied   and Persian literature at college and felt that Indian writers were treated shabbily. Sharing how this movement took shape, Gulrays says, "Once, I was sitting at home thinking of writing a book in Urdu but suddenly realised, who is going to read it? Nobody in my family knows how to read Urdu and it will be sold as raddi. That’s when I decided that we have to preserve not only Urdu language but all the Indian languages. And today we have read out over a thousand stories drawn from several Indian languages, including Bengali, Marathi, Hindi, Konkani. We are expanding into more languages as it attracts more volunteer and readers."
 Highlighting the gradual degradation of the Indian language, Gulrays says, "During the post-independence era, I was fighting for the Indian authors that they should be paid adequately because the remuneration paid to the English language writers was much more as compared to their Indian counterparts. Later, it was a much worrying scene as there was an inclination of our society towards the English language. We started sending our kids to English schools." Adding further, Gulrays says, "The young generation today proudly says that 'I don’t know my mother tongue'. They cannot read or speak Hindi and Urdu aur bol bhi lete hain toh tooti phooti bol lete hain. This thing was pinching me because agar aapko apni maatrbhasha nahi aati toh ye toh doob marne ka makaam hai."
 Stressing on the need to save Indian languages, Gulrays points out, "If we don't start saving our Indian languages today, by the year 3000 there will be 5 national museums of the Indian languages in our country. I want to reach out to school and colleges so that we can expand our reach to the young minds and inculcate the habit of reading our Indian languages in kids."
 Coming to the launch of the Lucknow Chapter, he says, "I have lots of hope from here. Though one would say ki Lucknow mein language ke upar koi khatra nahi hai still there is an underlying threat which may not be imminent."
 By Abhishek.Shukla2@timesgroup.com
 
