I took the 9.41pm   from   station on Monday. The AC compartment was as crowded as it usually is around that time on a working day. I saw a couple standing, neither dressed indecently. The girl was wearing a pair of palazzos and a long top. The boy, if I remember correctly, was wearing a pair of jeans and a T-shirt. He sported a beard like  .

 
 The fact that they were embracing each other didn’t go down well with some passengers. I thought it was their choice and not my business to judge them on how intimate they could be in public. Minor exchanges — in Bengali — between the couple were drifting to my ears, as were conversations of other passengers. But what the couple were saying wasn’t something terribly disturbing.
 
 When the train reached Sovabazar, I heard a comment that made me sit up. A man, who seemed to be in his 60s, said the couple could go to a bar on   and get close. He also offered suggestions of them getting intimate in bed somewhere. The fact that such an elderly gentleman was using the word “bed” came across rather shocking.
 
 The boy was dismissive about whatever was being said. I heard him saying: “If you say all this, your pressure will shoot.” When the girl raised the security issue and the need to be protected by him in a crowded train, the elderly man claimed “girls from decent families don’t behave this way in public”. As the altercation heightened, the elderly man, ostensibly incensed, blurted out: “He thinks he is  .” The boy immediately reacted. Addressing all the passengers, he said, “He has called me Salman Khan. I am taking this as a compliment.” This angered a few others who now jumped in to “protest”. “You are talking out of turn and instigating others,” one of them said.
 
 All hell broke loose as the couple alighted at Dum Dum. People accosted the two and punched the boy. To protect him from being assaulted further, the girl tightly hugged him. In that span of two-to-three minutes, I wouldn’t be surprised if she was also subject to some blows. Presently, a few women intervened and escorted the couple out. I saw the two leave the premises with their heads bowed down.
 
 
 
 
