HYDERABAD: It’s amazing how the   bowlers effect a turnaround from the dead in match after match. They did it most recently against Mumbai Indians for a 31-run win, and after their batting came a cropper against   on Thursday, they rose to the occasion to script another stirring comeback win, by 13 runs in this instance.

 
 
 
 
 It was   with his stunning figures of two for nine who did it at the Wankhede. And it was the Afghan legspinner to the fore again at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium with three for 19 (11 dot balls) – a remarkable comeback after he conceded 55 in Mohali -- as it was the turn of Kings XI to choke in the face of a never-say-die Sunrisers’ attack.
 
 The Sunrisers had only 132 for six to defend and the Kings XI openers gave their team a sound start, adding 55 for the first wicket. Chris Gayle was the initial aggressor and it was not too long before KL Rahul came into his own. But it all unravelled the moment Rashid bamboozled Rahul and knocked back his off-stump with a peach of a delivery.
 
 Basil Thampi then ran the full length of the pitch to pouch an intended top-edged pull off Gayle and that set the cat among the pigeons. From 57 for two in the ninth over, Kings XI crashed to 91 for five after 15 – 42 required from 30 deliveries – as the cream succumbed to some clever bowling by Shakib Al Hasan in the middle overs – and crashed out for 119.
 
 Mayank Agarwal, Karun Nair, Aaron Finch and Manoj Tiwary all proved inadequate on a day when Manish Pandey’s charmed life at the wicket – he earned three reprieves in making 54 (51b, 4x3, 6x1) -- and his 52-run stand for the fourth wicket with Shakib lent some respectability to the Sunrisers’ innings that never took off after   (5/14) reduced them to 27 for three inside five overs with a brilliant first spell of 3-0-9-3.
 
 Skipper Kane Williamson failed to clear the in-field and Shikhar Dhawan, who looked good in his brief knock, was gobbled up by Nair at slip. Wriddhiman Saha’s poor run continued and it could have been worse for the Sunrisers had Barinder Sran not overstepped. Shakib cut him uppishly and straight to third man Agarwal.
 
 
