BHOPAL: A 16-year-old class 8 student of a private school in Kolar area, who had gone missing after school on Monday was traced in Ludhiana.

 The boy has been detained by   that acted swiftly on a tip off by   police. His parents alleged the boy went missing after being punished by his teachers for being late to school.
 
 However, the school has denied the charges and said the CCTV footage shows the boy left school normally along with his friends. Reports said the boy left school around 1.40 pm and reached   station from where he boarded a Ludhiana-bound train.
 
 City superintendent of police Bhupindra Singh told TOI that CCTV footage showed the boy was located at Habibganj railway station and then seen boarding a train to Ludhiana.
 
 “He is in custody of Ludhiana GRP and will be sent back to Bhopal on Wednesday. The reason why he left school and took this step is not known. The matter is under investigation. We have recorded statement of his friends and family to know the exact cause,” Singh said.
 
 The boy’s parents alleged that his teachers had punished him for the whole day for coming late to school. Refuting their allegations, the school principal said “Firstly, he is never late to school. His friends have told me that he was upset due to some issues at home.” The principal said that usually students are made to stand in class if they do not obey the teachers. “Teachers might have told him to stand in class which, I will clarify with my staff,” she said.
 
 She alleged that the boy’s family had threatened to set the school on fire if their child was not found. “On learning about the incident, the school was kept open till 6 pm on Monday to help parents of the boy. As per CCTV footage, he had left school smiling,” the principal said. Around 1,400 students are enrolled in the school from class 1 to 12. A check of the CCTVs revealed that four cameras were dysfunctional. One of the CCTV that was working showed Rohit and his friend leaving the school premises.
 
 
