Vijayawada: The city’s only state-run hospital offering super speciality services, the new Government General Hospital (GGH), has failed miserably in providing treatment to the poor and needy. 

 The hospital is struggling to cater to the huge rush, almost 1,800 outpatients on most days of the week. However, the strength of doctors and support staff has not increased in the past few years.
 
 A source in the hospital administration, under the condition of anonymity, said that some 450 medical staffers, including doctors, nurses, technicians and others, had been sanctioned for the new GGH. However, the actual strength is very less, said the source without giving putting a number to it.
 
  The hospital has asked for 350 more medical staffers, the source said.
 
 The 200-bed new GGH provides super speciality services, including orthopaedic, gastroenterology, neurology, cardiology and plastic surgery. Roughly a couple years ago, the hospital used to registered 750 outpatients a day on an average. 
 
 However, the number has more than doubled. Most outpatients cases come to the orthopaedic department. 
 
 Long queues can be seen at the OP counters in the first block of the hospital from early morning. Hundreds of patients and their attendants can be seen waiting for consultation slips. 
 
 Koppuala Rama Rao, a farmer from Thotlavalluru, said: “We came for orthopaedic consultation, and have been waiting in the long queue for almost two hours. I have a serious injury to my leg, and am unable to stand. None of the officials are responding here. There are only two counters functioning at present. The officials who run the show here must focus on increasing OP counters to help patients.” 
 
 Patients who get OP consultation slips have to wait for examination by physicians in the first and second blocks. Peddireddy Purnachandra Rao, a patient from Satyanarayanapuram, said, “OP is available only in morning hours, and long queues can be seen at every department. The neurology department sees at least 250 outpatients a day, and there are only two doctors. This causes huge delays in providing treatment. We waited for almost two hours, and there must be at least hundred more patients ahead of us.” 
 
 Orthopaedic patients, who complete consultation in first block, are referred to digital X-ray and diagnostics department, which is located in the third block. These patients face a lot of hardship going to the third block, add to this the lack of stretchers and wheelchairs. “Moving from one block to other is a big challenge for orthopaedic patients visiting the hospital,” said Srinu, a patient from Vambay colony. “I have waited for almost an hour for a wheelchair, and finally, the staff gave us a stretcher, and asked us to carry two patients at a time to the block for imaging.” 
 
 The Vijayawada GGH is a perfect example of poor planning of officials, said CPM secretariat member Ch Babu Rao. “Patients face problems moving within blocks. X-ray and other diagnostics relating to orthopaedic department are placed in the third block, which is tough for patients,” he said.
 
 
