AGRA: Following the cancellation of appointments of as many as 8,000 teachers, self-financed colleges affiliated to Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University are now wondering how to get qualified teachers to run courses for the upcoming 2018-19 academic session.
 
  According to the university administration, in the absence of adequate number of   courses run by private colleges will be declared invalid.
  
  Only those who have cleared the National Eligibility Test (NET) or have a PhD degree are eligible to handle  
  
  The university authorities have already made it clear that only the colleges which fulfill the terms and conditions of affiliation by June 30, 2018 will be allowed hold admissions for the upcoming session. Also, the number of valid seats for each course will be determined by the availability of approved teachers. Till now, majority of teachers in private colleges were   who were being paid a monthly remuneration of Rs 8,000-Rs10,000. However, the colleges will now have to hire qualified staffers and will have to pay them higher salaries as per the UGC norms.
  
  President of Self-Financed Colleges’ Association,   said, “The university administration should invite applications from qualified teachers. After screening the applicants, they should be given approval to work as faculty members. The colleges will pay them as per the standard norms. This will also help qualified candidates in getting jobs.”
  
  Owners of some colleges said that it will be very difficult for them to find such a large number of NET/PhD candidates within such a short duration and that the government must allow them to appoint postgraduates.
  
  Meanwhile, university public relations officer   said, “No new norms are being introduced and only the existing ones are being strictly implemented. The administration is working towards raising the academic standards.”
  
  As many as 7,500 out of the 8,000 teachers whose appointments were cancelled by the varsity were found to be teaching at more than one institute at the same time.
