Ludhiana: A 60-year-old migrant labourer with a   group successfully received blood transfusion at the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) here. Ram Ajoor, who runs a pan shop in the city, is suffering from anaemia and complications of diabetes. CMCH doctors had to first locate a donor for his rare blood group — called ‘Bombay Blood’ — after searching for people across the country. According to doctors, only four persons out of one million are found to have this blood group. As the first case of this rare blood was detected in Bombay by Dr YM Bhende in 1952, it is called Bombay Blood (also called HH group).

 Due to Ajoor’s condition, doctors decided to transfuse one unit of blood, and his treating doctor Dr Lydia Solomon sent his blood sample to the blood bank for arranging a transfusion. In the initial evaluation, the blood group was found to be ‘O’ Positive, but gradually, when more tests were conducted, it was found to be incompatible with all the blood groups. Then, Dr Aikaj Jindal — in-charge, Department of Transfusion Medicine — conducted advanced tests, in which it was detected that the patient was found to have the very rare Bombay Blood. Dr Jyotika and other doctors did a research at the national level to locate another such rare blood group donor. Doctors claim such rare blood group donors cannot receive blood from any other group.
 
 Their search led them to Sankalp India Foundation, an NGO, which further led them to a donor residing in a village near Mohali. Harjinder Singh, the donor, was then contacted by CMCH. After a full test of his blood, it was transfused to the patient, which helped in his further treatment.
 
 Speaking on this rare event, CMCH medical superintendent Dr Anil Luther congratulated the entire team for their efforts and relentless pursuit for better patient care. He added that an advanced immuno-haematology testing had led to identification of the rare blood group, which would have otherwise been missed, and the patient’s life could have been in jeopardy. 
 
 Donated blood 20 times
 
 Harjinder Singh of Kambala village near Mohali has donated blood 20 times in the past 12 years, ever since he came to know he had the rare Bombay Blood. Harjinder said his brother had fallen ill some 12 years ago, and doctors had suggested transfusing his blood. It was then they came to know his brother had the rare group. He said his blood was also tested and he too was found to have the same blood group. Singh said that later, he formed a Whatsapp group of people having the rare Bombay Blood. He keeps adding people having this rare blood type, so that in times of need, they are able to help anyone in need. He said in Punjab, there are only three people having this blood group, as apart from him and his brother, one lady in Bathinda had the same group, but she is now dead. He also revealed that his number is registered in PGI, and he goes there when anybody needs blood of this rare group. 
 
 What is Bombay Blood Group?
 
 Bombay Blood is also called the HH group. A person with this blood group does not express the H antigen, which is present in the O blood group. A or B antigens are found missing in the red blood cells of such persons, who can donate their blood to anybody, but can receive it only from those having the same Bombay Blood. 
 
 
