HYDERABAD: A day after Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences ( ) issued government orders on its website over collection of fee for post-graduate medical (PG) and dental seats, candidates and doctors are mulling filing a contempt petition in the  .

 Last year, the Telangana government had hiked the fee for post-graduate medical and dental seats, following which several qualified candidates had raised objections. After a petition was filed by students, complaining of exorbitant fee hike, the Hyderabad High Court had granted partial relief to the students by modifying the government order on the fee structure, according to which qualified candidates were allowed to pay 50 per cent of the fee and execute a personal bond for the balance 50 per cent of the fee.
 
 With the commencement of the admission process for academic year 2018-19, students have again raised objections over KNRUHS’s move to collect full fee. “The university should mention in the notification that 50 per cent of fees has to be paid by PG students of 2018-19 batch and by obtaining necessary bonds for rest of fees according to interim order until final order is passed by the High Court. If university and colleges collect full fees, we will file contempt petition in High Court,” said Dr  , president of Health Reforms and Doctors' Association.
 
 Members of   will be represented the case to the university on Monday. “We will first represent the issue to the university and ask them to modify the notification as it is misleading qualified candidates who will be seeking admissions this year,” said HRDA president.
 
 Candidates fear that based on the notification issued by KNRUHS, private colleges may also seek full fee payment. “It issued the notification much before the counselling process began. The university has nowhere mentioned that the fee has to be paid as per the interim order passed last year,” said a qualified candidate.
 
 When TOI contacted KNRUHS vice-chancellor  , he said that the interim order was only applicable for the academic year 2017-18 batch and is not valid for those seeking admissions this year.
 
