CHENNAI: The recent   protests has brought to the fore yet again the simmering feud within the   with many senior leaders ignoring   chief S Thirunavukkarasar’s call to unite for a cause. The party has failed to put up a united front even as Congress-led Siddaramaiah government has put up a strong show in Karnataka against the formation of Cauvery Management Board. 

 Only 35 out of 72 DCC presidents took part in the executive committee meet convened by TNCC chief last week to discuss the party’s strategies, while others loyal to different factional leaders stayed away. Major opposition parties and even fringe groups made their presence felt with aggressive participation in the demonstrations against the Centre, as some senior TNCC leaders fumed over the party’s failure to capitalize on the Cauvery issue. Their grouse is that neither are the senior leaders taken into confidence nor are they informed about the protest in advance. So, former TNCC chief,   took his supporters to   in the city on the day of Narendra Modi’s visit, sporting black shirt and setting off pigeons with messages against the PM. 
 
 “If our voice is not heard, he (TNCC chief) is responsible. Congress has failed to commiserate with the people on the Cauvery issue, appointment of Anna University vice-chancellor M S Surappa (a native of Karnataka) and dilution of SC Act,” Elangovan told TOI. The state unit should have stood firm on playing a bigger role in the Cauvery dispute, even though it may be contrary to the Congress stand in Karnataka, Elangovan said. “We were not informed (about the protests). The cadres are not willing to work for Thirunavukkarasar,” he said.
 
 While the   and VCK’s Thirumavalavan consolidated and cemented their position within the   front, the Congress leaders say they are losing their position in the ‘alliance hierarchy’. It was the Left parties who were prominently portrayed along with DMK during the ‘Retrieve Cauvery’ padayatra undertaken by DMK working president M K Stalin in the delta region recently and not Congress, he said. “No instruction was forthcoming,” said a senior leader. Close associates of Thirunavukkarasar, however, said certain vested interests were working against the party high-command and that most cadres rallied behind the TNCC chief during agitations in district headquarters. All India Mahila Congress general secretary and MLA S Vijayadharani said the Cauvery resolution in the assembly had the solid backing of Congress. 
 
 
