COIMBATORE:   not only has a history of controversies in appointments but also a track record of harassing and silencing dissenters. Over the years, several teaching and non-teaching staff members have been systematically victimised by the university administration for raising their voice against irregularities. 

 A junior engineer, attached to the Bharathiar University SC/ST Teachers and Staff Welfare Association, got his promotion order withdrawn since he was actively opposing irregularities in appointments. 
 
 "I was supposed to get promoted in 2011 as an assistant executive engineer. After several efforts, I was given a promotion in 2015. But vice-chancellor A Ganapathi revoked the promotion order in December last year. While I remained a junior engineer, my colleagues were elevated to the next position," he said. 
 
 This is not a recent trend, said an assistant professor, who is also a member of the association. "In 2012, when   extended the temporary faculty positions of the 11th plan period to 12th plan period till 2017, we questioned him and asked him to revert the decision. But he sent me a notice asking me to vacate my quarters within two days," he said. "I got a stay order on that decision from the Madras HC. I have been staying in the quarters till now only because of the court order," he added.
 
 In 2016, when he filed a case against the overall roster and quota violations in the university, the administration delayed his wife's PhD viva by almost a year, he said. "My wife's PhD viva must have been held in January 2017. But I was asked to meet another professor, who said only if I withdraw my case, the viva will be held," he said. Following this, he said, he took up the issue with the  , after which the viva was held.
 
 In another incident, a teaching faculty was asked to vacate his room as he too had been questioning the irregularities in appointments.
 
 In November 2016, amid allegations of irregularities in recruitment of teaching faculty, the then registrar P S Mohan was unceremoniously relieved from his post by the university. He had then told TOI that he was kept in the dark about a communication from the higher education department asking the VC to stop the appointments. He had then said he refused to accept the relieving order, "because I have not erred to be sacked. Instead, I submitted my resignation stating that I cannot continue as the registrar-in-charge." 
 
 Also, in November last year, when there was a controversy over the alleged discrimination of an assistant-professor aspirant N  , she had alleged that Ganapathi had removed her husband, who was working on contract basis as a driver in the university. "He was removed from job by the university and he was insulted in the name of caste," she had then said.
 
 
