MUMBAI: Two days before the deadline to apply for Mumbai University’s vice-chancellor’s post, the appointment of the search committee that will choose a candidate is under a cloud. The SC, while hearing an application challenging the constitution of the committee, on Monday, said the VC’s appointment will be subject to the outcome of the case. Candidates had to apply to the committee by February 14.

 The petitioner, A D Sawant, a former MU pro-vice-chancellor, said the committee’s constitution is in contrary to the UGC regulations. He said the committee is liable to be quashed or a stay be granted on the process initiated by it. The SC has not stayed the process.
 
 Governor Ch Vidyasagar Rao, chancellor of state universities, appointed eminent scientist and former ISRO chief K Kasturirangan as chairman of the committee in October last year after former   Sanjay Deshmukh was asked to step down from the VC’s post. The state appointed Cidco vice-chairman Bhushan Gagrani as their nominee, while Shyam Lal Soni, director of NIT Uttarakhand, was Mumbai University’s nominee.
 
 In his application in an already pending special leave petition of 2013 filed during former vice-chancellor Rajan Welukar’s tenure, Sawant, claimed that Kasturirangan, despite being an eminent scientist, is not from the ‘sphere of higher education’, has ‘not worked in the university academic system’, and has ‘no exposure to higher education systems in India or abroad’ as prescribed by the UGC, said Sawant’s counsel Dilip Taur. The same was said about Gagrani, an IAS officer in the administrative field and therefore, described as lacking ‘academic excellence’. Taur added that none of the members were fit to assess the eligibility and qualifications of the applicants.
 
 Sawant told TOI:, “The state follows UGC norms while appointing professors and assistant professors; why are they selective in the VC’s appointment process. The last VC (Deshmukh) appointed by the search committee had to be asked to step down for mismanagement. In the past too, retired judges were appointed on the committee, who were not related to the field of academics.”
 
 But whether the current search committee will be dissolved to make way for new members can’t be said. In the past, a search panel under the chairmanship of Professor Andre Beteille from Delhi University was dissolved by the governor as issues on the constitutional validity of the panel arose. Later, a new committee appointed Welukar, whose appointment was questioned throughout his tenure. “If the government goes ahead with the current committee, the appointment will continue to be under a cloud till the pendency of the case,” said an MU official.
 
 
