His mission in life is to revive the 2,000-year-old Kousika river and save it for future generations. P K Selvaraj has been labouring for more than a decade to rejuvenate the almost dead Kousika. Working with the state government, he has succeeded in getting six check dams constructed across the river to store water. The government plans to construct six more such dams across the river. "If the flood water is stored in the river, the ground water level will increase and over 20,000 acres of agricultural land will benefit," said Selvaraj.

 A native of Vagarayampalayam in Coimbatore district, Selvaraj, 52, has been cultivating crops for more than three decades. "When I was 23, I began to plant tree saplings in my village and surrounding areas. But we could not grow them as we did not have enough water. It was then that I learned about the almost dead Kousika river and decided to rejuvenate it," said Selvaraj.
 
 The Kousika originates in the Kurudi hills at Narasimmanaickenpalayam and flows through Idikarai, Kovilpalayam, Vagarayampalayam, Thekkalur and Vanjipalayam for 48.7 km before draining into the Noyyal river. Whenever the catchment area gets heavy rain, the Kousika gets flooded. "We brought a few archaeologists to the river, where they conducted studies and said that the river was formed more than 2,000 years ago. But it was neglected for several decades. Coimbatoreans are familiar with only the Bhavani and the Noyyal. But they should not forget the almost dead Kousika. I am working with various people to revive the river," he said.
 
 Since 2008, Selvaraj has been working with the public works department. With the help of the state government, six check dams, each 1.5 metres high, were constructed across the Kousika. A check dam at Salaiyur near Kovilpalayam was renovated by the government at a cost of Rs 15 lakh. After this, flood water could be stored for a few months and the ground water level had increased in Salaiyur.
 
 "With the help of the state government, we prepared a Rs 87-crore proposal to construct six more check dams across the Kousika, besides other development projects. Villages coming under Sulur, Avinashi and Palladam taluks are drought-prone. If the Kousika is revived, these villages can get water and 20,000 acres of agricultural land will benefit. But the proposal is pending for more than two years," said Selvaraj.
 
 To save the river, Selvaraj formed the ‘Kousika River Development Association’, of which he is the secretary. The association works to create awareness among villagers in 21 panchayats on the need to revive the Kousika.
 
 "My aim is to revive the 2,000-year-old river as it will bring prosperity to future generations. People should come forward to save it," said Selvaraj.
 
 
