NEW DELHI: Chief Minister   and AAP MLAs would go to the JJ clusters and each household in the city to tell people that the government was bringing   but the “BJP did not let it happen.” Announcing this in   on Tuesday, Kejriwal attacked LG and the central government during a discussion on the budget and claimed that they were “hampering the work of the AAP government”. He singled out the LG for “not clearing” the doorstep delivery of ration.

 
 “I called upon the LG and requested him to clear the proposal. I am very sad that despite a CM’s request the LG did not consult me before rejecting the proposal,” CM said while speaking during the discussion on the annual budget in the Assembly.
 
 While taking on the central government on the escape of businessman   and the plight of traders due to sealing, Kejriwal patted the back of his own government and claimed that Delhi government has worked in three years more than what other states could not do in 70 years.
 
 Kejriwal accused the   of indulging in “dirty politics” and claimed that the BJP was “stalling” the work of the AAP government by using the bureaucracy. On Monday the Speaker had said that “LG has in a letter advised that, legally, the speaker of Delhi assembly cannot admit any question on any reserved subject” and answers to a question regarding the official foreign trips undertaken by officers of Delhi government during the last 15 years were not given.
 
 Claiming that the budget in the parliament was passed without discussion, deputy CM   said that the AAP government allowed enough room to the opposition members to speak on the budget discussion. 
 
 The leader of opposition   claimed that the central government has been generous in providing financial assistance to the AAP government despite the fact that the Delhi government has been regularly cursing the central government.
 
 Meanwhile, Speaker adjourned the Assembly for half an hour as a mark of protest after the home department “declined” to give a reply to a question related to the constitution of thana (police station) level committees in the city. A question on steps taken to prevent illegal plying of buses in the city was forwarded to the question and reference committee and the question related to the constitution of thana level committee was forwarded to the privilege committee of the Assembly.
 
