CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s cradles, which won the state government plaudits world over for saving babies from infanticide, are increasingly going empty. For some, the decline spells hope that the birth of a girl is finally being seen as reason to celebrate. On the ground, the unoccupied cribs is a worrying sign: It could mean more unborn infants are being killed. 

 Since its launch in 1992,   government’s flagship Cradle Baby Scheme has saved 5,128 infants, including 4,111 girls. At a time when other states in the country are replicating its success in checking infanticide, fewer babies are being given away under the scheme here. In 2017, 104 babies were either “surrendered” by parents or abandoned. This is the lowest the state has received since 2001.
 
 The reception center in Salem, where the project was inaugurated 25 years ago, received one infant last year. From 2000 to 2010, the district on an average, had received 92 babies every year under the scheme before the decline set in. Dharmapuri, which along with Salem, account for 2,511 of the 5,128 ‘cradle babies’, had 13 infants in its cribs. These same cribs had at one point sheltered close to 200 babies in a single year (in 2003). 
 
 “It is worrying,” said director of social welfare V Amuthavalli, echoing the concern voiced by officials in other state departments, including health. Some of the districts that have shown a decline in ‘cradle babies’, including Cuddalore and Tiruvannamalai, are also the ones where the sex ratio at birth -- number of girls born per 1,000 boys – is skewed. 
 
 According to the Tamil Nadu Health Management Information System, the sex ratio at birth in the state has dipped to 911 in 2016-17 from 923 in 2011-12, with the gender gap being wider in most north and central districts compared to the southern districts. 
 
 “The decline in cradle babies is a strong indication of increase in foeticide,” said Amuthavalli. But there could be other reasons, some equally troubling. Recently, an investigation by the district social welfare officer (DSWO) in Ariyalur led officials to a broker who had “booked” a baby in advance from an impoverished woman who was on her eighth pregnancy.
 
 To check illegal adoption and sex-selective abortions, the social welfare department is now closely monitoring pregnant women – especially higher order births -- along with the health department. “We are keeping a track of women who have had a girl in their first pregnancy. They are more likely to commit foeticide if scans reveal the second one is a girl too,” said director of public health K Kulandaisamy. 
 
 In 1992, it was a report on widespread female infanticide in Usilampatti, a nondescript town in Madurai, that prompted the then J Jayalalithaa-led government to introduce the Cradle Baby Scheme. Families that did not want a girl child could leave them in cradles placed in hospitals, and they were later handed over to specialised adoption agencies through the child welfare committees. The state has, at present, ten reception centers in various districts that exclusively shelter these ‘unwanted’ babies. Although primarily intended for girls, officials, through the scheme, could save more than 1,000 male children. 
 
 And, in many instances, children who are differently abled. In Dharmapuri, four of the 13 babies received at the reception center last year had congenital anomalies. “The parents were desperate. Some of the mothers wanted to keep the children but they clearly had no resource to take care of them,” said Revathy. 
 
 The rest were girls. One was a boy, social welfare staff found abandoned at the door step of the reception center. “It was one of those rare days. Most of the boys are given away only if they are born out of wedlock,” said Revathy. To surrender the child, parents sign an undertaking. The   (CWC) gives them 60 days to rethink their decision before putting up the infants in the adoption list. Across the state around 200 couples returned to reclaim their children. Around 3,800 infants were adopted by couples within India and abroad.
 
 The dip in the number of cradle babies has translated into fewer infants in the state’s adoption list. “There was a point in time when we had more children waiting to be adopted and fewer parents wishing to adopt. The trend has now changed,” said director of social defence R Lalvena. He said the shift calls for an investigation. “Parents wanting to adopt should avoid going through agents when the state has a solid mechanism in place,” he said.
 
 Officials say doctors, scan centers and sometimes even the police facilitate illegal adoptions – another contributing factor for the decline in cradle babies. “The problem is they aren’t sensitized. Many of them seem to be unaware of who to approach when they find an abandoned baby,” said Saroja Thiruvengadam, who retired as the deputy director of the social welfare department last year. 
 
 She recalled an incident a few years ago when a police inspector gave away a baby found abandoned on the road to a vegetable vendor who, in turn, gave the infant to a childless couple. “The couple approached the respective district collector after the vendor started harassing them for money,” said Saroja. The couple later re-adopted the baby. 
 
 The decrease in the number of ‘cradle babies’ could be a positive trend too, say a section of officials. “We have to look at it comprehensively,” said Kulandaisamy. “It is an indicator of foeticide if we look at the skewed child sex ratio at birth in some districts, but it could also be a sign that fewer people are giving away their girls if we look at other parameters like the growing literacy among women,” he said. “But we can’t pat ourselves thinking all is well. We have to be on the alert,” he quickly added.
 
 Recognising the rampant violation of the Pre-Conception and PreNatal Diagnostic Techniques Act, 1994, health officials have been cracking down on illegal scan centres, unethical doctors and quacks. In the last one year, the government has initiated action against at least 12 doctors and scanning centers for undertaking sex-determination tests. But the exercise is herculean as a crackdown in one district means movement of couples and doctors to another district. 
 
 “So long we were focusing on seven districts, primarily Tiruvannamalai and Cuddalore. Now we have stepped up vigil in two more districts – Trichy and Madurai -- following complaints,” said M Kamala Kannan, superintendent, Directorate of Medical Services. In the most recent instance, in February this year, the department sealed a hospital in   where more than 500 abortions, suspected to be sex-selective abortions, were performed. Many of them go scot-free because of lack of sufficient evidence. “Few couples agree to be witnesses,” he said. 
 
 
  
 
 In the meanwhile, a section of activists have decried the cradle baby scheme itself saying it legitimises abandonment of children. In 2016, the Madras high court’s Madurai bench asked the state government on steps taken to educate parents, asking it how much longer was the scheme required to be run.   on the Rights of the Child too rapped the scheme in its last report saying all children have a right to be cared for by biological parents which the state should ensure.
 
 As families mull over celebrating, killing or abandoning their girl children and officials ponder over how to curb these murders and reduce desertion, there is a message of hope from orphanages: “Childless couples are increasingly adopting girls,” said the proprietor of an adoption agency in Chennai. 
 
