LUCKNOW: As many as six former UP chief ministers, including present home minister Rajnath Singh, Rajasthan governor Kalyan Singh, SP patriarch  , BSP chief   and SP president  , are set to lose their swanky bungalows at a stroke of  's Monday judgement.

 
 Situated at the heart of the state capital and sprawling over an area as big as 2,100 sq mt (almost half the size of a hockey field), thes ebungalows have, however, been attracting a paltry monthly rent ranging between Rs 2,500 and Rs 4,200, records available with the UP estate department show The judgment could especially hit   and Mayawati who are neither a member of parliament nor of UP legislature.
 
 
 
 In fact, Akhilesh, who moved into palatial 4-Vikramaditya Marg bungalow only a year ago after demitting the office of UP CM in March 2017, retired from UP legislative council on May 5, barely two days before the SC judgement. Mayawati, too, resigned from   in July last year in protest against not being allowed to speak on the issue of atrocities against Dalits.
 
 Records show that the constructed area of these bungalows, which once had large open space, increased manifold since the time of their allotment to respective occupants. For instance, the constructed area of Mayawati's bungalow in posh Mall Avenue locality increased from just around 790 sq mt in 1995 to over 2,100 sq mt (almost half an acre) as on date.
 
 The massive expansion came about after 2007 when the BSP stormed into power with absolute majority and ordered annexation of a cane commissioner's office neighbouring her 13-Mall Avenue residence. Her renovated bungalow also includes a memorial -- Manyavar Kanshi Ram Yadgaar Sthal -- in the name of BSP founder Kanshi Ram. Guess the monthly rent: It’s only Rs 4,212. So has been the case with Mulayam's 5-Vikramaditya Marg bungalow with sprawling lawns and wide setback areas. According to records, the constructed area of SP patriarch's bungalow rose from just over 400 sq mt in 1990 to well over 2,400 sq mt now. This bungalow, too, attracts a monthly rent of Rs 4,212.
 
 According to records, the government bungalow of Union home minister, Rajnath Singh and former UP CM Narayan Dutt Tewari are relatively smaller. Singh's bungalow situated at 4-Kalidas Marg has a constructed area of around 700 sq mt, while Tewari's 1-A Mall Avenue bungalow has a constructed area of just over 1,050 sq mt.
 
 Cabinet minister and UP government spokesperson,   said that the state government would be going through the SC order and the guidelines before taking further steps.
 
 An NGO, Lok Prahari, had in 2016 challenged the amendments made by erstwhile Akhilesh Yadav government to the 'UP Ministers (Salaries, Allowances and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1981'. It had also challenged another UP law of 2016 called 'The Allotment of Houses under Control of the Estate Department Bill-2016' to regulate the allotment of government accommodations to trusts, journalists, political parties, speaker and deputy speaker of legislative assembly, judicial officers and government officials.
 
