PUNE: Women passengers have made their disapproval of the transport body’s call to stop operation of   on Sundays from May 6 quite evident.

 While officials of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) claimed that the service sees little to no passengers on Sundays, women pointed out that getting seats in regular   buses remains a major issue. The transport body should re-consider the decision, stated women passengers.
 
 “Of the 130 mid-sized buses launched until now, 30 have been converted to all-women or   buses. They were launched two months ago in a phased manner and they have been performing decently when it comes to the passenger load factor. However, on Sundays and holidays, these buses are virtually empty. Hence, a decision was taken not to run these 30 buses on Sundays from May onwards,” a PMPML official told TOI.
 
 Suman Joshi, who uses the service frequently, was furious. “Does the PMPML want to say that all women stay indoors on Sundays? This is a bad decision and doesn’t solve anything. I frequently visit my relatives on Sundays and cannot afford the autorickshaw fare,” said Joshi, a   resident.
 
 The PMPML official said that women could use regular PMPML buses on Sundays. “We need to keep the profit and loss factor in mind. Regular PMPML buses have seats reserved for women. Moreover, the all-women buses are limited to certain routes and so we do not feel that closing them down on Sundays will have any major impact,” the official pointed out.
 
 However, Kothrud resident   differed. “Though I can afford to travel in autorickshaws, I tend to take buses frequently. PMPML boasts that there are seats reserved for women but, most of the times, the seats are occupied by men and asking them to get up leads to arguments. We have been complaining about this since long but the authorities are least bothered.”
 
 Authorities explained that the issue was being addressed. “Instructions have been passed on to conductors about not letting men occupy seats reserved for women in case the bus is packed. We might start to fine them but a decision on the same is still to be taken. There will be more all-women buses coming up in the future and the frequency and routes will be increased,” the official stated.
 
