The   is now banking much on its outreach programme to put a stop on the practice of open defecation on the train tracks. 

 "The (outreach) programme aims to sensitise people, primarily those living in the slums and colonies, to stop dumping garbage and defecating on tracks. We have also urged them to prevent grazing of cattle along the tracks. If a train runs over any cattlehead, passenger safety will be a concern," said Krishnath Patil, senior divisional commercial manager.
 
 PMC corporator   said, "The Railways has constructed a a compound wall and installed iron mesh along the tracks on Solapur line. But the work of constructing a wall on Miraj line is also in progress. There are no complaints of garbage and open defecation on Solapur line."
 
 There are over 20 slums between Dapodi and Nigdi and the residents are dumping garbage on tracks because the   is not lifting garbage on a daily basis, Vijay Shahpurkar from Kasarwadi said. "The number of dustbins is less. Non-availability of water in the toilets is forcing residents to defecate on the tracks," he added.
 
 Activist Bhausaheb Mugutmal said, "PCMC has constructed toilets at Dapodi slums but many avoid using it because of low water pressure. The situation has compelled residents to defecate on the train tracks." 
 
 Suchismita Pai, Outreach function head of NGO Swacch, said, "As per the 2011 census, there are 2.5 lakh homes in slums and we have sensitised residents of 85,000 homes. We don't have good recycle bins. Change will come if people start believing what we are doing is good for them." 
 
 Arun Khilare, assistant commissioner of PMC's Dhole Patil Road ward office, said, "Complaints relating to garbage dumping and open defecation at the Pune railway station and Koregaon Park are few. We are encouraging the slum dwellers and people in housing societies to segregate waste. We collect around 125 tonnes of garbage on a daily basis. We have started prosecuting people dumping garbage under section 14 (e) (f) of the BPMC Act." 
 
 PCMC joint commissioner Dilip Gawade said they had recently conducted a survey at Chinchwad railway station and discovered water leaks from the public toilet on to the tracks. "The problem has been rectified. We are ready to offer assistance to the Railways for patrolling and preventing people from creating nuisance." 
 
 
