MUMBAI: The political crisis in the state seems to be deepening as the beleaguered Devendra Fadnavis ministry braces to face a hostile opposition over the caste issue. With reports emanating from the heartland that the Maratha Maha Sangh plans to revive its pro-reservation stir next month, observers said the situation appears grim for the CM. 

 The Maratha community’s demand that the antiatrocities Act should be toned down is making Dalit organisations restive, they said. Many in the state BJP feel that Sharad Pawar’s NCP is targeting Fadnavis. “It is politically convenient for them to dub the government casteist as the CM belongs to the Brahmin community,” said a state BJP veteran, adding, “NCP is playing the Maratha card to perpetuate the caste conflict in Maharashtra.” 
 
 Life came to a standstill in many districts, including Pune, Satara, Kolhapur, Jalgaon, Aurangabad and coastal Konkan too-—regions which are considered bastions of traditional political parties such as the BJP,  , Congress and NCP. Second, that the simmering caste conflict, largely considered a rural issue, should cripple Mumbai for a good 10 hours has sent alarm bells ringing in the BJP, given the city's status as the country’s financial capital, said observers. BJP national president   has been closely monitoring the situation in Mumbai, it is learned. 
 
 The party high command asked Fadnavis in the early hours of Wednesday to handle the law and order situation calmly. “This explains why the Mumbai police did not come down heavily on Dalit protesters on the city’s streets,” said a key party functionary. “The whole idea was to let them vent their spleen,” he added. 
 
 He admitted that the well-oiled networking of Dalits across Mumbai was “amazing”. “A lot of planning seems to have gone into the stir,” he said. Many in the BJP admit that the party is paying a price for failing to curb the hawks who keep blowing the Hindutva trumpet with scant regard for the state’s inclusive character. 
 
 Meanwhile, Bharatiya Republican Party chief Prakash Ambedkar, who spearheaded-—with ample backing from 12 Dalit groups—the statewide bandh, has made matters difficult for Fadnavis by demanding that   and   should be arrested and tried under Section 302 of the IPC. Bhide of the Shiv Pratishthan, and Ekbote of the  , have been accused by the opposition Congress-NCP combine, Left parties and Dalit bodies, of fanning communal hatred on the eve of the Mahar conclave at  , near Pune, on Monday. “The Dalit stir will continue as long as the two Hindutva fanatics are not packed off to jail,” said Dangle.
