NAGPUR: Flaying the Maharashtra government for its failure to develop  , the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday tersely asked what steps it had taken to promote the world heritage site and attract tourists.

 Expressing anguish over government’s apathy in preserving the historic lake, a division bench comprising justices Vasanti Naik and Swapna Joshi directed it to reply within two weeks.
 
 The court’s censure came while hearing a PIL by lawyer   along with Govind Khekale and   from Buldhana, through counsel Anand Parchure, claiming the Lonar lake was slowly degrading because of pollution and silting.
 
 Earlier, the HC’s specially constituted panel — Lonar Reservoir Damage Control and Conservation Committee — under Buldhana collector, submitted minutes of meeting held on February 6. Parchure then pointed out that it had failed to submit compliance of earlier meetings.
 
 The judges directed the panel to regularly conduct meetings every two months, and submit compliance reports of earlier meetings, and development works being completed. 
 
 As per minutes, one of the main threats to ecology was dumping of sewage into the reservoir from a nullah, but the civic body informed that it will counter the problem by reinforcing the metal mesh at its mouth and tender has been issued in this regard. It would also ensure that nearby residents don’t damage the metal frame once reinforced.
 
 The Groundwater Survey and Development Agency (GSDA) conducted lake’s survey and found the number of borewells has increased. But since no one from the   was present in the meeting, the collector had asked the agency to reply at the earliest, the minutes stated.
 
 The Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation’s (MTDC) regional office in Amravati informed that the fund for tourism development was revised from Rs93 crore to Rs91.29 crore. A compound wall and an information kiosk would be constructed on the land offered to MTDC. The forest department would repair the chain link fencing near the protected areas. 
 
 The additional forest officer (AFO) has assured that complaints will be filed against persons who damage the fence. He proposed to clear area near the lake of babool trees. About 25,885 trees of this variety are spread over 33 hectares and under the proposed five-year management plan, the trees will be removed and replaced with naturally growing shrubs which would cost Rs45.74 lakh.
 
 As per the panel’s minutes, about 314 dwellings of slum dwellers living in close vicinity were completed and were unoccupied since three years. It further informed that most of the work of toilet blocks has been completed and would be available for use in 15 days, while toilets for tourists are proposed to be built under the jurisdiction of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).
 
 
