MOHALI: Sinking of the retaining wall supporting the main structure because of poor   led to the collapse of the four-storeyed building of a housing society at   in Zirakpur on Thursday, a preliminary investigation revealed on Friday.

 The retaining wall was at the farther end of the building adjoining the edge of the Ghaggar river bed.
 
 Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Paramjit Singh, during the preliminary inspection, observed the soil was not compressed properly before erecting the pillars supporting the building in Imperial Garden. As a result, the soil sank and the building came crashing down. No soil testing was also done before starting the  , Singh said.
 
 Residents living in other housing towers near Imperial Garden alleged the project had been constructed on land once a hub for illegal mining. “The building was under threat due to faulty foundation, said residents.
 
 The SDM said, “The final report will be submitted only after the debris is removed and the area cleared of the rubble. But it has been ascertained the collapse occurred due to sinking of the foundation of the building. We have taken samples of the construction material and they will be sent for testing.” “The cement-sand concrete mixture was also not as per specifications. The quality of bricks was also poor. The iron bars used were undersize, as 25mm size is recommended, but the specification seemed below 20 mm. The other building material used was also not as per safety standards set by the Bureau of Indian Standards,” the SDM said. He said the columns and pillars were of undersize and varied in thickness, one of the main reasons for the building not being able to take the load.
 
 Overhead water storage tanks did not confirm to safety standards and water pipes fitted did not bear ISI (Indian Standards Institute) mark. Coal tar was not used at the base before spreading mud to fix the tiles. The mud was loose and not even seasoned for compressing.
 
 No casualty was reported from the accident site and a team of 30 officials of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been working to remove the debris. They said it might take another three days to remove the debris.
 
 Staircases crashed last month
 
 Staircases of two floors in the building at Imperial Garden had collapsed last month, said labourers. They said the incident had gone unnoticed, but three labourers sustained injuries. “The three were climbing the staircases when it came crashing down. Luckily, they did not fall from the second floor. The matter was hushed up,” a labourer said.
 
 
 
 
 Sub-divisional magistrate Paramjit Singh said a separate inquiry would be conducted to find out how the building plans were approved by the municipal corporation officials. Police have booked then councillor  , then estate officer, superintending engineer, sub-divisional officer, architect, building plan approval officer and the building inspector.
 
 
 
 Even as the police have booked 11 partners of  , all of them are yet to be caught. They were booked on charges of endangering life or personal safety of others, negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing buildings and cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property, said investigating officer sub-inspector  . The FIR was registered against O P Singla, Mandeep Singla, Amit Singla, Pawan Aggarwal, Parveen Kumar, Sunil Aggarwal, Pushwinder Goyal, Suresh Singla, Vinod Kumar and two others.
 
 
