NEW DELHI: Sports minister   acknowledged on Tuesday that some of the promising talent may not be on display at the ongoing inaugural edition of the   (KISG) due to the impending Board exams. However, he informed that such students shouldn't feel disheartened as the government would soon be launching the 'Khelo India College (University) Games' on the lines of the   by next year.

 
 Rathore, interacting with the mediapersons on the sidelines of the meeting of the   (TIDC) to take stock of the talent on offer at the KISG, admitted that the government had no option but to organise the KISG close to the   papers and other state-level school exams since the ministry didn't want to hamper India's progress as a sporting nation.
 
 "This year, we had two options. One among them was an easy one….to organise the KISG in 2019 due to the paucity of time and having the dates so close to the exams. But we firmed up our resolve that we had to do it now. The clock was ticking away and we had to take the opportunity because, as a nation, we couldn't have waited more to excel in the sporting world," Rathore said.
 
 "There's a possibility that because we have organised these Games so close to the exams, some promising kids may not have come. But, they haven't missed a big deal. We would soon be having the college games on the lines of the 'College Games of America'. These kids know that KISG is a great platform. I would urge all those studying in the 8th, 9th or the 10th standard to start preparing now. Their parents should send them to good coaches so that they can participate in the KISG for next 3-4 years and then graduate to the college-level games," the minister added.
 
 Sports secretary   said KISG could see an increase in the number of disciplines from 16 to 18 in its second edition, which has been tentatively planned for December this year. "After the KISG-Season 2, college games would be organised in 2019 in the same 18 disciplines. Apart from those athletes, who are receiving scholarships under the KISG schemes and have enrolled in colleges, the (university) games would also see the participation of athletes selected by our TIDC, talent scouts,   (AIU) and sports federations," Bhatnagar told TOI.
 
 On the issue of overage players being nominated by the federations to participate in the KISG, Bhatnagar said the ministry went by the age-verification certificate submitted by the   (SGFI) and the national sports federations (NSFs). 
 
 
