BHUBANESWAR:  , the oldest university of the state, and five other institutions of national repute will create academic linkages between them to focus on teaching, research, field work and sharing of ideas. A committee has been formed to start the programme. 

 The national institutions like Regional Medical Research Centre, Institute of Life Sciences (ILS), Institute of Physics, Institute of Minerals and Materials Technology and National Institute of Science Education and Research will collaborate with the Utkal University for the programme.
 
 University vice-chancellor Soumendra Mohan Patnaik said the principal scientific adviser to the Centre had suggested the Union government to ensure academic collaboration between universities and institutions of national repute for mutual benefit and academic growth. The Union ministry of human resource development selected 10 leading universities of the country to start the collaborations. It has chosen Utkal University and other national institutions from Odisha for this purpose, he added. 
 
 A committee has been formed under the chairmanship of Patnaik to start the academic collaborations. The ILS director,  , is the co-chair of the committee. Directors and professors of the national institutions are members of the committee.
 
 Convener of the committee Jagnehswar Dandapat, a professor of the university, said the collaboration will not only help the students and scholars but also bring in a lot of fresh ideas to improve the academic environment of the university. 
 
 "Through this programme, we can call their faculty members to guide our students and deliver lectures on a particular subject. Even our students can access laboratories and other resources of the national institutions," said Dandapat. 
 
 He added, "Their students can also use our facilities. We can have research programmes and field works jointly. The institutions can share ideas between them on latest developments." 
 
 The ILS director said they will also invite   (IIT)- Bhubaneswar and   (AIIMS) here and other prestigious institutions to participate in the programme. "Later we will sign memorandum of understanding with the institutions to formally start the initiative," he added. 
 
 
