CHENNAI:   is well placed to come back to power if assembly elections in the state are held now and if an alliance between the   and   materialises, as indicated in a column in AIADMK mouthpiece  , say partymen. DMK leaders dubbed it a ‘faux pas’ that’s bound to impact the AIADMK prospects, when there is a “strong anti-Modi sentiment in Tamil Nadu”. 

 After the 2004 Lok Sabha elections when it sewed up a grand alliance, DMK once again has all the opposition parties on its side, barring   and  . DMK has led opposition parties in all the Cauvery protests organised by it. Upbeat party leaders told TOI that it was advantage DMK as evident from the response to the various protests organised since the death of former chief minister  . They say the recent success of the Cauvery protests has drawn the opposition to its side.
 
 DMK working president   was quick to exploit the AIADMK’s ‘embarrassment’, chiding both the parties for punishing  . “Whether it is NEET or Cauvery, both parties have joined hands in not providing relief to Tamil Nadu. It is 100% true that the AIADMK and the BJP are a double barrelled gun,” Stalin told reporters in Pudukottai where he participated in the human chain protest. 
 
 “All parties with DMK participated in the padayatra along with Stalin. Leaders of the various parties have participated in the protests and have criticised AIADMK. If elections are held now, DMK may repeat the 2004 Lok Sabha performance,” said a senior DMK leader not willing to be named. 
 
 Analysts feel BJP is banking more on actor Rajnikanth than AIADMK in Tamil Nadu. “There is anti-incumbency for BJP and AIADMK in Tamil Nadu. But the BJP strategy is to make people feel bad about AIADMK as well DMK on the issue of Cauvery and NEET. It is looking at alternatives in states like Tamil Nadu, since in 2019, BJP may not get an absolute majority, based on its performance in northern states,” said JNU professor and political analyst Ajai Gudavarthy. He said if the DMK is able overcome the BJP plan, it will definitely win large number of seats. 
 
 
