PUNE: The local military authority in Pune reopened two roads in the cantonment area for civilian traffic on Tuesday bringing to an end years of struggle by citizens against the “abrupt and arbitrary” closure of these thoroughfares. 

 The Elite Lines Road which connects Ghorpadi to Koregaon Park was closed after the German Bakery blast in 2010 and the Right Flanks Road which links Wanowrie Bazaar to Pune Camp and closed on July 1, 2013. Both were reopened.
 
 A third road from Sangamwadi to Deccan College Road near   and Centre (BEG), Khadki which was closed in 2012 will be opened on Wednesday once the wall blocking it is pulled down. 
 
 Defence minister  , chief of army staff General Bipin Rawat and defence secretary Sanjay Mitra, reviewed the reports filed by chief executive officers of 62 cantonments on the status of the closed roads and whether due process, such as inviting suggestions and objections from public and issuance of public notices, was followed before closing them. 
 
 As a first step, the defence ministry on Sunday directed that all closed roads in the cantonments “shall be reopened immediately” and any closure of roads to be undertaken in future will be done only after following due process. A simplified Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for closure of roads in cantonments is also to be released soon. 
 
 Residents and elected representatives from Ghorpadi, Wanowrie and Khadki areas celebrated the reopening of the three roads. They said they were using these thoroughfares for years and had to suffer in the last six to eight years due to the arbitrary decision by the army authorities. 
 
 A senior Pune Sub Area officer told TOI, “We received a communication from the ministry on Monday evening following which we discussed the security aspects relating to the defence establishments on these roads and then decided to reopen the roads. A group of officers will further review the security soon and based on their findings, a report will be sent to the authorities for further course of action.”
 
 The officer said night security would be a major concern on these roads. “We may establish some check points and the day time security will be enhanced at each defence establishment,” he said.
 
 Managing civilian traffic will be a challenge, army sources said. “The Elite Lines Road is narrow and doesn’t have the capacity to take on heavy vehicular traffic,” the sources added. 
 
 Another senior army officer, who did not wish to be named, said, the traffic department of the Pune police should set certain rules for commuters. “Wearing of helmets is mandatory while riding inside an army campus. Vehicle users must follow this norm. They should not halt or stand outside defence establishments and cooperate with our effort to maintain security,” the officer added.
 
 A senior Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) official said, “ The LMA will have to submit such a proposal to the PCB general body for discussion and issue a public notice and invite suggestions and objections after such a proposal is passed by the general body.”
 
 An official from the Director General Defence Estates said, “We will formulate a new SOP on closure of cantonment roads and it would be approved by the defence ministry. There are some important roads which cannot be for public use. As such, some of the reopened roads will have to be closed again after following due process.”
 
 
