Actors   and   were snubbed by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, which announced its nominations for the 2018 Oscars today. Both Hanks and Franco, who were in contention for Best Actor nomination, were left out by the Academy while   earned his maiden nod for 'Get Out'. 

  
  
 While   earned her maiden Oscar nod in the Best Actress category, her film 'I, Tonya' failed to get nomination in Best Picture category. Patty Jenkins helmed 'Wonder Woman' was entirely snubbed at the 90th Academy Awards nominations. However, the Best Director nod for   was a win for women in Hollywood. 
 
 'Call Me By Your Name' bagged four nominations, including Best Actor nod for   making him the youngest actor at 22 to be receive the recognition. However,   lost on Best Director nod for the film. While   picked up his first Best Director nomination for 'Dunkirk', veteran filmmaker   was a notable exclusion from the Best Director list. 
 
 Franco was expected to be nominated in the Best Actor category for his portrayal of filmmaker Tommy Wiseau in 'The Disaster Artist', which he directed. The allegations of sexual harassment which surfaced post his Best Actor Golden Globe win also cost him his maiden nod as the Best Director. Unlike his 'The Post' co-star  , who bagged her 21st Oscar nomination, Hanks was overlooked in the Best Actor category. 
 
 In the wake of allegations of sexual misconduct against Kevin Spacey, Christopher Plummer replaced the 'House of Cards' actor in the Ridley Scott's 'All The Money In The World'. The gamble seems to have paid off with Plummer receiving a nomination in the Supporting Actor category. In a surprise nomination, Mary J Blige earned her maiden Oscar nod as she was nominated in the Best Supporting Actress category for 'Mudbound'. 
 
 She also became the first artiste to be nominated for a performance and an original song in the same year. Octavia Specer is now on par with Viola Davis as the most nominated African-American actress of all time. She has been nominated for 'The Shape of Water', becoming the only black actress to be nominated again following an Oscar win ("Hidden Figures"). 
 
 Greta Gerwig has become the fifth woman to be recognised at the directors round table in the Oscars history. The debutante director has been nominated for 'Lady Bird'. Jordan Peele achieved a rare feat after he became the first person of colour to be ever nominated for directing, writing, and producing in the same year. 
 
 Peele is only the fifth black person to be nominated for Best Director for his film 'Get Out'. 
 
  
  
  
  
