The smiles on faces of class X school toppers stretched further when they came to know that they had also bagged the first position in the state. “I was celebrating that I have topped in my school when my teachers told me that I had secured the first position in the state. I was on top of the world,” said Shreya Bhagat, who secured 98.80% marks in ICSE.

 Shreya said that the mantra for sure success is to believe in oneself and adopt proper time management. “Following a set timetable for studying helps, but at the same time one should make sure not to waste any time at all,” she said .
 
 
  
 
 Prashashya Patel of  , who shared the honour by scoring same percentage, said that he was extremely nervous since morning and while checking the results.
 
 “I sat in front of the computer almost half an hour before the results were to be announced and was continuously refreshing the page. I couldn’t believe my eyes that I had crossed the target of 95% I had set for myself and was just a few percentage points short of a full 100% marks,” said Prashashya.
 
 “It was a day of double joy for me as I have scored a centum in mathematics and also topped in the state. Scoring well in my next board examination and being all India engineering topper will be my next aim,” he said.
 
 Avni Tiwari, another state topper with the same percentage, was both happy and thrilled to see her result.
 
 “As I scrolled down to see my result, I saw a perfect hundred in mathematics, science and computer science. My happiness knew no limits. Later on, getting to know that I was also a state topper was icing on the cake,” said Avni.
 
 She said good marks in board examination have made her more confident and now she plans to pursue engineering in computer science from   in USA.
 
 Bagging the second position in the state with a score of 98.60%, Kushi Verma of   and Mabat Azaz of Al-Huda Model School said that they cannot describe their happiness in words.
 
 “I still cannot believe it that I am second topper in state. I believe there is no replacement for hard work and diligence,” said Kushi.
 
 “It’s a day of double delight, being both school and second state topper at the same time,” said Mabat.
 
