NEW DELHI: The   government came to power with a formidable majority — 67 out of 70. The ship is afloat with 66 now, but the story has changed a lot since February 2015. A few have turned rebels, a few have been suspended and two constituencies have witnessed bypolls. Now, with 20 MLAs staring at disqualification in the office-of-profit case, AAP faces a situation in which byelections may turn into a referendum on its performance. The party will be tested on its “pro-poor” agenda, its subsidy-driven governance and its core focus areas of education and health. Also with the Supreme Court verdict on powers of Centre and state due in February, the AAP story may see more twists and turns in public glare. 

 In the two bypolls in 2017, AAP lost Rajouri Garden and won Bawana. The seats had fallen vacant when Rajouri Garden MLA Jarnail Singh was made to resign to enable him to fight in the Punjab elections and Bawana MLA Ved Prakash quit to join the BJP. 
 
 Given the simple majority of 36 needed in a house of 70, the AAP government is under no threat of a collapse even if, for argument’s sake, it loses all 20 seats. However, with its formidable majority eroded, AAP could face the danger of not only losing its edge politically but also its moral posturing as a party with a difference. In any such eventuality, the Opposition will spring to life as it is at present a miniscule four of the BJP.
 
 Among the 46 AAP MLAs who will remain, if the disqualification of 20 comes through, there are quite a few who have rocked the boat and brought under scrutiny AAP’s ideology of fighting corruption and occupying the high moral ground. 
 
 They may technically be AAP MLAs, but the party has rebels like Kapil Mishra (Karawal Nagar) and Devendra Sehrawat (Bijwasan). While Sehrawat took on the ruling party in 2016, Mishra embarrassed the party and shocked the city with his allegations of corruption, particularly targeting Arvind Kejriwal and his minister, Satyendra Jain. AAP was quick to suspend the two from the party but their membership as MLAs was not cancelled. 
 
 There are others like Jitender Singh Tomar (Tri Nagar), Asim Ahmed Khan (Matia Mahal) and   (Sultanpuri) who continue as MLAs and AAP members but carry the tag of “sacked ministers.” All three were unceremoniously ousted by the ruling dispensation. Timarpur MLA Pankaj Pushkar has been seen as an AAP MLA once very critical of AAP’s policies and is considered close to   founder Yogendra Yadav. His hot-and-cold equation makes him stand out as a man the party chooses to address with caution.
 
 While both   and BJP are preparing to tear into AAP over the office-of-profit issue, the ruling party says it will fight back. Whatever the outcome, AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj has threatened to launch a public campaign to highlight case-wise the appointment of parliamentary secretaries across different states by both BJP and Congress. “We will highlight the case of the Congress government in Delhi too where a   to the CM was appointed by  ,” he added.
 
 “We will go out to the public and show them documents and make videos to explain the issue of office of profit and the notification on the apppointment of these parliamentary secretaries. They got no financial benefits, no perks. Yes, the order did say that that they use an official vehicle for work. Is that reason enough for disqualificaiton when these people got no benefits,” Bhardwaj asked. 
 
 It is learnt that the Delhi government has been giving a lot of emphasis on developmental work in these 20 assembly constituencies, sources in AAP said. However, the party agrees that garnering financial support to fight a fresh round of elections will be a challenge.
 
 
