PUNE: Instead of accepting job abroad, Dnyaneshwar  , currently serving as secretary in the ministry of external affairs (MEA), said that there were several opportunities in the neighbourhood that students could take up to improve the society and environment. 

 
 Mulay was delivering the convocation speech at the 113th convocation ceremony at the   on Friday evening. As many as 7,242 students passing out in the 2016-17 academic year or earlier were awarded degrees. A total of 11 students were awarded gold medals.
 
 While addressing the students, Mulay said, "Don't worry about the job vacancies or economic slowdown. Great opportunities do not necessarily come from overseas jobs, but one is just a glorified clerk of cyber coolie. Think differently and look around you. There are millions of opportunities awaiting you."
 
 He appealed students to consider Pune city and do something to revive the once beautiful rivers -   and   that are lifelines of the city. He said, "Students must think how they can create local jobs by using the abundant skilled manpower in the city. Can we make Pune the cleanest city in the country by creating a civic movement for cleanliness? He pursued students to resolve the traffic problem of the city by usage of technology or making use of some transformative ideas that are lying idle in the minds of students."
 
 He said that students should work towards making urban growth sustainable, create small and medium business in rural areas to save costs and preserve and process agricultural produce. Mulay said that, students will be remembered if they do something transformative in the suggested areas. He said that, the country's challenge lies in keeping the youth within the nation by creating an environment conducive to creativity, positivity and innovation.
 
 Most of the students that graduated were from the engineering and management studies. A total of 11 gold medalists were also felicitated at the function in presence of vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar.
 
 
