NEW DELHI:   today witnessed chaotic scenes after   MLA from Sonawari,  , raised pro-Pakistan slogans in the house.

 
  Later, Lone said that he was "provoked" to raise the slogans after BJP MLAs started raising anti-Pakistan slogans in the assembly.
 
 "Yes, I said it. It is my personal view, I said it in the house and I don't think anyone should have a problem with it,” Lone was quoted saying on ANI.
 
  
  
 BJP MLAs were raising slogans against Pakistan to protest the ongoing terrorist attack on the Sunjuwan Army camp in Jammu in early hours of Saturday.
 
 Following his comment, National Conference spokesperson, quoting party president  , said that Lone's action in the assembly are "unacceptable" and the party "disowns and condemns his remark".
 
  
  
  Endorsing the party's stand on the issue, senior leader   said that instead of getting "distracted" by "misplaced slogans", the focus should be on the ongoing terrorist attack.
 
  "Totally endorse my Party President’s views outlined in these two tweets. The party will say nothing more on this issue," he said in a tweet.
 
  
  
 Meanwhile, National Conference president warned Pakistan to stop promoting terrorism, or else, it would suffer serious consequences.
 
 "No day passes by without such incidents and terrorists are all coming from Pakistan. If Pak wants good relations with India they need to stop terrorism or it will have bad consequences. Sadly, I have to say if it continues India won't stop itself from waging war," he said.
 
  
  
 Earlier today, two Army officers were martyred in an attack by Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists on the Sunjuwan Army camp in Jammu in the early hours of Saturday.
 
 Following the attack, BJP leader and speaker of the assembly, Kavinder Gupta, suggested that the increasing population of Rohingyas and Bangladeshis in the region may have played a role in today's attack.
 
 "I live in that constituency, complaints have come from there and in a way government also accepts that number of Rohingyas and Bangladeshis is increasing and that they are a security threat," he said.
 
  
  
 
