TRICHY: This academic year onwards, city school students will receive a green report card besides the usual academic report card. The green report card has been proposed as a part of the   Corporation’s initiative to disclose the student’s   practices. 

 The civic body jointly with the respective school management will grade students based on the support shown by their households towards solid waste management (SWM) practices and accordingly a top performing student from every school in the city will be awarded a prize.
 
 Coined as ‘Student @ Clean Trichy’, the contest will be exclusive for city schools and launched in June, coinciding with the first anniversary of the launch of waste segregation at source in the city. 
 
 While stating that segregation of waste as biodegradable and non-biodegradable at source itself needs more sensitisation, the civic body has planned to promote awareness on SWM practice through school children, as three-fourth of the city's households have school going children, as per the civic body’s statistics 
 
 A total of 205 schools including private and government institutes will distribute green report cards to students from June 2018 through the respective school managements. “The green report cards will have two questions - one will query whether segregation of waste at source is being practised at home and the second on the presence of two separate bins each for biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste,” said N Ravichandran, corporation commissioner.
 
 The month-long evaluation will be conducted in July with parents, sanitary workers and sanitary supervisors recording their findings in the card. The evaluation process will be held every day and by the end of the month the green report card carrying the signatures and findings of parents, sanitary workers and sanitary supervisors will be handed over to the school management. 
 
 “Among the top performers a computerised lot system will select a student from every 205 schools to award the prize,” the commissioner added. The civic body opined that such contests exclusive for school students to promote SWM would compel entire households to comply with the solid waste management practices. 
 
 Corporation sources said that donors and corporate social responsibility ( ) funding from private firms are being identified to support the initiative.
 
 
