Nagpur: The maiden Ranji trophy title for Vidarbha is being savoured by previous generation of VCA cricketers.

 Watching with interest the way the team played this season,  , who captained Vidarbha in 28 of the 64 matches he played, says, “It has taken over two decades for Vidarbha to reach this level. This is a momentous occasion.” Incidentally, Phadkar made his Ranji debut at Indore in 1975.
 
 Taking a stroll down memory lane, Phadkar says when he started playing cricket in 1968, the big league matches were between schools schools and various zones. Remembering the unexciting times at the VCA ground, the former cricketer says, “MB Wagh was our coach. There was no board of selectors and Wagh sir would select the team for the under-22 tournaments. Those who excelled in Guzder League would get selected for Godbole Trophy. The ones who performed well would get a berth in the Ranji team. That was the selection process.”
 
 The other prominent players of those times were Anil Deshpande, Ashok Bhagwat and Vijay Telang. “There were no facilities for cricketers as VCA had no money to spend. We would travel in sleeper class, sometimes standing near the train doors,” he says and adds, “That just as cricketers today carry smart kits provided by the association, players would essentially carry a bedding in those days.”
 
 “At times, we had to sleep on stations. There were very few sports goods shops in the city which offered no choices for bats. We used to dip the bat in linseed oil to get the strokes from it. Nobody wore helmets and we would carry our own bottle of Iodex for injuries,” he says while appreciating the manner in which VCA is grooming players.
 
 “Today, these players are travelling by flight, staying in three-star hotels, and given smart kits and uniforms. The only thing that we ever got from VCA were caps. No money was given to us. We played for passion,” Phadkar says.
 
 Nagpur would get very few matches as international cricketing events were held in bigger centres. “In 1968, New Zealand played in Nagpur. But the people here enjoyed cricket and the stadium used to be packed even for Duleep Trophy matched played here,” he says. In 1971, Phadkar captained a Maharashtra school team which had Sandip Patil and Dilip Vengsarkar. “We won the championship which was played in Patna and this brought Maharashtra in focus,” he says.
 
 Terming the morale of Vidarbha cricketers low during that era, Phadkar says, “Though all the players were good individually, they lacked positivity and that competitive urge to win. We were totally in awe of Mumbai and Maharashtra and actually suffered from an inferiority complex.” The only exposure was through Ramnath Keni and Col Hemu Adhikarim, who coached players for school cricket. “Cricketers did not enjoy the celebrity status then,” he says.
 
 VCA did not give any push to its players and had no influence with the Board, while the Mumbai team comprised test cricketers. “People would tell us to go to Mumbai if we wanted to make a career,” Phadkar says. Even the umpires gave decisions against Vidarbha. “A lot of sub-standard umpiring happened. Umpires would get influenced by people like Hanumant Singh and Kishen Rungta of Rajasthan and a few others in UP,” says Phadkar who umpired many international matches later.
 
 “We used to protest with VCA but there was no positive outcome which made the players pessimistic,” he says while praising the current coach Chandrakant Pandit who has taught the players to be positive. “We used to get overwhelmed by Mumbai players and would think that we can never beat them. This win will change all that,” he says.
 
 But there were still some moments of glory for the Vidarbha team then. “In 1981, we played against Madhya Pradesh who were all out for 373 and we for 91 in the first innings. We were asked to follow-on and I and Sunil Hedaoo drew the match with our 232-run partnership. For the first time, Raju Dhanwatey, secretary of VCA, threw a party in our honour at Navaidhyam,” he remembers.
 
 Anticipating a frenzy in the city when the team returns from Indore, Phadkar recalls the time they won a match against Rajasthan in 1996 under his captaincy. “There were no reactions from the city and we too didn’t expect any response. Today, media plays up these events and cricketers from Vidarbha are sure to reap the benefits,” he adds.
 
 
