Ludhiana: After the proposal to construct new   was dumped by the Union government under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut) scheme, civic officials are going to test the structural safety of existing water tanks in the city. The department has requested the Guru Nanak Engineering College (GNEC) for conducting this test for MC, so that they can bring the existing overhead tanks in use. The idea to construct the overhead reservoirs was to increase water pressure to an extent that even tanks on the terraces of buildings get filled up without using any motor.

 The government has advised MC to first utilize the existing structure of water tanks before preparing any new proposal. Moreover, in smart cities, underground water tanks are advised to urban local bodies. MC had constructed 61 water tanks in various locations of the city, but of these, only eight are functional, and the rest have not been in use for the past several years. Officials claimed they had requested GNEC authorities to test the structural safety of 53 water tanks, and if they found them safe, they would bring them in use.
 
 The superintending engineer of MC’s Operation and Maintenance cell, Ravinder Garg — while confirming the move — said that under the first phase of the Amrut scheme, there was a proposal to construct 22 new overhead water reservoirs, but the Union government has been asked to utilize the existing tanks, instead of constructing new ones. He said the reservoirs can help increase the water pressure, especially in summer, but residents will have to stop using electric motors or other pumps for suction of water from pipelines.
 
 Notably, water tanks are constructed with a capacity of 1 lakh to 2 lakh gallons, but in Focal Point, one tank has the capacity of 3 lakh gallons. Earlier, when these tanks were in use, MC staff used to fill them at nights from tubewells, and in the morning at the time of water supply, the valve of water tank was kept open for improving water pressure. Officials claimed that during that time, there was no need for electric motors to fill tanks on the first or even second floors of houses. 
 
 
