PATNA: Parents in the state capital can heave a sigh of relief about the safety of their wards while going to and coming back from their institutions as the state transport department has installed   in 300 school buses in the last one month.

 Speed governor is a device used to limit the top speed of a vehicle. The speed limit for school buses is 40km/hour.
 
 “The sped limiting device will be installed in 500 more school buses before the start of the next session from April first week. There is provision to install speed governor in all the commercial vehicles. New commercial vehicles will not be given permit and licence without speed governor,” transport department secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal told this newspaper on Wednesday.
 
 He said steps have been taken under a road safety campaign following three major accidents over the last 20 days. “The transport department has also cancelled the driving licences of 650 people in the state in the last 15 days for either rash driving or causing road accidents. Out of them, 132 were from Patna alone. Action under criminal procedures has also been taken against the offenders. In the next few days, notification regarding the cancellation of driving licences will be sent to around 1,000 more people,” Agarwal said and added all district transport officers (DTOs) have been asked to go through accident reports filed at the police stations under their respective jurisdictions in the last two years. 
 
 According to state police headquarters data, 35,579 persons died and 48,543 were injured in around 70,000 road accidents across Bihar between 2010 and 2016. 
 
 Portable machines to check emissions: 
 
 The state’s transport department has brought in 30 portable machines to check vehicular emissions in the state. “Ten of the 30 machines will be set up in Patna and the other 20 in other major towns of Bihar. Traffic police are undergoing training to operate these machines. They would start checking vehicles for emission levels from the second week of April. These machines would be kept in busy areas of the city,” transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said.
 
 
