PUDUCHERRY: The lieutenant governor's office came to the rescue of a   of  , Pradap de Condappa, in recovering his property worth 30 crore apparently usurped by French nationals in the Union territory of Puducherry. 

 Pradap said lieutenant governor   on Wednesday directed the municipal officials to evict the illegal occupants from the property and seal the building to enable him to take custody of it through legal means.
 
 The direction came after Pradap's mother and sister submitted a memorandum to Bedi on Wednesday seeking her help in recovering their property that houses a French restaurant 'Le Club' and a guest house 'Hotel de Pondicherry' on Rue Dumas next to the Beach Road. All workers, barring the manager and security guard of the restaurant and hotel, left as soon as they learnt about the development on Wednesday. The guests staying at the hotel managed to shift to nearby hotels on Thursday.
 
 Pradap said his father had leased a major portion of the property (10,000sqft) to a French national   in 1999 for a period of three years. Ravi, who established the restaurant and hotel, subleased the restaurant and hotel to another French national  , violating the lease agreement that categorically declared that he must not sublease the property.
 
 Pradap approached a Puducherry court after Ravi failed to honour the agreement and failed to pay rent for several years. The court passed an order in Pradap's favour, permitting him to take custody of his property.
 
 Meanwhile, Pradap managed to recover a portion (6,000sqft) of the property from another French national Pierre Elouard, who took it on a lease but vacated only after overstaying for several years.
 
 Pradap, who occupied the vacated portion, was brutally assaulted by a gang of 13 armed men in November last year. He sustained severe injuries to the head and shoulder in the attack. Odiansalai police had registered a case against Ravi, Rajendran and hotel manager Anand on charges of house-trespassing, voluntarily hurting using dangerous weapons and criminal intimidation.
 
 Pradap's efforts led the Puducherry municipality and excise department to cancel the trade and liquor licences given to Ravi to run the restaurant and hotel in March last year. However, Ravi approached the Madras high court and got an interim stay on the cancellation of licences in July last year. Later Ravi decided to settle the issue amicably and sent letters, dated December 13 last year, to the Puducherry municipality and excise department requesting them to cancel the licences given in his name as he no longer ran the restaurant and hotel and had surrendered the property back to the lawful landlord.
 
 
