Madurai: A precautionary measure of rubbing the keypad of a POS terminal or ATM keypad after a transaction will prevent people from falling prey to fraudsters who plan to steal money from banks. According to HDFC Bank, fraudsters had evolved a new method of capturing impressions of the PIN (personal identification number) of a card using ultra violet guns. 

 HDFC Madurai cluster head Lionel Fernandez said that the UV guns acted as heat sensors picking up the impressions on the keys on the pad after the pin number was punched. “It is advisable to rub the keypad after use so that UV guns don’t pick the impressions. Even otherwise, the keypad has to be covered with hand while punching PIN as standard safety procedure during card transaction,” they said. Other methods that the fraudsters used included phishing where emails promising several crores were sent to gullible victims seeking bank details. ‘Smishing’ was another way of conning unsuspecting customers through short messages redirecting them to unprotected websites containing viruses. Phishing and sim swapping were not popular anymore but fraudsters kept devising new methods to cheat the public, Fernandez said. 
 
 Simple methods like changing pin numbers frequently, covering POS or ATM keypads while transacting, not revealing bank details to others and using OTP for every banking transactions would go a long way in protecting our money in banks, he added. Fernandez was speaking after inaugurating Secure Banking Week for the bank’s branches in Madurai. HDFC would organize workshops across its 10 branches in Madurai for a week to educate customers and create awareness among general public about safe banking practices. It includes using netbanking, mobile apps, transacting at ATMs and use of credit/debit cards at POS terminals, merchant outlets and online banking. Fernandez was accompanied by South Zonal Head of Risk Intelligence & Control Debraj Das Gupta and his team, said phishing – the method of posing as bank officials to collect bank details from customers – and skimming where pin-cameras and skimming machines fixed at ATMs to extract card information, are the two methods through which customers are cheated in Tamil Nadu.
 
 
