After he returned from his solo circumnavigation (around the world) in 2013, Commander   had just one thought on his mind — ‘I want to sail around the world again’. 

 But he silenced it as it was no easy task to get permission for yet another one. As cliched as it might sound, the universe conspired and the words of the alchemist came true. 
 
 By the end of 2015, the 39-year-old got a special invitation from the organisers of the   2018, which will take off from France in July. An interesting aspect of the race is that it aims to recreate the 1968 circumnavigation of the first solo English sailor Robin Knox Johnston. Thus the only technology they can use would be that from 1968!
 
 Ever since, Abhilash has been busy doing the on-the-shore running around, submitting documents, procuring certificates and clearances from various authorities. Till the end of March this year, he was busy getting the boat ready, which has been dispatched to the Netherlands, in preparation for the race. On July 1, Abhilash will set off on yet another 30,000 mile non-stop solo sail, along with 18 other sailors from 13 countries. 
 
 
 
 How has he been training for the race? “For each sport, the training is different. For a 100 m runner, the diet aims at maximum explosive strength and to build muscles for those few seconds. You need to have as little fat on your body as possible. Similarly, for long distance runs, you need to have the right weight, build and endurance, and ensure that your kidneys and other internal organs are able to take it all. However, a 10-month race at sea is a different ball game altogether.”
 
 You are not looking for explosive strength here, he explains. “It’s all about planning and doing the right thing at the right time. The heavier you are, the better, in a way, because you will be easily losing about 20 kilos during the voyage. You don’t have to work out and lose weight right now. The energy requirement at sea is about 4000 calories a day. That is twice of what you need 
 on shore.”
 
 While in the boat, Abhilash will be eating a lot of snacks, rice, canned fish and meat. And that will be the menu every single day, for nine months, regardless of his health or the sea state. “Whether there is a storm, or even if I am throwing up, I have to get up and cook my food as planned and eat it. Or else I might get weak. It’s all about the endurance of the mind at the end of the day,” he says.
 
 
 
 The new generation might get baffled at the prospect of sailing using celestial navigation and by calculating using logarithm tables, but Abhilash says it’s no big deal. “We are taught all about navigating with traditional methods in the Navy, without the GPS. It is the standard navigation technique of the Navy and we are taught about the GPS only later. Also if anyone just shuts it down one day, we shouldn’t get lost. I just need to brush up my knowledge.” 
 
 
 
 While it was the boat named Mhadei that gave him company in the 2013 voyage, it's Thuriya this time. What does the name mean? “It’s a Sanskrit word derived from Chaturiya, or the fourth state of consciousness, or the underlying state of consciousness — the hypo metabolic state of restful alertness. A close friend of mine suggested the name and I felt it suits my boat to a T.” Compared to Mhadei, Thuriya is quite different. “Mhadei was bigger, twice the length and thrice the volume of Thuriya. Its design and technology were the latest, and it was about 30 per cent faster. It could carry more weight and it was more comfortable inside.” Abhilash, however, says that the construction technology of both are the same. Although he is sailing solo, his team consists of two other people as well — Captain Dilip Donde, the project's manager, and Ratnakar Danekar, who built the boat. “Adm Manohar Awati, whose brainchild my voyage on Mhadei was, continues to provide moral support like he always has,” he adds. 
 
 
 
 We don’t want to think about it, but what if? Abhilash is hardly rattled, and says sailors are well-equipped with the latest safety gear for the race. “The location can be activated in the event of danger, and they will provide your location and send emergency messages. The organizers will also be giving us a sealed GPS. Using it would assure your safety but disqualify you from the race.” The sailors will be given satellite phones, but only to communicate with the race organizers. 
 
 The race allows a maximum of 30 sailors, but many dropped out due to various reasons. Only 19 are left now, including Abhilash. Will he win the race? “Well, completing a voyage sans technology would in itself be a big achievement. We have the option of abandoning the race. If the race was of shorter duration, you could push the boat for better performance but you can’t do that for a 10 month race. It will be tired and can sink.” So, the sailor is going to be conservative and drive the boat intelligently. “If I manage to complete the race, there are chances of a good finish!“ he signs off.
 
 
 
