CHENNAI: Visitors to the Anna Nagar   Park may soon enjoy a panoramic view of the neighbourhood, with the corporation set to reopen the 135-foot tower after a gap of almost seven years. 

 The civic body is exploring the prospect of restoring public access to the city’s tallest park tower after adding safety features in a project funded by the state tourism department. 
 
 “A proposal to improve safety features in the tower, including fitting grills, at a cost of Rs 30 lakh has been forwarded to the tourism department,” said a corporation official. The proposal is expected to be ratified without much delay.
 
 The project received a push after a recent visit to the park by a senior administrator at  . “It is a magnificent piece of architecture and offers a great view of   from the top,” the official told TOI after his visit.
 
 D Antony, of the tower park user’s association, welcomed the idea, adding that the park’s patrons had earlier unsuccessfully attempted to convince the corporation to open the tower. "We wrote numerous letters and even petitioned former mayor Saidai Duraisamy in person to consider opening the tower. But the corporation kept denying our requests,” said Antony.
 
 Some users, however, disagreed with the corporation's move. “It was closed for a reason. The security inside the park is too minimal to monitor the activities of all people using the park. It was distressing to watch people jump off the tower,” said S Baskar, a resident of Anna Nagar and a regular visitor to the park.
 
 The tower was closed to the public in 2011 following a string of suicides. But the corporation continued to allow limited access to film and television shooting crew in the time since. Built by architect B S Abdur Rahman in 1968 to commemorate the hosting of the World Trade Fair by the Tamil Nadu government, the park was a major attraction and continues to be a landmark in the Anna Nagar neighbourhood.
 
 The park was in the news recently when a man stabbed a young woman for allegedly rebuffing his advances. Subsequently, the corporation is discussing the prospect of installing CCTV cameras at the park. 
 
 “We are also considering partitioning the lawn area from the concretised portions. Gates could restrict access to the lawn area. In the afternoon and late evening, these areas could be cordoned off to prevent untoward incidents,” a corporation official said.
 
 
