CHENNAI: In a bid to curb building violations, the state government has made   mandatory for buildings in areas under the directorate of town and country planning ( ) across the state. 

 The provision mandates site inspection by planning authorities at two crucial stages of construction to ensure that the building adheres to the approved plan. A new building constructed after getting planning permission from the DTCP cannot be occupied if there is no completion certificate. Utility services like water and power supply will be disconnected until completion certificate is received. 
 
 A government order of the housing and urban development department said the government has decided to accept the proposal of commissioner of town and country planning to introduce the provision for issuing completion certificate to all categories of buildings except for industrial buildings and residential buildings up to three dwelling units in the areas covered under the jurisdiction of DTCP. The planning permission for residential constructions beyond 4,000sq feet in the DTCP areas comprising the entire state except for Chennai Metropolitan Area (CMA) are provided by the respective local planning authorities or regional deputy directors. Completion certificate is already existing in the CMA covering Chennai and parts of   and Tiruvallur under the jurisdiction of the   (CMDA). 
 
 Those involved in constructions with planning permission from DTCP must get two certificates. According to the government order, the authority on its own or through professionals will conduct a site inspection to verify whether the applicant has conformed to the approved plan including the setback area at the time of construction made up to the plinth level. 
 
 Similar procedure would be followed for issuing completion certificate, after the construction works for the entire building is completed. “The applicant, a buyer, worker or any other person shall not occupy the building without a valid completion certificate obtained from the concerned authority,” the government order said. 
 
 “The aim of the completion certificate is to ensure there are no violations during constructions,” the official said. Developers have welcomed this move . Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) Chennai vice-president, S   said the move will eliminate unauthorised constructions. Sridharan also requested the government to reduce the scrutiny fee fixed as Rs 3 per square feet. 
 
 S Kanagasundaram, former president of the Association of Licensed Building Surveyors, Coimbatore said the implementation can be a challenge during the initial stage. “Adequate rules are already available for eradicating building violations,” he said. 
 
 
