CHANDIGARH: After several emails from parents,   ( ) has finally revised Class XII date sheet. It has changed the date of physical education exam from April 9 to April 13

 The move, however, has failed to bring a much-awaited respite to humanities students. No changes in the dates of exams of other subjects have been made. While the change in the date has brought relief to non-medical students, who had a paper a day before the physical education exam, it has reduced preparation days of medical students, who otherwise would have been free by April 9.
 
 “The students were expecting the revised   to give more preparatory days before the physics exam and to advance the physical education exam further so that they could be mentally free from the exams and then, focus on the revision for the upcoming NEET. On the contrary, the CBSE has postponed the physical education exam by another four days, thus further disappointing the medical aspirants. As most of the medical aspirants take up physical education as their additional subject, this has reduced their time for revision for NEET by another four days,” city based medical trainer Dr   said.
 
 However, main sufferers continue to be the humanities students. Parents and students termed it discouraging for not just them but also those are aspiring to take humanities in the coming years.
 
 Humanities students have no gap before two major papers on April 5 and 6. However, earlier, they did not have any break after physical education paper for sociology but with the change in datesheet, they will enough time to prepare.
 
 Neetu Sharma, a parent, said, “It is really sad that CBSE always treats humanities students as its step child. Thankfully, students got relief in one paper. But CBSE needs to be more considerate.”
 
 “I am very happy that CBSE revised the datesheet and changed the date of physical education paper. But, there should be some break between political science and psychology exams too. There is not even one day in between at present. Hope CBSE looks into it too,” said Gurminder, another parent.
 
 Sakshi, a Class XII humanities student studying in the   in Sector 44 said, “I am happy about the change in date of physical education paper but my main subjects are psychology and political science and so, I am feeling stressed. CBSE should give break between these papers.”
 
 TOI had, on January 12, reported that no considerable gap between the exams of some of the major papers in all the streams has raised the anxiety levels of Class XII CBSE board students and their parents. It was shared that the date of the physical education paper was a problem for non-medical student as they had Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) (mains) scheduled a day before, that is, on April 8.
 
 
 
