BENGALURU: Riders and drivers plying in the opposite direction on one-ways and on the wrong side on dual carriageways could lose their driving licences. Taking a serious view of the burgeoning issue, city traffic police have begun a special drive against such offenders.

 The drive, currently under way on Old Airport Road below the Domlur flyover, saw about 130 motorists, mostly two-wheeler riders, being booked. The special drive is, for now confined to the area under the Domlur flyover, but will be extended to other parts of the city, police said.
 
 “There are very few   cameras installed at the junction (under the Domlur flyover),” police said. “We will install more and this will help regularly identify one-way violators.”
 
 Police have sent at least 20 licences of the motorists who were booked to regional transport offices (RTO) for suspension. Ulsoor traffic police claim they were involved in more than five different cases.
 
 “Many officegoers and others travelling towards   regularly flout the one-way rule, causing massive traffic jams, especially during peak hours,” police said. “While booking them, we discovered that around 20 of them had multiple cases pending against them. We have requested the RTO to cancel their licences.”
 
 Abhishek Goyal, DCP, traffic (east), told TOI many vehicles were flouting the one-way rule below Domlur flyover. “Not only two-wheelers, even four-wheelers and autos ply in the wrong direction,” he said. “This results in bumper-to-bumper traffic below the flyover.”
 
 
 
 
 Traffic offenders will soon receive digital receipts — mostly on mobile phones — for the fines they pay. R Hitendra, additional commissioner of police (traffic), told TOI work has already begun on the project.
 
 “We are living in a technology era,” he said. “ATM users who used to get paper receipts are now receiving SMS messages for their transactions. Why shouldn’t traffic police send details of fines on mobile phones? We will implement this at the earliest.”
 
 Asked what police would do if a vehicle user says she has does not have a mobile, Hitendra said in such cases police will issue paper challans.
 
 
