MUMBAI: Private equity firm   and its global sponsors have made a strong bid to buy a 40% stake in  , valuing it at closer to $1 billion, people directly aware of the matter said.

 
 True North is vying with Multiples Asset Management and an investment arm of Goldman Sachs, but is seen as a front-runner for the deal. If selected, True North’s up to $400-million bid could be one of the largest private equity investments in the domestic general insurance space till date. Deal making with any of the private equity firms is not a certainty and Sundaram could explore an initial public offer if the ongoing talks fall apart, sources said.
 
 Royal Sundaram is the first private general insurance company approved by IRDAI 18 years ago. It was originally run as a joint venture between Sundaram   and Royal & SunAlliance Insurance of UK. Sundaram acquired the 26% shareholding of the foreign partner three years ago.
 
 Sundaram Finance and other Indian shareholders now own 100% of the company, which commands around 1.8% share of the general insurance market in the country. An emailed query to Royal Sundaram remained unanswered. When contacted, True North declined to comment.
 
 One of the largest India-focused private equity asset managers, True North has stepped up large deal making and invested more than $600 million — the size of its last fund — in three mid-market acquisitions last year alone. Several India-bred private equity managers are co-investing with their global sponsors to write bigger deal cheques.
 
 Still, True North’s bid is interesting since it closely tracks an agreement to acquire   for $200 million. Sundaram is a general insurance entity with motor vehicle coverage accounting for more than 80% of the assets. Sundaram lists car, two-wheeler, home, travel and health insurances among its products. The company’s premium earned grew 7.8% year-on-year to Rs 490 crore on a net basis during the third quarter of the previous fiscal. Royal Sundaram had reported about Rs 2,200 crore in premium receipts during FY17, which was nearly 30% up from the preceding year.
 
 Last year, Warburg Pincus and others, as part of a pre-IPO deal, picked up a 12% stake in ICICI Lombard for $380 million. 
 
