MUMBAI: The Shiv Sena scaled up its offensive against the   on the proposed Rs 3-trillion   refinery in Konkan’s Ratnagiri district.

 Industries minister Subhash Desai from the Shiv Sena on Tuesday gave chief minister Devendra   a letter asking him to denotify the land earmarked for it and without waiting for a decision, directed the state industries secretary to begin the process of denotification. “I have asked the industries secretary to begin the process of denotification under the Maharashtra Industrial Development (MID) Act, 1961,” said Desai. Shiv Sena ministers held a separate meeting on the Nanar issue before the cabinet meeting and went to meet Fadnavis together. Desai then gave him the letter. Fadnavis confirmed receiving the letter from Desai but reiterated that a decision on the proposal had yet to be taken. “We will make a decision based on the interest of the state after consultations with locals,” Fadnavis told the media.
 
 This comes a day after the allies clashed over the refinery, with Desai unilaterally announcing that the notification for the refinery had been cancelled and Fadnavis hitting back by saying only a high-powered committee could cancel it. When asked about Fadnavis’s statement that only the high-powered committee could scrap the notification, Desai said, “Since the notification originated from the industries department, this department has to move the proposal to denotify.”
 
 The industries department had issued a notification for the project on May 18, 2017. Officials said that while Desai could direct that the land be denotified, this would still need to follow “due process”. This means that in central government projects like the Nanar refinery, the high-powered committee would have to be consulted.
 
 In his letter to Fadnavis, Desai said that ten gram panchayats in the area had opposed the Nanar project and the joint measurement of land had been stopped. A BJP minister said that Sena ministers were absent when the weekly cabinet meeting began. The Sena ministers later came and asked Fadnavis to step outside. Desai gave him the proposal to scrap the Nanar notification, after which Sena leaders joined the cabinet meeting.
 
 Rebel BJP MLA   has written to Fadnavis asking for the Nanar project to be shifted to Vidarbha, since it would beneficial for the region.   chief   on Tuesday said the ruling parties were trying to “fool” people by speaking in divergent voices. He termed the spat as a “grand tamasha”.
 
