PUNE: The spurt in cases of children falling off designer balconies with glass railings in aesthetically appealing buildings has triggered posers on the safety aspects of galleries and the attention of guardians towards kids at home. 
 
  
 A two-year-old child fell off the   of a ninth floor flat in Chinchwad on Tuesday. The girl, Ankita Tomar, was alone in the balcony when she fell around 4pm, while her mother and grandparents were at home. 
  
 Experts stressed parents need to be vigilant and not leave a child alone in the balcony or home. If a child has to be left alone for a while, the door leading to the balcony must be locked, one of them said. 
  
 The builders feel equal emphasis must be laid on the aesthetic and the safety aspects of the construction to minimize  . The National Building Code states, “Every slab or balcony overlooking any exterior or interior open space which are 2 metres or more below shall be provided with parapet walls or guard rails of height not less than 1.2 metres and such guard rails should be firmly fixed to the walls.” 
  
 President of Credai Pune Metro, Shrikant Paranjape, said while there are no specific rules pertaining to the   of a balcony, the height of a parapet or the gap to be maintained between two members (structures) of a railing are among obvious and primary aspects of design. “While there is no specific rule of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), this is a function of design. We generally have vertical members in railings with a narrow gap between two so that no one slips through,” he said. 
  
 Secretary of Credai Pune Metro, Ranjit Naiknavare said, “While the PMC has maintained that the parapet must be a minimum of 1.05 metres to 1.2 metres in height, the corporation does not restrict builders in terms of design. We have advised our members to preferably use vertical members for balcony railings. Horizontal members can be used as steps and children may climb up using them. Architects, Engineers and Surveyors Association must send out an advisory to use vertical members,” he said. 
  
 Rohit Gera, a   who focuses on child-friendly homes, said a three-tier structure can avoid accidents. “First, there is a prescribed code in the National Building Code. It maintains a minimum and maximum height for parapet walls or hand railings. Second is the common sense to maintain minimum gap in the parapet wall or between the members of the railing and the use of vertical members. Finally, parents must be cognisant of what poses a risk to their children and install something like an acrylic sheet before the parapet wall,” he said. 
  
 Paranjape said Credai Pune Metro had not issued any advisory in this regard yet. “We may issue some basic guidelines to   any accidents,” he added. 
  
  
