CHANDIGARH: Finally, after a gap of three years   will be able to fill up the vacant teaching and administrative posts since the ministry of human resource and development (MHRD) has permitted the university to fill up 27  . The   communicated this to the university a few days ago, said PU vice-chancellor Prof   at the senate meeting on Sunday. 

 “We received a communication from the MHRD/UFGC two days ago permitting us to fill up 27 vacant posts. We will have to fill these posts gradually,” said PU VC Grover. 
 
 The Centre had frozen the recruitments at the university following the financial crisis of the university which had escalated. Around 50 teaching posts had been lying vacant and the university had put forward the same before the MHRD and UGC. Of these 50 posts, two posts were available for professors, 13 for associate professors and 35 for assistant professors. The 50 posts are not inclusive of the administrative posts of dean college development council (DCDC) and chief of university security of the Panjab University. 
 
 While Grover informed the House about the granted permission, suggestions started pouring in that administrative posts of DCDC and three deputy registrars should be set up. During the deliberations on the problems concerning colleges in the senate meeting on Sunday senate member DP S Randhawa said first the university should fill up the post of DCDC. “It is an important post and since the controller has been given such an important post, he is not been able to focus on it since he already holds a significant post,” added Randhawa. Grover suggested that a committee under the chairmanship of the dean university instructions (DUI) Prof   should be formed to fill these posts gradually. 
 
 The senate members in the past had raised the issue that the matter needs to be taken up with the UGC since there are departments in the university where there is only one teacher and when he/she attains the retirement age, the department will have no teachers. The university had written to the MHRD and UGC submitting the same. 
 
 
