A board erected by the   (HRCE) department outside the   near Marthandam in   declares in Tamil an allotment of Rs3.85 crore sanctioned towards its restoration by former chief minister J Jayalalithaa in 2014. It warns people against trespassing into the palace — a witness to important events in the history of Travancore kingdom.

 The scene beyond the board is disturbing. The roof has caved in, and the boundary walls appear set to collapse any time. Even though a decision was taken to renovate the palace in 2016, nothing has been done so far by the Tamil Nadu government to protect the collapsing structure. 
 
 "We have been campaigning for the restoration of the palace for long, but to no avail. Even after sanctioning money for its protection, no action has been taken so far. This shows the government’s lack of interest in protecting monuments," said Binumol Tom, a heritage activist, who has been campaigning for restoration of the palace for more than a decade. "Since the state government has failed in protecting the palace, it’s high time the Union government included it in its ‘adopt a heritage’ project," she added.
 
 There is no proper record or inscription to establish the year the palace was constructed in. It is believed that it was built during the reign of Vanchi Marthanda Varma of the Venad dynasty 500 years ago. It functioned as an administrative hub of the Venad kings. It is said that in 1601, king Ravi Varma Kulashekhara shifted the seat of power to the adjacent Padmanabhapuram palace and Eraniel was maintained as the second capital. It was from here that Veluthampi Dalawa, chieftain of the Travancore kingdom (1802-1809), started a people’s agitation against the misdeeds of then king Balarama Varma.
 
 Built in a traditional style, the palace has a ‘padipura’ (entrance), ‘kuthiramalika’ (the main palace) and ‘vasanthamandapam’ (spring pavilion). There is a small tank in the northeastern quadrant of the palace which served as the royal bath and a secret tunnel for emergency escape. Activists say many sculptures that adorned the walls of the palace were stolen a decade ago.
 
 Six months ago, authorities closed the entrance to the palace which they say was to stop miscreants and anti-social elements from entering the premises. But locals don’t support this. "They don’t want people to see the pathetic state of the palace," said A Venateswaran, a teacher in Marthandam. "The chief minister of Tamil Nadu should take immediate action to restore the structure. Otherwise, the palace will disappear soon," he added.
 
 
