THANE: Trustee of a Thane school, Shilpa Gautam (45), who has been accused of brutally thrashing 50 students for creating a din and disturbing her sleep, was arrested on Friday. However, she got out on   a few hours later.

 Even as   wrote to the state   seeking justice for the students, the Maharashtra State Commission for Protection of Child Rights said it will take up the case suo motu. “We will reach out to the parties involved, send out notices and schedule the case for hearing,” said an official fromthe commission.
 
  
 Police said on Wednesday, Gautam, a trustee of Gautam English High School, locked up 50 students in a room and thrashed them with a   for disturbing her sleep, even as 13 teachers watched. While three of the students were hospitalized with wrist fractures, 15 required treatment. The incident came to light the next day, when 13 girls and five boys, along with their parents, lodged a complaint under IPC Section 324 at Thane Nagar police. She was arrested on Friday and produced before the local magistrate’s court, which sent her to magisterial custody. She later applied for bail, which was granted. 
 
 Claiming that Gautam has violated several child safety and RTE laws, activists wrote to the education department demanding strict action against her. “If teachers and trustees assault students, they will dread going to school, and rightly so,” said Ghanshyam Sonar of Thane Matdata Jagran Abhiyaan, which wrote to the education department on Friday. “In this case, the trustee violated the Juvenile Justice Act and the RTE Act and can even be booked under IPC Section 326 for causing grievous injuries to children using a weapon.” 
 
 After receiving the letter, the education department sent a notice to Thane zilla parishad education officer to investigate the matter and submit a detailed report at the earliest. “We got to know about this incident through the NGO; the allegations are shocking,” said Rajendra Ahire, assistant deputy director of education. “We will be able to take action after receiving the inquiry report from the education officer.” Meanwhile, three of the injured students admitted at Thane Civil Hospital were discharged on Friday.
 
 (Inputs by Vinamrata Borwankar)
 
 
