In the latest episode of  , Adi and Aliya are enjoying a stroll in the park but the former is lost in his thoughts. Aliya asks Adi about his worries and he tells her that he is thinking about Roshni and how he is impressed with her progress. 

 He keeps praising Roshni and how he was in touch with her earlier. He tells Aliya about how they are friends on social media. Aliya feels worried about Adi and Roshni's closeness but Adi tells her he is proud of Roshni and that every woman should be independent. 
 
 In the castle, Ishita is lying in her bed and suddenly wakes up. She shouts for Raman and then finds herself locked with a chain. She goes along with the chain and reaches the entry of the castle where the mystery woman (ghost) is also tied. 
 
 Ishita asks Sonakshi (ghost) to leave her alone but the latter again asks Ishita when she will return home. Ishita gets worried as she finds out that she is tied to the same chain as the ghost's. When the face of the ghost in unveiled, Ishita sees her own face in her. 
 
 Hearing Ishita scream, Shagun and Raman come running to her. She hugs Raman and tells him how she was tied to the chain with Sonakshi, the ghost. Raman consoles her. Shagun gets worried and promises to investigate more about the case. 
 
 Shagun gets a call from Mihika and she tells her about Bhawna, the clairvoyant, who had informed her about a ghost disturbing Ishita. Shagun tells Mihika what's happening with Ishita. Mihika also asks Shagun not to let Ishita eat anything from the hands of the ghost. Shagun decides to tell everything to Raman. 
 
 Adi goes looking for Romi in his room but he is unable to locate him. He then gets a call from the person with whom his bag had got exchanged. The man on the phone keeps asking for his diamonds and says he will release Romi after that. 
 
 Adi gets worried for Romi and asks Roshni for help. She asks him about the place where they had left their bags so that they can go looking for it. 
 
 Raman tries to cheer Ishita and the latter apologizes to him for ruining their holiday. He hugs her and asks her not to worry. 
 
