ULUBERIA (HOWRAH):  , a Class VII student from  , was in a hurry. He was getting ready for the schoolbus that picks him from the doorstep to the RSS-run school. Unlike other students, Gurupada learns the basics of   apart from subjects taught in schools affiliated to West Bengal Board of Secondary Education. His idol is Lord Ram and he dreams of a Hindu rashtra. 

 Local   leaders have reached out to his parents to tell them such schools can be set up elsewhere if the area gets a Hindu MP. At present, there are two such schools at Tantiberia and Bandar under Amta II block. They run in two shifts(7-10am and 11am-3pm) with funding, having a strength of 2,000 students. Around 50 are in the neighbourhood such as Debipur, but technically they don’t come under Uluberia Lok Sabha constituency.
 
 Catching parents through schoolboys is the emerging undertone in Uluberia. BJP leaders Kailash Vijayvargiya, Mukul Roy and candidate Anupam Mallik didn’t make a religious appeal during the 35km roadshow from Uluberia east to Bagnan via Uluberia north on Wednesday. But residents have received WhatsApp messages urging votes for a Hindu candidate. All other parties — Trinamool, CPM and Congress — have fielded Muslims in Uluberia LS bypolls.
 
 RSS (Uluberia rural) karyabahak Dipankar Naskar has nothing to hide. “We are telling people to vote for a Hindu candidate. It’s an appeal. We are not forcing anybody. We have been organising education camps in Uluberia villages for one and a half years, teaching people Mahabharata, Ramayana, the elements of the Vedas and Upanishads and Manu Samhita. What’s wrong in it?” Naskar said.
 
 Mallik was quick to offer his argument in a bid to sanitise RSS’ campaign. “Take a peek at the masjids in Sijberia. The ruling Trinamool has engaged the maulavis to sensitise Muslim voters,” he said. According to the district administration, there are 30 recognised madrassas in Uluberia and a host of unrecognised ones. Mallik said despite this, a section of Muslims has rallied with BJP.
 
 Trinamool Howrah president and minister Arup Roy denied the charge. “BJP is taking to such a malicious campaign to divide voters along religious lines. We are instead harping on the development work under the Mamata Banerjee government,” Roy said. 
 
 
