PUNE: The construction work of the four-laning of   stretch on National Highway 50 has been extended by yet another year, much to the chagrin of commuters who travel regularly on this route between Pune and  .

 The work on the 137.9-km road between Rajguru Nagar (Khed in Pune district) and Sinnar (in Nashik district) was flagged off on February 12, 2014. It was later taken over by   (KSEL). While work on nearly 109 km stretch has been completed between Nagar and Nashik, non-completion of work on the Pune stretch for over 57 km has delayed opening of the highway.
 
 
  
 Delayed compensation to farmers and unwillingness of villagers to hand over land for construction of bypasses are the reasons for the work being carried out at a snail's pace since 2014, stated officials. The project is likely to be completed only by 2019.
 
 With disbursement of funds delayed in Pune district, the work on 28.5 km stretch out of the 57.5 km is pending, according to   officials.
 
 The Pune-Nashik stretch consists of five bypasses -- Khed, Manchar, Kalamb, Narayangaon and Alephata -- and Khed ghat realignment, which is yet to be completed, the officials said.
 
 “The state government has disbursed compensation amount of Rs 721.56 crore to the land acquisition officer. However, only Rs 540.37 crore has been actually disbursed. Farmers are not allowing construction work due to non-disbursement of full compensation amount,’’ said   (NHAI) officials. The issue was discussed at a highway review meeting attended by Union Mminister for road transport Nitin Gadkari recently.
 
 Another amount of Rs 53 crore, disbursed by the government, was deposited by the land acquisition officer in court due to various litigations. Due to the delay in disbursement of the amount, villagers have opposed the acquisition.
 
 “It was decided that the amount will be disbursed within a month as directed by Pune guardian minister Girish Bapat,’’the official said.
 
 Another sore point has been the issue of transfer of land from Directorate of Onion And Garlic Research (DOGR), Rajgurunagar, to NHAI.
 
 The delay in transfer of land is hampering construction of grade separator at Khed. Recently, the institute had requested for shifting of the alignment of highway in front of ICAR institute but it was denied on grounds of safety. While DOGR has sought compensation for the said land, NHAI stated that if the land belongs to the Central government, no compensation will be paid.
 
 
