AHMEDABAD: The past two weeks have been a nightmare for several banks across Gujarat, who have been reeling under   due to low supply of currency from the Reserve   of India. 

 Cooperative banks are the worst affected, said bankers. Gujarat Urban Cooperative Banks’ Federation (GUCBF) – a body that represents cooperative banks across the state, also made a representation to the RBI, urging it to disburse adequate cash to banks.
 
 “Bank branches across the state usually get cash from their currency chest. However, even the currency chests are facing cash shortage, as adequate funds are not supplied from the RBI. In the forthcoming days, even ATMs may run short of money if the cash flow issue is not addressed,” said Jyotindra Mehta, chairman, GUCBF.
 
 A banker said on condition of anonymity, “Currently, over-the-counter availability of cash for big ticket withdrawals is a major issue for most banks.”
 
 While chief minister Vijay Rupani refrained from making any mention of the cash crunch in cooperative banking sector at the inauguration of a green bank in Surat, deputy CM Nitin Patel acknowledged the crisis and said the government is in touch with RBI and trying to hammer out a solution. 
 
 “We are in constant touch with the regional director of RBI to solve the problem. We hope to get some solution in the coming days,” said Patel.
 
 Rural areas of north Gujarat are worst affected by the cash crunch. Sources said that certain banks in north Gujarat districts of Aravalli, Sabarkantha, Mehsana and Unjha have put up notices indicating limited cash flow. “We are in talks with the RBI constantly, and will soon be working out a solution. Meanwhile, cash has been sent to banks in north Gujarat on Thursday and Friday to address shortage,” said state chief secretary, J N Singh.
 
 The issue has also impacted private and public sector banks across the state with people facing trouble. “This is harvest season for crops such as jeera, wheat and variyali, among others and traders and wholesalers tend to make cash payments to farmers. Under the current situation, banks are unable to disburse cash, as hardly 25% of the total cash requirement is being sent to currency chests of the banks by RBI,” said Janak Rawal, secretary, Maha Gujarat Bank Employees Association (MGBEA).
 
 
