MUMBAI: Less than a week after the aviation regulator grounded   and   over safety concerns, IndiGo on Sunday withdrew another   due to an engine problem. This grounding raises question over the reliability of 31 Pratt and Whitney (PW) engined A320neos currently operational in India. 

 The reason: These are among the aircraft not red-flagged by the European or Indian aviation regulator when they recently said A320neos with PW1100 engines (serial number 450 and above) "are more susceptible to inflight shut down". 
 
  
 IndiGo flight 6E 132 (A320 neo, registration number VT-ITX) from Bengaluru landed in Delhi at 8.45 am, after which the aircraft remained grounded. An IndiGo spokesperson said: "An A320 neo aircraft that operated Bangalore-Delhi on Sunday morning was proactively withdrawn in Delhi for a maintenance check to attend to a pilot reported defect.'' 
 
  In the past one week, this is the third technical problems involving a PW1100 engine powered IndiGo A320neo. The spokesperson did not comment on the other two incidents. 
 
  The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) was not available for comment. 
 
  Soon after IndiGo began inducting A320neos in 2016, engines suffered failures due to problems in combustion chamber, there were "oil chip warning due to wear of bearing 3'' etc. Referring to Sunday's grounding, IndiGo spokesperson said: "During the maintenance check, metal chips were observed on left engine, number 3 bearing chip detector which is a known concern on the Neo engine." 
 
 Sunday’s grounding had to do with an old problem faced by A320neos that have engines with serial numbers up to 449. However, in February, both the DGCA and PW had said that the old engine problems had been resolved.
 
 On Sunday, advocate Yeshwant Shenoy, who filed a petition last week in the Delhi high court seeking grounding of the entire PW1100 powered A320neo fleet, wrote to IndiGo and civil aviation ministry saying: “If the engines were as safe as the DGCA pointed out, then why did such an incident happen?... Pilots are scared and take minute inspections before taking off.’’
 
