RAJKOT: Treating a double murder as a ‘rarest of the rare case’, the   sessions court on Thursday handed down capital punishment to a 20-year-old woman who had slashed her mother and elder   to death with a sword last year.

 Additional sessions judge D R Bhatt sentenced   to death for killing her 60-year-old mother Rajiben and 27-year-old sister Aarti in their sleep on February 17 last year. She had also mounted a savage attack on her third sister Madhu who was critically wounded and is still bed-ridden. Manju was the youngest among the three sisters.
 
 The murder was a fallout of a bitter quarrel between Manju and her mother over domestic chores a day before the crime. She got violent and had even slapped her mother and sisters after hurling expletives at them when she was reprimanded for not doing household work.
 
 In the night, Madhu and Aarti were sleeping in one room while Manju and her mother were sleeping in another. Early morning on February 17, Vijay, her brother, who was sleeping outside the house, woke up hearing their mother’s screams. When he went inside, he saw her lying in a pool of blood. Unable to speak, his mother was pointing towards the adjoining room. When he went there, he saw Aarti and Madhu too badly injured and Manju standing there with a sword in her hand.
 
 All three were rushed to   where Raji and Aarti were declared dead on admission while Madhu was rushed to   in Bhuj in a critical condition. 
 
 Manju did not escape from there and instead stood with the sword in her hands before neighbours and other family members caught hold of her.
 
 Police collected blood samples, sword and her blood-stained clothes as circumstantial evidence.
 
 Talking to TOI, public prosecutor Hiteshi Gadhvi said, “This is a case of brutal murder of two persons and deadly attack on another. We found Manju’s fingerprints on the sword, victim’s blood stains on her clothes and all other evidence which proved her crime and it was also substantiated by the forensic report.”
 
 Investigating officer  , who is currently serving at Gandhidham crime branch, said, “Initially, we were told that Manju was a minor and her age was 17. As we did not have her birth records, we took the help of doctors who confirmed that she was 19 at the time of crime. We were also told that she was mentally unstable but this was also proved wrong. She was only taking medicine for headache while in judicial custody.”
 
 Manju was also convicted for attempt to murder and sentenced to five-year imprisonment.
 
 Her father and brother sell readymade garments on a handcart in Gandhidham town.
 
 
 
 Rajkot: During the trial, Manju’s brother Vijay, who was the complainant and prime witness, turned hostile. Not only Vijay but other family members who were taken as witnesses also did a U-turn saying that they did not remember what exactly had happened. However, scientific evidence and documentary evidence that were substantiated by the forensic science laboratory (FSL) report nailed Manju. Till last moment, Manju did not admit that she had killed her mother and sister. 
 
 The public prosecutor presented 42 documents as evidence and 22 government witnesses to prove that this was a heinous crime which should classify as rarest of the rare case.
 
 
