HYDERABAD: The interim insolvency resolution professional ( ), KK Rao, appointed as part of corporate insolvency resolution proceedings (CIRP) against debt-laden Hyderabad-based Deccan  , has issued a notification inviting Expression of Interest (EoI) from prospective investors/ consortium of investors to submit their resolution plans before February 15, 2018.

 After this, the committee of creditors will do a shortlisting of the resolution applicants that have evinced interest and in the second stage the request for resolution plan (RFRP) document will be provided to the shortlisted resolution applicants, who will also have to sign a confidentiality undertaking.
 
 The RAs will then be given access to the data room for limited due diligence, following which they will have to submit their resolution plan along with a bid bond of Rs 5 crore in the form of deposit/ bank guarantee/safety bond with a validity of three months.
 
 The issue of notification inviting EoI from investors is a crucial step in the resolution process. The EoI will be evaluated on various technical and financial parametres like consolidated group revenues, assets under management, consolidated group net worth, and funds available for deployment.
 
 
 
 
 According tothe notification issued by the interim IRP on February 7, only any private or public limited company,   or body corporate in India or abroad, having a minimum tangible net worth of Rs 100 crore in the preceding financial year would be eligible. The eligibility criteria also says that in case of financial institutions, funds, private equity investors and NBFCs, the minimum asset under management should be ₹500 crore or committed funds available for investment in Indian companies or Indian assets should be ₹250 crore or more in the preceding financial year.
 
 The financial mess at   came to light in 2012 with multiple lenders filing cases in various courts and erstwhile debt recovery tribunals across India. With the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code code coming into force,   initiatedcorporate insolvency resolution proceedings against DCHL in the National Company Law Tribunal at Hyderabad.
 
 It was only as recently as January 25that NCLT named Kolkata-based Mamta Binani as IRPfor DCHL and asked the interim IRP KK Rao to assisther. SREI, which was also one of the lenders to DCHL was earlier removedfrom the list of creditors on the ground that it had converted a part of itsloan tothebeleagueredcompany intoequity.
 
 
