LUCKNOW: Even as the state government is going into an overdrive to check the mass copying menace in the  , just seven districts have submitted the list of 'dubious' centres with the  , which has been roped in to crack down on the education mafia. 

 After stern instructions from deputy CM  , who is also the secondary education minister, the education department officials are working closely with police to chalk out strategy to pin down education mafia. The department ordered installation of CCTV cameras, made Aadhaar compulsory along with ID cards for invigilators and keeping a hawk eye on exam centres. 
 
 It also decided to rope in the STF, which had sent out letters to DMs and police chiefs of all districts and asked them to identify dubious examination centres and send a list by January 31. However, on February 5 evening, just a day before board exams begin, just seven districts had submitted the list.
 
 STF SSP Abhishek Singh said, "Information was sought from all the districts but less than 10 have responded. I cannot share names of districts which have responded or not responded as our operation can get jeopardised."
 
 The district inspector of schools ( ) posted in Lucknow and Mathura were extremely prompt and have sent lists and even classified centres as hypersensitive and sensitive, say sources. 
 
 Sources said that Lucknow administration has classified 17 out of total 137 centres as hypersensitive.
 
  "Etah has also responded and forwarded the details," said the source.
 
 But officials from several districts, which are known bastions of education mafia and are infamous for mass copying, have not responded. An SP posted in one such district in   police range said, "We forwarded the letter to DIOS since the education department maintains the list of blacklisted and dubious centres."
 
 Still not unnerved by the poor response to its missive, STF has constituted teams to keep a watchful eye nonetheless. 
 
 "Decoy teams would keep an eye on suspicious centres across UP. We have generated some inputs through our men and are coordinating with senior education department officials. Hopefully, some gangs can be netted in a few days," assured Singh.
 
 
