PUNE: The   audit report for   market in Camp, prepared after a joint inspection by the fire chiefs of   (PMC) and Pune Cantonment Board (PCB), have brought to fore the scant action taken over the years.

 The report— commissioned after the recent Kamala Mills tragedy in Mumbaiauthored by PMC’s chief fire officer  , and agreed upon by the fire brigade superintendent of the PCB, points to a litany of fire safety violations by the traders.
 
 
 The market complex, frequented by hundreds every day and where nearly 500 traders have set up shop, does not have passageways wide enough for evacuation in case of a fire-related emergency. The approaches to the market are also not wide enough to accommodate fire engines.
  
  
 
 The traders have extensively used flammable materials to construct their stalls, which also double up as residences. Few shops have in-house fire fighting measures, like extinguishers, the report noted.
 
 “There is absolutely no fire safety mechanism at the market complex itself, and the surrounding buildings also do not have extinguishers or fire hoses. So even they cannot help in case of a fire situation. I found that loose wiring has been used in the stalls, and many electricity connections may even be illegal. There have already been a few small fires at the spot over the years. A large scale fire may be disastrous. I have suggested a number of measures which starts with every shop having its own fire extinguishers,” Ranpise told TOI.
 
 At a meeting on Monday, PCB president Brigadier Rajiv Sethi, directed the board’s revenue department to carry out a special survey to identify illegal shops in the market and submit a report by November 10. He said he has taken up the issue with the   chief Lt Gen DR Soni as well.
 
 “The safety and security of the market is paramount as hundreds of people visit the facility daily. Therefore, we have asked all shop owners operating at the market to follow all security norms suggested by the Pune Fire Brigade recently,” Sethi told TOI.
 
 Some shop owners met Sethi last week, urging him to set a deadline fpr the stipulated security measures.
 
 “They have to complete all precautionary measures by November 8. A team from the board will inspect the market again and take stock of the situation. If we don’t find the facility safe, we may declare it illegal as we can’t afford to jeopardise safety and security of people,” Sethi added.
 
 In the past, PCB officials have torn down illegal stalls and pulled down construction made of flammable materials. But officials conceded that any action has been too little.
 
 “ At least 125 to 150 stalls at Fashion Street are illegal. Our fire brigade chief has visited the market on multiple occasions and pleaded with the shop owners to get their own extinguishers and hoses. The stall owners are uncooperative, and refuse to listen to us. We will issue a public notice to Fashion Street traders to abide by the audit report suggestions, including stall owners, and mandatory fire extinguishers ,” a top PCB official said.
 
