LUCKNOW : Despite the hype over the   under which   promised to   of up to Rs 1 lakh, the number of farmers getting the   has been just 11% of the total targeted beneficiaries.

 Records show that just 10 lakh of the total targeted 86 lakh debt-ridden farmers in the state could get the maximum benefit of Rs 1 lakh as envisaged under the scheme that was launched to fulfil BJP’s key poll promise.
 
 According to the data of state agriculture department, over 66 lakh farmers registered under the scheme till date and around 36 lakh farmers got loan waiver, out of which just one-fourth could get maximum loan waiver of Rs 1lakh.
 
 The data further reveals that the scheme benefited only 2.5 lakh farmers in the parched and economically backward Bundelkhand region, which has often been in news for suicides by  
 
 Officials in agriculture department said that priority was given to farmers whose loans had not been categorised as non-performing asset (NPA) by banks till March 31, 2016. “The scheme essentially aimed to cover only loans taken for cropping purpose like seeds, fertilizers and insecticides. One should not confuse them with loans for farm equipment and tractors,” said a senior official of agriculture department. “Moreover, the loans taken by farmers were put under severe scrutiny while making Aadhar card registration mandatory,” he said.
 
 The government had made a budgetary provision of Rs 36,000 crores for the scheme in its July 2017 budget but records show that less than Rs 21,000 crores have been disbursed till date even as government has set March 10 deadline for farmers to get themselves registered for loan waiver.
 
 The disclosure has given fresh ammunition to opposition to take on ruling BJP.
 
 SP MLC, Anand Bhadauria, who had recently raised the issue in legislative council, said that the government has only cheated poor and gullible farmers in the name of farm loan waiver. “A lot of genuine farmers are waiting to get benefit under the scheme. But the state government is ignoring them,” he said.
 
 
