CHANDIGARH: With emphasis on “Functional Materials: Energy and Biomedical Applications”, a three-day international symposium jointly organized by IIT Kanpur,   and University of Illinois, US, started here in Chandigarh.

 On the importance of the theme, Dr   from Panjab University said, “Advanced materials and functional materials continue to intrigue researchers and scientists providing a source of continuous discovery from basic to applied research. Functional materials are also important components of different biological and biomedical applications, including drug delivery, tissue engineering and medical imaging. Again, in the 21st century, where aggravating energy and environmental problems are ringing the alarm bell to the human society, the development of energy storage and conversion techniques strongly depends on the achievements of material science.”
 
 The valedictory day on Sunday will witness sessions on energy storage devices and biomaterials and sensor devices. A session on multifunctional materials and nanomaterials and nanotechnology will also be held. The collaborating partners from University of Illinois at Chicago, Panjab University and IIT Kanpur are Prof  , Dr Vishal Sharma and Dr Raju Gupta, respectively. The symposium is a platform to exchange views, ideas and information for advanced technologies to harness the earth.
 
 Dr  , secretary, SERB, DST India, was the chief guest and the programme was attended by PU vice-chancellor Prof Arun Kumar Grover. The first session of the symposium started off with the plenary lecture by Prof Jayakumar Rajadas from  , followed by keynote lecture by Prof Vikas Berry from University of Illinois at Chicago.
 
 The entire day had many invited lectures delivered by eminent scientists and professors throughout India and abroad. Some of them were Prof Vijay Thakur from Cranfield University, Prof Ajeet Kaushik from Florida International University, Prof Dilip Depan from   at Lafayetter, Prof Biman Mandal from IIT Guwahati.
 
 
