Chandigarh: A teenager and a man in his mid-20s were murdered in Haryana on Wednesday, in two cases of suspected honour killings.

 In Mahendergarh district, a 17-year-old boy was murdered on Wednesday morning allegedly by his girlfriend’s brother and cousin. The second case was reported from Matindu village of Kharkhoda police station in the Sonipat district. A bullet-ridden body of a man in his mid-20s was found in an outhouse on Wednesday morning.
 
 The Class XI student was in a relationship with a junior in school. They both belonged to the same community, but their families were opposed to their relationship. The boy’s family claimed that his girlfriend’s relatives were allegedly nursing a grudge against him and this led to his murder.
 
 The teenager was picked up from his school on Wednesday morning by the two accused, one of whom is a minor. They took him to a farm where they attacked him with sharp-edged weapons. The boy’s body was found in the afternoon. The body was handed over to the family after post-mortem.
 
 The two accused are yet to be arrested and the police are carrying out raids to trace them. Suspecting a threat to the girl’s life, the police have provided her security and are planning to send her to a safe house.
 
 “As a precaution, we have provided security to the girl and will send her to a safe house. The victim’s family has alleged that the girl’s family, especially her brother, were behind the incident. We have registered a murder case. We are waiting for the autopsy report to know exact number and nature of injuries. Our teams are conducting raids to round up the accused, one of whom is a minor,” said Mahendergarh superintendent of police Kamaldeep Goel.
 
 In Sonipat district, Deepak Singh’s body was found in a pool of blood on Wednesday morning and empty shells of bullets were found nearby. The police have started investigation after registering a case of murder against brothers and relatives of Deepak’s girlfriend. The case was registered on complaint of his father.
 
 The victim’s father claimed that his son was not interested in the girl, who lived in the same neighbourhood and claimed it was the girl who used to call up his son. The tiff between the two families over the so-called relationship had reached such a stage that the man’s family had complained about the girl’s behavior to her parents.
 
 Sonipat SP Satender Kumar Gupta said the investigation is in progress and the man’s body has been handed over to the family after post-mortem.
 
 
