BHUBANESWAR: The Congress-led opposition’s move seeking removal of   has come to haunt the party’s unit in Odisha which goes to the polls next year.

 
 A day after the   tried to quell uncertainty over leadership in the state and named new office-bearers, the party’s move against   has put it as the one opposed to a “worthy son”.
 
 With   and BJP throwing their weight behind Justice Misra, many state Congress leaders admit that the party has got isolated because people in Odisha see Justice Misra’s ascendancy as inspirational. “No Odia would like to see any political party in Odisha going against the son of the soil,” a Congress leader told TOI on Saturday.
 
 Congress veteran and former law minister  , however, said, “The move shouldn’t be seen politically. If there are documents against the CJI, one can’t oppose the move just because he is from Odisha.” BJP, which has replaced Congress as the main opposition to Naveen Patnaik-led BJD in the state, termed the removal move as “anti-Odisha”.
 
 Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan, in a series of tweets in Odia, wrote, “Attitude of Congress, which is now bringing removal motion against an accomplished and successful personality from Odisha, the Chief Justice of India, is always anti-Odisha. During its rule at the Centre, the Congress never gave Odisha its due. The removal move is reflection of Congress’ anti-Odisha approach.”
 
 BJD, too, termed the Congress move as “political”. BJD parliamentary party leader in the   said, “Congress should not stoop so low and threaten the judiciary.
 
 This removal is a reaction to certain developments for political reasons. This is unbecoming of a party. The allegations being brought against the CJI have been settled long ago. There is no truth in it.” Lawyers in the state on Saturday expressed solidarity with Justice Misra and condemned the Congress move.
 
 Lawyers in the Orissa HC had ceased work for a day on March 30 and lawyers in other parts of the state had boycotted court proceedings on April 2. The CJI cancelled his scheduled official visit to Odisha on Saturday and Sunday.
 
