AHMEDABAD: In early1999, there were more cars in Ahmedabad than two wheelers, but from mid-2000 the city saw an increase in number of two wheelers and in 2017 two-wheelers have come to constitute 72% of vehicles registered in a year.

 According to the transport department, of the 2.90 lakh vehicles registered in Ahmedabad 2.09 lakh were two wheelers while 57,661 were cars. In 1999 the number of two-wheelers that were registered were only 1,663 and the number of cars was 3,094.
 
  
  Experts feel that the city public transport has failed abysmally. The city’s Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS), which was designed to ease congestion on the roads by diverting private commuters to public transport has failed to achieve its goal. The 89-km BRTS coverage has in fact cut citizens’ usage of city public transport by nearly 18%.
 
 Officials said that before the launch of BRTS, passenger traffic was over 8 lakh commuters per day. Today, passenger traffic of   and AMTS combined is less. If the   is to be believed they themselves have admitted that AMTS and BRTS together are used by 8 lakh commuters.
 
 “Instead of increasing passenger number has remained stagnant even after eight years of BRTS operation. Actually, there has been a fall in the number,” said a senior AMC officer. The increase in private vehicles came because BRTs, despite having AC buses, has failed to attract passengers.
 
 Dr   the president of the   said, “As public transport failed in Ahmedabad, people were forced to use their own vehicles. Further the BRTS bus stations do not have parking facility. 
 
 Nor are they supported with feeder buses. I fear that even the   train service also does not have proper parking facility.”
 
 Though rate of fatal accidents involving two-wheelers is higher than in other vehicles two-wheelers continue to be popular due to their manoeuvrability through congested streets and traffic jams and ease of parking, besides obvious lesser fuel consumption compared to cars.
 
 Gaurang Jani, sociologist, says, “With the public transport failing and easy two-wheeler loans, it has become a necessity. Also with large number of women driving two wheelers, their number is increasing. Youngsters prefer two wheelers over cars as they make it easier to navigate through traffic jams.”
 
 
