​​Bengaluru: Even as chief minister H D Kumaraswamy gears up to expand his cabinet this week, a high-level bureaucratic reshuffle is on the cards, paving the way for another round of musical chairs for top bureaucrats, many of whom could even knock on the doors of the judiciary. For five months now, bureaucracy in Karnataka has been in a state of flux, thanks to frequent change of guard in the upper echelons of the administration.  Kumaraswamy is believed to be keen on filling up crucial positions with men and women of his choice and going by history, most key officials will be changed. Several officers, who were neglected during the Congress regime and have JD(S) leanings, are set to return to key posts. The alleged marginalization of Vokkaliga officers during the previous government is also said to have cost Congress dearly in the May 12 polls and benefited the JD(S). The key position of the chief secretary will fall vacant on June 30 with incumbent K Ratna Prabha due to retire. T M Vijay Bhaskar, in all probability, will be her successor, as he is being favoured by both JD(S) and Congress leaders, sources said. Several top IAS and IPS officers are keeping their fingers crossed, as they are awaiting marching orders any time. Setting the pattern It all started on January 22 ahead of the assembly polls when the previous Siddaramaiah government initiated the transfer of some 22 senior IAS and IPS officials. On March 5, the Election Commission (EC) put on hold some of these transfers, including that of then Hassan deputy commissioner Rohini Sindhuri as they were all engaged in the revision of electoral rolls. After the process ended, the officials were again shifted. While some IAS officers opted to take the legal course and got a stay, the government had the last laugh.  The spree of transfers continued after the polls. B S Yeddyurappa indulged in a transfer spree despite him remaining CM only for 55 hours. He initiated transfers of six top officials, including M Lakshminarayana (additional chief secretary to the CM) and senior IPS officer Amar Kumar Pandey (ADGP, intelligence).  These officials are expected to get marching orders, considering they have got branded as BJP loyalists. ‘There are norms to be followed’ An upset IAS official remarked: “The government has the discretion to make such administrative changes. But there are some norms to be followed. Going by rules, it is the state cabinet that should decide on transfers and postings. Nowadays, the chief minister takes all decisions that have affected work and demoralised officers. It’s high time PILs are filed to question the way the government here is functioning.”  According to may officers, the state government began flouting rules and norms of transfer in mid-2000s. Earlier, officials used to be transferred only in March so that the academic calendar of their children wasn’t affected. Now, on an average, three to four transfer orders of senior bureaucrats a month has become the order of the day. In fact, the setting up of a committee to look into police transfers hasn’t helped either.