PATNA: Two policemen were arrested on Friday for taking Rs700 as bribe to allow the jail inmates to take a bag containing four crude bombs and two loaded small firearms inside Patna City court premises, resulting in the blast in the Beur prisoners’ van on Tuesday.

 Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj told reporters that Anul Ansari, a constable, and special auxiliary police (SAP) personnel Vidyasagar Rai were arrested following rigorous interrogation and test identification parade (TIP) conducted with help of two inmates, Sonu Kumar and   Rai and seven criminals arrested near Mangal Talab under the Chowk police station area with five crude bombs, four country-made pistols and 14 live cartridges on Wednesday night.
 
 “Rai was bribed Rs200 while Ansari had taken Rs500 from Sonu inside the court premises,” Maharaaj said. He said the masterminds, Sonu and Sikandar, were taken on police remand immediately after the incident. Ansari and Rai were among the 13 police and seven special auxiliary police (SAP) personnel, who were suspended on the order of Patna zonal IG Nayyar Hasnain Khan soon after incident.
 
 Sonu, Sikandar with   and Avinash Kumar had made an abortive bid to escape from the prisoners’ van by exploding two bombs inside it near Dashratha Mor under the Beur police station area on Tuesday evening when they were being transported back to Beur central jail after their production in court.
 
 The SSP said Sonu was continuously bribing the policemen on every production date to allow him take bags with eatables and won their confidence. “Once the inmates believed that policemen won’t check their bags further, bombs and firearms hidden below fruits and other eatables were passed on Tuesday,” he said, adding inmates had been hatching the conspiracy for almost a month.
 
 “Inmates also used cellphones from inside the jail to contact their associates outside,” Maharaaj said. “The original plan was to escape from court premises by hurling bombs and opening fire, if required, but as Sikandar’s production did not take place even after being taken to court, the plan was changed,” he said. “Six criminals on three bikes were trailing the van from the court,” the SSP said.
 
 When asked, Maharaaj said nothing substantial surfaced against a sub-inspector leading the escort party inside the van. “He somehow misplaced a firearm seized from the inmate and out of fear was changing statements,” he added.
 
 
