Coimbatore: The members of the Tamil Nadu Butterfly Society, who undertook a butterfly walk at Kovai Coutrallam last week, spotted 102 species in a day.

 The team of five people from the non-profit organisation said that there was no systematic survey on butterflies in Tamil Nadu. “The list of butterflies available online is a just a copy of Kerala data, which also requires to be validated. So, we wanted to undertake a systematic survey and record butterfly species,” a member of the group said.
 
 The team, led by butterfly enthusiast H Theivaprakasham, started the survey on January 16. District forest officer N Satheesh helped and supported them. They walked from 7.30am to 3pm in the surrounding areas of the Siruvani Water Purification Plant and the road leading to the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border. 
 
 “We recorded 102 species of the total 324 species spotted in Tamil Nadu. This is roughly 31% of the total species in the Western Ghats. We saw rare species like painted courtesan and lesser albatross for the first time in Siruvani range,” said H Theivaprakasham, a member of the group. H Ramana Saran, Geethanjali R and Monica Gandhi were also a part of the group.
 
 The members said that butterfly walks are being conducted regularly in other states. “We have been doing it in Coimbatore for the last six years,” Theivaprakasham told TOI.
 
 As per the report submitted by the members to the forest department, of the 102 species, 40 belonged to the Nymphalidae family, 25 Lycaenidae and 13 Hesperiidae. Rare species like painted courtesan, tree flitter and gaudy baron were sighted near the water treatment plant checkdam area. Grey count, Malabar rose and black prince were spotted in Thannerpallam shola forest. Plenty of common sailers were seen on the stretch from the check dam till the TN-Kerala border . Huge populations of blue and dark blue tigers, common and double banded crows were spotted. Many were involved in mud puddling — males transferring nutrients collected from mud to females during mating. Glassy tigers and striped tigers were found in large numbers. Other rare sightings included white hedge blue, indigo flash, many-tailed oakblue and dinghy line blue.
 
 Forest department officials said that such surveys helped them understand if the habitat is healthy. “Since a good number of species have been found and a number of host plants were spotted, it suggests that the place is maintained well and is a good habitat,” said an official.
 
 
