One of the many joys of living in Kolkata is savouring the traditional Bengali sweets. And we’re not talking just about the exotic delights available at premium outlets. Even para sweet shops boast of signature mishtis, which you probably won’t get anywhere else. But in today’s world, where cut-throat competition is the keyword in business, most traditional Bengali sweet shops seem to be lagging behind on many counts. We tried to find out why and here’s what we found out...

 
 
 Most sweet shops are facing quite a few hurdles on their path to expansion. For one, there’s a constant shortage of labour, both skilled and unskilled. “We do everything, from making to distributing the sweets, manually. So, even if we open multiple outlets, we may not be able to deliver quality products to all of them on time,” said  , co-owner of   and  . To this Sandip Sen of Sen Mahasay added, “It takes a lot of time to train people. We are facing a shortage of management staff, and that’s stopping us from expanding.”
 
 Then there’s the usual space constraint, as most old shops were built keeping a loyal clientele in mind; not to cater to the huge commercial rush of modern times.  , the owner of   told us, “In order to expand the business we need a separate large space to manufacture a huge number of sweets. We need more space, manpower and machines. And getting all that together is not that easy for an old establishment likes ours.”
 
 Yet another deterrent is the opposition to the franchise model of business, which is now considered a global standard for retail expansion. “If we open franchise outlets, the franchisees will look only for profit. They may even sell stale sweets to ensure profit, which will bring disrepute to our brand image,” Tapan Das told us. To this, Partha Nandy added, “If we start that model, the quality of our products might 
 go down.”
 
 According to Sandip Sen, “If you want to maintain the quality of sweets, you need to supervise everything yourself. Moreover, if we want to franchise out, we need to enhance our production too. Right now, we don’t have the infrastructure to enhance the production rate.” 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 In an era where people are experimenting with the recipes of sweets, a major drawback for most Bengali sweet shops is the lack of diversification in their items. “Our focus is mainly traditional sweets, which are purely milk-based. We don’t want to deviate from that. We believe old is gold,” Tapan Das said.
 
 “We can’t deviate just for the sake of diversification and in the name of expanding business. We are famous for Bengali sweets,” said Sandip, who is strongly opposed to the idea of selling other confectionaries. “We deal with one specific product — sandesh, and that’s what we are known for. So, why should I deviate from that? We don’t feel the need,” Partha Nandy said.
 
 On the other hand, non-Bengali stores are totally open to experimentation. “Since summer is approaching, we will be making watermelon rosogollas. We’re even serving Rajasthani and Gujarati thalis, along with sweets,” said  , co-owner of Gupta Brothers. To this, Rahul Chaurasia, one of the owners of Ganguram’s, added, “Our main focus is the fusion sweets. They are in demand now as people prefer to have mango dahi or strawberry dahi rather than plain mishti doi.”
 
 
 
 While the entire world is trying to find ways to reduce manpower by using technology, Bengali sweet shop owners are among the few resisting it. “We have our own signature sweets and we don’t want machines to do that work. If we do that, we won’t be able to deliver the same quality of sweets; the texture will never be the same,” said Partha Nandy.
 
 But Muktesh Gupta has a different view. “Since we are facing labour issues, we are trying to manufacture sweets using machines. That will reduce our manpower requirements,” he said.
 
 
 
 Unlike most traditional Bengali sweet shops, others pay a lot of attention to the location and potential clientele of a particular area. “The location of the shops plays a very important role. We need to make sure that our shop is at a place that has proper parking facility and is frequented by a lot of people,” said Rahul Chaurasia.
 
 Natwarlal Tewari, of Tewari Brothers, said, “Today people don’t go to sweet shops just to buy sweets. They want to sit and chill. It’s more like an outing, so the location and ambience need to be good.”
 
 Muktesh Gupta had a similar view. “We have opened all our showrooms in posh locations and have designed the facade to make them easily visible to customers. Since we are serving Rajasthani thali, we have decorated our restaurants in a way that gives customers the feel of a typical Rajasthani household,” he said.
 
 
 
 Though both Bengali and Marwari sweet shops have tie-ups with online delivery portals, the latter have taken further initiatives to get more customers through their online activities. “We have our own official website. People sitting in any corner of the world can place their order through our website. Though we have tie-ups with multiple delivery portals, we have kept this option open too,” added Rahul Chaurasia.
 
 “We’re very active on social media like Facebook, Twitter etc. To engage with customers, we often have quizzes on sweets. We give hints and the customers are asked to identify the sweets or we ask questions about sweets which they need to answer,” said Muktesh.
 
 
 
 
