Rajkot/Palanpur/Vadodara: Mobs from various Rajput outfits including Karni Sena continued their rampage in Gujarat by targeting state transport buses and jamming the highways on Wednesday, triggering immense fear among the business establishments in Rajkot who have decided to remain shut.

 Around 48 passengers were stranded near Ratanpura village on national highway 14 at Thara in Banaskantha district after vandals attacked the Palanpur-Bhuj GSRTC bus. At around 3pm, a mob of around 25 broke the front glass of the bus. The driver sped away to Thara police station fearing that the bus would be torched and a complaint was lodged against unidentified persons.
 
 Bus services, however, continued even after the incident, said divisional control officer M K Damor in Palanpur. The bus services to Mansa and Mehsana were suspended from Himatnagar.
 
 Besides Ahmedabad, at least three GSRTC buses were vandalized in Saurashtra late night on Tuesday and Wednesday. An ST bus returning to Talaja bus depot from Bhavnagar was stoned near Varal village. A mob also jammed the highway near Una by burning tyres on the road and a complaint was lodged against 37 people. A mob also intercepted an ST bus near Bhader village of Dhoraji and broke its windows.
 
 Fearing attacks, private bus operators in Bhavnagar decided to suspend all their services on Thursday. Nearly 250 private buses run daily from Bhavnagar to various destinations like Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Jamnagar, Baroda, Gariyadhar, Palitana, Botad, Mahuva, Rajula and Diu. In fact, heavy rush was expected due to a three-day weekend beginning Friday.
 
 Rajendrasinh Gohil, president of Bhavnagar District Tours and Travels Association, said “Not a single bus will run on Thursday between 6am and 9pm. Rajputs have requested us to suspend the services to protect our buses from damage.” There are several villages near Bhavnagar where Rajput and Kshatriya communities are dominant. These include Tarapur, Pipli, Dholera, Bavlyari, Fedra, Vartej and Ribda near Rajkot. GSRTC has directed all bus drivers not to make night halts at villages and park the vehicles at the nearest police station. 
 
 Meanwhile, Rajput women also held a press conference in Rajkot and called for a ban on the movie’s release citing dignity of women. Volunteers of Karni Sena of Savli taluka jammed traffic on Ahmedabad-Vadodara Express Highway on Wednesday afternoon. The protestors blocked the highway near Poicha village leading to a long queue of vehicles going towards Ahmedabad for couple of hours. 
 
 Policemen from Bhadarva police station and local crime branch (LCB) of Vadodara rural police reached the spot and cleared the highway. A police official said that they had detained 27 protestors from the spot.
 
 
