BENGALURU: The JD(S)-Congress coalition government in Karnataka can finally get down to business after the confidence motion on Friday moved by chief minister HD   was passed with a voice vote even as   staged a walkout in protest.

 
 Earlier, the much-anticipated election of the speaker ended in an anticlimax within minutes of the House assembling as BJP informed pro tem speaker K G Bopaiah that it does not want to press for the election. The party withdrew its candidate S Suresh Kumar, paving the way for unanimous election of Congress’ six-term MLA K R Ramesh Kumar.
 
 Friday’s exercise was reduced to a sideshow as it was preceded by a bitter war of words between Kumaraswamy and his predecessor   in the House. Yeddyurappa made no bones about targeting Kumaraswamy and his family but intriguingly spared  . Yeddyurappa said he would call for a state-wide bandh, sparing Bengaluru, if the coalition government didn’t announce a farm loan waiver by Friday.
 
 With no surprise left in the trust vote as the numbers were clearly with the Congress-JD(S) alliance — 117 to 104 in favour of the alliance — Yeddyurappa made sure he hogged the headlines with his personal attacks on Kumaraswamy’s “untrustworthiness”.
 
 Kumaraswamy kicked off his speech by saying he was pained that voters hadn’t placed their trust in his party, but promised to work for a stable government. No party had got the full mandate, he said, and questioned how BJP could claim it had the right to run the government. “I am not hankering for power... nor is my family. We have spent much of our political life in the opposition,” he said.
 
 In an acerbic response, Yeddyurappa accused the JD(S) of opportunism and recalled how it had betrayed the Congress in a coalition arrangement in 2006. Without taking the name of Kumaraswamy’s father and former PM H D Deve Gowda, the BJP leader said: “The father & sons will ensure Congress is wiped out from Karnataka, beware. Congress will know their true colours in the next couple of months.” He also alleged that the Gowda family faced corruption charges.
 
 In a rebuttal, Kumaraswamy dubbed these remarks as “pure theatre” and said it was Yeddyurappa who had sent out feelers then, seeking a coalition. He tried to vehemently deny the tag of “betrayer” given to him after JD(S) pulled the rug from under BJP in 2007 and blamed the saffron party for forcing upon him conditions foisted by its central leadership.
 
 Soon after Yeddyurappa’s speech, BJP leaders walked out. The confidence motion was subsequently put to vote and it was passed unanimously.
 
 This is Kumar’s second stint as speaker. Earlier, he held the post during the Janata Dal governments (1994-99) headed by Deve Gowda and J H Patel.
 
 “It is a sweet coincidence that Ramesh Kumar, who was speaker when my father was CM, is in the chair again when I am CM,” Kumaraswamy said, congratulating him.
 
 
