KOCHI: With the   (CSML) initiating the process for inviting tenders worth Rs 440 crore, construction works as part of the project are expected to begin in August.

 
 CSML chief executive officer A P M Mohammed Hanish said the tenders will be finalised by June-July this year. “In my opinion it is possible to start project implementation in August,” he said. The Union government, Hanish said, is insisting on four specifics – development of an integrated command & control communication centre, market redevelopment, smart roads and navigable waterways. “The government wants the four aspects to become the motifs of the city,” said Hanish. In 2015, the plan was to implement 85 projects worth Rs 2,076 crore under the Smart City project. Later, the ministry of urban development (MoUD) reorganised them as impactful projects, thus finalising on the four mandates.
 
 The CSML target is to implement projects worth Rs 1,500 crore during the period 2018 -2019.
 
 The various projects implemented under the Smart City project include installation of LED lights, smart poles that provide mobile connectivity and Wi-Fi, walkways, pedestrian facilities, cycling paths, solar rooftops, smart metering of water supply and electricity, multi-level car parking, bicycle sharing, redevelopment of schools, colleges and hospitals.
 
 “We are spending Rs 17 crore for development of Ernakulam general hospital. We have also taken up projects to improve government hospitals in   and Fort Kochi and the Kalvathy school. Hibi Eden, MLA, has suggested renovation of SRV School and Maharaja’s College. It’s possible for us take up these projects also,” said Hanish.
 
 As part of making the roads smarter, Shanmugham Road, Banerji Road, MG Road and Durbar Hall Road and three roads in the heritage zone in West Kochi -- KB Jacob Road, Amaravati Road and Bellar Road --would be refurbished. Cycling paths will be developed along all these roads. There will be appropriate road signages, street furniture like benches and streetlamps, traffic barriers, bollards, traffic lights, traffic signs, bus bays, public lavatories and public sculptures. Underground utility ducts will be provided for water supply, sewerage, optical fibre communication cables, power cables and the like. There will be better pedestrian facilities, footpaths and crossings. The project also includes boulevards along the roads and landscaped areas in the multi-utility zones. The entire road development project is estimated to cost Rs 230 crore.
 
 CSML has planned a multi-level car parking at an estimated cost of Rs 50 crore at Kacheripady. This project is coming up at the land owned by Kochi corporation. It will free-up road space and will provide safe driving experience for commuters. The multilevel parking with a central control system would use Kochi 1cards for fare collection.
 
 The integrated command & control communication centre (IC4) apart from being the hub of intelligent traffic management systems and security surveillance will provide facilities for payment of utilities like power, water and taxes to local bodies. IC4 requires coordination of various government departments and agencies. This project is estimated to cost Rs 100 crore.
 
 The navigable waterways project would take up renovation of Kalvathy canal and Market canal. This project is linked to the implementation of Water Metro project. The market redevelopment project aims at rejuvenating Broadway, Ernakulam market and the spices market in Mattancherry.
 
