Ahmedabad: When Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s India visit was being finalized in January, one man, a Gujarati, too had a month-long hectic schedule in Toronto. He was busy contacting Canada’s leading businessmen and trying to ensure that all top businessmen from Canada visit his home state. He successful did it and ultimately led a 65-member delegation, the biggest-ever - to India with all businessmen also visiting Gujarat.

 Naresh Chavda, the vice president of Indo Canadian Chamber of Commerce (ICCC), had a hectic time here too. He did his best to showcase what his motherland had to offer to the businessmen who had a series of meetings in Mumbai and Delhi.
 
 “I would term it as an extremely comprehensive and a fruitful visit,” said Chavda, who also founded Gujarat Public Affairs Council (GPAC), an organization whose aim is to bind all Non Resident Gujaratis (NRGs) in Canada as well as lend a helping hand to new settlers there.
 
 Born in a farmer’s family in Dasada-Patdi town adjoining the Little Rann of Kutch in Surendranagar district, Chavda is a prominent name, not only among the huge Gujarati community settled in Canada but also the government circles.
 
 As an immigration consultant and “Commissioner of Oath –Ontario”, he is among just 2-3 Gujaratis who have earned this title, which requires a five-semester study.
 
 But early schooling in a remote area like Patdi wasn’t very smooth. “I changed five schools in different villages from class 1 to class XI,” said Chavda, who then completed his textile Technology engineering from Ahmedabad’s LD Engineering College in 1999.
 
 Chavda was never interested in machines but only passionate about studying law.
 
 “I always wanted to stay among people and do some community-based work,” said the 39-year-old who is now preparing for a large-scale celebration of Gujarat Day on May 1 in Toronto where 500 people are expected to participate.
 
 After earning a gold medals in law from Gujarat Law Society and armed with MBA LL.M and PGDHRM degrees, Chavda got permanent residency of Canada in 2004. “Frankly, I was not satisfied with the pay here and satisfaction of work. There were financial struggles. The main objective of going to Canada was to do research in law, especially immigration law,” said Chavda, who became a permanent resident in 2005.
 
 He initially worked as a data processor for couple of months before landing a job with Canada’s leading newspaper Toronto Star as an independent sales crew manager. “In the interview, I was asked if I had a driving license and reliable vehicle. Though I did not have one, the Gujarati risk-taking instinct in me was strong. I said yes and gave my best performance by raising 11 independent sales crew managers that gave employment to 300-400 young Indo-Canadian,” recalled Chavda.
 
 Chavda’s connect with the Gujarati diaspora is so strong that Canada’s law makers heavily banked on him to ensure the success of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s event in Ricoh Coliseum on April 15, 2015. “It was a challenge because of extremely cold weather. But we got record 18,000 registrations. But we could accommodate only 10, 000,” said Chavda, who got a letter of appreciation for the hard work from Jason Kenney, Minister for Multiculturalism.
 
 “The response and energy of nearly 10,000 attendees at the Toronto community centre was remarkable, which is a credit that goes to you and all other volunteers who made it possible,” the ministry’s letter stated.
 
 Asked about GPAC’s work in Gujarat, Chavda said that highest on his agenda is providing free quality education to poor children in Gujarat. “We have already started planning. We will utilize government data and meticulously reach out to maximum the needy students to ensure their free education right up to higher studies. The ultimate aim will be equip them with such skills which will help them live a quality life.”
 
 Another plan in the offing is Swachhata. “Our teams have already surveyed some coastal areas in Jamnagar district and few villages near Dhrangadhra to take up cleanliness with the help of scientific technology. We will start the work after consultations with the state government,” said Chavda.
 
 Gujarat Bhavan in Toronto soon
 
 Ahmedabad: Gujaratis going to Canada will no more feel out of place when they land in Toronto. Gujarat Public Affairs Council (GPAC) is planning to build ‘Gujarat Bhavan’, a multi-layered facilitation centre for all the new Gujaratis coming to Canada. “New comers to Canada, be it Gujarati or any other Indians, are apprehensive about settling down, getting job, getting acclimatized etc. We will ensure they comfortably settle down without any hassles.”
 
 GPAC also plans to establish a special facility for the old-aged people. “These senior citizens don’t need homes…they live with financially sound family. But they are lonely. They need to socialize. We will soon be building a 3-4 layer centre where old people can come and spend quality time,” he said.
 
 
