PANAJI: FC   surprised many with their domestic quota of players in the Indian Super League (ISL) as they fought their way into the playoffs for the first time.
 
  Players like Vishal Kaith, Gurtej Singh, Sahil Panwar, Rohit Kumar, Ashique Kurniyan and Isaac Vanmalsawma may not have been among India’s top-ranked players but they gave a wonderful account of themselves in the ISL, proving they were as good as anyone else.
  
  Then there was Adil Khan who resurrected his career at FC Pune City. Now, two more Goans are following the same path as   and Gabriel Fernandes have signed a two-year contract with the Pune franchise.
  
  Although Keenan won the ISL title with Chennaiyin FC, he had just four appearances for the winners. The right-back had made a name for himself with Salgaocar FC and   in previous seasons but fell down the pecking order at Chennaiyin FC where Spanish full-back Inigo Calderon was in inspirational form.
  
  “Our team was doing really well and I couldn’t expect the coach to change the playing eleven because of me,” Keenan told TOI on Saturday.
  
  Chennaiyin had the most disciplined defence with the centre-back pairing of Henrique Sereno and Mailson Alves in top form. Full backs   and Inigo Calderon often surged ahead to help their attackers.
  
  “Personally, it was a bit disappointing because I didn’t get to play as much I thought I would. But the main objective is to see the team win and it was completely successful. On that basis, it was a successful season. For Pune, I will have to continue my hard work and establish myself in the squad,” said Keenan.
  
  Chennaiyin were keen on retaining the former FC Goa right-back but a two-year contract by Pune was enough to lure the Goan defender.
  
  Gabriel is also looking at resurrection after his career appeared to go downhill in the last couple of years. Known for his daunting runs down the flanks, Gabriel will return to the ISL after a two-year absence.
  
  The former FC Goa and Mumbai City FC winger was left to do duty for I-League clubs like Churchill Brothers and East Bengal during the last two seasons. At both clubs, he didn’t get too many chances to establish himself. Last season, he managed only two appearances as Khalid Jamil’s team finished fourth.
  
  The 29-year-old is familiar with the city as he turned out for Pune FC in the past and will now hope the city can do him another favour.
