She was just nine, when she danced into the hearts of Telugu audiences singing “Boochadamma Boochadu...” in NT Rama Rao’s Badi Panthulu. Little   played his granddaughter in the 1972 film. Over the next five decades, as she grew up in front of the camera, the audience watched her grow from a child artiste to heroine to Telugu cinema’s ‘lady superstar’ of the 80s and 90s... With over 80 films in Telugu, 
spanning over 24 years, Sridevi will always be remembered as Tollywood’s ‘Athiloka Sundari’.
 
 
 Sridevi began acting at the age of just 4, which means she literally grew up in the limelight. The ease with which she played the role of Duryodhana’s sister in Bala Bharatam, made filmmakers sit up and take notice. Even back then, they knew they were witnessing a phenomenon in the making; a born superstar. But it was the cult film Padaharella Vayasu directed by Raghavendra Rao (originally 16 Vayathinile by Bharitiraja in Tamil, also featuring Sridevi) which paved the way for her success as a mainstream actor. Suddenly, Sridevi wasn’t just a talented child artiste, she had already begun her journey towards superstardom.
 
 
 Given the fact that she began acting from a very young age, Sridevi was deprived of a normal childhood. She couldn’t be regular to school because of her acting commitments and didn’t experience the little joys that children do, like making friends, attending classes together, going for picnics, etc. Sridevi often spoke about how it was lonely being at the film set as there was nobody of her age. And yet, at critical junctures of her life, she 
 always chose films. 
 “I was a good student. For a while, my parents did make me cope with school and films simultaneously. When we’d go on outdoor shoots, a teacher would accompany us. But after a point, this wasn’t practical. I had to choose between studies and films. I chose films,” the actress said in an interview to Filmfare magazine. 
 Sridevi, however, was always determined that her children will have a normal childhood and that they will not be thrust into cinema like she was. In fact, Sridevi took pride in bringing up her children away from the limelight. And when the time came, her daughter Jhanvi too chose to act. While promoting her film Mom, which turned out to be her last film, Sridevi said, “I cannot expect my daughter to be the way I was with my mother at their age. Both my daughters have been brought up with certain ethics and values and know where to draw a line. These days, there are more professional managers and crew and filmmakers, but there is absolutely no substitute for hard work. It is not something Jhanvi can take for granted. My daughters know where I came from and they know where to draw a line.”
 
 
 Once she chose cinema, the legend of Sridevi grew further and further. She was the only actress to have featured with three generations of Telugu superstars. She acted opposite cinema legends NTR and  , and then matched steps with the next generation actors like Shobhan Babu, Krishna, Murali Mohan and Chandramohan. Later, Sridevi also acted opposite the next wave of actors like   and  , often dominating the screen space. In fact, her on-screen presence was such that she overshadowed the lead actors. Her dialogues and expressions were timeless and would linger in the audience’ minds, long after they left the cinema halls. And it was this trait that earned her the moniker ‘female superstar’ ––– no mean feat in a highly patriarchal industry. And at a time when the shelf-life of an actress was getting smaller and smaller, with superstars preferring to act 
 opposite younger heroines, Sridevi stood tall and remained numero uno. Fierce and confident, Sridevi’s unabashed love for cinema always kept her going. When she played the female lead opposite the legendary NTR, decades after she played his granddaughter, it became a scandal. She was also the only actress to work with the father-son duo of ANR and Nagarjuna, another move that raised eyebrows. But she carried on relentlessly and it is her body of work that will forever remain in our memory.
 If her expressions as she said Devuda Devuda in Kshana Kshanam was a timeless quote, she famously sidelined superstar   in JagadekaVeerudu  . She made us all believe that she was truly a goddess who had descended from heaven. Her outing in Akhari Poratam was equally memorable, in which people turned up in numbers for her and not Nagarjuna — the lead actor in the film. It was her versatility that made Sridevi a class apart from the rest. She could transform into Charlie Chaplin with just a moustache or turn into a goddess with a signature dance move in a saree. Sridevi had the rare quality of transforming into the character she would play, with unmatched beauty and unparalleled expressions, it wasn’t long before she turned into a poster girl for cinema. 
 
 
 In 1997, Sridevi took a break from acting and got married. She was at the peak of her career, and perhaps, the country’s biggest lady superstar. Her last Telugu film was the Chiranjeevi-starrer SP Parashuram in 1994. Nearly two decades later, she made a comeback with the Bollywood film English Vinglish. Sridevi was offered the role of Sivagami in SS Rajamouli’s magnum opus   but she turned it down and instead took up the lead role in Tamil film Puli. She spoke about a potential comeback in Tollywood but was admittedly selective since she wanted to spend time with her kids. SP Parushuram was indeed her last Telugu film, but the legend of Sridevi will live on in the hearts of the cinema-goers. The Athiloka Sundari, who had us convinced she’s a goddess who had descended from the skies, has now returned to the heavens. 
 
 
 
 Sridevi had created her own unique style of dance: Jayasudha
 I first met her in Chennai when she was six years old. She was already famous as a child artiste then and was a neighbour of my aunt (Vijaya Nirmala). We worked as contemporaries for around 10 films including Gajadonga and Premabhishekam. She was a woman of few words, very shy and only spoke to those she knew intimately. She was totally in love with cinema and was conscious of the fact that it was important for a heroine to look good on screen. She worked towards that relentlessly. Sridevi also created her own unique style of dance. The last time I met her was at a function in honour of Subbiramireddy garu. She spoke about her daughter Jhanvi’s debut and I recall her saying that being Sridevi’s daughter would only guarantee her an entry into the world of films but Jhanvi would still have to start from scratch to create her own niche. 
 
 As long as cinema survives, she will live in the hearts of her admirers: Chiranjeevi
 I never thought that such a day like this would come. Andam Abhinayam Kalabosina Nati Sridevi (She was a blend of beauty and talent). She was an extraordinary actress, unparalleled. I still cannot digest the fact that our Athiloka Sundari is no more. I was inspired by her dedication and learnt a lot from her. The last film we did together was SP Parasuram. She came with her husband for my 60th birthday celebrations. As long as cinema survives, she will remain in the hearts of crores of her admirers.
 
 Every expression of hers still remain etched in my mind: Venkatesh
 I’m very shocked and sad to hear that Sridevi is no more. A very unfortunate day for the nation to have lost such an amazingly talented star. As her co-star in Kshana Kshanam, every expression of hers still
 remains etched in my mind. Although she achieved fame and popularity at a very young age, she always remained humble and graceful. Her exemplary career is an inspiration for every newcomer wanting to be a part of the industry. God bless her soul and family, I feel the pain with them. Sridevi will be missed always.
 
 She said I was very lucky for her: Chandra Mohan
 I knew her as a child artiste and she used to sit in my lap during shoots and play. I never imagined that she would one day act opposite me as a heroine. It happened with Padaharella Vayasu. Director Raghavendra Rao was initially hesitant to cast her as the Tamil version of the movie had flopped in which she was paired with Kamal Haasan. But we convinced him to give her the lead role. Another problem was that she was tall and I was short. Those were the days when I was having a very successful run as hero. She gave me some excellent tips during the shoot saying Kamal did a particular scene like this in Tamil and so on which helped me a lot. Padaharella Vayasu became a huge success and ran for 300 days and wherever she went, she used to say that I was very lucky for her. Even as a child artiste, she withstood a lot of competition and created a niche for herself. In fact, such was her screen presence that she would overshadow the heroes she was paired with. The Indian film industry has lost a legend and I express my deepest condolences to her family. It feels like I’ve lost a member of my family.
 
 My association with Sridevi began in Tirupati: Mohan Babu
 My association with Sridevi has been there for a long time. Her mother hailed from Tirupati and we would often meet there. We have done a lot of films together and her loss to the industry is irreplaceable. My condolences to her entire family and may her soul rest in peace.
 
 We have lost one of our precious gems: Madhuri
 This is saddening and shocking news. Sridevi was an extremely talented and versatile performer who was a treat to watch right through her career. We have truly lost one of our most precious gems. She had the ability of creating a place in people’s hearts through her performances and has, in so many ways, been an inspiration for many. I remember when we met on the set of Jhalak Dikhhla Jaa, we danced together and had a lot of fun. It will be the moment I’ll cherish forever. My love, wishes and prayers to her entire family.
 
