Coimbatore: After slumping to the lowest level in a decade last November, allocation to IT (information technology) stocks by mutual funds (MFs) is gaining momentum. Fund houses have increased their allocation to shares of IT companies by 2.1% on an overall basis in the last three months.

 “The realignment process back from financials into IT has just begun, and if history is anything to go by, it will pick up pace further,” said Sunil Jain of Elara Capital. Post 2014, MF Nifty allocation to financials increased by 10%, from 28% to about 38%. The risk of multi-decade heavy over-ownership by MFs in financials was built at the cost of massive under-ownership in IT.
 
 This was primarily on the back of three big events — the Modi victory in 2014, RBI Asset Quality Review during the end of 2015 and demonetisation (end-2016). Allocations moved out of IT, with MF holdings reducing by 11% — from 22% to 11%. Among index names, the largest allocation moved out of TCS, Reliance Industries and ITC into ICICI Bank, SBI and HDFC Bank. “However, since the start of 2018, we have started seeing signs of stronger outperformance and break-outs emerging in the most under-allocated names. We think despite the one leg of big move in IT, the uptrend will be a sustained one,” Jain said.
 
 MF IT holding has been bottoming in the range of 6.5%-7% except during the global financial crisis in 2008 when it dropped sharply but recovered in a year’s time. MF IT allocation into non-Nifty stocks has dropped to the lowest range in two decades, data compiled by Elara Capital showed. “This is another sign of unfavoured and under-allocated sector among local funds portfolios. In the past, such lower readings have resulted in stronger upside move once the reversal began,” he said.
 
 “This trend will gain strong pace once we see financials turning weak as there could be faster shift of capital into IT. Many financial measures have already started to turn weak,” Jain said. While IT stocks, Reliance and ITC are the largest underweight, their relative price performance has started to show stronger trends of breaking out from multi-year resistances, he said. The allocation to financials as a percentage of the assets under management of MFs has reached close to the highs seen in 2008 from where the reversal has begun. “Any large reversals will significantly benefit IT, which remains the largest under-allocated sector among local MFs. In the past, reversal from such high zone has brought about a big round of outperformance in IT,” Jain stated.
 
 
 
