A report has found that 77% of British Sikhs find their lives in the UK stressful. The British Sikh Report 2018 also finds that it is the culture of Sikhs to not discuss their emotions and many British Sikhs blame depression on the evil eye, black magic or a spiritual imbalances. 

 The sixth annual report, which also found that only 5% of British Sikhs want to retire to  , will be launched with a cross party of politicians at Portcullis House on Wednesday night. 
 
 "This year we placed a higher focus on the questions about mental health," said Jasvir Singh OBE, chair of the   Report. "As part of that we commissioned an article to analyse the data."
 
 The report found that 80% of Sikh women and 68% of Sikh men knew someone who had had a mental problem in the past year. 
 
 Dr Jagbir Jhutti-Johal, a senior lecturer in theology and religion at the University of Birmingham, who was commissioned to write the article, wrote: "Within the Punjabi language there is no word for mental illness/depression. Metaphors and proverbs such as 'my heart is heavy', 'my head is heavy' and 'sinking heart' are common in the vocabulary of the older generation, and do not resonate with western biomedical terms/definitions for mental illness."
 
 She wrote the British Sikh cultural interpretation of mental illness was attributed to the evil eye/stare (najjar), black magic (jadu tona), the concept of spirit possession (djinn) or to spiritual imbalances arising due to a person's haumai (ego and self-centeredness) and because of their karma (past actions), as opposed to genetic, biological, psychological, and environmental factors.
 
 Some Sikhs in the UK have been known to visit Hindu Pundits (priests) and Muslim Pirs (a Sufi master or spiritual guide) for cures for mental ill health, she wrote.
 
 This attitude has resulted in mental ill health being viewed as something to be ashamed of, a sign of weakness, and something not to be spoken about due to the notions of honour (izzat) and shame (sharam).
 
 "This internal wall of silence in turn has also meant that the Sikh community has been viewed externally as a success story - families successful in education, employment and business, enjoying 'perfect' lives when actually, if we scratch at the veneer of this successful community, problems of depression and mental ill health soon present themselves," she wrote.
 
 The annual report, which seeks to identify the needs and wants of the 432,000 strong Sikh population in the UK, found that 10 per cent of Sikh women have been diagnosed with mental health issues compared to five per cent of Sikh men. 
 
 
