CHANDIGARH: The   government on Tuesday approved the Haryana   (Procedure) Rules, 2017 to pave way for the setting up of State Administrative Tribunal (SAT) for “quicker redressal of employees’ grievances or service matters”.

 With this, the state government employees will have to approach the SAT regarding their grievance against the state government. As of now, they had to approach the high court for any directions against the state.
 
 Once it comes into existence, the SAT would fetch a large number of cases from the high court. As of now, around 200 cases related to the service matters of Haryana are being heard every day by two single benches of the Punjab and Haryana high court. The maximum disputes that come to the HC from Haryana are related to government recruitments.
 
 The SAT would be in the lines of the   (CAT), which hears grievances of the central government employees related to service matters against the Union government.
 
 While the Haryana government has claimed that establishment of SAT will prove advantageous and essential in view of the increasing number of court cases relating to service matters and disputes of employees at the high court, the employees association and other legal experts have mixed reactions on the setting up of a new institution in the state.
 
 Subhash Lamba, secretary general,   said since the appointment of the members/chairman of state tribunal would be made by the state government, there are chances that the decisions passed by the SAT are influenced by the state.
 
 Meanwhile, noted rights activist and high court lawyer H C Arora is of the view that by setting up a SAT, the load of service matters would be off from the Punjab and Haryana high court, which would then be able to dispose of the petitions on important matters effectively.
 
 “For example, in the CAT the matter related to central government employees is decided within 6 months but a service matter relates to Haryana or Punjab at the high court gets adjournments for six months. I think SAT would curtail the time period in deciding a service-related dispute”, says Arora, who had practiced in CAT for a long time. He was also of the view that litigants would have to shell out half of the lawyer’s fee in the SAT than what they presently pay at the high court.
 
 R S Chaudhary, former Haryana IAS officer and secretary of INLD, said the SAT would create another round of litigation to the litigants/employees. “The appeal against the SAT would ultimately be heard by the high court and I think creating one more platform for litigants would be not be much help,” he said.
 
 
