CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government’s proximity with the Centre has not helped the state, which has received virtually no assistance for development from Delhi, said   working president M K Stalin on Thursday.

 Participating in a debate on governor Banwarilal Purohit’s address in the assembly, Stalin said he had praised the state government all through the speech even though TN had not received anything from the Centre.
 
 This has been the case for the past three years, said Stalin, adding that economic and manufacturing growth were low. “The governor’s address to the assembly must be a statement of policy to tell the public about the government’s course. But after reading the entire speech, I get the feeling that it is a paper flower. What is the use of being close to the Centre if the state government is not able to get any project or aid from the Centre,” asked Stalin. The government had asked for ₹25,912 crore in assistance in 2015 after Chennai floods, but received only ₹1,305 crore. After the 2016 cyclone, the government asked for ₹22,573 crore relief but received only ₹218.76 crore and again for drought in the same year, the government requested the Centre for ₹39,565 crore assistance but got just ₹1,447.99 crore.
 
 Chief minister   intervened, accusing the DMK of doing nothing for the state despite being part of the central government for a long time. “Your party was in alliance with the   as well as the   for 14 years. What projects did you bring to Tamil Nadu? At present, we are not in alliance at the Centre, but still are trying our best to get new projects and aid for the state,” said Palaniswami. He said there were some projects like new bus stands coming up in Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem. Stalin reacted by listing out various projects which were set up in Tamil Nadu when the DMK was part of the UPA government at the Centre.
 
 Stalin said, “In the governor’s address, there is no mention about the problems faced by farmers due to the   project. It talks about the financial crunch, but there is no mention about how the government is going to deal with the increasing debt.” As ministers tried to clarify, Stalin said such details should have been there in the address. he also asked why Lokayukta was not being set up and why Tamil was not being used as an official language in the HC.
 
