KOLKATA: The 59-year-old ASI who allegedly shot himself in a suicide bid is now stable and doctors at SSKM Hospital said they might shift him out of the   in a couple of days. Call it luck, miracle or wrong positioning of the revolver, but the bullet went past the major brain arteries of   on April 17, when the on-duty policeman reportedly tried to kill himself at Bhawani Bhavan.

 
 Doctors used 3D reconstructive imaging to trace the path of the bullet, which pierced through his optical nerves, avoiding his brain arteries. The ASI had aimed the revolver at his right temporal fossa. The bullet first hit his right orbit, went past the frontal lobe and exited through the left temporal fossa. According to doctors who have dealt with such cases of attempted suicide, the fatality depends on the spot at which the person aims and also on the angle of the shot.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 “The bullet had passed through the trajectory of the optic disk causing severe damage to his vision. Luckily, it just grazed the frontal lobe of the brain, missing the main brain arteries by a couple of millimetres. This saved him from a fatal brain injury,” said Dr  , associate professor of anaesthesiology at SSKM Hospital who also heads the hospital’s ITU where Bhattacharya is undergoing treatment.
 
 “The patient is now stable. He is on a normal diet. We plan to shift him to the general ward in a few days,” Choudhury added.
 
 “If the person shoots straight into the brain, the bullet would rip apart all the main arteries and nerves. The intense bleeding would cause death within a very short time,” said Dr S N  , neurosurgery head at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals.
 
 A medical team, including neurosurgeons, eye specialists, ENT experts and plastic surgeons, meet regularly to treat Bhattacharya. The entry and exit wounds have been stitched up and bleeding from the anterior part of the brain has almost been brought under control. He is on conservatory treatment. However, doctors said his vision recovery was gloomy.
 
 According to investigators, Bhattacharya probably sat on the floor before shooting himself. This would have affected the angle and direction of the shot.
 
 If he had aimed the trigger a little behind the temporal fossa, the bullet would have gone straight into the brain, killing him on the spot.
 
