ROPAR: A team comprising two Indian scientists, including an alumnus of the   (IIT),  , has made huge progress in the field of nanotechnology while carrying out research in the labs of the  , US. They have made nanotexture coating for synthetic leather that repels water and oil, keeping the surface protected for years.

 The work carried out by the research team comprising lab’s director Professor Bharat   and IIT alumnus Dev Gurera is being acclaimed as an important event in the field of nanotechnology.
 
 Interacting with the TOI from Ohio, eminent scholar Prof Bhushan said the nano-engineered texture was inspired by nature and has properties of the lotus leaf. He said the invention has a huge potential for extensive use in furniture, automotive interiors, clothing, shoes and handbags, and any products for which people use synthetic leather.
 
 Bhushan, who specializes in biomimetics, said people who often worry about staining their favourite leather-like jackets or peeling bare legs from a sticky vinyl car seat in the summer, this nano-coating is going to provide a lasting solution. He said it can be compared with self-cleaning glass and a mesh that separates oil from water.
 
 Prof Howard D Winbigler of the mechanical engineering department at the   university, who remained associated with the research, said, “It is the first time someone has managed to fabricate synthetic leather that is not just water resistant, but super-liquiphobic as it repels both water and oil-based liquids, besides, being heat resistant.”
 
 Explaining about the invention, Dev said, “Synthetic leather is made from fabric coated with plastic, usually polyurethane (PU) or polyvinyl chloride (PVC). Both PVC and PU can be moulded into flat sheets with grooves that give it a leather-like texture. Like genuine leather, synthetic leather is somewhat permeable to liquids. Unlike genuine leather, it gets sticky at high temperatures because heat softens the plastic surface. He said in their previous experiments of creating water and oil-repellent surfaces, the researchers tried to create a bumpy texture by spraying a coating of silica nano-particles on the surface of the synthetic leather.
 
 Gurera, who is the doctoral student at the university, said they quickly discovered that the plasticizers in the synthetic leather, that is, the chemicals that give plastic its plasticity, prevented the nano-particles from sticking, especially inside the leather-like grooves. So they cleaned the surface with an ultraviolet light treatment commonly used in computer chip manufacturing following which the nano-particles stuck to the clean synthetic leather, creating a bumpy surface.
 
 Bhushan said coated texture also exhibited durability and heat resistance up to 70 degrees Celsius making it the next big thing in all areas where synthetic leather is used.
 
 
