The latest episode of   starts with Neil waiting for Ballu, who had promised to produce evidence against Vidyut. Ballu arrives donning a burqa but  's men catch him before he could meet Neil.

 Neil goes home and tells Avni that Ballu failed to show up but they will catch Vidyut as he has a video in which he is seen buying a gun. He tells her that the commissioner will soon issue an arrest warrant against him.
 
 Avni calls Vidyut and tells him that he will foil his plans by proving that Prakash is innocent.
 
 The scene shifts, the Commissioner tells Neil, much to everyone's shock, that Prakash is Neela's murderer and orders him to be arrested. DD plays a CD in which Prakash is seen shooting at Neil, and Neela coming in the way and getting shot in the process. Everyone is in denial and Prakash is stricken with remorse after seeing the video. He takes a gun and shoots himself. Avni shouts and comes back to her senses. This scene was playing in her head and in reality, none of this had happened. Neil assures her that they will catch Vidyut sooner than later.
 
 Meanwhile, Vidyut is seen waiting in a mandap with the Pandit present to carry out the ceremony. Vidyut says that the bride is on her way.
 
 Avni, who is in a dilemma, gets a call from Vidyut, in which he tells her that the mandap is ready. Avni goes out and sees Bebe lighting a diya. Prakash is seen waiting for Shanti puja items and just then, he gets a gift from a delivery boy. Vidyut keeps threatening her on the phone. He tells her that he has sent a bridal dress and that she has an hour to decide.
 
  
 Avni is seen debating the options that she is presented with. If she accepts Vidyut's offer it will br unbearable for the family to come to terms with it. On the other hand, if she refuses to do the same Neil will end up arresting Prakash. She is seen having a dialogue with herself in which she concludes that in order to put an end to this she has to get away from everyone. Keep watching this space to know how Avni will get out of this one.
 
