NEW DELHI: The government on Wednesday moved to amend the   (IBC) and treat home-buyers as financial creditors or at par with banks, a move that will give them a say in the resolution process of ailing companies such as   and Amrapali.

 
 Although the amendments through an 
  will be prospective, it will have bearing on cases that are already facing insolvency proceedings and the resolution plan is in the works, experts said.
 
 The amendments will enable representatives of home-buyers to be part of the committee of creditors, which finally approves a resolution plan based on a bidding process and is meant to ensure that banks do not secure only their interests while the most-aggrieved player gets a raw deal.
 
 
  
  
 
 But it also creates 
  To begin with, the extent of representation on the committee of creditors is unclear. For instance, Jaypee Infratech had raised around Rs 13,500 crore from home- buyers by way of booking amount and instalments, which is far higher than the Rs 9,800 crore raised from banks to construct the apartments, Taj Expressway and a hospital.
 
 While a banker said this will create a situation where the home-buyers will have a greater say, insolvency lawyers said this may not be the case as the home-buyer is entitled to get an apartment, along with penalty for delayed delivery. But a refund is not provided for in the contract. In case of bank loans, the repayment schedule is clearly provided for. “It’s a position that will be clear when the rules are issued,” said a legal expert. A banker said resolution will be more time-consuming once home-buyers come on board.
 
 
  
 
 The government will also stipulate how the representative of the home-buyers will be chosen. A committee headed by corporate affairs secretary  , which recommended an upgraded status for home-buyers, who are currently treated like suppliers as they are classified as operational creditors, had suggested that a trustee or an agent be appointed to represent certain classes of financial creditors. Alternatively, the   (NCLT) can appoint a resolution professional for each class of financial creditors, such as deposit holders, those with debentures or home-buyers.
 
 While the move will also help secure the interest of mortgage players, it is seen to be making life tougher for banks that lend to real estate companies, at least in the short run.
 
 “Treating flat-buyers as financial creditors is disappointing. At macro level, it will have ramifications on funding for real estate sector as banks will be skeptical of sharing the table with home-buyers who are likely to be more inward looking then viewing the larger picture. At micro level, managing the creditors committee meetings with flat-buyers will be a humongous task for insolvency professionals. I am also concerned why enactment of provisions for cross border insolvency law are being delayed,” said  , an insolvency lawyer. Realtors too raised similar concerns with Pankaj Bajaj, president of industry lobby group CREDAI’s   saying that “the system must uphold the superiority of a bank mortgage over any other claim”, else banks may become hesitant in lending to the sector.
 
 While India Ratings said the move will be positive and benefit home-buyers, it also warned of possible drawbacks for lenders. “This can negatively impact the lenders since the recovery proceeds will now have another layer of distribution, which was not factored in at the time of origination of loan to the developer. This will effectively increase the realised haircuts for the financiers. Home-buyers could recover some portion of their dues in case the builder defaults as against the current scenario where buyers have to depend on the residual value after financial creditors are paid, which entails higher hair-cuts (or sacrifice).”
 
 
