MADURAI: Arrangements are in full swing for the much-awaited   events in the district and people are working round-the-clock in   where the famous sport will be held on January 16. Chief minister and deputy chief minister are also expected to take part in it.

 Construction of the gallery for spectators and also sheds to house the bulls that come to participate in the games is being carried out. The first jallikattu of the season will be held on Pongal day, January 14. As many as 675 bull tamers and 954 bulls have registered for the Avaniapuram event. As many as 1,188 tamers got their tokens to participate in the Palamedu event to be held on January 15. More than 300 men who did not have proper documents or found unfit, were disqualified.
 
 On Friday, the registration for the game in Alanganallur was held and thousands of men, in the age group of 18 to 40 sat in long queues under the hot sun to register their names. Many of them had come from southern districts to register their names and as the TNSTC bus strike had been called off, the crowds started increasing in the afternoon. “Myself and some of my friends had booked a small van for Rs 3,000 to come and register our names from Theni, but as the bus strike was called off, we saved that amount,” said   of Theni. Police had to resort to a mild lathicharge to control the crowds in Alanganallur.
 
 The animals brought for Alanganallur will be kept in nearby villages before being brought to the venue. Owners are vying with each other to secure the top slots to ensure that their animals get an opportunity to enter the arena before the event ends in the evening. 
 
 As chief minister   is expected to visit Alanganallur, the roads are also being relaid.
 
 After registering their names, many of them started exercising to get fit for the D-Day. Shanmugam, who had brought his bull, said that scrutiny was very strict this time and both the fitness of the animal and the tamer were being considered as if they were being recruited for the forces. Owners have to bring a certificate of fitness from veterinary doctors in their region to register their animals. Also, the animals have to be more than three years of age and more than four feet tall.
 
 Madurai collector  , who inspected the three venues on Friday said all precautionary measures were being taken and steps were taken to provide basic amenities for those attending the event.
 
 
