NOIDA: In a late-night drive,   confiscated nearly 40   operating illegally in five different areas in the city. The move is part of a massive an anti-encroachment drive launched from February 6. Now, any encroachment on Noida’s notified land invites hefty fines ranging from Rs 2,500 to Rs 50,000 apart from impounding of property.

 According to Noida Authority, the drive lasted from 9pm on Friday to 6am on Saturday amid heavy police presence. “Our teams scoured their respective areas and seized the food vans,” said  , additional CEO, Noida Authority. “The food vans are now being kept in an open ground in Sector 34. Their owners have been fined Rs 1.34 lakh. They will be charged an additional fine of Rs 30,000 for each van when they come to retrieve them from our custody. They will also have to submit a bond to us that they will never again operate the food van,” he said. “Noida does not allow food vans in the city,” he added. 
 
 K R Verma, nodal officer of the anti-encroachment cell, said the Authority was getting frequent complaints about food vans being operated in the city with the help of some employees. “Following the complaints, the additional CEO made a plan to rid the city of the vans. Three teams from the cell inspected areas including sectors 62, 63, 34, 52, 58, 24, 11, 12, 27, and 18 and took action,” Verma said. “These food vans are unauthorized and cause traffic congestion besides posing a health hazard to those who consume food from them,” he added.
 
 Since Noida Authority launched its drive across all categories of land use in residential, commercial, industrial and institutional areas, under the scanner are food vans, gen sets, vendor carts, water dispenser trolleys, makeshift food counters, etc. Even a four-wheeler or two-wheeler parked in public places or non-designated spaces will be seized and owners fined Rs 5,000 and Rs 2,000, respectively if found parked in public places or non-designated areas. Second time encroachment by the vehicles will invite fines of Rs 8,000 and Rs 4,000. Anyone aiding in encroachment of public land will be fined Rs 50,000 by the Noida Authority.
 
 
