Mysuru: In what can be perceived as a battle within a battle, the division within the JD(S) ranks in the Chamaraja constituency spilling over into the public domain on Sunday. Rebel JD(S) leader   on Sunday launched his campaign, following a meeting with Dalit leaders, which observers are reading as a move meant to offset the traction the JD(S) might gain owing to its alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).

 Gowda’s decision to leave the JD(S) was prompted by the party’s decision to hand the ticket for the segment to former vice-chancellor of University of Mysore (UoM) KS Rangappa, who is related to former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda.
 
 While Rangappa, whose candidature was announced by the JD(S) last week, has been meeting the party cadre and residents of the constituency, Gowda too has simultaneously holding meetings with his supporters to garner support.
 
 Gowda’s meeting with Dalit leaders comes against the backdrop of rumblings within the Congress ranks against fielding incumbent MLA for Chamaraja Vasu. When the party observers were in the city last month, a section of party workers had vociferously demanded the ticket for Mysore Urban Development Authority chairman D Dhruvakumar. Meanwhile, in the BJP, the Mysuru city party chief BH Manjunath and former Muda chief L Nagendra are vying for the party ticket from the constituency.
 
 Gowda, who claimed that he had been asked by the JD(S) to give up the ticket in 2013 to allow four-time MLA HS Shankarlinge Gowda, who had quit the BJP to join the party, is currently focusing on Vokkaliga-dominated pockets in the segment such as Hebbal, Kumbar Koppa, Manchengowda Koppal, KG Koppal. Gowda is now focusing on consolidating Dalit votes.
 
 Affirming his belief in the ideologies of the architect of Constitution, Gowda said, “I am happy to be getting support from Dalits and the downtrodden. I will contest the polls. I have been touring pockets with a sizeable Dalit population such as Kailaspuram, Bamboo Bazar and getting their feedback.”
 
 Basava Haralaiah Swami of Mahasharana Haralaiah Gurupeeta of Chitradurga cautioned voters against falling prey to money power during the elections. “Polls have become a business for politicians. They invest money before the polls, and later indulge in corrupt practices to get their money back. Vote without taking money,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, historian and activist PV   said that Gowda should have been given the ticket in 2013. “Although he was promised to be considered in 2018, the party leaders have dumped him. People with money power are trying to win the polls,” Urs said.
 
 Dalit leader Manju said that he would support Gowda, and hold meetings in all 22 wards that fell under the constituency.
 
 
