NEW DELHI: Over 35 lakh jobs were added in the formal economy in six months, according to the government's first-ever estimate of payroll count based on Employees' Provident Fund Organisation ( ) subscription and data from the   and the  .

 However, job creation slowed down in non-farm sectors during February as new member registrations with the EPFO declined to a four-month low of 4,72,075 during the month.
 
 As many as 6,04,557 such members were registered in January 2018 and 5,57,633 in December 2017, the latest data released by EPFO about all non-zero contributors or new members that are registered with the body every month showed.
 
 The number of all non-zero contributors registered with the EPFO was 6,47,019 in November, 3,93,904 in October and 4,35,283 in September last year.
 
 From the PFRDA, the New Pension Scheme (NPS) data indicates generation of 4.2 lakh new payroll during the given period, that too only from Tier-I account. The   currently manages the corpus of around 50 lakh employees in state and the central government. For this study the central and state autonomous bodies have been shown under central and state governments respectively, while non-government refers to the corporate sector employees, a government statement said.
 
 The EPFO said that these estimates may include temporary employees whose contributions may not be continuous for the entire year.
 
 The EPFO has recently launched an aggressive drive to increase its coverage.
 
 All establishments across the country with 20 or more employees whose basic wages are up to Rs 15,000 are required to be mandatory covered under the social security schemes run by the EPFO.
 
 The payroll count is essentially the difference between the number of workers who joined and exited from the EPFO's fold and as such is the net addition to jobs.
 
 “It has now been decided to publish the age-band wise estimate of all new subscribers as declared by their employers. This data can be helpful in policymaking, planning and research work as the planners may have an idea as to what is the estimate of employees in different age band,” said a statement by Union labour ministry.
 
 India has, for the first time, introduced monthly payroll reporting for the formal sector to facilitate analysis of new and continuing employment. 
 
 
