NEW DELHI: India might have begun their tour of South Africa on a losing note but there are few positives that have emerged from their performance in Cape Town.  , whose all-round performances were vital in securing India their maiden World Cup title in 1983, has picked   and   among future Test stars in the making.

 
 Pandya's brave 95-ball 93 in the first innings helped India recover from the depths of 92/7 in reply to South Africa's 286 in the first innings on Day 2. It was solely due to his effort that India limited the hosts' lead to 77 runs. 
 
 Amarnath was impressed with his approach and feels that his attacking instincts should be fully exploited by prompting him up the batting order and thus pushing the opposition on the backfoot.
 
 
 "Pandya should keep playing the way he did in the first innings [of 1st Test]," Amarnath wrote in his column for TOI. "He loves hitting the ball and that's the way to go. He also should bat higher as he can take the attack to the opposition. India need to show more guts against pace bowling and need someone at the top to come through."
 
 Bumrah, who made his Test debut in the series opener, impressed with his control and variations. The highlight of his bowling was the dismissal of   in the second innings with a rising delivery that left the South Africa captain dazzled. He returned match figures of 4/112.
 
 
 "Bumrah's inclusion in this format is a good sign for India," Amarnath, who scored 4378 runs in 69 Tests for India, wrote. "Now they have a lot of variation as far as bowling is concerned whenever the team plays overseas."
 
 Like several other former players, Amarnath has also pointed out that India's performance with the bat stood like a sore thumb. "…the batting again is an issue. Actually, it was amazing — I've never seen the ball beat the bat so often as when India were batting. In both innings! That shows it's not just about technique but you have to play aggressively as well," he observed.
 
 He did hope that India will perform better as the tour progresses as the absence of practice match means they did not get enough time to get used to the conditions. "Whenever you play overseas, the first Test is always very challenging. This is because after playing on slower, flatter, low bounce pitches at home suddenly you go abroad and you don't get much match practice before the big game. It does take some time to get used to the bounce and pace but we were beaten fair and square. I was expecting the bowlers to do well and always felt that it could be challenging for the batsmen to continue the form they show at home," he wrote.
 
 Amarnath reckoned India might go with the same playing XI that took field in Centurion but he wants Ajinky Rahane to be included. "I was a little surprised that a player of  's calibre was ignored. True, he is going through a lean patch but that happens to all good players. Some players like to play on a faster track; he's one of those who likes the ball to come on to the bat and struggles sometimes on slower wickets," he opined.
 
 He also praised the South Africa attack who he thinks has done its homework as was evident with the way they dealt with the Indian batsmen in the first Test. 
 
 "South Africa will feel they can carry on from where they left off although they have lost  . They, however, still have pace bowlers in reserve so that's not going to be much of an issue. The Proteas seem to have worked out a couple of things where India's batting is concerned," he wrote. "Firstly, they are not really bowling up to them that often and as a result India were not scoring much off the back foot. Secondly, the variation of Philander, and pace of Rabada and Morkel worked and they will probably go with the same pace attack, and maybe an allrounder in place of Steyn; someone like Morris who can contribute with the bat too."
 
 
