HYDERABAD: The air quality across pockets of Hyderabad suffered significantly between 2016 and 2017, with the standards slipping from ‘satisfactory’ to ‘moderate’ – to even ‘bad’ – in certain areas, over this period, shows data available with the   (TSPCB). Among the worst affected zones, the records show, are Paradise, Zoo Park, Abids and Charminar, with the monthly air quality index (AQI) around the Hyderabad zoo touching a high 203 (poor category) in February, last year.

 This decline in the air’s health is true of most locations. A quick scan of the data reveals that the number of months when each of these areas clocked ‘satisfactory’ AQI in 2016, was cut by half in 2017.
 
 Reasons: An ever-increasing vehicular population (growing at an average of 10-12 percent year on year) coupled with rapid urbanization, which has led to massive construction activity especially along the city’s western corridor and outskirts like   and Rajendranagar. Mechanized stone crushing activity along the   has also added to the pollution levels, say experts. “While traffic contributes about 50 per cent of the pollution, heavy construction work and industrial emissions are among other reasons,” reiterated P Veeranna, senior environment scientist, TSPCB.
 
  
 Not surprisingly then, areas like Shamirpet, Rajendranagar and   (MGBS) that clocked ‘satisfactory’ AQI throughout the 12 months of 2016, failed to keep up the record the following year. The KBR Park area alone managed to remain constant (at the satisfactory level) in 2017. While in Shamirpet the monthly average slipped to ‘moderate’ twice, the quality in and around MGBS – the city’s busiest bus station – hit ‘moderate’ levels during six months of the year.
 
 Madhapur, Chikkadpally, Sainikpuri and Buddha Purnima Project Authority ( ) which were among the second best locations in 2016, in terms of air quality, with only one or two months of ‘moderate’ air, saw this count go up to four-six months.
 
 “Construction activity and stone crushing around the city, add to the suspended particulate matter. It is also one of the major reasons for pollution in Delhi. Peripheral areas in city are urbanisation and suffering its consequences. Also breaking down of hillocks for granite and conversion into sand apart from decline of green cover are having their impact,” said environmentalist, Prof K Purushotham Reddy.
 
 
