CHANDIGARH:   Pradesh chief minister (CM) Jai Ram   on Wednesday sought a share in Chandigarh land and postings. 

 Thakur, who was interacting with mediapersons here after the inauguration of Himachal Sewa Sadan in Sector 25, said the hill state would demand its share in Chandigarh and that the stat’;s officers be posted in the city on deputation, like those of Punjab and Haryana .
 
 To back the demand, Thakur cited a September 2011 judgment of the   wherein it ordered allotment of 7.19% share to Himachal Pradesh in power generated at all Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) projects. The state had been demanding its share for many years in accordance with Punjab Re-Organisation Act. “Himachal Pradesh will fight legally to get its share in Chandigarh, be it land or the administration,” he said. “As far as officers are concerned, 60% on deputation in Chandigarh are from Punjab and 40% from Haryana. We want Himachal officials to be posted here as per our share.”
 
 Thakur said the Supreme Court had granted relief to Himachal Pradesh by allowing the share in BBMB projects to it. 
 
 Himachal Pradesh had approached Supreme Court in 1998 to get its share in power projects under BBMB. 
 
 The CM said they would look for a peaceful way to have a share of Chandigarh. “There is no need to launch any agitation or confrontation with chief ministers of Punjab and Haryana. We will fight legally to get our share in power and water. I will meet Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh also,” he said.
 
 Thakur also blamed his predecessors for not taking up this matter seriously and said he would take the matter to a logical end. “We are yet to get our right,” he said.
 
 COURT DECISION
 
 Himachal Pradesh had approached the Supreme Court in 1998 to get its share in power projects under BBMB on the basis of Punjab State Reorganisation Act, 1966. On September 27, 2011, the Supreme Court had granted relief to the state by allowing the share. After the decision, the state had calculated Rs 4,200 crore arrears as per 7.19 % share which were to be paid by Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. To date, various governments had been requesting the Centre to settle the issue by asking these states to clear their dues.
 
 
