NEW DELHI: After being forcibly brought to Delhi six years ago from her village in  , a 22-year-old girl will finally be able to see her family after she was rescued by Delhi Police. The girl had been sold to a placement agency, who forced her to do domestic chores in houses, and had even held her father captive for a brief period of time.

 DCP (southeast)   said the girl’s statements have been recorded in front of the magistrate under section 164 of the CrPC and further investigation is on. The police department had put an Rs 50,000 reward for the safe recovery of the girl and had even formed a special investigation team to find her in 2015.
 
 Investigating officers said that the case came on the police radar in 2014, when the girl’s mother approached an   in Assam and told them that her daughter was kidnapped in 2012 and taken to Delhi. She further told cops that her husband was detained by the same men in their office when he went looking for her.
 
 Thereafter, a team raided the office located in Taimur Nagar and arrested one of the accused, identified as Jacob Deep. His other associate, Deepak, who had originally taken the girl from her village, is still missing. However, the cops did not find any clue of the girl then.
 
 The investigation was started afresh and it was found that she is currently living in northwest Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh and was working as a  . She was rescued from her house, following which her family members were informed.
 
 Narrating her ordeal, the girl told cops that Deepak took her to Delhi in 2012 on pretext of a vacation. Instead, he sold her to his friend Jacob’s placement agency. The two men took the girl to Ludhiana where she was made to work for a year and Deepak took her salary.
 
 In 2013, she got a brief chance to meet her father who came to the placement agency searching for her. The father-daughter duo requested the accused to allow them to go back to their village. The girl was told that had to work in a house South Extension area for 20 days, after which she would be freed. However, the kidnappers held her father captive in their office.
 
 During this time, her mother, with the help of the NGO, got a raid conducted and managed to rescue her husband, but found out that their daughter had run away from the house. The girl told cops that after running away from there, she worked in several houses across Delhi and had settled in Shalimar Bagh for the past two years.
 
 
