DABOLIM: Despite the KTC and tourism department providing sufficient buses to ferry tourists to and from the  , the   taxi strike on Friday, which comes during peak tourism season, left a number of tourists inconvenienced. Information about the large number of buses arranged by the state government did not percolate down to the tourists. 

 Fearing they would miss their flights and fed with the rumours circulating, a number of tourists camped outside the airport up to 12 hours prior to their departures, exhausted and disgusted. Many were under the impression that there was only one direct KTC bus from Calangute to the airport and decided to play it safe. Their hotels knew no better. 
 
 Dr   from Bhopal spent the last two days preparing to combat the strike. She booked the direct KTC bus from Calangute to the airport online and spent half a day at the airport, determined not to miss her flight. 
 
 Her friend Dr Harshita Jain from Jabalpur was terribly disappointed at having to cancel her scuba diving plans during her two-day trip. 
 
 “It turned out to be a stressful holiday,” she said. 
 
 The government went all out to ensure tourists were not stranded, with tourism department officials assisting KTC and road transport officials stationed at the airport since early morning, helping tourists board the direct shuttle buses arranged to Calangute, Panaji, Margao and Mapusa. A platoon of the Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) was also stationed along with Goa police to make sure the strike passed peaceful. 
 
 But such was the fear created in the minds of visitors in the run up to the strike that Australian tourist Shelly Primus did a trial run on Thursday, from her hotel to the local bus stand in Candolim right up to the Calangute bus stand from where the shuttle was to depart. On Friday, Primus walked a considerable distance from her hotel, lugging her baggage and travelled standing in an overcrowded local bus to reach the Calangute bus stand. 
 
 “This was my first visit to Goa and if this continues it will be the last,” she told TOI at the Dabolim airport, four hours before her flight for  . 
 
 The strike threw things out of gear for   and her husband from Gujarat, who were on their honeymoon in the state. “Our entire day was ruined,” she said, making herself comfortable on her luggage outside the airport, with five hours to go for her flight.
 
 Tourists landing at the airport were also offered a Rs 900 ferry ride, courtesy Drishti, to Verem, inclusive of a drop to their hotels in North Goa.
 
 
