NEW DELHI:   on Thursday upheld a trial court order restraining Delhi   from granting out-of-turn permanent memberships to children of existing members.

 Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva found “no infirmity” in the trial court’s November 30, 2016 interim order that granting membership to the green card holders (GCH), children of members, violated the club’s Articles of Association.
 
 “Admittedly, the Articles do not create a separate class of members or accord priority to any special class of individuals in getting membership, the same has been done only through various meetings,” the court observed, while hearing the appeal by the club. In its plea, DGC had challenged the interim order passed on the suit filed by some members who alleged that out-of-turn memberships were being granted to GCHs.
 
 The high court, while disposing of the plea filed by the club, also asked the lower court to expedite the trial of the suit and try to dispose it of within nine months from today. The court, however, said that till the suit is disposed of, the club shall not consider the applications of general applicants in the non-governmental (NG) category for grant of permanent membership in excess of 25% of the total permanent membership.
 
 HC fixed the 25% ceiling after DGC claimed that it grants 25% of   to children of members seeking permanent membership and 25% to other applicants under this category.
 
 The court also made it clear that permanent membership already granted to any GCH after filing of the suit would be subject to the final decision of the trial court.
 
 According to the AOA, 50% of the total membership of 5,600 has to be issued to government employees while the remaining has to be given to persons who are not in government service, referred to as the ‘non-governmental category’.
 
 Some club members had moved a suit in the trial court alleging that children of existing members were being given priority for according permanent membership over the pending applications in NG category. The members claimed that the club was “granting permanent membership in NG category to GCHs out of turn on a priority basis and not on the basis of the date of application in NG category on par with general applicants in NG category”.
 
 
