KOCHI: June 11, 2017 completely changed the life of  , a Burmese woman in her early thirties who is now trying hard to secure a job and look after her family. It was also the day MV Amber L rammed a fishing boat,  , off Kerala coast and killed two fishermen. Her husband  , a seaman aboard vessel Amber L, last sent her money nine months ago as he is stuck in Kochi. The family has used up his savings and Sin is struggling to provide for their son Min Hein Khant.

 Zewana is one among the three foreign nationals whose life has been restricted to a hotel room in Willingdon Island. Now, they accept that they took a wrong decision on that fateful night. The crew will remain in Kochi though the shipping company paid Rs 1 crore and the ship was released. A mercantile marine department (MMD) official said that Amber L had paid Rs 1 crore upfront to the owner of the boat and paid Rs 15 lakh each to all those who were injured.
 “When we saw the boat, it was too late to avoid collision. I know lives were lost. I wish I could go back and save them. Maybe we could’ve rescued them; we made a wrong judgment. People think that we are staying in a hotel hence we will be free. But I need a job, I need to support my family. We are out on bail and proceedings are moving at a snail’s pace. I need to go home a free man even if a jail term is on the cards,” said second officer Galanos Athanasios.
 
 The second officer, in his early thirties, is from Athens. “In January, my sister’s wedding was cancelled due to my prolonged stay here. Now, they changed the date to December, hoping that I will be home then,” he said.
 
 The ashtray in the captain’s room is half-filled by morning as Georgiannakis Ioannis claims that minus his job, he just has this one hobby. “I just eat, shit and drink. I took up smoking to kill time. I would’ve gone crazy if not for the internet as I could see my family using video calling,” said the man from Crete who is in his late sixties. Though Greek consulate is involved in this case, Myanmar is least bothered about Zewana’s fate. “Everyone knows what is happening in my country. I don’t think authorities there know I’m stuck here. Every day I lie to my son that I’ll come home the next day,” he said.
 
 Experts said many lawyers here are aware that shipping companies lose money if a ship remains idle and some had even gone to Assam to get the signature of the family of the deceased to file a claim of over Rs 200 crore. “If there was an out-of-court settlement, fisherfolk would have got Rs 3-4 crore as compensation. If legal proceedings result in a favourable verdict for fishermen, their kin will get a comparatively lower sum,” said the source.
 
 With a criminal negligence case pending here, the foreign nationals are likely to remain here for a long period. The company stopped their salaries as soon as they were taken off the ship’s roster. They are paying only hotel expenses.
 
 
 
