GANDHINAGAR: After more than a decade’s talks and discussions, finally, the state government is taking concrete steps to realize the new   international airport project, which will be named the  . The state government is in the final stages of signing a joint venture agreement with the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to develop the new airport situated about 80km from Ahmedabad. The agreement is expected to be signed in June 2018, work expected to begin by 2019, and the new airport expected to become operational by 2022, said sources close to the development.

 With Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International Airport expected to cross its maximum capacity of 18 million passengers a year by 2025-26, and with almost no option of expanding the existing airport, development of the new airport at Dholera has become a strategic necessity. A new SPV (special purpose vehicle) is expected to be formed shortly. 
 
 Manoj Gangal, director of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport, said that another airport for Ahmedabad is required sooner or later considering the rapid growth in passengers. “We have reported highest growth in domestic passengers in the country and we are at second position in the country, after Kolkata, in terms of growth of international passengers. Passenger footfall is doubled every three years,” Gangal said.
 
 J N Singh, chief secretary,   government, who met AAI chairman Guruprasad Mohapatra and other key officers of the AAI and the Union government for the project said, “the state government and AAI has agreed to jointly take up the New Ahmedabad Airport project at Dholera. We are finalizing the modalities of the joint venture.”
 
 Sources close to the development said the state government expects to begin work of the New Ahmedabad Airport along with 5,000 MW solar park to provide a major boost to the Dholera SIR. The first phase cost of the Dholera airport is estimated to be Rs 1,600 crore while total cost of the project may reach Rs 2,100 crore.
 
 Singh added, “The Gujarat government is going ahead with development the   as well as New Ahmedabad Airport at Dholera, as in next few years there will be a major demand. Rajkot will cater to   region while the airport at Dholera will cater to Ahmedabad, north Gujarat and central Gujarat.”
 
 Singh said further, “The state government has already obtained necessary clearances for the Dholera airport so we expect to start its development along with the massive ongoing development in the Dholera SIR.”
 
 Though the state government has also proposed development of a new Rajkot airport it may be of medium size and cater chiefly to domestic passengers, said sources.
 
 
