

  Terrified? Why? This is an unflinching film. Let me put it this way, like all our earlier films, we have never held back, either you say something or you don’t say something, but there is no holding back. That’s what it is with this film as well.
 
  
  Team Aiyaary – actors  ,   and   and director   – outside the Delhi Times office
 
 
 
 
 Do you think there is corruption in the country?
 
 
 
  So, what we did was we have put a disclaimer saying that this is a work of fiction. The point is that it is about four-five different incidents that happened over a certain period of time, but because we have to complete a film in two-and-a-half hours, we have compressed them. It does speak about a lot of things, not just corruption. Corruption is a very broad term, but it speaks about something very interesting, like how a small, seemingly innocuous, incident can snowball into something that changes the face of geopolitics in our country. That, for me, was the story waiting to be told.
 
 
 
 Neeraj: So kind of them.
 
  
  Team Aiyaary – Sidharth Malhotra, Manoj Bajpayee, Rakul Preet Singh and Neeraj Pandey – has some fun at the Delhi Times office
 
 
 
 Not changes, we had an option to either change the dialogues or go mute, and that happened in my first film as well. In A Wednesday, there are two mutes. I am very happy with muting than changing or chopping, because the audience, I feel, will put two and two together. So, you will notice that a man was wanting to say ‘Kargil’, but it’s not being said. The most important thing for me was that the film is not just about a scam or corruption, it was about the point of view of the youth. The youth of today has always been told that you guys don’t understand, you guys are not getting the point, and they are told this by the generation preceding them, so the film is about a young officer, questioning the earlier generation, that ‘look, you handed it down to us, this is what we have got in our legacy, so you can’t just get away by condemning this, you better try and fix this, or tell us how to fix this’. So that for me, was a broader arc of the film and essentially, the DNA of the story.
 
 
 
 
 They belong to different times and the definition of morality, patriotism and honesty is perceived very differently by the current generation. As Neeraj was explaining, the current generation is finding itself helpless, so it is acting on the basis of what they are provided. The older generation is asking them to adjust with things and move with intent, and the younger generation is finding it difficult to have any kind of great intent when the platform is so dirty, so there is a clash between perceptions. There is a clash between the generations which Sidharth’s character belongs to and my character belongs to.
 
  
  Team Aiyaary at the Delhi Times office
 
 
 
 
  It is not just patriotism, but other aspects also within the system, be it nationalism or the take on how the functioning is right now. It happens in every field. Every 10 years, even within families, there will be different ideologies. Interestingly, this film has a take on the military intelligence aspect. Like I say in the trailer, that in surveillance, listening is a fine art. If you are listening to all the conversations in the country, you have so much information on what is happening, that you can decipher and pinpoint what the problems are, and one generation could have an okay attitude about it, but the other generation might feel that this is wrong and we must do something about it, so that is what is shown in the film.
 
 
 
 
  You will tell us after watching the film.
 
 
 
 
  The ones who have seen the film have loved it.
 
  
  
 
 
 
  I think a man doesn’t wear the uniform, the uniform wears the man, and I experienced that. We have grown up seeing them, we have heard stories about them, they are real-life heroes, they are doing a dangerous job for our protection, so you feel a certain responsibility to portray them correctly. Luckily, we have the badges and stuff right. Neeraj sir was very particular about giving authenticity to everything – hierarchy, badges, how military intelligence officers would function – so we have tried to keep it authentic.
 
  I have a different take on this. Profession doesn’t determine character. We are playing two different characters wearing the same uniform, so at the end of the day, the human being who is wearing the uniform is very important – his conflict, his upbringing, his education, his atmosphere and how he is placed in the script, and what his relationship with other characters is, these are important things that one focuses on. Yes, he happens to be from the military, and there are certain impacts that definitely reflect in personality due to discipline and training, but at the end of the day, a person is a product of his own atmosphere, education and upbringing. So I personally look into all those things – what made this man, that is very important.
 
  
  
 
 
 I have got more friends in the armed forces than in the film industry right now! I look up to them and there is a lot of respect for the kind of work that they do, I get a lot of trust from them, it’s mutual respect and regard, and they do not feel shy of sharing things. And if I have a situation where I’m writing, I can pick up the phone and talk to them and they will guide me. I think we have earned that convenience and trust with them.
 
 
 
 
  Of course. They are extra excited, firstly because they understand the language, and secondly, because it deals with the Army. In fact, my dad was really happy seeing both of them in the uniform and I remember, when the trailer came out, he asked me to tell Sid, ‘Please tell him that he has carried the uniform really well,’ because he feels very proud when someone does justice to the uniform. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  Why would I be disappointed? Maybe I’ll wear a uniform in some other movie. I am happy with what I have in this film.
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
