KOCHI: Disputes related to land ownership and property between family members and neighbours as well as domestic violence and harassment cases were the predominant issues which were reported at the first day of the mega 'adalat' conducted by the Kerala State Women's Commission ( ) at the YMCA International House on Monday. 

 The commission received around 104 petitions of which, 32 were settled. As many as 16 complaints were referred to police, six were referred to the   and four for counselling.
 
 A 40-year-old unmarried woman, a Kochi native, approached the commission with a complaint that her brothers have been denying her a share of her family property. According to the petition, the women's father had made a will before his death in which she was also mentioned.
 
 However, it has been alleged that when she demanded her share of the property, her brothers contested the claim stating that the will was not registered. In her complaint she also stated that her family members have been harassing her. Commission chairperson M C   expressed deep concern over the increasing number of such property dispute cases.
 
 "The status of family as a social institution has been deteriorating in Kerala. Even relations between the members of the society has been turning sour. So, societal intervention is needed to re-establish harmony. Recently, three members of a family from Mukkannoor were hacked to death by their relative over property dispute. Most of the cases which have been brought before us have shocked us as family members themselves were involved in such heinous crimes. As responsible citizens and human beings we should strive to find an amicable solution," said Josephine. Action will be taken against those who portray women in bad light as well as those who carry out online attacks against women in social media, she said.
 
 The 'adalat' also dealt with domestic violence and harassment cases. A pregnant woman in her thirties approached the commission with a complaint stating that her husband has been physically and mentally abusing her. The woman told the commission that it was concerns about her child's future that forced her to stay with him so long with the hope of giving the marriage a second chance. But her husband refused to stop his abusive behaviour and she was forced to finally leave her husband's home.
 
 Josephine said ever since some changes were incorporated into Section 498 A of the IPC, following complaints that women were misusing it, the number of domestic violence cases has also increased.
 
 A degree student hailing from   submitted a complaint to the commission that her neighbours beat her up when she questioned her neighbour over building a fence in the land owned by her family. The commission issued a directive to the police to look into the case.
 
 
