INDORE: Indore cell of state cyber police have arrested a Tanzanian woman and her accomplice from Delhi for extorting Rs 4 lakh from an Indore businessman by threatening to upload his objectionable video that she had taken by making him consume a drink laced with drugs. 

 A 45-year-old office furniture businessman of Tukoganj area had filed a complaint stating that he had been duped of Rs 4 lakh by a foreigner who had extorted money from him by threatening him. 
 
 The accused Shyamshu Shabani, 38, who is a resident of   in East Africa’s  , had come in contact with the complainant on Facebook messenger in December last year. She sent him a request from a fake account by name Glory Shabani. 
 
 The victim divulged details about his business and shared his WhatsApp number, while informing about his frequent visits to Delhi for work. On one such visits, on January 18, woman invited him at her flat in   area. 
 
 He was offered a drink and he fell unconscious for two hours. He left when woke up.
 
 After a while, the woman asked for financial help of Rs 6,000 as she wanted to go to Tanzania. The complainant transferred the amount to an account of an online financial services company. He extended further assistance of Rs 2-3,000. 
 
 “After a few days, the woman demanded Rs 1 lakh from him and when he refused to give the money, she told him about the video. She said that when he had fallen unconscious at her flat in Delhi, she made an obscene video of him. She also threatened to upload it on social media if he did not give her money,” said cyber cell SP Jitendra Singh. 
 
 The woman used various means to extort money from the accused and when she was not able to do so she told him that she was pregnant and needed money for treatment. 
 
 “The complainant paid Rs 20,000 to her. After a few days he received a call from a woman who claimed to be sister of the accused and told him that she would require Rs 80,000 for the treatment of the woman,” SP Singh added. 
 
 The gang members made the complainant speak to a man who posed as a doctor. The accused then told the man that the woman had died and they needed to take her body to Tanzania and needed money for it. 
 
 “After he had lost Rs 4 lakh, the complainant approached us and provided the two bank account numbers and details of the account with online financial banking services company, in which he had transferred money,” said Singh adding that based on the information, the woman was traced and arrested.
 
 Another accused identified as Sumit Kumar, son of  , 23, resident of   in Rajpur of Delhi was also arrested and booked under IPC. 
 
 
