Trichy: The beginning of 2018 will mark the end of the two-decade confinement of the 88 girls at the unauthorised Mose Ministries children home at Subramaniapuram in Trichy. The district administration and district social welfare department has identified a   for the girls, in compliance with the order passed by the Madurai bench of the Madras high court.

 “The department of social welfare has fixed a new home in the city to accommodate the girls. The process will take place in a week,” said a source requesting anonymity.
 
 A special original petition filed by the 82 inmates of the Mose Ministries seeking freedom citing their turning major led to the order that was passed by justices TS Sivagnanam and P Velmurugan on December 11, 2017. Seven girls were minors when the petition was filed. 
 
 Now, they have turned major, taking the total number of major girls to 89. But one of them got married in January 2017. So, the home was occupied by only 88 girls.
 
 “The respondents (department of social welfare and five others) were directed to shift the petitioners (the girls) safely with adequate protection, from the Mose Ministries to some other home recognised by the government or to a suitable place which has adequate infrastructure / facilities and give periodical counselling for one month to the petitioners with the assistance of competent persons/counsellors/experts. Further, explain their rights and liberty, entitled to them under Section 47 of the Juvenile Justice Act,” the order reads.
 
 The court also directed the District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO), Trichy to file an interim report to the court on February 05, 2018 – after one month of their stay in the new home. Based on the report, the court may decide whether to allow the girls to lead a normal life in the society. A highly placed source said that the process of searching for a suitable home commenced as soon as the court order was out a couple of weeks ago.
 
 The court observed that the demand of the 88 girls to be freed from the Mose Ministries home was a valid one. The home was being controlled by DSWO for more than a year, following the court order to evict the administration led by Pastor Gideon Jacob from the home for violating the norms by keeping the girls in the unauthorised home for nearly two decades. 
 
 It may be recalled that Gideon Jacob was arrested by CBI on October 28, 2017 after he absconded to Germany for a year, as a criminal case was registered against him. 
 
 
