 is no alien to Delhi, having spent several years in the capital during his childhood and college. He says, “It’s always wonderful to come to Delhi although I prefer to be here in the winter definitely. It’s always great since I have many friends here.” 
The conversation centres itself on Delhi. “It is like a second home to me,” says Arjun, adding “My grandparents were here. I spent a lot of my childhood here. I used to come often here for my winter vacations, not the summer vacations. So, I have lots of fond memories from the city from my childhood.” Of course, Arjun also knows Delhi by virtue of spending three years at   College. However, his time at the college preceded one of the college’s quirkiest traditions – the Virgin Tree puja on Valentine’s Day. When we ask him about it, he seems clueless. “That must be something new. This is actually the first time I’m hearing about it,” says the actor. Although he does have an explanation as to why he might have missed the excitement around it if it did happen during his days at Hindu. “Most probably, I was out on a date on Valentine’s Day instead of staying in college for a puja,” he quips. And speaking of dates, what of director Anurag Kashyap’s allegation that a   girl had once ditched him for Arjun? “Anurag was very deluded as a child. I don’t think that girl knew he existed,” the actor laughs. 
 
  
  
 His days at Hindu College gave Arjun some of the fondest memories he has. He says, “I had such a great experience at Hindu. I still have friends from there. I was with Imtiaz (Ali) recently and it’s always great to catch up with them again. I would love to relive all of that all over again if I had the chance, and only in that college. I remember going to Ridge Road and eating bun omelette and then going back and studying for the exams the next day. I remember the cold hitting us on the bike. I remember chipping in for rickshaw fare to come all the way in to the main city just to watch a movie at Priya or Chanakya.”
 
  We met Arjun at the launch of a mind sports league, where he is an investor and brand ambassador. He has seen Delhi’s partying scene – both as a student trying to get inside a venue, and later as a venue owner. But he despises Delhi’s jugaad and intimidation culture at parties. He says, “The one word you hear at lines outside any party venue in Delhi is ‘you don’t know who I am’. At most parties, you will find some guy with a political connect or some big name he is flaunting trying to muscle in. But that’s not what I call partying and entertainment. Partying happens when you take a break and go out to enjoy yourself. It should not involve these ego clashes.”
 
  
  Arjun Rampal
 
 Arjun shot in Jharkhand for a few months for an upcoming film, including in several smaller towns in the state. It was his first experience of shooting in Jharkhand and the actor has only nice things to say about the new industry trend of taking film shoots to smaller towns and new locales in the hinterland. Talking about the reasons behind, he tells us, “Firstly, the infrastructure has definitely improved. Then, the kind of benefits the state gives to film people to come and shoot there has gone up. Why did people go to   or Mauritius to shoot? Because there was certain subsidy the filmmaker got. The reason they did that was to promote their own places. Switzerland’s tourism went up by leaps and bounds after Yash ji ( ) shot all his films there. So, when you have to promote your own places within the country, it’s a good way of doing that. And there are such beautiful areas in India which are totally unexplored. The government is encouraging that now and it shows.”
 
 The actor also credits this trend to a rise in more realistic stories in cinema. He elaborates, “What has happened is that we are making films that are more realistic, more relatable, and based in our country. We don’t have a dream sequence where suddenly you are in a beautiful foreign location, even though the characters are living in a basti. It doesn’t happen anymore because the audiences and their sensibilities have changed. And also, there are new filmmakers who keep it real in their stories now, who don’t like to shoot on a set.”
 
 
