VIJAYAWADA: State   from the Congress, TDP and YSR Congress intensified their   on Friday seeking special category status for Andhra Pradesh. 

 Former Union ministers P Ashok Gajapathi Raju and YS Chowdary, who resigned on Thursday, took part in the TDP protest. The TDP MPs continued to protest inside and outside Parliament. YSR Congress MPs protested at the main entrance of   house. The Congress member, KVP Ramachandra Rao, too continued his agitation.
 
 TDP president and chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu held a teleconference with party MPs and took their feedback on quitting the Union Cabinet. Naidu also directed the MPs to   the agitation and also to mobilise support from other regional and national parties.
 
 The chief minister has directed his MPs to visit their constituencies in the next two days and tell people how the BJP had betrayed the state. He had also directed them to create awareness among people on the factors that led to the party’s exit from the Central government.
 
 The TDP is getting ready to launch an intensive campaign across the 13 districts giving its reasons for quitting the Cabinet.
 
 On its part, the YSR Congress has decided to introduce a no-confidence motion against the NDA government in Parliament on March 21. 
 
 Chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu called up Gajapathi Raju and Chowdary on Friday, and asked them for a feedback from other parties and leaders on his decision to quit the Union cabinet. As president Ram Nath Kovind accepted the two resignations, the CM advised the two MPs to get feedback from other parties. 
 
 He also directed them to mobilise support for the state, and see if the support could be used at an appropriate time to mount pressure on the BJP leadership.
 
 Naidu told the two former ministers that they will have to explain in detail the list of promises that were made to the state and how the BJP betrayed the people. He also asked them to explain TDP’s efforts in the past four years to convince the BJP leadership on fulfilling all the bifurcation promises. While the MPs will continue their fight both inside Parliament and outside, Naidu asked the two MPs to garner support from other parties.
 
 
