PANCHKULA: After failing to receive any apology and response from the Haryana government and the   administration, the family members of Ruchika, along with other activists, staged a silent protest outside mini secretariat in Sector 1 against inviting former Haryana director general of police (DGP) SPS Rathore on the main dias as one of the guests during a Republic Day celebration in Panchkula. 

 Rathore also shared the front row during the function. This also got sharp response from the family of Anand Parkash, along with the city activists. 
 
 Anand Prakash fought nearly two decades to get justice for Ruchika after her death in 1993.
 
 A total of 15 protestors staged protest against the administration and the government for not taking any action in the case on Thursday.
 
 Parkash's daughter  , who was Ruchika's childhood friend, along with her mother and other civil activists, came to the protest at mini-secretariat. All left the place when the city magistrate   and sub-division magistrate   came and met them and assured that an apology would be sent through the media via press releases.
 
 The fact of the matter is that Rathore was convicted in 2009 of molesting a 14-year-old girl, Ruchika Girhotra, and was given a six month sentence by a trial court in Chandigarh. Three years after the molestation, Ruchika committed suicide. Rathore's sentence was later enhanced to 18 months in May 2010.
 
 The officers also told the family members that they have sent their memorandum to the government.
 
 "We will wait for a couple of days and if administration fails to apologize on the matter, we will go on an indefinite strike against the administration and the government," said Aradhana.
 
 Aradhana added that on February 9, they submitted a memorandum to the DC on behalf of  , which was recently formed by Anand's family members and activists in his memory.
 
 "We have written a letter to the government, requesting to not accpet/repeat such an invitation in the future," said city magistrate Sharma.
 
 
