KOCHI: Marking a new era in cancer treatment facilities in the state, chief minister   will lay the foundation stone for the Rs 380 crore   (CCRC) on May 20. The   will be helpful for thousands of patients from central  . As of now patients from these regions have to either travel to the Regional Cancer Centre ( ) in Thiruvananthapuram or Malabar Cancer Centre ( ) in   which are experiencing high patient-wait time.

 The ground clearing works are fast progressing at the site in the medical college premises in Kalamassery. Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board ( ) has already sanctioned Rs 380 crore required for the construction of the CCRC. “The tendering process for the construction of CCRC block is fast progressing. Chief minister will be laying the foundation stone of the CCRC structure on May 20,” an official associated with the project said.
 
 The tender process for construction of the skeletal structure (warm cell in technical parlance) will be completed first. The scheduled cost of the skeletal structure is Rs 96 crore. “The tenders for remaining works like mechanical, engineering and plumbing works will be floated in the next few months,” sources said. As per the schedule, the construction should be completed in 600 days.
 
 The CCRC will have one more storey thanks to the error in the measurement conducted by PWD. When measurements were taken as part of ground clearing works, it came to the notice that the slope of the landscape is five metres more than the measurement given by the PWD.
 
 “So, we had to include one more storey and it can be used for parking purposes,” sources said. The original plan was for a five-storeyed structure. Now, there will be six storeys with a built-up area more than five lakh sq ft. Departments like paediatric oncology, community oncology, telemedicine, yoga and integrated medicine, cancer registry, MRD and data centre, bulk drug and general store, guest rooms and mortuary would be house in the structure.
 
 The CCRC authorities are preparing a list of faculty, staff and other employees required when the services of the hospital become full-fledged after completion of the construction. “We will complete the preparation of the list within three months. Now, we are preparing another list for procuring faculty and staff for starting surgery,” an official with CCRC said.
 
 The process of floating tenders for the super specialty block of the medical college also is progressing. “We expect to invite the tenders by May 20. The first tender will be for the construction of the structure (warm cell) at a cost of around Rs 120 crore. The tenders for the remaining works will be floated after this. The KIIFB has already cleared Rs 200 crore for the construction of super specialty block of the medical college. KIIFB will be releasing funds for works like construction of PG hostel, staff hostel, auditorium, indoor stadium etc in a phased manner, sources said.
 
