GURUGRAM: PWD minister Rao Narbir Singh on Sunday announced that work on the stalled Greater Southern Peripheral Road (G-SPR) project, to connect Delhi-Gurugram border to IMT Manesar, should gain pace, now that   and Haryana high court has vacated a stay order on land acquisition that it had imposed in 2016. 

 Huda had started acquisition for the 40km-long GSPR in 2016, but faced a challenge from a land owner. Some villagers had filed a case before the high court, challenging the acquisition in Naurangpur village and nearby areas, and got a stay from court. 
 
 With the stay now vacated, the state will have to issue a fresh notification for acquisition, but Huda is raring to start the process.
 
 “The high court has vacated the stay over acquisition by dismissing the case filed by land owners, paving the way for construction of G-SPR as per the Master Plan,” said the PWD minister, adding that once complete, this road would offer an alternative route between Delhi-Gurugram border and IMT Manesar, which are connected only through Delhi-Gurugram expressway (NH-8) at present, and thus reduce congestion on the NH-8.
 
 The minister added the road will branch out from NH-8 at IMT Manesar, pass through   as it proceeds towards Gurugram-Faridabad road, cross MG Road and again merge with NH-8 near Sirhaul on the Delhi-Gurugram border from behind Ambience mall. The road is supposed to be constructed as per Gurugram-Manesar Plan 2031. 
 
 “This road will be more like an ‘outer ring road’ for the city,” he said, adding they are trying to convince NHAI to build it, for which, he has already met   minister Nitin Gadkari. The road is expected to benefit villages along the road, while also reducing congestion on NH-8, and thereby pollution in the city.
 
 As per sources, NHAI is not keen on building the road, due to high cost of land acquisition. “The initial survey had indicated the project was not viable due to high cost of land acquisition. That’s why a fresh feasibility study is now being carried out, in view of Haryana’s new policy, announced in late 2017, of transit oriented development (TOD), under which land along the road will get additional FAR,” said the source.
 
 Around 395 acres has to be acquired in eight villages for G-SPR. They are — Aklimpur (5.95 acre), Tekliki (62.95 acre), Sakatpur (68.90 acre), Sikohour (15.92 acre), Naurangpur (49.40 acre), Bar Gujjar (99.13 acre),   (59.92 acre) and Manesar (33.15 acre). The road will be 90m-wide with a 30m-green belt on either side. The land will be acquired by Huda and handed over to the developer — which could be NHAI — for construction.
 
 
 
