AMRITSAR: Life seems to be looking up for the residents of  , a Dalit-majority   in Amritsar where Union minister of state for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri paid a visit on Thursday and stayed for the night at a Dalit family’s house.

 With Puri having left the village at 5.15am, after promising better facilities to villagers here, there was a buzz on Friday that development might finally reach this hamlet about 12km from the holy city.
 
 A retired diplomat, Puri visited the village on directions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as part of instilling the Dalit commuinty’s faith in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).
 
 He heard the grievances of locals and assured to provide them by through recommending the same to the state government or directly from the Centre. Puri was accompanied by BJP leaders, including Amritsar district unit chief Rajesh Honey, Rajindermohan Singh Chhina and others. They had reached Mudhal around 7.30pm on Thursday and paid obeisance at the local gurdwara.He later had dinner at the house of Balwinder Singh, a Dalit, and then went to the house of Niranjan Singh, where he slept on an iron cot on the roof. “It was a surprise sleepover I was among others to greet Puri to our village, but he said he wanted to sleep in my house,” Niranjan told TOI on Friday, adding that he hurriedly put a bed on the roof and two fans.
 
 Singh, who owns a small grocery shop, said Puri slept around 10.30pm and used the rooftop toilet before leaving at 5.15 am on Friday. “We are all hopeful that he will bring a change to our village. He personally took interest in its development,” he said.
 
 Puri showed concern over poor sanitation, lighting and sewerage, and promised to provide these basic conveniences at the earliest.
 
 Sources said the work on streetlights and sewerage could begin soon as Puri was likely to visit Mudhal again on May 3. Niranjan said Puri had said he would take up the issue of development with the state government. “If there is any problem, he will take direct help from the Centre,” he added.
 
 In a brief interaction with media, Puri said he was on the visit of Mudhal on the PM’s directions. “I will visit the village again after submitting a report to the PMO. There is no political motive behind this visit,” he added.
 
