DHARAMSHALA: On the concluding day of the winter session of the 13th assembly of  , treasury and opposition benches sparred over Himachal “finally getting a young CM”. It became a topic of debate during the motion of thanks on governor’s address.

 The day started with tributes being paid to Vivekananda’s on his birthday. After some BJP members said that   was a young CM,   from   pointed out that except   most of the members of the house were from the post-Independence era.
 
 “The age of CM Thakur according to records is 53. Virbhadra Singh became CM in 1983 at the age of 49. But now present CM is being projected as one of the youngest CM of state,” he said asking members of BJP to issue statements only after checking the history.
 
 Ramlal raised the issue of statehood against BJP, he said a few leaders had opposed this when Himachal was being given the status of a state.
 
 Replying to Ramlal, BJP minister   said that they had only seen “older CMs”. “You might have seen them when they were young, we haven’t,” he added.
 
 He said that since Independence, Himachal had got only 12 national highways. “It is the Modi government which has given 63 highways to this state. He accused the   for working with vindictive politics stating that he himself was facing various cases.
 
 Congress MLA Asha Kumari talked about the seniority of Congress legislators. “Yashwant Singh Parmar became first CM of state in the age of 45, then Ramlal Thakur in 48, Virbhadra Singh in 49 and then BJP CM P K Dhumal at the age of 53,” she said.
 
 BJP MLAs accused the Congress for of misusing funds during their regime and taking extra loans which increased financial burden on state. In response, Congress MLAs asked the government to bring factual records about contribution of the Center to help bailout the state from financial crisis.
 
 Earlier, BJP legislator Ramesh Dhawala blamed the congress for opening various schools during their regime without considering the factual situation and proposed to merge them by engaging a special vehicle for students to one school.
 
 “There are 12 institutions in my area where strength is not much but teachers are being paid for their services,” he said.
 
 Total 20 members of the house participated in the discussion on the motion of thanks and hey spoke for 333 minutes in total.
 
 
