GHAZIABAD:A 46-year-old guard with a private security agency was brutally thrashed by revellers when he objected to their playing loud music late into the night in a housing society in  . The seriously injured guard, Vinod Kumar, has been admitted to the ICU of GTB hospital in Delhi where his condition is stated to be serious. The attack took place at around 3.30 am on Sunday in  ,  .

 The revellers also attacked two of Kumar’s colleagues – Ramsiya, the supervisor and Shadab, another guard – who were discharged from hospital. 
 
 The accused, who were apparently high on alcohol, also damaged office property in the guard room apart from smashing its windows.
 
 According to police, the guards had intervened on behalf of residents who complained of loud music from an 11th floor apartment in Coral Tower which belongs to one Sandeep Singh, an engineer.
 
 “Vinod was sent upstairs to the flat on 11th floor to request them to reduce the music volume after the guards received a complaint at the security room about loud music being played till late into the night. Vinod returned to Gate No. 1 of the society. However, more than a dozen young men followed him there from the apartment. They thrashed him with sticks which they picked up from the guard room. Other guards who tried to intervene were also beaten up. The men were drinking and revelling in the flat,” the agency’s liaison officer, Ashu Singh, told TOI.
 
 A mobile phone video, purportedly of the incident, later surfaced which shows one of the attackers hitting Vinod with a stick mercilessly even after he fell unconscious. The clip was shared extensively on social media on Monday. More than a couple of men were seen beating up two to three guards and chasing away others who intervened. A total number of 28 guards are deployed at the society.
 
 “Most residents were unaware about the incident until the mobile phone clip began circulating in the morning. The flat owner claimed he was free to do whatever he likes inside his premises. But the guards intervened only when there was disturbance for others,” said S K Kumar, a resident.
 
 The police booked eight persons in an FIR registered at Sahibabad police station on Sunday on the basis of a complaint lodged by the security agency. Apart from Sandeep Singh, the flat owner, his brother Manish and six others identified as Aman, Gaurav, Ravi Raman Jha, Shakeel, Abhishek Sharma and Mayank Agarwal were also booked. Some unnamed persons have also been listed as accused in the FIR that has been registered under sections 147 (rioting), 323 (assault), 308 (attempt to culpable homicide) and 504 (intimidation) of IPC.
 
 “Manish and Aman have been arrested. Investigations have revealed that the incident took place after a security guard went to the flat to stop a party at night. A few more persons were also involved in the attack. Efforts are underway to nab them,” said SSP Vaibhav Krishna.
 
 
