There will be no coming back for Vasai’s wetlands if the proposal to set up a ‘growth centre’ on 1,560 acres of what till 2016 were salt pans is approved by the state government.

 A promotional video by local MLA  , who champions the ‘growth centre’ as contained in the Draft   Plan 2016-2036, promises residential townships, a healthcare ‘city’, education centres, a sports complex, entertainment hubs and employment generating industries on land till recently designated as a no development zone.
 
  
  
 
 Global property consultancy firm Knight   has prepared a vision document, laying out the potential to exploit the land parcel for a “megacommerce centre”. Former   chief town planner Vidyadhar Phatak, who was on the panel to hear citizens’ objections and suggestions on the MMR plan, said Vasai-Virar’s local development plan can override the MMR plan. “If the local corporation desires, it can put the 1,560-acre land to some other use. We have always maintained that the local plan will be given preference over the MMR plan,” he told TOI.
 
 Uma Adusumilli, who heads the MMRDA’s planning division, said the MMR plan has been sent to the   headed by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. She refused to comment on the proposed Vasai growth centre.
 
 Former zilla parishad member and activist Samir Vartak said, “Nearly 63,000 locals have objected to the new MMR plan. In Vasai-Virar, developers have become politicians and elected representatives. So, who do we complain to? Two decades ago, when   had jurisdiction here, its development plan had earmarked this land as a plantation zone.”
 
 Father Eric Alphonso of Vasai’s ancient Holy Ghost Church said villagers still do not have basic civic amenities, like water connections. “First create infrastructure for locals, instead of dumping industries here,” he said. “The question is who is planning for whom? The government cannot take people for granted.”
 
 Father Francis D'Britto, who formed an environment protection committee to counter the MMR draft plan, described it as “builder-driven” to destroy Vasai’s green zone. “Most green belts have been proposed as development zones. We have been fighting against reckless development for three decades.”
 
  
  
 
