TRICHY: Trichy Corporation’s lone higher secondary school in the city has been facing a daunting challenge in the last two years: halting its alarming dropout rate. At least 50 students in various classes have abandoned studies mostly to perform menial jobs in the nearby market and commercial streets. Worse, many dropouts as well as enrolled students have been falling prey to alcohol and even ganja addiction, say childline sources. 

 The Dr Maduram Corporation Higher Secondary School on   (EB) road is the nearest school offering free education with perks for children of labourers working in Gandhi Market. However, while the student strength of the school has not seen a major growth, the dropout rate has been increasing in the past two years. As many as 25 students including at least five from higher secondary classes stopped coming to the school in the 2016-17 academic year while during 2017-18 the school saw 30 students including seven from higher secondary classes abandoning studies. The dropout rate in the school is the highest among corporation as well as government schools operating within city limits. There are 61 corporation schools among the 205 schools functioning within the city limits. 
 
 “Poor support from parents is the prime reason for students to drop out. We tried our best to persuade the children to enrol back but they are accustomed to earning money instead of attending classes,” a source in the corporation higher secondary school said. Childline sources added that that both students who dropped out and those undergoing education but residing in Gandhi market, Varaganeri and   neighbourhoods were prone to developing addiction to alcohol and even ganja. “Awareness was provided to the traders near corporation school not to employ the children. But the dropped out students voluntarily approach shops seeking menial jobs for minimal pay,” a source in the city childline unit told TOI. However, situated within 2km radius,   government school, another government school, has achieved minimal dropout rate in recent years.
 
 While the strength of class 11 and class 12 students in the EB road corporation higher secondary school stands at 54, Syed Murthuza School’s strength in the same classes stood at 316 in the 2017-2018 academic year. The management of Syed Murthuza school closely worked with childline to control the dropouts and produced extraordinary results in class 10 and class 12 including 100 per cent pass ratio. When contacted, the stakeholders of both district school education department and childline agency said that awareness measures would be stepped up to prevent dropouts further in EB road corporation school.
 
 According to Narcotics Intelligence Bureau (NIB) sources, many children around Gandhi market were prone to getting addicted to whitener inhalation and puncture sealant inhalation than ganja. “Availability of ganja has come down drastically but through a network of daily wage labourers, young boys are managing to source ganja. A large number of teenaged boys have got addicted to inhaling puncture sealant and whitener after a certain process,” a police source in NIB, Trichy said. Police sources said they were stepping up vigil around Gandhi Market, particularly in corporation parks.
 
 Police said that parental support was scant for the dropped out children as their fathers were mostly daily wagers given to alcoholism. “Some of the underprivileged women near Tharanallur would steal metal objects from construction site to sell them for a price. We have arrested a few in the recent past,” a police source said explaining the pitiable socioeconomic condition of the parents. Though the NIB claimed that it had managed to bring down circulation of ganja in Gandhi market vicinity through frequent arrests made in   that serves as a hub, police lamented that they could not tackle the drug menace involving inhalation of puncture sealants and whitener.
 
 Childline sources here claimed that parents of dropouts from other schools including Syed Murtuza higher secondary school acknowledged the need to educate their wards after counselling. They were cooperating to enrol the dropouts back. However, similar cooperation and acceptance were said to be missing among the parents of children who dropped out from the corporation higher secondary school on EB road.
 
 
 
