PANAJI: Goa   has directed its superintendents of police (SPs) to formulate a strategy to ensure the disposal of the 500-odd cases that are pending investigation for over one year. 

 Police sources say that most of these are murder, theft, robbery, dacoity, economic offences, drug cases, and human trafficking. 
 
 During a recent meeting, Goa police directed five SPs — in charge of North Goa, South Goa, the anti-narcotics cell, economic offences cell, and crime branch, to immediately identify the methodology that needs to be adopted to clear the pending cases.
 
 A senior police officer told TOI that this directive comes pursuant to a   directive that all state governments dispose cases that are pending investigation for over a year. Following the SC order, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) had asked state governments to furnish information on the number of such cases pending investigation. Goa police has already filed this reply to the MHA, sources said. 
 
 A senior police officer told TOI that the apex court has invited suggestions from states whether it should fix a timeline for the disposal of pending cases. Sources in the Goa police said that they’re yet to see whether such timelines can be fixed, considering every case is different when it comes to investigation.
 
 There are many reasons for the lag in investigations. One of the main reasons, senior sources in the force say, is pending forensic reports. Also, in cases such as economic offences and financial frauds, identifying the document trail takes time. There are also cases in which the complainant is a tourist or a foreigner, and during investigation, they’re untraceable. A senior officer told TOI that there are cases in which a foreigner files a complaint and then returns to his/her country. When that happens, the force is left clueless as to what to do. 
 
 There is also a shortage of investigation officers in the department, and thus completing probes takes time, sources say. TOI had recently reported that there are over 500 vacancies at the PSI, head constable and constable levels. At the top of the force, two deputy inspector general (DIG) posts lie vacant. There are also four vacant SP posts, while existing SPs have been given extra responsibilities. 
 
 
