MANALI:   chief minister   has said that as the state had received very little rain and snowfall on Tuesday, most parts of the state could face acute shortage of water and fodder in the coming days.

 Most parts of Himachal are totally dependent on rain, snowfall and glaciers for water for drinking and irrigation purposes. The water level at source, rivers and streams, go down if hills receive less snow in winter months. As the state has received very less snow and rain so far, the government is worried regarding inadequate supply of water in summer months.
 
 The CM on Tuesday called a review meeting to prepare strategy to deal with probable drought-like conditions in the coming days in the state and directed top officials of different departments to make arrangements in advance. He said horticulture, agriculture, irrigation and public health and animal husbandry departments should gear up to tackle the situation. The CM also expressed concern over the Met department prediction of scattered rainfall in the state and said the rainfall would not be sufficient to douse jungle fires.
 
 “Dry weather conditions can affect water supply schemes. The departments concerned should explore possibilities of installing more hand-pumps and be prepared with water tankers. Water level is decreasing fast and that is matter of concern,” the CM said, adding that remedial measures should be taken to check contamination of potable water at source and chlorination process should be taken in districts on massive scale to prevent jaundice and other water-borne diseases.
 
 In the meeting it also discussed that adequate funds were needed for providing relief to farmers for crop damage, water for drinking purpose and providing water and fodder for livestock. The funds would be provided from the state disaster response force. The CM also directed officials to hold meetings with deputy commissioners of all districts and the district administration should also remain prepared to supply water tankers in drought hit areas.
 
 Irrigation and public health minister Mahender Singh Thakur said both horticulture and agriculture sectors had been affected due to deficient rainfall in Chamba, Shimla, Solan, Hamirpur, Bilaspur, Una and Sirmaur. He directed the deputy commissioners of these areas to conduct regular sample test on water on sub-division level. Chief secretary   said all deputy commissioners should demand funds in time according to their need and the departments should prepare inventory of fodder, food grains, cattle, health related facilities, relief works and water as per preparedness measures.
 
 
