CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the   to clarify its position on the role of four persons initially arrested by Haryana Police for their alleged involvement in the infamous gangrape, murder and robbery case of Dingerheri in Mewat district. Justice Surinder Gupta passed these orders while hearing the bail plea of four accused — Sandeep, Amarjeet, Karamjeet and  , all residents of Mohammadpur Ahir village of Mewat.

 They had approached the HC for bail in the matter as the CBI had already submitted a chargesheet against four other accused belonging to ‘Axle gang’ in the same case. In response to their bail plea, the CBI had not clarified about the evidence against these four local youths in the case.
 
 “Reply filed by CBI is taken on record, which appears to be not clear about evidence which has come on record during investigation by CBI regarding involvement of petitioners in the crime. Fresh affidavit to this effect of the investigating officer/challaning authority be filed on March 7,” Justice Gupta ordered.
 
 The case had hit the national headlines, when on August 24, 2016, a family in Dingerheri was attacked. While a Muslim couple was killed, several members of their family were injured and a 21-year-old woman and a 16-year-old girl from the family were gang-raped.
 
 The case was initially registered on August 25, 2016 by Haryana police and it had claimed big success in the case after arresting four local youths within four days of the crime.
 
 However, there was resentment among the villagers who claimed that the arrested youth were not involved in the crime, following which the case was sent to CBI for probe. On December 5, 2016, CBI had taken over the investigation of the case.
 
 On September 13, 2017 Gurgaon police had arrested four persons identified as Hemant Chauhan, Ayan Chauhan, Vinay alias   and   of ‘Axle gang’. All four are now in the judicial custody after CBI. During the CBI probe, these accused have confessed to their involvement in the Dingerheri case and chargesheet has also been submitted against them.
 
 
