LUCKNOW : It could be a disaster waiting to happen. Logs and twigs placed for   Dahan under electric wires and near electricity poles pose a major threat of fire and electrocution across the city, reveals a reality check by TOI.

 The district administration has, time and again, issued strict guidelines to the police to not allow any bonfire near a place where there is such risk, but to no avail. Some r that they had compla 100 and also informed outposts concerned they got no response.
 
  
  
 
 The city has 3,121 designated spots for Holika Dahan.
 
 Hemant Joshi, a retired banker in Nishatganj’s lane number 2, said, “I have nothing against festivals, but suc things pose a threat one’s life and mus avoided. We live in a c ed area. If any eventuality happens, we will be charred in seconds.”
 
 Poornima Gupta, a teacher in   of Gomtinagar, said that a dahan spot near her house in sector-2 was risky but despite telling the police, no action had been initiated. “There must be a forum to address such civic issues,” she said.
 Vikas Ranjan Arya in sector-14 of   expressed his annoyance of running from one government department to another with the concern of a risky pyre near his house. He said no department—from the municipal rporation to LDA the police —paid heed to it.
 
 Then TOI took the ns of these citistrict magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma, he said he had briefed magistrates and police outpost s to monitor the spots.
 
 “All spots of the bonfire have been in place for long. Some sensitive points have been identified and Lesa and the fire department have been asked to monitor it along with hospitals,” said Sharma.
 
 He also said he will conduct a meeting with magistrates and police officers on Monday to review preparations.
 
 Meanwhile, SSP Deepak Kumar said there had been no incident of fire because of Holika Dahan in the city for two years.
 
 “I have directed the fire department to get ready for the day. All 27 firetenders have conducted a drill and will be in place along with UP-100 vehicles,” said Kumar.
 
 Lesa chief engineer AK Singh said some spots had been identified and they had decided to snap electricity during the ritual at places where shifting of dahan was not possible.
  
  
