NEW DELHI: A man and his   died while returning from a relative’s wedding as two cars had a head-on   in   early on Wednesday. Seven others are battling for life. 

 The victims’ family was returning home in east Delhi’s Trilokpuri in a Maruti Celerio after attending the  . The police said the other car, a Mahindra XUV, was the offending vehicle as its driver was speeding and hit the Celerio while trying to overtake another vehicle at 12.02am on Meethapur Road, adjacent to the   canal. 
 
 A passerby called the police when he saw the mangled cars with the passengers bleeding profusely in both of them. Two cops patrolling the area also saw the cars and reached the spot before the police team. A few of the injured were immediately sent to Apollo Hospital in a police emergency response vehicle without waiting for the PCR van, said Chinmoy Biswal, DCP (southeast). Both Triloki Nath (55), a security guard, and his son, Vikas (21), were declared brought dead. 
 
 Triloki Nath’s children, Abhay (14) and Neha (18), and nephews Shubham (22) and Rohit (19) were seriously injured. The car belonged to Sachin (22), a family friend, who is also stated to be in a serious condition. The Mahindra XUV belonged to Kuldeep (25) while the other passenger has been identified as Hariom (25). The condition of both is serious. 
 
 “Triloki’s nephew was getting married and everybody in the family was excited about it. They took part in every function in the past few days. On Tuesday, they left home around 9pm when Vikas returned after giving tuitions and Triloki uncle from his work,” said Yogesh, Triloki’s nephew. 
 
 Triloki, the breadwinner of the family, also looked after his brother’s widow and their three children since his death in dengue five years ago. “Everything seems to have come to a standstill. Vikas was starting to help his   financially by giving tuitions in Mayur Vihar,” Yogesh said. 
 
 Two more functions were scheduled in the next two days, he added. “This was the first wedding in our family in a long time. Neha had prepared a dance sequence for one of the functions. Both have been called off.” Triloki’s wife, who had a close shave as she chose to stay back, is in a state of shock. 
 
 The police said that according to the passersby who gathered at the spot, the SUV, which was heading towards Faridabad, was at a high speed and was trying to overtake a heavy vehicle when it rammed the Maruti Celerio. 
 
 Police said none of the injured was fit to give a police statement. A case under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304(A) (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered, cops said. 
 
 
