PUNE: Three men, including a software engineer, were arrested on Monday night for sexually harassing a 26-year-old woman and assaulting her friends during a brawl at a hotel in Mundhwa on Saturday.

 The victim had lodged a complaint with the Mundhwa police on Sunday morning. The police then had only a few clues about the identity of the trio because the CCTV camera of the hotel could not capture their vehicle registration number because of darkness. The trio were finally arrested based on the bank details obtained from a card swipe done by one of them at the hotel and his profile on social media.
 
 Mundhwa police’s senior inspector Anil Patrudkar identified the arrested trio as Samarth Yogesh Tyagi (29) of Hadapsar, Jicho Chandra Mangat (28) of Bhosari and Anil Satish Mendol (30) of Dighi. “Tyagi is a software engineer working with a market research company in Camp, while the other two work as executives in software companies,” Patrudkar said.
 
 On Tuesday, the three suspects were produced before a magisterial court in Pune Cantonment. “The court ordered their release on bail,” Patrudkar said.
 
 All the three have been booked for offences punishable under sections 354A (sexual harassment), 323 and 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 34 (common intention) of IPC.
 
 The complainant, a resident of Kharadi, stated in the FIR that she and her friends visited the hotel around 10pm on Saturday. The group comprised a few women and men.
 
 They were having food when the three men, seated on an adjacent table, started passing comments at the women. The suspects also kept staring at them.
 
 The FIR stated that when one of the three suspects made advances towards the complainant and her two female friends, one of their male friends had a word with him. The complainant also asked the man to leave.
 
 According to the FIR, the suspect then grabbed the complainant’s friend with his collar and started abusing him. The complainant and her friends intervened but the man was not ready to listen to them.
 
 He pushed the complainant and left the hotel’s dining area only to return with a heavy blunt object. He assaulted the complainant’s friend on his head and dragged him outside the hotel around 11.30pm, the FIR stated.
 
 The man’s two friends were waiting outside and they started kicking and punching the complainant’s friend, the FIR stated. The complainant and her friends intervened but they were abused physically and verbally. The suspects then left the hotel premises in their car.
 
 
