KOLKATA: Bucking the general trend of student drop-outs at Bengali medium schools, government-sponsored   (Boys),  , that has seen a surge in demand from parents keen to admit their wards, has acquired a school that had closed due to paucity of students to open a second campus.

 
 The new campus was inaugurated on Friday at the erstwhile   at 56 Mirzapur Steet. Primary school council chairman  , who was present on the occasion, said sincerity of the headmaster and teachers made the difference. Once a new building is constructed at the old campus, it will increase the student capacity at the twin campuses to around 2,500-3,000 from 1,944 at present.
 
 
  
 
 “Taki Boys has always been a happy hunting ground for parents keen to admit their wards as the school has consistently performed well at the board and students from here have made a name thereafter. Unlike other Bengali medium schools, where sincerity of teachers is lacking, the headmaster and staff at   Boys function as a unit and strive to achieve good results. Apart from high standards in academics, the school has also been able to maintain discipline. Education minister   wanted the school to expand. He would have been at delighted to be here but could not due to the forthcoming panchayat elections,” said Manna.
 
 The school won the district’s Best School Award in the category of academics, sports and co-curricular activities in 2015. The school recently celebrated its golden jubilee.
 
 Paresh Kumar Nanda, the headmaster of Taki Boys, said while subjects would initially be taught in Bengali, English as a medium of teaching would be introduced from the next academic session in keeping with the changing scenario to make students more equipped to face challenges in academics and career. At present, classes II, III, VI and VII are being held at the new campus.
 
 “We realize the importance of developing English communication skill among students that is essential in all spheres. In its new campus, we will introduce Madhyamik curriculum to be taught in English medium for the students of preparatory to Class XII,” he said.
 
 Madhya Kolikata Balika Vidyalay, a Bengali medium girls’ school, had shut down in 2015 as the student count had dipped below the viable level. Thereafter, Taki Boys had acquired the school. The teachers and staff were also brought under its management.
 
 
