Nagpur: Granting respite to self-proclaimed ‘Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)’ president Janardhan Moon, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday, directed the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to grant him permission for conducting a programme by his organization at Suresh Bhat auditorium in Reshimbag.

 A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Arun Upadhye asked the respondents to complete the formalities as early as possible. The petitioner was also asked to cooperate with the civic officials in this regard. The NMC however made it clear that instead of full day, Moon would be given a particular time slot. 
 
 Moon, who had earlier put stake on name of Reshimbag-based RSS contending that it wasn’t a registered organization with Charity Commissioner’s office, made an application to the civic authorities to conduct an event on April 29 between 10am-7pm at the auditorium and was ready to pay full charges. A request letter in this regard was dispatched to the NMC officials on February 9.
 
 As per rules, the money is to be deposited before 45 days of the programme. Accordingly, the petitioner went to deposit the requisite amount as stipulated by the NMC to its sports officer. However, the latter refused to accept it without citing any reason. Moon then approached the civic chief requesting him for permission to hold the programme, but no response came from his side for a long time.
 
 He then filed a plea through counsel Ashwin Ingole contending that denial of authorities to allow him to conduct the programme was violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of India.
 
 Citing the constitution of India and NMC Act, the petitioner prayed for directives to respondents to grant permission to his organization — RSS — to hold the event at Suresh Bhat Auditorium on April 29 after completion of all the formalities.
 
 Earlier, the NMC counsel informed that Moon was denied permission as he failed to properly fill up the application form for getting the hall on rent. The HC then asked him to reply in requisite format as demanded by the corporation.
 
 
