PUDUCHERRY: Dreadlocks, jata in Vedic scriptures, are one of the main characteristic features of  . Sages and saints, who have renounced the world and worldly pleasures, are however fond of their   – short and thick, interlocked and serpent-shaped – regardless of their size and shape. They decorate their long dreadlocks in different styles by collecting and tying some parts of it on the head and leaving other parts hanging on their shoulders to balance the weight. Apart from the dreadlocks, they are also fond of   or red or yellow turbans and clothing and of smearing ash and sandalwood paste on their bodies.

 Varanasi-based   Radhakrishna Ganeshan has attempted to capture on camera the mystic looks and lifestyle of the sadhus of the holy city of Banaras (Kashi). Indira Gandhi National Centre for Arts (IGNCA), regional centre, Puducherry, has displayed his works at Sri Aurobindo Ashram   house on Beach Road. The exhibition titled ‘Sadhus of Banaras’ was inaugurated on March 5. It will conclude on March 11.
 
 “In ancient times, sadhus usually wandered and led a life in penury. However, with the passage of time, their life got organised which can be well observed in their activities and presentation. Here is an attempt to depict the lifestyle and activities of sadhus of Banaras that represent the cultural heritage of the holy city. The sadhus typically have a simple lifestyle. They have few or no possession. They survive on food left over or donated by others,” said Ganeshan.
 
 There are numerous sects and sub-sects reflecting the lineages and schools and traditions among sadhus like Shaiva, Vaishnava and Shakta, besides Aghori sadhus, among others. “Aghori sadhus share the practices of ancient Kapalikas where they beg with a human skull with their body smeared with cremation ashes. They experiment with substances or practices that are generally abhorred by society,” he said.
 
 The exhibition also included photographs of sadhvis. “Sadhvis often live secluded lives in ascetic compounds. They are regarded as manifestations of the Goddess. There are a number of charismatic sadhvis as religious teachers in contemporary India,” Ganeshan said.
 
 The ongoing show is his maiden thematic exhibition.
 
 Meanwhile, on Tuesday, the IGNCA in association with Pondicherry University organised a lecture on ‘Cultural geometry of Kashi: The spiritual manifestation of divine image’ by Rana P B Singh, retired professor from Hindu Banaras University, on the university premises.
 
 
