CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government has failed to take any disciplinary action against Punjab Civil Services ( ) officers Rajesh Dhiman and   allegedly involved in irregularities despite recommendations from local government, tourism and culture affairs minister  .

 There are allegations against former   municipal commissioner Dhiman of misusing his position in the purchase of a tree pruning machine last year at exorbitant rates. As per allegations, the machine was purchased for Rs 1.79 crore whereas its price in India was around Rs 28 lakh. Dhiman is now posted as additional chief administrator (ACA) of the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA).
 
 As per the report sent by the director of revenue intelligence (DRI) to the Punjab government in August 2017, former director of the tourism department Randhawa, in connivance with a businessman Vijay Nanda, had allegedly sold antique artefacts in the international market. Randhawa is now the chief executive officer of Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA).
 
 Personnel department officials say till they get text of the chargesheet to be issued to these officers by their parent department, they cannot take any action. 
 
 “How would we come to know what charges are there against these officers and where they are at fault till we receive the draft chargesheet from their departments,” said a senior official of the personnel department.
 
 Principal secretary of the local government department A Venu Prasad told TOI, “They (personnel department) have not sent us any reference. When they will do so, we will prepare the chargesheet.” However, Sidhu did not respond to the calls and text messages by TOI. 
 
 In a press statement released on January 9, Sidhu had stated “in the case of bungling/irregularities by both the officers prompt written communication was issued for taking action”. He had further stated on January 4 that his department had written to the chief secretary to suspend Dhiman.
 
 Sidhu had further added, “It was also written that the text of the chargesheet to be issued to the officer would be sent later on by the department.” But the personnel department is still waiting for the chargesheet.
 
 In case of Randhawa, Sidhu had also stated on January 9 that it was on September 1, 2017, he had written to chief minister Amarinder Singh demanding a CBI probe against him and also taking disciplinary action against him. 
 
 A senior officer of the tourism and cultural affairs department told TOI after Sidhu had made a statement on January 9, no further action has been taken in Randhawa’s case as per his knowledge.
 
 
