With just the right nip in the air, the   is ready to roll over the weekend of February 10-11 at the grand old Mehboob Studio, where international blues artistes at the top of their game will play their hearts out at Asia’s largest blues celebration. The genre has steadily firmed up its roots in Mumbai where the good ol’ twelve bars are perhaps living its second youth. With enthusiasts trooping in from London and Hong Kong to Belgaum and Mysore since it kicked off eight winters ago, no wonder blues legend Buddy Guy had declared at the end of his performance in 2012 that “the blues lives here”. 

 If Buddy Guy gave the festival a jumpstart in 2011, the festival has over the years welcomed an incredible roster of names – Taj Mahal and Walter Trout to Joss Stone and Billy Gibbons. In its eighth year, the line-up is just as star-studded. 
 
 Sharing his thoughts about this year’s artiste line-up, Anand Mahindra, chairman, Mahindra Group, said, “The Mahindra Blues Festival has a loyal, almost cult-like following in Mumbai, and it only gets bigger and better with each year. We are sure the 2018 line-up will create a magical ambience for blues fans with legendary performers from across the globe right here in Maximum City.” 
 
 The spotlight this year will be on the Godfather of British Blues – John Mayall; Walter ‘Wolfman’ Washington, New Orleans’ last living link to a generation that was all about soul; blues-rock guitar virtuoso, Coco Montaya; Canadian powerhouse, Layla Zoe; and Mumbai-bred Blackstratblues.
 
 For over five decades,   has served as a pioneer of blues music, while his band, The Bluesbreakers, has acted as a finishing school for leading British blues-rock musicians from the Sixties with  ,  , and Mick Taylor joining his band. Washington combines rhythm, blues and modern jazz, creating his unique music style, while master guitarist and soul-powered vocalist Coco Montaya, with his hard-edged sound and style, is meant to enthral blues addicts. Popularly known as ‘the reincarnate of Janis Joplin’ and deemed as Canada’s ‘darling of the blues’, Layla Zoe is a powerful face of the blues and roots music scene internationally. Closer home, Mumbai’s very own Blackstratblues solo project of Warren Mendonsa will be back once more this year to rub shoulders with the greats.
 
 Despite the genre’s continuing decline in rankings in the West, it has been a meteoric journey for the festival in India that has grown spectacularly. If every February, Mehboob Studio in Bandra, where some of the most famous Hindi movies hosts a weekend of bluesy jingle jangle, the festival has also extended itself to the Mecca for blues Buddy Guy’s Legends, the 28-year-old blues club in Chicago that platforms local blues acts every May and October at the Mahindra Blues Weekend.
 
 (The Mahindra Blues Festival in association with The Times of India is co-sponsored by The Glenlivet Books, Gledo & Mahindra Finance. The festival is promoted and produced by Oranjuice Entertainment. Tickets available on bookmyshow.com)
 
 
