NAGPUR: Intern and post graduate students from the   (OT) School and Centre at the   ( ) have developed five indigenous devices that can be used in rehabilitation of various types of disabilities, both from birth like cerebral palsy and accident and acquired due accidents etc.

 These are extremely low cost and handy devices that can be used for helping patients perform various exercises essential for restoring the functioning of the affected organs. Dr Sofiya Azad, the professor and head of the OT school, told TOI that all these devices were developed by the students as part of their routine projects. “All of these equipment have won a lot of recognition at various competitive festivals at University and national levels,” she said.
 
 One of the device, called as ‘cognitive dexterity aid’ has been developed by Humaira Khan and  , is basically used to strengthen the hand-eye coordination, colour coordination and colour perception.
 
 “Children with developmental disabilities like cerebral palsy can be made to improve the hand and eye coordination using this device. The device has coloured buttons. When the child puts his finger on the right colour on the board as he sees the colour on his hand, the button gives a beep. The device also measures the number of colours the child counts in one go in the given time,” said Khan.
 
 The second device has been named as ‘carrying-cum-mobility device’. This is a combination of a Kangaroo bag like pouch for carrying a disabled child by the mother on her chest while travelling. The second part of the device is a dismantlable equipment which can otherwise be used to support the child on the ground and minimizing the weight of the patient on the mother. 
 
 Dr Azad claimed that this is the only prototype of its kind anywhere. Sheetal Patel and Rupali Prajapati who developed the device say that it helps in managing the patients with locomotor disabilities.
 
 Another device used for all hand-related exercises called as ‘multi-hand exerciser’ has been developed by Bhagyashali Suryawanshi is used for the wrist injuries (either the radial or the ulnar injury), for patients with compromised hand functions and for wrist flexion and extension.
 
 The fourth device is called as ‘talking pen’ and is used to treat visual perceptive defects. It is used for improving the coordination of eyes and other limb movements of drivers, Parkinson’s patients and children affected from reading disabilities like dyslexia. “It improves the attention span as well as eye hand coordination,” said Parajakta Kale, who developed the equipment.
 
 The fifth equipment works on the principle of ‘mirror therapy’. It is used to bombard the neuro-muscular system of patients (like that of stroke patients whose limbs get paralysed). This has been designed by Sneha Tale. 
 
 Other teachers who guided the students in the making these devices besides Dr Azad include, associate professor Dr Leena Deshpande and former teacher Dr M S Warahade.
 
 
