PATNA:   (IIT-P) will host the ninth edition of its annual techno-cultural fest - 'Anwesha' - from February 2 to 4 on the   campus. The theme of the three-day event will be 'Every spell is a journey'. 

 Chief minister   has given his consent to be the chief guest on the first day of the fest. Anwesha's flagship events like Mr and Ms Anwesha, Syngphony and Heel Turn, among others will be organized on Day 2. On the third day, bands like Euphoria, Agnee and Parikrama will enthrall the audience with their performances.
 
  Tarumitra: More than 100 students from St Xavier's College, A N College, Patna University, Don Bosco Academy, May Flower School (MFS), Kamla Nehru Shishu Vihar and S R Vidyapeeth attended an 'Organic Makar Sankranti Festival' organized by Tarumitra on its premises on Saturday. 
 
 The celebration began with a song dedicated to the earth and a PowerPoint presentation on the process of cultivating rice through organic farming.
 
 State Pollution Control Board chairman Ashok Ghosh, who was the chief guest of the event, appreciated the promotion of organic farming for a healthier environment. 
 
 Tarumitra founder Fr Robert Athickal, coordinator Devopriya Dutta, MFS principal N Thakur and Notre Dame Academy teachers also attended the function. Everyone ate organic 'chura', 'dahi', jaggery and 'tilkut' in the end.
 
  Magadh Mahila College: The newly elected members of the Student Central Society (SCS) of Magadh Mahila College took oath at a swearing-in ceremony, presided by principal Shashi Sharma and   president Aruna Choudhary on Saturday. 
 
 Addressing the students, the principal said it was a challenge for the elected members to maintain discipline on the college campus.
 
  NIT-P: Preparations are afoot for the annual meet of the   College of Engineering (BCE)-National Institute of Technology-Patna (NIT-P) Alumni Association on February 4. 
 
 CM Nitish Kumar, an alumnus of the institution, will be the chief guest.
 
 According to BCE-NIT-P Alumni Association president Ravi Shankar Sinha and secretary Girish Kumar Chaudhary, the students of 1958, 1968 and 1983 batches will be felicitated as diamond, golden and silver jubilee members. "Six senior alumni will be honoured and last year's toppers of different exams awarded   medals on the occasion. A cricket match between the students and the teachers will be the highlight of the daylong function," they said and added a colourful souvenir would also be released.
 
 
