CHANDIGARH: Senior Congress leader and urban planning minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa on Wednesday suggested that the final draft of the much-hyped   submitted by local bodies minister   did not have his concurrence despite him being a member of the three-member cabinet sub-committee.

 Bajwa told TOI that he was not informed about the last meeting before the policy was reportedly submitted to chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday. “I got to know of it from media reports,” he said.
 
 Interestingly, the much-awaited policy was not even discussed at the meeting of council of ministers on Tuesday and has not been approved.
 
 Asked if his disagreements with points in the policy, if any, have been considered, Bajwa said he would now convey these if the report is put up before the cabinet or if Amarinder discusses it with him. Bajwa refused to reveal whether he had some other suggestions to make through the policy. 
 
 Apart from Bajwa, finance minister   was also a member of the cabinet sub-committee.
 
 Sources said it seemed to be an attempt by Sidhu to take full credit for the policy and, in his rush to submit the report, he failed to take the two other ministers on board. Apart from suggesting ways to rein in the business of illegal mining, the mining policy was being looked forward to providing relief to general public from spiralling sand prices in the state.
 
 The much-hyped draft mining report prepared by Punjab government was seen as a damage control exercise after allegations of involvement of its leaders in illegal mining cost former minister   his cabinet berth, even though he was given a clean chit by an inquiry commission constituted by the state government.
 
 After Sidhu handed over the mining policy draft to Amarinder, the latter had announced that since it was a cabinet sub-committee, a final call on the suggestions made therein would be taken by the council of ministers.
 
 Meanwhile, sources revealed that Bajwa met Amarinder on Wednesday but there was no discussion on the mining policy. It is still not clear if the policy would be put up in the next meeting of the cabinet. Some are of the opinion that the policy was not taken up in the last cabinet meeting after Bajwa expressed his displeasure over not being kept in the loop.
 
 Sidhu had been hogging the limelight, visiting Hyderabad to have a look at model adopted by   and  , where a presentation was made by officers of the two state governments. Besides, the delegation also paid a visit to the banks of Godavari, where sand is mined, to have a first-hand knowledge about the Telangana model. The delegation had also toured kandi area in Hoshiarpur district of Punjab to know about crushers.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, Sidhu was not available for comments.
 
 Earlier this year, Sidhu had expressed his displeasure at the way Bajwa had taken the centrestage for selection of mayor of newly-elected civic body in Amritsar. Bajwa had tried to reach out to Sidhu by going to his house but the latter had not met him.
 
 
