Every year, the theatre societies of   find themes and material for their plays from the most-talked about topics in the country. And this year, it was the   controversy, along with instances of   and  . At the recently-concluded street play festival of  , Shor, while some societies added references from the controversy-marred film to their plays, others brought to light the societal pressures faced by people.
 
  
  In the play by IP College references to Aishwarya Rai Bachchan’s ‘ideal beauty’ were also made in the play 
 
 
 
 The festival began with a performance by Anubhuti, the theatre society of Janki Devi Memorial College. The society performed its annual street production, The Cool Guys at the festival. While the theme of the play was cow vigilantism and mob lynching, in one of the sections, the play also talked about all the movies that have had to face problems before their release. “Our play depicts how an individual loses his identity, his authentic thoughts, and ultimately his own natural self to those who are superior to him. People are unable to exercise their fundamental rights and are forced to watch only what seems appropriate to certain people, to behave in a selective manner and are expected to follow or support the prevalent ideology. Those who try to stand apart, after a particular time their voices go void or are silenced,” said Khushi Sangwan, leader of Anubhuti. 
 Kshitij, the street play society of  , presented a play that talked about the Padmaavat row. Recently, members of Karni Sena had announced that they will make a movie on Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s mother, and call it Leela Ki Leela. The fringe group’s statement was used by the society members in their play, Bhagwa Blues. “When we talk about the movie in our play, we have one quoted the fringe group’s statement that since there is freedom of expression, they will make a movie on Bhansali’s mother, and see if that offends people or not. We are against the violence that was done by those opposing the movie. The movie and the issues are separate, but violence is not justified,” said Shivani, president of Kshitij. 
 
  
  Gargi’s street play society Kshitij presented Bhagwa Blues, a play that talked about the Padmaavat row and how members of Karni Sena threatened to make a movie on Bhansali’s mother
 
 
 
 At the fest, Abhivyakti, the dramatics society of IP College, performed its annual street production, Every BODY. “We talk about the extremes that people go to just because they wish to have a certain body type which is considered ideal by the society. We also address eating disorders and how we compliment our friends by saying, ‘Aaj patli lag rahi hai, achhi lag rahi hai.’ These are the things that we are targeting through our play,” explained Suvarna Menon, a member of the society. 
 Maharaja Agrasen Institute of Technology performed De Taali. The play began by explaining the meaning of the term ‘transgender’. It focussed on the lives of those who are forced to live according to a gender that they do not associate themselves with. “We know nothing about them (transgenders) but most of us despise them or are scared of them because of the perception that is created in our minds. We are focussing on the lives of all those who are kept at a distance from the society without any fault of theirs,” said Richa Pudu, president of the society.
 
  
  Aayam performed De Taali, a play that focussed on the lives of those who are forced to live according to a gender they do not associate themselves with
 
 
 
 While the participants from different colleges were performing, they had left their bags on the lawns where the event was organized. After the performances, they noticed that seven phones and two wallets were missing from their bags. “The gates of the college were opened for all today, so anyone could have taken the phones and wallets. We have filed an FIR at the Lajpat Nagar Police Station,” said a participant at the fest. 
 
  
  The play De Taali tried to explain the meaning of transgender 
 
  
  Janki Devi Memorial College presented their street play 'The Cool Guys'
 
  
  
  
  
 
