In the latest episode of  , Naira and Suhana dance together and everybody applauds them. The journalist comes to function and sees Suhana dancing on the stage. Kartik, Kirti and Naksh discuss about catching hold of Suhana and her family red handed and say that Naira won't spare them.

 
 Savita is still locked in the room when she hears Luv and Kush discussing about the gifts hidden in the store room and gets tempted to steal them. Naira and Suhana continue to dance. Savita escapes and comes out. She tries to signal Rahul and Suhana about stealing the gifts. When they are dancing, Suhana tears the back of Naira's dress with a piece fo glass. Kartik sees that and comes to her rescue.
 
 Suhana gets angry seeing her plan fail. Dadi appreciates Naira and Suhana's dancing talents. Naira tells Suhana that she never expected her to stoop to such a low level.
 
 Savita talks to Suhana and Rahul and tells them how Naira has locked her inside a room and adds that she knows all their secrets. Suhana promises to seek revenge. She asks Rahul to lock Savita in the room again so that they could expose Naira in front of everyone. Dadi asks Swarna to bring Suhana so that the rituals could start.
 
 Naira goes to have a glass of juice. Her stalker hides behind and watches her.
 
 Suhana and Shubham sit down for the rituals. Dadi and Swarna search for Savita. She comes out crying. Rahul says that somebody locked her in the room. When asked, Savita takes Naira's name. They don't believe her at first. Savita tries to expose her and says that she tried to exchange the real jewellery with the fake ones. Kartik asks them to stop spreading false claims and bring proof for the same.
 
 Savita and Rahul test the authenticity of the jewels in front of everyone. They are shocked to find out that they were indeed real. Kartik, Naira, Kirti and Naksh mock them. Kartik is glad to see that the entire plan worked out.
 
 The Goenkas accuse Savita of plotting against Naira and say that she shouldn't have done this. Suhana apologises in front of everybody.
 
 The journalist meets with Kartik and Naira and tells them the truth about Suhana and her gang. Naira is shocked to find out the truth about her.
 
 
