Surely, rail trips have been a fond memory of our childhood days. The fun of trapezing over the berths and waiting for the train to pass through a cave or a bridge still remains as a special memory. Train journeys are always an exciting endeavour if you are particularly interested in meeting a wide variety of people from different parts of our diverse nation! Don’t we all remember meeting some amusing and few interesting co-passengers during our train journeys? Well, all of them are actually fun to be with and your journey remains incomplete without such characters. Here are seven different kinds of passengers each one of us have dealt with while enjoying a memorable journey courtesy the  !

 
 
 
 Why is it that the one who snores the most will fall asleep first? You never knew what insomnia was like until you shared your seat with this person who is capable of getting enough sleep for themselves and almost none for others. While settling your luggage, all of us have prayed that no one in our coach snores so badly that you have to burn the midnight oil, literally! All they do is lie down and produce some unnatural snores you've never heard before in your life. The worst part is that they remain so unaware of their crime the next morning that all you can do is to give them your best death stare!
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 Ever shared a berth with a group of senior citizens discussing the future of the country. Discussing politics in India should have a retirement age! All these men talk during their journey is only bad words about the government and the way it should function. And if by any chance they feel that the conversation needs extra opinions and participation, they will not hesitate to include you into their conversation. And that's the moment when you wish for a time travel! 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 This is the most astonishing lot. All they do is to complain about the pantry service and the quality of food provided by the railways. But this does not stop them from gorging on the food served from the pantry to satisfy their voracious appetite. These foodaholics are the ones who will order another cup of soup, a few more breadsticks, butter and ice-cream cups. Slurps and chewing out loud are complementary when you are seated next to them. Earbuds to the rescue!
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 From funk to folk to rock to romance, you become an audience to almost all sorts of musical genres when you travel in trains. Have we all not heard bhajans as a ringtone of your fellow passenger? The journey becomes a DJ party with a mix of songs playing at the same time - not a pleasant one of course! Don’t you wish to remind them that ringtones are meant to alert every time someone calls and not to express what you're feeling at the moment. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 They are the ones who eat together, laugh together, stay together and travel together just like one big happy family straight out of a Bollywood movie. The only good thing about this is that they take you down the memory lane and reminds you of the several family trips you took during your childhood. But when they open the home cooked food gourmet, the aroma of ghobi, aaloo, aachaar and paranthas is surreal.
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Someone please remind them that "Your business is your's not of your fellow passengers". This lot talk so loud that you actually become a part of their conversation revolving around accusing life. Though unknowingly, they let us know everything about their professional life. From their boss to their colleagues, by the end of your journey, you will have all the details of their office with you - whether you need them or not. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 The ones who are constantly looking for charging their phone, waiting to swap their seats with a fellow passenger, who constantly peep into your laptop while you're enjoying a nice movie, who burp a lot, who master the art of extracting nasal-mucus, the inappropriate couple, loud kids and ones who never flush once they are out from the toilet, train journeys remains undoubtedly one of the most memorable journeys all through your life!. 
 
 
  
 
