Bengaluru: From being fascinated by science fiction movies as a kid, to initiating one (Interstellar), and from reading about astronomy and astrophysics in newspapers and journals to finding Gravitational Waves (GWs),   — who shared the 2017 Nobel prize for physics with Rainer Weiss and Barry C Barish — has done it all. The co-founder of Laser Interferometer Gravitational Wave Observatory ( ), who was in Bengaluru for the   award ceremony, spoke to TOI about science, fiction and the future of astrophysics. Excerpts:

 
 
 
 We faced difficulties for two years. We were vigorously opposed by some powerful members of the astronomy community, who found it very hard to believe that we would use $300 million and not see anything, but we prevailed. And since the time the Congress granted the first construction fund in 1992, we have received sustained funding from the National Science Foundation ( ) and the Congress, which is remarkable given that they knew it would be a long and hard goal.
 
 
 
 
 I began thinking about it from a theoretical point of view about 50 years ago. It was 45 years ago when Rainer Weiss proposed GW detectors and it took me four years to believe that his idea has a serious chance of succeeding. I never had any serious doubts once I fully understood how it may work. We overcame many obstacles. Initially, I thought it would be much faster, but by 2000, I thought it would take very long. I expected it by 2017 but it happened in 2015.
 
 
 
 
 Yes. The primary goal was never to prove Einstein right. It was less interesting to do that. What was more interesting was that we were going to do with GWs what Galileo (Galilei) did with electromagnetic waves. Galileo changed the way we learnt about the universe 400 years ago, and LIGO, which has initiated GW astronomy now, will have a similar impact. If you look at what Galileo’s work did for 400 years, we can only speculate what GW can do. It is going to be a marvelous path to discoveries.
 
 
 
 
 That’s absolutely right. There were three major directions of research here. One was the experimental side of things — development of detectors — in which India didn’t play much of a role. But the second thing was to understand the shape of the waves that we were likely to see, which was essential for us to compare and get information out. The third was data analytics. In the second the third areas, India played a crucial role.
 
 
 
 
 I was enthralled by sci-fi films as a kid and they did push me toward science, although reading serious articles about science between the ages of 8-14 probably played a bigger role. Interstellar is one of three movies that had science built into it from the beginning (Contact, a 1997 sci-fi film and 2001: A Space Odyssey are the other two), and Lynda and I initiated the movie. She approached the Nolan brothers after we had written it. They came on board and embraced the idea. They almost changed the story completely but kept all the science. 
 
 
