PUNE: Some paintings at the 18th century   citadel   may soon be lost to the tyranny of time. 

 A Ganesh painting, in particular, has chipped away to such an extent that the image is barely visible. The elaborate work of art is seen over a wall near the ticketing counter.
 
 Incidentally, Shaniwarwada has enjoyed a ‘focus’ monument tag since 1999, which means that it should get priority for restoration and upkeep over other structures. However, nothing could be far from reality.
 
 The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) admitted that the painting is rotting but expressed an inability to restore the work. “We can undertake chemical treatment of the wall to preserve what is left of the painting. The treatment will ensure that the painting can battle weather vagaries and winds. It will also ensure that it would not absorb dust. We had last undertaken chemical treatment work here around seven to eight years ago — right from the main ‘darwaza’ till the Nagarkhana,” an official from the ASI said.
 
 Experts said that the painting, depicting a piece of the Peshwa-era culture, will soon be lost if no corrective steps are taken.
 
 Sharvey Dhongde, co-convener of the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH),  , said ever since ASI installed the automatic gates at the entrance of Shaniwarwada, the experience of looking at the painting had been ruined. “It is hardly possible to view the painting now. However, the work can be restored and conserved easily. 
 
 INTACH has done such work at hundreds of sites across the country, where archaic paintings were saved. If nothing else, the least ASI can do is protect the painting from further damage by putting non-reflective glass or an acrylic sheet over it so that it does not gather dust,” Dhongde said.
 
 The expert shared that an image of Ganesh must have been painted on the wall keeping in mind the Maharashtrian tradition of having the deity’s image at the entrance as an auspicious symbol.
 
 City-based conservationist   said that the Ganesh painting in the wada is one of the original drawings that survived the fire in 1828. “However, repainting the sketches on the walls will falsify historical record. As per the purist philosophy, if the wall is flaking off, it should be left alone. It is a matter of preference — beauty over history, or vice versa,” said Kalamdani.
 
 The conservationist added that ASI wishes to leave the painting as it is, rather than do something that may be less than historically consistent.
 
 A person in charge at Shaniwarwada claimed the painting was over 250 years old and faded ever since it was discovered seven years ago while chemical treatment works were under way. “The chemists discovered that the wall bore a Ganesh painting, which had remained hidden all these years under a coat of limestone paint. The chemists then removed the limestone paint coating to bring the drawing to view. It has been like that ever since,” he said.
 
 History scholar Pandurang Balkawade said, “The Ganesh and Garud painting on the wall was done in 1732. Bajirao Peshwa had invited artistes from Rajasthan to have the painting made. This type of painting is called ‘Maratha Chitrashaili’ and was found only in structures connected to the Peshwa empire, including Nanawada. Very few such paintings are left in the current age, with Shaniwarwada and Nanawada perhaps being the only two monuments housing specimens of the Maratha Chitrashaili.”
 
 Built in 1732, Shaniwarwada was the seat of the Peshwas until 1818, when they lost to the   in the third Anglo-Maratha War
 
 
