Nagpur: City buses are likely to go off the roads if Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) fails to clear dues of three   operators on Thursday. The dues of three Red bus operators, Green bus operator, transport manager Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System Ltd (DIMTS), and two other private agencies supplying conductors have increased to Rs37 crore due to operational losses, civic body’s failure to give viability gap fund (VGF), and lack of special grant from the state government.

 Three Red Bus operators — city-based Hansa City Bus Services (Nagpur) Private Limited, New Delhi-based Shama Sham, and Pune-based Travel Time Car Rental Private Ltd — have submitted letters to municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal and city transport manager Shivaji Jagtap on Wednesday. They have expressed the inability to operate buses after delay in payments. “Operational breakdown due to no fund is expected any time.... for your information and necessary action please,” operators stated in their individual letters.
 
 Sources from city transport committee told TOI the Red bus operators have planned to stop running buses from second half of Thursday if they do not get payment from NMC in the first half. “First operators planned to curtail buses by 30% in the first half. Jagtap held a meeting with the operators and assured to release payment in first half. Then operators told Jagtap all buses will be removed from service in the second half,” sources said.
 
 Green bus operator — Swedish bus maker Scania Commercial Vehicles Private Ltd — did not give any letter despite delay in payment.
 
 Currently, 360 buses are in operation in city bus service — Aapli Bus — of which 340 are Red buses and 20 Green buses. Any strike from Red bus operators will bring the entire bus service to a grinding halt.
 
 Municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal said city bus service will not be hampered on Thursday. “We would release part payment to operators on Thursday.”
 
 As per NMC data, three Red Bus operators got monthly payment on regular basis till July 2017, since the launch of Aapli Bus in December 2016. Payment for August was released in October. Half payment for September was released in November, after they threatened to stop services. Payments for October, November and December are pending. Total dues of three operators is around Rs27 crore.
 
 Similarly, NMC is to pay Rs5 crore to Green bus operator since September. DIMTS is to get payment since August for dues of Rs4 crore. Two private agencies supplying conductors — Unity Security Force, and Security and Intelligence Services (SIS) — too have not got payment of Rs1 crore since September.
 
 Three Red Bus operators sent five letters between November 14 and December 28 to NMC and got no positive response, so they decided to stop the services. Sources from city transport committee said operators are not able to pay monthly salaries to drivers and for diesel. “Drivers threatened to go on strike in December 2017 due to delay in salaries for a month.”
 
 Mudgal said there was a need to find alternative revenue sources to ensure VGF in bus service. “All city public transport across the state is in loss. We are planning to start pay and park on more roads soon to get some revenue. Also, advertisements in and outside buses will be kicked-off,” he said.
 
 
