New Delhi:   on Tuesday named the 18-member   which will represent the country at the prestigious   XXI   to begin on April 4. The Indian team is grouped in Pool B along with Pakistan, Malaysia, Wales, England and will begin their campaign on April 7 against Pakistan. 

 
 
 The 18-member yeam will be captained by midfielder   while the responsibilities of vice-captain will be shouldered by  . It was under Manpreet’s leadership the Indian team lifted the coveted Asia Cup 2017 followed by a bronze medal feat at the Odisha Men’s Hockey World League Final Bhubaneswar 2017. 
 
 
 
 Freeman and drag-flick expert Rupinder Pal Singh will form India’s wall of defense along with Harmanpreet Singh, Varun Kumar, Kothajit Singh, Gurinder Singh and Amit Rohidas, while the goalpost will be guarded by India’s experienced goalkeeper PR Sreejesh who made a strong comeback into the team during the New Zealand Tour where he displayed some exceptional goalkeeping abilities. He will be backed by the 22-year-old talent Suraj Karkera who played a crucial part in the team's good show in Bhubaneswar last year in his senior counterpart’s absence. 
 
 
 
 
 
 India’s midfield will see skipper Manpreet Singh in the lead role, ably supported by the experience of Chinglensana along with young blood in Sumit and Vivek Sagar Prasad. The Indian attack will feature a lethal combination between experience and youth as SV Sunil, Akashdeep Singh, Mandeep Singh, Lalit Kumar Upadhyay, Gurjant Singh and Dilpreet Singh are all in the team.
 
 Dilpreet Singh and Vivek Sagar Prasad who made their international debut during the New Zealand tour have been rewarded with this opportunity for a good show where the duo scored in important games.
 
 “This team has been picked keeping in mind the team’s performance in the previous tournaments since the Asia Cup 2017. We have tried out different combinations in the past events and we believe this will be the most effective combination for the Gold Coast 2018 XXI Commonwealth Games,” asserted Chief Coach Sjoerd Marijne.
 
 He further stated that the team has a winning mindset and will look to aim for the best in the quadrennial event. “This team has been improving with every match and while we could not produce a podium finish at the 27th Sultan Azlan Shah Cup 2018, it will have no influence on how we are going to play in Australia and we will be going there with a mindset to win," said the 43-year-old Dutch Coach. 
 
 In the previous two outings at the Commonwealth Games, India has finished second behind Australia. Skipper Manpreet Singh, however, is confident of turning the tables this time. “Our first aim is to do well in the group stage because we have some strong teams in our Pool. It’s extremely crucial to top our table and make the Semis but if we do meet Australia in the knockouts, I believe we will be up for a strong challenge.” said the 25-year-old Manpreet Singh. 
 
 
 
 
 
 1. Sreejesh Parattu Raveendran
 
 2. Suraj Karkera
 
 
 
 
 3. Rupinder Pal Singh
 
 4. Harmanpreet Singh
 
 5. Varun Kumar
 
 6. Kothajit Singh Kadangbam
 
 7. Gurinder Singh
 
 8. Amit Rohidas
 
 
 
 9. Manpreet Singh(C)
 
 10. Chinglensana Singh Kangujam (VC)
 
 11. Sumit
 
 12. Vivek Sagar Prasad
 
 
 
 13. Akashdeep Singh
 
 14. Sunil Sowmarpet Vitalacharya 
 
 15. Gurjant Singh
 
 16. Mandeep Singh
 
 17. Lalit Kumar Upadhyay
 
 18. Dilpreet Singh
 
 
