NEW DELHI: This technique of   trafficking is fast catching up across the globe, but there is little investigators can do about detecting cocaine in liquid form. When the latex condoms are ingested, they resemble intestines or gas lumps; and when sprayed on clothes they smell like any other perfume.

 This   has made it impossible for the drug to be detected by X-ray machines at airports and cartels and narco-terrorists are quickly adopting this method. The only foolproof way to detect   is through a CT scan or other advanced imaging tools, sources said.
 
 The trend, which originated in South America in 2011, has one major risk: high casualty rate for carriers. This has stopped drug mules from making it a common mode of smuggling. “Many times, the consignment wrapped in condoms and swallowed by a mule bursts or leaks in the stomach leading to instant death of the carrier,” said a policeman.
 
 Also, only the big cartels in Colombia, Brazil and Mexico are opting for this method as it escalates costs significantly. 
 
  
  
 
 “The cocaine has to be first dissolved in solvents and converted to a liquid. The cartel then has to find a carrier ready to take the risk of travelling with it in his stomach. The receiver has to convert it back to powder form using chemicals to distribute among users,” the officer added.
 
 A source said that the cost almost doubles with this process. However, users are ready to pay extra for pure cocaine, which is extremely addictive and gives a different “high”.
 
 Cocaine spray is even more expensive and least popular as it results in loss of the drug when it is retrieved from the clothes with the help of special chemicals. It is opted for on routes that have very strict security measures. Recently, sleuths in the US gave special training to sniffer dogs to spot passengers with cocaine sprayed on clothes.
 
 Asked what Delhi’s Narcotics Control Bureau plans to do to combat this menace, an investigator said that they may have problems detecting the drug, but they can always rely on intelligence on suspects.
 
 
