Panaji: Former   FC manager   took inspiration from Mahatma Gandhi when he guided the club to an unlikely place in the final of the   in 2008.
 
  Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich put his faith in his friend and the then director of football when he showed the door to the Special One in September 2007. Chelsea fans never took to the Israeli manager but despite his unpopularity, he still managed to get the club back on track.
  
  Chelsea finished second only to Manchester United by two points, and had it not been for captain John Terry’s slip during penalties in the Champions League final against Manchester United, Chelsea would have won the Holy Grail.
  
  “Mahatma Gandhi is a fine example to the world how you can achieve things in a good way. He is among the three people I have admired all my life,” Grant, now coach of   FC in the Indian Super League, told TOI in an exclusive interview on Thursday.
  
  His other influences include American civil rights hero Martin Luther King and former Egyptian president Anwar Sadat, who fought for peace and was assassinated.
  
  “I’ve read a lot about Mahatma Gandhi since I was a kid. I’ve been to places in South Africa where he went and (also) met (Nelson) Mandela. He was a modest man who decided to fight for India’s independence without war. He followed a different path and took decisions which were not popular.
  
  “I know what it is to take decisions when everyone opposes you. I was in the same position when I took over at Chelsea. I had lot of supporters who were against me; the media was completely against me. I know what it is to stick to your ways, even when everyone is against you. I learnt that from (the) Mahatma; he was unique,” said Grant.
  
  Grant said Chelsea were in terrible shape when he was asked to take over from Mourinho in September 2007.
  
  “In Chelsea and (later) Portsmouth, I took over a team which was completely destroyed. The media said Chelsea played ugly football, the atmosphere was not good and they were losing games. But in my time, nobody said we played ugly. We played fantastic football. We played differently to what was played earlier (under Mourinho). People from inside the club didn’t believe me (that we could go far in the Champions League). We almost won the Champions League. That was a big, big achievement,” said the 62-year-old.
  
  Despite his success with Chelsea, Grant was sacked at the end of season and eventually succeeded by Luiz Felipe Scolari, who also lost his job before the end of season. This constant sacking of coaches, Grant feels, has done the club more harm than good as Chelsea have been left without an identity of their own.
  
  “We played fantastic football. It was a good base for the future. I am upset that Chelsea didn’t continue in the same way (after I left),” he said.
  
  Chelsea have had 10 managers since Grant left in 2008, and could have a new manager in place at the start of next season if, as expected, Antonio Conte turns his back on the club and returns to Italy.
  
  
  
