Nagpur: The call for Maharashtra   affected operations of schools and colleges across the city with quite a few either deciding to remain closed or call it a day earlier than scheduled. Some colleges were forced to remain open because of practical exam conducted by Nagpur University. Some students missed their exam because of the bandh.

 Urvashi Yashroy, director of Tuli Group of educational institutes, said, "There was very low attendance today with lots of frantic calls from parents. Classes couldn’t be conducted as parents wanted to collect their wards early."
 
 Praveen Tiwari, trustee of Central India Public School, said, “After getting news of violence at various places we decided to keep the school closed today for safety reasons. It was the opening day after winter break. So many important things got affected.” Aruna Rao, principal of NK Academy, said, “Due to panic calls from parents, we had to shut the school at 11.30am though there was no untoward incident.”
 
 Anil Pardhi, deputy director of education, said, “Some schools remained closed today after a mutual agreement between parents and principal.” He added schools could decide on their own as area specific issues were best known to them. 
 
 Wednesday was supposed to be the first day of school for many but with a majority of school buses and school vans remaining off road, parents decided to play it safe. 
 
 In colleges, attendance was affected to a great extent and only those who had exam had turned up. Colleges where no exams were scheduled had announced a holiday a day in advance.
 
 Tirpude Group of Institutions had declared Wednesday a holiday a day earlier. Tirpude Institute of Management Education director Lalit Khullar said, “Safety of our students and staff is important to us. It was uncertain if the bandh would be peaceful or violent so we took this precautionary step.”
 
 Vice-principal Rina Saha of Mohta Science College at Sakkardara said only students who had practical exams were asked to stay back while rest were asked to go home. “The situation at the squares near the college was getting tense. It was university exam, so we couldn’t call it off. But others were given a day off.”
 
 Some students from Dharmpeth Science College said they missed their exam because of protest in their area. College officials said such students would be accommodated in other batch as the exam are conducted over three to four days.
 
 Hislop College didn’t announce holiday but students said the attendance was low and no classes were held. Vasantrao Naik Institute of Social Sciences, located near Samvidhan Square, the hub of protests, too didn’t declare any holiday but many of its students remained absent.
 
 Nagpur University had to close down its postgraduate department following huge protest by students. Registrar Puran Meshram said following the protest, it was decided to call off all classes. “Teaching was stopped but administrative works went on as usual,” he said. 
 
 
