GURUGRAM: The   has nearly 60   in the city, including in the upscale DLF 1 and 3 and the   precinct of Udyog Vihar, on Friday and Saturday. The civic body also issued notices to owners of other properties to clear property tax dues within 24 hours to avoid the same fate.

 According to the MCG officials, the   drive will continue in the coming days until owners of all such properties make the pending property tax payments. 
 
 “There are nearly 50,000 properties in zone 3 on which property taxes are pending, and our efforts will continue until we get the dues from all these property owners,” said YS Gupta, joint commissioner, MCG. Gurugram is divided into four zones by MCG.
 
 Most of the properties which have been sealed are in non-residential or   premises. 
 
 Gupta said that they had started with commercial properties and will refrain from sealing residential properties, unless necessary. “Even among the residential properties, we will target only the ones running commercial operations. The sealed properties will be permanently closed down if the property owners fail to pay the dues in time,” said Gupta.
 
 In DLF 1, 30 properties were sealed or got notices on Friday. A total of five teams of MCG set out to cover more properties on Saturday. 
 
 The MCG officials carried point of sale (POS) machines, in case the defaulters wanted to clear their dues during the drive. 
 
 Additionally, a total of 30 industrial units have been sealed in Udyog Vihar zone 2, on Friday and Saturday. The total property tax amount pending on these units is over Rs 15 lakh.
 
 The issue of property tax has been a bone of contention between industrialists and government agencies as the former has often complained of paying dual charges - property tax and maintenance charges to Haryana State Industrial & Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC). 
 
 MCG has been quite aggressive in terms of property tax collection and after a slowdown for over a month, multiple property tax collection drives have been launched yet again across the city. Teams have been assigned to conduct door-to-door property tax collection.
 
 
