HYDERABAD: The proposed redevelopment of railway stations that finance minister   talked about in the Union budget this year is posing a big challenge for   ( ).

 In tune with the FM’s announcement about the project during last year’s budget, SCR officials said they shortlisted 37 stations in six different zones for redevelopment under the public-private partnership ( ) mode in which the private agencies and not Railways were to fund the redevelopment projects.
 
 
 However, SCR’s bid to redevelop its chosen stations projects failed to take off because private agencies are not evincing any interest in the project. In SCR, the project was to have kick-started with two ‘A1’ category stations like   and  , from which Railways are mopping up more than ?60 crore revenue each annually.
 
  
  
 
 SCR has already been asked to ramp up facilities at railway stations to remodel them on the lines of airports. The amenities that the government wants the new age railway stations to sport include ramps for elderly, earmarked parking lots, nonslippery walkways from parking lots to station buildings, earmarked toilets, drinking water taps for wheelchair-bound passengers, Wi-Fi connection, ‘May I help you’ kiosks and trolley path.
 
 “For each of the two stations, we floated tenders thrice, but it did not elicit any response. Perhaps, private parties, who had been invited to bid for the tender, felt that ramping up railway stations will not be a profitable venture for them,” said a senior SCR official.
 
 “Our plan to redevelop 37 stations did not fructify last year because it hinged on private agencies funding them. But it’s not clear whether Railways want the project to be carried out in PPP mode like the previous year. If it’s a PPP model again and if private agencies don’t come forward, the project will be stuck this year too.”
 
 However, Hyderabad, Kacheguda, Tirupati, Guntur, Kazipet and   feature among remaining stations chosen for redevelopment, apart from Secunderabad and Vijayawada, officials said. Three stations like Lingampalli, Cherlapalli and Nagalapalli are also in need of an overhaul before these start functioning as new terminals. The railway board has drawn up an action plan to refurbish 600 major railway stations across India to cater to the upwardly mobile passengers, who are more comfortable taking flights for long-distance trips. “Today, railways are facing cutthroat competition from airlines and it’s the need of the hour to spruce up facilities at railway platforms,” said an official.
 
