Chandigarh: Haryana assembly witnessed uproar on Monday over the issue of cash being offered for the post of the Pehowa municipal council president. The issue allegedly involves the kin of the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) chairman.

 Speaker Kanwar Pal Gujjar ordered a 50-minute break by adjourning the assembly before sending out the Congress and INLD MLAs out of the house following noisy scenes over the matter.
 
 The issue relates to an audio clip where allegedly Pehowa MC president Ashok Singla claims to have allegedly paid cash to claim the civic body’s top post. The audio clip has gone viral. One of the persons in the conversation, allegedly Singla, is heard talking about the payment of Rs 75 lakh out of which Rs 45 lakh had allegedly gone to the kin of HSSC chairman.
 
 This issue came up in the assembly with Pehowa   and deputy leader of opposition Jaswinder Singh Sandhu of INLD sought action against HSSC chairman Bharat Bhushan Bharti. Entire opposition united attacked the ruling party MLAs and even the assurances given by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar too failed to pacify legislators of both INLD and Congress.
 
 Khattar assured a probe in the matter. On the issue of immediately removing Bharti, the CM said, “He has been on this post for the past over three years and is doing his job responsibly. We have not seen anything wrong in his working in the commission. We will not take action against him whether you allow to run the house or not,” he told the opposition MLAs.
 
 Ruckus in the assembly started at 3 pm when the speaker announced about the zero hour. Sandhu rose from his seat for the calling attention motion. Speaker Gujjar had dismissed Sandhu’s request by saying that it had come after the deadline set for the moving for the motion.
 
 Sandhu was the first to be named and escorted out by the marshals. As the leader of opposition Abhay Singh Chautala raised objection, INLD MLAs joined him and raised the anti-government slogans in the house. They raised the slogans and walked into the well forcing the speaker to name them.
 
 Soon after the INLD MLAs’ exit, former speaker and senior Congress legislator R S Kadian too raised the issue. Kadian sought withdrawal of action against the INLD members. It was followed by commotion from Congress MLAs who too were named and sent out of the assembly.
 
 Earlier, the assembly session had opened with the protest from INLD MLAs outside. The house remained disrupted during the question hour as well. Congress legislature party (CLP) leader Kiran Choudhry rued her question related to cow deaths being dropped by the speaker. Similarly, INLD too alleged that their listed questions were not taken up.
 
 
