CHANDIGARH:   forest department has sent three cases to chief minister   for issuing a charge sheet to IFS officer Harsh Kumar.

 On January 30, the officer was transferred from the post of chief conservator of forests (hills) to chief conservator of forests (IT) on the chief minister’s directions for passing alleged controversial orders on the implementation of the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA) in Mohali. However, the state government had on February 2 issued a fresh notification, extending the PLPA in 15 villages of Kandi area in Mohali district on the basis of a study report by various agencies, which termed it as ‘severe erosion’ area.
 
 Forest department sources said that the IFS officer was being charge-sheeted for issuing letters to developers earlier this year, stating that the PLPA notification would come to an end on a specific date after which they could start construction in that area. Another case pertains to the alleged grant of permission to a person in Jayanti Majri village of Mohali district for felling trees on private land despite National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) ban. A third file received by the chief minister’s office pertains to the inquiry being carried out by Harsh in a case related to felling of around 24,000 eucalyptus, sheesham and kikar trees for widening of Bist-Doab canal during the SAD-BJP regime.
 
 Earlier, the forest department was also deliberating on departmental action against Harsh for regularising around 33 daily-wage employees, including those over 60 years of age, during his tenure as conservator of forests (research and training). Initially, forest minister   had reportedly returned the files for issuing a charge sheet against the officer, stating that the case was pending before the NGT. But the forest department again moved these files and the minister had now forwarded it to the chief minister last week.
 
 However, the IFS officer told TOI that he stood by his decisions. “I had issued three letters regarding the PLPA. I had ordered that on a certain date the PLPA would come to an end and developers could start development work after that. But in the second para I had said that in case there is any other act applicable on them, they should abide by it. I had also mentioned that this is as per a high court judgment,” he added. Harsh said this case was pending before the NGT and its act stated that till a case was pending, the state government could not start civil proceedings against him.
 
 In case of illegal felling of around 24,000 trees, the officer said that he would soon submit his inquiry report and the vigilance bureau was also probing the case. Harsh claimed that he had questioned how trees were auctioned at 25% less rate by the forest corporation. Regarding grant of permission for felling of trees to a person at Jayanti Majri village, Harsh said that he had already apologised before the NGT for issuing a letter without land demarcation and the NGT had closed the issue.
 
 On employees’ regularization decision, Harsh said that, “I stand by my regularization decision as there was no stay from any court. Since the forest department cancelled my decision, the affected employees moved the high court and the court has protected their salaries as regular employees.”
 
 
