NEW DELHI: Wrist-spinners are in great demand in T20 cricket these days, and none more so than Kiwi leggie  . Ish moved to Auckland at a very young age from a small town called Khanna, about 45 kms away from Ludhiana. The 25-year-old made his debut for New Zealand back in 2013 but it’s in T20s that he has found his true calling. 

 
 
 
 In 26 T20Is, Ish has 36 wickets at an average of less than 20, with an economy rate below 8. The combination of these factors briefly made him the No. 1 T20I bowler in the world. After initially getting snubbed in the IPL auctions, Ish finally got a call-up from the   just a few weeks back. Ish tells TOI about his IPL experience so far. 
 
 
 
 
 A surprise call-up is a good way to put it. It was just a week into the off-season and I had just got free after playing some Test cricket, planning on how I was going to improve. Then this opportunity to play for Rajasthan Royals came around, took about week from the phone call and me being here. It’s been a blur for me so far, playing against my national captain ( ), it’s been a surreal experience so far.
 
 
 He’s the greatest legspinner the game has seen. I am trying to pick his brains as much as I can. I think it’s balancing that with what I want to do with my own bowling — whether it is this tournament or improving myself in the future. I just need to keep getting better. Rubbing shoulders with Shane Warne is always going to be great!
 
 
 The dynamics of the IPL is a bit different — four foreign players in each side, about eight per squad — which makes it unique. The marketing and the hype around it is extreme. The skill level is also improving every year — batters are hitting more sixes and bowlers are bringing in more variations. It’s a fast-moving competition, improving cricket at a very fast rate. Youngsters like   are playing incredible shots at 18-19 years of age.
 
 
 In the T20 format, it is the balance of defence with attack and finding the right lines to bowl to different players as well as doing more homework. You have to shut down one side of the field and in T20s I can do that quite well. I am only 25 years old, but as I have progressed I have got a lot more control over my bowling.
 
 
 In this day and age, T20 is a batsman’s game and people are starting to understand that picking wickets is really crucial. I think that’s why captains are starting to back their wrist spinners more and more. They are happy to let go 8, 9 or 10 an over if they are able to pick up two or three wickets. That acceptance has come that captains are prepared to leak runs as long as they can get wickets in the middle overs.
 
 
 We had a few days break and used 2-3 days break to go to Punjab and meet some of my relatives like my grandmother, aunts and uncles. I visited Ludhiana, it was a nice change. Two days to get away from the grind of cricket and spend some quality time your family.
 
