For any students’ union in  , the biggest highlight of the year is their college fest. Each union tries to deliver a   that becomes a talking point among the students. While some colleges end up organising an almost glitch-free fest, for others, things do not go as planned. The two cases of mismanagement with the same artist –   – this fest season have not only raised the question on security, but have also left many thinking why such cases happen in the first place when the union is already aware of the popularity of the artist.

  
  
 Though most of the colleges make sure they do not invite an artist which the other colleges’ unions are approaching, sometimes, there are one or two artists who end up becoming the highlight of the season. This year, it was Parmish Verma who was invited to three DU colleges. One of the singer’s performances was cancelled due to miscommunication between the singer and the management, and the remaining two were cut midway because the crowd went out of control. Other fests with artists like  ,   and   performing at different colleges were hosted without major goof-ups. Union members and students of these colleges tell us that a lot depends on the funds and the artist invited. Mismanagement can happen anywhere, but the union has to make sure that they have the situation under control if barricades are broken by the crowd.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 In March, Parmish Verma was invited to perform at Maitreyi College’s fest Rhapsody. Even before he reached the venue, the crowd had broken one of the barricades near the stage. The authorities were forced to keep entry open for all around 2.30pm. Later that month, at Kirori Mal College’s fest Renaissance – where Parmish was supposed to be performing – we found that there was no security check and almost everybody was allowed to enter the fest without showing their identity cards. Lack of security was one of the reasons why many outsiders had entered the college and gathered near the stage area, and eventually climbed on to the stage and started dancing on the barricades, which made Parmish leave the gig midway. Other DU colleges say that their union makes sure they only allow students with identity cards and outsiders with passes only. “We do not let anybody in during fests unless they have passes or identity cards,” says Abhay Malla, a member of the organising committee of SRCC’s fest Crossroads. Prabal Khatri, president of Sri Venkateswara College, adds, “We make sure that we only let students with valid ID cards enter. Earlier, we used to give out passes, but some people would get those photocopied and enter the college, so we discontinued with that.”
 A co-ed college can have only one security check area, but at girls’ colleges, managing the crowd is a task. “You cannot deny the fact that one of the reasons why people turn up for fests at girls’ colleges is because it is a girls’ college. We know the strength of our college, and we give three passes to each student, so once we calculate that, we know how much crowd we will be expecting at the fest. We have a proper entry system through checking ID cards, and if we think that the ground is overcrowded before the gig, we close our gates before the set time. These are decisions that a union has to take. As far as the sponsors or stall people are concerned, we give identity cards to them as well. The artist who is going to perform also sends us a list of all the people who would be accompanying him,” Amita Yadav, president of LSR, tells us.
 
  
  Parmish Verma at KMC's fest
 
 
 
 When Amit Trivedi performed at Hindu College’s fest Mecca this year, the performance was not only appreciated because of the singer, but because the management controlled a crowd that was the “biggest that DU had ever seen.” “We can compromise on the celebrity, but not on security. Our and SRCC’s fests are able to collect decent funds and we ensure that a fair amount is spent on security. This year, we had around 70-80 bouncers at the fest and double barricading, so that the crowd isn’t able to push them. Our fest was also clashing with Hans Raj College’s fest and there were no barricades available, so we got barricades at the last minute from India Gate. We had also decided that nobody from our team will go near the stage area, hum hi nahi gaye toh doosre kaise aate?,” says Vasu Saha, Finance Minister of Hindu College Parliament.
 “We had informed the local police about our fest days in advance. We had told them that we would be needing security because ours is the biggest fest of South Campus. During Armaan Malik’s performance, a barricade was broken, but within minutes, the police pushed the crowd back and there was no ruckus. Problems can happen anywhere, but you need to know how to handle it. We also have an ambulance and a fire brigade ready for any emergency,” says Prabal.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The popularity of the singer is also a huge factor. “Many a times, mismanagement happens because of the unruly crowd and it partly depends on the artist. Artists like Benny Dayal and Amit Trivedi will definitely attract a different crowd from someone like Parmish Verma,” says Abhay Malla. Raavi Jotwani, president of Jesus and Mary College, adds, “Our college is also in Chanakya Puri and we had the same event manager as Maitreyi College. We had the same barricading, but our artist was different and we made sure that the security check was on point. There were enough police officers on ground during the fest. I don’t think it is the fault of the union (of Maitreyi College), but when you know what your artist is really popular, it is always advisable to take preventive measures.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 During Parmish Verma’s performance at Maitreyi, there were many students who got suffocated in the crowd. The union tried to help but the crowd was more interested in clicking photos and making videos of the singer. At KMC, on the other hand, the students or outsiders were ready to risk their lives by climbing on the speakers and dancing on the barricades. Despite repeated announcements by the singer asking the students to not push each other, the fans did not listen. “I think when the situation goes out of hand, the union never knows what to do because these are also students at the end of the day. When I saw my college ground during Parmish Verma’s performance, I was shocked. The incident was enough to make anyone sick or unconscious if they were stuck in that crowd,” said Chandni*, a third-year student from Maiteryi College.
 Aman*, a second-year student of KMC, says, “What happened at our college was unfortunate. I was shocked to see that people were ready to risk their lives for enjoyment of some minutes. Nobody wants to organise a bad fest, but when you have crowd like that, what else do you expect?”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The management from both the colleges accept that nobody expects to organise a bad fest but incidents like these are in nobody’s hands. “Any fest where the college invites a celebrity who has a huge fan following, there are chances of chaos. Out-of-control crowd or miscommunication between the artist and the students’ union not only ruin the image of the college, but also affect the image of that star. That is why, before inviting a big celebrity, the college administration and students’ union should ensure proper arrangements,” says Pooja Sehrawat, president of Maitreyi College.
 A student from the organising committee of KMC adds, “We did not expect such a huge crowd. In my opinion, everything was right, but we had to close the gig because of overcrowding.”
 
  
  
  
  There were students dancing on barricades and many got suffocated at the two Parmish Verma concerts at Maitreyi and Kirori Mal colleges
 
 
 (*Name changed on request)
 With inputs from Niharika.Lal@timesgroup.com
 
 
  
 
 
