PUNE: The English philosopher and researcher on religion Paul Brunton- whose real name was   Hurst- came in search of an India in the 1930s which was mostly hidden and mostly exotic for the average British visitor mostly poor, mystical, of saints, and cult leaders.

 In his 1934 memoir A Search in Secret India, he recounted conversations he had with Meher Baba, and that took him to the dirtier, seedy parts of the Pune  . 
 
 He met the old Sufi mystic, Hazrat Babajan, the wizened old lady who in a small shelter that her poor followers built, who, as   recounted, lived among poverty and squalor, hidden away from the glitz and glamour of the Cantonment. Looking at all the historical accounts that exist of the Pune Cantonment ever since its establishment, the most comprehensive ones were written after independence, beyond what was published in the Presidency of Bombay gazettes year after year.
 
 There were accounts like the one by Brunton, but his description of the Pune Cantonment — the Charbawdi slums — were mainly side notes in accounts of a different subject. The first official attempt towards a comprehensive account of the Pune Cantonment happened in the 1890s, when Lt Col ED Newnham-Smith, who happened to be the  , published an account of the land-usage in the area under his jurisdiction.
 
 It was called The   Lands, and part of the report was utilized in a pan-India report on tackling plague in major cities, by tracking land use and cases in hospitals. A land survey was later done in 1900 by one CN Mehta, but few records have been found of that.
 
 In 1953, Muhammad Hashim Moledina, who used to be a member of both the Pune and Khadki Cantonment Boards at various points of time, partnered with MN Merchant, a professional civil engineer, to write A History of the Poona Cantonment, 1818-1953, in what   described as their effort to properly tell people the workings of the Cantonment over the many years it has been existence.
 
 Beyond what Moledina wrote in terms of history and other technicalities, even the typical 1950s advertisements on the book’s pages — from small hotels, snack-and-cold-drink restaurants, life insurance, tailors, and even bookies asking people to place attractive bets on the Pune race course — were showing of the new and free spirit that entrepreneurs had after independence, bold, brash, creative.
 
 Moledina divided the roughly-120 page book into sections of general facilities, landmarks, a bit of history and heritage — the garrison church, or the St Patrick’s Church, the monsoon races at the race course sponsored by the governor, and even the entertainment — clubs, pubs, and cinemas that were, and still are, a part of the Cantonment and its people’s lives.
 
 Parts of it are also descriptive of what does not remain— a jail in what is now the  , or a gibbet on St Vincent Street, part of it later became a Jesuit missionary’s bungalow and then a well-known school, the St Vincent’s. Moledina’s book is also the main source of information regarding the civic administration of the Cantonment in the Company years and in the 90 years of Crown-rule. 
 
 The all-powerful Cantonment Magistrate — known colloquially as the Bazaar Master, or the first natives who were elected to the erstwhile Cantonment Committee — the quasi-civilian administration, all find a place in Moledina’s account.
 
 
