Today is a dark day. The   has left us forever. The news of Sridevi’s death was a bolt from the blue—there she was, a few days back, accepting awards for her performance, thanking her fans and family for everything and sharing beautiful moments of her life on her social media account. 

 While the world is mourning the death of one of India’s first female superstars, let us not forget that Sridevi was much more than that. She was the perfect mother, the loving wife, who left no stones unturned to make sure that she was always there when her daughters   and   and her husband   needed her.
 
  
  
 The shy actress made her debut as a child artiste at a tender age of four. But as a mother of two, she was very protective about her daughters. The actress had expressed her concern in an interview that she was initially reluctant to let Janhvi work in the film industry. However, for the doting mother, her daughters’ happiness mattered the most and she finally gave in to Janhvi’s wishes to follow her mother’s footsteps. 
 
  
  
 
 When asked about Janhvi’s debut in 
 , the glamorous actress had said, "It is a great feeling. I am excited, nervous, happy and concerned, as any mother would be. But she is a very hard working and very dedicated girl." 
 
 Like a doting mother, the late actress had accompanied her daughter on the first day of her shoot. Sridevi had been a constant companion to Janhvi in Udaipur, Rajasthan, where the first schedule of
  was shot in December last. 
 
  
  
 
 The late actress had taken a break from acting after the superhit movie 
  because she wanted to focus on her marriage. She did that when she was at the peak of her career—a decision which many would have faltered to make. Away from the limelight, she found her happiness in her two beautiful daughters. 
 
 Years passed by but her fans never grew weaker in number waiting for the diva to return. Sridevi made a comeback in 2012 only when her daughters had grown-up. She stole our hearts again as the shy and meek housewife Shashi in 
 . Later she starred in the movie 
 , where she played the role of a unstoppable mother who avenged her wronged daughter.
 
  
  
 
 In real life too she was the perfect mother and mentor, who made sure that her daughters had the best of everything—be it in their professional life or personal. She is the perfect definition of a super woman, an inspiration for all mothers and working women. Rest in peace, Sridevi!
 
