NEW DELHI: Most parts of north India can expect a searing hot summer this year with average mean temperatures remaining more than a degree above normal, the   said in its countrywide hot weather outlook for April, May and June on Sunday.

 
 While north India is likely to see the highest temperature deviations - which also indicates drier-than-usual weather in that region -  's outlook says the average seasonal temperatures over most subdivisions of the country could be above normal. The regions with slightly lower-than-normal projected temperatures are eastern, east-central and southern parts of the country, the outlook stated.
 
 "North India is expected to be mainly dry with clear skies and anti-cyclonic winds that raise temperatures The higher than normal temperatures there seem to be linked with global warming signals," said  , head of IMD's long-range forecasting division.
 
 "Maximum temperatures in south and east India could be closer to normal, indicating cloudiness and good pre-monsoon showers in these regions," Pai said.
 
 Although the upcoming season in the north will be hotter than normal, the forecast added that the season's average temperatures in most subdivisions are likely to be less than what was seen last year. The season is likely to see the usual number of heat waves over the core heat wave (HW) zone of the country, the department said although there's a 38% probability of above-normal heat wave conditions.
 
 The HW zone covers states of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, UP, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Orissa and Telangana, as well as meteorological subdivisions of Marathawada, Vidarbha, Madhya Maharashtra and coastal Andhra Pradesh.
 
 The forecast said average maximum temperatures - which regulate daytime conditions - are expected to be higher than normal by one degree or more in J&K, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi. They are likely to be between one and 0.5 degrees higher than normal in Uttarakhand, west Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. The remaining subdivisions are likely to experience near normal maximum temperature anomalies.
 
 Night temperatures too are projected to be higher than one degree above normal in the northern states of Punjab, Haryana (including Delhi and Chandigarh, west Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.
 
