CHENNAI: In what appears to be another irregularity in appointments at  , the interview marks of a professor of Vaishnavism appointed in 2014 have been increased by clear overwriting which tilted the scales in his favour.

 The document, a copy of which is with TOI, shows Professor  , currently head-in-charge of Vaishnavism department, scored 69 marks in the interview. A close look at the marksheet shows he was initially awarded no marks under the sub-head ‘research publications’. However, this was altered to ‘10’ and the total altered from ‘59’ to ‘69’, the highest among the seven candidates who applied. In violation of government convention, no official has signed on the column where the overwriting was made.
 
 Also, his application accessed by TOI shows he did not have any publications at the time and hence was given no marks for that. The documents were sourced by S Anuradha, a resident of Coimbatore.
 
 The appointment was made during the tenure of vice-chancellor R Thandavan. It rocked the syndicate when it was brought up for approval, with four members reportedly tendering dissent. Dayanidhi’s appointment was confirmed in November 2016.
 
 In the same interview, A Murugesan secured 62 marks, three more than what Dayanidhi’s score ought to have been. Moreover, three subheads have been left blank for another candidate LC Thirumalai, nor is a ‘-’ sign entered in those columns to indicate no marks.
 
 Besides, Dayanidhi has not passed Class X and XII till date. He did the Prak-shiromani and Vyakarana Shiromani traditional courses before doing an MA in Sanskrit.   replies by University of Madras and   show these courses are not equivalent to Class X or XII public exams. When contacted by TOI, Dayanidhi said these were traditional courses and there were government orders to show their equivalence. However, the university does not accept this degree, as shown by its RTI reply.
 
 As for the marksheet, he accsepted that he did not have any books or publications in national and international journals then, but said he was unaware of the overwriting in the document. “I did not lobby with anyone for the post,” he said. University officials have been apprised of these documents and said that they would inquire into the issue.
 
