NEW DELHI: India is taking a strong 225-member contingent to the 2018   at   and badminton, shooting, boxing are some of the disciplines where a rich haul of medals is expected. There’s a good mix of youth and experience amongst the Indian ranks. Here we look at some of the athletes/disciplines who are among the favourites to bring glory to the country:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 A vastly improved player since the last Commonwealth Games in 2014, when she won bronze in Glasgow, the queen of Indian badminton   heads into this year’s Gold Coast   as one of the favourites to reach the podium again — but this time with the colour being gold.
 
 Currently ranked third in the BWF ratings for women’s singles, Sindhu is the biggest bet from India’s CWG contingent given her status and performances over the past two years. Despite news on Tuesday that Sindhu had suffered a sprain in her right ankle while practicing at the P Gopichand Academy in Hyderabad, there is no immediate threat to her participation in the Gold Coast Games.
 
 Sindhu’s rise to worldwide fame came in 2016, when she won a landmark silver medal at the Rio Olympics - the biggest prize in the history of Indian badminton, surpassing Saina Nehwal’s bronze in London. Following the surprise exit of Saina in her second match in Rio, it had fallen upon Sindhu to carry the hopes of Indian badminton at the Olympics. In her first Games, Sindhu played some incredible badminton to become the first Indian in an Olympics badminton final.
 
 Sindhu’s rise to worldwide fame came in 2016, when she won a landmark silver medal at the Rio Olympics - the biggest prize in the history of Indian badminton, surpassing Saina Nehwal’s bronze in London. Following the surprise exit of Saina in her second match in Rio, it had fallen upon Sindhu to carry the hopes of Indian badminton at the Olympics. In her first Games, Sindhu played some incredible badminton to become the first Indian in an Olympics badminton final.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Sakshi Malik, who in 2016 became the first woman wrestler from India to bag an Olympic medal, enters her second Commonwealth Games as the undisputed leader of the women’s contingent - and with hopes high of improving on her silver from four years ago in Glasgow.
 
 It was at the 2014 CWG that Sakshi won her first international medal, finishing second to Nigeria’s Aminat Adeyini to take home a silver in her maiden appearance at the quadrennial games. Further success followed in 2015 when she won a bronze medal at the Asian Championships, but it was on August 18, 2016 that nearly two weeks of frustration, disappointment and hurt at the Rio de Janeiro Olympics came to an end when Sakshi became only the fourth female athlete from the country to stand atop a podium at the pinnacle of world sport.
 
 At the age of 23, the Haryana grappler earned a dramatic come-from-behind win over Kyrgysztan's Aisuluu Tynybekova to script history. It was India's 25th medal at the Olympic Games since independence in 1947.
 
 Now 25, Sakshi has the weight of expectations on her shoulders ahead of the 2018 Commonwealth Games to be held at Gold Coast City, in the southeast of the Australian state of Queensland from April 4-15. Coming off a reasonable 2017, in which she won a 60kg silver medal at the Asian Wrestling Championship in New Delhi and 62kg golds at the Commonwealth Wrestling Championships in Johannesburg and the National Wrestling Championships, she should be in a good frame of mind heading into her second CWG.
 
 Earlier this month, at the Asian Wrestling Championships, Sakshi won bronze in the 62kg freestyle category after getting the better of Kazakhstan’s Ayaulum Kassymova 10-7.
 
 Sakshi, who began training when she was 12, now stands as an icon for Indian women’s athletes and what makes her story even more remarkable is where she comes from. Her bronze medal from Rio was as a major victory over sexism in one of India's most conservative states, Haryana, where women have long been treated as second-class citizens and ‘honour killings’ and sex-selective abortions are rife.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 High praise has become synonymous with javelin-thrower Neeraj Chopra, at the age of 20. Former India athlete and World Championships bronze medallist Anju Bobby George termed him the most promising young Indian athlete today, while his former coach Garry Calvert termed him a “once-in-a-generation-talent". And truth be told, it is hard to argue against either of those statements.
 
 Chopra's showing in the last one year has escalated the youngster to the same platform, if not above, as country's elite athletes.
 From the Indian athletic contingent that departed for the 2018 Commonwealth Games to be held at Gold Coast City, in the southeast of the Australian state of Queensland from April 4-15, to sharpen their skills and acclimatise to the conditions, Chopra is expected to lead the quest for a medal.
 
 It was only earlier this month that Chopra officially qualified for the quadrennial games after hurling a spear to a distance of 85.94m in his sixth attempt at the Federations Cup senior national athletics Championships in Patiala. Chopra had previously met the qualifying standard during the Indian GP, but the Athletics Federation of India had made it mandatory for athletes to match their performances at the Federation Cup.
 
 Benefitting from his three-month off-season stint in Offenburg, Germany, Chopra would not only be looking to win a medal but also hope to better his personal best of 86.48m from 2016, which remains the junior world record. Last year, Chopra’s 85.63m effort in Patiala was his best of the season. He won the Asian Championships gold in Bhubaneswar and took part in three Diamond League series events, finishing fifth in one of them. But he disappointed at the London World Championships, failing to make it to the final round after a best effort of 82.26m.
 
 Chopra was in Offenberg until the first week of February and bagged silver at a competition where he hit 82.80m to finish second behind world champion Johannes Vetter of Germany. Chopra also made a strong return to the domestic competition circuit at the Indian Grand Prix where he outclassed the field to claim gold medal at the Run Adam Indian Grand Prix-1. Chopra threw a distance of 82.88m at the National Institute of Sports to finish well ahead of Vipin Kasana's 80.04m that bagged him a silver while Amit Kumar took the bronze with a 77.33m throw.
 
 "My target this year to consistently throw above 85m mark and do better than my personal best. I feel I can do that at Gold Coast and win a medal for my country. That will be my first medal in a big multi-sporting event," Chopra had said.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Jitu Rai, a 2014 Asian Games and Commonwealth Games gold medalist - as well as two-time ISSF World Cup medalist - looms as India’s best bet in pistol shooting at the 2018 CWG to be held at Gold Coast City, in the southeast of the Australian state of Queensland from April 4-15.
 
 In 2014, at the age of 26, the Nepal-born Jitu competed in his first CWG and clinched gold on debut in the men’s 50m pistol event. He started by creating a CWG record in the qualification round of the 50m pistol event with 562 points and went on to win gold, scoring 194.1 points in the final, which was another record.
 
 That was Jitu’s best year as an international shooter. Along with that CWG gold, he won a silver medal in the 10m air pistol event at the ISSF World Cup in Munich, then became the first Indian shooter to win two medals at a single world cup in Maribor - a gold in the 10m air pistol and a silver in the 50m pistol - and later won the 50m pistol gold medal and bronze in the men's 10m air pistol team event at the Asian Games.
 
 In August 2015 he was conferred with the Arjuna award. In 2016, shrugging off the disappointment of the Rio Olympics, Jitu clinched a silver medal in the 50m pistol event of the 2016 ISSF World Cup Final after which the ISSF awarded him the ‘Champion of Champions’ title.
 
 In 2017, Jitu won four gold medals and a bronze at ISSF events and two bronze medals at the Commonwealth Shooting Championships. Individually, he won 50m and 10m bronze at the Commonwealth Shooting Championships in Brisbane, the 50m gold at the 61st National Shooting Championship with a new national record score of 233 and a 10m air pistol bronze at the 10th Asian Championship.
 
 Paired with Heena Sidhu, he won the 10m mixed team air pistol event at the ISSF World Cup in Delhi in February and next shot a world record total of 230.1 to claim gold in the men’s 50m pistol event at the same event. In the 10m pistol bronze at the same competition, Jitu finished with bronze. At the ISSF World Cup Rifle/Pistol series in Gabala, with Heena he claimed gold in the mixed team 10m air pistol event. At the ISSF World Cup final in Delhi, Jitu and Heena won the 10m air pistol mixed team gold, finishing with 483.4 points to beat France with 481.1.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The Kidambi Srikanth that contested his first Commonwealth Games in 2014 as a 21 year old, and the one who enters next month’s CWG in Australia, are almost unrecognisable.
 
 Four years ago, Srikanth was still taking his first steps on the international badminton level and a round-one elimination in Glasgow, Scotland was not a surprise. Heading into that edition of the CWG, in his first year of top-level competition, Srikanth had been eliminated in round three of the Mayank Malaysia Open and Thomas & Uber Cups and in round one of the All England Championships, the Swiss Open, Sunrise India Open, Badminton Asia Championships, Japan Open and Indonesia Open. His best result was being runner-up at the India Grand Prix Gold.
 
 Cut to 2018, and Srikanth looks like a certainty for medal at the upcoming Commonwealth Games to be held at Gold Coast City, in the southeast of the Australian state of Queensland from April 4-15. With the Chinese, Koreans, Indonesians and Danes not participating, the biggest threat to Srikanth appears to be the World No 5 Lee Chong Wei and Srikanth’s fellow Indians HS Prannoy and B Sai Praneeth, who beat him in the National Badminton Championships final and Singapore Open final respectively last year.
 
 Since 2016, when he won gold at the South Asian Games and beat Jan O Jorgensen to reach the quarter-finals of the men's singles badminton event at the Rio Olympics, where he went down fighting against two-time defending champion Lin Dan, Srikanth has been transformed into a world-beater under the watchful gaze of Dronacharya Pullela Gopichand.\
 
 The recipient of the Sportsperson of the Year Award at the third Mahindra Scorpio Times of India Sports Awards (TOISA) in February, Srikanth dominated the badminton court in 2017 as he became the first Indian shuttler to win four Superseries titles and moved to a career-high No 2 in the BWF men’s singles rankings.
 
 Srikanth’s first title was the Indonesia Open, where he beat Japan’s Kazumasa Sakai 21-11, 21-19, and a week later he vanquished the world and Olympic champion Chen Long in straight games 22-20, 21-16 to claim the Australia Open. Thus, he became the first Indian to win back-to-back Superseries titles. Later on, Srikanth became the second Indian after Prakash Padukone to win the Denmark Open and then created history by claiming the French Open.
 
 In addition to these four Superseries wins, Srikanth reached the final of the Singapore Open where he lost to compatriot Sai Praneeth (the first instance of two Indian shuttlers reaching a Superseries final), reached the quarter-finals of the Badminton World Championships and was runner-up at the National Badminton Championships.
 
 Currently back at second place in the BWF rankings for men’s singles, Srikanth on Tuesday received the Padma Shri, India’s fourth-highest civilian award. All eyes will be on Srikanth from April 12 when he takes the court at the Carrara Sports & Leisure Centre.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
