AJMER: For the first time after the BJP candidate filed nominations for   bypolls, chief minister Vasundhara Raje campaigned for Ramswaroop Lamba and toured various towns. 

 She met different community leaders and spoke to BJP workers and asked them to show the party’s development report card to common folk.
 
 In line with Hindutva and caste management, Raje reached Kekri in the morning and went straight to Kataria complex where there was Sant Samman programme. Raje gifted shawls to saints of different sects.
 
 Later, Raje held separate meetings with leaders of different castes and spoke to leaders of Raiger, Brahmins, Rajputs and Baniyas. 
 
 “We requested Raje not to release the film ‘Padmaavat’ in Rajasthan. She assured us that she will do what the law will allow her to do,” said  , member of the delegation of Rajput community. He added that Raje asked the Rajput community to support BJP and they assured her of support. The representative of Brahmin community, Mashe Joshi, said that the CM asked them to vote for development in Rajasthan.
 
 Later Raje went to Devmali Temple of the Gujjar community and sought blessings. Raje assured the party’s support to Gujjar community. 
 
 Sources said that the move was planned because   belongs to Gujjar community and there was sympathy and support for the  . Devmali is an important religious place for Gujjars in Masuda block.
 
 Raje then moved to Vijaynagar town where she took part in meetings of different ‘mandals’. Ajmer dairy chairman Ramchandra Choudhary welcomed Raje and promised the support of farmers.
 
 Raje went to Bijoliya in Bhilwara district in the night and met the family of late Kirti Kumari, the former MLA of Mandalgarh.
 
 Higher education minister   conducted a press conference in Ajmer and spoke of the development work done in Ajmer by BJP government. 
 
 Social welfare and justice minister Arun Chautrvedi addressed workers in Ajmer and came down on Congress for criticizing the Bhamashah card scheme and termed it anti-people statement.
 
 
