MUMBAI: A part of Mumbai’s iconic Girgaum   beach is facing a threat of  . A special monitoring   raised the red flag in a report submitted to Bombay   last week.

 The report stated that soil erosion is taking place near the   Road bend, at the northern end of the beach. The water seems to be almost touching the road and the concern is that it will cause sand erosion from other parts of the beach.
 
 The problem is compounded as two authorities are responsible for the beach. The area to the landward side is owned by the collector, while the area from the high-tide line to the water is maintained by Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT). A division bench of Justices Abhay Oka and Pradeep Deshmukh directed a joint inspection of the area and a report is scheduled to be placed before it at the next hearing on February 23.
 
 The HC committee was appointed in 2001 to monitor activities at Chowpatty. The present panel is headed by senior advocate Rafiq Dada and the additional municipal commissioner (city) is the member secretary. The members include Mumbai collector, activist Indrani Malkani, advocates Navroze Seervai and Rajan Jayakar and architect Rahul Mehrotra.
 
 “The process has to be expedited as the issue of soil erosion is a matter of concern,” committee counsel, advocate Vaibhav Bajpai, told the court. The court has sought a clarification on the jurisdiction issue. 
 
 In its two reports, besides the issue of soil erosion, the panel raised concerns about clearing of encroachments on the landward side and tackling of mobile hawkers. Setting up a watch tower for life guards and the issue of jurisdiction of police stations have been brought to the court’s notice. Chowpatty falls under the jurisdiction of D B Marg and Marine Drive police stations. The committee suggested that the entire area, including Chhoti Chowpatty, be under DB Marg police’s jurisdiction. Additional government pleader Geeta Shastri told the court that police would put up boards to inform people about the jurisdiction. 
 
 The issue of demarcation of area to hold functions is also under the court’s consideration. Every year, Ganpati and Durga visarjans are organized at the beach. Three functions are permitted annually: Ram Leela, Krishna Leela and Christmas. The panel submitted to the court the area allocated for the functions.
 
 
