NAGPUR: Even as the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) banned the sale and use of polythene carry bags below 50 microns in 2011, nothing changed in the last seven years on the ground.

 The data pertaining to door-to-door garbage collection reveals that the city generates approximately 18 metric tonnes of plastic waste, out of the 1,200 metric tonnes of waste daily.
 
 Shopkeepers, roadside vendors and citizens can be seen openly using polythene bags below 50 microns in flagrant violation of the ban due to NMC’s lackadaisical attitude.
 
 By carrying out raids, the civic body’s squad caught 199 traders for keeping and selling banned plastic bags below 50 microns in 2016 and 2017 calendar years. It also seized a stock of 32.2kg and collected Rs1.2 lakh as fine.
 
 Ignoring the NMC’s guidelines and taking advantage of absence of special drives, traders in the city continue to sell polythene covers below the stipulated thickness.
 
 However, an officer said in October 2015, the NMC had issued a notification under the   and Usage Rules, 2006 and Central Government’s Plastic Waste Management and Handling Rules, 2011, to allow shopkeepers to charge for polythene bags. “The move was not to earn extra money but to discourage citizens from using them,” the officer said, adding that the NMC’s nuisance squad has been asked to implement the ban.
 
 The big shops have slowly stopped usage of banned plastic carry bags. But hawkers, vegetable and fruit vendors as well as small shopkeepers still use banned plastic. The drive has been expedited in last the two years. Some 1,337kg plastic was seized this year. “The drive is carried out throughout the year and a report is sent every quarter to the state government,” he said.
 
 He said cooperation from the citizens is also very important in this drive. “The NMC is collecting garbage door-to-door and shop-to-shop every day. Still, plastic is thrown in open spaces, nullahs and rivers. Safe collection of plastic waste can also ease problems,” the officer said.
 
 Restaurant owners, hawkers, street-side food vendors, temples and flower vendors who use plastic bags, claimed that it is the customer who demand carry bags.  , a trader from Anant Nagar, claimed that buyers demand items in carry bags as nowadays they do not bring one from home.
 
 Rahul Sahu, a fruit vendor from Itwari Tonga Stand, claimed that carry bags are cheap and the alternative to switch over to should be both cheap and feasible.
 
 Experts said the problem is lack of awareness. They said there is a need for a major attitudinal change on part of the seller as well as the buyer.
 
 Even the NMC’s health officer pointed out that almost all the local bodies in urban and rural areas are not aware of the earlier rule. He said the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board should conduct a detailed training programme for the staffers and educate them thoroughly, like how to identify banned bags etc.
 
 
