PATNA: A 150-bed institute worth 100 crore for diagnosis of tropical diseases was inaugurated by Union health minister   and chief minister   Kumar on the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS) campus on Friday.

 It has been named ‘Samrat Ashok Tropical Disease Research Centre’. It will be the second of its kind in northern India to provide tertiary level treatment to patients suffering from various tropical diseases such as malaria, filaria, dengue, chikungunya, tuberculosis and Japanese Encephalitis/Acute Encephalitis Syndrome. 
 
 “The central government has included preventive and promotive healthcare in the national health policy 2017 to look for prevention and provide universal screening of people for pre-emptive care,” Nadda said and added the scheme was being carried out in 100 districts in the country.
 
 He said the central government was also working towards private sector strategic engagement so that citizens could avail free drugs and diagnostic facilities even if they visited a private health facility. The government would bear the cost. “Bihar has been included in this scheme,” he said and also wished to open Affordable Medicines and Reliable Implants for Treatment (AMRIT) outlets in all the districts of the state. One AMRIT store inaugurated at   last year provides branded and generic medicines at 5 to 50% discount.
 
 CM Nitish said the government was planning a sustained social campaign to involve the masses to bring down the infant mortality rate (IMR) further and to decrease the gender gap in the  . As per the sample registration survey (SRS) 2016, in under-five mortality rates, the male ratio stands at 35 while the female ratio is at 51.
 
 Nitish said he had also asked the state health minister and principal secretary (health) to carry out an intensive routine immunization programme at the expense of the state government similar to the intensive routine immunization being carried out by the central government in 16 districts of Bihar. 
 
 State health minister   said the   virology lab, the only virology lab for infectious diseases in northeast India, had approval up till June this year. He requested the Union minister to get its extension. 
 
 
