GURUGRAM: Five   officials, including the personal assistant to administrator Yashpal Yadav, and a liaison were booked for their alleged involvement in the occupation certificate ( ) scam, a day after the CM’s   picked up a Huda-empanelled architect in the case. 

 Architect Sajjan Kumar was produced in a city court and remanded in police custody on Wednesday.
 
  
  
 Based on his call details and statement, police added the names of Huda administrator’s PA Santosh, data entry operator Mahesh Chandra Sharma, junior engineer  , accounts staff Manoj, cashier   to the FIR for misusing their official positions and indulging in corruption, cheating and forgery. These apart, Braham, who works as a liaison at the Huda estate office, has also been booked for his alleged involvement in irregularities in granting OCs to buildings on individual plots in residential sectors. “These people misused their official positions for their own benefits. These people are also accused of denying people timely government services and forcing them to approach agents, who, in turn, paid them money for their help,” the flying squad said in its report to court.
 
 Flying squad members said they were verifying the evidence found so far, which might expose more Huda employees.
 
 Preliminary probe revealed that Santosh was the ‘key person’ in the Huda office who had been in touch with architect Sajjan and tampered with documents and forged signatures for monetary gains.
 
 Officials, investigating the case, said Sajjan’s phone number was under surveillance for around 60 days between November and December last year and his call details led them to these Huda officials and other accused. The flying squad claimed it had scanned only five of the nine files of call recording till now, which revealed how the architect negotiated with various Huda officials to process certain files against money.
 
 The sleuths said during one such telephonic conversation on November 21, Santosh told Sajjan how she erased the objections noted on a file by the administrator with whitener. The investigating officials said Santosh had tampered with documents on multiple occasions and demanded extra money for the ‘service’.
 
 During another call on January 9, Santosh told the architect “there was no signature of the record keeper on a file and I had forged the signature”.
 
 Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav claimed he was not aware of the details of the FIR. “We will look into the matter and take appropriate action.”
 
