Nagpur: To fulfil the requirement of teachers in the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) at Gondia, the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) has transferred 12 teachers, five professors and seven associate professors from the GMCH and Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital at Nagpur to Gondia GMCH.

 The Gondia GMCH is scheduled to face a compliance inspection of the Medical Council of India (MCI) in about a fortnight and hence the hurried and untimely transfers. During the last MCI inspection in December, the college had faced huge deficiency of teachers. Sources say the DMER was under pressure from Gondia MLA Gopaldas Agrawal to not let the new college lose its recognition.
 
 The transfers were done in two phases. In the first phase, seven associate professors, including one from IGGMCH (Dr Barkat Ali Thobani from physiology department), were transferred to Gondia. These include Dr VN Ambade from forensic department, Dr Mahakalkar from pharmacology, Dr Saira Merchant from paediatrics department, Dr Sujit Chaudhary from orthopaedics department, Dr Jawahar Rathod from radiodiagnosis and Dr Vandana Agrawal from microbiology department of GMCH.
 
 In the second go, five professors including one from Yavatmal GMCH and one from IGGMC have been transferred to Gondia GMCH. Dr Mrinal Phatak, professor of anatomy from IGGMC, and Dr Sujata Dudhgaonkar, professor from medicine department of Yavatmal GMCH, are among the five transferred professors. Dr Arti Anand, professor and head of radiodiagnosis, Dr JK Deshmukh from obstetrics and gynaecology and Dr Bhalchandra Munhar, biochemistry, have been transferred from GMCH, Nagpur.
 
 Generally, such midterm transfers, effected in view of upcoming MCI inspection, are temporary. But this time these transfers have been done as regular transfers without keeping the needs of the colleges of the transferees’ in mind. Senior teachers in GMCH told TOI that these transfers would affect the MCI recognition to the recently increased postgraduate (PG) seats in the GMCH. In fact, the transferred teachers also include professors who are PG guides. 
 
 The DMER office is, however, justifying the transfers by claiming that these transfers were inevitable. Dr Prakash Wakode, joint director, told TOI that there are only three colleges in the state, Aurangabad GMCH, Pune GMCH and Nagpur GMCH which have extra teachers than required and hence only the ‘excess’ teachers can be transferred. When asked about the consequence on the recognition of PG seats in GMCH Nagpur, Dr Wakode said that in case of need, teachers will be transferred to the GMCH.
 
 Meanwhile, the chief of DMER Dr Pravin Shingare said that one professor has been transferred from departments which had more than one. He said that this is a temporary arrangement and the teachers will be brought back when others are available.
 
 
