GURUGRAM: We’re all accustomed to looking up at architecture. But would our perspective change if we instead directed our gaze downwards? “It’s a radical way of looking, with which most of us are unfamiliar,” explained  . A  , writer and lecturer, Lautman was in town to talk about the vanishing   of India (on which she has written a book). 

 The topic takes on new meaning in the light of recent efforts to save a 113-year-old   in Badshapur from being knocked down. “When I heard about it, I was determined to see it,” she said of the structure just off Sohna Road.
 
 Rudabai Vav was the first stepwell Lautman encountered, some 30 years ago, and her fascination for these underground wonders has not dulled. “As I descended, the heat from the Gujarati sun became cool, the light became dim, the sounds became hushed,” she recalled. “It was as if I had entered a different realm – it was also very disorienting!”
 
 Stepwells are unique to the subcontinent, but today they’re just “background noise”, relics of the past obscured by urban clutter. They’ve been encroached on, and conveniently used as waste dumps. “They’re everywhere and hiding in plain sight. Tourists can be 100 yards from one but would have no idea they’re there.” More reason, then, for guidebooks to rhapsodise their stories.
 
 But once upon a time, Lautman reminded everyone, baolis brought communities together. “They were enchanted environments,” she said evocatively. They had a function that went beyond just that of harvesting water. Stepwells were also subterranean temples, and places where folks could congregate socially. They acted as posts on remote trade routes, providing a readily available supply of water for pilgrims, travellers and merchants. 
 
 “They are some of the most unique structures on earth but, inexplicably, stepwells have disappeared from architectural typology,” regrets Lautman. Yet if they can’t be restored to former glory, they can, she believes, be creatively and adaptively reused, which would help extend their lifespans.
 
 Convincing villagers, however, that a stepwell is of practical use, and guaranteeing them custodianship of this piece of physical history, is key to preservation. “Because getting a community to care about a heritage structure is very difficult, so getting villagers on board is important.” 
 
 Ultimately, Indians should really be assuming more responsibility towards their own heritage. “I shouldn’t be doing this, documenting your culture to show you what I value, what you should value,” said Lautman. 
 
 Meanwhile, her love affair with India’s stepwells continues. “I want to see every baoli I hear about and have access to!” said Lautman, speaking at the Sushant School of Art and Architecture, Ansal University.
 
 Stepwells come in different sizes and dimensions (some have multiple entrances). They can be linear, L-shaped, circular, cylindrical, square or octagonal. Among the most famous ones are Chand Baori (Abhaneri, Rajasthan), Rudabai Vav (Adalaj, Gujarat), Rani ki Vav (Patan, Gujarat – a UNESCO World Heritage Site) and Mukundpura Baoli (Narnaul, Haryana).
 
 
 
