MUMBAI: Maharashtra cooperation minister   appears to be in fresh trouble following stringent restrictions imposed by the   (Sebi) against Solapur-based   Agro Industries Ltd controlled by him.

 
 Sebi found that Lokmangal mobilized nearly Rs 75 crore from 4,751 investors in violation of the Companies Act between 2009 and 2012 financial years.
 
 Further, Sebi observed that “Lokmangal and its directors, during the relevant period of fund mobilization, are immediately liable to refund the money, along with interest at the rate of 15%”. In a 23-page order passed by SEBI’s whole-time member G Mahalingam, Lokmangal and its board are restrained from mobilizing funds through the issue of equity shares or through any other form of securities to the public or from inviting subscription till further directions. They are also prohibited from issuing a prospectus or any other offer document or issuing ads for soliciting money from the public. They are barred from accessing the securities market. They cannot divert any funds raised from the public through issuance of equity shares.
 
 Sebi also issued a show-cause notice to Lokmangal and its board as to why they should not be asked to refund the money collected through the issue of equity shares, along with interest that was promised to the investors.
 
 During the course of hearing, Lokmangal submitted Subhash   was a promoter, but he had resigned from the directorship with effect from March 31, 2009, and that he was never participating in the day-to-day affairs of the company thereafter. Accepting his contention, Sebi stated that Deshmukh was not liable for refund of the money raised in breach of the Companies Act as he was not a director during the time of fund mobilization. Deshmukh’s wife, Smita and his relatives are among the nine directors of Lokmangal.
 
 Sebi asked Lokmangal and its directors to refund the money collected by the company during their respective period of directorship, they permitted to sell the assets of the company for the sole purpose of making refund and deposit the proceeds in an escrow account with a nationalized bank. Sebi stipulated that refund should be made through banking channels, the company shall provide full inventory of its assets, directors are prevented from selling their assets and properties.
 
 In the event, Lokmangal and the directors fail to comply with the orders within three months, then the amount will be recovered from them as under the Sebi Act provisions. Authorities can also initiate appropriate action against the company and board and make a reference to the state government, police to register a civil/criminal case.
 
 
