NEW DELHI: In the heat of the Karnataka row, the "humble farmer" of Indian politics, former PM H D Deve Gowda, found himself at the centre of attention receiving visitors and numerous phone calls as he turned 85 on Friday. 

 Though PM Narendra Modi has been tweeting birthday greetings to Gowda every year, a phone call this year appeared to be an upgrade, in line with the fast-paced political developments in the state. Only a few days ago, the PM had said that he went to open the door every time Gowda drove up to meet him.
 
 In a tweet, the PM said: "Spoke to our former Prime Minister Shri   Ji and conveyed birthday wishes to him. I pray for his good health and long life." 
 
 The PM's phone call to Gowda was seen as an attempt to bring around his son,  , under whom JD(S)-Congress had staked claim to form government in the state. 
 
 It was not surprising that Congress president Rahul Gandhi chose to wish Gowda a day in advance and didn't miss the occasion to smoothen ruffled feathers in the aftermath of "harsh" comments he had made against the senior leader during the campaign for the hard fought elections. Congress has already supported JD(S) which staked claim to form government before BJP got the governor's invite as the single largest party.
 
 During the campaign, Rahul had dubbed the JDS chief as BJP's 'B' Team. He had also referred to JD(S) as Janata Dal (Sangh Parivar), in what was seen an attempt to ensure that Muslim votes don't go to Deve Gowda's outfit. Modi had latched on to the comments to say that Rahul was disrespectful of seniors.
 
 Rahul is learnt to have apologised to Gowda for the comments during the poll campaign and sources said the two discussed the prevailing political situation in Karnataka and emphasised the need to "stay united and fight for a common cause".
 
 During the 10-minute conversation, the Congress president also enquired about Gowda's health and sought the former PM's cooperation to counter BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. 
 
 In a tweet, Rahul said: "I would like to wish Shri HD Deve Gowda ji a very happy birthday and pray for his good health and happiness."
 
 West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee also congratulated Gowda on the twitter. 
 
 The former PM also visited Tirupati temple, which is a birthday ritual. 
 
 
