CHENNAI: The development in Karnataka is the first step and the   would face more such defeats in the coming days and months, said the CPM’s general secretary, Sitaram  . He was in Chennai on Friday, which was his first visit after being re-elected to the post, and held a meeting with senior party leaders.

 “The CPM is happy with the Supreme Court’s order on the Karnataka issue. A proper floor test has to be conducted and it is in the interest of the country and democracy. The BJP wanted 15 days, only to indulge in horse-trading and the Supreme Court has refused to grant it. We only hope everything goes according to the SC order in the floor test,” said Yechury.
 
 The Karnataka episode once again demonstrates the onslaught on parliamentary democracy by the BJP. 
 
 “Since the BJP came to power in 2014, almost all institutions under the Constitution whether it is parliament itself or CAG, ED, CBI etc are under siege. The 15th finance commission is yet another attack on the states,” he said.
 
 The CPM leader said the Karnataka governor has not followed the practice of governors in Goa, Manipur and Meghalaya, who had invited the post-poll alliance to form the government and not inviting the single largest party.
 
 It is the right time for all opposition parties to come together against the BJP to strengthen the federal structure. 
 
 “Recently the LDF government in Kerala took an initiative of convening a meeting of southern states on the finance commission’s terms of reference. Very soon there will be a meeting of all opposition parties on the issue. We are ready to cooperate with such parties to come together against the BJP,” said Yechury.
 
 Laying thrust on the fact that an all-India alternative is not possible in the present conditions, Yechury said the United Front in 1996 was formed after the Lok Sabha elections with regional parties joining the front. Similarly after the 2004 Lok Sabha elections too, more parties joined the UPA. TDP and TMC may not have any role in any election in Uttar Pradesh. “Thus even the regional parties may fight elections on their own according to their strength and with local arrangements in the states to defeat the BJP,” he said.Asked whether the CPM be able to bounce back after losses in West Bengal and Tripura, the general secretary said the party is fighting communal polarisation in both the states. “In both the states, the CPM cadres are under physical attacks. More than 40 of our cadres have been killed in the recent West Bengal local body elections. In Bengal, both TMC and BJP are acting in tandem of not allowing any space for CPM and therefore are indulging in physical attacks,” said Yechury.
 
 
