CHANDIGARH:   assembly on Wednesday passed the Punjab   Bill, 2018 to create a social security fund and, if needed, introduce new surcharges to fund its welfare schemes.

 The bill makes provision for social security surcharges of up to Rs 2 on petrol and diesel, 1% on registration of vehicles, 10% on transport vehicles, 5% on electricity bills and 10% on excise duty.
 
 The   claimed that the bill was passed with the intent to burden people by imposing new taxes.
 
 However, finance minister   Badal insisted that no new surcharge has been imposed as yet and it was only an “enabling bill” and an “off-budget provision” — meaning their spending and receipts are walled off from the rest of the budget.
 
 “If the government wants, it can impose the surcharge though right now we don’t want to do any such thing,” said Manpreet while proposing the bill.
 
 When AAP’s Dakha MLA HS   questioned the finance minister, “Hasn’t the bill has been brought in the first place because you intend to impose surcharges?” Manpreet replied, “There is nothing to prevent the government to impose taxes anyways. You have not read the bill. It is only a provision. The government is enabling itself, if the need arises.”
 
 He added: “The funds collected will be kept out of the consolidated fund. Around 17.15 lakh beneficiaries under social security pension scheme, 45 lakh getting health insurance and 70 lakh expected to be covered under the Shagun scheme and post-matric scholarship will be disbursed money on time.”
 
 “Today, no new tax is being imposed. The bill is primarily to set up the Trust (a dedicated social security fund),” insisted Manpreet.
 
 The receipts will go to the Social Security Fund for disbursal of pensions and scholarships under various state schemes. The fund will be managed by a trust that will have the chief minister as its chairman and the finance minister as a member of its governing body, among others.
 
 Punjab technical education minister Charanjit Singh Channi said poor beneficiaries of pensions schemes had not been getting timely payments under the previous SAD-BJP regime and had to run from pillar to post. “This bill will impose that the disbursal is made on the first of every month. A provision is being made and no tax is being imposed,” he insisted.
 
 Phoolka alleged that due to the rising prices of diesel in the state, there was smuggling from other states and Punjab was actually losing out on revenue. “Besides, such an important bill is being brought on the table without timely information to the members. The government should instead consider constituting a corporation for liquor vends in the state and not impose new taxes,” he said.
 
 The fund collected from the surcharge will be used for 10 welfare schemes, including pensions for senior citizens, widows and differently-abled, health and accident insurance, post-matric scholarships for SC/BC students, financial assistance to acid attack victims and unemployment allowance.
 
 The social security surcharge on monthly electricity bill will be 5%, “provided that the minimum liability of the consumer will not be less than Rs 25 per month and the maximum liability of consumer will not exceed Rs 10,000 per month.”
 
 Similarly, provision of social security surcharge not exceeding 10% of the excise duty and licence fee as chargeable under the Punjab Excise Act has been made.
 
 The bill provides for the government borrowing or raising money in such a manner as it deems fit and secure repayment of any money borrowed or raised.
 
 
 
 
