CHANDIGARH: Construction work on the much-awaited All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) campus at   will start in a fortnight. The 750-bedded   campus will come up at a cost of Rs 925 crore to be borne entirely by the central government. The construction work of the campus is scheduled to be completed by May 2020.

 
 “Since the first OPD (outpatient department) has to be made functional by April 1 next year, the construction work will be started by the contractor within a fortnight,” said additional chief secretary (health, medical education and research)  . In a meeting between the Punjab health department and the Union health ministry officers on Tuesday, it was decided that the state government would grant all the required permissions for the project within a maximum of 15 days.
 
 Besides 750 beds,   will have 20 super specialty sections. It will have 100 MBBS seats and 60 BSc nursing seats. The medical session at Bathinda campus would start from July next year. The Bathinda campus is among 20 such campuses being set up across the country under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojna (PMSSY). The AIIMS campus at Bilaspur in Himachal Pradesh is scheduled to be completed by September 2021.
 
 Chandra said the AIIMS Bathinda campus would come up on 170-acre land which has already been provided by the state government. “Contract for construction of campus has been issued by the central government. Now the state government is required to provide clearance for environment, Punjab pollution control board clearance and the sewerage clearance,” he added.
 
 The additional chief secretary further added that the state government was required to provide the approach road to the campus site from the national highway, to shift the water channel from the campus site and to provide a power substation, work on these has almost been done.
 
 The Bathinda campus was approved by the Union health ministry in July 2016 and the project has already been delayed. Prime Minister   had laid down the foundation stone of the Bathinda campus in October 2016.
 
