KOCHI: On Wednesday, a man killed his estranged wife on a busy street in Kochi after they argued over her frequent mobile chats; he suspected that she was in a relationship with another man.   said that the violent reaction of the husband in this case reflected the extreme double standards in our society.

 
  
  
 
 Senior   Dr CJ   said it was a case of how could she do it? “She is a woman and needs more punishment. This thought is a gender dimension expression where a woman cannot cheat her husband by communicating with another person right under his nose. If it was a man, the social advice to the wife would be: pardon him, he is a man,” he said Dr John added that this ‘cultural pardoning’ was depressing as the man could return to his wife as everything was in his favour. “Right now, these communication devices are taking you away from reality because emotional exploitation forces are very much alive.
 
 When you text your problems, there are so many images and wordings that draw you into a relationship. In a marriage, partners should focus on caregiving at home rather than seeking warmth in virtual space. Do not create emotional vacuum in your marriage,” he said.
 
 Ernakulam ACP K Laljy said the use of technology is indeed affecting relationships. “we have come across such instances where overuse of phones was the reason. In many case, it might be just a doubt. There are chances that such quarrels might end in physical violence,” he said.
 
 Dr John said: “Now there are more avenues.One important as pectisthatthe number of fun-seeking women is comparatively less than fun-seeking men. If a woman gets into a relationship on the sly, the cause could be the husband, who did not meet her expectations. He might not be spending enough time with her. The woman gets connected to another person because gadgets offer privacy.”
 
 CriminologistJamesVadackumchery said that the longer it takes to resolve doubts and suspicion, the higher the chance for an aggressive outburst. “If husband and wife are keeping their phones locked, there is a chance of them having contacts unknown to the significant other. Such contacts could lead to smallsuspicion and an attempttoeven inquire about it could lead to a quarrel. If the suspicion continues, it could lead to aggression in some cases,” he said.
 
 “Devices have reduced direct communication. The social etiquette is lost in this device communication. People are looking at this ‘virtual world’ and forgetting reality. There is no morality in this world and it is a worldof no-return,” said psychiatrist  .
 
