Russia 2018 will be a golden opportunity for   to emulate  . Pozzo, the Italian, remains the only manager to win consecutive World Cups in 1934 and 1938. Carlos Bilardo and Franz Beckenbauer came close, reaching two finals with the Argentine and the West German teams in 1986 and 1990, but each won only once. Can this new-look Germany buck the trend?

 
 
 
 
 
 Obviously we can. At the same time, it will probably be the toughest thing to do. Winning one World Cup is great and getting the chance to defend it successfully is another opportunity for us to go for the ultimate glory. Emulating the history those two teams achieved in the past will definitely be an honour and we shall be the happiest people if we can.
 
 
 
 
 
 We are ready to rewrite history. I know it, but there is absolutely no reason why a new trend cannot be set.
 
 
 
 We have been working on youth football for so many years now. The process had been followed in every age group and in every academy. What we wanted to do is to create a supply line for the national time so that under no circumstances there will be shortage of talents. Yes, it is difficult to fill the shoes of a Lahm or a Schweini or a Klose. But we have exciting prospects and they had shown their worth.
 
  
  
 Germany may be without Klose (fifth from left), Lahm (centre, below) and Schweinsteiger (with trophy), but are confident of a repeat of the 2014 triumph
 
 
 
 Well, it is important to have the squad of 23 ready to be in action whenever required. For tournaments like World Cup, it’s not only about the chosen first XI, it’s about the entire squad. We stress on developing the squad rather than the first eleven. Again, it is an ongoing process. It has to be followed to form a team of world beaters.
 
 
 
 There are too many, I believe. We have champions from Europe in the last three editions of the World Cup. Italy won the 2006 edition in our country, Spain in 2010 and we lifted the trophy in 2014. This time it will be played in Europe again and European nations like Spain, Portugal, France will be favourites once again along with Brazil and Argentina, the two South American giants. How can you forget Belgium? They seem to have a perfect team to go the distance.
 
 
 
 As a football fan, I always want to watch nations with richer football history in the World Cup. So, personally, I’ll be missing them along with their numerous fans. These two European nations provided too many things to world football. Besides them, Chile, the Copa America champions will not be there either. In other words, that is what the World Cup is all about. Sometimes it is difficult even for the best teams to reach there.
 
 
 
 You cannot make a list and order them, right? Talent is needed but talent alone cannot ensure you the trophy. You need to work hard to proceed in every sphere of life. Again, hard work cannot guarantee you success in World Cup. The process is important, method, discipline, the way you are playing both as a team as well as an individual. Each of the said factors is important for a team to win the most coveted trophy. You just cannot ignore any one of them. Above all, you need a bit of luck, too.
 
 
 
 Obviously. You know the players, they know you. You know where to go and whom to talk to during any problem. It helps you to experiment. On the other side, the pressure of expectation will be more. However, the pressure of expectation is synonymous with the German national football team because of our success in the world stage. There will be the pros and cons but for me, it definitely helps when you are at the helm of affairs for long.
 
