Madurai: Leaving space for margin while writing is not something new, for erstwhile palm-scripts had margins at both ends, as one end was used to number the script, while another is used to give a gist of the page, explained Government Museum Curator, A Periasamy to group of students from Tamil Department of Sri Meenakshi Government College for Women. The students came with their professors to learn about the chemical preservation methods of palm-scripts. Before, they commenced the chemical treatment, curator gave them an introduction about palm-scripts. As he explained about the margins, one of the faculties chuckled, stating that their girls are ultra-cost-conscious, for they won’t even leave a small gap to make remarks while writing. Periasamy further said that they have done an exercise 12-years back, asking public to produce old palm scripts if they come across any in their houses, and the results were interesting he added. The exercise was funded by central government with the intension of stumbling upon any ancient Sangam literature copies or a Sidha cure for AIDS hidden anywhere in those crumbling palm scripts. “Though we had not found anything pertaining to these objectives, we did landed upon palm scripts, containing dowry accounts, usury list and local lore. It was an interesting exercise”, he told the students. Though Chinese invented paper for writing in the 2nd century AD, its actual use in India or in this region happened only in the 12 century AD, till then palm leaves were the writing material of this place. There were three type of stylus to write on them, and leaves were harvested from three types of palm trees. However palm leaves suffer damage from four factors like physical, chemical, biological and human handling. They are vulnerable to heat, climate, pollution, pest attack and rough handling of the readers. “The chemical treatment helps to ward off pests from eating away the palm scripts”, he said. Cleaning the palm scripts, with a solution containing citronella/lemongrass oil and rectified spirit in 1:10 proportion, will protect the palm scripts from pest attacks, curator said. After the session, the students cleaned 30 palm script bundles, preserved in Government Museum. Retired regional assistant director of art & culture, N Sulaiman presided over the training session in the presence of Durai Vijayapndian of Madurai Philatelist and Numismatics Association (MAPNA). “Palm scripts are treasure troves. Students get to know the importance of them during these exercises”, Sulaiman quipped.