BENGALURU/CHENNAI: A couple of days ago, multinational human resources consultancy   suspended an employee for abusive tweets calling for violence against Kashmiris. A month before, a bank fired an employee for tweeting against the Kathua rape victim.

 
  is taking strict action against trolls on its rolls, and employee behaviour on social media - even on accounts not linked to their official roles - is monitored to ensure it is not against company culture. DDI World said, "As of May 12, we have accepted the individual's resignation. The individual's opinions were his alone, and do not reflect the values of DDI. We hold ourselves and our employees to the highest standards of personal conduct, and refuse to tolerate violence and hate speech of any kind."
 
 Kotak Mahindra Bank, which fired an employee for condoning the Kathua gang-rape, condemned the behaviour strongly in a statement announcing the termination in April.
 
  
  
 
 HR firm  's head Mustafa Moochhala said, "Companies try to respond quickly to stop hatemongering. We have seen many examples of employees being fired that day or the next. The conflict arises when the organisation holds a neutral or opposing view about caste, race, gender or religion. The response is quick and sharp because companies have a well-framed code of ethics and conduct."
 
 When US-born Ravin Gandhi, founder and CEO of GMM Nonstick Coatings, wrote a critical op-ed following US President  's Charlottesville remarks, he was trolled. The Indian-origin CEO was told to "go back to India", after he wrote, "I will not in good conscience support a president who seems to hate Americans who don't look like him."
 
 Gandhi said he normally does not engage with trolls but relaxed the rule this time. "Given the importance of the race issue in America under Trump, I felt it was important to respond," said Gandhi. "Our HR department helps staff with various issues, and if anyone was subjected to online attacks, and wanted counsel, we would definitely provide it." An employee who shows abusive behaviour online impacts the organisation's image, said counselling psychologist Govind Ganesh, who has recorded a 20% increase in patients who come to him for help dealing with trolls.
 
