COIMBATORE: After AIADMK, it’s the turn of   to get haunted by illegal gutkha. The arrest of DMK functionary and former town panchayat president of   in connection with illegal gutkha unit in Coimbatore has put DMK in a fix at a time when the party was vociferously attacking   in gutkha scam.

 Soon after sending former president of Kannampalayam town panchayat   to Coimbatore central prison on Friday, the police seized his relative’s mini truck alleging that it was used for transporting the illegal gutkha products. Taken aback by the development, the DMK said it was politically motivated case to silence the party. 
 
 “We have booked Thalapathy Murugesan under section 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested him on Thursday. He was produced before the judicial magistrate cum munsif court at Sulur on Friday and remanded in judicial custody for 15 days. He has been lodged at the Coimbatore central prison,” said a senior police officer. “This is a false case and I have been framed to silence DMK,’’ Murugesan told reporters at the court. But police deny that it was a politically motivated case and say that they have evidence on the role of Thalapathy Murugesan in the illegal gutkha unit run by   from New Delhi who is at large. The unit was raided on April 27 by a team led by ADSP GS Anitha and arrested four people, all employees of the unit, and formed a special team to nab Amit Jain.
 
 In a statement issued on Friday, the district police said that one of the arrested four, Raghuraman, manager of the unit has confessed that Thalapathy Murugesan received kickbacks from Amit Jain. 
 
 “Raghuraman told us that Murugesan received crores of rupees for getting licence for the unit, Local Planning Authority approval, drinking water connection and conversion of agricultural land for industrial use,’’ the press statement from police said. Other witnesses in the case have also corroborated the role of Murugesan in the illegal unit, police said. After the arrest and interrogation of Murugesan, the police also found out that a mini–truck, owned by Murugesan’s relative was used for transporting illegal gutkha from the unit to other places, the statement said.
 
 “It was to divert attention of the police from his role and prevent us from pursuing the case that Thalapathy Murugesan along with the help of Singanallur DMK MLA N   staged a protest with other DMK cadres,’’ said the police officer. 
 
 Soon after the crackdown on illegal unit, DMK working president M K   also came down to Coimbatore and staged a protest. Stalin had then warned that Coimbatore rural SP Pa Moorthy would face action for arresting DMK protesters once the party comes to power. However, after the arrest of Murugesan, DMK has toned down its attack. 
 
 
