Rajkot: Three persons, including a police sub-inspector and his driver, were injured after a mob   a police team that had gone to arrest two persons accused in an attempt to murder case in Somalpara village of Jasdan taluka of Rajkot early morning on Tuesday.

 Sub-inspector Yashpalsinh Rana (25) of Gondal taluka police station and his driver Govind Dhandhal sustained injuries on hand and leg respectively after they were attacked with sharp-edged weapons. Vijay Sankhaniya (30), a resident of Somalpar village in Jasdan, was shot in the leg by PSI Rana when he tried hit the cop with a machete. All three — Vijay, Rana and Govind — are admitted to the Rajkot Civil Hospital for treatment.
 
 Police booked 33 persons including Vijay, and his aides Palu Sadamiya and his brother Mailo Sadamiya of Mota Dalva village of Gondal, for attempt to murder, obstructing police officer from performing duty and trying to aid an accused to escape from police custody.
 
 Palu and Mailo were on Monday booked in another attempt to murder case in Mota Dalva village where the two brothers had allegedly attacked their brother-in-law Natu Charoliya over a petty issue with a machete. Charoliya sustained severe injuries and his condition is said to be critical.
 
 According to police, Palu and Mailo were agitated as Charoliya didn’t allow his wife (their sister) from going to her maternal home to celebrate Uttarayan on January 14.
 
 After attacking Charoliya, the accused duo fled and took shelter at their friend Vijay’s house in Somalpar. When PSI Rana came to know that the accused were hiding in Somalpar, he and his team went to nab them. While the police was putting the accused in the van, Vijay and 30 others pelted stones on the police vehicle. Vijay hit driver Govind on the leg with a machete. 
 
 He then turned towards Rana and attacked him with the sharp weapon. Rana blocked it and got hurt in the left hand. Rana then fired two rounds from his service revolver in the air to disperse the crowd. But when Vijay did not stop Rana shot him in the right leg and arrested him.
 
 An FIR has been lodged against Vijay, Palu, Malio and 30 others for attempting to murder the police, obstructing them from performing duty and trying to escape from custody. 
 
 
