Heavy rain wrecked havoc in the city as Vizagites woke up to dark skies and rumbling clouds on Tuesday morning. Most areas of   were drenched in muddy water as the rain lashed on for hours. Traffic rules went for a toss as two-wheelers scrambled for shade. The whole city came to a grinding halt as autos and cabs refused to ply. “I did not expect the whole city to come undone like this by just one rain, albeit a heavy one,” exclaimed 23-year-old IT employee Nitin Ramba, adding, “Most of the areas in the city are filled with garbage and mud. 
 , what will happen when the rainy season comes?” 
 
  
 
 
  As streets were filled with overflowing storm water, scenes of motorists wading through knee deep waters, hapless denizens desperately trying to drain out their inundated homes using, over flowing drains, overrun garbage bins met the eye everywhere. In fact finding place to park vehicles, amidst the mud and muck covering the streets itself proved to be a challenge. “I can’t even find a clean space to park my bike,” rued 26 year old IT employee Pallavi, even as the   workers strived hard to clean up as soon as possible.
  
  
 
 
  Hordes of Vizagites who gathered at the Beach Road early Tuesday morning to soak up some fresh salty morning sea breeze on May Day were in for a rather unpleasant surprise. The usually spick and span footpath by the beach was filled with water and garbage that flooded out of nowhere much to the chagrin of the city folk who were hoping to spend some quality time with family what with offices being shut in the city. For Vamsi Vinayak, a 24-year-old from Hyderabad, who came on work to Vizag, this was not something he had expected at all. “The locals told me it’s usually beautiful at the beach road when it rains. However, when I turned up here, the place was filled with coconut shells and plastic bottles. Vizag usually ranks high on the Swachh Bharat rankings; I did not expect the place to turn so dirty with just one heavy rain,” bemoaned Vamsi.
  
  
 
 
  While some citizens blamed the GVMC for the state of affairs others felt that the municipal authorities can’t be held solely responsible as it is only before the rainy season that they usually get around to unclogging the underground drainage systems. 
 
  GVMC Commissioner   though assured that life will be back to normal very soon. “On the Beach Road, debris was seen at two locations. One is due to civil work upstream the canal and the sudden rainfall caused material to block on the course. The second one was due to collapse of a private compound, which is what resulted in the debris,” said Hari Narayan.
 
  Naveen Naidu, a 26-year-old entrepreneur from the city believes that locals should take up responsibility for keeping the city as clean as possible in the first place. “The ground right opposite Beach Road stands at an elevation and are usually used for the CII Partnership Summit every year. However during the rest of the year, the ground is being handed out to weddings, festival celebrations, religious gatherings, government meets and more. Other than the government parties, whoever holds their events there never clean up after the shoe, leaving a pile of garbage in the area. Now, all that rubbish got washed onto the beach due to the slope. Had the surroundings been kept clean in the first place, this wouldn’t have happened,” he says. 
  
  
  
  
  Not everyone was complaining though. The rain was much welcomed by those living in areas facing groundwater shortage like Arilova and MVP and those reeling under the rising temperatures the last few days. “The green cover in the city, that had lost its richness due to the heat, is lush again thanks to the rain. And it also brought some respite from the sweltering heat,” quipped a college student. With selfies, long drives and beach dates galore, young Vizagites sure enjoyed the ‘good weather’ day, almost forgetting the unforgiving rain of the morning.
 
  
 
 
