NEW DELHI: While the problem of obesity among   is much documented, equally worrying is the prevalence of low weight among those aged between 15 and 19 years and studying in  . 

 Screening of nearly 1,785 students — 950 from 12 government schools and 835 from 10 private schools in Delhi — has revealed that one in every five adolescents in Delhi is either underweight or  .
 
 
  
 
 One of the reasons for this high number could be that government schoolchildren cannot afford nutritional food, while private school students deliberately avoid them owing to their unhealthy dietary habits, Rita Sapra, principal of the school of nursing at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, who led the screening programme, told TOI.
 
 Anyone who has a body mass index (BMI) — a measure of relative size based on the mass and height of an individual — which is less than or equal to 16.4 is considered severely underweight.
 
 If children are in range of 16.5 to 17.5, they are considered underweight, Sapra added. She was shocked to find that a number of government and private school students fell in both categories. “Being underweight is linked to a host of complications, including poor physical stamina, low immunity, anaemia, protein calorie malnutrition and poor self-esteem, among others,” the nursing school principal pointed out.
 
 Sapra and his team had set out to find the prevalence of obesity and awareness about diabetes among adolescents of Delhi, but they chanced upon the underweight data while analysing the results. 
 
 Results of the screening programme have been published in the latest issue of Current Medicine Research and Practice. It confirmed the trend of rising incidence of obesity among students. The study found that one in four students (23%) in private schools was either overweight or obese. In government schools, the number was one in eight children (12%).
 
 Dr Anoop Misra, chairman, Fortis Centre for Diabetes (obesity and cholesterol), said: “Obesity among schoolchildren is certainly on the rise and several studies have shown that. But the number of students being underweight is surprising. If the study is correct, it is an alarming figure as low weight is linked to multiple problems, like poor stamina and vulnerability to infections. I cannot confirm the trend though.”
 
 Misra added that even in well-to-do families, the consumption of carbohydrate-rich diet is common and people tend to miss out of micronutrients.
 
 Clinical nutritionist Ishi Khosla said that prevalence of obesity and underweight among schoolchildren is high because of food sensitivity. “It leads to both inflammation and mal-absorption. If we guide them well, based on the student’s nutrition status, both can be corrected,” Khosla added.
 
 
