NEW DELHI: It seems easier to arrest a thief on   than getting them convicted for the offence. Police said that most such criminals are bailed out easily due to lack of  . While passengers seldom agree to depose in court against the  , the cases also fall flat in front of a judge for lack of witnesses and physical evidence. Most thefts are not even caught on CCTV cameras, sources said.

 As part of their  , police have arrested over 60 thieves since last year. However, 95% of them are out on bail. “For the past few months, we have been mapping their involvement in other cases so that the information can be used to argue for stronger punishment later,” said DCP (Metro) Pankaj Singh.
 
 “The thieves get away as most victims don’t agree to come and identify them. The test identification parade often proves a failure because most victims cannot recognise the thieves. Those who pick wallets or phones do it covertly from behind and the victim realises it only later. Only those caught on CCTV can be recognised,” said an investigator.
 
 Police can make a strong case only if the stolen goods are recovered or the presence of accused at the station at the time of crime is proven. If the goods comprise jewellery, there are bleak chances of recovery as the receivers of stolen property often melt it down before police reach them.
 
 For proving the presence of the thieves, police rely on CCTV footage and mobile location of suspects. The latter is considered weak as most of the time thieves use stolen phones and SIM cards.
 
 “At times, the investigation hits a roadblock as the old metro coaches delete feeds automatically after every seven hours. Though the cameras at metro stations store feeds for 30 hours, identifying a criminal from a crowd is a difficult task,” said a senior officer.
 
 Last June, a court pulled up police for not seizing CCTV footage of a metro station to nail the accused. Cops argued that they had scanned the footage, but didn’t find anything in there. However, the court insisted that the footage should have been put on record.
 
 However, four people were convicted in 2013 for targeted a woman on the metro between Chandni Chowk and Kashmere Gate by making her sniff a sedative. They had stolen her cellphone, jewellery and ATM cards. The court had relied upon police’s evidence comprising call details records (CDR) of the accused to prove they were present at Chandni Chowk and had followed the victim to Rohini Sector 23.
 
 
