AHMEDABAD: ‘Chhello Divas’, one of the box office hits in 2016, could boast of rekindling the hopes of the  . It was watched by just about 15 lakh people in cinema halls. Yet, it managed to collect Rs 18 crore at the box office.

 Two decades ago, in 1996, ‘Desh Re Joya Dada Pardesh Re Joya’, collected Rs 22 crore at the box office, the all-time highest in the history of Gujarati films. A staggering 1.5 crore people watched that movie. How ‘Chello Divas’ managed such high collections with just 10% of the footfalls has everything to do with increased ticket prices, the interest of urban audiences and the different type of cinema halls – single screen theatres against multiplexes.
 
 Why did the audience for Gujarati films shrunk? What ails the film industry? What is lacking in Gujarati films? The first ever research on the economics of Gujarati films finds this out. An associate professor at a Pilvai college, Kartikey Bhatt, undertook research on the subject ‘Economic Problems of Regional Film Industries: A Case Study of Gujarati Film Industry’, for his doctoral study.
 
 Bhatt says the poor quality of films coupled with the diminished scope for screening is the main cause of the permanent sickness of the Gujarati film industry. Demand for Gujarati films as a means of entertainment is very low and this is due to poor film quality. A mere 1% of Gujarat’s population watches Gujarati films in cinema halls, against 10%-12% who watch films in general.
 
 On assessing the 1991-2011 period, Bhatt found that the average spending on making of a Gujarati film was Rs 12 crore, but the returns were around Rs 7-8 crore. This led to reduction in production budgets, with most shot on 16mm film instead of 35mm, resulting in poor quality projection. Due to the losses, more than 90% of people who enter the business of producing Gujarati films do not take up another project, because of high rates of flop films. With this much flux in people, producers couldn’t establish unity with those involved in exhibition of films – theatre owners — and the film industry ultimately suffers.
 
 Bhatt says history shows that Gujarati films have always done well when there is an innovation. He cites the examples of ‘Jesal Toral’, ‘Desh Re Joya Dada Pardesh Joya’, ‘Kevi Rite Jaish’ and ‘Chhello Divas’ to highlight that freshness in film technique or story telling has attracted audiences to Gujarati films. An upsurge in business also brings stars in the industry, who prove helpful in giving Gujarati films a push. Bhatt explains how audiences were attracted by the to star value of Upendra Trivedi, Naresh Kanodia, Snehlatta, Hiten Kumar, Roman Manek, Vikram Thakor and Malhar Thaker.
 
 However, increasing ticket prices, expensive service at cinema halls, more means of entertainment such as TV channels, DVDs, the internet, video games etc. have hit Gujarati films the worst. In India, a regular film goer who used to watch 3-4 films a year earlier, now watches 1-2 films a year.
 
 Moreover, low ticket prices at single screen theatres result in poor maintenance and this further deters audiences from watching Gujarati films. The increased concentration of cinema halls in urban areas has also adversely affected the Gujarati film industry. Bhatt applies the location theory of economics to films, to find out how films were viewed less in cinema halls in the 1980-90s. “Cities expanded very fast and cinema halls remained in the central parts. People did not go to watch films due to the longer distances. Now, as theatres are built in newly developed areas, footfalls have increased,” he says.
 
 After 2011, events generated hope for the Gujarati film industry. ‘Love is Blind’ was the first film shown in multiplexes, ‘Kevi Rite Jaish’, ‘Bey Yaar’ and ‘Gujjibhai the Great’ appealed to young urban audiences and led to the emergence of stars, increased production budget and shoots in foreign locations.
 
 
 
