CHENNAI: The M A Chidambaram stadium in Chepauk could become ground zero for   protests after fringe political outfits on Wednesday targeted the Indian Premier League ( ), calling for the league’s boycott, in a bid to push the Centre into constituting the Cauvery Management Board (CMB).

 With local franchise   ( ) returning to the T20 league after a two-year gap, anticipation is high among cricket fans so much so that CSK’s practice sessions drew more than 10,000 supporters to the stadium.
 
 However, Nagapattinam legislator   said that the frenzy over cricket during the Cauvery crisis denotes misplaced emotion, especially when farmers were going through troubled times. “Tamil Nadu government should ban IPL because farmers are in a state of anguish. Only a ban would help send a strong message,” Ansari said.
 
 “I am not against IPL, or the players who earn several crores of rupees playing the game unlike our poor farmers. If the government goes ahead with holding the league, I request the fans to return their tickets and demand a refund. If players still go ahead and come to play, we would be left with no choice but enter the stadium and imprison them (players),” Ansari added.
 
 Sumanth C Raman, political commentator and television host, did not subscribe to Ansari’s view. But the IPL being a high profile draw, Raman felt it was a just stage to protest albeit peacefully. “I am a big fan of CSK. The idea should not be to have the matches banned. Instead, fans should stay away voluntarily. The empty galleries will send a strong message, better than a locally-organised bandh can,” he said.
 
 The idea gained momentum among members of the film fraternity too with music composer James Vasanthan and actor Vivekh issuing statements. Vasanthan came out with a blog note titled “April 10 - A weapon in hand”, wherein he asked fans to show “solidarity and opposition” in the Cauvery issue.
 
 “All I am suggesting is to abstain from going to the stadium for a single match and strengthen this water movement of this state!” Vasanthan’s note said. Vivekh, referring to the Sterlite protests in Tuticorin and the Cauvery issue as livelihood issues, tweeted, “Success depends on the strong will of students n youth! Decide.”
 
 CSK sources told TOI that they were monitoring developments closely. “We are in touch with the Chennai police. They (cops) know the schedule and we expect them to handle the law and order situation appropriately. Entering the playing field (in the stadium) will be tough with the kind of fencing we have in place,” a senior CSK executive said.
 
 “CSK is returning after two years. It has been a tough ride. We only hope that the show goes on smoothly,” he added.
 
 
