AHMEDABAD: Fourteen-month-old Rudra, allegedly   as he was suffering from   — a   where the   instead of connecting normally to the stomach — died Ahmedabad Civil Hospital on Monday.   was being looked after by his grandparents, Dahya Patel and Anandiben, besides his father Ghanshyam Patel, a real estate agent.

 Rudra’s grandfather Dahya Patel said Rudra underwent his first operation when he was just two days old. “His mother, Toral, left us after it was found that Rudra had a complex congential birth defect. Ever since, he was with us. Rudra’s father lodged a complaint against Toral for deserting the child. Toral now lives at her parental house with her four-year-old daughter,” added Dahya Patel.
 
 Patel said that on Monday afternoon they had to rush Rudra to Civil Hospital as his condition worsened. “The doctors at Civil Hospital declared him dead after a short period of treatment. We have lost an angel,” said Dahya.
 
 Meanwhile, on Monday, the Gujarat high court stayed police from taking coercive action against Toral Patel, on the complaint filed by her husband that she had deserted Rudra over his condition.
 
 The high court ordered Toral and Ghanshyam Patel to remain present for further proceeding on the petition filed by Toral, seeking quashing of the FIR filed by Ghanshyam. Till then, Justice J B Pardiwala has ordered police not to arrest her.
 
 Toral and Ghanshyam Patel’s case hit the headlines last month after the husband filed an FIR with Naranpura police, accusing Toral of deserting their one-year old son Rudra because of his condition. She was accused of refusing to return to the matrimonial home after giving birth to Rudra. Police booked her under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act for willfully ignoring her son’s needs and endangering his survival.
 
 In her petition, filed through advocate Manan Shah, Toral said that her husband filed the FIR as a counterblast to the complaint she filed against him and her in-laws. Ten days before the FIR was filed against her, her husband and in-laws were booked for cruelty and demanding dowry. She claimed that she was not allowed to live in the matrimonial house and was being harassed.
 
 
