NEW DELHI:   is a once in a generation superstar and the one that had probably captured the imagination of the wrestling fans across the globe the most. From his iconic barbershop break-up of the Rockers to the outwardly craziness with the DX, The Heart Break kid ruled Monday Night RAW. Not to mention the many memorable matches Mr. Wreslemania delivered over the years. And fittingly, with   set to celebrate 25 year of RAW, Michaels returning to RAW is the most exciting part for the fans, alongside the return of  .

 
 With just a couple of days for the historic milestone for RAW, TOI Sports had the opportunity to talk to Michaels as he talked about the DX 2.0, the legacy of Undertaker and much more.
 
 
 
 
 
 That is a tough question – I don’t know, part of me wants to think a lot... but I am going to pick random guys that I like – I am going to go with Finn (Balor) and AJ (Styles), but am also going to put in Kevin Owens. Obviously, a lot of them will be mix of oil and water for heaven sakes, and I don’t know how well they will get along, but certainly those three. And I would stick in a big Braun Strowman and you would like to have one X-PAC-ish like guy. I might jump into in to 205 Live and pick TJ Perkins, and that's it.
 
 
 
 That does happen quite a bit now, but there are two school of thoughts I suppose. You could be like lot of guys – like oh my god everybody is doing it or you get uptight about it. For me, I get older, I get a lot more sentimental – I smile every time I see it. I had no idea that move would become as big, as talked about, as it has been. And that is pretty neat. It is a move I took from gentleman Chris Adams way back when and not a lot of people did it and now, all sorts of people do it. And they don’t know Adams did it and they give me credit for that, and I have to give him the credit. It always makes me feel good that young people were watching me and it is always nice to be acknowledged that way, but the ultimate credit goes to Chris Adams.
 
 
 
 I think that legacy stuff is something I thought about, and I will say it is certainly not my place to thinking about somebody’s else’s legacy anyway.
 
 His is intact no matter what he does. It is more important for me that they have peace and contentment with this line of work and whatever they need to get it, I am behind. Walking away from a job when it is a big part of who you are, is a big big decision; something not to be taken lightly. And I think people often don’t understand that. But it is, especially for those who are doing it or have done it for so long and done pretty darn decent, it is a big thing to walk away, and I want to see him do that when he feels he is ready. That’s a decision for him individually. I recognise that this has a ripple effect on fans across the world, but it ultimately comes down to one guy and what matters to him. Since I know the guy, whenever he is ready, am going to support him.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Most likely his choice. If there is an opponent out there; and my guess is, that would not be tough to find, any one would like a crack at the Undertaker. One thing is for sure everyone else will be watching, but it is his decision. If indeed Taker could wrestle in  , that will be huge and there will be a lot of big things happening. Exciting things will be going on. I tell you this because, I have found out absolutely nothing, my guess is they might keep all of us in the dark for quite some time before the show starts.
 
 
 
 The first one, again after all these years later, I think being the only guy that still is there from the very first RAW. Second is my retirement; saying goodbye, both are big moments for me. Third will be a tough one, I had so many special moments. Trying to get to top three will be very challenging for me, the hour match with John Cena will be in right up there, some of the stuff I did with Chris (Jericho), Scott (Hall), Kevin (Nash), Hunter (Triple H) and the Undertaker, it is tough for me to pick three.
 
 
 
 From the legends it would be a toss-up between the Undertaker and Hunter, even though you guys have seen it a number of times, it is the old faithful thing and will be lot of fun. From Current roster also, it will be a tough one and if I am getting one shot, I guess it will be a tossup between Finn Balor and AJ Styles.
 
 
 
 I could not begin to guess – I want go with Braun Strowman because he is so big and dominating, but Finn, Kevin and there so many guys I would be thrilled to see do well. I am unbelievably excited about the women’s royal rumble. It will be fantastic to watch, and watching girls tearing the house down at NXT was fun and to see them do that at a global stage would be great. I do remember Becky Lynch saying that she will win, but I am sure lot of girls like Charlotte and Sasha might take exception, but Becky is the one I am watching out for. 
 
