Surat: A hot debate on ‘Surat Vs Navsari’ has started on social media following the recent TOI report on the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and the Gujarat government’s plan to build a bigger airport near Navsari.  While most of the social media users are in favour of this, a section of people have criticized the move of the AAI and the state government to build a bigger airport in Navsari saying that it will ruin the image of world’s fourth fastest growing city.  Replying to information sought under the Right to Information (RTI) Act by activist Rajesh Modi, the AAI stated that its chairman had written a letter on February 2, 2018, to chief secretary, Gujarat government, for a meeting to discuss and finalize land requirement for future development of Surat airport.  In a meeting held between the AAI chairman and chief secretary on February 23, 2018, apart from development of existing Surat airport, development of an alternative airport was also discussed, for which the state government agreed to identify a few sites.  Surat’s district collector in a note forwarded to AAI had stated that the required government owned land of about 1,500 hectares has been identified near Jalalpore taluka in Navsari district. The proposed site was about 35 kilometre from Surat, but the distance could be reduced to about 20 km by constructing a bridge over river Mindhola. The site is also near Navsari and the airport will serve the twin cities.  Residents debated that a new international airport near Ubhrat in Navsari on the south riverbank of Mindhola was more viable. If a bridge is constructed on Mindhola, the distance from Surat to new airport will get reduced to just 15 kilometre. Surat and Navsari have been declared twin cities and within five to 10 years, the new international airport will be under the ownership of Surat authorities.  Many cities in the country have been given airports nearby to facilitate fast-paced development of their airports. Pune is going to have a new airport at Chakan, Mumbai at Panvel, Hyderabad at Shamshabad, Ahmedabad at Fedara and Jaipur within the city limits. A social media blogger Jay Surti said, “It is not important whether Surat gets a big airport, but it will be advantageous to the residents if an airport is planned near Navsari. We just need to pressurize Gujarat government to sanction the project of a new airport for Surat outside the city limits.” Another social media activist Rohit Agarwal said, “Surat airport is facing height issues. Even if a case is filed in Supreme court, it till take years to clear the height issue. However, the decision of the AAI and the Gujarat government to have a bigger airport in Navsari is wise thinking. We need to support the decision so that the city gets a full-fledged airport.” Modi said, “Expansion of Surat airport is not possible as the government-owned land is not fully available near the existing airport. Majority of land is privately owned and the acquisition could take a long time. There is a big issue of underground ONGC pipeline and the buildings obstructing the funnel of the flight path. Thus, it is required that the AAI and the state government expedite the process to build a bigger airport near Navsari.”