NAGPUR: Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS)-backed strike of Ola and Uber cab owners and operators paralysed the services on Monday.

 Many citizens claimed that cabs were not available due to the daylong strike. This is the second strike in last one month against flawed policies of the cab aggregator companies.
 
 On Monday, at least 800 cabs were parked at   ground, which was the strike venue. The owners and operators started gathering at the ground from 9am.
 
 MNS state general secretary Hemant Gadkari claimed the strike was 100% successful. “We will fight for the cause of these youth who were cheated by the companies promising big deal, but now they are in acute financial crisis owing to lack of business from the companies,” said Gadkari.
 
 Though the owners voluntarily participated in the strike, an Ola spokesperson based in Mumbai told TOI, “Only 15% of the stakeholders were on strike. Many did not venture out due to fear of their vehicles being targeted.”
 
 She said, “Offering a seamless mobility experience has always been our priority. We are concerned about the inconvenience being caused to some of our customers and driver partners. We are doing our best to resolve the issue.”
 
 On the contrary, Gadkari claimed the strike received overwhelming support in the city. “If both the companies failed to look into the problems of these youth, the strike will be intensified,” he added.
 
 Among the major demands of the drivers and owners is consistent business as promised. “Ola has pushed in its own fleet of cabs which has hit our business. We bought taxis by procuring loan and now our income has dipped to the extent that we are unable to repay it,” said drivers.
 
 Gadkari charged these cab aggregators with luring unemployed youths with a promise of Rs1.25 lakh per month income. “This was basically done to gain foothold in the market. Now most of the business is being bagged by company cabs only leaving drivers and cab owners in the lurch,” he said.
 
 However, Ola spokesperson said, “Many drivers joined the strike out of fear. They are in touch with us and ready to be part of our team. The main demand of the drivers to remove the blacklisted tag is not acceptable.”
 
 
