NAGPUR: HSC students from arts stream appeared for sociology exam on Wednesday with most of them happy with their performance. They said that the paper was really easy. 

 Ritika Khanuja, a lecturer at  , said, “Average students can easily pass the paper as it was full of predictable questions. Referring to previous years’ papers must have helped them too.”
 
 About the tricky part, she said, “Question 6 revolved around causes of high birth rate and educational problems of tribal community. This was asked for 10 marks and must have caused a slight confusion for the students. Rest was just fine.”
 
 Many students have a mentality that sociology demands long answers and in doing so, they lose time and are unable to finish the paper. Some students faced the same situation as they claimed that they ran short of time.
 
 Student   said, “The paper had direct questions and posed no problems in understanding. The only issue was that the paper was lengthy. I had practiced many sample papers, so I knew all the tricks which I applied in the paper. This paper could be cracked only with practice, otherwise it was difficult for others.”
 
  from Adarsh Vidya Mandir said, “I found the paper easy. There was no problem in comprehending any question. I had done last-minute revision and hence, could remember all the points well. The only problem I faced was that our invigilator did not provide us supplements in the last 15 minutes, which created problems for many students.” 
 
 Fatima Akola said, “We had enough gap of 12 days to prepare for the paper. But the paper was very lengthy because of which many students had no choice but to skip the last question. Our teachers recommended us to focus on certain questions and luckily those appeared in the paper. Solving sample question papers helped me improve my speed, which played an integral role here. ‘Give reasons’-type question was the trickiest and just because I had enough practice, I could solve them.” 
 
 Ayesha Bidiwala said, “I took 15 minutes initially to decide which of the options to solve. I knew the answers to all the questions. Maintaining the speed was a challenge but I had practiced a lot, so I wrote rapidly and fluently. I knew the entire blueprint of the paper and which points were important. Hopefully, that will help me score more.” 
 
 
