MUMBAI: While watching   celebrate with his teammates after leading India the   triumph on Saturday in New Zealand,  , a well known coach and cricket promoter in the city, was reminded of the day when a confused-looking, nervous boy walked up to him in his academy at the Air India ground in Vakola.

 It was sometime in 2014. After his record 546-run feat for   in an inter-school game in 2013, Shaw hit a few more hundreds, before experiencing a sort of a free fall. The youngster would walk out at No 7 while batting for   in the   and hardly contribute much. The scores began to dry up.
 
 “He used to come to the Air India ground with his father, so I used to watch him bat many times,” recalls Singh, while narrating Shaw’s resurrection story.
 
 “One day, his father met me. ‘What is Prithvi doing,’ I asked him. He said, ‘Sir, Prithvi ka scores nahi ho raha hai (He isn’t able to score much). He asked me to see his son and find out why he wasn’t scoring ‘big runs’ like before. ‘Ask him to come for a fortnight, and let’s see how it works out,’ I told him.
 
 The coach then diagnosed the problem. “I was following his performances, and found out that he was getting good starts, but wasn’t able to convert them into big scores. He used to get out in the 20 to 40 phase most of the times, rather than getting the hundreds.
 
 It was then time to find a solution. “Watching him bat my nets, I concluded that he was a bit too desperate to score runs, which meant that he was trying to play all his shots early in his innings. I drilled into him that it was very important to play one ball at a time, with the right reaction. It meant that I wanted him to play on the merit of the ball, and not how he wanted to hit it.
 
 “I made a few adjustments in his technique, without making him realise what changes is going on. He was playing a little away from his body.”
 
 There was a need to work on the struggling youngster’s mind too. “It was important to work on his mental part. There were many things running in his brain. I told him just one thing: ‘Getting success early or late in life isn’t important. What’s important is to stay successful.”
 
 “After those sessions, I assured his father that Shaw will be back amongst big runs. “After that, he scored a lot of runs in inter-zonal games, local cricket, in the Under-19 Cooch Behar Trophy for Mumbai, and basically, everywhere that he played.”
 
 To work on improve his strength, Shaw underwent beach training in the monsoon season. “In 2016, I made a rule for Prithvi for our indoor sessions during the monsoons. He was allowed to play the first 20 balls, and then we set a target for him. He was supposed to get 120 in 140 balls. If he got out in the process, he had to go home and won’t get to bat again for the day. He managed to achieve his goal most of the times. During the nets that year, I asked him what his goal for the year was. He wanted to play in the Ranji Trophy. Later that year, he received a call-up for the Ranji Trophy semifinals.”
 
 Making his first-class debut in the Ranji Trophy semifinals, Shaw scored a match-winning century in the second innings for Mumbai against Tamil Nadu, before making a ton on his Duleep Trophy debut in Lucknow as well.
 
 With the right guidance, a prodigious talent was able to find his mojo, before it would have been too late.
 
 
