VISAKHAPATNAM: It’s been a torturous time for commuters waiting for APSRTC buses at various junctions in the city since the onset of summer. They have to bear the most of the raging summer   as most of the junctions lack a proper bus-stop, and even at places where there is a   bus shelter, there is no   or roof to screen them from the harsh sun. 

 As a result, hundreds of bus users are forced to wait under the shadow of trees, that is if they are lucky enough to find one nearby, or beside a pan shop till a bus arrives. 
 
 The state-run RTC buses are the backbone of the city’s transportation system, serving more than 6 lakh passengers per day. There have been many proposals to build new bus shelters and renovate the old ones, but barring talks there has been no progress at the ground level. APSRTC officials said over 4 lakh people — including nearly 1.5 lakh students, travel daily in nearly 640 city buses to and from five depots like Simhachalam, Waltair, Gajuwaka, Steel City and Maddilapalem. The city has around 250 bus shelters, but more than half of them are either damaged or have become the home of stray cattle and destitute people.
 
 Although government departments like APSRTC and civic bodies like the   (GVMC) claim that they are taking all measures to protect people from the heat in summer, many bus-stops in the city are without any shade.
 
 P  , a commuter who regularly travels from PM Balem to Dwarakanagar, said: “Many people in our area depend on RTC buses for their daily commute from our area to the core city, which is about 10 kilometres, but there are no proper bus shelters. In the rainy season, we can manage with umbrellas, but it is not possible to carry them during summer."
 
 RTC sources admit that many bus-stops need shelters and several have been encroached upon by commercial shops. Providing bus shelters is the responsibility of the GVMC, say APSRTC officials. “The civic body hardly considers our requests. Many times we have raised the issue of the bus shelter at Durgalamma temple junction in   market, which is always stacked with commercial goods. Passengers have to stand in the open. There are many such shelters in the city which need to be cleared and repaired by the civic body,” an RTC official said.
 
 Speaking to TOI, G Sudesh Kumar, regional manager of APSRTC, said it is the responsibility of the GVMC to repair and build new bus shelters. “The GVMC should take care of the city’s bus shelters whereas we take care of the shelters in the rural areas. We have built eight new bus shelters in Vizag rural,” Kumar said.
 
 Kumar, however, added that he will hold a meeting with his subordinates from all RTC depots in the city to collect data on the condition of bus shelters before approaching the GVMC.
 
 
