Nagpur: State minister of medical education Ravindra Chavan will be in city on Sunday to conduct an inspection of the biomedical waste disposal at both the medical colleges, the dental college and the Super Speciality Hospital run by the directorate of medical education and research (DMER).

 MLC Nago Ganar had raised the issue of improper biomedical waste disposal by the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) few days ago in the state assembly.
 
  When the dean replied that the waste was being disposed off properly, Ganar got angry. This led chief minister Devendra Fadnavis to direct the state minister of medical education to visit all government hospitals in Nagpur, inspect the disposal facility as well as discuss various other pending issues.
 
 DMER director Dr Pravin Shingare told TOI that besides the minister, medical education secretary Sanjay Deshmukh and various city MLAs will also be present during the meetings that will be held at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH). “We plan to put the MLAs and MLCS face to face with the deans of GMCH, IGGMCH and the Government Dental College to resolve the pending issues and discuss the incomplete projects.
 
 Dr Shingare said that issues related to projects like the Geriatric Centre, the Cancer Institute, Regional Institute for Paramedical Sciences, Nursing College building, etc, will be taken up in the meeting. 
 
 “Finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar has promised to allocate more funds in the financial year 2018-19 to the city colleges for completing these projects. We are making efforts to get funds from Shirdi Sansthan for installing MRI and CAT scan machines at IGGMCH. I had submitted an affidavit in the high court that these machines will be installed this year,” said Shingare.
 
 The DMER chief added that Rs 5-8 crore funds are needed for setting up a treatment plant and a sewage treatment plant at the medical colleges.
 
  The government should make provisions for these plants as well.
 
 
