JALANDHAR/PHAGWARA: A complete bandh was observed in   region of Punjab as almost all big and small commercial establishments remained closed on the call by Dalit organizations for a nationwide shutdown against alleged dilution of provisions of the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act by a Supreme Court order. There was sparse traffic on the national highway, state highways and link roads. Trains also remained halted at Jalandhar and Phagwara as protesters blocked railway tracks at different places.

 Thousands of Dalits, including women, came out on roads to protest the apex court decision that questioned misuse of the Act and need of immediate arrest of an accused in such case. Protesters not only blocked the national highway in Phagwara and Jalandhar, but even the state highways and link roads were obstructed at different places in the region. The state government had already ordered to keep public transport buses off roads.
 
 Private vehicles were either stuck at different places or they had to take alternative routes through villages. In Jalandhar, protestors sat on a dharna at the   (PAP) chowk from where thousands of vehicle pass every hour on normal days.
 
 At these protests different Dalit   also participated and women not only participated in huge numbers but they were also on the forefront of sloganeering. Members and organizations of different Dalit communities came together during the protests while BSP members and leaders also had a major presence in these protest.
 
 Though there was no single command of the protests in Jalandhar yet different organizations had arranged free food and water for the protestors at different places. In Jalandhar langar was served by Dalit activists between Ravidass Chowk and Nakodar chowk where major protest was held. Both the chowks also remained sites of major protests through put the day.
 
 At Phagwara, local activists of Sikhs For Equality served langar to the stranded train passengers at the platform.
 
 
 
