CHENNAI: Thousands of bus commuters were left stranded in various parts of the city on Thursday evening as   (MTC) employees went on a flash strike.

 Drivers parked their buses along the roads even as talks between various bus unions and the government over wage revision remained inconclusive around six in the evening. 
 
 The haphazard parking of buses affected movement of other vehicles during the peak hour resulting in traffic snarls on arterial roads. In some areas, passengers were forced to get down from buses halfway.
 
 At the CMBT in  , passengers blocked the road protesting against critical shortage in frequency of buses. Following this, police were deployed in various depots and  , the MTC headquarters, to avoid any untoward incidents. 
 
 More than 70 % of buses from  , Vadapalani, Tambaram, Avadi, Poonamalle and Iyyappanthangal depots were not operated, said MTC sources. 
 
 Many people who were returning home from offices, schools and colleges, were seen waiting in depots for hours. “Despite knowing that the strike is in progress, authorities did not take any remedial measures,” said R Naveen, a passenger at T Nagar depot. 
 
 Women, children and the elderly were the worst hit. Poor sanitation facilities and shortage of drinking water worsened their plight. Those from suburbs were severely affected. 
 
 Meanwhile, auto drivers and share autos fleeced the passengers. “Autos generally take Rs 150 for a ride to   from Thiruvanmiyur. On Thursday, they demanded around Rs 250-300,” said D Lakshmi, who was stranded at Thiruvanmiyur bus depot. 
 
 For the second day on Thursday, demand for app-based taxis also shot up after 8pm. Taxi drivers went on a strike on Wednesday demanding restructuring of fares. 
 
 Those from other parts of the state were left high and dry as they had no clue about how to commute after MTC buses started going off road. 
 
 “I am not familiar with the routes here nor I feel like travelling in auto. Hope the government came out with an alternative arrangement,” D Rajesh, who was to go to Theni, said. 
 
 On an average, 40 to 50 lakh people travel in 3,800 odd MTC buses daily.
 
 
