BENGALURU: Women travellers who hopped in and out of the   trains on Monday were a happy lot. For they did not have to push and shove their way into the congested coaches. Namma Metro’s new system of allowing only   to enter or exit through the first two doors of its trains kicked off on Monday, virtually turning the  .

 Though   had earlier said there’d be no segregation of passengers inside the trains, the first coaches of most trains on both lines had mostly women travellers. By April, the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) plans to earmark the first coach in its first sixcar train on the Purple Line exclusively for women.
 
 To get passengers accustomed to the new system, BMRCL put up ‘Entry for ladies only’ signages at the point where the first two doors of the trains are, besides making announcements about the same at stations and during the rides. Barricades were also placed in front of the doors and additional guards were deployed to restrict male passengers from entering through the first two doors. However, a few male members, mostly senior citizens, were allowed to enter through the women-only doors as they were being accompanied by their family members.
 
 “We aren’t restricting male passengers from entering the first coach, but it’s now mostly occupied by women because of this exclusive entry point,” said BMRCL managing director Mahendra Jain.
 
 “Initially, it was decided that this system would be in place only during peak hours, but, based on passenger requests, we have decided to extend it through the operational time,” he added.
 
 Jain, who visited six Metro stations and travelled in 20 trains on Monday, interacted with more than 300 passengers. “There is an overwhelming response from passengers, including women, who can now take the Metro without any hassle. Many people appreciated the new system,” he said.
 
 However, there was some confusion at most Metro stations, with staffers having to tell women passengers that the first two doors were exclusively for them, though they could also enter through the other doors.
 
 In fact, some couples, who took a train from Majestic station, had to travel in different coaches as guards prevented them from boarding together through the same door.
 
 Many passengers, especially working women, welcomed the new system, saying the trains were getting increasingly congested during peak hours. An average of 4 lakh passengers take the Metro daily, of which 40% are women.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
