JAIPUR: Inspired by television crime shows and online videos of gangsters, three youths including a   at gunpoint in Jaipur to storied debut in the world of crime. The crime aspirants however fumbled at the last moment when the jeweller   (40) chased them despite being shot at from close range by the accused on May 10 in Jagatpura. 

 The city police on Friday arrested   (22) and detained his 17-year-old aide. But the third accomplice is suspected to be a XI standard student who remains off the hook.
 
 "On May 10, the two youths had barged into a shop in Ram Nagariya area in Jagatpura. They were blandishing guns and fired at the jeweller, and fled on a high-speed bike. We formed a special team and have arrested one person while detained a minor. The third conspirator has been also been identified and would be detained soon," said deputy commissioner of police (Jaipur East) Kunwar Rastradeep.
 
 The initial interrogation has revealed that the trio wanted to become new "Dons" of the city. "They were in awe of gangsters like Lawrance Bishnoi and watched many videos on Youtube about how other criminals carried out such daring loots and robberies. They had also read newspapers reports about criminals and their activities," the officials said.
 
 Pratap Nagar SHO Islam Khan told TOI that a high-speed bike was recovered from them. "We had collected information about the gang and found that the loot bid was the handiwork of some first-timers. We searched for the trio and arrested Meena. He was a second year student of science," Khan said, adding that all three of them had attended the same school and became friends.
 
 According to Khan, two of them entered into the jewellery shop while third one helped in hatching the plot. "The CCTV footage of the shop had revealed their identity as none of them was wearing masks. We are checking their previous criminal record," he said. The jeweller was rushed to the hospital after the incident. The police said that he is out of danger.
 
 
