HYDERABAD: At a time when Hyderabad is aiming to better its Swachh Bharat ranking, waste segregation at source continues to be a challenge for the city’s civic body. Though the initiative of the   ( ) has managed to meet with some success in Hyderabad’s residential pockets, in the commercial areas the drive has been an absolute dud.

 At least that’s what a recce of the city’s bus-stops, marketplaces, junctions and crowded bylanes indicate.
 
 According to official records, GHMC has put in place 600 twin bins in these commercial zones. Yet, only few seem to be serving the purpose.
 
 Sample this: though specifically labelled as ‘dry’ and ‘wet’, the row of bins lining the crowded road leading up to Charminar are dumped with wastes of all kinds, arbitrarily -- cigarette packets, plastic bottles, eatables and even paper.
 
 Ditto, the blue-green bins at the Madhapur bus-stop. Meant primarily for paper and plastic, the blue bin here is found overflowing with wet waste while the green one has loads of dry garbage.
 
 The sightings at Abids, Jubilee Hills and  , are no different. Worse, when asked, people in these areas appeared little bothered by this practice.
 
 Ratan Satnarayan, a 65-year-old businessman said, “We don’t care about segregating waste and it doesn’t really matter in which bin you throw your wastes because ultimately they end up being dumped together.”
 
 Squarely blaming the GHMC for the poor adherence to the norm,  , a 36-year-old street vendor from the Charminar area, added, “The civic body should carry out awareness campaigns in this area which they have not done so far. As a result, illiterate people, who cannot read the message written on the waste bins, mix up dry and wet waste.”
 
 While GHMC officials admit to this problem in commercial spaces they say educating pedestrians is a tough difficult.
 
 “Though GHMC hosts regular awareness campaigns for shop owners and households, educating pedestrians isn’t easy. Hence, the problem in commercial zones,” said B  , additional commissioner, GHMC’s Swachh Bharat Mission.
 
