NEW DELHI: A 63-year-old man died trying to   his   who had fallen in a   at the   in Ghitorni village in south Delhi on Monday. He managed to push the child out of the water, but himself failed to escape drowning after his   got entangled in the rubber pipe in the tank.

 
 Senior police officers said the victim, Babu Ram, was a recently retired government employee and father of Sher Singh, who owns two shops in Ghitorni on Mehrauli-Gurgaon Road. The investigators have scanned the   camera footage available to check if there was anyone else on the premises at the time of the incident, but no evidence of foul play has emerged. An inquest under Section 174 of the CrPC has been initiated and a case will be registered later.
 
 Family members told the cops that on Monday morning, Ram, as usual, took two-year-old Siddharth to the plot at Ghitorni Pahadi where the family is constructing a new house. The retiree went there every day in the morning to fill the eight-foot-deep tank dug there to store water for construction needs. While the man was busy with the chore and the tank was almost filled, the boy, who was playing nearby, accidently fell into the water.
 
 The senior citizen jumped into the tank as Siddharth struggled to keep his face above the water. Ram managed to grab hold of his grandson and push him out of the tank. However, his own muscles were tiring by then and he could not get a grip on the slippery concrete inner walls of the tank. One of his legs also got entangled in the rubber pipe that was being used to fill the tank and he could not get out.
 
 Police officers said that the neighbours heard the cries of the boy and ran to the construction site. They discovered the boy sitting on the edge of the tank, while the elderly man could be seen in the water. They pulled Ram out and took him to a nearby hospital, but it was too late by then. His body was handed over to the family after an autopsy. Doctors also examined Siddharth and declared he had suffered no injuries.
 
