Nagpur: After going for online sale of treated teak seeds in October last, the state forest department has on Friday achieved another milestone by marketing its herbs under Gondwana brand through Amazon.

 The sale of host of products was formally launched by Maharashtra forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar in Nagpur on Friday. The minister activated the online sale with ‘Bija Glass’, made out of Bija species of wood, mahua jam and sharbat.
 
 “We are leading in sale of forest produce online,” said Mungantiwar while inaugurating the two-day senior forest officers’ conference in the city. Forest secretary Vikas Kharge, HoFF Shree Bhagwan, APCCF (non-timber forest produce) TK Choubey, who is said to have pursued with Amazon and getting FDA licence and CCF Gadchiroli WI Yatbon and senior officers were present.
 
 All the sustainably managed products under Gondwana Herbs have been manufactured with the help of locals in tribal-dominated Gadchiroli. The produce include 50 types of medicinal and herbal powders made from amla, giloy, adulsa, pals, harra, behada, bhuiamla, wood apple, amaltas, banyan fruit, tulsi, nirgundi, arjun, nut grass, castor, bitter gourd, neem and many other herbal and medicinal products. It also includes sharbat, jam, handwash and shampoo.
 
 To market Gondwana Herbs through Amazon, the process has started by opening a seller account. “Presently, Bija Glass is available at Amazon and creation of catalogue of other products has started. Packaging of products as per Amazon’s requirement is being done,” said senior forest officials.
 
 The Gondwana Herbs project was started on March 23, 2014 with funding from forest department and till date an investment of Rs2.81 crore has been made for infrastructure development, material and machines procurement. In 2016, the venture earned over Rs12 lakh.
 
 Gadchiroli officials said the basic objectives of Gondwana Herbs was to preserve and enrich the traditional health practices through vaidus (traditional healers), collection, processing and value addition of medicinal plants, employment to locals and extension of traditional health care knowledge and conservation of rare and endangered species.
 
 To give guidance and direction for growth, a Vaidu Mandal has been formed under Gadchiroli CCF to guide and supervise the processing and preparation of herbal medicines, to market them and maintain the plant and machineries and decide on entire affairs of Gondwana Herbs.
 
 “Forest department shares entire profit with the locals. Zilla Van Aushadhi Vaidu Mandal gets 50% profits while JFMC shares 25%. Remaining 25% is a reserved fund,” said CCF Yatbon.
 
 After opening the conference, Mungantiwar inaugurated the command room and high-tech GIS Cell at Van Bhavan followed by state’s first bamboo shop by Maharashtra Bamboo Development Board (MBDB) at Seminary Hills.
 
 
