HUBBALLI: With the Ramthal automated   system utilizing the Internet of Things (IoT) in   taluk of   district, it is hoped that the new system would change the course of irrigation in the state. 

 Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigam Limited (KBJNL) sources said the IoT project was implemented on a pilot basis to show farmers how the new automated drip irrigation method can save water, and a good quantity of crops can be grown at low cost. The Ramthal project was implemented with lift irrigation, replacing the open canal network with piped network for water supply up to farms and on farm micro irrigation. 
 
 KBJNL director Prof Aravind   told TOI that the automated systems are electromechanically programmed to control devices like pumping motor, control valves etc. “It ensures that what is drawn by end users only is lifted from the source, thus saving water. Less manual intervention ensures timely and precise irrigation. It offers operational ease as per crop water requirement, or rotation in irrigation operations is possible with a small change in programming. It facilitates irrigation data logging and monitoring,” he said. 
 
 A source in the Ramthal project said the benefits of the automated system are that irrigation can be increased up to 100%, compared to conventional projects. It improves water use efficiency beyond 90%, saves around 50% of power, ensures high efficiency in the use of fertilizers and no soil erosion, and maintains soil health. 
 
 
 
 
 Prof Galagali said the main difficulty in irrigation is that there is no way to control the release of water and monitor it on the field. “Since there was a lack of these two systems, farmers would release water at an odd time and go home and sleep. This would cause wastage of water. These three difficulties are eradicated in the automated system using IoT. We have replaced flow irrigation with drip irrigation, which ensures no wastage of water. This is controlled over the internet. The automated system releases water based on weather monitoring and forecast by the meteorological department,” he said. 
 
 The director said there is bound to be scarcity of water in future. “We can irrigate most of the farmland only by switching over to an efficient method of irrigation and a centralized control system with the help of IoT. The saving of water is possible only through pipe replacement, instead of canal and drip irrigation,” Galagali said.
 
 He said that individual farmers can switch over to the new method. “This is why we implemented it on a pilot basis. Many farmers are visiting demo plots and getting an idea about IoT. We hope this will change the course of irrigation in the state,” he said. 
 
 Water resources minister M B   said, “Israel is also curious about the success of the Ramthal project as the automated system is taken up on a large scale. Farmers can grow 23 varieties of crops in rain-fed areas if the advanced drip irrigation system is adopted,” he said. 
 
 
