Nagpur: Unbelievable it may sound but the 25 air-conditioned eco-friendly buses plying on 14 different routes are running almost empty anytime during the day. The ridership reports of the three months from November 2017 to January 2018 of the green buses accessed by TOI show that the target is far from being achieved. Despite offering a comfortable ride, these buses are getting a ridership of less than .83% of the 1.64 crore passengers who travelled in city buses. Only 1,36,709 commuters used the service in three months while the 25 buses made 14,797 trips. It was estimated that 5,17,895 commuters would travel during the three months in the green buses. The red buses, however, witnessed good response from the commuters. During the same period, red buses had witnessed ridership of around 1.51 crore, statistics from the department revealed. Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari had launched the country’s first eco-friendly ethanol-run bus project to be run by the NMC in 2014. However, it hasn’t evoked much enthusiasm from the commuters as far as ridership is concerned due to huge difference in the fares of the ethanol-run and red bus. TOI did a survey on at least five routes where these green buses are plying. Passengers admitted that commuting in a green bus is very nice experience but the difference in fares (over 53% and double on a few routes) deters them from commuting in these buses. “On Sitabuldi to Khaparkheda route, the green bus fare is Rs60, while that of a red bus is Rs34,” said Rajesh Sahare, a resident of Khaparkheda who commutes daily. Similarly, on Sitabuldi to Pardi via Gandhibag route, the green bus fare is Rs26 while the red bus charges Rs13 only. Nearly 50% trips made from November 1 to January 31 had 1-5 passengers. Besides, many trips had zero passengers, admitted conductors of these green buses. Interestingly, even as the response to the destination bus service has been lukewarm, the NMC is set to increase the fleet by adding 30 more buses taking the count of routes covered under the scheme to 55. Each low-floor green coloured AC bus can carry 35 passengers. In the past, TOI had reported that the daily operation report of the green buses had indicated that it cannot be affordable for the public. Not only the mileage of the green bus, at 1.33 to 1.56 kilometre per litre, is less than that of diesel-run buses, but the running cost too is 3-5 times more. The NMC is paying Rs85 per km to Scania Commercial Vehicles Pvt Limited, while the rate of red bus operators — Hansa City Bus Services (Nagpur) Private Limited, RK City Bus Operations Pvt Ltd, and Pune-based Travel Time Car Rental Private Ltd — is Rs45 per km for midi and Rs49 for standard sized buses. Transport committee chairman Bunty Kukde admitted that response to green buses is not satisfactory. He said this is due to difference is fares and added the department is working on a proposal to minimize the fares. The NMC has already expected a loss of Rs108 crore in running city buses in the current fiscal.  “Instead of incurring losses, the NMC should stop plying air-conditioned buses with lower ridership,” said leader of opposition in the NMC Tanaji Wanve.