BENGALURU: Political protests are rare around Vidhana Soudha and   – the state secretariat, where security is all pervasive. And yet   and JD(S) MLAs joined hands and staged a unique dharna near the life-size bronze statue of a meditating Mahatma Gandhi in Vidhana Soudha premises against BJP, even as B S   was swornin as new chief minister.

 The parties alleged that BJP was misusing the governor’s office to capture power. Senior Congress leaders Siddaramaiah, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Mallikarjuna M Kharge, G Parameshwara and KC Venugopal sat under a blazing sun. Soon they were joined by former Prime Minister HD   and former chief minister HD  . The senior leaders looked weary under the scorching sun and Siddaramaiah was seen glugging water. Congress leader DK Shivakumar soon came to their rescue, providing caps.
 
 Political animosity was forgotten as Siddaramaiah, Kharge, Gowda and Kumaraswamy sat next to each other and exchanged pleasantries. All of them wore black arm bands and shouted slogans against Yeddyurappa and governor Vajubhai R Vala.
 
 Addressing protesters, Siddaramaiah said, “BJP has just 104 MLAs and cannot prove their majority on the floor of the House. We have done the right thing by approaching Supreme Court, BJP will lose the legal battle. All Congress MLAs are with us. MLA Anand Singh is out of station on personal work and MLA   is unwell. All other MLAs are with us,’’ Kumaraswamy alleged that BJP in 2008 had “bought” MLAs by paying Rs 30 crore and made them resign. “They are planning the same tactics now but they will not work this time,” he said. He claimed 12-15 BJP MLAs were with them and ready to resign.
 
 Congress chief Rahul Gandhi called former PM HD Deve Gowda on Thursday and the two are said to have discussed the situation in the state.
 
 Party sources said the conversation lasted 10 minutes. Rahul reportedly apologised for making personal attacks against Gowda during the poll campaign. “The duo decided to stay united and fight for a common cause,’’ a source privy to the conversation said.
 
 Rahul also wished Gowda in advance for his 85th birthday falling on Friday.
 
 
