CHENNAI: The could perhaps explain the fear of ‘child lifters’ that has to led to a series of lynchings in Tamil Nadu: Every day, at least five children go missing in the state.

 As per State Crime Records Bureau (SCRB) statistics, 14,716 children were reported missing between 2011 and 2015, and the police were able to trace 14,174 of them. While 535 children are yet to be traced, the police have dropped investigations into cases of seven missing children. In Chennai alone, at least 2,586 people have gone missing during the same four-year period, and 141 children are yet to be traced.
 
  
  
 
 In the past 24 hours, SCRB statistics show, about 13 children went missing across the state and seven of them were traced within a few hours. While 2,015 children have gone missing across the state in the past one year, as many as 2,373 children were rescued in the same period, some of them reported missing in previous years, by all the agencies involved. 
 
 Apart from the regular investigative methods used, an integrated virtual space for all stakeholders including   (CPSU), State Child Protection Society/Units and District Child Protection Units (DCPU), Child Care Institutions (CCIs),  ,   (CWCs),   (JJBs), etc., has come in handy for the investigating agencies in the 35 states and Union Territories, /UTs. In Tamil Nadu, anyone can access http://trackthemissingchild.gov.in/trackchild/tamilnadu, hosted by the Union ministry of women and child development, for details about missing children.
 
 On their part, the police say they are doing everything they can in this regard. Director general of police (DGP) T K Rajendran has instructed all his officers to slap abduction case if there is any specific allegation in complaints received.
 
 While investigators are questioning all those arrested in ‘child lifting’ cases to see if they are linked to larger networks, some of them have confessed to stealing babies from hospitals and from couples with illegitimate children. As per statistics submitted by the child trafficking wing of the CB-CID to the Madras high court, about 15,200 children in the state had either been stolen or gone missing from their families in the past five years.
 
 ‘Citizens Platform’, which is a group of several other NGOs’ work together to trace the missing and stolen children in the state, has made a recommendation to Union minister for women and child development Maneka Gandhi, seeking installing of a mechanism to prevent babies being stolen from maternity hospitals.
 
 
