Vadodara: A female health worker who was sitting on ‘dharna’ outside city-based   to protest against the hospital’s decision to remove contractual staffers, collapsed after falling unconscious on Friday morning. 

 As the hospital has changed contract of an agency, around 190 staffers who were earlier hired by the agency, were left jobless. 
 
 The contract workers are staging protest outside the hospital premises since the last five days. 
 
 On Friday, a 45-year-old female health worker, Pratiksha  , collapsed during the protest programme. 
 
 According to the agitators, Valand was depressed since the protest had not led to any constructive outcome for her. 
 
 “She is the sole bread earner for the family and hence she was depressed and fell unconscious. We immediately called 108 ambulance service and she was shifted to GMERS, Gotri Medical College where she has been admitted. Her condition is stable now,” said Gopal Baria, 
 
 Holding placards with demand to re-instate them, the agitators were staging protest by begging on the streets outside the hospital premises when the incident happened. 
 
 The agitators have also approached the labour commissioner office demanding that the office should direct the hospital authorities to re-instate them. 
 
 The hospital authorities, however, said that they have nothing to do with the agitation as it was the agency which had hired the contract workers. 
 
 “In line with our vision to provide best in class healthcare services to our patients,   has cancelled the service contract of the agency that provided outsourced contractual daily labour to one of our hospitals, at   road,” a release issued by the hospital said. 
 
 “While doing so the company has followed all the legal compliances and the terms of agreement between Sterling and old contractor has been adhered to. A new contractor has already been assigned to provide outsourced contractual staff and patient care services are running smoothly in the hospital,” it further mentioned. 
 
 
