CHANDIGARH: The   research scholars of the Panjab University (PU) have not received their monthly scholarship stipend from the last three months. Following this, they have submitted a representation of the problems they are facing to the vice-chancellors' office. Some students have a back log of even four months, affecting their studies.

 The research scholars say that the biggest problem is that they don't have anybody to listen to their grievances. The authorities tell them to go to Delhi but the scholars say they can't afford to miss out on their studies and visit Delhi.
 
 "We have not received our monthly stipend for the last three months. Not only this, there is always a backlog as far as receiving of stipends is concerned. We are around 80 CSIR research fellows, who have not received their monthly scholarship money," said  , a research scholar in the geology department.
 
 The CSIR fellows get a stipend of Rs 25,000 plus Rs 5,000 as house rent allowance ( ). "We have submitted a memorandum to the vice-chancellor of the Panjab University. Students that are pursuing PhD in various science departments are facing crisis due to regular delays in their scholarships. Due to such financial crunch, we are not able to pursue our regular research and our day-to-day life is being affected. 
 
 "As 'Make in India' cannot be made possible without proper research and development, slogans of government seem to be sham as there is no fund regulation and transparency," added Shubham.
 
 "We have been communicating with the funding agencies but it is likely that they are also facing problems. We have been making efforts and will continue to do so," said  , former dean of research promotion cell.
 
 "This is not just scholarship. It more more like a salary. We don't take money from our homes. So, this is what we are entirely dependent upon. Our food and studies, everything is possible only because of the stipend we get," said  , another senior research fellow. 
 
 He added that in the absence of regular funding, the research scholars have no other option but to go and find part-time jobs.
 
 "If our issue is not resolved, we will launch a huge protest in the university in the coming days. All the research scholars have agreed to join us in solidarity," Garg added.
 
 
