CHANDIGARH: There is an unauthorised construction on a huge chunk of 254 acres of land, situated outside   of the city’s 11 villages, which has now turned out a major cause of worry for the Chandigarh administration. Significantly, the area under unauthorised development beyond the abadi areas is three times the abadi area in some of the   of the city. Finance secretary-cum-urban planning secretary of Chandigarh administration has called a meeting of all concerned officers on Tuesday to discuss the matter in detail.

 These 11 villages are Kaimbawala, Khuda Ali Sher, Khuda Jassu, Khuda Lahora, Sarangpur, Dhanas, Behlana,   Khurd, Raipur Kalan, Mauli Jagran and  .
 
 A detailed report prepared by the Chandigarh administration of rural development and Panchayat department revealed that peripheral areas of Daria village, adjoining the Chandigarh railway station, is leading in the list by covering a total 102 acres of areas with unauthorized construction. “Daria village, which has 4 acres under the abadi has 102 acres of unauthorized construction around it. Due to proximity to the railway station, large number of godowns, commercial establishments have come up in and around the village in violation of the Periphery Control Act 1952,” the report says.
 
 After Daria, Kaimbwala village is on the second position having unauthorized construction on 36 acres of land, followed by Raipur Khurd, Khuda Jassu, Behlana, Khuda Ali Sher with illegal constructions on 30 acres, 25 acres and 17 acres of land respectively.
 
 The detailed report further says, “The villages have recorded high rate of population growth in the last decade during 1991-2001. The rate of population growth of Chandigarh’s rural areas was almost four times the city as these villages are meeting some of the unmet demand for cheaper housing. Considering the large population pressure, these rural areas are likely to be subjected to further pressure due to lack of space within the sectoral grid and external pressure of development around the neighbouring towns falling in close vicinity add to it. The construction or extension of major roads, along which these villages fall, will further add to the pressure.”
 
 
