KOLKATA: Twenty-eight-yearold Deb Chakraborty rarely had two square meals a day. A basic amenity like a fan is not always available to him. A resident of an otherwise posh neighbourhood in Santoshpur, he had recently showed signs of depressions having failed to secure a job and was under medication. Of late, though, he had been frequenting Jadavpur University and dreaming of getting a job in a“more equitable world”.

 For his well-wishers, including his parents, his sudden arrest has brought nothing but “more shame and misery”. “He has understood his mistake. When I met him at the Tollygunge police station on Wednesday, I told him he acted only on the advice of his new friends and not his family,” said his mother who did not wish to be named fearing backlash in their locality that was “increasingly getting polarized”.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Deb was one of the seven Radical members arrested by the police for vandalizing and pouring black ink on the bust of Syama Prasad Mookerjee at   on Wednesday. His wellwishers had no clue of the incident, which is creating political ripples across the city, until Wednesday evening when a call came from the police. “Their family is not in a position to afford alawyer. The sole income of the family is the rent they earn and it’s difficult to sustain three members with that,” said a family friend.
 
 His father told TOI his son had left on Wednesday early morning saying he was going to meet a few acquaintances. “His mother kept waiting with his lunch. This is not the son we know at home — after my retirement, he always dreamt of a stable job. Revolution or protest rarely figured in his interaction with us,” he said.
 
 The family members say they have never seen a police station before, save the courts. Deb, incidentally, is the only accused from Kolkata, the others are from North 24 Parganas, Hooghly and  .
 
 “They are openly accepting their crime but refusing to divulge if others were involved or if there were some Maoist leaders who had instructed them to carry out the vandalism,” claimed an officer.
 
 Abhishek  , their leader, has a past that has deep link with Maoists. “This led to his arrest by Kolkata Police STF in 2012,”said an officer.
 
 Aresident of   in Hooghly district and a Jadavpur University dropout, Mukherjee was one of the founders of the Forum for Arts Students (FAS) that still has significant clout in the institution. He was also the state secretary of the Maoists’ students’ wing, Revolutionary Students’ Front (RSF), until it was disbanded in 2005. The new students’ outfit of the Maoists, the United Students’ Democratic Front (USDF), founded in 2006, is perceived to be his brainchild before he developed cracks within it and floated Radical after the ‘Hok Kolorob’ movement. His wife   was arrested during the antieviction movement at Nonadanga off Anandapur.
 
 “In March 2010, there were rumours that Mukherjee was killed during a gunfight between the security forces and the guerrilla squad guarding Kishenji,” said a source.
 
