NEW DELHI: A political blame game erupted over the Bawana fire tragedy after north corporation mayor Preety Agarwal was allegedly caught on camera whispering “we cannot say anything on this because the licensing of the factory is with us”. 

 The Aam Aadmi Party slammed BJP on the issue even as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal retweeted the   clip and a message embedded into it that termed the remarks as “shameful”. Things had turn ugly on Saturday night itself as two groups, claiming to be supporters of Kejriwal and Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari, reportedly came to blows outside the factory.
 
 On Sunday, Agarwal accused her opponents of politicising the issue by “twisting her remarks out of context”. She said: “It is shameful that such a sensitive matter is being used for politics. I was only telling workers not to say anything without being properly briefed on the matter (of licencing).” She claimed that the site came under the purview of DSIIDC and the civic body didn’t have any role in managing it. “We have ordered the commissioner to come up with a detailed report within 48 hours,” Agarwal said.
 
 BJP’s Delhi unit stood by the mayor. It said that, in 2015, the north corporation had adopted a resolution — and forwarded it to Delhi government — to get the civic body’s power to issue factory licences repealed. BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi said Bawana was a confirmed industrial area maintained by DSIIDC. “The city government is responsible for ensuring that no explosives are manufactured in any confirmed industrial area,” she said. Lekhi, as well as MP Udit Raj, alleged that adequate medical facilities were not made available to the victims in the city government’s hospitals.
 
 Hitting back,   Delhi convener Saurabh Bharadwaj said: “BJP is trying to create a wrong impression among people about who’s responsible for the tragedy.” He added that only the BJP-ruled civic body was to blame for the incident.
 
 Congress, too, joined the political slugfest with its Delhi unit chief, Ajay Maken, demanding a judicial inquiry into the incident. Maken claimed that he would “expose” both the city government and the civic body. Party functionary Sharmistha Mukherjee has been tasked with submitting a report within two days on the conditions in which women were made to work in the factory. 
 
 Both Congress and BJP demanded that the government pay a compensation of Rs 50 lakh each to the kin of the deceased. Congress president Rahul Gandhi condoled the death of people in the tragedy and wished a speedy recovery of the injured.
 
 
