Mumbai: Creditors of   are divided over whether to call for fresh bids for the troubled metals company or to give original participants —   and   — the statutory 30 days to comply with insolvency rules. The creditors had initially disqualified both of them after they failed to meet eligibility criteria. But   directed the creditors to consider their offers and give them time to rectify any shortcomings in their bids. 

 
 The creditors opened the two bids for Essar Steel on Tuesday. Sources said ArcelorMittal’s offer was substantially higher than that of Numetal’s. The meeting, attended by over three dozen representatives from the creditors, started at 1 pm and lasted for over six hours. It, however, remained inconclusive on the bidders’ eligibility issue.
 
 Some lenders were of the opinion that calling for new bids by throwing open the process to the world at large would be the best way forward since the two original bidders, too, seem to be fine with another round of auctioning. 
 
 In the second round, Essar Steel promoter Ravi Ruia’s son had dropped out of Numetal to comply with the eligibility rules, making way for   to be part of the VTB-led consortium. ArcelorMittal also participated in the second round. And so did Vedanta. After the recent NCLT order, JSW said that it would participate on its own if there is a third round of bidding. 
 
 Most lenders felt that there wasn’t enough time to go for a third round as the deadline to complete the process ends on May 28. NCLT had extended the deadline by a month. Lenders also said that going by the NCLT order, if deficiencies were found in the original bids, both ArcelorMittal and Numetal would need to be given 30 days to rectify their bids. A final decision is likely to be taken at the next creditors’ meet on April 27. 
 
 At Tuesday’s meeting, the creditors didn’t take any decision on the 29A eligibility rule applicable to Numetal and ArcelorMittal. Section 29A prohibits persons from submitting proposals for an insolvent asset if they have an interest in a non-performing asset for more than a year, unless they clear all pending dues. ArcelorMittal had a stake in an  , which it sold days before submitting the bid for Essar Steel. NCLT had asked the company to clear all dues relating to the asset. The rule also prohibits persons connected to existing promoters of an insolvent company from participating in the bidding process. This is the reason for Ravi Ruia’s son’s exit from Numetal.
 
 
