Visakhapatnam: A ‘kaleidoscope of emotions’ led 28-year-old Mariia Dubyna, a   working as an HR consultant from Poland, to   around the world. Dubyna likes to travel  , explore new places and meet different people. Her wanderlust brought her to the city of Destiny on Tuesday.

 With the motto, ‘Discover, Learn, Smile’, Dubyna has visited more than 40 countries, including the United States of America, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Italy, Argentina, Peru and Cambodia. 
 
 This is her seventh visit to India and her first visit to Andhra Pradesh.
 
 The young explorer said, “Since childhood, travelling and exploring new places have been my dream. I was only six when I promised myself that I would create my own route map to go around the world. However, as I grew up, my first goal was to be successful at my job and then use the money to travel and gain experience.”
 
 Stating that travelling allows one to explore both external as well as our ‘internal’ world, Dubyna said that as a woman solo rider, health and safety are the two major criteria. “As a safety measure, I make sure to stay connected with my family, irrespective of where I am in the world. I do not venture out during late hours and I also make sure that I am aware of the places that are out of bound. During difficult situations, yoga and meditation have helped me a lot,” added the adventurer who has been travelling alone since 2008.
 
 Speaking to TOI about what she loves most about India, Dubyna said that westerners are materialistic unlike Indians who are happy with what they have. “There is a lot to learn from Indians; their values, cultures and traditions. After visiting India, I have become somewhat addicted to turmeric and I use it in almost everything I make. I also purchased a pressure cooker to cook rice and a dosa pan (a griddle) as I love Indian cuisines.”
 
 Dubyna also revealed that she enjoys interacting with young girls across the globe and motivate them to follow their dreams. She said that she has trained three girls in Poland to be able to embark on solo journies.
 
 The solo traveller plans to visit India again in September this year to participate in the marathon that is scheduled to be held in Ladakh.
 
 
