The 30th edition of the Royal Rumble is a historic one with two Royal Rumble matches on the card – the first-ever women’s Royal Rumble match and the traditional 30-men Royal Rumble match. Apart from the two blockbuster matches the match card also features two very strong Title matches as well, with the Universal Championship on the line with three behemoths in   (c), Kane and Braun Strowman colliding in the ring.

 
 The WWE Championship will be defended by AJ Styles and rather peculiarly in a 2-on-1 Handicap Match against Sami Zayn and Kevin Owens. The tag titles will also on the line from both RAW and SmackDown with Seth Rollins & Jason Jordan defending the RAW titles against Cesaro & Sheamus. The Usos will have to go through a 2-out-of-3-Falls Match against Chad Gable & Shelton Benjamin.
 
 Interestingly, the Intercontinental Title and US Title have not been advertised on the card so far. That essentially means Bobby Roode (US Champion) and The Miz (Intercontinental Champion) may take part in the rumble match.
 
 The event starts 7 ET/4 PT US time. In India, the live coverage will start from 3:30 am IST on 29th January. The pre-show starts 3:30 am IST, while the main show will be telecasted live from 5:30 pm IST onwards.
 
 The winner of the massive melee will go on to challenge for a World Championship at WrestleMania 34. The 30th anniversary of Royal Rumble will come to the WWE Universe from the Wells Fargo Center in Philadelphia
 
 
 
 In the historic event, the same rules that apply to the Men’s Royal Rumble Match will apply to the Women’s. Thirty Superstars will enter, one at a time, at consistent intervals. An elimination occurs when a Superstar is sent over the top rope with both feet touching the floor, and the last woman standing will receive a Championship Match at WrestleMania. With 30 spots available in the ground-breaking contest, the competition promises to be as fierce as it gets. 16 Superstars have officially declared so far including: Asuka, Ruby Riott, Liv Morgan, Sarah Logan, Sasha Banks, Nia Jax, Bayley , Naomi, Natalya, Sonya Deville, Mandy Rose, Mickie James?, Tamina Snuka, Lana, Carmella, Becky Lynch, Dana Brooke, Alicia Fox.
 
 
 
 A tradition dating back to 1988, the Royal Rumble Match starts with two participants, and new Superstars entering the ring every two minutes. This continues until all 30 Superstars have entered the bout. Elimination occurs when a Superstar is thrown over the top rope and both of his feet hit the floor. The last Superstar in the ring will be declared the victor. So far, the following the Superstars have been announced for the gigantic match:  , Finn Bálor, Randy Orton, Shinsuke Nakamura, The Miz, Elias, Baron Corbin, “Woken” Matt Hardy, Bray Wyatt, Aiden English, Rusev, Titus O'Neil, Apollo Crews, Tye Dillinger, Big E. Kofi Kingston, Xavier Woods
 
 
 
 
 
 There is certainly a line between honor and hubris, and WWE Champion AJ Styles is straddling it. After losing non-title singles matches to Kevin Owens and Sami Zayn on the Dec. 26 and Jan. 2 editions of SmackDown LIVE, respectively, thanks in large part due to interference in both bouts, The Phenomenal One took drastic action, and, in a moment of frustration, challenged his foes to a 2-on-1 Handicap Match! SmackDown LIVE General Manager Daniel Bryan thought it was a brilliant idea, not only making the Handicap Match official, but announcing that the WWE Title Match would happen at Royal Rumble, much to the shock of all parties involved, including SmackDown LIVE Commissioner Shane McMahon. Will Styles add to his incredible legacy by overcoming such a daunting challenge to retain the WWE Title at Royal Rumble? Or will Owens & Zayn continue to run roughshod over Team Blue by benefitting from their numbers advantage and add the WWE Championship to their arsenal?
 
 
 
 
 Though a knockdown drag-out showdown between Strowman and Kane on the Dec. 11 episode of Raw was meant to decide Lesnar’s pay-per-view opponent, Raw General Manager Kurt Angle should have known that the hard-hitting bout was destined to descend into all-out chaos. On the other hand, perhaps he did have such an instinct because, after the match ended without a winner, Angle can now offer the WWE Universe a colossal free-for-all pitting the three forces of nature against each other in one historic clash. Certainly, Lesnar has earned every bit of his place of prominence by outbattling some of the biggest names of WWE to stand alone at the top of the mountain. Enter Braun Strowman, an absolutely dominant Superstar who has left a path of destruction in arenas all over the world. Moreover, when he battled The Beast for the Universal Championship at WWE No Mercy, there was no fear in his eyes nor in his actions. However, despite The Monster Among Men’s penchant for brutality, it would be a huge mistake to discount the 320-pound-plus demon in the room. After all, Kane is the most sinister Superstar in the fray and boasts an extensive history of in-ring destruction. Nothing is off limits for Kane when it comes to getting the best of his adversaries, and the ruthless Big Red Machine will certainly be at his most sadistic while battling for the Universal Title.
 
 
 
 
 
 
