Nagpur: Principals, teachers and coordinators of Children’s Movement for Civic Awareness (CMCA) will be meeting on Wednesday for an interactive session to mull over ideas for effective social and civic campaigns. At present, the programme runs in around 10 schools of the city for Std 7 and 8 students with the aim of inculcating civic and democratic values and citizenship. “We ask schools to give us one period from the timetable once a week in which our volunteers create social and civic awareness. This will help make them active citizens who understand the importance of correcting the wrongs themselves instead of complaining,” says Neeta Kale who runs the programme in the city. CMCA was launched in Bangalore by an NGO 17 years ago and is being run in Nagpur for last eight years. It is free of cost. Clearing up the waterfront after idol immersions, holding a mock gram panchayat meet to solve various issues of the village members or even presenting a rose to those who are adhering to traffic rules by keeping off the zebra line or wearing a helmet or seat belt are activities performed by Std 7 and 8 students of various schools under this initiative. Learning is done through various civic campaigns which have children in the forefront. “We took up a cleaning campaign with 600 children at Futala Lake after the immersions with remarkable results. It left the students very motivated,” says Kale. Volunteers visit the schools who enlist for the programme and tell how each child or home can initiate changes in attitudes through games activities films and other aids. The programme works wonders for volunteers too who are drawn from the society and are anywhere between 22 to 60 years of age. “Telling a young child to be the face of change is very motivating,” says Pallavi Upganlawar a homemaker and a volunteer for past four years. “It taught me a lot too and I gained tremendous self-confidence when I saw the children execute what I had taught them,” she says. “My levels of civic awareness have risen as I have learnt so much while teaching it to students and the training itself is very educative,” says Mamta Thuteja another volunteer. “I prepare the module after much research like I did for the mock gram panchayat at St Ursula School through which I too learnt about governance,” she says. Adding to this Pranoti Gadre, who is self-employed but volunteers for CMCA, says, “As a parent too I learn how to take up such issues with my children. Besides the group of volunteers is a very good one and we have lots of positive interaction.”