PUNE: “We’re just showing that it can be done,” said regional postmaster-general   as technicians guided a   carrying a few postcards towards the Swargate post office. The effort was being undertaken before chief guests district guardian minister   and police commissioner Rashmi Shukla.

 The drone was one of two proofs-of-concept that the postal department displayed at the MAHAPEX, the state-level philately exhibition. While the department may have showed off the concept, it is not expected to enter commercial operations any time soon because of the sheer volume of mail dispatched and delivered by the   each day.
 
 “A lot of research and development needs to be undertaken before drones can be used commercially, because the equipment that is available these days does not carry much weight. But this is probably the first attempt to deliver letters via drones anywhere in the world,” shared Sawaleshwarkar.
 
 Also on show at the exhibition was the first demonstration on how to use a Segway, a brand of sensor-based personal mobility device, to deliver letters, as a typical khaki-clad postman arrived in the hall on a   and delivered the newly-launched special covers to Shukla and Bapat.
 
 “The Segway operates by way of sensing your balance on it. If you lean forward the Segway moves ahead and it stops if you lean back. I think it can be operated in various parts of the city quite effectively,” said a postman.
 
 The department also showed off its new cutting-edge technology in the actual creation of stamps. It presented Shukla and Bapat with   that feature their respective pictures. The Pune General Post Office’s extension counter had a service where selfies could be replicated onto usable stamps.
 
 Eventually, tradition still ruled the roost both in the 340-frame competitive section, as well as the special invitees who brought their award-winning collections from all over India. A vast majority of the invitees are from  . A large number of collectors, some from small-town Maharashtra, were also present in large numbers, essentially looking to expand their collection.
 
 “Do you have those triangular stamps from Monaco,” a Nashik-based collector asked LR Narayanswamy, a stamp collector and dealer from Coimbatore, looking to start her Monegasque collection.
 
 “I do orders from all over India, as I have developed a good collection from across the world, both of stamps and postal literature. I have lots of airmail and registered letters as well. People text their requirements and I send it to them,” Narayanswamy said, while setting up his stall.
 
 Meanwhile, Chennai-based S Aravamuthan still sells philatelic accessories such as albums, mounts, adhesives, along with bags of categorized stamps from all over the world.
 
 
