PATNA: The   ( ) has decided to adopt the National Academic Depository (NAD) to ensure online access to and retrieval of Class X and XII certificates.

 The decision was taken at the BSEB governing body meeting presided over by its chairman Anand   on Saturday. Kishor said with the process of dematerializing its Class X and XII certificates, the board would be able to curb the menace of fake certificates. The students would also not need physical authentication of their certificates during admission in higher educational institutions and recruitments as the academic award on NAD also validates and guarantees its authenticity.
 
 The NAD is an innovative initiative of Union ministry of human resource department to enable digital issuance, storage and access of all academic certificates. “Under NAD, every student will have a digital account and all certificates issued by the board will be credited in digital format to their accounts. Students will be identified uniquely by their Aadhaar number. NAD will eliminate paper, mitigate the risk of fake and forged certificates and enable online, electronic authentication of certificates by employers and higher education institutions,” Kishor said.
 
 “NAD will provide digital or a printed copy of the degree or academic award with security features to students or other authorized users. It will verify academic certificates online on the same day of request initiated by any authorized user. It maintains the authenticity, integrity and confidentiality of its database,” he said.
 
 BSEB has also sought public opinion on the regulation of new affiliation bylaws for secondary and senior secondary schools in state on its official website for the next 30 days. 
 
 Kishor also asked all district administrations to prepare four model examination centres named as ‘Pink examination centre for girls’ for ensuing matriculation (Class X) examination from February 21.
 
 “Only girl students will write their papers at these model centres where invigilators, magistrates and police officers will be all women,” he said.
 
 
