PATNA: College and university teachers in   are sore over the continued erosion of the autonomy of universities.

 Appointment of retired   personnel as registrars, FIR against college teachers for their reported ‘failure’ to report for evaluation of intermediate examination answer books and payment of salaries to teachers and non-teaching staff through treasury smack of increasing governmental control on the institutions of higher education, they feel.
 
 According to   (PU)’s former senator Shiv Jatan Thakur, salary payments through treasury are violative of Sections 45 and 52 of the Patna University Act, 1976 under which salary of the university employees is mandated to be paid out of university funds, not at all from Public Liability account. 
 
 He also criticized the Patna DEO for instituting an FIR against many of the university teachers for their alleged failure to evaluate the intermediate answer sheets. Even though Section 9 and 10 of the Bihar Examination Conduct Act, 1981 provide for punitive action for refusal of teachers to evaluate the answer sheet, the fact remains that appointment letters were not even delivered to the most of the teachers. Referring to Section 35CrPC, Thakur said any punitive action without valid reason for administrative vexation is a criminal negligence of duty for which guilty officials deserve disciplinary action.
 
 Taking exception to the appointment of retired Army personnel as registrars, All India Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations general secretary Arun Kumar warned of a nationwide agitation if the government attack on the the university autonomy continued. “Will the system of higher education improve merely by changing the university campuses into military cantonments?” he asked. 
 
 He called upon the chancellor and the CM to intervene immediately in the matter as autonomy was essential for the universities for their academic growth and excellence.
 
 Meanwhile, Patna Science College’s retired physics teacher Anil Kumar Verma has welcomed the appointment of retired Army personnel as registrars and hoped there would be improvement in the working of the universities now. Even the posts of proctor and students' welfare dean should be filled by Army personnel, he added. 
 
 
