CHENNAI: M  , 74, husband of jailed AIADMK leader  , passed away at 1.30am on Tuesday at Gleneagles Global Health City, where he was admitted for a few days.

 “Every possible attempt was made to sustain his revival. However, despite our best efforts, he was unable to recover,” hospital chief operating officer Shanmuga Priyan said in a statement.
 
 His wife Sasikala, who is undergoing imprisonment in the Parapana Agrahara prison, was granted parole for 15 days. She reached Thanjavur on Tuesday evening to pay last respects to her husband and perform rituals.
 
 Natarajan had undergone a seven-hour dual organ transplant in October 2017. He got organs from 19-yearold Karthik N, who was declared brain dead after an accident in Pudukottai. After transplant, he was in the hospital for a month, before doctors declared him fit for discharge.
 
 Two weeks ago, Natarajan returned to the hospital for a series of tests. On March 16, his condition turned critical following bilateral chest infection.
 
 “He was on ventilator support. We also did a slow dialysis as his urine output dropped,” said a senior doctor. On Monday, doctors did a tracheostomy – so oxygen can be directly pushed into his lungs.
 
 On Monday, doctors did a tracheostomy – so oxygen can be directly pushed into his lungs.Natarajan’s body was taken from the hospital to his Besant Nagar residence, where it was kept for the public to pay their homage. There was no condolence message from either chief minister   or deputy chief minister   nor did any representative of the government pay homage. But several opposition leaders, including DMK working president M K Stalin, TNCC chief S Thirunavukkarasar, VCK leader Thol Thirumavalavan MDMK general secretary Vaiko, Dravida Kazhagam chief K Veeramani, besides film director Bharathiraja and scores of others paid homage.
 
 Later, on Tuesday afternoon, his body was taken from Chennai and it reached his native Vilar village in Thanjavur district in the evening. Arrangements have been made for public to pay homage, and the cremation will take place on Wednesday.
 
 Natarajan came into prominence as a student leader and participated in the anti-Hindi agitation in 1965. He later joined the state government in the public relations department. After Sasikala became a close aideof AIADMKleader J Jayalalithaa, Natarajan donned the unofficial role of her advisor. Even though   distanced herself from him, Natarajan continued to be an influential figure, but operated behind the scenes. Later, he founded a publication firm, launched magazines, wrote books and remained a strong votary of the Sri Lankan Tamil cause. He was back in the limelight after the death of Jayalalithaa in December 2016.
 
 
