Vadodara: City-based Navrachana School in Sama witnessed ruckus on Wednesday during report card reading of students.  There were some anxious moments when a couple of parents, who had not paid the outstanding fees as demanded by the school, noticed that the report cards issued to them by mentioned “passed, eligible for promotion” as remarks. In contrast, the report cards of those wards, whose parents had paid the entire fees, mentioned the class and the division in which the students have been promoted.  The school witnessed ruckus when members of the Vadodara Parents Association (VPA) reached the school premises and demanded a meeting with the school authorities.  VPA, which has submitted an application at Sama police station, demanding action against the school authorities, has alleged that a male staffer of the school, who was recording videos, misbehaved with three of their female office-bearers. While VPA has declared that it will stage a protest ‘dharna’ outside the school premises on Monday against the alleged misbehaviour of school staffers, the school authorities have refuted the allegations and instead blamed “anti-social elements with vested interests” for Wednesday’s ruckus.  A statement issued by the school states that all the children including even those whose parents have not paid the fees were issued report cards.  “At about 10 am, some parents began creating an agitated scene, shouting, using abusive language, threatening school staff and one male teacher was also assaulted. The school had no choice but to call the police to get the situation under control, to protect the school teachers, staff, students who were on campus, and other peaceful parents who had come for report reading,” the school said. Alleging that anti-social elements who had gathered outside the school with malicious intent misbehaved with the security staff, the school authorities further said that some of the agitating parents helped force the entry of such elements into the campus, which accounts as blatant trespassing.  “The agitated parents were those who have not paid the fees, mostly for the whole of last year,” the officials said.  “Unlike the false news being spread, no parent was shoved out of school. Parents were asked to leave when the school officially closed at its regular time,” the officials said, adding that the school continues to abide by all government and Supreme Court directives.