Gurgaon: A 38-year-old man was arrested in Manesar on Friday night for allegedly raping his 12-year-old daughter repeatedly for months.

 Police said the man was picked up after his second wife and the girl’s stepmother caught him red-handed in the act and lodged a complaint. Later, the girl told cops that her father had forced himself on her by saying “every father does the same to his daughter”. She also alleged he had been physically abusing her for the past six months.
 
 The girl is the eldest of the two children from the man’s first wife, who currently lives in Bihar. The girl, on the other hand, lived with her father, who worked as a labourer in a factory at IMT-Manesar, stepmother, younger brother and two step-siblings in Pataudi.
 
 On Wednesday, when the stepmother, who works as a maid in the same area, returned home around 12.30pm, she found the father in a compromising situation with his daughter. While he immediately fled the house, the girl later confided in her stepmother how the father had been abusing her regularly.
 
 He stayed away from home the entire day. Eventually when he returned home on Thursday, the stepmother asked him to stay away from his daughter. But he refused to budge and allegedly tried to abuse his daughter again, this time in the presence of the stepmother. The woman then dialed 100 and called police, who arrested the man on Friday night.
 
 “I was shocked when my stepdaughter told me that her father had been raping her for the past six months. He had even threatened to kill her if she told anyone about the same,” the stepmother said in her complaint.
 
 After receiving the complaint, police took the girl to hospital for a medical examination where doctors confirmed  . An FIR has been registered against the man under section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO Act), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC at Women police station, IMT-Manesar.
 
 The girl was produced in a city court for recording her statement on Saturday. Her father was also produced in the court that remanded him in judicial custody.
 
 “The girl had kept mum all these while as she was in fear. But her stepmother caught the father red-handed and informed police,” said inspector Poonam Singh, SHO, Women’s police station, IMT-Manesar.
 
 Gurgaon: A 38-year-old man was arrested in Manesar on Friday night for allegedly raping his 12-year-old daughter repeatedly for months.
 
 Police said the man was picked up after his second wife and the girl’s stepmother caught him red-handed in the act and lodged a complaint. 
 
 Later, the girl told police her father had forced himself on her by saying “every father does the same to his daughter”. 
 
 She also alleged he had been physically abusing her for the past six months.
 
 The girl is the eldest of the two children from the man’s first wife, who currently lives in Bihar. The girl lived with her father, who worked in a factory at IMT-Manesar, stepmother, younger brother and two step-siblings in Pataudi. On Wednesday, when the stepmother, who works as a maid, returned home around 12.30pm, she found her husband in a compromising situation with the girl. While he immediately fled the house, the girl confided in her stepmother how her father had been abusing her regularly. He stayed away from home the entire day. 
 
 Eventually, when he returned home on Thursday, the woman asked him to stay away from his daughter. But he refused to budge and allegedly tried to abuse his daughter again in the presence of the stepmother. The woman dialled 100 and called police, who arrested the man on Friday night. “I was shocked when my stepdaughter told me that her father had been raping her for months. He had even threatened to kill her if she told anyone about the same,” she said in her complaint on Friday.
 
 After receiving the complaint, police took the girl to hospital for a medical examination. Doctors confirmed rape. 
 
 An FIR has been registered against the man under section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC at Women police station, IMT-Manesar.
 
 The girl was produced in a city court for recording her statement on Saturday. 
 
 Her father was also produced in the court that remanded him in judicial custody.
 
 “The girl had kept mum all these while as she was scared. But her stepmother caught the father red-handed and informed police,” said inspector Poonam Singh, SHO, women’s police station, IMT-Manesar.
 
 
