NEW DELHI: Former India opener and Ranji Trophy record-holder   believes that the   franchises who invest smartly and heavily in Indian cricketers at this weekend’s IPL player auction will be the toughest to beat when the 11th season of the league gets underway in April.

 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 From an original pool of 1122, there will be 578 cricketers up for auction; of these, 360 are Indian and the rest overseas players. The list of 578 includes 244 capped players, 332 uncapped and two Associates players. A total of 182 players can be purchased, however. 
 
 
  
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 “If we look at the history of IPL, teams which had a strong core group of Indian players have done well consistently (Chennai Super Kings,  , Kolkata Knight Riders). This   will be huge as all the players will be in the auction pool (barring retained players) -  , Ajinkya Rahane, Chris Gayle, Jason Roy, Ben Stokes, Mitchel Starc, Rashid Khan, Chris Lynn will be cynosure of all eyes as they will bring that X factor to any IPL team for which they are picked,” wrote Jaffer, who played for Royal Challengers Bangalore when the IPL kicked off in 2008, in his column for TOI. 
 
 “Talking about Indian uncapped players, four young quicks - Kamlesh Nagarkoti, Navdeep Saini, Shivam Mavi and Rajneesh Gurbani - will surely be under the radar of all the franchises as these young lads have shown promise and potential. They have done well so far in first-class and Under-19 level. The IPL will be a great platform for them to showcase their talent amongst the best in the world. To be honest, IPL teams over the years have thrown in quite a few surprises with their choice of players and strategies, so let’s wait and see what franchises opt for at the auction.”
 
 According to Jaffer, the IPL acted as a feeder system for Indian cricket because of the exposure it gives to young cricketers which gave them confidence to do well on a big stage. “The IPL has done wonders for Indian cricket. The youngsters have benefited the most as they not only get to play against the best players in the world, IPL also provides them with a great opportunity to rub shoulders with the greats of the game,” wrote the 39-year-old. 
 
 “This kind of exposure ultimately helps them to grow as fearless cricketers. The IPL auction is all set to take place over this weekend and the team that picks their players wisely will have the best chance of doing well in the season. Franchises like Delhi Daredevils and Kings XI Punjab have the best chance to rebuild their team as these two franchises have been a little inconsistent compared to the others.”
 
