NEW DELHI: Getting into the Test team might not be all that simple for Ravichandran Again as it looks like on paper. Giving him stiff competition is legspinner  . 

 
 
 
 
 
  has learnt that skipper Virat Kohli is inclined towards getting Chahal into his scheme things for Test matches. It is also learnt that Chahal could be giving Ashwin a run for his money for a spot in the Test XI. Sources close to the team management said that Kohli had actually told Chahal to be ready for the upcoming Test match against Afghanistan in June. 
 
 Ashwin, who has been India's premier bowler in Tests over the past two and a half years, didn’t renew his deal with Worcestershire this season as he wanted to take part in Afghanistan's inaugural Test match to be played in Bangalore. “Virat has given Chahal enough feelers. But now that Virat has himself backed out of the Test, it could be interesting if the selectors stick with Chahal,” said a source close to the development. 
 
 Kohli’s fascination for wrist-spinners is well documented in the limited-overs format. But dropping Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja, on their Test performance, will be very difficult. “Ashwin may well travel to England for Tests but he will face stiff competition from Chahal and Kuldeep Yadav. There is also talks of resting Ashwin against Afghanistan so that the wrist spinners get a feel of Test cricket,” added a source close to the Indian team management. 
 
 
 had reported in December that both Chahal and Jasprit Bumrah were asked to skip Ranji Trophy matches and train at the National Cricket Academy (NCA) instead. “Kohli is batting strongly for Chahal and Bumrah. He wanted both for Test matches in South Africa despite both having very little experience of bowling with the red ball. But he was granted just Bumrah,” the source said. 
 
 
 understands that Kohli prefers Chahal over Kuldeep. Interestingly, whenever Kohli has decided to go in with a single spinner in limited-overs matches in the last year, he has turned to Chahal. “Chahal is quicker through the air and is more accurate. He has been asked to concentrate on his legbreaks. That’s why you see him bowling more share turning leg-breaks this IPL. Bangalore could have been the ideal ground for Chahal to make his debut,” the source informed.
 
 The competition for spinners in Tests has surely hot up. Ashwin and Jadeja still lead the race but there is a strong undercurrent too.
 
 
