LUCKNOW: A   early on Friday on   in  . The families of   (19) and   (18) were apparently against their relationship. The teenagers’ bodies were found outside Suraj Deep Complex on Jopling Road.

 The condition of the bodies and CCTV footage suggested that the teenagers slit their wrists on the terrace of the five-floor building before jumping to death. Ojas was a student at an animation institute and Kajal was a BSc student at a government college. They had been friends for long and lived in the same colony in Katra Maqboolganj in Kaiserbagh.
 
 Police got to know about the incident only at 6.30 am, when a woman, who goes to a gym in the same complex, informed ‘UP 100’ about the bodies. A police team led by SSP Lucknow, ASP (east), ASP (west) and CO (Hazratganj) took the duo to Civil Hospital where both were declared brought dead. A team of forensic science laboratory also reached the spot to carry out investigations.
 
 The teenagers’ identities could only be ascertained later when, during probe, police found that an FIR had been lodged in Kaiserbagh, alleging that Ojas had kidnapped Kajal. In his complaint, Kajal’s uncle Bhaskar had said that Ojas had lured and kidnapped the girl.
 
 SSP Lucknow Deepak Kumar said that after going through the scene of crime and recovery of written communication between the two, it seemed to be a case of suicide.
 
 Though there were no eyewitnesses to the incident, but video footage from a CCTV installed at a bank opposite the building showed the couple falling off the building at 12.57am, he said.
 
 Hazratganj CO Abhay Mishra said, “We got a blade, formatted mobile phone, broken SIM card and a shoe belonging to Kajal from the roof of the complex.”
 
 “It seems to be a case of suicide as there are no signs of any confrontation,” he said. The girl’s body has more injuries, including skull fracture, in comparison to the boy. “The latter apparantly fell over the girl. We are waiting for the post mortem report for details,” he added.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Despair and disbelief were palpable at the mortuary section of the Civil Hospital when TOI went to interact with the families of the deceased.
 
 Ojas’s mother Manju Tewari could not believe he was dead. “My son would never take such a step. He must have been brain-washed,” she insisted. Ojas had an elder sister, Anju, who is pursuing engineering from a Ghaziabad institute. Manju kept wailing how Ojas was a sincere student. “He was pursuing animation from a private institute in Hazratganj,” she said. His father Anand Tewari works at a private firm in Lucknow.
 
 Kajal’s father Ratnakar Pandey was numb. He kept repeating that his daughter was innocent. “If there was any such issue, she could have asked me, I would have given my assent,” he said. Pandey, who works as an officer in a construction firm, said he was in New Delhi when he was informed about the incident and he flew back.
 
 When TOI met the teachers of the institute they said that Tewari had not gone for classes on Thursday. He had taken admission there in May 2017. “He was disturbed and was not talking to anybody,” said a teacher who wished not to be quoted.
 
 
 
 
 The teenagers’ bodies went unattended for six hours in the high-security zone of Hazratganj. Suraj Deep complex, where the bodies were found, is located on Jopling Road. There were no CCTVs in the building and security guard could not spot the bodies. The complex houses a bank, an ATM, a private institute, a pharmacy company, a gym and a news channel. The complex has only one security guard, Jitendra Pal.
 
 Hazratganj CO Abhay Mishra agreed that Pal was on duty and should have known about the incident. Mishra said when police visited the premises, the terrace was locked from outside, the keys of which were with Pal. “When we interrogated him, he did not know about the case,” said Mishra. He also said that liquor bottles were found on the complex terrace. “It shows that people who drink must be visiting it frequently in the absence of security,” said Mishra. Pal will be rounded up after autopsy report comes out, he said.
 
 
 
