HYDERABAD: Contrary to expectations, air passengers and motorists have to wait beyond the 2019 elections to zoom past traffic jams and vehicular congestion points on their way to the international airport at   on the   national highway. This is because the semielevated expressway from Aramgarh to Shamshabad that will provide smooth access to the airport is unlikely to be completed before the 2020-21 fiscal. 

 
  
 The situation is no different with the proposed elevated corridors at six number junction near Amberpet crossroads and the Uppal junction to   stretch on the   highway. The people, particulary the motorists were hopeful of all the three projects being completed before the elections next year. However, while the Shamshabad project is getting delayed due to slow pace of release of funds from the Centre, the other two are delayed due to land acquisition issues.
 
 The Central government is funding ?1,097 crore for the construction of these elevated expressways and the state government is spending over ?400 crore from its pocket for land acquisition and utilities shifting among other expenses.
 
 While Bengaluru-based VB infra has bagged the sixlaning of existing road and construction of semi-elevated expressway project from Aramgarh to Shamshabad, tenders for the remaining two expressway projects are yet to be finalised.
 
 The TRS government’s original plan was to organise a grand foundation laying ceremony for these projects keeping in view that elections could happen by the year-end or early next year. According to officials, even if the projects take off now, they will not be ready by election time as each venture would require at least 24 to 30 months to be completed. “Once the project works start at the ground level, it will take at least 24-months to 30 months for the construction to be completed for the express skyways,” an official in the Roads and Buildings department said.
 
 The state government and its agencies such as the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation(GHMC) and the Revenue officials have almost completed the land acquisition. However, officials are wary of the fact that until they hand over the project site to the contractor, the project would not be completed in time.
 
 “There are few properties left that need to be acquired and the exercise is in full swing,” said an official.
 
  
 
