NEW DELHI: The premium sedan market is set to witness a price and probably discounts war as   unleashed aggressive competition by rolling out   at an entry price of Rs 8.8 lakh (ex-showroom).

 
 The Yaris, which will be placed under Toyota’s Altis sedan, will compete with models such as Honda’s City, Hyundai’s Verna and Maruti’s Ciaz. With the new model, Toyota hopes to gain a significant foothold in the category, which currently accounts for sale of around 2 lakh cars annually.
 
 Toyota has launched Yaris with only a petrol version, sporting a 1,500cc engine. The car has both manual and automatic variants. While the manual model costs between Rs 8.8 lakh and Rs 12.9 lakh, the automatic model has been priced between Rs 9.9 lakh and Rs 14 lakh.
 
 “We are confident that Yaris will help us make significant inroads into the premium sedan segment,” N Raja, deputy MD of Toyota Kirloskar Motors, told TOI.
 
 Toyota dominates the MPV (multi-purpose vehicle) segment and luxury SUV category with products such as   and Fortuner. But, it has been unable to make significant inroads in the under Rs 10-lakh segment. Toyota’s products such as Etios entry sedan and Liva hatchback have not been able to match up to competition from players like  , Hyundai and  .
 
 However, the company hopes to break this jinx with Yaris. “We have ensured that the pricing is attractive, while adding attractive features such as seven airbags and keyless entry for the base variant,” Raja said.
 
 Industry officials said Toyota’s aggressive stance will mean that other companies will offer discounts to thwart any immediate poaching. “We are looking at the situation very closely, and how the market responds to Yaris. A variety of options are at our disposal, including price rationalisation, in case the need arises,” a top official with one of Toyota’s competitors said, requesting anonymity.
 
 Honda City is the segment leader, but faces stiff competition from Verna and Ciaz. “Competition is going up with new models. We welcome any competition as it keeps us agile and helps expand the segment,” Rajesh Goel, director (sales and marketing) at  , said.
 
 Toyota’s Raja said the decision to not have a diesel variant was governed by the way buyers have been shifting their preferences. “A closer look will show you that petrol is nearly 70% of the market, and is getting stronger.”
 
