Former India captain and opener Kris   feels that South Africa, with their dismal performance in the ODI series against India, have ‘left everyone a tad embarrassed’. While   have had injury setbacks, Srikkanth says that SA have failed to displayed the fighting qualities that one would normally associate with a top-ranked team

 
 Writing in his column for TOI, Srikkanth wrote, “For all practical purposes, the one-day series looks over and out. South Africa have hardly displayed the fighting qualities that one would normally associate with a top-ranked team. Frankly their performance has left everyone a tad embarrassed,” adding, “I understand that the hosts are missing their two premier batsmen due to injury, but don’t tell me that the team is so heavily dependent on AB and Faf that they can’t even put up a fight against two wrist spinners who are not very experienced.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 While   was ruled out for the first three games before the start of the series, stand-in captain Faf Du Plessis was side-lined due to a finger injury after the first ODI. To make matters worse, their wicketkeeper-batsman Quinton de Kock was also ruled out after the second ODI and for Srikkanth, this makes SA’s top order very vulnerable. 
 
 “Now with Quinton de Kock also ruled out, I am not even able to imagine the top-order putting a semblance of a fight,” he wrote. “The only way out could be India drop their level drastically. I don’t see that happening and the 5-1 verdict that I predicted could actually go wrong”. 
 
 India’s key to success in both the ODI’s have been their use of the wrist spinners - Kuldeep Yadav and Yuzvendra Chahal – who have made South African batsmen look pedestrian. The duo have so far taken 13 wickets giving away just 121 runs in 34.2 overs between them in the first two ODIs. 
 
 “Full credit to Kuldeep Yadav and Yuzvendra Chahal to make the batsmen dance to their tune. Chahal has been particularly impressive with his air speed while Kuldeep, for a left-arm chinaman, has shown effective control.” wrote Srikkanth 
 
 Srikkanth also pointed out that the reason South Africa batsmen have found it tough against both the wrist-spinners is that they are trying to read them off the track. “In my playing days, I don’t remember facing one chinaman bowler. I can imagine the plight of the SA batsmen in not being able to read him. A leggie in my opinion is always a wicket-taking threat, irrespective of the format. And with two wrist spinners operating with consistency, the opponents are looking confused and rattled. Trying to read them off the track is not helping their case either. The duo have to be picked from their hand, in turn this will lead to better use of the feet,” opined the former India international. 
 
 Talking about India, Srikkanth felt that with the success of the two wrist spinners, India now has a very settled unit. “The Indians have found a piece for each jigsaw. The bowling unit is looking fine and so are the batsmen. Rahane’s return is the most welcome sign. I just hope the top four is not tampered with. I have always believed a winning combination must remain and I am sure the changes will be made after the series is wrapped. Heartening to see an Indian team dominate overseas. Sincerely hope they don’t let go of the intensity and make it count in the matches to come,” he added. 
 
 
