JAIPUR: A dozen members from Paliwal community on Saturday came to   and were surprised and annoyed over tampering with the original structures and breaking old structures and building new one at the protected monument kuldhara the abandoned village of Paliwal Brahmins. The people of Paliwal community expressed the annoyance over the construction works and have sent a memorandum to the government to immediately stop the ongoing works. A meeting in this regard has been called on Sunday at phalodi in which people of Paliwal community from the state and the country will take part.

 It is to be mentioned that govt to start commercial activities is also starting the bidding.   samaj president Babulal Paliwal, Secretary Shyam Paliwal, Paliwal heritage monument member Manoher Paliwal, Joint Secretary Bherulal Bhagadi, Akhil Bhartiya Paliwal Sang Vice Presidnt Jai Kumar and many others senior persons from Paliwal society were present.
 
 Times of India had raised the issue of breaking and tampering with structures at kuldhara. At present construction is on to build cafeteria and others. 15 member team of Paliwal community on getting information of breaking the old structures and building new one at kuldhara reached here and were surprised to see how the heritage is being destroyed and they were annoyed and told to go to court in this regard.
 
 Rajasthan Paliwal Samaj president   said a memorandum is being prepared in the name of   and is being sent to the government. It has been demanded to immediately stop tampering with the original structures at kuldhara and even the new construction is not being made in old artistic manner.wven the. Old history of Paliwal community is not being told to tourists and no sigh boards have been put.
 
 He said toilets, cafeteria and other structures have been built by breaking the original constructions which is quite sad. In the memorandum it is being told to include Paliwal community in development of kuldhara and khaba so that real history could be brought before the people. They also demanded to stop tampering with the history of kuldhara and is being presented in wrong manner. Kuldhara is being publicised as haunted in TV documentary and in newest which is wrong and is hurting the sentiments of Paliwal community.
 
 He said a meeting has been called in sunday at phalodi and n this regard in which people from Paliwal community from various parts of the country will take part.
 
