KOZHIKODE: For someone who began learning dance at the age of three,   Moothedam’s entry into   was not by design but quite accidental. Losing her mother when she was just nine, Jaisamma shifted to Alphonsa Girls High School, Vakakkad near Erattupetta. Taller than most of the girls in her class, Jaisamma was introduced into volleyball by the nuns of the convent school when she was in standard 5. The lanky girl was unsure about her future in volleyball but fell in love with the game soon and went on to play for India. Jaisamma’s transformation was remarkable. Just two years after taking up the game, Jaisamma became the captain of mini state team and made it to the mini Indian team when she was in class 7. There was no looking back for Jaisamma thereafter.

 
 The game got her a job in Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB), Thiruvananthapuram where she joined as a player in 1983. After more than there and half decades of service, where she saw KSEB emerging as one of the most competent sides in the country, the 55-year-old is retiring from service at the end of this month. “I feel great. The career has been an eventful one. KSEB wasn’t a great team when I joined here. But the team has gone from strength to strength from then on. Now, KSEB has become one of the most prominent sides in the country. I think I have done whatever I could to the board and volleyball,” Jaisamma said on the sidelines of 66th Senior National Volleyball Championship for men and women.
 
 “We could not set up a proper team for the first nine years. We tried our best and knocked all available doors but nothing happened. Finally, in 1993 we recruited our first batch of players which included the likes of PR Sreedevi, twins Anu Jacob and  . Thereafter we have recruited more than 60 players till date and produced more than 20 internationals from KSEB. Hope they continue to produce more talents even after my retirement,” Jaisamma added.
 
 As a player Jaisamma’s career hit to-flight after joining Providence Women’s College, Kozhikode in 1980. “I was in the Indian team for Junior Asian Championship held at Seoul and we finished third in the event. We qualified for the Junior World Championship, Mexico but finished 11th there,” recalled Jaisamma on her days as a junior India player.
 
 Jaisamma represented India in the 1982 Delhi Asiad which was led by her best friend and Arjuna awardee from Kerala Saly Joseph, and they finished fifth in the event. After the good Asiad show, Kerala government offered jobs for Kerala players in the Indian squad including Jaisamma, Saly and Jaisamma joined KSEB in 1983.
 
 Former Indian captain Tiju Raju, who has been KSEB’s trump card for many years, said everyone related to KSEB will miss Jaisamma. “She was like our mother. She took great care of us and we all excelled in our career and life because of her. She was an amazing mentor,” Tiji said.
 
 Jaisamma became the executive member of VFI in 2001 and was made selector in the same year. Jaisamma says she will continue her association with VFI. “I don’t know if I can completely stay away from volleyball. If possible, I will be helping the players in the coming years as well,” Jaisamma, who is married to former Kerala Ranji Trophy player Ranjith Thomas.
 
 To honour Jaisamma, former players like Tiji, PV Sheeba and others are organizing a farewell party for their ‘’dearest chechy” in Thiruvananthapuram on March 4.
 
