NEW DELHI: The   members of the north and south   are planning to meet the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee, LG Anil Baijal and Union urban development minister Narendra Singh Tomar to demand   for   till June 30 for payment of conversion charges. 

 
 The first meeting of Delhi assembly special committee that would probe   will be held on Thursday. The committee will probe why corporations are sealing shops and could it have been avoided.
 
 The monitoring committee had directed NDMC and the three corporations to collect conversion charges by January 15. However, many traders have failed to comply and are facing threat of sealing. So far, over 150 shops have been sealed in the Defence Colony market, 135 in the Meherchand market and several others in areas such as Chhatarpur, Karol Bagh and Rohini for violating Master Plan 2021. 
 
 “We will meet the monitoring committee, the LG and the Union minister seeking relaxation for the traders,” north corporation standing committee chairman Tilak Raj Kataria said on Wednesday. 
 
 The view echoed in the standing committee meeting of the south corporation as the members requested chairman Bhupender Gupta to meet the SC committee. Gupta said, “The sealing drive is being carried out on the orders of the Supreme Court but we also need to give some time to the traders. We will meet the committee for the same.”
 
 There is still confusion within the civic bodies over the deadline. While the deliberative wing feel that the notification issued by the Centre for revision of conversion charge rates has set the June 30 deadline, the executive wing claims that the monitoring committee had fixed the January 15 deadline. 
 
 SDMC commissioner Puneet Goel told the standing committee, “The monitoring committee is the decision-making body and we have to stick to its deadline. As far as the notices are concerned, the committee does not authorise us to do so.” 
 
 The corporations’ executive wings have also said that though the standing committees have told them to issue notice 48 hours before sealing, the monitoring committee orders don’t allow them to do so. 
 
