MUMBAI: Several first-year MCom students from   were in for a rude shock on Monday. After stepping out of their exam centres, they realized the question paper their friends had attempted was not the same as theirs. In fact, the other question paper from the same syllabus had objectives carrying 15 marks — a fourth of the 60-mark paper. It also had more options.

 The first semester exam for MCom students commenced on Monday with the Strategic Management paper. Students who had their centres at three colleges — Jai Hind at Churchgate, Burhani at   and SM   at Powai — claimed they got a question paper in the old pattern which had four questions carrying 15 marks each, with no objectives. Each question had three sub-questions and students were asked to attempt any two.
 
 
 In the new paper pattern, students had to choose between objectives and short notes, both carrying 15 marks.
 
 Over 11,000 students had registered for the MCom exam in the choice-based pattern. With no official complaint from the colleges or students, the total number of affected students is yet to be known.
 
 “In a question paper where students have to score 24 marks to pass, having objective questions for 15 marks is quite a big advantage. The students who got objective questions will definitely have an edge over us. At my centre, we alerted the supervisor. We were told that the university had sent only one question paper and we were asked to attempt the same,” said a student.
 
 The problem, according to a university official, is the question paper code 29342 in the new pattern was meant for the fresh students – around 11,000 - who gave the exam in the choice-based programme, while the question paper code 05888 was in the old pattern meant for credit-based students – over 100 repeaters from the last year. “There is a minor change in the syllabus and therefore, not many students could identify the difference,” said an official.
 
 A principal from one of the colleges, where the paper code 05888 was distributed, said that none of the students reported the wrong paper pattern. “Students started coming to the college two to three hours later to report the goof-up. We are planning to write to the university,” said the principal, adding that only one paper was available when it was downloaded.
 
 Arjun  , in-charge director (Examinations and Evaluations), said two question papers were available and colleges were expected to download the right paper code with the new pattern. “A majority of colleges managed to download the right paper. How can a few colleges claim the wrong paper was available? We are yet to get written complaints from the colleges or even students. After seeing the extent of the problem, a report will be presented to the board of studies for the subject. The authorities may think about a method to normalise the scores,” said Ghatule, adding that a need for re-exam does not arise in such cases.
 
