CHANDIGARH: After battling over Khalistanis during Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s recent visit, India and   are again heading for a showdown — this time over Ottawa’s inordinate delay in processing extradition of “fugitive NRIs” named in the drug and multi-crore money laundering case involving former   Police DSP Jagdish Singh Bhola.

 
  
 
 Despite several efforts by the Punjab Police and the Union government, the Canadian agencies have been rejecting the extradition requests, citing various discrepancies in documents processed by the Indian authorities. The extradition requests have been hanging for two years now.
 
 On Wednesday, assistant solicitor-general of India Chetan Mittal submitted a detailed affidavit before the Punjab and Haryana high court stating that the Canadian authorities have rejected the request to extradite eight NRIs linked to the case. Their extradition had been sought in 2016 and now a fresh request has been sent to Canada’s department of justice.
 
 When asked about the delay in extradition, Mittal told TOI that the problem was not on the Indian side as all the requests had been made as per format prescribed by the Canadian authorities. The Canadian agencies, he added, were making technical objections to the requests every time “to stall their extradition”.
 
 As per the affidavit, submitted through Rajeev Ranjan, undersecretary (extradition), ministry of external affairs (MEA), extradition of eight NRIs — Ranjit Singh Aujla, Gursewak Singh Dhillon, Nirankar Singh Dhillon, Sarabjit Singh Sander, Lehmbar Singh Daleh, Amarjit Singh Kooner, Pardeep Singh Dhaliwal and Amarinder Singh Chheena — was sought by India between April and November 2016.
 
 “These requests were returned by the Canadian authorities who advised that the extradition documents may be submitted in two parts — record of the case and general legal statement. Accordingly, duly rectified extradition requests were forwarded to Global Affairs, Canada for their consideration,” the affidavit said.
 
 Similarly, the MEA has forwarded two fresh requests to the Canadian authorities for the extradition of Parminder Singh Deo and Ranjit Kaur Kahlon. The Punjab police has identified a large number of NRIs who were involved in the racket and requests for their extradition have been made to Canada through the CBI and MEA.
 
 Senior advocate Anupam Gupta, who is also associated with the drug haul case, said it is the Canadian government’s policy to protect these people by imposing millions of hyper-technicalities. “It is the strategic and willful stonewalling by the Canadian authorities to stall the extradition process,” Gupta added.
 
 
 
