MUMBAI: In the biggest-ever gold seizure from an airline crew member in the city, the police arrested an employee of   with 23kg of gold worth Rs 7 crore hidden in a waist belt and knee caps when he tried to check into a five-star hotel near the international airport. An accomplice, Ibrahim Ali Hussein (26), who was supposed to collect the gold from the crew member, Abdalla Ali Said (29), was also arrested from the hotel. 

 The duo, both   nationals, have been handed over to the airport customs for further investiagtion.
 
 On Sunday, after landing in the city on a Kenya Airways flight (KQ 210) around 4pm, Said, carrying 156 old biscuits, cleared customs and was picked up by a car from  . He arrived at the hotel around 7.30pm and checked in by 8pm. However, one of the hotel employees got suspicious as another foreign national kept walking close to him on the premises, said the police.
 
  
 “The alert hotel staff got suspicious when they found Hussein walking around Said after the latter checked in. The staff immediately alerted the police,” said DCP (zone VIII) Anil Kumbhare. He said that on receiving an alert from the hotel’s security official, a Sahar police station team reached Hyatt Regency and frisked the airline crew member. 
 
 The team—comprising senior inspector Lata Shirsat, inspector Raghunath Kadam, assistant inspector Ajinkya Tambade and sub-inspector Atul Sanap—found gold hidden in special compartments of the waist belt and knee caps that Said had strapped to his ankles.
 
 “Said told us that he had easily cleared the customs check at the airport because airline crew members are not frisked physically and only their baggage is checked,” said the police. On Monday, the Sahar police officials, after making a diary entry, handed over the duo’s custody to the airport customs for further probe.
 
 The police said that according to preliminary investigations, Hussein had been staying at a hotel on Mohammed Ali Road in south Mumbai since January 4 on a three-month tourist visa. He claims to be a cloth merchant who is in Mumbai on an official tour.
 
 Customs officials are probing if Said had smuggled gold using a similar modus operandi in the past as well. The DCP felicitated the hotel employees for being alert.
 
 
