MUMBAI: In a startling twist, a   into the blaze which gutted two resto-bars at Kamala Mills in Lower Parel last week has revealed that the fire originated in Mojo’s Bistro and not   as was initially believed. Bodies of all 
  were found in the bathroom of 1Above, which shared a terrace area with Mojo’s.

 The fire brigade’s report to civic commissioner Ajoy Mehta on Friday said their probe has concluded that “flying embers” from a charcoal sigree (stove) used to light a hookah came in contact with combustible cloth material used as curtains at Mojo’s and rapidly spread to the unauthorized tarpaulin roof at 1Above. Mehta said he had received the report. “It will become a part of the larger inquiry we are conducting,” he said.
 
 
  
  
 
 The latest findings may shift the course of the police investigation, which began with filing of five FIRs on charges ranging from culpable homicide not amounting to murder and endangering lives to flouting of land use norms. The first of the FIRs was against 
  , partners in a hospitality venture named Sigrid Ospitalita. They face criminal charges under sections of the IPC. Mojo’s owners are likely to face the same charges now.
 
 Currently, the only FIR against one of the owners of Mojo’s, Yug Tuli, is for a civil case under the Maharashtra Regional Town Planning (MRTP) Act for land use violations. Mojo’s is owned by four individuals who are partners in Tirupati Restaurants and Café Pvt Ltd: Yug Tuli, Yug Pathak, son of former Pune police commissioner K K Pathak, Pritina Shreshtha and Soumil Shringarpure. In the wake of the tragedy, 1Above’s owners had issued statements saying the blaze erupted at Mojo’s and sent letters to the Prime Minister and the chief minister seeking their intervention. The fire department had then not ruled out the possibility that the blaze may have spread from Mojo’s into 1Above.
 
 The fire probe report, accessed by TOI, has revealed that most eyewitnesses in their statements said hookahs were prepared and served at Mojo’s at the time of the incident at a spot not far from where curtains/decorative material caught fire. A stock of charred coal cubes, hookahs, intake pipes, stands, a pedestal fan, and a coal stove was found at the spot. The pedestal fan is believed to have been used for fanning lighted charcoal for hookahs. In its assessment, the fire brigade has said “the probable supposed cause” was the removal of lighted charcoal from the sigree and its transfer into a hookah or fanning of charcoal which caused “flying embers” to come in contact with curtains and decorative material.
 
 Due to winds on the open terrace, the fire spread rapidly and could not be put out using extinguishers. A fire official said, “As both eateries had a common rooftop, fire spread towards 1Above. The roof was made of inflammable material and molten plastic started falling from the top immediately.”
 
 When questioned why guests at 1Above were the ones who died while those at Mojo’s were able to escape, he said, “Guests at Mojo’s were the first to notice the fire and immediately ran towards the escape. By the time those at 1Above noticed the blaze, it had spread all over. The loud music in the premises made it difficult for those at 1Above to hear the screams of people,” he said. “More than 200-300 people” were present inside the two eateries at the time of the incident, he added.
 
 Reacting to the report, a senior police official said it would not influence the case of culpable homicide against 1Above’s owners, but they would now book partners of Mojo’s as well. “Both had committed illegalities in their restaurants, both are equally responsible,” he said.
 
 Police said they had registered the first FIR against 1Above because all 14 who died were guests at 1Above who were unable to escape and died of suffocation in the resto-bar’s washroom. “1Above had blocked common passage area between itself and Mojo’s and carried out unauthorized work,” said a police official.
 
 (With inputs from S Ahmed Ali)
 
 
