NEW DELHI: The Centre is working on a plan for proper rehabilitation of nearly 350 Kashmiri ex-terrorists who received arms training in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and Pakistan between 1989 and 2009 but eventually returned to Jammu & Kashmir, encouraged by the state government's 2010 policy for return of ex-militants.

 
 A major benefit under consideration is for the Pakistan/PoK-born wives and children of these ex-terrorists, who joined them during travel to J&K via the 'undesignated' Nepal route, and may involve the issue of documents to legalise their stay in India.
 
 Sources said the Centre's representative for J&K dialogue   is studying options for economic rehabilitation of the returned ex-terrorists and conferment of residency rights or citizenship to their wives, who they had married during their stay in Pakistan/PoK, as well as children born to them prior to return to J&K.
 
 As per information shared by J&K chief minister   with the state assembly last year, 337 ex-militants along with 864 family members had returned via Nepal and Bangladesh since 2010.
 
 However, she conceded that the returnees were not eligible for benefits under J&K's policy for return of ex-militants as they had not entered India through the four designated checkpoints - Attari-Wagah, Salamabad, Chakan-da-Bagh and Indira Gandhi International Airport, Delhi.
 
 A senior home ministry officer said the condition of these ex-militants who left PoK/Pakistan hoping for a better and peaceful life in J&K left much to be desired. "They were encouraged by us to come back to J&K but rendered ineligible for benefits under the policy for return of ex-militants as they could only return via Nepal owing to security reasons. The returnees continue to lead miserable lives in J&K with no proper employment or jobs. Their wives and children are stateless people who had to destroy their Pakistani passports before entering India from Nepal through the land border. Their citizenship status remains undecided, making them ineligible for basic facilities like school and college admissions or travel beyond J&K," the officer said.
 
 Sources said the failure of the central and state governments to offer the ex-militants a "dignified" life they had hoped for in J&K had made them disenchanted with the very authorities that had facilitated their return.
 
 
