Gold Coast: A road trip from Brisbane to  , a nearly 100-km ride, gives the impression that the excitement of the April 4-15   is yet to catch up with thinly-populated rural Australia.

 
 
 
 
 The volunteers, mostly senior citizens at the Brisbane airport, played picture-perfect hosts, guiding visitors to their destination. “Namaste, welcome to Gold Coast,” said one of them, guiding this passenger even as shot putter Tejinder Pal Singh walked ahead, sporting the Indian team’s new kit for the Games.
 
 The towering athlete from the Indian Navy is riding on new-found confidence after meeting the qualification guideline at the Federation Cup meet in Patiala. “I’m improving fast with each passing year and I’m confident of a good show here,” Singh said. The Punjab athlete missed the last Games with injury.
 
 
 
 The high-speed M3 motorway, operating with a reduced speed limit to avoid any incident during the Games, connects Brisbane to the Gold Coast. It has no hoardings or billboards announcing the arrival of the Games. The odd banner was only seen closer to the host city, though they were small in size, tucked away to the kerb and hardly met the eye in speeding traffic.
 
 The atmosphere got vibrant as we approached the popular tourist spot, now also the sixth largest city in Australia. It was the customary Queen’s Baton Relay, attracting a large number of spectators and also sporting greats like swimming legend Dawn Fraser, who jogged through the city’s race-track like roads. Family crowds were also seen milling around the Games fairs dotting various parts of the city on the day of the four-day Easter holidays.
 
 “It has to be Australia again topping the medals tally. As hosts, they go in with an extra advantage and I’ve no doubt that they will put up a commanding show,” a resident doctor, also a big sports buff, said here.
 
 The media centre at the sprawling Gold Convention and Exhibition Centre saw a steady stream of visitors as the day progressed. “We had our first busy day today and we expect more people in the coming days,” a volunteer, a smiling elderly lady, said at the media accreditation centre.
 
 
