MUMBAI: While the city reported several fires recently, with 37 lives lost in five incidents, the state’s  , which has over 540 personnel trained in disaster management is lying severely under-utilised with no   forwarded to them.

 In 2001, a high-powered committee set up by the Union government had recommended that civil defence corps be involved in disaster management. The law too was subsequently amended. But the   has not made any move to team up Civil Defence Corps with the   (SDMA). The organisation has a current annual budget of nearly Rs 14 crore. 
 
 The Civil Defence Act of 1968 was enacted after the Chinese aggression of 1962 and the India-Pakistan conflict of 1965. Civil Defence Corps used to prepare citizens for war. Over the years, global geo-political factors reduced the chances of traditional war. Consequently, the organisation started preparing volunteers by training them in tackling emergencies.
 
 
  
  
 
 In 2009, the Civil Defence Act was amended and tackling man-made as well as natural disasters was included in its scope. But no disaster-related calls were forwarded to the corps in the state as the SDMA had come into existence. The SDMA began handling training as well as response to disasters. In Mumbai, the municipal corporation has its own disaster management team. With this change, the role of the state's civil defence organisation as first responders to emergencies lost relevance. 
 
 “We used to have hotlines to the Army, Navy and Air Force and a full-fledged control room. There are ambulances, two and four-wheelers, stretchers, sirens, reconnaissance vehicles and fire tenders all lying in a state of disuse,” said a civil defence officer on condition of anonymity. In Maharashtra, the organisation has six units—in Mumbai, Uran, Tarapur, Navi Mumbai, Pune and Nashik. 
 
 Two more civil defence units are coming up in Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg but despite staff being sanctioned for them on paper, nobody has been hired. Both units are lying vacant. Personnel retiring from the organisation are rarely replaced. In Mumbai, the force has around 100 personnel.
 
 When contacted, Director General of Police (Home Guards and Civil Defence), Maharashtra, Sanjay Pandey said they have requested the SDMA to team up with them. 
 
 In an attempt to reinvent the organisation, the Civil Defence Corps in the state have planned a seminar on   and safety on January 24 at the Bombay Stock Exchange, where they have invited petroleum dealers, hotel and restaurant associations as well as the SDMA to attend.
 
 
