Kamptee: Thirteen-year-old Rohan Bawangude is keen on chasing his ‘English’ dream, even if it means crossing the Kanhan river, or cycling over steep dirt tracks every day, to reach school. The river, currently just ankle-deep, separates Gadeghat village from Kamptee cantonment.

 “There is only a Marathi school in my village, hence I go to a private English school at Kamptee, which is 10km away. It’s better to study in English because everyone says that it will get us a good job later,” says Bawangude as he tightens his grip on the bike handle bar and gets ready to cross the almost dry river bed.
 
 Crossing the river and climbing the steep banks cuts Bawangude’s travel time to less than half. “From here, I can reach in 30 minutes,” says Bawangude. “I attend extra classes too at the school, and my teachers are preparing us for government scholarship exam,” he adds. Soon, his friend Hrishikesh Gajbhiye joins him, and they both prepare to start their commute to school.
 
 Gajbhiye echoes his classmate’s opinion about English medium being the preferred language of study. “We have a primary school in the village run by the Zilla Parishad but that’s Marathi medium. My family wanted me to attend an English medium school only, and even I like it there,” said Gajbhiye. These two aren’t alone, many other students from the village go to English schools in Kamptee as rising aspirations of parents have changed the entire dynamics.
 
 Tanveeruddin, whose family has been living in Gadeghat for three generations, says times are changing and, so, are perceptions. “Parents too want their children to get the best in life, so it’s but natural that they will try to upgrade themselves. Students travel by cycle or by private vans run by villagers,” said Tanveeruddin, trustee of the famed Amma Ki Dargah, which is perched atop the river bank on Gadeghat side. “It’s not that we are cut off from the civilized world, just that the route across the river is a short cut,” he added.
 
 During monsoons, the river route is ruled out since the water level rises dramatically. Ashok Waghmare, a local resident, said, “For those three months, we use the small bridge which is 3km away to reach the cantonment area. The second road goes via Kanhan, making it a 15km trip to Kamptee from our village.”
 
 Till a decade ago, there used to be a boat ferrying passengers on the route that Gajbhiye and Bawangude used earlier.  , now 63-years-old, said the boat service was run by his family at concessional rates for villagers. “Around 11 years ago, authorities constructed a small bridge just a few kilometres down stream from here. Since the almost eight-feet wide bridge supports regular bike and car traffic, the demand for boat ferry dropped. The river, on our banks, is anyway dry for eight to nine months, making the boat business unviable,” said Kawde.
 
 The only option available for primary school students to cut short their trip now is if the ZP schools switch to English medium. There are approximately 1,500 ZP schools in the district, of which a majority have been turned into semi-English. Dipendra  , district’s education officer, said, “About 1,000 schools have already been turned into semi-English medium, and we are awaiting government decision on how to proceed with the rest.”
 
 However, semi-English schools cannot even start to meet the challenge of full-fledged English medium schools. Yet, it is very unlikely that ZP schools will change their strategy to win back students. Lokhande said, “Government policy says that any school changing to English medium now will loose financial aid. This can be tricky for ZP schools. Regardless, we will wait for the government to take a final decision on this.”
 
 About 40km from Gadeghat is another Marathi school, on the banks of   in   village, which is also facing the heat. The only ashramshala in the village now has a strength of just 60, a big drop from the almost 300 just seven years ago. Sandeep Padame, who cleared his Std X from the   in 2010, recalls how popular the Marathi medium school used to be. “Students would come in boats from the across the river to attend school here, but the fascination for English medium schools is changing things,” said Padame.
 
 While these two schools show the exodus from Marathi schools, the government statistics show otherwise. Education department revealed that 14,647 students left English schools for their Marathi counterparts in the 2016-17 academic session. Most of these were specifically students who were originally Marathi medium students, but shifted to English before changing their mind.
 
 Educationist Rajendra Dayma feels that ZP schools, which are very close to urban areas, will continue to face an exodus. “When a village is just half or an hour away from an urban centre, it opens up options for parents. It is but natural that students will prefer the long commute to study in an English medium school rather than walk to a Marathi one,” said Dayma.
 
 
