done... Nashik: The chasm between the ruling allies in the state, BJP and Shiv Sena, will further widen as the BJP has backed Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) candidate Shivaji Sahane in the MLC (local bodies constituency) election that took place in Nashik district on Monday. The move has diminished the prospects of Shiv Sena nominee Narendra Darade, despite the fact that the party has the highest number of voters. All the 644 elected representatives of various civic bodies exercised their franchise. The Shiv Sena’s strength is 207 votes, followed by the BJP (167) and the NCP (100). Congress with 71 representatives is in alliance with the NCP.  If the NCP retains the seat it would be a blow to the Sena which has been lashing out at theBJP on various issues. What has antagonised the BJP is the fact that Sena has fielded a candidate for Palghar Lok Sabha bypoll, the seat traditionally contested by the BJP. The election took place at 15 locations from 8am to 4pm. It was web cast live by the district administration that had, for the first time, installed closed circuit TV cameras when the poll was being conducted. A contestant requires 50% plus one of the total valid votes polled to get elected. Considering that all the votes were valid, a candidate will require 323 first preference votes to emerge winner in the first round. The NCP’s 100 electors, Congress’ 71, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena’s 6 and BJP’s 167 add up to 344. “Our high command has asked our members to cast votes in favour of Sahane. With our support we are sure Sahane will win,” said Balasaheb Sanap, city unit president of the BJP. The Sena camp, however, put up a brave front exuding confidence that it will wrest the seat from the NCP. Bhausaheb Chaudhary, who is handling the elections, said, “Darade filed nomination only on the basis of our strength and that of our supporters. We are not counting on the BJP. We will win elections by good margin.” Sahane said, apart from BJP he had received support from many small parties and independents and that he was confident of winning. The only silver lining for Sena is that if a section of the BJP voters cross-vote in favour of the Sena nominee the latter could win.