Panaji: Chief coach   has achieved his first target with   this season: steering the team to the semifinals of Indian Super League. Not many probably gave this team a chance with a young coach at the helm of affairs but the players at Lobera’s disposal has made heads turn.
 The Spaniard has got the best out of his team, making it the most attacking side with 42 goals in 18 matches. He has unearthed a gem in league’s top goalscorer   (18), while Manuel Lanzarote (12) is not far behind.
  Lobera was the one who got Moroccan midfielder Ahmed Jahouh to Goa, and when Manuel Arana decided to quit the club in search of more playing time, the coach responded with another stunning signing:  , who joined the side midway in February on a free transfer after plying his trade in the first tier for Moghreb Tetouan in Morocco.
  The 22-year-old attacking midfielder had earlier played under Lobera in Morocco and has not let the coach down with impressive performances in the last seven matches. Hugo was the everywhere man in Goa’s 3-0 win over Jamshedpur FC and is now looking forward to the crucial semifinal clash against archrivals Chennaiyin FC.
  “I joined the team when the coach called me and I was happy to come here. I’m in a very good team with a very good ambience with a positive mentality. I heard that   was a very good league in development. Coach spoke highly about the league, the team and I didn’t think much and came here directly,” said Hugo.
  Born to a French mother and Moroccan father, Hugo already has two goals and assists to his name. His first strike gave FC Goa a crucial point in a 1-1 draw at home against Delhi Dynamos FC.
  Hugo’s speed, interceptions and ability to hold the ball were the highlight in FC Goa’s 4-0 thumping of FC Pune City in their own den when he first earned a penalty converted by Lanzarote, scored the second and set up Corominas for the third.
  “When I’m on the pitch I try to do the best. I try to give dynamics in the game with my pass, rhythm and skills,” said Hugo.
  Given the history associated with the two teams – nobody can forget the 2015 final loss -- Hugo believes his team has all it takes to overcome Chennaiyin FC and make it to the final for the second time in three years.
  “The most important game will come this week. I have played against them (Chennaiyin FC) which we lost 1-0 and I think they are a good team. We know them well and will come up with best tactics,” said Hugo, who plans to extend his stay in Goa. 
