BENGALURU: Three suspected cases of   (NiV) infection have been reported in Bengaluru. All three patients,   at private hospitals in the city, had travelled to Kerala and subsequently developed fever. Samples of their body fluids have been sent to   and the results are awaited.

 
 While one case was reported on Monday, two others surfaced on Tuesday. Most of the nursing staffers in many Bengaluru hospitals are from Kerala, said doctors.
 
 “They had travelled to their hometowns and complained of fever and vomiting after their return. They have not been hospitalised but are being closely monitored,” said Dr B G Prakash Kumar, deputy director, National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, state health and family welfare department.
 
 
 Nipah scare: ‘All precautions taken in border districts’
 
 Though the symptoms are suggestive of flu, as a precautionary measure, the samples have been sent for tests. There are chances of the patients testing negative for Nipah,” said Dr B G Prakash Kumar, deputy director, National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, state health and family welfare department.
 
 Earlier, four suspected cases had been reported in the state, two from Dakshina Kannada and one each from Gadag and Shivamogga. All the patients tested negative for Nipah.
 
 “The travel history of each patient mattered as all of them developed fever. No positive case has been reported in Karnataka so far and all precautions are being taken, especially in the border districts of Kodagu, Dakshina Kannada and Udupi and others like Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru and Karwar,” said an official.
 
 Watch out for these symptoms
 
 After exposure and an incubation period of 5-14 days, the illness presents itself with symptoms like fever, headache, acute respiratory syndrome followed by drowsiness, disorientation, mental confusion, seizures and altered sensorium. Symptoms can progress rapidly; the patient may even slip into coma. If not treated, it can be fatal within 24-48 hours.
 
