HYDERABAD: With both YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) and   (TDP) trying to table a no-confidence motion against the   government and seeking to mobilise support in favour of the motion from other political parties, the ruling   (TRS) has decided to adopt a ‘wait and watch’ policy. The party has 17 Lok Sabha MPs.

 Sources said TRS is of the view that there is ample time to take a decision on the noconfidence motion and party chief K Chandrasekhar Rao will decide on the stance to be taken after holding a meeting with the party MPs either on Saturday or Sunday.
 
 It may be recalled that at a press conference, while announcing his entry into national politics a couple of weeks ago, KCR termed a proposal to move a ‘no-confidence motion’ against the NDA government as a ‘cheap trick’ and said such acts serve no purpose. However, in the same breath, KCR had attacked the Modi government for what he called its failure to protect interests of farmers.
 
 On Friday, the TDP could not get its no-confidence motion admitted in the Lok Sabha because the TRS forced adjournment of the   as part of its quota protest, a move that has some parties like Congress say that the actions of the pink party were actually helping the NDA government.
 
 “The motion should come up for discussion and then voting will take place. Our party supremo K Chandrasekhar Rao will take a decision on this before the voting,” TRS MP and deputy floor leader B Vinod Kumar told TOI.
 
 During this budget session, TRS MPs have been agitating both inside and outside Parliament demanding that states should be given power to enhance reservations based on population.
 
 The Telangana government had sent a Bill to the Centre a few months ago for increasing the quota for Muslim minorities and Scheduled Tribes. Apart from this, the party has been seeking implementation of all the promises that were made in the AP Reorganisation Act. The TRS MPs came out in support of   MPs on the issue of special status for Andhra Pradesh.
 
 TRS leader in Lok Sabha AP Jitender Reddy said, “Our party is concerned about protecting the interests of the state, especially powers to the states on deciding reservation quotas.”
 
