Anantapur: Chief minister N   has urged the central government not to go back on bifurcation promises.

 Addressing a meeting after inaugurating the frame installation at the Kia Motors project site at Penugonda on Thursday, the chief minister said that he had visited the national capital 29 times, requesting the government to implement the provisions made in the AP   Act and the promises made on the floor of Rajya Sabha at the time of bifurcation. However, the central government had ignored his pleas, he said and all that was allotted to the state in the Union Budget was just an eyewash.
 
 The chief minister sought to advise the central government against insulting people by denying them the promises made to them. He said he would continue to fight for the state and would not compromise on the issues. The state would have witnessed a lot of growth in the last four years if the special category status and revenue deficit were given at the right time. He said the Union government had betrayed him and the people by proposing special package instead of special category status and finally denying the package too.
 
 Taking a dig at the Union government on denying the special category status to the state, he said the government had first projected the 14th   to deny the status. “But, the government is continuing the special category status to other states. We were promised special package equal to the special category status. But those funds too are not given,” the chief minister quipped. “Every promise made to the people should be fulfilled. We are working hard. We are far behind the other states in the South. The Centre should hand-hold the state until we are on par with the other states,” Naidu asserted.
 
 Referring to the agitation being planned by the Opposition parties in the state on special category status (SCS), the CM said he was not against protests for the state’s cause and is not ready to accept any attempt that would further cripple the growth and normal life. He wanted the people to follow how protests are held in Japan. “They (people in Japan) protest by working for more hours and producing more. AP needs such a protest now. We need development and we can’t derail growth for any reason,” he asserted. He said that he would mount pressure on the central government to achieve our demands. He would also take the support of the people and asked them to join him in his fight against the central government until justice is done to the state.
 
 
