CHENNAI: The city police on Tuesday arrested the proprietor of a furniture showroom in   for swindling the government of 10 crore over the past five years with fake bills for goods he claimed to have supplied  . 

  The scam by Mohammad Younis, 45, an upholsterer who had done business with Raj Bhavan for 15 years, emerged after   instructed his staff to look into complaints he had received about furniture in his official residence soon after his swearing-in as governor on October 6. 
 
 The   police arrested Younis on a complaint by deputy secretary to the governor and comptroller of (Raj Bhavan) household Savuri Rajan. Investigators questioned Younis and arrested him after raiding Sait's Furnishings, his showroom on   in Adyar. 
 
 Seized bills, evidence from a room Younis used as office in Adyar: Cops
 
 
 Another Raj Bhavan official said an inspection of bills from Younis and of storerooms in Raj Bhavan revealed that the showroom owner had in the past five years fabricated invoices to claim at least ?10 crore for purchases of furniture.
 
 
 “Acting on instructions from governor Purohit, we checked our storerooms and found major discrepancies in bills from Younis and the stock of furniture on the premises,” he said. “Younisclearly usedfakebillstoclaim payments from Raj Bhavan finance officials, charging for goods he never supplied.”
 
 
 Investigators said Younis pulled off the swindle by using contacts he had cultivated in Raj Bhavan over at least a dozen years since he first sold furniture to the governor’s residence.
 
 
 “Younis used his clout with former Raj Bhavan officials to ensure that he received payments against fake bills,” a police officer said The police seized bills and other evidence from a room that Younis used as his office in the Adyar showroom. Investigators registered a case against Younis under IPC sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery). They produced him in a magistrate’s court in Saidapet, which remanded him in prison.
 
 
 
