In the latest episode of  , the contestants wake up to the song Ha lkat Jawani.   and Arshi talk about Shilpa while Puneesh and Shilpa talk about Akash getting close to Arshi. Puneesh tells Akash to keep quiet or he would have to walk out of the house with a molestation case. 

 Vikas tells Puneesh that Shilpa is also at fault here and is doing drama for attention. The contestants spend their mornings talking and complaining about each other. 
 
 The task begins and Akash's picture comes out first. All the contestants suggest their ideas. Arshi approves Vikas' idea that is to destroy Akash's shoes and spray paint his head. Vikas destroys his shoes but   doesn't let him use the spray paint. Vikas dumps the bucket of green slime on Akash instead. 
 
 Hina's photo comes out next and the contestants suggest their ideas to Arshi. Shilpa says that she will break Hina's 'Sher Khan' mug gifted by Rocky. Hina begs Shilpa not to break her mug but Shilpa doesn't listen to her.
 Hina cries and picks up the pieces of mug. Shilpa tells Puneesh that she doesn't regret breaking the mug and is happy that she did the task. Hina and Shilpa get into a war of words and Vikas consoles Hina. 
 
 
  
 Puneesh's photo comes out next. Vikas says that he will wax Puneesh's entire body and Arshi approves of it. Puneesh gets his body waxed. Shilpa interrupts Vikas but he screams at her and tells her not to poke her nose everywhere. 
 
 Bigg Boss wakes the contestants up at midnight and tells them to come to the garden area. He tells Vikas, Hina and Shilpa that they are safe. Then Bigg Boss asks Puneesh and Akash to say their last words to the contestants in case they get evicted from the house. 
 
 Akash apologizes to everyone for troubling them and says that he loves them all. Puneesh also hugs everyone and tells them that he will miss them. Bigg Boss then announces that   has been evicted from the house. He leaves the house while rapping his 'Bang Bang' song.
 
 After he leaves, Shilpa gets upset and breaks down in the washroom area. 
 
 
  
 
