JAIPUR: The Pink City's annual literary bonanza, the  , began peacefully on Thursday with none of the controversy around  's Padmaavat disrupting the day's proceedings at the five-day festival.

 With the security ramped up,  , the venue, turned into a mini Rajput fortress. Possibly anticipating trouble, while the numbers of visitors to the festival remained low in the morning hours, the crowds swelled by evening.
 
 JLF's annual guest, Rajasthan chief minister  , who was originally scheduled to inaugurate the festival, gave the event a miss, citing campaign engagements in Alwar, which is headed for Lok Sabha bypolls on January 29.
 
 The festival, which is scheduled to witness over 200 sessions was instead inaugurated by former Rajasthan governor Margaret Alva and British-born American essayist, travel writer and novelist  .
 
 
 
 
 While festival producer Sanjoy Roy played safe and did not make any direct reference to the controversy raging over Padmaavat, or the government’s decision to deny exhibition rights to the film in Rajasthan, he said dissent played a crucial role in a democracy, but that “it is safe” only “as long as it is expressed within the bounds of the law”.
 
 “Writers and artists live in worlds of imagination. Fringe groups may not agree with every book that a writer writes, every film that a filmmaker makes, every artwork that an artist produces but they give their lives in bringing these precious works to life,” he said.
 
 Delivering his keynote address ‘A World Without Borders’, Pico Iyer said, “Across the western world, publishers are running scared, bookshops are closing, magazines are dwindling. But everytime that I come here to the world’s largest democracy, I find a new publishing house, a new magazine and new readers eager to talk about a certain page number of ‘A Suitable Boy’.
 
 “A new kind of writer is coming up to speak for a new kind of reader and if London is the capital of 19th century writing in English and New York is the capital of 20th century writing in English, then the capital of 21st century writing, so far, is certainly Mumbai,” he said to thunderous applause from the audience.
 
 Iyer also said that at a time when people were increasingly bound by their cultural and geographical boundaries, literature allowed authors and readers travel beyond these boundaries and to explore news worlds, and to read about other than one’s own identity.
 
 “Literature tells us that drone attacks do not deter terrorists, that guns are never going to erase nationalists. Our words, our ideas, our rigorous imaginings can take us a little bit towards simplicities and remind us that ultimately we change the world by thinking how we change it. The single most important state of all is the state of our imagination,” the acclaimed essayist said.
 
 
 
 
