Coimbatore: M M Murugappan, vice-chairman, Murugappa Group, has taken charge as the executive chairman of the group on Monday. He succeeds A Vellayan who served as executive chairman from November 2009 and retires at the age of 65, which is customary in the Murugappa Group. During his tenure, Vellayan steered the group’s growth through organic and inorganic initiatives, nearly doubling revenues from Rs 15,907 crores in 2008-09 to Rs 30,023 crores in 2016-17. During this period, the group’s EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation) went up from Rs 1,500 crore to Rs 4,000 crore and in percentage terms from 10% to 14%. Reflecting the improved performance, the group’s market capitalisation has gone up from Rs 11,600 crore to over Rs 70,000 crore at the end of January 2018. He is actively involved in industry bodies such as FAI (Fertiliser Association of India) and ISMA (Indian Sugar Mills’ Association). Since November 2009, Murugappan has been serving as the group’s vice-chairman, spearheading technology, innovation and environment, health & safety initiatives across the group. “In January 2004, Murugappan took over as chairman of CUMI, playing a pivotal role in transforming CUMI into an international company,” the group said in a statement.  He led the integration of Volzhsky Abrasive Works, Russia, the second largest manufacturer of silicon carbide in the world, with CUMI. In April 2006, Murugappan was appointed chairman of Tube Investments of India (TII). “At TII, he is very involved, together with the team, in developing a strong engineering-focussed business to address opportunities in the transportation sector as a critical component supplier,” the group stated. He was appointed as chairman of Coromandel International at the recently concluded board meeting on January 31. Murugappan is on the board of several companies outside the Murugappa Group such as Mahindra & Mahindra and Hyderabad-based Cyient. “He served on the ‘Board of Governors’ of IIT-Madras, for six years till November 2011 and has enabled many industry-academy partnerships. He now serves on the board of the IIT-Madras Research Park and provides guidance to many companies incubated there,” the group said. Murugappan holds a Bachelor’s degree in Chemical Engineering from the AC College of Technology, University of Madras and a Master of Science Degree in Chemical Engineering from the University of Michigan, USA. He is a member of the American and Indian Institutes of Chemical Engineers, the Indian Ceramic Society and the Plastics and Rubber Institute. Founded in 1900, the Murugappa Group is one of India's leading business conglomerates operating 28 businesses including nine listed companies traded in NSE & BSE.  The group’s companies are leading players in several segments including abrasives, auto components, transmission systems, cycles, sugar, farm inputs, fertilisers, plantations, bio-products and nutraceuticals.