NEW DELHI/NOIDA: Soon new home   from the middle income groups (MIGs) in Noida and   will be able to get interest subsidy of approximately Rs 2.5 lakh on their home loans under the PM Awas Yojna (PMAY). The Uttar Pradesh government has sent the names of these two towns in the National Capital Region (NCR) to the housing and urban affairs ministry to be included in the list of urban areas where the subsidy scheme is applicable.

 Sources said the ministry has issued the necessary codes for both the cities and these have been forwarded to the   (NHB) and Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDCO). NHB administers the scheme. They will soon update the list of cities and towns that are covered under PMAY interest subsidy scheme. 
 
 It’s learnt that some of the other states have also sent more names to be included in the list.
 
 In first week of February, TOI had first flagged how thousands of home buyers in these two cities were being deprived of interest subsidy scheme. 
 
 The report prompted UP government to fast track the pending proposal and the state industry department sent names of the two cities. Noida and Greater Noida fall under industrial authorities unlike neighbouring  , which falls under urban development department.
 
 The government had extended interest subsidy benefit to two sections of MIGs - 4% interest subsidy for buyers with annual income of Rs 6 lakh to 12 lakh and 3% interest subsidy for people having annual income between Rs 12 lakh and Rs 18 lakh - starting January 2017.
 
 Homebuyers aware of this benefit and hoping to avail of it only realised the gain won’t accrue to them after getting their loan sanctioned and making initial payment.
 
 People who could not avail the benefit because of the state government’s inaction have also asked why they should be made to pay the price since there was no fault on their part. They have also demanded that the benefit should be extended to those eligible people who bought the flats since January last year and qualify to get the benefit.
 
 
