KOLKATA: Parents of Soham Mukherjee, the 25-year-old IIM-Lucknow second year student who was found hanging in his hostel room on November 15, have written to Uttar Pradesh director general of police, outlining several inconsistencies in facts that contradict police’s claim that he had committed suicide. Should the police fail to explain the contradictions and prove it was suicide, the duo plan to move the court and seek a   probe.

 
 Pranati Bandhyopadhyay, Soham’s mother, and his father,  , disagree with the Uttar Pradesh police’s hasty conclusion that their son committed suicide and rubbish the reason they have cited for his extreme action.
 
 “We believe Soham was murdered. He was either drugged or smothered before being hanged,” said Badnyopadhyay, pointing out that it was odd that no pillow had been found in his room and that fresh blood steaks had formed on the morgue floor when his body was pulled out for identification.
 
 According to her, there are other discrepancies in material evidence in Room No. 71 allotted to Soham. IIM Lucknow authorities and police claimed the room door had to be forced as it was locked from within. But several students and even constables who were present that day told the parents a gentle push was all that was required to open it.
 
 “Even when we checked the room, the latch wasn’t broken as it would have had the door been forced. Neither was there any crack in the door,”   said. There were certain oddities too. “Where did his wallet that contained ATM/debit card, credit card, IIM-Lucknow ID card and Aadhaar card disappear?” she asked.
 
 The couple has taken strong exception to the police’s claims that they barely communicated with their son during the past 12-18 months, leading to a sense of alienation and depression that triggered the suicide.
 
 “Soham is our only child and our world revolves around him. We were in constant touch with him and spoke 15-20 times a month. In October, due to his engagement in the placement cell, he had asked us not to call for a fortnight. Thereafter, we were in regular touch. He called on the landline on November 10 and spoke to his father and me. It was a normal conversation. On November 12, it was late when we returned after a visit to the doctor. So we didn’t call him. I tried his number on November 13, 14 and 15 but there was no reply,” said Badnyopadhyay.
 
 She further argued that there was no reason for him to be depressed as he had done his internship at Aditya Birla Group and was about to appear for placement in December.
 
 The only discordant note that the parents have found was a jotting in his diary where he sounded perplexed about the sudden change in behaviour of friends from IIT Guwahati.
 
