GANDHINAGAR: To protest against the  ,   staged a walk out at the assembly on Wednesday. The  ,  , said that the MLAs were registering their protest over the speaker’s decision to suspend only Congress MLAs. During a marathon discussion over the violence that broke out in the house, both parties defended their members. The BJP members maintained that the party’s   had not, as was being alleged, abused anybody. Congress MLAs — led by Dhanani and his deputy Shailesh Parmar — closed ranks behind Pratap Dudat and Amrish Der.

  
  “The two Congress MLAs, who are new to the house, had complained that BJP MLAs Jagdish Panchal and Harsh Sanghvi were constantly abusing them,” Dhanani said. “The two BJP MLAs regularly use unparliamentary language.” Dhanani said his party’s MLA Baldev Thakor was trying to save his colleagues from harm and had not engaged in violence. For his part, Panchal said: “I am ready to resign if the Congress leader proves that I had abused his party’s MLAs. If he doesn’t have proof he should withdraw the accusation.” Panchal went on to say: “I had only asked Der to take his seat as he was questioning the decision of the speaker.”
 
 Nimaben Acharya of the BJP endorsed Panchal’s account. “I sit in front of him and I can assure the house that the MLA did not abuse anybody.” Minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja said that the violence had rattled the women in the house.
 
 Shailesh Parmar said that Panchal had provoked the two MLAs of the Congress. He said that Sanghvi too was involved in attacking Congress MLAs. Parmar demanded that action be taken against Panchal and Sanghvi.
 
 The speaker, Rajendra Trivedi, read out the transcript of the proceedings of the house which are recorded by the assembly staff. He said that Der and Dudhat had no role when the issue of point of order was being discussed between him and Vikram Madam. He said that during the proceedings, he had requested Der to sit down on 26 occasions. He said that the government was kind enough to suspend Dudhat for only three years. “After the violence, I had announced the suspension of Dudhat for the entire term, five years. But the ruling party has suspended them only for only three,” he said.
 
 Police protection for Panchal 
 
 Ahmedabad: The state government has decided to give police protection to Jagdish Panchal who had received threat calls after the violence in the house. The city President according to officials was provided one gunmen round the clock to ensure his security.
 
 
