NEW DELHI: The   on Thursday set a   for the National Highways Authority Of India ( ) to make the newly constructed Eastern Peripheral Expressway   after it was brought to its notice that the road could not be opened to traffic due to   of the   who is supposed to inaugurate it.

 Taking exception to the delay, a bench of Justices Madan B Lokur and Deepak Gupta directed that the highway must be open to public on or before May 31 after NHAI said it is waiting for the PMO’s response for the inauguration of the road. 
 
 The apex court had in 2005 directed construction of Eastern and Western Peripheral Expressways to decongest Delhi’s roads within three years to provide alternative route to traffic bound for other states. As the pollution level in Delhi increased to an alarming level, the court had said vehicles which are supposed to go to other states should not enter the capital. The two expressways — each about 135 km long — were planned in 2006 to form a ring road outside Delhi for channeling non-Delhi bound traffic. But the project got delayed due to various reasons.
 
 Eastern Peripheral Expressway envisages signal-free connectivity between Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Gautam Budh Nagar (Greater Noida) and Palwal while the Western Expressway connects Kundli to Palwal via Manesar in Haryana.
 
 Amicus curiae Aprajita Singh informed the court that the expressway is ready but it was not being operational. She pleaded the court to direct NHAI to make it operational as soon as possible to decongest traffic on Delhi’s roads. 
 
 Accepting her submission, the court said, “The NHAI shall ensure that the inauguration takes place on or before May 31, failing which it will be thrown open for public as Delhi is under traffic congestion and any delay in opening of the   will not in the interest of people of Delhi.” 
 
 The Haryana government also informed the bench that over 80 per cent of work on Western Peripheral Expressway had been completed and the project would be finished by the end of June.
 
 
