KOCHI: The high court on Monday said that the   can give a retest to a Class X student who was given an old Mathematics question paper to answer at the board exam held on March 28. A retest can be given prior to evaluation of answer sheets of other students who took the test, the court said.

 A petition filed by   of   in   is being considered by the court. Class X examinations were held from March 12 to March 28.
 
 As per the petition,   had answered all the questions in the Mathematics exam held on March 28. After finishing the exam, she was discussing the answers with her classmates when she realized that the question paper given to her was different from the ones given to the rest of the class.
 
 Upon detecting the mistake, Ameeya and her parents filed complaints to CBSE chairperson as well as to the regional officer of CBSE at Thiruvananthapuram. Through the complaints, they sought a redress to their genuine grievance of having had to answer the wrong question paper. No effective steps are being taken by the authorities nor have they even considered the complaints filed, it is alleged in the petition.
 
 The principal of   at   in Kottayam, who was the centre superintendent for the exams, had also verified the matter and found that the Summative-II question paper of Mathematics happened to be included in the bundle along with other question papers. This was duly intimated by the centre head to the regional office of CBSE by email, the petition said. A copy of the email obtained under   has also been produced before the high court by the petitioner.
 
 Ameeya and her parents decided to approach the high court upon learning that valuation of the answer papers will begin soon. They have contended before the high court that if the answer paper of Ameeya is not valued, it will cause irreparable injury and hardship to her and also amount to clear discrimination.
 
 Through the petition, the student has demanded that a court directive should be issued for prompt redressal of her grievance caused by supplying of a different question paper by the examination centre. She is also demanding that her answer sheet for Mathematics should be evaluated on the basis of the question paper supplied to her at the exam held on 28.
 
 
