JAIPUR: The fate of online Building Plan Approval System ( ), an initiative under the Smart Raj project to provide relief to thousands of residents in Jaipur and urban local bodies (ULB), is hanging in balance.

 Even after four months, the directorate of local bodies ( ) has failed to implement this system. This is the second time that the online service has failed to take off after the launch.
 
 On April 2015, the DLB had appointed   for launching the BPAS in 191 urban local bodies (ULB) in a phased manner. It was also assigned to conduct a survey of existing properties in these local bodies.
 
 Sources said that as per the conditions mentioned in the agreement, the firm had to start the online process in 32 ULBs by February 2017. In the second phase, it was assigned to provide the online service in 43 other ULBs. The remaining ULBs were to be taken up in the last phase.
 
 The project was first launched on June 8, 2016. However, many local bodies highlighted practical problems in implementing the online system. Thereafter, the BPAS was again launched on October 1, 2017, following directions from the state government. It has been four months now, but there is no progress on this front.
 
 Jaipur mayor Ashok Lahoti said, “The company is incompetent to start the service. It does not have sufficient manpower and other resources. We will soon write to the state government to take action and blacklist the company.”
 
 
 
 
 A source said, “Instead of imposing a penalty on the contractor firm, the DLB has given it an extension.”
 
 The project was aimed at pushing the ‘ease of doing business’ in the state.
 
 At the time of launch, the residents were assured that they won’t have to undergo the tormenting bureaucratic processes for acquiring several licences and approvals from different departments.
 
 In fact, it was claimed that the applicants won’t not even have to visit a single government office as all approvals would be provided online through Smart Raj portal.
 
 As a pilot project, the online service was proposed to start at all seven divisional headquarters and two district headquarters of Bundi and  , besides   (JMC) from October 1.
 
 A JMC official said, “We are still accepting offline applications at our headquarters.”
 
 As per the provisions, the building plan approval process has to be completed within 30 days. And if the approval is sought under the ‘fast-track process’, it has to be issued in 24 hours. The applicant can proceed with the construction after depositing due charges.
 
