NEW DELHI: British pharma giant GlaxoSmithKline ( ) plans to sell its consumer healthcare nutrition brands, including   and  , to fund its $13-billion buyout of Novartis’ stake in the companies’ consumer healthcare joint venture.

 
 The development, which is being touted as GSK’s biggest move since Emma Walmsley became CEO last year, has led to uncertainty at its Indian subsidiary GSK Consumer Healthcare India (GSKCH) as Horlicks contributes 80-85% to its revenue and India is the biggest market for the malt drink, insiders said. GSKCH reported a turnover of Rs 4,421 crore in 2016-17 and employs 3,300 people.
 
 “The purpose of the review is to assess strategic options for our well-known and highly valued nutrition brands, including Horlicks and Boost,” GSK said in a statement. “These brands are licenced and distributed through GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Healthcare, a publicly listed company in India, in which GSK owns a 72.5% stake. We expect the outcome of the strategic review to be concluded around the end of 2018. There can be no assurance that the review process will result in any transaction.”
 
 GSKCH, which also sells other consumer nutrition products such as Foodles, ActiBase,   and  , according to its website, wrote to the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE): “This is to notify that the company (GSKCH) notes the announcement by GlaxoSmithKline plc (GSK) of its intent to carry out a strategic review of GSK’s Horlicks and its other consumer nutrition products, which will include an assessment of its 72.5% shareholding in the company.”
 
 Horlicks, a dominant player in the health food drinks category with a market share of 44.1% MAT (moving annual total in value terms) as of December 2017, lost ground between 2015 and 2017. The category, pegged at around $1 billion, had slowed down due to several reasons, such as the availability of healthy substitutes, including juices and oats. India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh are the main markets for Horlicks, according to senior GSKCH executives.
 
 “Horlicks and Boost contributed more than 90% of GSKCH’s business,” said Abneesh Roy, senior VP-institutional equities-research analyst, Edelweiss Securities. “If this is sold, only auxiliary income, which the company gets from sales of Sensodyne, Eno and other such products, will remain. Last three years have been very tough for Horlicks. The category faced a slowdown, even while FMCG companies operating in other categories were doing well.”
 
 GSK said it will focus on growing non-nutrition brands (Crocin, Iodex and Eno, among others) in India. “The consumer healthcare business will continue to invest in growth opportunities for its OTC and oral health brands, such as Sensodyne and Eno,” said a GSK spokesperson. “The group is also actively investing in its pharmaceutical and vaccines businesses, including building new manufacturing capacity in Vemgal, Karnataka and Nashik.”Horlicks, which came to India with the British army during World War I, has enjoyed a significant franchise among children and women in the country. Its brand variant, Women’s Horlicks, became a leading brand, while Mother’s Horlicks became the No.1 prescribed pregnancy health food drink. The brand was extended to biscuits as well. GSKCH’s second brand Boost, endorsed by leading cricketers Kapil Dev and Sachin Tendulkar in the past and currently Virat Kohli, was re-launched in March last year with a new communication platform — ‘Play a Bigger Game’.
 
 
