HYDERABAD: Forensic doctors on Monday said in their preliminary autopsy report that all the five suspected woodcutters, whose bodies were found floating in the lake near Vontimitta off the   highway on Sunday, died of drowning. All the men were from   district in  .

 A team of forensic doctors conducted the autopsy at the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in   on Monday.
 
  Dr. L  , who was in the three-member team that performed the autopsy, told TOI: “Our preliminary observations are that they died of drowning. We will give a detailed report later. Viscera from the bodies has been sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) in Hyderabad to check for the presence of diatoms,” Dr. L Anand Kumar, who was in the three-member team that performed the autopsy, told TOI. The viscera will also be examined to rule out any possibility of poisoning.
 
 “As the bodies were soaked in water, the skin got peeled off. So, injuries cannot be identified on the skin. There are no internal injuries,” said Anand Kumar.
 
 He added, “Police told us that they had found torches and other equipment that are used by woodcutters. The lake is big, with the Somasila backwaters flowing into it, and only local people knew how deep it was.”
 
 The inquest report also hinted at a case of drowning. “The death may have taken place 36-48 hours before the bodies surfaced. Police have registered a case of suspicious death under Section 174 of the CrpC (Crime No. 33 of 2018) at the Vontimitta police station,” officials said.
 
 The forensic doctors have also collected collar bone samples and preserved them for DNA tests for scientific identification of the five men.
 
 Police sources in Kadapa said all the five men are woodcutters from Tamil Nadu. But they they have so far not identified any links with red sandalwood smugglers yet.
 
 A report from   on Saturday said Task Force sleuths opened fire on red sanders smugglers deep in the   forest when the smugglers rained stones on them in an attempt to get their accomplices released. The sleuths had confiscated 16 red sanders logs and nabbed five smugglers, while the others fled the place.
 
 
