By- 
 

 CHENNAI: The number of students enrolling to learn   in the city has seen a rise, with those pursuing engineering and science streams signing up for it, having   as a destination for further   in mind. Affordable and quality education, attractive pay in part-time jobs and favourable placements after the Master’s are the main reasons for students to prefer the country.
 
 Institutions like   (Max Muller Bhavan), Sprachlingua and Let’s Speak Language Training Academy, provide certified courses in German that aim at increasing the students’ linguistic competence. Goethe Institut enrolls over 250 students in its beginners level every four to six months. Prabhakar Narayanan, language director, Goethe Institut Chennai, said, “We had more than 3,000 students last year. The number of students applying is on an upward trend, leading to us increasing the number of batches.” 
 
 Sriram, founder of Sprachlingua added, “Most of the students learn German to pursue their   studies. We have more students for the beginners course this year than the last.”
 
 Almost every university in Germany expects a knowledge of the language to ensure that the students stay independent. Aditya Raman, pursuing B2 (an advance level) in Goethe Institut said, “Known for its automobile sector, all students aspire to study in Germany because of the opportunities available there. Learning German has made me feel confident.”
 
 Germany is also preferred for its science courses. Anaam Qureshi, a student of physics, had recently applied for a doctoral course in Neuroscience. “Germany offers a good scope for research with huge grants. Compared to Canada or elsewhere, the tuition fee is less. The universities I applied to did not ask for compulsory knowledge of German, but mastering three levels in the language is an advantage,” she said.
 
 Devapriya, a final year engineering student, added that the country provides a student-friendly environment. “Having pursued my final year project in Germany, I learned a lot about its rich culture and heritage. People there were more courteous and overjoyed when I spoke in German,” she said.
 
 Applicants from Chennai to German universities have increased, especially last year. Statistics from the German consulate show that about 80-90% of people travelling to Germany belong to the age group of 20 to 28 years, pursuing higher education. 
 
 
