MUMBAI: A memorial exhibit to honour the  ' (NCPA) founding father,  , will open to the public on May 16. The exhibit is divided into three parts: the first section will highlight his childhood, upbringing and family bonds; the second is a timeline highlighting important events in his life and his contribution to the arts; and the third section will focus on the formation of the   and its current position in the world of performing arts. 

 On display are Bhabha's personal family photographs, a centre table from his now-demolished bungalow -Mehrangir-at Malabar Hill, a board game he enjoyed playing with his family, his brother  's pocket diary and Padma Bhushan award, and silver artifacts from Mehrangir like trays, plates and toys. There is also a panel showcasing Jamshed Bhabha's many awards including the Commander of the Order of Crown, Belgium, 1979, and Commendatore of the Order of the Republic of Italy, 1976. Since   had asked that his personal letters never be displayed, the NCPA staff has filled one notebook with important quotes from his letters, which will also be part of the exhibition.
 
 NCPA, which opened its doors to the public in 1969, is Bhabha's crowning achievement. It was the first multi-venue, multi-purpose cultural centre in South Asia. Today, the NCPA hosts over 600 events each year across all major art forms including music, theatre, film, dance, literature, visual arts and photography. The permanent memorial exhibition, which will be placed in the right-wing of the main entrance to the Jamshed Bhabha Theatre, will also stream footage of past NCPA performances.
 
 "The focus of the NCPA has always been on the upliftment and preservation of the performing arts, which would not have been possible without Dr Bhabha's vision," writes Khushroo Suntook, chairman of the NCPA and curator of the exhibition. "His valued time and dedication at NCPA has immensely influenced young minds and helped us reach the stature that we have today. We are honored and proud to pay a tribute to the man who has helped establish this platform which welcomes talented artists from all over the world." 
 
 
