NEW DELHI: Police on Thursday arrested a 22-year-old youth for allegedly murdering his   friend when she threatened to expose his criminal activities. The woman, Nandini, was abducted by the accused,  , from   and murdered on April 17. 

 When contacted, DCP (central)   confirmed the arrest.
 
 Rabbani, police said, was a driver with an app-based cab service. He had created a fake identity to enrol with the service by giving a forged driving licence. The police are now probing how he was able to bypass the security checks conducted by the cab company.
 
 Rabbani has three criminal cases against him. In February, he was driving a stolen auto rickshaw in Khajuri Khas when he got involved in a minor accident. Rabbani attacked the driver of another vehicle with a blade and fled after leaving him severely wounded.
 
 During interrogation, Rabbani narrated to cops how he had met Nandini, a vagabond, three years ago in Connaught Place. He introduced himself as Neeraj and befriended her. The twist came when Rabbani stole an auto from UP and confided in Nandini about it. The relationship hit a rough patch as Nandini threatened to tell police about his criminal activities. Rabbani then allegedly hatched a plot to get rid of her.
 
 On April 17, police said, Rabbani abducted Nandini from CP and took her to an isolated spot in Gurgaon. He beheaded her with a paper cutter, dumped her body in the bushes and fled. He threw the cutter in Loni.
 
 A team, led by ACP Naresh Kumar, got a tipoff while investigating a case of an unidentified body found near Raj Ghat. A raid was conducted but the suspect was found missing. His mobile was switched off. The cops contacted the cab service and found that no booking had been made through his ID for the last eight days. “With the help of technical surveillance and local intelligence, the team detained Rabbani from   when he was going to CP,” DCP Randhawa said. They found photographs of Nandini from his mobile phone and matched them with the details uploaded by Gurgaon police on ZIPNET, the portal for unidentified bodies and missing people.
 
 
