Chandigarh: Describing the Punjab budget as anti-farmer, anti-dalit, anti-youth and anti-worker, Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal opposed the imposition of the Rs 200-per-month development tax on taxpayers, saying that the state government would break the back of Punjabis by burdening them with fresh taxes of Rs 9,000 crore.

 Former finance minister and SAD MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa said there was a mismatch of Rs 30,000 crore in revenue and expenditure. “Professional tax is a big burden on taxpayers,” said Dhindsa. He added that the state government has inlated non-tax revenue to Rs 5,000 crore, which was not possible to generate. “The Congress government has not even implemented what it has shown in its last year budget,” he added.
 
 The SAD president said the budget was a “fraudulent” exercise in “fudging” figures. “It shows the bankruptcy of ideas,” he said.
 
 Sukhbir accused the finance minister and local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu of revealing the budget before its presentation to assembly. “This is a criminal offence and a breach of privilege of the House. Both ministers deserve to be sacked. It has never happened before in the history of the country that the sacred budget is revealed before it is presented to the House,” he said.
 
 The former deputy chief minister said the SAD-BJP alliance would bring a privilege motion against the two ministers. He said they were considering legal measures to take action against ministers for their criminal offence. “The budget is a written proof of this government’s betrayal of every section of Punjabi society, particularly of farmers, farmhands, dalits, youth, employees, women and senior citizens,” said Sukhbir. 
 
 Union minister and Punjab BJP president Vijay Sampla said, “It is a vision-less and anti-people budget. Rs 2,400 yearly tax is a big burden on the tax payers. This budget is silent on pre-poll promises of the Congress which include distribution of smart phones ans Rs 2,500 per month unemployment allowance.
 
 
