Nineteen-year-old Varun Iyer recently watched the entire classic The Sound of Music for the first time. All through growing up, his father would switch off the film just before Captain Von Trapp kisses Maria. "He would say the good part is over so I never saw the whole film. That's how conservative my parents were,'' Iyer says.

 
 He recalls the time when he was 14 and studying in a school in Chennai. His class was abuzz with excitement at the prospect of finally getting to study the chapter on reproductive organs. "The teacher just skipped the chapter. Everyone was crushed." With such a hidebound environment at home and in school, the shy, studious boy discovered sex through the rambunctious jokes and innuendos of friends.
 
 2013 was the year Iyer discovered he was gay. It was also the year that he realised that being himself was against the law. In December 2013, the Supreme Court set aside a 2009 high court verdict and consensual sex between same-sex couples became a criminal offence again. "I hated myself. I hated everyone around me. It was claustrophobic,'' he says.
 
 Today, Iyer is the youngest petitioner against  , and perhaps the youngest to move the court on a constitutional issue. He, along with 19 other current and former   students, petitioned the SC seeking repeal of Section 377. The   alumni association of IITs, Pravritti, has filed the petition on their behalf.
 
 Iyer acknowledges that it has been a long personal journey from hate and insecurity to being the confident, vocal young man he is now. "I have cried in the bathroom in helplessness. There was no one I could talk to or who would understand how I felt. I was at the edge of depression,'' he says.
 
 Internationally, he says, there are gay icons like   and  . "In India, the only thing close to relatable in popular culture is Dostana (the movie). To add to it, are statements by politicians calling   unnatural and curable,'' he says.
 
 The sense of isolation ended only when he reached the IIT-Delhi campus. It was the first time he was away from his parents, and soon after the first semester he got in touch with members of Pravritti. "With their support I came out to pretty much the entire campus, and it was liberating. There were a few people who had a problem but most of the friends I hung out with, or spent time with in the lab or during quizzes with were fine with me as I was,'' he says.
 
 When members of Pravritti suggested he sign up as a petitioner, Iyer agreed eagerly. In its petition, Pravritti argues that several talented LGBT individuals have been forced to leave the country, a 'brain drain' of sorts, because of the inhospitable climate created by Section 377. It says that even within India, several LGBT alumni from IIT have chosen sectors or companies with progressive policies over careers in STEM fields or in government due to the fear of being targeted for their personal choices.
 
 Iyer plans to testify in court on how the psychological pressure of the law impacted him personally and affected his performance while preparing for the IIT entrance exam. Adding his voice to this debate comes at a heavy price. Is he ready for the public scrutiny? "The toughest person to convince I am gay was me. Once I had done that, I knew that the worst was over,'' he says.
 
