BENGALURU: The Election Commission’s decision to support a PIL in the Supreme Court which seeks to ban candidates from contesting from more than one constituency in elections has given politicians the jitters, but it may not prevent them from contesting from two seats in this assembly election.

 JD(S) president H D Kumaraswamy has already declared he will contest from Ramanagara and Channapatna. Chief minister Siddaramaiah, who revealed he will contest from Chamundeshwari, is also mulling contesting from Badami (Bagalkot). Speaking to reporters on Thursday,   said he has offers to contest from Badami, Kolar and Kushtigi. “I will contest from Chamundeshwari,” he said.
 
 KPCC chief, G Parameshwara, who lost by a huge margin in the 2013 polls from Koratgere, has been reportedly lobbying with the party high command for a ticket in one more constituency. The   leadership is also contemplating fielding chief ministerial candidate B S Yeddyurappa as a surprise candidate in a constituency in north  . Yeddyurappa had announced he will contest from Shikaripura, but the party is reportedly contemplating fielding him in two constituencies to play down the controversy over the separate religion status for Lingayats.
 
 O P Rawat, Chief Election Commissioner said, “We have submitted an affidavit supporting the PIL to bar candidates from contesting from more than one seat. Now it’s up to the Supreme Court to decide.”
 
 Former law minister M C Nanaiah said politicians in Karnataka have no reason to feel jittery — for now. “The law may not come into effect any time soon,” said Nanaiah. “The Supreme Court has taken six weeks to hear the case. And even if it bars netas from contesting from dual constituencies, it mandates an amendment to the Representation of People’s Act, 1951 in Parliament.”
 
 Section 33 of the Representation of People Act states that a person shall not be nominated as a candidate for an election for more than two constituencies, be it general elections/biennial elections and byelections for the House of People, council of states, legislative assembly of states or legislative council of states. If a candidate emerges victorious from both constituencies, then she has to give up one seat. If she does not resign from all but one seat within the prescribed time, all seats shall become vacant.
 
 Candidates contesting two seats is not new in Karnataka, be it assembly or Lok Sabha elections. In the 1999 Lok Sabha polls, Sonia Gandhi had contested against BJP’s Sushma Swaraj in Ballari and in Amethi, UP. Gandhi won both seats and eventually relinquished Ballari while retaining Amethi.
 
 
