Madurai: The number of calls received by the Railway Protection Force (RPF) at Madurai division on its helpline has been increasing considerably keeping its personnel fully occupied. In the last three days itself, the RPF has recovered valuables like mobile phones, baggage forgotten by passengers and rescued a boy who ran away from home.

 Listing out recent incidents in which the RPF recovered valuables, commissioner of Madurai railway divisional security, M F Mohideen said the division receives 50 to 70 calls in which five to seven are security related issues. Most of the calls are related to amenities, he said.
 
 Over the last few years, RPF personnel have been sensitising public to utilise the all-India security helpline 182. Apart from posting the number in all coaches, RPF used to undertake passenger conduct programmes at stations, creating awareness among the travelling public. 
 
 In 2016, RPF at Madurai recovered 46 bags left behind by passengers and another 49 in 2017. Similarly, RPF recovered 19 mobiles and one laptop in 2016 and 18 mobiles and one laptop in 2017, left by the passengers. 
 
 Rescuing children running away from homes is another task of the RPF, and they have so far saved 60 children in 2016 and 70 children in 2017. They have rescued 10 children this year. 
 
 On February 21, the 15-year-old boy from Villupuram district, who had left home after a domestic issue at home, was reunited with family at Dindigul. He was found roaming on the station premises and found by head constable of RPF, Poobalan.
 
 “Most of these children running away from homes are boys and there were some cases of girls too. Rescuing children is one of our important tasks,” Mohideen said. 
 
 General secretary of Railway Passengers Welfare Organization, K Padmanathan said the railway ministry in recent times started giving lot of thrust on passenger safety and security while on travel. There is also an option to post complaints to the railway minister. The pressure is imminent on RPF too and the results are visible. “In this matter of recovering the abandoned or lost items, RPF has started doing a good job,” he said.
 
 
