Since making his debut with Pilla Nuvvu Leni Jeevitam,   has acted in nine films till date, yet not once has he played a completely romantic role, bereft of any action. Breaking away from his massy action hero image, the actor is getting an image makeover with director Karunakaran’s next. “It’s a pure love story loaded with heart-touching romance and rib tickling comedy. Sai plays a boy-next-door, Teju who is in love with Nandini, played by Anupama Parameswaran. Her role will be on par with that of Sai’s and Anupama is doing a fabulous job. You’ll be bowled over by her performance,” promises  , who also wrote the story for the film.

 Incidentally, it was Karunakaran who set Dharam Tej’s uncle,   on the path to super stardom with the smash hit   two decades ago. Dialogue writer ‘Darling’ Swami reckons that the romantic track 
 between Sai and Anupama will be as good as the love story between Pawan and Keerti Reddy in the 1998 blockbuster. “I have absolutely no hesitation in saying that this will turn out to be one of the finest films of Sai’s 
 career. I can feel the positive vibes during the shoot, the way the members of the unit are enjoying the scenes. There are seasoned artistes like Pavitra Lokesh, Jayaprakash (JP), Surekha Vani and Pruthvi, which makes it a wholesome family entertainer. 
 
 If I have to pinpoint one thing that will stand out in the film, it will be the onscreen chemistry between Sai Dharam Tej and Anupama and the love track between them. It will be as good as the romance in Pawan Kalyan’s Tholi Prema,” says Swami, adding, “This is a completely original story and it will be a visual feast.” 
  
 Karunakaran chips in saying, “Had it not been for Pawan Kalyan, Tholi Prema would not have been such a humongous success back then. I know that expectations are bound to be high since I’m collaborating with Sai Dharam Tej. All I can say is that we have a winner on our hands.” 
 
 Apparently, music will be a central element of the film and Malayali composer   has been roped in as the music director. “It’s a musical film with a plotline that will have both an urban and a rural backdrop. We introduced Gopi Sundar to Tollywood with Malli Malli idi Rani Roju. We are extremely pleased with his work and he has delivered some great tunes for this film as well,” says producer KS Rama Rao, adding, “Karunakaran is a master at preparing beautiful love stories. We’ve worked with him earlier for Vasu (2002) and the music of that film was a chartbuster. And the music is going to be the highlight of this film.” 
 There are three montage songs in the films. While the makers haven’t finalised on the location for filming the songs, Munnar in Kerala and the US are on their wish list. “We have completed half the shooting and expect to wrap up the film by mid-April,” adds the producer. 
 Speaking about Sai Dharam Tej with whom he is working for the first time, Rama Rao says, “Sai is a dedicated and sincere actor. Soft-spoken and very easy to work with, he is one of the most talented among the younger heroes.” 
 
 
