Once again, as the lists of candidates are out, a debate rages around those who enter the fray solely on money and muscle power. Political scientist  , a senior fellow at the   in  , offers insights into this alarming trend in his recent book, 'When Crime Pays'. It studies five fundamental issues about the "perplexing cohabitation" of criminality and democratic politics: the incentives that criminal politicians have to fight elections; why parties choose these candidates; why voters elect them; what are the public policy instruments that can "limit if not eliminate" these elements and lastly, the implications of their presence for democracy and accountability.

 In an email interview to 
 , Milan explains some aspects of the symbiotic relationship between crime and electoral politics. Excerpts:
 
 
 
 The reason is two-fold. First, parties are desperate to identify wealthy, self-financing candidates. Those involved in criminal activity have both the ability and incentives to deploy resources in the service of winning electoral office. Second, from the voters' perspective, candidates often use their criminality to signal their credibility... There is the perception that tainted politicians "know how to get things done."
 
 
 
 My own research, and that of others, demonstrates that voters are typically well aware of the biographical details of the candidates they support. Perversely, they are voting for such candidates because, not in spite, of their criminality. A politician with criminal background manages to create an aura of a "godfather".
 
 
 
 The dominant strain we see in the data is "blue collar" crime, for lack of a better word. These are politicians associated with physical acts of abuse and/or throwing their "muscle" around. While it is true that there are a large number of politicians suspected of white collar offences, politicians exclusively linked with white collar crimes do not enjoy the same level of popular support, in my view. The people ask: what's in it for me?
 
 
 
 Caste and identity are inextricably tied to the "dabangg" image. Almost all strongmen mobilise on the basis of their social identity (be it caste or religion). This allows them to slice and dice the electorate in their favour while also establishing their bona fides with a committed group of supporters with whom they share a fundamental affinity. The politician's criminality is then cast in terms of protecting the status of his or her community as a defensive, rather than offensive, measure. It reinforces the idea of a Robin Hood narrative.
 
 
 
 I think trolling on social media is a way of asserting presence, much like advertising or traditional media is. The difference is the degree of individual and group targeting, which can be very sophisticated. I'm not sure I'd call it muscle power, but it is a way for politicians to assert their viability and demonstrate their credibility.
 
 
 
 If   loses Karnataka, it will be a huge blow for three reasons. First, it will damage the party's prospects of stitching together a 2019 coalition with Congress as its core. Second, it will cause practical damage as Karnataka is a source of huge rents for the party. Punjab remains the only other major state Congress controls, but it lacks the economic dynamism that Karnataka boasts. Third, it will have a demoralising effect on the party cadre.
 
 
