Popular television couple   and his wife   are having the best time of their lives. The lovebirds are expecting their first baby in November this year. Recently, Naagin 3 actress   Hassanandani and husband   Reddy purchased a new flat in the city and invited their friends for the housewarming party.

 Anita shared a picture of her friends on Instagram.   and   were also part of their celebration and were seen posing for the shutterbugs. In the picture shared by Anita, television actress Ankita is busy flaunting her baby bump in a pink dress. The picture made its way to the internet and Ankita's fans cannot get over her cuteness.
 
 Check out the photo here:
 
  
  
 Ankita is known for her unique fashion style and in the picture, the mommy to be looks best with the perfect pregnancy glow. Karan and Ankita have been married for three years now and kept denying the pregnancy news. Finally, after a few months, Karan and Ankita announced the pregnancy news on social media by sharing a fun post.
 
 The television heartthrob Karan announced the good news in a quirky way and posted a picture on his Instagram. He captioned it as, “A lifelong festival begins for @ankzbhargava And Me this November ...! #ConnotWait #Excited #Blessed #MomAndDaddaSoon ....! thankyou @shrutitejwaniphotography for the #Dhamakedaar #Photoshoot.” In the picture, Ankita is seen talking on the phone, while Karan is busy holding shopping bags and walking behind her.
 
  
  
 Speaking to Bombay Times, Karan shared, "It's sinking in slowly, and I am ecstatic. I can't go through the emotions and transformations, which Ankita is going through. It's a beautiful phase for her as she will graduate from a wife to a mother. I plan to spoil our baby silly with love and pampering once he/she is born."
 
 Karan and Ankita walked down the aisle on May 3, 2015, and Karan's co-star from Yeh Hai Mohabbatein Aly Goni who plays the role of Romi Bhalla in the show played cupid between the two.
 
 On the work front, Karan made his television debut in Kahani Ghar Ghar Ki in 2000 and is currently seen in Yeh Hai Mohabbatein wherein he plays the role of Raman Bhalla. While, Ankita made her debut with Sanjeevani and has worked on several shows including Reporters, Dekha Ek Khwaab, Ekk Nayi Pehchaan, Sajda Tere Pyaar Mein.
 
 
