GURUGRAM: A 34-year-old woman had to be wheeled into surgery on Wednesday for a knee injury she suffered inside a   because of a heavy jerk with which it came to a halt after sliding to the lower basement instead of stopping at the ground floor. 

 
 The lift, in Tower Y of   2, had started from the 15th floor, where Ritu Relan lives, and was bringing seven people to the ground floor around 10am on Tuesday but went all the way to the lower basement, where it jolted to a stop. Some of those inside the lift lost balance and fell on Relan, injuring her knee. Relan underwent a surgery at a private hospital in Dwarka on Wednesday. 
 
 Police, meanwhile, filed a case of negligence. Gurugram’s lift inspector   Punia visited the site and ruled out the possibility of a free fall. “They (residents) got into the lift on the 15th floor and pressed the button for the ground floor. But the software could not lock the call. As a result, the lift directly went into its pit at the basement 2 and hit the ground with a thud,” said Punia after the inspection. 
 
 “The lifts have many inbuilt safety features and there is no possibility of a free fall,” she added. “Lifts are very heavy, and if a free fall happens, it would be very dangerous, even fatal.”
 
 Punia also had a word of caution, saying lifts at the society were very old and the technology they use had become outdated. According to the Haryana Lifts and Escalators Act, 2008, the owner has to change lifts after every 20 years. 
 
 “The lift in question is 19 years old. Operation and maintenance of the lifts are the responsibility of the agency with the annual maintenance contract (AMC),” she added.
 
 Regency Park 2 comprises three towers (W, X and Y) and has 500 apartments. Occupation certificates were issued in 1999. The Complex Administrative Council (CAC) of Regency Park 2 released a statement, saying it had taken immediate steps to investigate the matter and also shut the elevator immediately. A private agency, AMC Service Providers, is inspecting all the elevators at the society, the CAC statement said.
 
 According to Relan’s police complaint, a driver and a maid were also injured in the incident. While she was taken to Ayushman Hospital in Dwarka Sector 10, driver Ashok Chowdhary (25) and domestic help Sarabani Das (30) were discharged from Paras Hospital after treatment on Tuesday. The four others had escaped unhurt.
 
 Doctors said Relan was stable and could be discharged from the hospital in a few days. But she would have to take a few weeks’ rest before she can resume normal activities.
 
 Relan said in the complaint, she had boarded the elevator at the 15th floor. 
 
 “Three of my neighbours also took the lift along with me, while two men and one woman were already inside the elevator. In between the 11th and 12th floors, the lift developed some problem and its gate started opening and closing on its own. Then, from the 9th or tenth floor, it starting plummeting, overshot the ground floor and came to a halt at basement 2,” she said in her complaint.
 
 Based on the complaint, an FIR was filed under sections 287 (negligent conduct with respect to machinery) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC at Sector 29 police station. No one was named in the FIR. 
 
 “We have recorded her statement,” said a police officer from Sector 29 police station.
 
 Satish Kumar Singh, a member of the CAC, said, “It is a matter of deep regret that an accident occurred in a block Y elevator.”
 
 The CAC, in its statement, said, “While the matter is being investigated, the possibility of a ‘free fall’ has been ruled out. Also, it has been established through CCTV footage that the passengers were rescued in less than five minutes of the incident.”
 
 The statement further said AMC Service Providers would submit its inquiry report by June 3. Each tower has three elevators, which are being operated under a licence (valid till August 20, 2018) issued by the lift’s inspectorate. According to CAC members, the elevators were manufactured by Bharat Bijlee Limited under the brand name Olympus. 
 
 “This company was subsequently taken over in 2002 by Kone, who has been maintaining the lifts through an AMC till March 31,” the CAC stated.
 
 The society, according to the CAC, has placed orders with Thyssenkrupp for new lifts in January and work for installation of new lifts is expected to start in July.
 
 
