CHANDIGARH:   managed to protect 799 lives in 2017 as the state reduced the road accident fatalities by 15.7% last year as compared to 2016. 5,077 persons were killed in 2016 but the number came down to 4,278 in 2017, thus saving Rs 810 crore for the state in terms of the socio-economic cost. What’s more, road accidents deaths in the first quarter of this year have gone down to 1,070 in Punjab, as compared to 1,134 in the same period last year.

 Punjab   (traffic) Dr Sharad Satya Chauhan, while addressing the media on Friday, said that working in association with state public works department, state police had identified 400 accidental black spots. Out of these, most critical 142 spots have been improved. This, he said, was one of the main reasons for the drop in the road fatalities in 2017.
 
 The ADGP claimed that Punjab had become the first state in reducing road fatalities by adopting scientific ways to reduce crashes through predicting and preventing. “Indeed, we do not believe, it is an act of God,” said the ADGP.
 
 Explaining about various initiatives being made by the Punjab government to save precious lives, state traffic advisor Navdeep Asija disclosed apart from three E’s of road safety — Engineering, Enforcement and Education — the state government was also focusing on two more E’s — Engagement and Electronics. To this Chauhan added that the Punjab traffic police were continuously improving highway patrolling, rapid rural policing, evacuation and post-crash facilities.
 
 Chauhan added that Punjab lost 12 valuable lives in road accidents every day in 2017 and therefore the traffic police were putting special focus on road safety during fog season, which resulted in 28% reduction in fatalities (319 in 2017) as compared with 441 in 2016.
 
 “We are targeting 10% reduction in road fatalities each year,” he added. The ADGP (traffic) said to encourage citizens for helping road accident victims, traffic police would start “Bhai Kahnaiya Sewa Sanman Pattar” from this year.
 
 Chauhan said with the help of NGO’s like ‘The Patiala Foundation’, traffic police were spreading awareness across the state. Traffic police were also developing ‘green corridors’ in all major cities of Punjab to provide uninterrupted routes for free and fast movement of ambulances from outskirts of the city up to the hospitals. Also, 32 traffic aid posts-cum-Saanjh posts were also being set up on each toll plaza.
 
 The ADGP said three MoUs had been signed with the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University, Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College at Ludhiana and Guru Ramdas School of Planning at Amritsar, for taking up joint research activities required for modernizing, engineering and enforcement approach. Chauhan said such an initiative would also help in setting up of research and development centre for the road safety in Punjab.
 
 
