GHAZIABAD: An 18-year-old girl and a woman teacher with whom she was in a relationship were arrested from Ghaziabad railway station in connection with the murder of the former’s mother on March 9.

 Police said the girl had attacked her mother with a blunt weapon during an argument over her relationship with her teacher. The police said the teacher, who is around 35 years old, was also present at the girl’s home in Mansarovar Park when the mother was hit.
 
 The girl’s elder sister had found their mother lying on the floor and bleeding profusely when she returned from her tuitions. The mother, Pushpa, was rushed to   in Delhi, where she succumbed to her injuries two days later.
 
 The father,  , who works as a transporter, had lodged a complaint at   police station on the day of the attack and an FIR was registered against the girl and her teacher, both of whom were untraceable.
 
 The duo were allegedly trying to flee the city when they were arrested, the police said. The 18-year-old girl is believed to have told the police that she did not intend to kill her mother but did so by accident after the argument turned bitter. The teacher, too, was present in the house then. 
 
 “The girl and her friend were responsible for the woman’s death. The incident took place over the relationship that the girl shared with her teacher. Her mother constantly opposed the relationship, which strained her ties with her daughter. The girl hit her mother on the head with an iron rod during the argument on March 9 and she subsequently died,” said Ghaziabad SP (city) Akash Tomar.
 
 Sources said the girl had entered into a relationship with her teacher when she was in Class IX. She had left home in September 2017, when she was still a minor, to live with her teacher at a rented accommodation in Arthala. The family had approached the police then and the girl was brought back home on January 28. Though the family had not lodged an official complaint, the police had taken a declaration from the woman teacher saying she would keep off the girl in the future.
 
 While being brought to the police station on Tuesday, the girl said: “I was afraid my mother would kill me. My family didn’t take good care of me at home, so I went to live with my teacher. We were in a relationship for the past six months. I have no idea where I will live once I am released from jail.”
 
 
