LUCKNOW: No more that long wait for public transport, or having to sweat it out in a traffic jam to access important markets and public places of the city. You just need to hire a bicycle at Rs10 an hour to reach your destination. Also, you can then drop-off the bicycle anywhere since they will be GPS-enabled. 

 
  
  
 
 The bicycle will later be located by another person looking to rent it on a specific mobile app. This app has been developed for the bicycle-sharing model of Lucknow and will soon be launched by the Lucknow Municipal Corporation ( ). The concept has been developed under the Smart City project, which looks after the transportation needs of the city.
 
 Bicycle-sharing has emerged as the most environment-friendly and cost-effective method to commute within a city. It is estimated that more than a thousand cities all over the world have adopted the bicycle-sharing programme, including Australia, Europe, Asia, North and   etc. In India too, the concept has already been successfully implemented by Bhopal, Pune, Delhi, Mumbai and Mysuru etc. LMC has inked a contract with a Bengaluru-based company to provide 50 cycles in Lucknow as a pilot project. Prominent areas of Gomtinagar have been identified as the pickup and drop-off locations for these bicycles. The official in charge of the project said, "The bicycle-sharing programme will be launched from   (JMP) from next week. We are waiting for a nod form the urban development minister." 
 
 Since the project is executed under Smart City, any changes in locations, expansion and rent will need consent from the SPV-Lucknow Smart City Limited. Initially, bicycles will be allowed to commute between JMP and Husadia Crossing. The route will also have 12 parking facilities for the bicycles. However, LMC is promoting a dockless bicycle-sharing model where a rider can park the cycle anywhere. These cycles are tracked by GPS, so the app will suggest the exact location of the bicycle to the next user.
 
 All users have to first get registered at an annual cost of Rs400-500. Later, as they CAN book a bicycle through the app, the rent will be debited directly from their account.
 
 
 
