RAJKOT: In a brutal case of police excesses came to light in Visavadar town of   district after an 18-year-old girl committed suicide after being allegedly beaten up and abused by the police station cops. 

 The girl Ashiyana  , a first-year college student, consumed poisonous tablets at her house near Visavadar bus stand. She was rushed to the civil hospital but died late on Wednesday night. Following orders from Junagadh superintendent of police,  , six policemen, including two female constables were booked. As per case details, police had seized Ashiyana’s father Razzak Hasham Modi’s four-seater vehicle that was parked near the Visavadar bus stand two days ago. Modi, 52, followed them to the police station to get it released. However, the policemen started hurling expletives at him and later thrashed him. In the meantime, Ashiyana also reached there when she got to know that her father was beaten up. However, the cops allegedly abused her verbally and beat her up. 
 
 Ashiyana, traumatized by the cops’ behaviour, went home and consumed tablets meant to keep away rodents and insects from the grains. She was rushed to the civil hospital in the town but she succumbed during treatment. She has an elder brother and younger sister. Her death sparked furore among the family members who refused to accept her body until action was taken against the responsible policemen. It was only after Junagadh SP’s late night intervention and assurance of action that they accepted the body for burial.
 
 In the complaint lodged by Modi, he named police sub-inspector Parmar, PSI Chaniya, two male constables and two female constables. The two PSIs went on a sick leave as soon as a complaint was lodged against them. It has also come to light that the CCTV cameras installed in the police station have been non-functional for the past several days. The accused cops have been booked under section 306 (abetment to suicide), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and others. Investigation of the case has been handed over to RB Solanki, cirle police inspector, Visavadar.
 
 In 2017 too Ashiyana had tried to commit suicide by consuming poisonous tablets after the police had seized her brother Aslam’s rickshaw. “The family has also encroached upon the bus stand land and built a house,” said RD Vadher, Visavadar police inspector. In 2014, Modi was also booked for gambling.
 
 
