NEW DELHI: In line with the training of officer trainee of the Indian Administrative Services, now new academic recruits of universities, colleges and centrally funded technical institutions too will have to undergo mandatory residential induction programme. To start with, the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), has identified 40 institutions which includes six IITs – Kapur, Kharagpur, BHU, Madras, Bombay, Hyderabad – India Institute of Science, Bangalore, Indian School of Mines, Dhanbad and seven Central Universities, among others to be the training centres. The new recruits will undergo three months of training, where they will participate in 12 course modules. 
The three-month induction will have 12 modules which will offer a wide range of courses from as diverse as evolution of the higher education sector of India to history of one’s own university to contribution to the growth and development of curriculum to pedagogic techniques. Teachers will also be trained on areas such as personal-emotional development and counselling, stress and time management and understanding personality of learners. 
 
 The induction training will also deal with a module on effective use of technology for teaching, learning and evaluation with focus areas on digital classroom and teachers’ preparation, ICT based teaching and assessment methods, role of ICT tools in teaching and learning. 
 
 Apart from project work and field visits, the participants will also engage in activities like brain storming sessions, group activities and presentations, moderator-led discussions, case studies and panel discussions, among others. 
 
 According to professor A K Bakhshi, chairman Guru Angad Dev Teaching Learning Centre of MHRD and Centre for e-Learning,  , “In these   induction programmes teachers will be empowered to meet the challenges of the 21st century. When a teacher is recruited, sometimes the pedagogical skills are missing. The focus of the training is on pedagogical skills – innovation in teaching methods – and on ICT skills. Through this programme we will not only create good teachers, but also good researchers as future leaders.”
 
 Apart from sensitizing teachers towards learner centric approaches, according to the recommendations of the GoS, the objective of the mandatory induction programme is also towards curricular reforms in the context of interdisciplinary and applied approaches, more scientific evaluation process to encourage the development of multiple skills of students and faculty development programmes in four areas – personal, instructional, organizational and professional. 
 
