NEW DELHI: Describing the three-hour long   by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, with cabinet ministers and  , outside his office a  , lieutenant governor   said on Monday that no proposal on   had been received by him. He said the protest was held to “mislead” the public. “The CM has ignored the fact that his own cabinet has not yet considered the departmental proposal for CCTVs. It is only after cabinet approval that such proposals are sent to the LG,” said Baijail in a press statement after the dharna ended.

 The LG reiterated that in the letter he wrote to the CM on Sunday, he had clarified that neither had he received any proposal for installation of CCTV cameras, nor had he issued any orders to stall or stop award of the CCTV work.
 
 The LG’s office said that despite seeking time to meet him on the issue and despite the LG agreeing to meet, the CM and his council of ministers, along with party MLAs and one MP, preferred to sit on a dharna near his office rather than meet him and articulate and resolve the issue.
 
 A tweet from the LG, in which he expressed this view, drew a sharp reaction from the CM who denied on Twitter that it was a protest. “We came to meet you with prior intimation. We waited for three hours on road. LG must meet public representatives and the public also. If no proposal for CCTV received, then why did you set up the committee (on CCTV)” CM asked.
 
 The LG said the CM’s allegations were without any basis and based on unwarranted apprehensions about stalling of the project. “The committee formed under the principal secretary (home) has very clear terms of reference and is only to facilitate successful implementation of CCTV surveillance. Security and safety of women and vulnerable sections can only be achieved with successful outcome of CCTV installation. Without proper regulation and standard operating procedures, such outcomes are not possible,” the LG said in the letter.
 
 He said the objective should be to determine how the CCTV cameras were to be used to prevent and detect crime without compromising the fundamental right to privacy.
 
 The LG stressed on the need for a proper framework in the wake of the fact that more than two lakh cameras have already been installed in the city without any coordination. He said that all CCTVs in public places should work with a common objective of law enforcement, prevention and investigation of crimes in a coordinated, purposeful and regulated manner. “The LG has never stopped this project. In fact, his initiative facilitates successful implementation of the project,” said the statement.
 
 
