Nagpur: Para-sportspersons who overcame adversities with   and ingrained their names in history books by scaling greater heights were felicitated at an event organized by Dadasaheb Balpande College of Pharmacy (DBCOP) in association with Ambe Durga Education Society, on Wednesday.

 The college accorded felicitation to Sandip Gawai, Pratima Bonde, Kamlesh Lanjewar, Vaishali Thool, Mangesh Umredkar, Mohd Hafeez Ansari, Nidhi Tarare, Mangesh Kaware, Mangala Adamkar and Triveni Barve, besides many others who competed at the district, state and national levels and won laurels. The awards, given in memory of Dadasaheb Balpande, founder of the institute, were given to sportspersons with disabilities for excelling in their chosen field.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, district sports officer Avinash Pund said “Science and sports are the most important things to excel in life. Science shapes the mind while sports the body which go hand in hand and can create wonders.” He congratulated the para-sports athletes for showing dedication and also appreciated DBCOP for holding such an event.
 
 Senior coach Bhau Kane said, “I know how much sacrifice these sportspersons have to make to get to the place where they are now. I salute you for that. I am honoured to be in your company and felicitate you with this prestigious award.”
 
 RJ Niketa congratulated the awardees and asked them to continue hard work. She spoke briefly about the difficulties faced by those afflicted with disabilities and asked them to keep the winning spirit alive. Niketa, who is engaged in creating awareness among people about voting, asked the para-sportspersons to fulfil their constitutional duty without which they will have no voice to raise their demands.
 
 Principal Ujjwala Mahajan said the aim of the college was to produce professionally competent pharmacists who could fulfil the needs of the industry.
 
 Present at the function were president of DBCOP Manoj Balpande, vice-president Umesh Balpande, VP Sabale, NM Mahajan, AG Pise, VM Thakare and RS Kharwade.
 
 (Reporting by Syed Ali)
 
 
