VIJAYAWADA: In a bid to curb sunstroke cases in the city,   ( ), along with voluntary organizations, has started implementing summer action plan almost two weeks in advance. 

 The temperature in the city has touched the mark of 40 degree in the past two weeks and this has become a matter of grave concern for the people who are health conscious.
 
 Usually, the city witnesses high temperature after the second week of April, but the situation is getting different this year. The intolerable heat waves are being felt mostly in the afternoon hours.
 
 Major streets in the city, including Eluru Road and   wear a deserted look due to the scorching heat in the afternoon and as a result, the cases of sun strokes are also on a rise almost daily. 
 
 “We are unable to come to the streets due to the heat waves in day time. It has become a routine for us to postpone our important works daily and frequently, we are getting dehydrated due to the heat,” said M. Naveen Kumar, a marketing employee.
 
 The VMC, which started focusing on reducing sunstroke cases, has erected free drinking water stalls across the city to help denizens stay hydrated. “Sun strokes claim many lives in the city every year and we have started distributing water and buttermilk among people for the last three years following the directions of chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu. We started distributing water early this year, considering high temperature,” said deputy mayor,  . However, people are complaining of the poor quality of drinking water arranged by VMC in streets. “VMC’s intention to supply clean drinking water is commendable but we are unable to drink hot water in summer. Officials should arrange pots, instead of the iron tank, to provide cool drinking water,” said V.B Naresh, a B.tech student.
 
 Animal lovers are arranging water pots in the city to quench the thirst for stray animals.   (IIJR) is distributing free tanks to provide drinking water and requesting denizens to arrange water pots on the roofs of their houses to help birds get hydrated. 
 
 
