PUNE: The   bandh called by various dalit organisations on Wednesday paralysed normal life across the state with violence breaking out in several cities and towns. Commuters, students, traders and office-goers faced a harrowing time with transport services being thrown out of gear for the second day running. 

 Shops, eateries and commercial establishments either stayed closed on their own or were forced to down shutters by protesters. A 16-year-old student, Yogesh Jadhav, died of injuries he suffered in violence in   district. His family alleged that he sustained serious head injuries during police lathicharge. 
 
 This was the first death reported from the Marathwada region in connection with the Koregaon Bhima protest. On Wednesday, scores of members from dalit groups poured out onto the streets from early morning in response to the bandh call given by Prakash Ambedkar’s Republican Party of India Bahujan Mahasangh. 
 
 Motorcycle-borne youths waving blue flags forced shopkeepers to down shutters in most cities across the state, including Mumbai, Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad, Nagpur and Aurangabad. Small-time vendors conducting their businesses bore the brunt of the protesters’ fury. Furious citizens alleged that police acted like mere bystanders, allowing the protesters to cripple services which started normalising only after Ambedkar called off the bandh in the evening. 
 
 Protesters blocked traffic on the   expressway and Pune-Bengaluru and Pune-Solapur highways. Medical services were hit with not just hospitals, but even clinics seeing very few patients. Most autorickshaws and radio cabs stayed off the roads in Pune. Passengers flying into Pune were stranded for hours at airports. 
 
 In  , around 40 people, including eight policemen, were injured in stone-pelting. Two of them are critical. In Aurangabad, nearly a dozen cases of rioting and attempt to murder have been registered against protesters for throwing stones. An assistant commissioner of police and a few constables were among the injured. Authorities suspended mobile internet services in the city for 24 hours. 
