Coimbatore: A year into RERA, buyers still unaware of the regulator. A poll conducted by property portal Magicbricks, showed that 74% of respondents do not know that it is mandatory to check if the project is registered with state Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) and how to go about checking it on the RERA website. “Even a year after its implementation, the RERA (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, seems to be far from creating the connect as 74% of home buyers still don’t know how to check if their projects are registered under this Act,” according to a Magicbricks Consumer Choice Poll. Though 12 months have passed since RERA’s enactment, 15 states are yet to set up websites where developers can list their projects and consumers can check all information about projects, the survey found. “For a law which is aimed at protecting consumer interest and promote fair play in real estate transactions, this is a poor number,” it said. “States where the governments have been proactive and got the website and the machinery going have also seen a large number of consumers using it to check the legality of their project,” said E Jayashree Kurup, Head, Editorial and Advice, Magicbricks. “However, since a large number of states are yet to get their act together, consumer awareness too is low,” she said. Even though developers are following the mandate of mentioning their RERA registration number in the advertisements that they feature, not many home buyers can cross check the details at the official portal in states where the websites are not up and running, the survey found. Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh were the first states to be ready with the RERA authority and websites on May 1, 2017, when the law became a reality. Maharashtra’s real estate developers are registering their projects with RERA authority websites and are mentioning the registration number in their advertisements. “Developers and brokers across Maharashtra swear that consumers are actively using the website and keeping themselves up-to- date with approvals, stages of construction and all other details related to the project. More than 15000 projects are already registered with the MahaRERA,” the survey said. In Gurugram, more than 150 projects are registered but as there is no Haryana or Gurgaon RERA website that is operational, consumers cannot use them as reference points to check approvals or completion status. However, consumers can either mail or physically visit the offices in Gurgaon and Panchkula and get their problems and doubts cleared. “As a prospective home buyer, you must check the information about the project put up on these websites. The details on the brochures and marketing material have to conform to what is posted on the website. Moreover, the RERA website also informs you about the projects available in your area,” JayashreeKurup said.  All states have adopted RERA, which are in various stages of execution. In case a RERA portal is not functional, a home buyer can check with the RERA authority about the status of the project. If an under-construction project is not registered with the state’s RERA authority, the consumer can make a complaint to the authority which then has to ensure that the project is registered.  Home buyers can check the RERA registration number on the advertisement of the developer and then cross check it on the website.