MUMBAI: In an interim order on Wednesday, the   restrained the state from renewing the agreement with the   to provide water from Pavana dam to its stadium in Pune for   matches, reports Shibu Thomas.

 A division bench of Justices Abhay Oka and Riyaz Chagla questioned the state and the MCA about the agreement that water would be provided to MCA for industrial purposes. “We fail to understand how water can be provided to MCA’s stadium for industrial purposes. It is not the case of the MCA that their stadium is an industry,” the bench said.
 
 
 The MCA had applied to the state for renewal of a 2012 agreement on providing over two lakh litres of water.
 
 Drought in state but water being used for the pitches: PIL
 
 The agreement had said that the water would be made available to the stadium for drinking and industrial purposes. MCA’s lawyer claimed that they were paying higher charges for the water, but this failed to impress the court. The court is hearing a public interest litigation filed in 2016 by NGOs Loksatta Movement and Foundation for Democratic Reforms that alleged that lakhs of litres of water was being misused to maintain cricket pitches when the state was reeling under a severe drought. That year the court had directed that matches including the final be shifted out of the state. The NGO’s lawyer informed the court that 11 IPL matches were scheduled to be played in the state, and four more matches were shifted to Pune after Chennai pulled out over protests due to the Cauvery water dispute.
 
 MCA claimed that it would use around 60 lakh litres of water that it had collected from rain water harvesting. The bench observed that watering the pitches was a recreational use and by no stretch if imagination could it be termed as industrial use.   meanwhile told the court that it would not ask for extra water from the BMC or any other authorities for its stadium in Mumbai. The court reserved its judgment.
 
 Reacting on the HC directive, MCA secretary Riyaz Bagwan said, “We don’t need to use the Pavna water. We have enough water in the reserves.” He explained that their rain harvesting programme at the stadium premises means MCA has 16 lakh litres water of their own. “Even if we take 50,000 litres water for match days during the IPL, it should be enough. Plus, PCMC has agreed to provide us treated sewage water which is not potable.”
 
 
