THATHIAN MAHANTAN( ):   (PPCC) president   has taken the ‘langar’ route to hit at SAD and its alliance partner BJP, which is leading the Union government.

 Addressing a gathering at Thathian Mahantan village in Tarn Taran district on Thursday, Jakhar said, “Akalis couldn’t even make their alliance partner in the Centre to waive the GST on langar served in gurdwaras.” He also blamed the Akalis for raking up religious issues and alleged that they had not made any effort for GST exemption on langar.
 
 Gurdaspur MP Jakhar asked SAD president Sukhbir Badal to clarify whether he agreed with Union finance minister Arun Jaitley’s statement of giving one and a half times the price for the crops over the costs incurred by farmers. “Sukhbir can’t comprehend that on what basis the SAD MPs are singing paeans for the Union budget when it is a cruel joke on the farming community,” he alleged.
 
 Quipping at the SAD-BJP regime in Punjab, the PPCC president said Akalis had always claimed to be a pro-farmer party but when it came to protecting their interests, it left them in the lurch. “Even after ruling Punjab for 10 years, SAD didn’t formulate any rule for farm-debt waiver,” Jakhar alleged. Hailing the ruling   in Punjab, he said chief minister Amarinder Singh-led government had announced the debt waiver scheme. “Akalis are not being able to digest this pro-farmer measure,” he claimed.
 
 Jakhar also asked Akalis whether they were in favour of debt waiver. At the same time, he announced that all Congress MLAs would visit every village to ensure that no eligible farmer remained devoid of the benefits of the loan waiver scheme. Later talking to newspersons, Jakhar claimed that the Congress had inherited an economy, which was in a shambles and was trying to bring it back on track. “The present economic crisis in Punjab is due to the wrong policies of the previous dispensation,” he said.
 
 He alleged that the previous SAD-BJP government converted irregularities of Rs 31,000 crore in the foodgrain accounts into loans just a day before the counting of votes in the assembly elections, consigning Punjab’s future into darkness. Among others who were present on the occasion included Patti MLA Harminder Singh Gill and Tarn Taran MLA Dharamvir Agnihotri.
 
 
