 This was no Halloween party, but still it was tough to recognise the guests as some had covered their faces with masks and veils and a few were painted to look like a clown or the Joker from The Dark Knight. The Traditional Masquerade of the   Christmas Week was a gala celebration of the Russian Christmas Week at the  . The embassy was specially decorated for the occasion. "This is the product of the hard work and creativity of the embassy team," said the ambassador of the Russian Federation,  , who was perhaps the only one who decided "to be easily recognizable" at the party.

  
  Lidia and Igor Boldyrev (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
  'Fancy costumes and masks, all kinds of unrecognizable disguises' - the dress code mentioned in the invite was taken very seriously by the guests. Most of them told us that the masks were bought from Venice! A majority of the guests had put in some serious thought and effort into looking unique. We spotted quite a few fans of Breaking Bad as there were around five guests who chose to dress up as characters from the popular series. Igor and Mike had done such a good job with their looks that even their friends could not recognise them. Igor was dressed "as a Russian tourist, who spend months in India and continue to stay even when they run out of money." With his face covered with a mask and carrying two machetes (not real though) in his hands, Mike was dressed as Jason Voorhese from the horror film Friday The 13th.
 
  
  Russian ambassador Nikolay R Kudashev and RS Jaura (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
  PAAN, ANYONE? Amit Mittal
 
 
  
 Getting ready for this party wasn’t an usual affair for guests - some told us that it took them weeks to come up with an idea for their look and arrange costumes. Sangeeta Kapoor, who was dressed as a mermaid, and her husband Rajesh Kapoor, who wore a costume that could easily be a costume for a witch in a horror movie, had ordered their outfits from China. "We wanted to look unique and started looking for ideas when we got the invite. We found out online that such costumes were easily available in China and there were many varieties. We got our costumes shipped from China and got them in two weeks' time," Sangeeta told us. A guest who was dressed as the Joker ended up at a ladies' beauty parlour for his makeup. He told us, "I went to a salon for my makeup and realised only later that it was only for ladies! I managed to persuade them to do my makeup," he said.
 
  
  Rajesh Kapoor's version of a witch's costume
 
 
  
  VC Burman
 
 
  
  Igor, dressed as a Russian tourist, and Mike, dressed as Jason from Friday The 13th
 
 
  
  SARI GALS: Christina and Volga
 
 
  
  Robson Fernandes
 
 
  
  Carlos Mate (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
  Members of Oscar Jazz band from Moscow
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
  Sergey Kanashin and Anastasia Vorontsova
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
