Sitting in the corner of a room packed to the hilt with close to 25 people, two grand pianos, a few violins, violas, cellos and numerous notation stands, apart from fans crammed in small clusters, German pianist,   seemed pretty much at home. His rehearsals for the first-of-its-kind four-day Western classical music concert held in the city recently had just gotten over and the placid look on his face had made it clear that it had “hit the right notes”. “I have been to Hyderabad once before to keep a private invitation, but this is my first trip to the country as a performer. It is an exciting one as my audience is one that’s not familiar with the pieces and composers I play. Hence, the fresh approach to my playing. The hope is to cater to some curious ears and open hearts,” says the soft-spoken Martin, meticulously choosing his words like the musical pieces he performs, as he pulls a chair and settles down for an interview.

 
 
 Born in 1982, Martin was the first student from former   to attend the Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach Musikgymnasium, a musical high school in erstwhile East Berlin and one of the only three such institutions in Germany. “It is a very special school in East   that follows theRussian curriculum. And after the war, I became the first pupil from West Berlin to get enrolled in it,” he says, adding that it was a very important time of his life. “It was an interesting cultural experience. Although I had a lot of relatives and friends in the East, the war had made direct contacts impossible. We could visit the East once in a while, but not at will,” he adds.
 Like in case of most musicians, Martin was first introduced to music by his parents. But they being, as he puts it, “nothing close to ‘serious musicians’, introduced him to what they loved. 
 “My parents introduced me to singing, playing instruments and then it was upon myself to discover that this is what I want to do. As a child, I was always rushing to the piano after school and preferred it over all other activities. So, my parents were quite surprised when this enthusiasm kept growing and growing. I knew I want to be a professional pianist,” says the 2006 Crédit Suisse Young Artist Award winner.
 
 
 Chamber music is something which Martin holds very close to his heart. The pianist, who has performed with some of the most respected 
 orchestras across the world —Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra, the Deutsche Sinfonie-Orchester Berlin and Royal Flemish Philharmonic, among others, says that there was a time when pianists, the really good ones, preferred playing only solo and that somewhat restricted their approach to the instrument. “Today, a pianist should try to imitate the colour of other instruments. For instance, the natural vibration of the string instruments, the flow of motion of the wind ones and so on. All of that piano doesn’t have, because it’s a very remote percussive instrument. And to gain inspiration, a pianist has to play together with other instrumentalists,” he says.
 Martin credits his mentor, Russian-born cellist Boris Pergamenschikow, one of the most respected figures in the European chamber music, for introducing him to chamber music and enabling him to respect the spirit of making music together. “Boris, as a cellist, pushed me to play with all his students. It was a masterclass of cellists at that time. Boris always tried to motivate talented pianists to play as much chamber music as possible,” he said.
 
 
 If there is one thing that baffles Martin about India, it’s why Western classical music doesn’t have the kind of patronage it enjoys in other parts of the world. “It really amazes me is that despite having such a rich
 tradition of Indian classical music, which actually has influenced a couple of 20th century composers such as  , there hasn’t been a breakthrough for Western classical music in the country. At the same time when you look at China, there are millions learning the piano,” he points out. 
 
 
 
 Martin’s personal life too is not any less musical. Married to cellist Marie-Elisabeth Hecker, the duo are regularly seen performing across the world. So, what’s it like to be on stage together? “I met Marie professionally before we became a couple. And we still have that professional mode, like we had when we first met. There is so much mutual respect. I definitely consider her a better musician than myself. Maybe she will say the same, I am not sure. And it’s exciting because when you get to know each other better, many things work out automatically and then you don’t have to concentrate on doing the basics right,” he explained. However, they don’t carry music to the dinner table. instead, it’s theology which they love to talk about at home. “We are actually this one couple, who prefer switching off and not carry musical topics to a supper table. For a lot of couples it may work like that but not with us. We are both active Christians and interested in theology. So, we actually talk about that, than music. For now, we are planning to move to our country home from Berlin, and are planning to have our own festival there sometime,” he says, signing off. 
 
