Be it a platform in order to stay connected or finding new and old friends,   is one of the most used social media platforms for most internet users. It has come down to a situation where the number of likes on your posts and pictures depicts and describes your social life. On the other hand, for a few it is a medium to market their business, be it small-scale or big. Given the extensive use of the platform, everyone is worried about the #DeleteFacebook trend and the buzz around how it apparently misuses one’s private data.
In the wake of this alleged data breach, many business pages and celebrities have been deleting their Facebook pages. We spoke to city students to find out what their take on the #DeleteFacebook trend is...
 
 
 
 “Invasion of privacy, that’s a huge deal. But then again, one should be aware of what they say or share on the internet. The internet isn’t a safe place, be it Facebook or any other social media site. You need to be careful as to what information you share on it. I, for one, will not be deleting my account, because I don’t feel my privacy is threatened. The information I’ve shared is what I believe to be general. There is nothing sensitive out there. People should just be aware of what they post rather than say stuff they know will end up in some problem.” 
 
 
 
 
 “It has always been a good idea to not put every intimate detail of your life on Facebook. Deleting your account now is as pointless as boycotting a movie, because you don’t like its content. The latest happenings should serve as a wake-up call for people who overshare on the internet, not just Facebook.   has taken the responsibility for the shortcomings and has agreed to work with the government to ensure that this doesn’t happen again, that sounds promising as of now. ‘If you’re not paying for the product, you are the product’ seems to be a relevant quote to remember now, and we must be wary consumers of the social media henceforth.” 
 
 
 
 
 “Well the so-called #DeleteFacebook controversy has affected many, including me. People like me are addicted to social media so much that we end up sitting in one place, finish all the dealings that we have and share all our personal details to the unknown... Facebook was my best friend when I was a teen, now I use it only for information, voicing out my perspective towards the issues. This news was a real shock. Invasion of privacy? It is scary, but I think I’m okay as I have not shared any personal information. I’m happy to deactivate my account as I’m really done with it.”
  
 
 
 
 “Technology is moving at a faster pace than government policies. The government must have updated policies in place to regulate data because I feel a private organisation such as Facebook is not responsible to take a decision for three million people’s data. Fake news and propaganda have become more effective than the actual truth. The actual truth is that people are now blaming Facebook for data they willing decided to upload in the first place. So what good will deleting my account do? Once data is out there, it’s out there, because it can be copied and can always be reproduced. By some fate, it is Facebook that is an example of this. What about the Aadhar data? Hopefully, the government will now be more aware. As for me, I will not be deleting my Facebook. 
 
 
 
 
 “I believe that once you are on a social networking site, it goes without saying that you are prone to invasion of privacy. So just deleting Facebook is no solution, because we definitely have done the same on various other sites as well. So what is in our control is the content we post and I think we need to be careful about what we share, that’s most we could do keep our information safe! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
