HYDERABAD: Industries and commerce minister KT   on Sunday said the Centre should create a conducive environment for states to engage with foreign countries to secure more foreign investment.

 “If we have to pole vault India ahead, this is the support the states require,” he said. Rama Rao was speaking at the ‘Deccan Dialogue’ a ‘conference on economic diplomacy for development’, organised at the Indian School of Business (ISB) here by the economic diplomacy and states division of the Union ministry of external affairs.
 
 Describing India as a heterogeneous country, Rama Rao said it can be called United States of India. “It is more than a country. You could call it a continent. While China is homogeneous, India is a different and complicated country and it’s this variation of culture that can be leveraged to its own advantage,” he added.
 
 Rama Rao batted not only for Telangana but also for neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. He said the MEA should undertake a resource mapping of states keeping their strengths in mind. “The strength of each states should be made across the world so that engagement with those countries on the economic front become easy and relevant. The stronger the states are, the stronger the country becomes,” Rama Rao said.
 
 He said for instance Telangana, a land-locked state, has 42 per cent urban population with strengths in life sciences and other areas. Andhra Pradesh has a coastline. These could be used to the advantage of the respective states.
 
 “Telangana has broken stereotypes to emerge second for two successive years on the ease of doing business (EoBD) in the country and this ranking from no less a body than the World Bank of India. The Centre should engage more with the states in the federal structure to help the states surge ahead,” he added.
 
 “If you want to paint India with a broad brush, it is not the right thing to do. This is what is done in Word Bank reports or by consultants,” he said. He said India was being described as a land of snake charmers and elephants and stray cattle on roads. “That’s not far from reality but the truth is we have many more things to offer to the world. The description of India is incorrect,” he said.
 
 The minister said for every 200 km or so, the diversity changes. He said if Uttar Pradesh were to be looked as a different administrative unit like a country, with its 22 crore population, it would be the sixth largest country in the world.
 
 The minister said whether it was   as chief minister of Telangana, Narendra Modi as Prime Minister of India, or Donald Trump as President of the USA, the idea of economic diplomacy was to help aid creation of jobs.
 
 While thanking Union minister Sushma Swaraj and VK Singh, for their Indian missions abroad and help to Telangana, KTR urged Singh to organise the “Deccan Dialogue” as a permanent event twice a year in Hyderabad.
 
 
 
