SECUNDERABAD : The sprawling 2-acre   ground in  , where several sporting giants dribbled to glory is now under   control. The five-decades-old football nursery on Trimulgherry Road has now turned into a physical training ground for soldiers. The issue has snowballed into a controversy with local football players launching massive protests on Monday after the army fenced off the field and set up iron barricades to stop entry. Two days ago, a signboard stating — Military Training Area — came up on the field, marking the soccer ground as defence land.

 Footballers, who participated in four Olympics between 1948 and 1960, and many home-bred players who excelled at national tourneys, practised on the ground.
 
  
  
 
 The ground was the playing field for likes of Peter Thangaraj, D Kannan and T Balaraman – all Olympians – and internationals John Victor, Surender Kumar, former India captain Victor  , Aleem Khan and Pratap Seelan.
 
 It was also home to Shastri Soccer Club, Kennedy Club, Bolarum Sporting, RK Puram and Gandhinagar Clubs, which were the city’s football cradles.
 
 
 
 On Saturday, the Local Military Authority ( ) stopped football players, stating it’s the new address for physical training of Army’s trainee soldiers.
 
 The tussle between Army and civilians over the ground is not new and TOI has in possession two key documents, which prove the ground was meant for football.
 
  
  
 
 Aletter issued by   in September, 1979 states — This ministry (MoD) has no objection to the site being used by civilians as a football ground. The letter further stated as per general land records (GLR), the vacant land in Sy No: 291 was earmarked as a football ground for civilians of Trimulgherry. The possibility of making this site available for a football ground has also been considered, keeping in view requirements of civilians of the area in mind, the letter said.
 
 More importantly, on June 16, 1981, the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi wrote to M RKrishna, an MP from united  . The letter stated, “It will continue to be available as a playfield for the local population.”
 
 A delegation led by senior football players met senior Army officials on Monday and requested them to allow players to practise. “This is the only ground identified with football all through the year,” said Amal Raj. “It’s an unfortunate development. Football is in doldrums now, compared to our times in Seventies and Eighties. This is bad for the game,” he said.
 
 “It’s unfortunate the Army has put restrictions on youngsters and is preventing them from playing the game. We met Army officials and requested them to give permission, but they bluntly refused and told it was an A-1 Defence land. But we will fight for the ground till we receive a positive response,” a senior football player and resident of Trimulgherry, Tony told TOI.
 
 Players and residents along with representatives of ‘Save Bison Polo Ground’ campaign protested in front of the ground, demanding they be allowed to practice.
 
