RAJKOT: In the heinous murder and rape case of a two-and-a-half-year-old girl in a village near Morbi on Wednesday night, the culprit was nabbed on Thursday night. Accused identified as Suraj Chauhan (25), a native of Bihar, confessed to his crime on Friday, the   said. 

 Police said Chauhan, a labourer, lived in a hut adjoining the hut where the victim lived with her parents at the under- construction Rose   tiles factory in Bela village, some 10 km away from Morbi town. He had abducted the girl while she was asleep with her parents, then took her to a distant jungle, where he allegedly raped her. After committing the crime, he threw her in a farm pond, 1 km away from the factory. The girl drowned in the pond and her body was found on Thursday morning. 
 
 “Chauhan had come from Bihar to work as a labourer eight months ago and lived alone. We have started the process of conducting medical examination of Chauhan to confirm his role in the crime. Chauhan confessed to murdering and raping the girl during interrogation,” Morbi deputy superintendent of police Banno Joshi said. 
 
 On the night of the incident, the victim’s mother had put her to sleep on a cot. The victim’s parents, also labourers from Bihar, had decided to sleep outside their hut to escape heat. At 2.30 am, when the victim’s mother woke up to attend the nature’s call, she found her daughter missing. “The girl’s parents started frantically searching for her, and in the wee hours on Thursday found her body floating in a farm pond. She was allegedly drowned by the assailant. As there were injury marks on her private parts and lips, rape was suspected. We sent the girl’s body for forensic postmortem in Rajkot Civil Hospital, which confirmed that she was raped,” Morbi taluka police station sub-inspector Shaktisinh Gohel said. 
 
 This case comes close on the heels of rape case of a four-year-old girl, daughter of labourers in Kuranga village, 32 km from temple town of Dwarka, on April 24. The rape survivor’s mother lodged a complaint in which she said that her daughter was raped by an unidentified person at the labour colony of RSPL’s upcoming soda ash plant in Kuranga. Police have so far questioned more than 1,000 suspects in the case. However, the key accused, whose identity is yet to be ascertained, is yet to be nabbed.
 
 
