INDORE: The association of unaided   has once again moved high court against orders by district collector for submitting an affidavit regarding bus safety and compliance of additional norms for school buses in district. 

 The association has challenged the order passed by single bench of the high court in which the petitioner was directed to raise their grievance before collector through appeal. 
 
 The association members have stated that since they have challenged the authority of collector to pass such an order, the appeal cannot be heard by him. 
 
 “The collector had passed an order directing schools to ensure certain extra safety norms in school buses such as putting seat belt for each student in the bus, limiting speed at 40 kmph, appointing female attendant in bus etc., which are outside the scope of Motor Vehicle Act,” advocate Gaurav Chhabra counsel for the petitioners said.
 
 Division bench of Justice PK Jaiswal and Justice Virendra Singh heard the writ appeal and directed the respondents to file their reply before next Tuesday. 
 
 The association of unaided schools have additionally filed the appeal before collector under Section 144 (5) of CrPC which will be heard on Monday, a day before the next hearing at the high court. 
 
 On the other hand, in a similar petition filed by ICSE Schools association before the high court, the district administration sought time to file their reply and stated before the bench of Justice JK Maheshwari that they were changing the proforma of the affidavit to be filled by the schools. 
 
 This petition moved by the Regional Association of Schools Affiliated to   has stated that the due process of law under the motor vehicle act had not been followed while prescribing new rules for school buses in the district. The petition has challenged the order passed by the collector and another order passed by the RTO in which schools have been directed to follow the new conditions. 
 
 These orders were issued following the accident of   bus at Bypass Road on January 5, which claimed lives of four children and bus driver.
 
 
