SHIMLA: The hill town, which was once the Summer capital of British India, is reeling under acute water shortage, forcing residents to take to the roads demanding water for basic needs. But the protests do nothing to ease the burden on the hill town, which was originally designed for 25,000 people and now has a population of around 2.20 lakh. Arrival of around 15,000 to 20,000 tourists in the peak season compounds the problem. 

 Even as the population of Shimla burgeoned, authorities failed to come up with a drinking water project to meet their requirements. Now, residents are blocking roads and holding midnight rallies and officials are attributing the water crisis to the heat wave depleting water at two major zones - Giri and Gumma. 
 
 It is being claimed that the Giri water scheme, that has an installed capacity of 20 million litres per day, is providing only 9.75 million litres of water per day. The Gumma scheme is providing 10.60 million litres of water per day against an installed capacity of 21 million litres per day.
 
 The water supply system in Shimla was established in 1875 for a population of around 20,000. While the population has increased to around 2.20 lakh, no major supply scheme has been introduced to meet the spiralling demand for drinking water. 
 
 For a few years, a dispute stalled a scheme to bring water from Chanshal in Rohru or Satluj in Sunni. Now, finally, it has been decided to bring water from Satluj through Kol Dam. This scheme is likely to be completed by 2023, sources said. 
 
 Former Shimla deputy mayor Tikender Panwar said piecemeal intervention will not help. “What is required is a leapfrog action. The money is there but execution of action to fetch water from a perennial source is slow,” he said, adding that the impact of climate change is evident. “Due to little snow and more rain, water is hardly retained in the short span. An overall resilient strategy is needed,” he said. 
 
 Former DGP I D Bhandari said the crisis of drinking water in the state capital is intensifying by the day. “Shimla was planned by the British and they were also planning to shift offices of the Panjab government to Dalhousie to ease congestion in 1904,” he said, adding that a major water supply scheme is needed to meet future requirements.
 
 Advocate general   submitted before the state high court on Monday that check dams and reservoirs could be constructed to store water over a long period of time. This water could be used in times of scarcity, especially in the summer months, he suggested.
 
 Chief minister   said missing snow and rain last year precipitated the current water crisis in Shimla. He said in 2016, Shimla received 35 million litres of water per day, while last May, water supply was 34 million litres per day. “This month, we are receiving less than 22 million litres per day and are trying to improve the situation,” he said.
 
 To meet future requirements, he said, the Rs 700 crore World Bank funded project to draw water from Kol Dam would be completed at the earliest, depite the fact that uts scheduled completion time is 2023. “Before that, measures will be taken to develop new water sources for Shimla town,” he said.
 
 The 22 km water supply line through Satluj river from Kol dam is designed to provide around 35 MLD water. Once completed, the Kol dam drinking water project will fulfill drinking water needs of Shimla and surrounding areas for the next 50 years as the project has been conceived keeping in mind the population in 2030.
 
 
