GURUGRAM: A 150-year-old dam in   of  , which has been supplying water to   for decades, has now been encroached upon by the land mafia. 

 The dam is spread over 150 metres and its catchment area covers over seven kilometres. The land mafia has taken over both these areas which fall under Section 4 & 5 of Punjab Preservation Land Act (PLPA). 
 
 
  
 
 After the massive ‘Gurujam’ of 2016, the authorities had made comprehensive plans to revive water bodies in the city to prevent waterlogging during the monsoons but the condition of dams supplying water to prominent lakes in the Aravalis remains vulnerable.
 
 Many plots within the   area have been demarcated with boundary walls. Trees, which don’t fall under the protected category, have been grown in the plots over the past two to three years. 
 
 “The land mafia first demarcated the plots for farmhouses and banquet halls by constructing boundary walls. Later, trees were grown on the plots. But as soon as a plot is sold, the land mafia cuts the trees and hands over the plot to the buyer. It is shocking that all this is happening under the nose of the administration,” said a local villager, requesting anonymity.
 
 The land use of the plots in the area has also been changed in the revenue records to facilitate transfer to individuals. 
 
 Jitender Bhadana from Save Aravalis, an environmental NGO, alleged that the change of land use of dams was a result of a nexus between the land mafia and the revenue department. 
 
 “These dams were built by the British to protect the area from flooding and conserve groundwater. But revenue records of these dams now show the land to be in the name of individuals who can sell the same to real estate developers for construction of farmhouses. This doesn’t happen anywhere else in the world. How can the administration transfer this land to individuals?” asked Bhadana.
 
 He added, “After Independence, 5,000 acres were given to every village of Haryana. No consolidation of land has been done in some of these villages yet. Anangpur is one of them. A few influential people, including politicians, have forcefully obtained the approval for consolidation of land in these villages. During the process, they managed to get the land under their name. Local people have been opposing such consolidation but the authorities have not taken any action.”
 
 The TOI team visiting the Anangpur dam found local property dealers openly marketing plots in the dam’s catchment area. 
 
 The plots range between 100 to 200 square yards. “The plots are located next to a 150-year-old dam. The dam and the plantation around it give the area a picturesque view. It is an ideal location, away from the city. We have already sold 80% of the plots,” said a local property dealer to a TOI correspondent who was posing as a prospective buyer.
 
 Vivek Kamboj from  , an environmental NGO, said, “Despite the disaster (‘Gurujam’) in 2016, the authorities have not learnt any lesson. They need to understand that simply cleaning up a few ponds is not going to help. They need to ensure that the natural drainage system of the city, dependent on water bodies, dams, vegetation and several other factors, is protected.”
 
 Built in the 11th century by the Britishers, the dam supplied water to a 10-kilometre area in Faridabad as well as lake Surajkund, located nearly two kilometres away from it. “Surajkund lake which was built to recharge groundwater and conserve the biodiversity of the Aravalis, was protected even by the British. The British constructed the dam for this reason. However, though the Archaeological Survey of India has been assigned to protect the dam,   is rampant in the area,” Kamboj said.
 
 Mohammad Shayeen, commissioner of municipal corporation of Faridabad, told TOI, “I am aware about the encroachment. The issue has been brought to our notice by a few people. We have formed a team to be led by a joint commissioner to look into the matter. Besides, we have informed the forest department about the encroachment.”
 
 
 
