Ludhiana: The   by government bank employees on Wednesday affected industrialists as well as small traders of the city as transactions worth several hundred crores could not be processed. According to city businessmen, instead of going on strike for getting their demands fulfilled, the bank employees should adopt other means. They should keep in mind that the city’s industrial sector should not be affected beacuse of such steps, the traders said. 

 Gurmeet Kular, president of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO), said government should take immediate precautionary measures to prevent such strikes, which are a hurdle to the growth of the industry. “Industries hugely depend upon the banking systems and hence the strike by bank employees is a major setback for us. We request union finance minister Piyush Goyal to kindly take immediate action and resolve the issue and ensure that such strikes do not take place in future,” he said.
 
 According to Manjinder Singh Sachdeva, general secretary of FICO, Wednesday has been a stagnant day for the industry. Employees of State Bank of India, which is the largest bank in India, also being on strike, every affiliated bank and the online systems of processing transactions were badly hit. What is even worse is that the strike would continue even tomorrow creating difficulties. “We urge the employees to call off tomorrows’ strike for the sake of industry and common man, and instead use some other way for getting their demands fulfilled,” he said. 
 
 Rajkumar Singla, president of Fastener Suppliers Association of India said, “As majority of the businessmen have their current or loan accounts in government banks only, the worst sufferers are industrialists and businessmen only. When even one hour of work disruptions in banks can cause huge problems for us, one can well imagine the implications of two days’ strike. It’s high time the government, Indian Bank Association and bank employee unions sit together and sort out their differences so that this kind of situation is averted in future.”
 
 
