KOLKATA: Medica Superspecialty Hospital’s attempt to put a leash on medical representatives (MRs) has opened a can of worms. 

 While doctors, pharmaceutical co mpanies and MRs rued the move, patients were happy that the restriction will lessen the waiting time to see a doctor. The hospital, meanwhile, has stuck to its guns on the decision of charging each MR Rs 350 for allowing three hours to meet doctors on its premises. “This is a ridiculous move and such regulation does not exist anywhere else in the country. As a consequence, MRs might stop visiting this hospital. 
 
  
  
 The doctors will be deprived of information on new medicines, latest trends and new findings,” said  , senior vice-president with Zydus Cadia. Those in the pharma industry insisted that one-to-one interaction between doctors and MRs is essential not only to promote a brand, but also to brief doctors about latest trends and medical information. However, there is a perception among the public of doctors giving MRs priority over patients at times. “I have come across doctors entertaining MRs, ignoring the long queue of patients waiting for consults. How can they give priority to MRs at the cost of a patient’s time? It is good that steps are being taken to restrict MRs’ entry to the hospital,” said  , a teacher who frequently visits the hospital with her ailing father. 
 
 Doctors in Kolkata felt the regulation of MR visits was essential, but added that such measures should be rational and not trivializing to their profession. Charging a fee, many felt, was too harsh. “We cannot deny that MRs are an integral part of the medical fraternity. Instead of levying fees, we can adopt better ways of restricting their visits,” said oncosurgeon Gautam Mukhopadhyay. Debasish M Banerjee, vice-president of a Bangalore-based pharma firm, admitted that the rising number of MRs — due to mushrooming pharma companies —could be a matter of concern for hospitals. “I understand the hospital’s concern when too many MRs swoop down on a particular day. But it is absurd to do something like this. It cannot undermine lakhs of MRs across the country,” Banerjee told TOI. 
 
 Though   maintained the step was taken to discourage MRs and encourage doctors to prescribe generic drugs, doctors and pharma firms felt that generic medicines should be of a certain quality to be prescribed. “The concept of generic drug is good and countries in the west are adopting this after assuring the quality of the drug. But here we need to ensure the quality of the generics before we ask doctors to prescribe those,” said  , national sales head with Ratnam Healthcare.
