Madurai: In an age when the shelf life of food items depends on the chemicals used and consumers are growing increasingly wary of adulteration, the sight of a product being made right in front of your eyes is bound to have many takers. That explains why those exclusive oil stores with ‘marachekku’ (wooden oil extractor) or rotary machines have been springing back to life of late and many others are mushrooming in city. 

 M C Kumar, the owner of Arasamaram Vinayagar Vilas in Kamarajar Salai, a third generation oil producer, says his shop has been at the same spot since 1931. A photograph of his grandfather’s bullock-drawn wooden extractor adorns a wall of his shop. ``Those were the days when packed refined oil was available. But then, there were seven wooden oil extractors in various parts of Madurai and every day saw not less than 100 customers come to the shop to purchase oil,” he said. The man reminds you that plastics were not in circulation then and oil was purchased in vessels by the people.
 
 In the last 30 to 40 years, there had been a lull in business, but now things have started picking up. ``I no longer have a wooden extractor, but extract oil using rotary machines. I tell customers that it is not “chekku ennai”, but promise them that it is free of chemicals. Business is picking up and now my son, a BE graduate, is ready to enter the trade,’’ he said.
 
 R Rathinakumar, owner of a shop in Chinnakadai street in the heart of the city, says he got a carpenter well-versed in the making of `chekku’’ to fashion a wooden extractor. He ensures that his customers get the best. Traditionally, jaggery is added to extracted gingelly oil to maintain the balance in taste. With good quality jaggery not easily available, a kilogram of gingelly oil costs as much as Rs 450. ``There are people who are ready to pay for quality oil,’’ he said. Otherwise, palm jaggery (Karupatti) and sugarcane jaggery (vellam) are mixed and a litre of oil costs Rs 220 when extracted in a wooden extractor, he said. These shops operate with an FSSAI licence.
 
 Though many of these new oil shops don’t have wooden extractors, they have rotary machines to extract the oil. They get heated due to the metal in the machine unlike in the wooden version where it is cold- pressed and all the nutrients are retained. ``A wooden extractor can crush about 120 kilograms of sesame in eight hours, whereas a rotary machine can crush up to 420 kilograms in the same time’’ says A Vinod Kumar, who has taken up the trade but is a BE graduate. A kilogram of seed produces slightly less than 50 % oil. People are also queuing up to buy groundnut and coconut oil the same way.
 
 Johnson of Meenakshi Nagar is a regular buyer of cold-pressed oil who says he feels as though his taste buds have been rejuvenated. ``The very fact that this oil is not adulterated brings back the taste from my childhood days, something I have been missing for over 40 years,’’ he said.
 
 Amsavalli of Southgate says that the oil is more turbid, has a very distinct taste and has an aroma, all of which are lacking in refined oil. ``While this oil is heavier, two spoonfuls of cold-pressed oil can equal five spoons of refined oil. So we also tend to consume less oil and here in a healthier form,’’ she said.
 
 Vox pop:
 
 Johnson, a resident of Meenakshi Nagar, ``I am happy that people have started realising the goodness of cold-pressed oil and brought back the traditional taste to our dishes,’’.
 
 V Selva Meenakshi, a homemaker from Villapuram,``These cold pressed oils are costly but they are worth every penny,’’.
 
 M C Kumar a third generation oil trader, “Unrefined, non-chemical oil is becoming slowly popular again’’.
 
 R Rathinakumar, an oil shop owner, ``People are ready to buy good food and oil if they are offered unadulterated, even if they are expensive,’.
 
 
