A number of students often opt for a gap year after school or college to gain experience before perusing their higher education.   asked a few college students about their thoughts on gap year. Here’s more…

 FOR
 
 Taking a gap year gives an individual adequate amount of time to explore all the available options in his/her field of interest. Decisions taken in haste might often lead to regret. One might as well take his time and make the right decision. 
 
 
 In my opinion, gap year becomes an enriching experience for a student, provided he or she uses the year wisely. I have a few friends who have taken a break from their college to get away from their strict schedules and take some time off to discover themselves. This has actually given them space to discover their true calling. I feel a gap year is never really a year down the drain, but a year which can shape your life. 
 
 
  I feel that taking a gap year is a good as you can explore a lot during that one year. If utilized properly, students can make the most of this year and gain experience in their respective fields of interest, which is like an added feature on their resume 
 
 AGAINST
 
 For people of our age and the caliber they possess, taking a gap year would not be such a good idea. We should remain focused from day one and not take any further time to reach our goals. The world is moving at such a fast pace that even if you slow down a bit, the world would’ve moved further away, making it difficult to catch up. Career opportunities, early start for more experience, and adaptation to various environments... everything would be at stake if you waste time on ‘figuring things out’ at this age and time. 
 
 
 I feel taking gaps in between studies is bad. I have seen many students following this and they are unable to finish of their higher studies, resulting in a lack in qualification for higher positions in their respective work fields. Also, getting back to being a student is not easy or convenient for many once they have got a taste of freedom from parents. I feel it's safer and much better to complete your education at a stretch to avoid any hiccups in the future. 
 
 While the majority of students start their degree in the same year as finishing school/college, many students decide to take a year out. I feel the need for a gap year while studying is bad. Taking a year off will put you further back on the educational process. You can easily lose your momentum. All the skills you possessed and learnt during the course of your education may be forgotten and in return make your transition back to college difficult. Not only that, it will even cause a huge financial toll on you. Not only will you have to see to your expenses for that year, but the fees for your college next year will also be higher than now. This is why I think that the need for a gap year is bad and not necessary. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
