NEW DELHI: Unhappy over the apparent slowdown of the sealing drive in the city, the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring   has directed the municipal commissioners to pull up their socks. 

 A committee member said they had been closely overseeing the daily compliance reports and though no target had been set for municipal officials, it was obvious that the drive had slowed down and the proper enforcement was lacking.
 
 The three corporations have been regularly citing “non-availability of police force” since the Republic Day celebrations as the main reason behind less number of units being sealed. The member said the committee had ordered   to immediately provide the required number of officials.
 
 “Amid strong opposition from traders, we can’t put the safety of our officials in danger. On multiple occasions, our teams had waited for hours at police stations for a security team but none was provided,” said a senior official of the east  . “Even our field staff have been complaining about insufficient number of policemen.” 
 
 On Monday, the south corporation could not even start a drive in Sagarpur and abandoned another in   just after sealing four units due to stiff opposition. “Only four security personnel were provided while a huge crowd gathered there,” an official said. 
 
 Another official said the force was missing despite the police station concerned being informed 10 days in advance. “During the last sealing drive in 2006, several civic officials were injured and even shot at in some places,” he added.
 
 The residents welfare associations, which are against any hasty amendment to Delhi Master Plan 2021 to stop the sealing drive, called it an intentional delaying tactic.  , the general secretary of Confederation of NCR RWAs and a part of the RWAs’ ‘Save the City’ campaign, said, “All these are being done to create a window to suspend the sealing drive till DDA’s proposed amendments are sped through. The   is rightly reprimanding the agencies. It should intervene here, too.” 
 
 Regimon CK, vice-president of Dwarka Residents’ Forum — which is also part of the ‘Save the City’ campaign — agreed. “All rules are being flouted. MPs are meeting the urban development minister just to provide relief to traders. Just like DDA, Delhi Police is also under the same people,” he said.
 
 Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday discussed the ongoing sealing drive with Delhi MPs, LG Anil Baijal and DDA vice-chairman Udai Pratap Singh. “We discussed solutions to the ongoing sealing campaign against commercial establishments by the monitoring committee,” Delhi BJP said in a statement.
 
 
