PUNE:   might feel clay is a less punishing surface than hard, but he should try convincing  .

 
 “Maybe if I had won the French Open 10 times, I would enjoy the surface too,” quips the ever quick-witted Delhi player. “Probably you should ask Roger Federer why he is missing the entire clay season,” he drives home the point.
 
 The topic is, of course, the challenge posed by the red dirt.
 
 “There is a lot of sliding, a lot of running and changing direction. You perhaps have to set up a point two-three times before you could finish it off … It’s very taxing on the body,” said India’s No. 1 player with a world ranking of 94 from Paris.
 
 He has been drawn to play Chinese Taipei’s   in the first round. Lu, aged 34 and ranked 113, has a 2-0 record against Bhambri. Both his wins came in Challengers in 2012 and 2013. But the Indian is in a zone from which it will be difficult for any opponent to shake him off.
 
 Bhambri’s coach   pointed out what has kept his ward in good stead all these years and will do so again over the next few matches, irrespective of the surface. “He doesn’t really relish playing on clay, but he is a very creative player. He knows the court well and knows how use it,” said Sachdeva from Delhi. “The best thing about him is, he takes the ball early and takes the time away from the opponent.”
 
 Bhambri gave a peak into his mindset when he explained why he headed directly into the Grand Slam without playing any tune-up event. “I wasn’t sure of making the French Open and by the time I made the ranking I had entered other events. I would have still played some claycourt events if I were in the main draw of Madrid or Italian Open. I prefer to play in main draws to playing in the qualifiers,” he said.
 
 He hasn’t been entirely 100 percent fit in the lead up to the year’s second Grand Slam as he recovered from an abdominal muscle tear. Yet, he has ensured there would be no lack of preparation when he steps on court in Paris. After training with Sachdeva at the DLTA, which boasts of a   standard claycourt, product of a tie-up between AITA and the French federation, Bhambri has been practising at the championship venue with Stephen Koon, his other coach.
 
 “We know there are four Grand Slams and they are the most important events on the calendar. There is not a single player who would say, ‘I want to do well at one major and not the other’,” he said.
 
 "Based on the surface one plays while growing up one might prefer a surface to another. But players give equal importance, the same respect and admiration to all the majors."
 
