AHMEDABAD/PALANPUR: Within hours of chief minister   ordering a probe on Friday into the self-immolation bid by 65-year-old Bhanubhai   in   a day ago, the   rights activist succumbed at a private hospital in Ahmedabad. Vankar had set himself ablaze over alleged delay in allotment of land to Dalit families.

 Family members of Vankar confirmed that he had succumbed to injuries around 10pm on Friday. The Dalit community has announced to block the   highway on Saturday if culprits responsible for Vankar’s death are not brought to book.
 
 
 Meanwhile, the state government in a statement said that probe into the incident will be headed by chief secretary  . “The government will take appropriate action after getting all the details,” Rupani had said in a statement.
 
 Vankar had immolated himself at Patan collectorate campus on Thursday to protest delay in allotment of land to Dalit families.
 
 Vankar had earlier on February 7 given a memorandum to Patan collector urging him to regularize 8.5 hectare land in question in   village in Sami taluka of Patan and also warned of self-immolation on February 15 if their demands were not met.
 
 Dudkha resident  , a landless Dalit farm labourer, had alleged that the district authorities were not allotting a piece of land to her family despite collecting Rs 22,236 in 2013 for the transfer. TNN
 
 Vankar fought for Dalit rights for 40 years
 
 However, Patan collector Anand Patel claimed that the delay in allocation was caused because Hemaben could not be contacted for verification.
 
 “The collector office had recommended to the state government that the land in question be regularized based on application by Hemaben in 2015. However, after we got the nod from government we tried to contact Hemaben, but she was not found at the address she had provided. Also, as there was no telephone number she could not be contacted,” Patel told TOI.
 
 Patel said that police have lodged an FIR in the immolation case. The probe will be headed by additional superintendent of police Siddhpur SJ Vala.
 
 Meanwhile, on Friday, over two dozen members of Dalit community were detained in Ahmedabad for blocking roads and demanding justice for Vankar. Patan town too shut down over the incident and members of Dalit rights groups staged protest rallies across the town demanding justice for Vankar and other Dalits waiting for allotment of land. The protest was led by independent MLA from Vadgam Jignesh Mewani, who also met Patan collector and submitted memorandum seeking against those responsible for the delay. Members of the Dalit community also held protest rallies Vankar’s hometown Unjha and submitted memorandum to mamlatdar there. Vankar was fighting for Dalit rights since last 40 years and has also been campaigning against superstition in the society.
 
