CHANDIGARH: With India’s top universities having high cut-off lists, pressure on the students of commerce stream is skyrocketing. Citybased teachers say the students are under pressure as commerce is the only stream in which scores matter the most.

 “Unlike science, students do not get admissions based on entrance exams. Therefore, scores matter a lot. To combat this and get admission to one of the top universities, the students need to set the bar quite high,” they said. Two main papers — commerce and economics – are scheduled for March 12 and March 19, respectively.
 
  
  
 
 “In commerce, it’s hard to predict the exam paper. There are 15 chapters in total and there is no threshold of judging the importance of topics on the basis of weightage,” according to  , who teaches commerce in  .
 
 “The students can lay more stress on the topics like marketing. Writing points using acronyms and making notes by using relatable and technical terms can give a much-needed push to the learning process. The students must learn to manage time by dividing the syllabus wisely,” she added.
 
 Garima said that solving last 10 years’ exam papers would give more clarity. “The students must use the ‘Pomodoro Technique’ as this could help in increasing concentration level and efficiency,” she said. For economics, the citybased teachers said all chapters are equally important. However, focusing on the pattern of previous question papers is equally important.
 
 “The paper has two sections — A and B. Section A is of 20 marks and comprises questions from the entire syllabus. Section B is of 60 marks and has 8 questions. In this section, the students are asked to attempt five questions of 12 marks each,” said  , economics teacher of St Xavier’s School.
 
 “Expect a question solely from cost, revenue and market in micro. Macro-economics may carry one question each on determination of income and employment; problem of excess/deficient demand; money and banking; foreign exchange rate; fiscal policy; government budget and national income unit,”   added.
 
