SHIMLA: On the issue of deteriorating law and order situation in  , Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government has come under attack from its student wing   (ABVP). While protesting in Shimla against the murder of a 20-year-old girl in Kotla area of Kangra district, ABVP activists alleged that state government for last around two months is busy in transfers while nothing has been done to improve law and order situation.

 While in opposition BJP had made deteriorating law and order situation under Congress regime a major issue especially after the gangrape and murder of a minor girl in Kotkhai area of Shimla district in July last year. BJP had promised to ensure the safety of women and girls on coming to power and to fix the responsibility of police officials.
 
 Now the murder of a girl in Kotla area of Kangra district whose body was recovered from a forest area on Saturday has left the ABVP activists fuming and on Sunday they held protest demonstration in Shimla against the police and state government.
 
 ABVP’s state joint secretary Yog Raj Dogra said that girl was missing since February 5 and family members same day lodged a police complaint about her being missing. Questioning the lackadaisical action of police on the incident, Dogra said that for five days police could not even get her call details. He alleged that non action of police resulted into the death of girl.
 
 He demanded that entire staff of concerned police station should be suspended and all the accused involved in the crime should be arrested. He said that inaction of police has once again ashamed the state. “Had they acted swiftly, the girl could have been saved,” he said.
 
 ABVP’s campus secretary (HPU)   said that earlier law and order was in bad shape under previous Congress regime that resulted into Kotkhai like incident in July last year. He said that but after the formation of new government there is no improvement in situation and Kotla incident is its proof.
 
 He said that for last around two months, state government is busy in transfers. He said what police administration is doing when it has failed to save the life of a girl. He said that neither state government nor police is taking effective steps for the safety of women and girls. He said that ABVP will submit a memorandum to Union Home Minister   on the issue.
 
 
