Kanyakumari: The Kanyakumari district police registered a case against four MLAs of the DMK and Congress for allegedly rioting, harassing women, manhandling government employees, criminal intimidation and damaging public property.

 Accusing officials of indulging in irregularities and showing favour to the ruling party in the first phase of the cooperative society elections in the district, Congress MLAs J G Prince (Colachel), Rajesh Kumar (Killiyoor) and S Vijayadharani (Vilavancode) and DMK MLAs T Mano Thangaraj (Padmanabhapuram), N Suresh Rajan (Nagercoil) and S Austin (Kanyakumari) barged into the office of the joint registrar (JR) of cooperatives at the district collectorate and picked up an argument with him.
 
 The sequence of events which began around 10.45am continued till 8pm. Videos showing the unruly behaviour of some of the MLAs who hurled abusive words at joint registrar P Nadukkattu Raja and the unruly scene created by the supporters of the legislators were widely shared on social media platforms. Subash, an office assistant, was injured in the attack and admitted to the government hospital.
 
 Based on a complaint lodged by the joint registrar, the Nesamony Nagar police registered a case against MLAs Prince, Suresh Rajan, Mano Thangaraj and Rajesh Kumar and others under Sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 294(b) (using abusive language), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharging duty) and 506(i) (criminal intimidation) of the IPC.
 
 They were also booked under Section 4(i) of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Women Harassment Act for using abusive words and harassing women staff and under Section 3(i) of the Tamil Nadu Prevention of Public Property Damages and Loss Act for allegedly damaging properties in the office of the joint registrar.
 
 A senior police officer said there were procedures to conduct inquiry with MLAs as they are elected representative. “Inquiries will be conducted with the accused people by adhering to the norms. Appropriate action will be taken,” he added. Tamil Nadu Government Employees Association members staged a demonstration on the district collectorate premises demanding the arrest of the accused.
 
 
