KOLKATA: The officer-in-charge of Shyampur police station in Howrah, Suman Das (44), who was critically injured in a mob attack, was discharged from the hospital after almost two months on Wednesday. Though doctors said he would need another two to three months before he can go back to work, the cop with a never-say-dieattitude wants to resume duty at the earliest.

  
  
 
 Das was attacked by a mob in the wee hours of January 6, when his team was looking for a wanted criminal on court orders. “The attack neither killed me, nor my spirit. I’m a cop and such incidents won’t deter me from taking criminals on in future. Give me two weeks and I’ll be back to donning my uniform,” Das told TOI hours before being discharged.
 
 Hit by iron rod and other sharp weapons, Das suffered a massive head injury. Initially he was taken to Belle Vue Clinic and shifted to   (INK) on January 10. “He suffered a brain injury. His skull was fractured and the brain fluid was leaking. But we were positive. Also, the man’s fighting spirit helped a lot in the treatment process,” said INK chairman  .
 
 After the attack, Das went in coma for 15 days and required ventilation support as his entire life side was paralysed. Two surgeries were conducted after doctors stabilised his condition. “The assaults’ impact damaged the brain stem rendering him comatose for almost two weeks. Thankfully, we salvaged him. He still has problem with vision, speech and walking, Thus, he needs to undergo therapy at home,” said Dr  , who led the team of neurosurgeons which operated on Das.
 
 Das joined the police force in 2,000 and was posted in Shyampur police station for the last three years. Chief minister   had called up the OC’s wife   to assure all assistance and the best medical services. “We were told by the other hospital the chances of my husband pulling off was just 10% to 15%. But I was optimistic he would make it. We’re thankful to the CM, INK and all police officers who stood by us,” wife Sumita told TOI.
 
 Das’s left hand and legs are still weak. With physiotherapy and other rehabilitation programmes, he would start walking gradually. “Besides head injury, Das developed severe chest infection which was taken care of by intensivists. We’re hopeful he would be able to go back to work in another two to three months,” said INK CEO John Vasiloudis.
 
