LUCKNOW: After   issued a notice to   chairperson,  , for calling madrassas terrorists producing centres, the Islamic Madrassa Modernisation Teachers's Association (IMMTA) has also issued a notice to him.

 The association has accused Rizvi of making baseless allegations against madrassa students and teachers bringing disrepute to them under a planned conspiracy. Giving a 15 days' notice to the chairperson, the association has demanded Rs 2 lakh per teacher be paid as damages.
 
 The association's national president,  , has sent the notice on behalf of the 25,550 madrassa teachers registered under the Central government's Scheme to Provide Quality Education in Madrassas (SPQEM). Ahmad along with group of madrassa teachers also handed over a copy of the notice to the district administration in Bahraich and to the state minority welfare department in Lucknow through post. “Waseem Rizvi has insulted madrassa teachers, the minority community students and also the staff of the minority welfare department. There are 8,554 madrassas in UP registered under SPQEM where 25,550 teachers are employed. Of these, 20% are Hindus and 80% of the officials in the minority welfare department in office and on ground are also from the majority community. Rizvi has thus insulted all,” said IMMTA's national president, Ajaz Ahmad. The association has claimed that Rizvi has made the statements under a planned conspiracy to destroy madrassa system of education, to take away jobs of the teachers and education opportunity of minority community. “He has made a mockery of the Central government's scheme of madrassa modernisation by making such false allegations of radicalising students. He should pay Rs 2 lakh per teacher to the 25,550 teachers in UP under SPQEM as damages in 15 days, failing which we will move court,” he said.
 
 Earlier on January 12, Jamiat   had sent a similar defamation notice to Rizvi demanding Rs 20 crore as damages and a written apology. It all started after Rizvi wrote a letter to the PM and UP chief minister asking for madrassas to be shut as they radicalised Indian Muslims instead of producing civil servants, engineers and doctors. Rizvi also claimed that his remarks had attracted a threat call allegedly made by an aide of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim.
 
 
