NEW DELHI: Delhi, crime branch cops questioned a principal and six teachers of three public schools in outer Delhi on Saturday on suspicion of their involvement in circulating the leaked   question papers on WhatsApp groups.

 
 The principal and two of the teachers, who work in a Bawana school, were being quizzed till late at night after following claims that they might have opened the Class 12 Economics paper in presence of some students in the exam hall of their school at 8am, 75 minutes before the exam began on March 26.
 
 A CBSE employee based in Sonepat is also under the police scanner since he was the custodian of the two sets of papers. The area code on the leaked ones matched those of the place under his charge. 
 
 Meanwhile, Delhi cops have received a reply from Google after they had approached the search engine for help in identifying the IP addresses of a person who had warned CBSE about the leak before the Maths exam was held. The person, who claims to be the parent of a Class 10 student, had even mailed the Board a scanned copy of the question paper.
 
 The parent Dev Narayan has been contacted by Delhi Police and has agreed to join the probe. He told cops that he is part of a WhatsApp group the administrator of which was a man running a tuition centre. Cops are verifying Narayan’s claims.
 
 After questioning some CBSE officials on Friday evening, officers from the crime branch suspect that a teacher from one of the outer Delhi schools might have managed to procure the papers from a custodian and intended to circulate it among a handful of students. One of the students meanwhile posted it on a WhatsApp group. Cops did not find any money trail into the leak so far.
 
 Police also suspect a teacher could have been a whistleblower, who after alerting the CBSE before the exams had started sending the copies of the question papers through courier. Police officers say their focus now is on identifying the source from which the papers were leaked. 
 
 Two ACPs from the cyber crime unit have been roped into the SIT for the probe. Till Saturday, cops questioned a total of 53 students and have found six more WhatsApp group which figured in trail of transmission of papers. 
 
 Meanwhile, CBSE students from different schools staged a protest outside the Board’s office in Preet Vihar and blocked a road in the area on Saturday evening protesting against the retests.
 
 
 
 
