COIMBATORE: The city corporation has decided to upgrade   dump yard using a three-pronged approach.

 Switzerland-based   International Council for Local Environmental Initiatives (  ), which conducted a study on it, will submit its report next month, civic body officials said. “We will try to increase the capacity by setting up a refuse-derived fuel plant that will process 600 tonnes of waste. More than 24 lakh tonnes of old waste is strewn across the dump yard. That will be collected and capped scientifically. A park will be set up after the process. Also, the existing vermicompost plant with a capacity of 100 tonnes will be upgraded to accommodate another 100 tonnes,” a corporation official said.
 
 According to   of ICLEI, volunteers have been assessing the waste dumped at the yard. They have also studied the landscape, terrain and other factors. “Based on the report, we will submit the various suggestions that could be taken up. Currently of the 900 tonnes, 500 tonnes is processed at a plant. The vermicompost plant is of just 100tonnes capacity. Keeping the future expansion of the city in mind, the dump yard needs to be renovated and upgraded,” he said. The capacity of the bio-methanisation plant at the dump yard should also be increased, he told TOI.
 
 Civic body officials said that once the refuse-derived fuel plant is set up, non-recyclable waste will be shredded and incinerated after which the fuel will be used to generate electricity. “This plant will not just speed up the process, but also reduce pollution. We have also laid foundation stone to set up biomethanisation plant at the uzhavar santhai in R S Puram. We will ensure community management of waste is upgraded so that only segregated waste reaches the dump yard,” a senior corporation official said.
 
 As much as 400 tonnes of dry waste is collected a week and a revenue of Rs 10 lakh is generated, which is paid to the sanitary workers as incentives, said a corporation official. “We collect only dry waste on Wednesdays. We plan to expand this to all 100 wards and ensure that segregation of waste is implemented in all homes,” he said.
 
 Another detailed report will be prepared for the management of old waste, which is posing a huge problem for the civic body as constant fires have marred its reputation. “We have an ambitious plan to set up parks and landscape the entire dump yard. We will take up the work based on the availability of funds,” said an official.
 
 
