The   verdict on the   river water sharing mechanism, if implemented in letter and in spirit, may put an end to the disparity in sharing the available river water. It need not necessarily ensure adequate water for drinking and irrigation to Karnataka,  , Kerala and Puducherry.

 The Cauvery being a water deficit river, lends itself to being used and misused as fodder by political parties. Those who are concerned about the well-being of farmers and development of the state should shed politics and work towards making not merely the Cauvery, but all south Indian rivers water surplus to mitigate the plight of farmers starting from Maharashtra, up till Kerala, said A C Kamaraj, a former chief engineer of Tamil Nadu PWD and chairman of  , an NGO working on creating water grids across the country.
 
 Interlinking south Indian rivers and diverting into them a portion of the Godavari’s run-off (that gets wasted into sea) may be the only way to increase the flow in all rivers. “Ensuring water availability is equally important as putting in a mechanism for equitable water sharing. Union shipping and water resources minister Nitin Gadkari has been pushing states for interlinking south Indian rivers. States should come forward and support it,” said K Jeyachandran, a UK-based water expert.
 
 The   has estimated that the run-off from peninsular rivers is more than 8,600 thousand million cubic feet (tmcft) a year. Just by tapping that, about 3.4 crore hectares of additional land can be cultivated in southern states.
 
 Gadkari has suggested that 605 tmcft of water can be harvested from the Godavari to irrigate vast stretches of south India. “It is a conservative estimate. The annual runoff in the Godavari is 3,000 to 4,000 tmcft. If a sizeable portion of that can be diverted, dry belts in Maharashtra, Goa, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala will benefit. Add to that run-offs in Karnataka and Kerala, and south India will become water surplus,” said Kamaraj.
 
 S Janakarajan, professorial consultant at the  , has a different take on water management. “Just by tapping and storing the northeast monsoon rainfall in the Cauvery delta districts, Tamil Nadu can save about 50tmcft-60 tmcft of run-off. During floods, the Cauvery and its tributaries waste about 400tmcft-500 tmcft of water. Water infrastructure like canals, ponds and lakes should be desilted and several thousand new water enclaves should be created to store rain water in the delta districts,” he said.
 
 By upgrading water infrastructure, Tamil Nadu can irrigate about 4,000 hectares of land – instead of the present 2,000 hectares – with just one tmc ft of water, he said.
 
 
