  : The   learning scheme is likely to be introduced in some more   (KVs) in the state from the next academic session. At present, the system is running only in one school - KV Mancheswar, Bhubaneswar. The   (KVS) introduced the scheme on a pilot basis in the school this year. 

 Under the scheme, students of Class VII and VIII are using tablets for science and mathematics subjects. Almost all activities like accessing reading materials to submitting their assignments are being done online by using the tablets. 
 
 "We are expecting the scheme will be rolled out in at least five more KVs, including Berhampur, in the state from the next academic year. We are planning to submit a proposal in this regard to the KVS soon," said deputy commissioner, KVS Bhubaneswar region, ALV Jaganadha   here on Friday. The region has 61 KVs. 
 
 Apart from accessing the textbooks online through ePathshala, which provides digital textbooks and resource materials of the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT), he said, the students are enhancing their learning experience through animations and videos. 
 
 Around 160 students of both classes of the school in Bhubaneswar have been provided   free of cost by the KVS, he said. Digital learning is a part of the Centre's flagship programme Digital India, an official source said. 
 
 Deputy commissoner of KVS, Bhubaneswar, was here to attend the bright students camp, which is going on at KV Berhampur and KV   and to inaugurate the Atal Tinkering Labrotary (ATL) at KV Berhampur. The ATL is a state-of-the-art laboratory equipped with robotic kit and other sophisticated electronic gadgets. 
 
 The government had sanctioned ATL for three KVs in the region last year. The KVs are in Berhampur, Balasore and Bhubaneswar.
 
 The ATL is under the Niti Aayog's programme of Atal Innovation Mission (AIM). It aims at popularizing science and fostering creativity and imagination, the source said. 
 
 "We expect at least more 15 KVs in the region will be included under the AIM in next academic seassion," Rao said.
 
 Out of the project cost of Rs 20, KV Berhampur has received Rs 12 lakh for the establishment of ATL in the first phase, said principal Ashok Kumar Mishra. The rest Rs 8 lakh will be received afterwards (Rs 2 lakh per year for four years), he said. 
 
 
