PUNE: The civic body may stop road concreting works till the 24x7 water supply project is complete.

 Several organizations had urged the municipal commissioner to stop granting permission to lay new cement concrete roads and water pipelines in the city. The demand came a day after Pune Municipal Corporation’s standing committee approved the 24x7 tenders.
 
  had approached the commissioner’s office with demands pertaining to the implementation of the water supply project. The organisation said that roads were expected to be dug up across the city t o lay new pipelines under the project and it was not advisable to give permission to lay new cement roads which are hard to break. It reasoned that concreting roads and digging them for the water supply project was a waste of money.
 
  
  
 “We are working on the demands given by the citizens’ groups. Action will be taken to avoid construction of concrete roads,”  , leader of house in PMC, said.
 
 Discussions were carried out with the standing committee. However, any decision will reflect in the next fiscal’s budget. Works allotted in this financial year are likely to continue.
 
 Of the 2,400km road network across the city, nearly 400km are concrete roads. Nearly 1,700 km will be dug up for the water supply project to lay pipeline lines and to fit water meters. This works is expected to start soon from five areas including Sahakarnagar, Katraj and Yerawada, where a pilot project will be carried out.
 
 Civic officials said they are taking the likely damages into consideration and planning the digging accordingly. “We are coordinating with the water department to manage our road construction activity. Getting the no-objection certificate from them is a must to avoid unnecessary construction of roads,”  , head of PMC’s road wing, told TOI.
 
 The civic body, in August 2013, decided to concrete 58 roads in the city including FC and JM roads, after concreting the Airport, Sinhagad, Solapur roads and a stretch of the Pune-Mumbai highway. In June 2014, citizens demanded a third-party audit of the concreting since it caused waterlogging during the monsoon. Many said the height of concrete roads was above the plinths of their houses.
 
