NAGPUR: The social science examination on Monday left students on cloud nine as the paper turned out to be a piece of cake. It was the second last paper of ongoing SSC examination and an easy question paper doubled students’ excitement.

 The experts too were pleased and believed that the passing percentage will surely to shoot up. Jayshri  , social science teacher at  , said, “There was nothing unexpected in today’s paper and the pattern was also maintained. It was set according to the aptitude of an average student and anyone with a decent amount of study of the subject will score good. It was an added advantage that all the questions were asked from the textbook.”
 
 The student fraternity looked joyous as they glided through the exam smoothly.  , a std X student, said, “It was the easiest paper of this series with a very simple political science part. I had studied all the chapters well and I hope to score good marks.”
 
 Pratham Kumbhare said, “Our school prelims prepared us a lot for board exams as most of the questions matched the paper today. Cold war and Russian Revolution were a bit lengthy, but I managed well.”
 
 Attending school regularly and taking prelims seriously helps students in preparing for board examination. “Apart from self-study, students need to be vigilant in the class as maximum of the concepts get cleared there itself. If your basics are strong, MCQs and short answer questions naturally become a cakewalk,” Sastri added. 
 
 Student   said, “It was very easy for me as I studied well during prelims and test series. We were prepared for this paper and hope to score good marks.” His batchmate,   said, “The paper was easy since all the questions were from the syllabus. Solving last years’ papers helped me a lot.”
 
  said, “Even though I was worried that I would face time crunch, the paper made it really easy for me to finish off everything on time. I am quite happy with my performance.”
 
 Devanshu Pundlik said, “It was no challenge for me as I had prepared well by solving last years’ question papers. Explaining Cold War took me some time as it had to be written in brief, but I managed to stay on par with time.”
 
 Paper rating
 
 Toughness: Easy
 
 Questions’ relevance: Straightforward
 
 Length: Appropriate
 
 
