RAJKOT: The state government has decided to procure additional 4 lakh metric tonne   at minimum support price ( ). But this is hardly any succour for farmers who are under severe distress due to the glut.

 The principal procuring agency National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India LTD (NAFED) has requested the government to procure groundnut only from the   centres. Nafed has also suggested that all other centres be closed down. 
 
 It has assigned the procurement work to Gujarat State Co-operative Marketing Federation Ltd (Gujcomasol) and Gujarat State Co-operative Cotton Federation Limited (Gujcot). Both these agencies have mandated their respective cooperative societies at village level to set up the procurement centres near the villages so that farmers don’t have to travel far to sell their produce.
 
 As a result of this, daily procurement will reduce and if government agrees to Nafed’s request, 100 centres in Saurashtra will be shut down.
 
 Nafed had received several complaints of malpractice by traders in procurement. Also, sub-standard stock of groundnuts mixed with stones and soil was found in some bags. Moreover, all warehouses in Saurashtra are full and at many places, groundnut stock is lying outside the centres. 
 
 V R Patel, chairman of Nafed, said, “In order to control malpractices and sort out the warehouse problem, we have requested the government to procure groundnut from only APMC centres.” 
 
 Earlier, Nafed had said that it would stop procuring groundnut at MSP after meeting the target of 8 lakh tonne.
 
 Nafed hires private warehouses to stock the groundnut procured at MSP. Currently, the entire stock is sent to Gandhidham in Kutch after procurement as there is no space available in Saurashtra.
 
 If the centres are closed, farmers will have to travel long distances to sell their produce. Moreover, there are just 40 APMC centres in Saurashtra. 
 
 “The government has been forced to increase the procurement limit by 4 lakh tonne under political pressure. The procurement will be reduced if the centres are closed,” said a senior cooperative leader.
 
 Jogindrasinh Jadeja, a groundnut farmer near  , said, “Shutting down the centres at village levels will create a big problem for farmers. A farmer’s turn comes after three months of registration. When the number of centres are reduced, there will be no clarity as to when the farmers’ turn will come. APMC will give more excuses like scarcity of bags and space of storage.” 
 
 Gujarat has seen a record high groundnut production at 32 lakh metric tonne.
 
 
