I know very little English… I am trying to learn.”

 Just the way he adapted to his new role as a striker in FC Goa   team, Ferran Corominas, the hottest player in Indian football at the moment, has adapted not just to the language but to the country as well. His first trip to India—“I always wanted to visit the country”—was a first for The Times of India’s Goa edition too: Guest Editor, Sports, for the day. 
 
 A quick tour of the TOI office and the Spanish striker, Corominas or   as he is popularly called, was ready to pick stories, take questions, pose for photographs and give autographs. But not before he handed over each of the women on the newsroom a bunch of roses and posed for a photo with each of them. After all, it was Women’s Day.
 
 “There is so much that goes into bringing out a paper…so many people are involved. When we read the newspaper, we never realise that so much effort is put into it.” We gave him the analogy of a football team, where players plan, coordinate and execute with the help of the support staff. He smiled.
 
 Over the next 90 minutes, Coro spoke at length with TOI journalists without showing the slightest strain, just the way he does scoring goals for his team in the Indian Super League. 
 
 “I would like to stay here for the next season. I am happy here, my family is happy,” Coro said to one of our questions on whether he plans to continue with   for the next season. 
 
 As he sat down to pick his choice of stories from the news list for the day, he was forthright. “I hope I don’t have to go through the political stuff and pick those stories. That’s for you to decide. I better stick with sports,” Coro, who has played against Lionel Messi, Cristiano Ronaldo and Neymar, said with a smile.
 
 “Ronaldo is all hard work. Messi is magic,” he told us and gave us a peek into Neymar’s move to PSG from Barcelona. “I don’t think he has done well to move away from Barcelona. But if his ultimate aim is to move to Real Madrid, then may be this was the step he had to take.”
 
 His choice of the stories he wanted to see in print the next morning was clear as his skills on the field. “I prefer stories that have an impact.” And the first story he picked for the day was Goa winning the silver and bronze medal at the National Beach Volleyball Championship in Chennai.
 
 “Goa, from what I hear, are minnows in the sport, so such an achievement needs to be highlighted. Also, the sport does not get as much coverage as other popular sports,” he reasoned, as those around him nodded in agreement.
 
 The final day drama in the I-League was obviously uppermost on his mind. He stopped a while to check the scores when he went to the sports desk and saw live coverage on television. Coverage of the   also found special mention.
 
 For the 90 minutes that he spent in the newsroom, he was keen to learn. He asked questions through Ravi Puskur, the interpreter and head of first team operations at FC Goa. Having team manager Ander Ruiz, fluent in both languages, also helped.
 
 His sense of humour was as sharp as his ability in front of the goal. When we tried to prod if he, along with many others in the team, were worried that Laxmikant Kattimani would be fielded under the horizontal bar more out of compulsion rather than choice since Naveen Kumar was suspended, Coro thought for a while before responding, “Do you want me to criticise Katti?” 
 
 Nobody wanted that. Coro rallied behind the beleaguered goalkeeper, explaining how serious he was in training. 
 
 Hidden inside the lethal striker was also a wit that we realised when we quizzed him about his role in the Tiki Taka video. Asked if dancing came naturally to him, just like goal-scoring, Coro countered: “If I say yes, will you ask me to dance in front of everyone?”
 
 For over a minute, nobody could stop laughing. Dancing, as it turned out, is among Coro’s hobbies. 
 
 For most part, he was as comfortable in a newsroom as he is on the football field. The only moment he was clueless was when his eyes fell on something that he’d not seen before: The carrom board. It took some explanation from the team manager, and some moves to demonstrate how the game is played. 
 
 His job as a guest editor done, Coro was ready to be back on the field, to train for the first leg of the semi-final against Chennaiyin FC on Saturday. And just as he was about to leave, we had to have that group photo. Humble, the smile never leaving his lips, Coro obliged. As we led him to his car and wished him the best for his semi-final match, we let him on to our secret that he is the first guest editor that TOI has hosted in Goa. “I am privileged. Thank you so much,” he smiled.
 
 
