MYSURU: Although more than seven decades have passed since India attained Independence, caste politics continues to play a dominant role in the country’s political discourse. At a time when the debate around caste has assumed a feverish pitch, a look at the legacy of   and its rejection of politics along community lines serves as a panacea.

 Arguably the constituency’s most illustrious representative was former chief minister  , who was elected from Hunsur a whopping six times. That the Urs community, to which the former CM belonged, numbers less than 100 in the segment vindicates the observation that Hunsur has managed to stay above caste politics. A champion of the backward classes and the downtrodden, Urs represented Hunsur for 28 years. His daughter Chandraprabha Urs carried his legacy forward, winning the seat twice in the 1980s.
 
 The incumbent MLA HP Manjunath, of the  , is a member of the Arya Vaishya community, which boasts all of 468 voters in Hunsur, which attests to the segment’s enduring legacy of transcending fault lines. Having won the elections in 2008 and ‘13, Manjunath is aiming for a hat-trick this year.
 
 Home to a diverse population, with people from Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan having settled here, Hunsur is considered a microcosm of the entire country. While Vokkaligas are the numerically dominant community in the constituency, with 50,000 voters, Dalits, Nayakas and Adivasi communities cumulatively account for nearly 75,000 voters. There are around 14,000 Lingayat and Muslim voters each.
 
 The muted gurgle of the Lakshama Theertha River that flows in the middle of this small, unassuming town lying on the road to Kodagu, is among the quintessential aspects of Hunsur, which is also famous for the teak variety that bears its name.
 
 Director of the Hunsur-based NGO, Development Through Education (DEED) S Srikanth recalled the charisma of Devaraj Urs – a leader accepted by people cutting across lines of caste and religion. “Urs too loved people from all communities. The voters also trust the incumbent MLA, who has been elected twice, but there is the anti-incumbency factor he will have to contend with this time round,” Srikanth said.
 
 The JD(S), meanwhile has fielded former Congress member Adagoor H Vishwanath. The JD(S) had won the seat in 2004, before ceding the seat to the Congress in 2008. Vishwanath and JD(S) are banking on votes from the Kuruba and Vokkaliga communities to swing the tide in their favour. However, what remains to be seen is whether the electorate of Hunsur, who have historically opted for candidates from communities that are not dominant.
 
 People in the town appear to be dissatisfied with the performance of incumbent MLA Manjunath, who they believe has failed to fulfill his promises. Moreover, the people are looking to leaders who they believe will maintain communal harmony.
 
 However, Manjunath is confident of coasting to a win on the tide of developmental projects he has initiated in the constituency. Manjunath’s brother HP Srinath said that infrastructure projects worth Rs 1,400 crore had been taken up. “My brother will emerge victorious by a larger margin than the previous time,” said Srinath.
 
 Devaraj, daughter Chandraprabha represented segment eight times
 
 In 1962, D Devaraj Urs was elected unopposed. Urs and his daughter, Chandraprabha Urs have represented Hunsur in the assembly for eight terms. Interestingly, the incumbent MLA Manjunath’s father HN Premkumar too contested the election from Hunsur on a Congress ticket twice – in 1983 and ’88, but was not successful. The constituency has witnessed three by-elections.
 
 
