AHMEDABAD: Richa Singh Choudhary, 32, wakes up each morning to go check on her babies, she attends to each of her eight children, one after the other – wakes them up with hugs and kisses and takes them for a walk, and gets to preparing their food and making their beds, as wagging tails and smiling faces follow her all over the place. For her, motherhood means parenting Hazel, a golden retriever, Blue, Rafa and Baghira – three Labradors, Duster – a beagle, Tonka – a French Mastiff, Chloe – a Saint Bernard and Zara – a Rottweiler. 

 “We had no one when we moved to this city, a few years ago and now, we’re a family of 10, me, my husband and our eight babies,” said Choudhary. “Not having our own human children was a choice we both mutually made,” she added.
 
 ‘With eight of my cute canine kids all over the place, I never felt like I’m missing on motherhood. I nurture them and play and travel with them,” said Choudhary.
 
 There is absolutely no strict definition of motherhood and a mother’s love, whether it is to one’s own child, an adopted one or even a pet who is more than a child — a family member for many. Many new-age women have made a conscious choice of not having ‘human’ kids and instead, are happy being mothers or parents to pretty paws.
 
 
 
 “Junior – a cocker spaniel, and Bubbles – a beagle, mean the world to me. Ever since they came into my life, it has changed for the better. When Junior came home, I used to wake up in the middle of the night to check whether he is sleeping well and comfortably, just what I would have done if I had a human child,” said Dhara Thakore, 32, who takes her ‘babies’ on road trips and enjoys life with them.
 
 
 
 Canines are not just mere pets but an integral part of the lives of their mothers, who don’t leave a single stone unturned to take care of them. “When Pluto was young, he used to chew anything random he laid his jaws on, and once he swallowed a piece of thermocol. I just didn’t know what to do and felt as helpless as a mother would, when her child faces a health condition she has no clue about,” said  , from Gandhidham who works as a professional. “The other day when I was running a high fever, I was amazed to see that Pluto and Mars, who would otherwise bring the house down with their mischief, were sitting quietly by the bedside all day,” she said.
 
 
 
 Many young women have made a conscious choice to adopt dogs and not have kids. Married or single – most are socially criticized for going against the norm. Meghna Patel, 35, a lawyer, is a parent to five dogs –  , a German Shepard, Pintoo and Jugnoo – who are strays, and Bebo and Cleo – who are laboratory-rescued beagles. “You’re 35, why don’t you get married and settle down, have kids of your own – these are the most common comments I come across in social gatherings. At times it does hurt if it comes from someone close. Eventually, you learn to ignore,” Meghna said. “I’m a grown and independent woman and I don’t need kids because I have five! One of my darlings sleeps to a lullaby every single night. Two more I have nursed with baby cereal and gripe water, like a mother would do for her child. Even if I get married, the man has to accept me and my kids,” she added.
 
 
