NEW DELHI:   (MSJ) has dubbed its budgetary allocations as inadequate which would result in a squeeze on critical welfare schemes, the principal being “post-matric scholarship for Scheduled Castes”.

 
 The MSJ submitted to the finance ministry an annual plan of Rs 11,027 crore for 2018-19 but has ended up getting Rs 7,750 crore.
 
 In its submission to the parliamentary standing committee vetting the budget, MSJ said the   will be affected badly by low budgetary allocations since it was already reeling under accumulated arrears of Rs 8,600 crore till 2017-18.
 
 The ministry added that schemes of social defence focused on prevention of drug abuse and welfare of senior citizens would also be adversely impacted.
 
 According to the ministry, it had moved a proposal for additional funds to clear the arrears in the scholarship scheme but the note was pending before the Union Cabinet.
 
 In its report on “demand for grants”, the standing committee on social justice and empowerment headed by BJP MP Ramesh Bais observed, “The committee notes that the department has no choice but to move to the Cabinet for extra funds … though   have agreed to clear the pending arrears, yet the department must pursue this matter seriously so that remaining arrears are cleared once for all.”
 
 Interestingly, the parliamentary panel expressed happiness at the budgetary hike in “Post-Matric Scholarship for Economically Backward Classes” after highly insufficient allocations for two consecutive years.
 
 While Rs 10 crore were given against the demand from states of Rs 86 crore in 2017-18, it was the same story in 2016-17. Finally, the allocation for 2018-19 has been hiked to Rs 103 crore.
 
 With a keen focus on welfare schemes for students from under-privileged classes, the standing panel has criticised the states for poor implementation of “pre-matric scholarship” for children of persons engaged in unclean and hazardous occupations.
 
 Calling budgetary allocation for the “crucial scheme” as “very less” in recent years, the panel slammed the states for their indifference in identifying eligible candidates. It has exhorted the Centre to carry out a strong awareness drive through media to offset the indifference of states in implementing the scheme.
 
 Importantly, the committee stumbled upon a bizarre case where Chhattisgarh constructed hostels for “OBC boys and girls” in areas where there was no OBC population but “replete with tribals or Naxalites”.
 
 “Why the department did not ensure on its own whether the population of OBC exists there or not, is beyond committee’s comprehension,” it noted.
 
 
