CHANDIGARH: Patients coming to PGI’s emergency from  ,   and   had been prescribed   despite having no infection that required such treatment, according to a study conducted by   that was published recently in an international journal.

 
  
 
 “A study of antibiotic prescription pattern in patients referred to tertiary care center in Northern India” published in the journal, “Therapeutic Advances in Infectious Disease”, screened 517 patients, out of which 300 were prescribed antimicrobials. The study was carried out for three months in the emergency of PGI.
 
 Out of the 300 patients, 43% had no such infections, but had been put on unnecessary antibiotics in adjoining states’ hospitals. Moreover, the discharge summary of these patients did not mention the dosage and the duration of the antibiotics prescribed, the study said. Irrational usage of antibiotics results in antimicrobial resistance—where the antibiotics are unable to have effect on fighting infections.
 
 The patients were referred from Punjab (40%), Haryana (20%), Himachal Pradesh (10%) and Uttar Pradesh (5%). As many as 25% referrals were from Chandigarh. In 129 out of 300 (43.9%) patients, there was no evidence of the cause of infection. As a result, antibiotic use was considered unnecessary in these patients, the study said.
 
 The authors found that the prescriptions brought by patients to PGI were incomplete and did not tell anything about how long the patient was on antibiotics. “They are so incomplete and without adequate information. It impacts our decision making. It would help us if we know for how long the antibiotic was going on, what were the culture reports? In fact, although it was not a part of our study, we understood how important it is to send patients with proper discharge summaries, particularly so for whom antibiotics have been started,” said Dr Nusrat Shafiq, department of pharmacology, PGI, and one of the authors of the study.
 
 There is irrational usage of antibiotics as more than 65% of prescriptions were that of broad spectrum antimicrobials such as amoxicillin clavulanic acid, ceftriaxone, ciprofloxacin, clindamycin and piperacillin-tazobactam. “It indicates that very less attempt is being made to determine the focus of infection and narrow down to choosing antibiotics with restricted coverage,” said Dr Nusrat.
 
 What can be the effect of such a harsh ill abuse of antibiotics? “The balance between excess and access is not very easy. If a patient is sick, the clinical picture may not be very clear in the beginning for making a judicious decision. However, with better training one may succeed in bringing down antibiotic use at least when there is no evidence of possible infection,” said Dr Nusrat.
 
 
