Mumbai: A   barred from attending college because she wears the   (headscarf) has moved court saying she is now being prevented from appearing for repeater exams in June because of poor attendance.

 Bandra resident Fakeha Badami enrolled in the   and surgery course in  ,  , in 2016. The college, affiliated to the   (MUHS), did not allow her to attend lectures because she wears the hijab. 
 
 The ministry of AYUSH (ayurveda, yoga and naturopathy, unani, siddha and homeopathy) directed the college to resolve the issue, saying “it cannot compel a student to not wear the hijab since it is disrespect to social justice”. MUHS wrote to the state medical education and drugs department to know if there was any regulation barring Muslim students from wearing the hijab. It said she should be allowed to attend college. But the college did not budge.
 
 By the time Fakeha approached the high court the first time, in November 2017, the college exams were over.
 
 On March 12, 2018, the college denied it was not allowing her to attend lectures. It told the HC it will accommodate her in repeater lectures (which have begun). The college was directed to approach MUHS for Fakeha and seek its advice on rules and regulations. 
 
 Fakeha was allowed to attend lectures on March 19 only upon producing a copy of the HC’s order. On March 28, the college wrote to MUHS asking if Fakeha should be allowed to appear for the repeater exams in view of her attendance of “only six days”. MUHS replied on April 11, saying she “does not meet the mandatory attendance criteria”. This prompted her to approach the HC again.
 
 Fakeha’s petition said the first term began on December 27, 2016. She attended college on December 28 and to her “utter shock and dismay” all Muslim students were being “coerced” to remove the hijab. The students either stopped wearing the hijab or left the college. Fakeha’s petition states that she was harassed as continued wearing the hijab.
 
 As per her petition, her parents told the college that wearing the hijab was religious practice and Fakeha wore it even in school and junior college. “India is a constitutional and secular democracy. Denying anyone, let alone a student, the right to wear the hijab is denying her the right to practice a religion of her choice, despite such right being clearly protected by the Constitution of India as a Fundamental Right under Article 25,” the petition stated. “The college, performing a public function of imparting education, is under obligation to follow secular tenets.”
 
 The petition said Fakeha’s sister, studying bachelor of homeopathic medicine in another college, which too is an MUHS affiliate, wears the hijab, but is allowed to attend college.
 
 Fakeha’s advocate, Sariputta Sarnath, told a vacation bench of Justices Shahrukh Kathawalla and Ajay Gadkari on Monday that Fakeha was allowed to attend classes only after the HC’s March 12 order and her lack of attendance was due to the college not permitting her to attend classes. The bench asked him to serve notices to the college and other respondents and posted the hearing for Friday.
 
 
