Ludhiana: The Ludhiana Civil Hospital will follow the footprints of Jagraon Civil Hospital that has got the first prize under the Kayakalap Programme of the Union government for rejuvenating public health care facilities at the hospital on Thursday. The officials from Ludhiana civil hospital will visit Jagraon civil hospital for learning the techniques. 

 The Jagraon civil hospital has been chosen first among the sub divisional hospitals of Punjab for transformation of the hospital premises. Against all odds the hospital maintained hygiene inside the premises and even patients gave positive feedback for the hospital. The sanitation remained the main factor that worked for this hospital. Apart from Jagraon, Mukerian and Nawanshehr have also received the award in Punjab. 
 
 The civil surgeon of Jagraon hospital Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said they were attempting for this award since January 2014. He said under the programme, they were assessed at three different levels and everything was checked right from sanitation condition, patient centric services and disposal of biomedical waste, landscaping at the hospital premises and also infection control. 
 
 He revealed that they have appointed 12 sweepers who are on the job round the clock. Regarding his goal he said they are vying for National Quality Assurance certification after which they will receive Rs 5000 per bed from center government per month and there are total 50 beds in the hospital. 
 
 Meanwhile the senior medical officer of Lord Mahavira civil hospital Ludhiana Dr Geeta said they will send their doctors to Jagraon for learning the methods which were implemented by Jagraon hospital authorities so that they could also improve the condition here. She said Jagraon Civil hospital has become an inspiration for them. 
 
 Notably, the Civil Hospital, Jagraon was declared the best hospital among sub-divisional government hospitals of the state last year and state level award was given to the hospital under swachh bharat campaign for better cleanliness and health services.
 
 
