NEW DELHI: Delhi chief minister   and Union minister   on Monday submitted a joint application in Delhi's Patiala House court seeking withdrawal of a   filed by the latter.

 The apology comes just days after the 
  in connection with comments made of his involvement in the drug trade.
 
 Today's application was submitted after Kejriwal wrote a letter to Gadkari in which he regretted making defamatory remarks against the leader. Kejriwal wrote, "I made certain statements, without regard to its verifiability, which seem to have hurt you." 
 
  "I have nothing personal against you. I regret the same. Let us put the incident behind us and bring the court proceedings to a closure," he added.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also sought apology from Congress leader Kapil Sibal and his son Amit Sibal. 
 
  
  
  
 
 Meanwhile, facing flak for apologising to leaders of rival parties who had filed defamation suits against him and other AAP leaders, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said they are not interested in any "ego fight" and don't want to spend time in legal wrangling but in service of people.
 
 "If someone is hurt by our remarks, we will apologise. We will not make it a fight of ego. We are here to work for people. We have not spared time for court, we have spared time for us so that we could fight for people," Sisodia told reporters on the premises of Delhi Assembly.
 
 
 
 In 2014, the Delhi chief minister allegedly made a defamatory statement against Gadkari, following which the BJP leader filed a criminal defamation case against him.
 
 Last week, Kejriwal retracted his allegation that Bikram Singh Majithia was involved in the drug trade and apologised to the SAD leader.
 
 Kejriwal also submitted a copy of the apology letter to the court that was hearing a defamation case filed by Majithia, brother of Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal.
 
 Majithia had filed a criminal defamation case on May 20, 2016 against Kejriwal and AAP leaders Sanjay Singh (now a Rajya Sabha MP) and Ashish Khetan for falsely linking him to the drug trade and tarnishing his image. 
 
 Calling the apology a turning point in his life, Majithia said he would now withdraw the defamation case. Meanwhile, deputy CM Manish Sisodia also made a similar application, apologising to Amit Sibal.
 
 
 
 (With agency inputs)
