NEW DELHI: Bhuvneshwar Kumar’s bowling during the opening Twenty20 international against South Africa this week, which India won by 28 runs, has come in for high praise from former India captain   who believes the seam bowler’s superb use of the   was key to flummoxing South Africa’s batsmen. 

 
 
 
 In his column for TOI, Srikkanth applauded Bhuvneshwar’s career-best figures of 5/24 during Tuesday’s opening T20I and highlighted the swing bowler’s superb use of the knuckle ball. 
 
 "The key architect of India’s superb victory in the first T20 is undoubtedly  . What I like about him is his ability to deliver in two critical phases of a T20 match - the Powerplay and the death overs. Those are the times when batsmen really set themselves up to have a go at the bowlers. A glance at the scoreboard in the last T20 would indicate that the South African batsmen had taken on every Indian bowler except Bhuvneshwar, who is one of the deadliest T20 bowlers going around in world cricket at the moment. It was his effort with the ball which hampered the opposition during the chase," wrote the 58-year-old. 
 
 
 
 "What makes Bhuvi lethal? He has got a fantastic action and he can swing the ball both ways without any change in action with the new ball. And the addition of a knuckle ball makes him even more dangerous. He has quite a few different versions of the knuckle ball and can bowl it with seam-up and cross-seam. All those variations are a result of sheer hard work and practice in perfecting them. Such variations keep the batsman guessing always and he rarely gets whacked around the park."
 
 Srikkanth, who has first-hand experience of working with Bhuvneshwar at close range during the IPL - he was associated with Sunrisers Hyderabad - felt that being a proven wicket-taker was another asset. 
 
 "With Bhuvi, it's not just about curbing runs. He is a wicket-taker at different junctures of a contest as was evident in the opening game where he claimed two wickets in his first spell and then halted the progress of the South African middle order bagging three wickets in an over in the end. Picking wickets in T20s is vital as it puts the lid on the scoring rate as well," he wrote. 
 
 In Srikkanth’s view, this was the poorest South African team he has seen. "Surprisingly, I have never seen such a jaded and disoriented South African side. I think something is wrong in their selection policies. They have been found wanting in all departments. The major problem for the hosts is that two of their senior cricketers - skipper JP Duminy and David Miller - haven’t been able to contribute much to the team’s cause with the bat. In fact, it’s adding to their misery," he wrote. 
 
 “Unless the senior duo come up with a special effort, it will be difficult for South Africa to challenge Virat Kohli & Co. I also feel that their bowling attack looks way too inexperienced for this powerful Indian batting unit.”
 
 The second T20I is today at Centurion.
 
