NAGPUR: On the occasion of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Day, Continuing Medical Education (CME) event was hosted at VSPM’s  , Hingna Road. The event was organized to spread awareness about holistic approach for head and neck  .

 Bringing the focus on oral cancer, Dr Vinay  , ex-dean of Government Dental College, said, “Oral cancer accounts for 40% of all cancers detected in the region. Kharra and   are a curse to Nagpur district. However, a simple technique called self mouth mirror examination or SelfME, using one’s fingers, can help one detect pre-cancer, the early stage of cancer.” Hazare demonstrated how four fingers should be vertically placed inside one’s mouth. “Kharra, a combination of tobacco and areca nut, is a deadly combination, which can restrict the mouth’s opening. A person in the early stages of oral cancer will not be able to fully open his mouth, thus allowing space for less than four or no fingers,” he said.
 
 The technique requires a person to stand in front of a mirror. After washing hands, the person should place their two fingers and reflect the insides of their cheeks. If roughness, swelling, growth or pain is felt in any part during palpation, or examining the part, the patient has early clinical signs of cancer. The tongue should also be protruded and checked on all sides with one’s fingers.
 
 “A red patch is symbolic of  , whereas a white patch denotes Leukoplakia, both types of cancers. In my 20 years of profession, I have also come across a yellow patch, Flavoplakia. Flavoplakia is explained as the yellow stage of oral mucosa. It is a new type of oral pre-cancer which turns into cancer in 75% cases, and is generally caused by tobacco,” he adds.
 
 SelfME was introduced over 20 years ago by basic dental research department of Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai, says Hazarey. “It was used for a few villages in Kerela. In Maharashtra, we implemented it for the first time in 2016,” he said.
 
 In October 2016, VSPM Dental College and NKP Salve Medical College, along with deputy civil surgeon, Nagpur, conducted a ‘cancer-free constituency campaign’ headed by MLA Ashish Deshmukh. About two lakh rural citizens were screened by Asha workers and dental professionals, and were taught self-mouth mirror examination. Of these, 10 cases of early cancer were detected and treated at NKP Salve college by Dr  .
 
 The CME was organized by department of oral and maxillofacial surgery in collaboration with Central India Academy of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery (CIAOMS) and   (AOI) Vidarbha chapter.
 
 
