GURUGRAM: On Day 14 of their strike, Gurugram’s sanitation workers submitted a memorandum for the chief minister to the sub-divisional magistrate, reiterating their demands for equal wages for equal work, and regularising services of contractual workers. 

 “We will continue our strike unless the chief minister calls us for a meeting and accepts our demands,” said Ram Singh, vice-president, Nagar Palika Karamchari Sangh, Gurugram shakha (unit). 
 
 The strike, which is under way at the old MCG office, has received support from different quarters, including some political parties. 
 
  leader Ashok Tanwar on Monday promised to join the agitating workers in a proposed hunger strike, while Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers put up posters of BJP leaders, including PWD minister Rao Narbir Singh, Gurugram MP Rao Inderjit Singh,Gurugram MLA Umesh Aggarwal and chief minister  , on garbage heaps on Tuesday. “Even after two weeks of the strike, the government has not lent an ear to the problems of sanitation workers. It is time for the government to wake up and address their issues,” said Mahesh   of AAP. 
 
 Meanwhile, some allegations have been levelled against the striking workers, including that they are threatening and beating up those workers who do not want to join them in the strike, stopping them from picking up garbage and cleaning streets.
 
 According to the resident’s welfare associations and sources within the municipal corporation, MCG has instructed the strike breakers to carry out work during the night to avoid facing-off the striking workers, but that hasn’t helped much either.
 
 “A few workers are coming for work and cleaning up the streets at night, but the striking workers are threatening them with dire consequences, and in some cases, beating them up,” said an RWA president, requesting anonymity.
 
 Many other residents shared similar views. “Some workers had been turning up to pick up garbage, but they received threats and have now stopped coming,” said a resident of Sector 43.
 
 MCG commissioner Yashpal Yadav had spoken about this problem told TOI on Sunday. “While we have managed to keep a major part of the city clean, problems are cropping up in the Old city, where sanitation workers who are willing to work are facing threats from the striking workers,” Yadav had said.
 
 He had added that MCG had sought help from police to provide protection to sanitation workers willing to work in these areas. Also, on Monday and Tuesday, the old corporation office had significant police cover.
 
 Union leaders, though, said the allegations were part of a concerted effort to defame them. “We’re not stopping any workers. These are just rumours to defame our group,” said Ram Singh.
 
 
