NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Sunday revealed that the CBSE   paper was leaked around 40-45 minutes before the start of the exam on March 26 by two teachers of a private school in Delhi's Bawana and was forwarded to a coaching centre tutor.

 
 Earlier in the day, the police arrested the coaching centre owner and two teachers for their involvement in circulating the leaked question papers on   groups.
 
 All the three accused have been sent to two-day police custody by Delhi's Karkardooma court.
 
  
  
 
 The two accused teachers work at a private school in Delhi and have been identified as Rishabh and Rohit. The third is a coaching center tutor who has been identified as Tauqeer.
  
 "Rishabh and Rohit opened the question papers 45 minutes before the official time of breaking the seal. They sent it to their friend Tauqueer via WhatsApp and from there, it was forwarded to the students," a crime branch official told reporters.
 
  
  
 
 A top official had earlier confirmed that the teachers leaked the papers at 9am in printed form on the day of examination.
 
 Special commissioner R P Upadhyay and joint commissioner Alok Kumar confirmed the arrests to TOI. 
  
 The arrests came hours after the crime branch officials questioned a principal and six teachers of three public schools in Delhi in connection to the case.
 
  
  
 
 The principal and two of the teachers, who work in a Bawana school, were being quizzed till late at night after following claims that they might have opened the Class 12 Economics paper in presence of some students in the exam hall of their school before the exam began on March 26.
 
 A   employee based in Sonepat is also under the police scanner since he was the custodian of the two sets of papers. The area code on the leaked ones matched those of the place under his charge.
 
 Police also suspect a teacher could have been a whistleblower, who after alerting the CBSE before the exams had started sending the copies of the question papers through courier. Police officers say their focus now is on identifying the source from which the papers were leaked.
 
 Meanwhile, Delhi cops have received a reply from   after they had approached the search engine for help in identifying the IP addresses of a person who had warned CBSE about the leak before the Maths exam was held. The person, who claims to be the parent of a Class 10 student, had even mailed the Board a scanned copy of the question paper.
 
 CBSE chairperson Karwal had received an e-mail a day before the Class 10 mathematics exam, which was held on March 28, informing her about the paper being leaked.
 
 The sender of the e-mail had stated that the mathematics paper was leaked on WhatsApp and that the exam should be cancelled.
 
 The mail also contained 12 images of the handwritten mathematics paper allegedly leaked on WhatsApp.
 
 In order to identify the sender of the e-mail, the police had written to Google, asking it to share the details of the e-mail ID.
 
 More than 60 people, including 53 students and seven teachers have been questioned till now. 
 
 Police have zeroed in on six WhatsApp groups that figured in the trail of transmission of papers and they are being probed.
 
 
 
 
