Panaji: The first meeting of the district mineral fund foundation (DMFF) committees which were constituted in November 2017, was held on March 23, after the high court of Bombay at Goa sought details about the funds collected by the DMFF and its utilization. This was disclosed by the state government in an affidavit filed this week. Earlier this month, the high court had reprimanded the government for under utilization of DMFF. The fund was set up for welfare and benefit of mining areas and its people. As told to the high court, as much as Rs 180 crore has been collected in DMFF since January 2015. The petitioner, Goa Foundation, had alleged that the government did not utilize funds in mining-affected areas even as Sonshi village in Sattari taluka was affected by mining activities, and traditional sources of water suffered. Director, directorate of mines and geology, Prasanna Acharya, in his affidavit, said the government received contribution to the DMFF with effect from January 12, 2015, from all the leaseholders.  As regards to spending of the amount lying in the fund, the decision on the same about the manner of spending and allocation of amounts has to be taken by the DMFF. “The said committees having been constituted, appropriate decisions as regards to spending it, will be taken in accordance with the Act, rules and scheme,” he added. In its March 7 order, the high court had directed chief engineer, PWD, to visit Sonshi village and report to the court on his visit after inspecting the ground realities in the village. The government also asked to make arrangement to supply adequate water to the village. The petitioner, Goa Foundation, filed an affidavit on Wednesday about the status of water supply and laying of water pipeline in the village. It informed the court that PWD had provided 25 tanks, of 500 litres each, with taps attached. But, no large tanks of 5,000 liters have been provided yet. Nodal official, Rumil Baretto, appointed by the court to oversee water supply to Sonshi, said the affidavit stated that the mines department has to provide larger tanks.