Madurai: The Santhanam committee formed by the governor to probe the Madurai Kamaraj University sex scandal will question more faculty members in the coming days. The committee has quizzed more than 50 people so far including the arrested duo — assistant professor in management studies department V Murugan and former research scholar Karuppasamy. 

 Committee chairman R Santhanam, who started the third phase of investigation on Wednesday, conducted inquiries on Thursday with V Murugan and Karuppasamy who have been lodged in the Madurai central prison. He told newsmen after the day’s inquiry that based on the information furnished by the two he would be taking statements from more assistant professors in the university. He also said that he had completed the inquiry in Aruppukkottai. 
 
 The inquiry at the prison which started at 10 am went on till 5 pm. Santhanam said that it took three hours to complete his investigations with Murugan and two-and-a-half hours with Karuppasamy separately. He said he was yet to receive any complaint from Madurai Kamaraj University Faculty Association (MUFA), which along with the university staff association staged a protest on the university premises seeking a fair investigation as soon as Nirmala Devi was arrested. 
 
 It was the second prison visit by the Santhanam committee and first after a two-week extension was given for the probe on April 30. Last week, he had conducted inquiries with assistant professor of Devanga Arts College Nirmala Devi, who allegedly tried to lure a group of girls to do sexual favours for higher officials of MKU. It was the phone conversation which went viral in social networking sites which caused an uproar leading to a police case and arrests. Meanwhile, lawyers of Murugan and Karuppasamy have moved the sessions court at Srivilliputhur seeking bail for them. The petitions were scheduled for hearing on Friday. The bail petition filed by Murugan’s advocate before Sattur judicial magistrate was rejected on Wednesday. 
 
 
