VIJAYAWADA: In a tragic incident, a software employee was declared brain dead after she met with an accident on Tuesday late night in Vijayawada. A drunk   was responsible for the accident as he hit the   ahead of him in inebriated condition

 The incident happened near   at   on Eluru Road. Chinnabattina Mytri Tejaswini (27) a native of Gunadala and presently working as a software professional at Chennai was heading home along with her brother. Her brother Michael Raviteja borrowed his neighbour’s bike for her sister’s shopping at  .
 
 After completion of shopping both have returned home on the bike. As they reached Gorila Dibba, a speeding bike hits them from behind. Tejaswini fallen down on the road with the collision and her head get hit to the median. She received severe head injury and went into unconscious state on the spot with blood coming out from her nose and ears.
 
 The biker was identified as Karari Srinivasa Rao working as armed reserve constable in Vijayawada commissionerate. He was in inebriated condition at the time of the incident. Cops noted that his rash and negligent driving was the reason for the accident.
 
 The Suryaraopet police rushed to the spot and shifted the Tejaswini and Raviteja to a private hospital in Nakkal Road for treatment. Tejaswini’s condition was critical by the time she reached hospital. She went into coma with internal bleeding in the head.
 
 On Wednesday morning, the doctors have declared her brain dead as she was not responding to the treatment. Raviteja who has been crying inconsolably since the incident told that they are hoping for a miracle and want to continue the treatment. We do not want to lose hope till the last minute he said. It was a double shock to him as his mother also died just six months ago. Raviteja demanded that the police should punish the constable Srinivasa Rao.
 
 Meanwhile, Srinivasa Rao was known for his arrogant behaviour and drinking habit. He was suspended earlier in 2015 for attending duties in drunken state and also for a clash with his superior officer. He was reinstated in duties recently but he did not mend his ways and drove the bike in inebriated condition. The city police commissioner D Gautam Sawang immediately suspended him after knowing about the incident. Suryaraopet police have arrested him after registering a case against him.
 
 
