Mumbai: The   ( ) is expected to keep key   on hold in the forthcoming announcement of the review by the   ( ). However, economists expect that the central bank would move to a more hawkish stance from the current ‘neutral’ stance in the wake of growth bottoming out.

 “We continue to expect the RBI to persist with its slightly hawkish pause in its Wednesday policy, from February, to err on the side of caution. That said, falling onion prices, after tomatoes, support our call that inflation risks are overdone,” said Indranil Sen Gupta, economist with  . According to Gupta, the MPC will “see through” the coming jump in inflation, growth and credit in mid-2018 as they are driven by base effects.
 
 Even without the central bank raising rates, lenders’ cost of funds has inched up as deposits slowed down and credit grew at a one-year high. Several large lenders, including   and Punjab National Bank have hiked their bulk deposit rates. Private lender Axis Bank has also hiked its marginal cost of lending rate ( ) following an increase in cost of funds.
 
 According to DBS Bank chief economist Taimur Baig, growth has largely bottomed out, but India has yet to benefit from the synchronised pickup in global demand. “The combination of fiscal challenges and rising oil prices would make the RBI’s policy path a tricky one this year, in our view. Given India’s high debt and fiscal deficit, it may not be prudent to be on the sideline until inflation pressure becomes excessively high which, in turn, means the balance of risk is beginning to shift toward eventual policy tightening,” he said.
 
 One of the factors that strengthen the case for a more hawkish regime has been the  , which unveiled a wider than expected fiscal deficit for the next year. But economists feel that the slippage is not enough to warrant a move to higher interest rates.
 
 Nomura economist Sonal Varma said, “While the Budget is a slight disappointment relative to our expectations, it is not a game-changer in either direction — positive or negative. We expect a prolonged pause on monetary policy, including at the upcoming February 7 meeting, although the RBI may flag upside risks to inflation.” She added that Nomura is yet to assess the impact of the government decision to hike   (MSPs) on inflation and monetary policy outlook. The government has promised to increase the MSPs for crops by 1.5 times in the Budget.
 
 Benchmark 10-year bond yields have risen more than 80 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) since July — the biggest move since the 2013 rupee crisis, due in large part to worries about a more hawkish RBI.
 
 
