NEW DELHI: One in every three street children in Delhi indulges in  , including tobacco, alcohol and cannabis.   has now put a number to this well-known problem. 

  The study has found that 29% of respondents took to drugs under peer pressure, 19% out of curiosity, 16% to experience a high and 9% to deal with various stresses and difficulties in life. 
 
  A few, about 6%, do it to brave the harsh weather or battle hunger. 
 
  The principal investigator of the study, Dr Manju Dhawan, a professor at AIIMS' National Drug Dependence Treatment Centre (NDDTC), told TOI that this is, perhaps, the first scientific study that has been done to estimate substance abuse among street children in Delhi. 
 
  
  
 
  "We conducted it on a sample of 766 street children between the ages of 7 and 18 years in collaboration with six NGOs," Dhawan said. She added that tobacco use is the most common, followed by alcohol, inhalants, cannabis, heroin, opium, pharmaceutical opioids, sedatives and injecting drug. "Children start using these drugs between 9.5 years to 13 years," the doctor said. 
 
 The NDDTC researchers also found that family members of 86% of the street children indulged in substance abuse. This explains how the children got exposed to them and shows the importance of involving family members in de-addiction programmes.
 
 Nearly 80% of the street children interviewed by the researchers said they faced problems due to drug abuse. The problems ranged from psychological, getting into fights under the effect of drug, fall or injury or accident and sexual behaviour. Sexual favours or taking money to buy substances was also reported by 12% of the children using drugs, said a researcher.
 
 "Almost half of the children said they need help in quitting. But for that the government, NGOs and society at large needs to extend a helping hand. In most cases, psychosocial changes alone may help the children quit drugs," Dhawan said.
 
 There are nearly 192 hotspots across Delhi where at least 25 street children were found during the day. 
 
 The majority of these lived in northwest Delhi (24%), central Delhi (21%) and south Delhi (16%). Common locations included parks, religious places, railway stations/bus stands and busy streets. 
 
 The proportion of female street children was higher in hotspots in south Delhi (44%), central Delhi (40%) and New Delhi (39%) based on subjective estimates, the study shows. 
 
 “The treatment or counselling for drug use is hardly available at the hotspots. No provision for any kind of intervention for substance abuse was found in west, southwest, north, northwest, east and New Delhi districts,” it added. 
 
 Sanjay Gupta, director of Childhood Enhancement Through Training and Action (CHETNA), one of the NGOs involved in the study, said children can come out of substance abuse through constructive engagement.
 
 “We need more rehabilitation centres for street children. Also, there should be heavy penalty on people who sell drugs to children,” he added.
 
