NAGPUR:   will have to forget her India Open final defeat quickly as she has to brace up for another tough challenge soon. In the absence of  , Sindhu will be spearheading the Indian contingent at the   ( ) scheduled to get underway at  , Malaysia, on Tuesday.

 
 
 The week-long biennial tournament will test the depth of the top national sides of Asia as it involves three singles and two doubles in a seperate men’s and women’s team events.
 
 Despite Badminton Association of India’s (BAI) insistence, Saina is skipping the ABC to train for the   slated to be held in Birmingham from March 14 to 18. Saina, who lost in the quarterfinals in India Open on Friday, had reached the final of Indonesia Masters in Jakarta the previous week.
 
 With Saina having pulled out, Sindhu will have to shoulder the extra responsibility in the team championship. Sources told TOI that Sindhu might have to play doubles too. Each player is allowed to play one singles and one doubles in the best-of-five-matches tie.
 
 The Indian eves have a tough draw. They have been clubbed with strong Japan and Hong Kong in Group W. The Indian men’s team has been drawn with Indonesia, the Philippines and Maldives in Group D. Top two teams from each group qualify for the quarterfinals and will be eligible to play Thomas and Uber Cup Finals, which will be held in Bangkok from May 20 to 27.
 
 In the previous edition of ABC held at the Gachibowli Stadium in Hyderabad in 2016, both the Indian teams made it to the knock-outs. While men’s team won the bronze medal by reaching the semifinals, the women were beaten in the quarters.
 
 The men’s side has been depleted by injuries to HS Prannoy and Ajay Jayaram. Both these players played an important role when India made it to the semis last time. However, the Indian team management is sounding optimistic about their chances. Chief national doubles coach Kim Tan Her is happy with the available players and confident of matching the last edition’s performance.
 
 “Our main target is to reach quarterfinals here and qualify for the forthcoming Thomas and Uber Cup. I think we have balanced teams in both men’s and women’s sections,” said Tan.
 
 The Malaysian is quite optimistic about the men’s team which has the right mixture of youth and experience.
 
 “Everyone in the men’s team is looking good. We are banking on Srikanth, Sai Praneeth and Sameer Verma in singles. The men’s doubles pair of Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty is capable of beating anyone on their day. Everybody is eager to play Tuesday’s match against the Philippines,” said Tan.
 
 “Women’s chances also look good. We have a hard game against Hong Kong on Tuesday. We coaches are going to have a meeting before the game regarding our tough opener. We have many options. Sindhu can play doubles,” said Tan.
 
 
 
 
 : 
 
 
 : China, Hong Kong, Singapore; 
 : Japan, Korea, Nepal, Kazakhstan; 
 : Chinese Taipei, Malaysia, Thailand, Myanmar; 
 : Indonesia, India, Philippines, Maldives.
 
 
 : 
 : Japan, India, Hong Kong; 
 : Korea, Chinese Taipei, Maldives; 
 : Thailand, Malaysia, Vietnam, the Philippines; 
 : China, Indonesia, Singapore.
 
 
