Long traffic jams, smog and poor air quality - these are not new for Noidawallahs. However, in the past couple of years, these factors couldn’t deter fitness enthusiasts in the city who took up cycling not just to stay healthy, but to also contribute towards keeping the environment clean. With over 20 cycling groups coming up in Noida, Greater Noida and   in the past three years, cycling has become a preferred outdoor fitness activity.

 Amit Upadhyay, founder,  , which was started with five members in 2015, says, "Three years ago, there were just three major cycling groups in NCR. But presently, there are over 20 such groups, which is heartening to see, since taking up cycling is the best you can do for your health. These groups are made by like-minded people – like we did for our club. I started with five members in 2015 and now we have over 380 avid cyclists."
 
  
  Many cyclists prefer cycling on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, or even the  
 
 
 Rajeev Kumar, co-founder of Expressway Riders that was founded in 2014, says, "From 10 people, our group has grown to 50-55 members now. We were earlier part of a bigger group, but since a lot of us live near the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, we thought of making a separate group. Noida's proximity to the Expressway is also one of the reasons people have started cycling. A lot of housing societies have also formed their own groups - it all starts through word-of-mouth. When a bunch of people in a society take up cycling and form a group, others join them. However, if you ride solo, you tend to lose interest beyond a point – something which doesn’t happen when your group members live in the same society."
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Ashish Nagpal from Cycle Sutra, one of the oldest cycling groups in NCR which was founded six years ago, says, "We now have over 6,000 members. Cycling has become the new golf now - at least among the residents of NCR's posh condominiums. It’s an advantage if you live in a housing society, where you are bound to interact with others about their interests and hobbies. That's how several cycling groups came up in Noida. We would earlier organize food rides - we would cycle to places like Chandni Chowk and popular food joints in the city - to encourage people to join our group. Now, it's not required. People join the group seeing others."
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
 
 Prateek Thakur, an avid rider, says, "Noida has a huge population of millennials who believe in doing something interesting or pursuing a hobby instead of lazing all day on a Sunday. Many of the members in my cycling group work in the corporate sector and are willing to wake up early on their weekly-offs to cycle. It's a great stress-buster for them. After working hard all week, cycling on weekends is the best way to stay fit and de-stress."
 
 
  
  
 
 Amit Aggarwal, the founder of Dilli Riders (formed in 2016), says, "Cycling is a good habit and has immense health benefits. I started with 20 people and now we have 60 riders."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Many people have started cycling because of the wide roads here. Says Kumar Gaurav from the   that was founded in 2011, "Noida's wide roads are perfect for cycling. In fact, I would prefer cycling in Noida over Delhi. I agree that there aren’t many cycling tracks in the city, but you can easily ride to the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, or even the Yamuna Expressway."
 
 
 
 Aman Puri, founder, Noida Cycling Club, says, "When we started, we were only four and now we have over 5,000 members. That says something about the interest among people in Noida. They want to stay fit and find cycling the most apt form of exercise."
 
  
  
 
 Ajay from Indirapuram Cycling Club, which was founded in 2015, says, "I joined the ICC just six months ago. Earlier, I wasn't very serious about cycling, but I have now cycled for over 400km since I became part of the group. When you have so many people in a group who are interested in cycling, you too get encouraged to pursue it seriously. I had joined the group to improve my health, and now, I won’t leave cycling."
 
 
 
 Aditya Ahuja, a resident of Sector 56 who sometimes cycles to work, says, "Cycling is the most pocket-friendly way of keeping fit and healthy. And you also get to contribute to the environment. However, a lot of people discontinued cycling because of poor visibility and smog. But aren’t we responsible for such poor air quality? So I didn’t stop cycling and would commute to my office on cycle."
 
 Seema Kaushik, another rider, adds, "More cycling groups are coming up by the day. Moreover, there’s no membership fees charged by these clubs, and you would want to be part of a group that believes in fitness."
 
  
  
 
