LUCKNOW: It was love at first sight for  , an animal rights activist, when she entered the BCom classroom in   in the year 1995. "It was here (LU) I got my better half. After finishing my schooling from Loreto Convent, I had joined BCom at LU. And on the very first day when I entered the classroom, I knew I was in love with  , with whom I tied nuptial knots," Maulekhi reminisced at an alumni felicitation event held at LU on Saturday.

 
 Not only her, it was homecoming for eminent alumnus who visited their almamater only to relived their old but golden memories.   who pursued law from LU between 2005 and 2008, while he was in service recalled, "I was stopped by the guards on the first day of the examination. They strictly told me that parents are not allowed during the examination duration. I was allowed to enter only when I showed them my identity card."
 
 On the occasion, alumnus who have made a name were felicitated by UP's deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma. While four alumnus - Prof DP Singh, Jagdish Gandhi, Justice (retd) Khem Karan and Prof Shishir Kumar Dubey - were honoured with the Lifetime Achievement Award, seven others including badminton player  , animal rights activist Gauri Maulekhi, former DGP Sulkhan Singh, UP's chief secretary  , urologist Dr Salil Tandon, Justice Vikram Nath, and   known for his work on mining were awarded the Distinguished Alumni Award.
 
 It was a flashback for Sharma too who recalled many memories of his good old days at LU. "Canteen was the real place of fun for us. We had a different style of calling for tea. When we asked the canteen guy to bring tea quickly, it meant that tea has to be served only when half the people in the canteen have left. The person who was supposed to pay the bills was called as 'Loga' bhai," Sharma said.
 
 During the function, Sharma inaugurated the online portal of LU Alumni Foundation. Alumni from different places in the world will be able to register on the portal. The move is aimed at creating a database of the alumni. Sharma also released a souvenir.
 
 
