PUNE: Among the pre-requisites necessary to ensure the smooth functioning of hospitals are qualified nurses registered with the nursing council. About 150 small- and medium-sized hospitals in the city are likely to face closure after March 31, as nurses working at these institutes have not registered with the council.

 Health officials of the   (PMC) have asked hospitals to get their nursing staff registered with the council, as directed by the state government, failing which they will not be granted renewal of the hospital’s registration — the deadline for which is March 31.
 
 Experts associated with the   (IMA) point out that registration with the state nursing council is mandatory only for qualified nurses, not for trained nurses. “Of 150 small- and medium-sized hospitals, not a single hospital has received renewal of registration. Many have been registered with the PMC for more than 10-15 years. Suddenly, they are told that their registration will not be renewed if they don’t comply,” said eye surgeon  , chairman of the   (HBI), IMA, Pune chapter.
 
 Explaining the ground situation with respect to nursing council registration, paediatrician  , chairman of the eCommunication Cell of IMA, Pune chapter, said, “Qualified nurses are not happy working in small nursing homes. We have nurses, who have been trained by us and have worked with us for 15 to 20 years. We cannot simply ask them to leave because the civic body is asking for qualified and registered nurses,” Joshi said. Instead there should be a policy in which qualified and registered nurses work in the ICU, where their expertise is essential, he added.
 
 Currently, hospitals have to abide by the norms laid down by the Bombay Nursing Home Registration Act. The Clinical Establishment Act has not yet been tabled in the state assembly. Even assuming that the act is passed in the next session, it provides a three-year period to implement the provisions, say experts. “Therefore we are wondering on what grounds new rules are being enforced during the registration process. The Bombay Nursing Home Act expects only maternity hospitals to employ midwives or registered nurses,” said senior paediatrician  , chairman of IMA, Pune’s medico-legal cell.
 
 
