COIMBATORE: Believe it or not, some localities and households are still reeling under water crisis despite it is raining cats and dogs every day in the city. Moreover, lakes and dams are on the verge of reaching full capacity with intermittent rainfall since the beginning of this month and continuous downpour in the last one week. 

 Although there is enough water with the  , leaking pipelines and faulty distribution system have rendered these localities starving for water.
 
 For instance, residents in   near Sungam Junction have not received water supply for the past 12 days. Whenever they spoke to officials, they were told that there was a pipeline leakage.   R, a resident of the area, said she collected and stored rainwater two days ago as the corporation failed to supply water. “We usually get water once every three days. And during summer, we get it once a week. So, we plan only based on that. This time, two weeks have passed, and we are yet to get water supply,” she said. 
 
 A Jeevarathinam, another resident of the area, said some households with bore wells were managing. “But others had to purchase water even for drinking purposes,” she said. She added that even in November last year, they faced a similar situation. “Pipeline leakages are becoming a huge problem,” she said.
 
 Gowri added that sometimes even corruption drive linemen and watermen, who manage the supply in localities, to stop water supply. “Only if we pay them an amount, they provide water supply. Recently, after we complained, the lineman was transferred but this is the case in every area,” she said.
 
 It is not just Shanmuga Nagar, said civic activists. Leaking pipelines have been a cause of trouble for several years now. “From the time they started digging up the roads for underground drainage pipeline and other projects, every day some area suffers water supply issue. In some locations such as Kamarajar Road, Selvapuram, Puliyakulam and  , there is a water pipeline leakage or drainage seepage almost every month,” said  , a resident of Gandhi Park.
 
 A corporation official said once the 24x7 water supply project is implemented all the old pipelines that were laid in the British-era will be replaced. 
 
 “The company,   Water, is conducting a study for a year after which they will relay the pipelines,” said an engineer. Smart water meters will also be set up to ensure water theft and other usage issues are rectified. 
 
 
