CHENNAI: In a brutal   in full   view, a history-sheeter was chased and attacked with sharp weapons by a six-member gang in Vyasarpadi on Saturday. Police suspect it to be an act of   and have detained four men in connection with the attack.

 Police said the victim Harikrishnan is a resident of Udaya Suryan Nagar in Kodungaiyur and had come to Samiyar Thottam in Vyasarpadi to meet his sister.
 
  footage captured from the scene shows Harikrishnan sporting a white T-shirt being chased by four men brandishing sharp weapons, even as traffic flowed briskly. The attackers paid no attention to members of the public, who ran helter-skelter on seeing the knife-wielding gang. 
 
 Harikrishnan is seen throwing a mobile phone at the first attacker as he flees from them. However this does not deter the gang from following him. Harikrishnan’s sister is also seen running behind the gang crying out for help. Then they disappear from view and a few seconds later, two bikes can be seen entering the area to pick up the assailants, before riding away.
 
 Police said Harikrishnan is a suspect in the murder of V Babloo alias Prabhu, 32, who was reportedly involved in several extortion, murder and attempt to murder cases, and had been detained under the Goondas Act twice. He had kidnapped a businessman   and demanded a ransom of Rs 10 lakh in August 2013.
 
 Vyasarpadi police have registered a case and formed three special teams to nab the accused. The four men detained are associates of Babloo, said an investigating officer.
 
 “It appears to be an attempt to seek vengeance for the murder of Babloo. There was already an enmity brewing between the two gangs over mamool sharing,” said a senior police officer.
 
 “We have formed special teams to investigate the attack. With the help of information given by the victim, we are making further inquiries,” said Vysarpadi inspector S Mohanraj.
 
 Harikrishnan is undergoing treatment at Stanley Medical College and Hospital where his condition is said to be critical.
 
 
