KOTA: Around 15 persons were injured after the police resorted to lathicharge to prevent a group of activists who threatened to carry out a ‘puja’ at Mandhata Balaji cenotaph (an empty tomb or monument erected in the memory of a person or a group) on Bundi’s   on Monday.

 The group, numbering over a thousand, was marching towards the disputed spot through Meera Gate Circle from   when police used force to disperse the crowd. Police detained about 10 to 12 persons, including two sadhus, who were leading the activists.
 
 Kota divisional commissioner has extended the suspension of internet services and social media till 6am on January 3 in   district.
 
 The Hindu Mahasabha along with other Hindu organizations had given the call to perform a ‘puja’ at Mandhata Balaji cenotaph on Tiger Hill on January 1. Following this, the district administration had imposed Section 144 last Friday and suspended internet services from 6am on December 31 to 6am on January 2. The internet suspension has now been extended to 6am on January 3.
 
 The first day of New Year began with tension in Bundi as police teams patrolled the city. Additional forces were deployed in every corner ahead of the proposed march to conduct a ‘puja’ at 1pm from Malanmasi Balaji Temple.
 
 In order to prevent activists coming from outside the city, heavy checking of vehicles and buses were carried out at all entry points to the city. Large numbers of them were suspected to be pouring in from adjoining districts for the event.
 
 All shops had shut down and the city wore a deserted and tense look though there was no formal call by any organization for a ‘bandh’.
 
 Medical shops and petrol pumps, meanwhile, remained open.
 
 By noon, around 1,000 to 1,500 people had assembled inside the temple to march to Tiger Hill for the ‘puja’. Despite repeated pleas by the police and administration, the activists were adamant on carrying out the ‘puja’ and started the march at around 2.15pm.
 
 A large number of activists, who had gathered on a road near the Bundi district hospital that joins the Malanmasi Balaji Temple road, also moved to Meera Gate Circle. Police resorted to lathicharge to stop them from moving towards the Tiger Hill road.
 
 Around 15 persons sustained injuries and two were admitted to a hospital. Ankur Nimbark, a BJP activist, sustained head injuries, while another,  , sustained back injuries. Police has not confirmed the number of injured and those detained.
 
 Some activists of Hindu organizations had called to perform the ‘puja’ on Tiger Hill adjoining the Meera Saheb Dargah against the decision of the peace-keeping committee, said Kota range IG Vishal Bansal, who reached Bundi city in the afternoon to take a stock of the situation.
 
 Police had to use mild force to disperse the mob heading towards the Tiger Hill, he said.
 
 
