Now, going for a   at   Andhari   Reserve has become an expensive affair. According to a notice issued on the site of Maharashtra Eco Tourism, safari rates for Tadoba from January 5 are now `8000 on weekends for the bookings done between 60 and 120 days in advance. This development has come as a huge shocker for the wildlife enthusiasts.
Till January 4, 2018, for weekdays safari rate was `1000 and `2000 on weekends and holidays. As per the revised rates, now people will have shell out `8000 for the weekends and `4000 for the weekdays, and this doesn’t include costs for gypsy and guide that are `2200 and `300, respectively.” 
 “These rates are exorbitant,” says ardent wildlife lover Sarosh Lodhi, adding, “Twenty to 30 per cent hike is understandable but this kind of increase is ridiculous. They are taking common man away from the jungles.”
 Another jungle enthusiast Vinit Arora adds, “This decision is taken to put a limit on black marketing because some of the resort owners and tour operators book the safaris in advance, and later, make them available for their guests at higher rates. But it will not help. Moreover, genuine jungle lovers who will spent such a huge amount, won’t get any refund in case they have to cancel the safari.”
 According to wildlife photographer, Varun Thakkar, this is a smart strategic move by the jungle authorities. He goes on to add, “Firstly, Tadoba jungles are much in demand because probability of sighting a tiger is higher here. And the decision of revising rates has come at the right time. People will start booking for April-May, which is a vacation time for most of the people. They will book come what may. I hope Tadoba authorities pay more attention to the management part, which is not up to the mark at the moment.” 
 Another rule comes into effect
 Jungle visitors need to ensure that they reach the gates 15 minutes prior to the opening time for the ID checks and validity of the permits. Gates will be closed 30 minutes after the opening time and no vehicles will be allowed post that. On this, Vinit says, “Along with the price hike, this is another illogical decision. Keeping in mind that tourists of all groups come to enjoy safaris, a reasonable time should be given for the entry. The entry span should be one and a half hours.” 
 
