NEW DELHI: Israeli PM   Sunday told foreign minister   that using the inherent strengths of their relationship, based on their expertise in technology and people-to-people contacts, India and Israel can form the relationship of the future. 

 This was shortly after Netanyahu, accompanied by his wife Sara, landed in Delhi for a week-long visit to a rousing welcome - and a bear hug - by PM   at the airport. The 2 leaders then drove to Teen Murti, which was renamed  , to pay tribute to Indian soldiers who lost their lives in the World War I fight to liberate Haifa.
 
 TOI has learnt that the 2 countries, as they seek to catapult the relationship to the next level, will sign 7-8 agreements after the delegation-level talks and a private meeting between Modi and Netanyahu on Monday. Significantly, this will include an MoU on cooperation in oil and gas sector. Two other MoUs are likely to be signed in cyber security and joint film production.
 
 Netanyahu is only the second Israeli PM to visit India, after Ariel Sharon in 2003. Modi hosted a private dinner for Netanyahu and Sara at his residence. 
 
 Swaraj called on Netanyahu for a meeting to set the agenda for the official talks on Monday. Significantly, both agreed that India's position on the issue of US recognition of   as Israel's capital was not going to have any adverse impact on ties. India had last month voted in favour of a UNGA resolution which denounced President Donald Trump's decision to recognise Jerusalem as Israel's capital.
 
 In his meeting with Swaraj, in which he spoke about how the 2 countries can build the relationship of the future, Netanyahu essentially made 3 points.
 
 First, he said that he was deeply moved by the solemn ceremony at Teen Murti and also the fact that Modi himself had received him at the airport. Modi in fact had reciprocated Netanyahu's gesture of welcoming him at the airport when he visited Israel last year.
 
 Second, Netanyahu said that Modi's visit to Israel was a great moment in bilateral relations and that, while it was difficult to say it during the visit, with the hindsight of history it seemed "remarkable" .
 
 Third, Netanyahu also said that the objective of his visit was to catapult relations to next level, grounded on people to people ties and with the use of latest technologies.
 
 Netanyahu, who is accompanied by 130 business delegates, will also address the India-Israel CEOs forum and a business summit on Monday. He will visit the Taj Mahal on Tuesday before returning to Delhi for participation in the Raisina Dialogue. He will also visit Ahmedabad and Mumbai. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
