LUCKNOW: As UP government gears up to charge toll on the   from January 20, the 302-km stretch has turned out to be a successful venture. According to a by   ( ) at the Agra toll plaza of the country’s longest expressway in November and December, it registered 100% more traffic than that projected.

 Figures show as against a projection of around 6,000 vehicles per day, the access controlled expressway received an average of 12,000 vehicles per day during the months of November and December. This was the time when no toll was charged on commuters plying on the stretch.
 
 While in November almost 13,500 vehicles, mainly cars, SUVs and other light vehicles, hit the expressway, December saw over 11,500 vehicles zooming past the stretch. Figures show the number of vehicles plying on the expressway, in fact, varied from almost 26,000 per day during clear weather to barely 4000 vehicles when heavy fog engulfed the expressway, often leading to pile-ups because of extremely low visibility.
 
 “The traffic load exceeding the expectation seems because of the expressway being toll free. People preferred taking the expressway instead of the   that attracted a total toll of around Rs 390,” a senior UPEIDA official privy to the study told TOI.
 
 Though heavy vehicles were not allowed, there were instances of trucks entering the expressway illegally. Sources said UPEIDA also took into account these vehicles. “All the vehicles were handed a slip of their entry from the Agra toll,” confirmed the official. From January 20, all vehicles, including trucks and roadways buses would be allowed to ply on the expressway.
 
 The imposition of toll tax on vehicles -- Rs 570 for cars and Rs 1815 for trucks and buses -- could test the traffic load on the expressway. UPEIDA officials, however, believe the commuters would still be taking the expressway given the ease vis-a-vis Lucknow-Kanpur-Agra national highway. They cite the example of 165-km Yamuna expressway, which despite a toll of Rs 415 in case of cars, for instance, has an average traffic load of more than 18,000 vehicles per day.
 
 
 No loos, eateries along Agra expressway yet
 The Lucknow-Agra expressway will continue to remain devoid of essential facilities like petrol pumps and hospitals despite UP government levying tax from January 20. The wayside amenities complex comprising facilities like public toilets, fuel pumps and eateries, are yet to get fully operational. While UPEIDA has completed the construction work, it is yet to allocate contract for the services. UPEIDA officials said contracts would be allocated in at least a month.
 
