CHARMINAR: Known more for its pristine beauty and delicious food, Hyderabad’s   is well on its way to produce medal-worthy sportspersons too.

 
 Veteran body builder Esa Misri, the well-known muscle man from Old City, who won a silver medal in Muscle Mania Universe held at   in Florida, USA in 2016, is now training his two sons who have already won international acclaim.
 
 Though the family has been bringing laurels to the country, they fail to get any recognition or support from the government.
 
 “I have been winning medals for the country for over 20 years now and yet we don’t get any support from the government except congratulation messages. There has been no encouragement or financial support for me or my sons in all these years,” Esa Misri said.
 
 “Though there has been no support or help, I have been participating in all the competitions and encouraging my children to do the same because I always wanted to serve the country in some way or the other. A little support, however, could have made this journey easier,” he added.
 
 Esa Misri spent about two lakh for himself and for each of his two sons when they had to go to Miami in 2016 and Las Vegas in 2017 to participate in body building competitions.
 
 The sons, Osman bin Esa Misri and Ahmed Misri secured fourth places in Muscle Mania Juniors and Muscle Mania Physique categories respectively.
 
 In the Miami event, about 300 muscle men from across the world participated. The unique aspect of the event was tha for the first time in their history, a father and his sons participated and scored top places.
 
 Esa Misri’s third son, a 19-year old city   secured sixth place in the MM Juniors category.
 
 Osman bin Esa Misri and Ahmed Misri are now training to participate in another world championship in June but haven’t got any support from the State or Central government till date.
 
 “It is because of my father that we are able to bring laurels for the country today. He works day and night to pay for the tickets and train us every single day,” Ahmed Misri said.
 
 
