 In a bid to improve connectivity to  , an 81-km-long single-lane road from Palia town to   will be converted into a four-lane road. A decision to the effect was taken by the state government recently. The buffer area of Dudhwa starts from Palia town.
 
  Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had during a visit to the international bird festival in Dudhwa had announced better connectivity for tourists to Dudhwa. He had said his government proposed to develop Dudhwa as one of the biggest eco tourism destinations of India.
  
  According to sources, the proposed four-lane road will reduce the travel time of tourists heading for the forest. People coming from Lucknow and neighbouring districts will be able to return home on the same day without staying the night in the forest.
  
  Public works department officials have already started inspection of the road for the proposed expansion after getting instructions from special secretary, PWD, Raj Shekhar.
  
  The expansion of the road into four lanes between Lucknow and   city is already underway. In fact, most of the work is already completed. With the extension of the four-lane road from Lakhimpur city to Palia via Bheera area in Kheri district, travel time will be reduced further. It takes four-and-a -half hours to travel from Lucknow to Lakhimpur city at present but after the expansion of the road, it will take about three hours.
  
  The PWD officials are yet to approach divisional forest officer for ‘no objection’ certificate before cutting trees in order to broaden the road. Fortunately, no protected forest area falls in this stretch and necessary permissions are likely to be granted without any delay.
  
  When TOI spoke with a local resident, Samrendra Verma, about the proposed road expansion, he said, “This is a great move and it will definitely boost tourism in Dudhwa. However, government should also focus on improving the condition of the road between Lakhimpur and Katarniaghat, which is also a part of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve. A 22-km stretch of this road is in a very poor shape due to which tourists do not visit there.”
  
  DFO, south Kheri, Sameer Kumar told TOI, “There is no tiger protected area on this stretch of the road and no special permission will be required if it is expanded. However, we have to count the number of trees that will be felled for making way for this project. PWD department is yet to approach us for taking permission for felling of trees.”
  
  When TOI spoke with deputy director of Dudhwa National Park Mahaveer Kaujalgi, he said, “The four-lane road will decrease travel time by one hour and people can plan a one-day holiday. This will also attract investors to come and develop the area by building infrastructure like those in Ranthambore and Corbett National Parks.”
