A rap song that was released on February 1 has ended up becoming a big bone of contention between fans of two Kannada rap factions. The song in question,   by  , was presented by All.OK. Certain parts of the song have lyrics that talk about rappers who aren’t genuine and how they don’t rap but are crap. This bit has apparently offended the fans of rapper and Bigg Boss Kannada winner   and the fans ended up trolling the song. In return, fans of Team   hit back at these fans and there were a lot of words being hurled at both the camps on social media. We hear that there has been a white flag that has been unfurled between the performers, who have sorted out the misunderstandings. Here’s presenting what each had to say.

 Never in my wildest of my dreams did I imagine a controversy so big when we made the song. This genre is called satire rap and it is all about satire as the name suggests. We only wanted to call out all fake rappers, irrespective of the 
 language. We had no intention of targetting one particular person. It is the fans who have assumed things in their own way. We’ve even clarified later that there was no such intent. - Rahul Dit-o
 
 For us, it was never about going commmercial or the reach. We always have been content driven. When Rahul Dit-o asked me to produce this song, I said OK because he represented the pain of many underrated and unheard artistes in it. It is a satire and we’ve not targetted anyone in particular. We will, as a team, continue to make more digital content experiments in the future. Meanwhile, I thank   for being a good mutual friend between us and resolving any further misunderstandings. - All.OK
 
 We are Kannadigas and, in Karnataka, we only win through love and good will. In the USA there is rude rapping, where rappers take jibes at fellow rappers, but this doesn’t suit our   ethos. We are emotional people. For example, in life we remember the loving favourite teachers till the end rather than those who have been rude to us. We need to win people through love. I’ve heard the song and I support them, because anyone who is talented needs to be supported. - Chandan Shetty
 
 
 
 
