Rajkot: The woes of groundnut farmers in Gujarat are only compounding by the day. The National Agriculture Cooperative Marketing Federation (Nafed) has decided to stop procurement of groundnut at minimum support price (MSP) once it gets eight lakh tonnes, the limit set by the central government.  The Nafed is the designated agency to procure groundnut at MSP. At the same time, the Nafed has also decided to close down four procurement centres in Junagadh and Rajkot districts following several complaints of malpractices by traders. Both the moves are likely to hit farmers, who are already under severe distress due to groundnut glut. The Nafed officials said that as against the mandated eight lakh tonnes, which the state government would purchase from it, it has also procured 7.65 lakh tonnes. The remaining 35,000 kg will be completed in two days. Gujarat has seen a record high groundnut production at 32 lakh metric tonnes. Just before the polls, the state government announced purchasing groundnut at Rs 900 MSP in a bid to placate farmers who were complaining of getting peanuts for their produce.  The Nafed procures groundnut through Gujarat State Cooperative Marketing Federation Limited (GUJCOMASOL) and Gujarat State Co-Operative Cotton Federation Ltd (GUJCOT).  In the last two days, Rajkot collector office has also conducted raids at various godowns near Gondal and found sub-standard quality groundnut, stock that was brought from Rajasthan and irregularities like stones and heavy soil content in some of the bags. They also found that some of the stock came from Junagadh procurement centres. NAFED chairman V R Patel said. “We have decided to close down these centres where malpractices were rampant. We got to know that some of the traders impersonated as farmers and sold groundnut. They produced fake documents of land registration documents, passbooks and certificates of talatis. Three centres in Junagadh district and one in Rajkot district will be closed down.”  Patel said that the state government has requested the Centre to increase the procurement limit to 10 lakh tonnes. Currently, groundnut is being sold at Rs 600 to Rs 700 per 20 kg in the local mandis and as per rough estimates, over 50% stock is still lying unsold. Farmers might be forced to sell their harvest at lesser prices if the government caps procurement. Jogindrasinh Jadeja, a farmer in Moti Lakhani village near Jamnagar, who harvested 6,000 kg groundnut, said, "Majority of the farmers could not sell their produce at MSP. I had registered to sell at Hapa market yard but for the 20 days I am being told that there will be no purchase due to lack of bags.” Amreli APMC chairman Dipak Malani said, "Once the government stops procuring, the market price drastically go down and result in huge losses for farmers.” Vakmait Naghare, a farmer in Ghudvadar village of Junagadh district said, “If our stock remains unsold, traders will exploit us and force us to sell at cheaper rates.”