BENGALURU: It’s already five days into February, but the nip in the air is refusing to go, leaving Bengalureans wondering if summer will arrive at all. 

 The  , Bengaluru, has revealed that the minimum temperature during the month had plunged to a 10-year low. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 13.2 degrees celsius on February 1. The lowest the mercury had dipped during February over the last decade was 14 degrees celsius in 2011 and 2012. 
 
 On Sunday too, the minimum temperature was 13.4 degrees celsius. The month’s all-time low was recorded at 9.4 degrees celsius — in 1884.
 
 The head of Meteorological Centre Sundar M Metri said the minimum temperature is expected to rise over the next few days before it falls again.
 
 “Skies over Bengaluru will be mostly clear with mist very likely in the morning in some areas,” Metri said. “The maximum and minimum temperatures are very likely to be around 29 and 15 degrees celsius respectively over the next few days. After that the minimum temperature is likely to fall again.”
 
 Professor M B Rajegowda, agro-meteorologist with the University of Agricultural Sciences, attributed the dip in minimum temperature to a seasonal shift the city and the state has experienced this year.
 
 “We hardly had any rain from the north-east monsoon,” Rajegowda said. “The city got only some rain during the months of October and November as the south-west monsoon stayed till October end. This has resulted in the temperatures this winter. Usually we witness a dip in the minimum temperature late in December or early January, but it has extended to February as well.”
 
 Another reason for the chilly nights is the lack of moisture in the atmosphere, which also results in a clear sky. “In fact, on the city outskirts and at the two airports there is a further dip in the minimum temperature (11.8 degrees celsius at KIA and 11.2 degrees celsius at HAL as on Sunday). In the core city, pollution and other factors have contributed to a comparatively higher minimum temperature,” Rajegowda said.
 
 
 
 
 The weatherman, however, said a lingering winter does not imply a delay in the arrival of summer. A senior official with the Meteorological Centre said a harsher summer is expected this year. “In view of the changes in   systems and the seasonal shift experienced last year, there are chances of early attainment of maximum temperature this time,” an official said. The maximum temperature (29.4 degrees celsius recorded on Sunday), however, has been normal for the month.
 
 
