Ludhiana: With the Punjab Animal Husbandry Board’s decision not to host the horse racing event in the 82nd edition of   Games — popularly known as ‘Rural Olympic Games’ — spectators, mostly coming from nearby villages, seemed disappointed, and cursed the organizing committee members for failing to bring back the bullock cart races, even after the Tamil Nadu government has approved the ‘Jallikattu’ race in their own state, which too was banned at almost the same time about three years ago. In addition, horse races too are not being held this year due to the ‘Glanders’ virus. 

 On the inaugural day of the 82nd edition of Kila Raipur Games, dog race remained the centre of attraction among spectators and festival lovers. For the past several days, the dog race was not given a clearance by the National Welfare Board, but finally on Friday morning, the local administration gave a green signal to the organizing committee to host the race in this session of the games, as the event is already hit by a lack of interest among many of the old spectators.
 
 The games commenced with a hockey match, while different races and traditional events were running parallel to hockey. A few elder people claimed the festival would not survive in the future, as Kila Raipur had made its name only due to bullock cart and horse races.
 
 “Despite the fact that Jallikattu had re-started in Tamil Nadu, this year too Kila Raipur Sports Association members failed to bring back the animal races. Besides, the organizers have not brought anything new to the festival, after the ban on bullock cart race by the apex court. Farmers claimed that festival organizers should put in special efforts to uplift the event, as a large number of foreigners come every year, but this year only a few arrived,” said a spectator, Gurjinder Singh. According to estimates, there were only 700-800 spectators on the first day of the games, which earlier — during the bullock cart races — used to witness at least a 3,000-strong crowd.
 
 “Earlier, pistol shooting was also one of the events in the sports festival, but there is no such event in the sports festival now. In the years past, daring act performers had to wait long to perform their acts, as there were a large numbers of events in the festival,” added Singh. Foreign spectators too seemed indifferent after hearing the announcement of the organizing committee that this time, horse and bullock cart races would not take place.
 
 One Australian spectator, Ash Jennifer, who came to India especially for the Kila Raipur Games, said: “Last year, on the inaugural day, horse race events were held with such pomp and show, but this time it was missing, as a result of which the sports stadium seems too silent now.”
 
 Jagbir Singh Garewal, a core committee member of the Kila Raipur Sports Association — when asked why the association had failed to bring back the bullock cart races, even as ‘Jallikattu’ got re-started in Tamil Nadu due to the pressure of MLAs — simply said: “We will try our best to bring back the bullock cart races next year.”
 
 
