BENGALURU: An accident analysis report on buses operated by the   ( ) makes a startling revelation: a majority of the victims of bus-related accidents are twowheeler riders and pedestrians.

 Of the 738 fatalities analyzed between 2012-17, 267 pertained to twowheeler riders and 146 victims were pedestrians. The study was conducted by KSRTC in collaboration with World ResourcesInstitute( ) in five divisions — Bengaluru Central, Chikkaballapura, Mysuru Rural, Tumakuru and Davanagere. The other victims included passengers, bus crew, occupants of HMVs/LMVs, autorickshaws riders/drivers, etc.
 
 
 The study has also mapped the points of collision: 42% of the accidents were a result of head-on collisions with buses, 32% along the same side of the buses and 25% while crossing roads. Among the five divisions, Mysuru Rural had the highest number of two-wheelers and pedestrian victims in fatal accidents.
 
  
  
 
 KSRTC managing director   said: “The rate of accidents in KSRTC has been reducing over the years. It will come down drastically if two-wheeler riders are more responsible on road. In fact, many riders do not use helmets and try to overtake buses without judging the speed and distance, which results in accidents.”
 
 The study has found that of the 560 accidents reported in the last five years in these divisions, 450 were due to KSRTC drivers’ fault. And among the 738 fatal accidents, 44% resulted from over speeding, 26% because of distraction, 10% for wrong turning or overtaking and 11% due to maintaining low vehicle gap.
 
 The report further stated that the maximum number of KSRTC bus accidents were reported on routes between Bengaluru and the following destinations: Chennai, Chikkamagaluru, Tirupati, Shivamogga, Hindupur, Chintamani, Bagepalli, Gauribidanur, Tumakuru, Sira, Hosadurga and Pavagada. Also these were mostly due to over speeding and distracted driving. The five divisions have spent Rs 1.63 crore on bus damage repairs between 2012-2017.
 
 Street plays, jingles to raise awareness
 
 KSRTC will conduct street plays to create awareness. Transport minister   said: “The rate of accidents involving KSRTC buses is less than 1%, but we want to further reduce the number of mishaps.”
 
 He said the corporation will launch awareness campaigns, including street plays, radio jingles and short videos which would be played in buses and at terminals. “We will also reach out through social media. This report provides insights on multiple factors leading to these accidents. We are giving   medals to drivers who have a record of accident-free service of 15 years in mofussil divisions and seven years in city services. We are also giving silver medals to drivers with five years accident-free record in mofussil divisions and three years in city services,” the minister added.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 Affordability makes two-wheelers the first choice for many, but the vulnerability of riders is a matter of grave concern. The state's roads, many potholed, are overburdened by the everincreasing number of vehicles. Lack of discipline, poor traffic infrastructure, unscientific road design and ineffective enforcement of rules add to the mess. The state's killer roads claim a large number of riders every year and it often turns out to be survival of the biggest. It's vital to ensure a healthy space for both big and small vehicles; more awareness must be created to make roads safer.
 
