JAIPUR: The National Achievement   2017 conducted by National Council of Educational Research and Training ( ) found a reverse trend in the learning outcomes from Class III to Class VIII.

 A comparative data of seven divisional headquarters in   shows that Jaipur remains on top in most of the subjects, while   remains at the bottom.
 
  
  
 
 The assessment is done on subjects like  , Mathematics, Language, Science and Social Science for Class III, V and VIII. The assessment is based on 10-13 set of questions or puzzles given to students to solve it.
 
 Nearly 78% of Class III students in Jaipur have managed to solve questions in mathematics, while Bharatpur stood second with 77%.
 
 When it comes to Science, 81% students were able to solve the questions in Jaipur, while Ajmer comes next with 80% in Class III.
 
 However, when the figures are studied class-wise, the picture becomes alarming. Jaipur’s 78% students were able to solve learning outcome questions, while it declines to 70% in the Class V. While in Class VIII, the figures restricted to 59%.
 
 In terms of language, the learning outcome was 81% students at Class III which fell to 75% students in Class V and further reduces down to 70% for Class VIII.
 
 The figures clearly demonstrate that the outcomes start falling right from Class III. The problem lies in the early childhood education which is very poor in the state.
 
 “The study reminds that state has to work a lot more in improving early childhood education. By revamping aangwadis, the state has made a good beginning which has to reflect in the learning outcomes of students,” said K B Kothari, educationist.
 
 The aim of the exercise is to find out the gaps in learning in government and government-aided schools and accordingly interventions are required. State has claimed to have taken a slew of measures to ensure the improvement in the learning outcomes. From remedial classes to teachers training to improve the learning outcomes have been stated.
 
 Students of Classes III and V were surveyed on three subjects like Language, Mathematics and Environmental Studies (not for Class III) while for Class VIII, it was Science, Social Science and Mathematics.
 
 The urban-rural divide continues in the state at all three levels like Class III, V and VIII. The learning outcome in Maths at Class III was 82% in urban areas, while it was 75% in rural areas. As we move to Class V, the similar trend continues with 73% cleared the survey in urban areas and 69.17% in the rural areas. It further fell in the final leg at Class VIII with 63% students in urban areas and 58% in rural areas.
 
 
