NAGPUR: The   ( ) has initiated a process to provide identity cards to ragpickers. NMC’s health department (sanitation) has so far distributed IDs to some 450 ragpickers.

 The city generates about 1,100 metric tonne of municipal waste per day. Most of the plastic waste is collected by the ragpickers. “The idea behind providing IDs is that currently we have no data of dry waste being collected by ragpickers,” said additional municipal commissioner Ravindra Kumbhare.
 
 If they were enumerated and given identity cards, NMC would have the number of ragpickers in the city and their daily collection estimate.
 
 NMC held discussions with the ragpickers’ association regarding the enumeration. “In the second phase, we will provide ID cards to scrap dealers and bulk waste collectors, who do business with ragpickers. They will be categorized on the basis of the kind of waste they collect,” he said. Through them, NMC can get data of dry waste being generated in the city, said the additional municipal commissioner.
 
 Though the number might be big, so far the civic body has provided ID proofs to 450 ragpickers and of them around 250 were from   dumping yard.
 
 The IDs, which will be provided free of cost, will have details like name and zone of operation. “We are also gathering information on number of scrap dealers to whom the ragpickers sell the dry waste — mostly plastic,” said health officer (sanitation) Dr  .
 
 Social activists said that rag pickers suffer a social stigma and the ID cards should change this. “The amount of garbage going to the dumping grounds will also be reduced if they are allowed to collect garbage from households.”
 
 The civic bodies in Pune and Bengaluru have given ID cards to ragpickers to collect segregated garbage from households. NMC is yet to employ them to collect garbage at doorsteps citing “practical difficulties”.
 
 Dr Dasarwar said NMC’s health department has organized medical check-up camps for ragpickers at Bhandewadi dump yard. Around 170 ragpickers availed the free check-up.
 
 
