JAIPUR: State higher education department has come to the rescue of   College which was placed under 'No Admission Policy' by the All India Council for Technical Education ( ) for 2018-19 academic session.

 The department has directed the college authorities to improve deficiencies in areas pointed by the AICTE—maintenance of buildings, libraries, laboratory, poor quality of research work. “State higher education department has extended all possible help to save the institute and to save it from embarrassment," said an   College official. 
 
 The college officials are working overtime to complete the deficiencies. "State has grant funds for expediting the maintenance work which will be completed soon," said an MBM college official, who was part of the team who met state higher education minister Kiran Maheshwari, after the AICTE decision. 
 
 A review team from AICTE has visited the campus on Thursday to take a stock of progress made by the institute. The AICTE conducted the inspection on June 2017 and noted the deficiencies. The deficiencies noted by the AICTE says that college is running without 70% of required faculties. The total faculties required in 236 against the available faculty of 53 which the college is not in a position to fulfill before the start of new academic session. 
 
 "The recruitment process has been initiated and we are trying to complete it as early as possible. Meanwhile, we are working on ways to rope in guest faculties till the fresh recruits join us," said the college official. The college administration is also examining the Supreme Court orders which they say that AICTE cannot prevent the institute from admitting students which is aided by the state government and a constituent of a university. 
 
 AICTE’s inspection team found gross deficiencies in the college from shortage of faculty, poor maintenance of buildings and poor research work. The admission for this most sought after engineering college has been barred till the state or the college administration completes the deficiencies. Established in 1951, the college is one of the oldest technical institute in the country. 
 
 
