JAIPUR: The state government has given its nod to constitute Mukundra Hills   Reserve (MHTR) foundation ahead of shifting tigers by March. 

 Once tigers are relocated to Mukundra,   will be able to boast to have foundations in place for big cats in all three reserves, including Ranthambore and Sariska.
 
 Deputy conservator of forest T Mohan Raj said, “We have received the approval from the state government. We would immediately start an exercise to frame the structure and rules of foundation and get it registered.” 
 
 It was further informed, as provided under Section 38 X of the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972, the department will constitute foundation for MHTR with the general objectives to facilitate and support the management for conservation of tigers and biodiversity and to take initiatives in eco-development by involvement of people in such development process. 
 
 The tiger foundation will also open the door for MHTR authorities to raise funds through its own resources. “The foundation is a registered body under the Society Registration Act, 1860 and is authorized to accept assistance from individuals and companies for the purpose of fulfilling its objectives,” added a forest official. 
 
 The MHTR administration has now shifted the deadline to March 5 to complete the infrastructure and relocated the tigers from   (RTR). In Darrah range, the department is building enclosure to help animals acclimatize with the habitat before releasing them into the wild. For the same, in Darrah, enclosure is being developed over 24 hectares.
 
 If all goes as per the new plan, Rajasthan can boast of having tigers in all its three reserves. The forest department is finally relocating tigers to Darrah range of MHTR after 14 years.
 
 The project was first initiated in 2003 and notified in 2013, shortly before   became chief minister for the second time. The relocation project is expected to be completed during the present BJP government's tenure.
 
 Though MHTR is spread over 759.99 sq km, covering the four districts of Kota, Bundi, Chittorgarh and Jhalawar, initially, only 200 sq km in Jhalawar will be dedicated to tigers. 
 
