LUDHIANA: Instead of constructing a multi-level parking lot in the   — a commercial hub — civic officials are now planning to construct ground level parking, equipped with double basement. Earlier, the plan was to construct a five-storeyed building in the market with a capacity of around 600 cars. However, due to the problem of permission from   (LIT), the municipal corporation (MC) is thinking of changing the plan.

 The market was originally developed by LIT, and handed over to MC for maintenance. Therefore, when this project was conceptualized, MC was asked to get a ‘No Objection Certificate’ ( ) from LIT. However, earlier the LIT had asked MC to get permission from the Town Planning wing of the Local Bodies department, but now they have been advised not to construct a multi-storeyed parking in the market. Officials have reasoned that a multi-level parking was not passed in the original plan of the market.
 
 The chief executive officer (CEO) of Ludhiana Smart City Limited-cum-MC commissioner,  , admitted they were working on changing its plan because multi-level parking was not approved in the market’s original layout. He said Aecom company was working on the revised plan, and very shortly, they would prepare the design and project report.
 
 The market is a hub of commercial activities, as most of the banks have their main branches here. The Ludhiana Stock Exchange is also there in this market, therefore it remains crowded most of the time. MC is running five small parking lots in the market, but it is not sufficient as the contractor asks people to park on the roadside, and even on the lane kept for movement of fire tenders.
 
 MC had consulted stock holders and market associations who had considered the parking lot inadequate according to the market’s requirement. In view of this, better parking arrangements are required in the market. 
 
 
 
 
 Officials are also planning to introduce a mechanized parking lot in the market. MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh said that in Mumbai, mechanized parking had been introduced, so they were planning to bring it here in Ludhiana as well. “This type of parking does not require much space, and does not take time for construction, because the contractor will bring the parts and fix them here,” he said, while adding that they had called up companies to come with their proposals. 
 
 
