KOZHIKODE: Despite fielding a young side and missing the services of their top two players in Naveen Raja Jacob and Mohan Ukkra Pandian, Tamil Nadu men fought gallantly but that wasn’t enough to carry them through as hosts   entered the finals of the 66th Senior National   Championship at Calicut Trade Centre Indoor Stadium on Tuesday. Kerala won the match in straight sets, 25-22, 30-28, 25-22, but the victory wasn’t as easy for the hosts as the scoreline suggests.

 
 In Wednesday’s finals, both Kerala men and women will take on Railways teams.
 
 If Kerala’s major concern was poor blocking against Haryana in the quarterfinals, they made an array of unforced errors in the first set with the serves of P Rohith, C Ajith Lal, Vibin M George and even captain Jerome landing on the net. After taking an early lead at 5-1, Tamil Nadu clawed their way back due to a combination of Kerala’s lapses and 22-year old K Praveen Kumar’s fine attacking skills. TN levelled at 6-6 and 7-7 but with Jerome launching heavy smashes and GS Akhin-P Rohith pair holding fort, Kerala took a three-point lead at 14-11. Kerala didn’t allow TN players an opportunity for another comeback in the set and sealed it within 30 minutes.
 
 Though Jerome erred in his serves, he excelled in all other departments of the game in the first set and proved to be the difference between the two sides in the first set. “No doubt, Jerome is the number one player in the country right now,” TN coach P Sundaram said after the match.
 
 TN men seemed more determined in the second set, and levelled the scores many a time. With TN captain A Anand Raj, Praveen Kumar and experienced star GR Vaishnav scoring winners frequently, the former champions fought their hearts out till 28-28. But Jerome bagged two service points at the crucial juncture to give Kerala a 2-0 lead in the match.
 
 Kerala coach K Abdul Nazer’s idea to bring in N Jithin replacing setter A Muthu Samy paid off as he fed Jerome and Ajith smartly. With Kerala’s libero CK Ratheesh once again looking good, TN men had nothing special to offer towards the end as the hosts marched their way into the final.
 
 “Tamil Nadu surely missed their senior players but the young side played well. We are happy with our performance so far and waiting for the Railways game,” Kerala captain Jerome said after the match.
 
 Earlier, in the second women's semifinal, defending champions Railways marched into the final for the 10th time in a row beating Maharashtra in straight sets. Railways, with many Indian internationals like Minimol Abraham, Poornima MS, Anusri Ghosh, Priyanka Bora and   in their side, had no problem in outplaying Maharashtra women in less than an hour 25-8, 25-14, 25-18.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 Railways bt Maharashtra 25-8, 25-14, 25-18; Kerala bt Tamil Nadu 25-22, 30-28, 25-22.
 
