CHANDIGARH: Punjab local bodies department has decided to conduct a forensic audit to look into alleged financial irregularities in four cities to expose bungling in the tenure of the previous government. The exercise will begin with four key corporations and improvement trusts in the state.

 Releasing vision documents for two key departments on Wednesday, local bodies and tourism minister Navjot Singh Sidhu said the state government has appointed Grand Thornton Ltd as an independent review and forensic audit agency to conduct a forensic audit of infrastructure work over the past 10 years. He said the move would instill a sense of accountability in the departments concerned.
 
 “In the first phase, the audit will be done in big corporation cities of Amritsar, Jalandhar, Patiala and Ludhiana and their improvement trusts besides three municipalities of Kharar, Zirakpur and Rajpura. It will be completed by September,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Sidhu said Ludhiana, Amritsar and Jalandhar are covered under the smart city project, about which he met Union minister of state for urban development Hardeep Puri, who sanctioned Rs 350 crore for cities. The Punjab component in this would be Rs 50 crore. Long-term planning is being done to address the problem of clogged sewerage in cities and provision of clean drinking water to the urban population.
 
 
 
 To make Punjab a favourable film shooting destination, Sidhu said a Film City would be set up in Punjab. He said this would also go a long way in ensuring increased avenues of employment and reviving areas neglected by the previous government. 
 
 
 
 The minister said Rs 495 crore has been released for the BRTS project in Amritsar and three corridors within a 31-kilometre radius will come up this year. He also said a new advertisement policy is in the offing for self-sufficiency of local bodies and all-round development of cities. According to him, the policy will be implemented by April, 2018. He also said the previous policy of 2012 had many loopholes, which are being fixed.
 
 
 
 
