NEW DELHI: India dished out yet another clinical performance in the Under 19 World Cup, beating Zimbabwe by 10 wickets in their final group game on Thursday at Bay Oval, Mount Maunganui. After dismissing Zimbabwe for 154, with left-arm spinner   picking up 4/20, openers   and   chased down the target in 21.4 overs and ensured India went to quarterfinal undefeated. 

 
 
 
 
 Besides Anukul, fellow left-arm spinner Abhishek Sharma and medium pacer   picked up two wickets each. Gill (13 boundaries and one six) and Desai (eight boundaries and one six) remained unbeaten on 90 and 56 respectively as the former finished the match in style with a boundary down the ground. This was Gill’s second half-century of the tournament, an effort for which he was named Man of the Match.
 
 India tried a new opening combination in Gill and Desai and the move worked wonders. Desai played the perfect second-fiddle role while Gill motored along. In all three games, India have lost just seven wickets and have taken all 30 in the tournament so far, which bodes well for the Rahul Dravid-coached side ahead of the knockouts.
 
 
 
 
 On a bright and sunny day, Zimbabwe captain Liam Roche no hesitation to bat first after winning the toss but as it turned out, their batsmen found the Indian bowling line-up, once again led by the fast bowling duo Shivam Mavi and Kamlesh Nagarkoti, tough to overcomes. Mavi cleaned up opener Gregory Dollar with a lovely inswinger that hit the top of the off-stump.
 
 The scoring rate always remained a concern for Zimbabwe. Three of their batsmen – Wesley Madhavere, Milton Shumba and captain Roche – got into the 30s but none could capitalise. Everytime a partnership looked like getting threatening, the Indian bowlers struck. Madhavere and Shumba out on 25 for the third wicket before offspinner Riyan Parag had the former playing on. Shumba then combined with his captain for a promising 49-run stand for the fourth wicket but that stand was broken by Anukul. The left-arm spinner, coming off a five-wicket haul against Papua New Guinea, then removed Robert Chimhinya and Roche, and that triggered a slide for Zimbabwe.
 
 The last four batsmen could only muster 44 runs among them. Roy returned for his eighth over and cleaned up the last batsmen Nkosilathi Nungu, going for a slog.
 
 
 
 
