PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority ( ) has requested the central government to bear the cost of Pune ring road project pegged at Rs 10,234 crore.

 The entire cost of the Pune ring road project is Rs 23,828 crore, out of which the total construction cost is Rs 10,234 crore and land acquisition cost around Rs 13,594 crore.
 
  
  
 
 The matter had come up for discussion at a meeting chaired by Union road and transport minister Nitin Gadkari last week. The minister had asked PMRDA officials to make a presentation before the central road and transport ministry secretary.
 
 Earlier, only half the amount was assured by the   (NHAI) as part of construction cost as the officials felt that if they issue funds for one state, they would have to do so for others as well. PMRDA commissioner Kiran Gitte is all set to meet officials on Tuesday, said officials.
 
 While PMRDA has sought funds from the Centre for construction of the proposed ring road, the land acquisition cost is being borne via land pooling through town planning schemes, land in lieu of FSI in residential zones and townships, land in lieu of TDR and direct purchase.
 
 PMRDA officials stated that the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had in principle agreed to fund the construction cost of the entire project. However, Gadkari directed that NHAI will provide sanctions for the ring road only after completion of 80% land acquisition.
 
 At the meeting, Gadkari had directed guardian minister   and city MP Anil Shirole to put in all efforts to complete the acquisition within the coming months. The project can be completed within two years after commencement of civil work, he said.
 
 The state government had decided to take up the ring road project, which connects six national highways passing through the Pune metropolitan region. These highways are Mumbai-Pune (NH-48), Pune-Nashik (NH-60), Pune-Ahmednagar (NH-753F), Pune-Solapur (NH-65), Pune-Saswad-Palkhi Marg (NH-965) and Pune-Bangalore (NH-48).
 
 Though funds for construction of the ring road has been sanctioned both in the state as well as the Union budgets, PMRDA has sought additional funds, the officials said. The ring road is being implemented under Grand Challenge of Bharamala Pariyojana and while phase 1 of 32 km will comprise service roads with funds from PMRDA, funds are being sought from the Centre to complete the remaining part of the project.
 
 While the Centre will disburse funds, repayment is expected through toll and value capture finance with a special purpose vehicle to be formed by the National Highways Authority of India, the state government and PMRDA.
 
 According to PMRDA officials, the six segments are Satara Road to Nagar Road, Nagar Road to Nashik Road, Nashik Road to Mumbai-Pune Expressway, Mumbia -Pune Expressway to Hinjewadi, Hinjewadi to Shivne Road and Shivne Road to Satara Road. PMRDA has set a target for completion of all the six segments by 2022.
 
 
