MUMBAI: Along with senior   and   minister  , his predecessors Ashok Chavan, Narayan Rane, Rajendra Darda and Patangrao Kadam, too, are on the radar of the one-man committee headed by veteran bureaucrat K P Bakshi, former additional chief secretary (home).

 Bakshi confirmed to TOI that other than Desai, land denotifications during the tenure of Chavan, Rane, Darda and Kadam will be probed too. “MIDC and the industries department are collecting information on   of lands during the tenure of Desai, Chavan, Rane, Darda and Kadam. It’s not a new decision, nor have my terms of reference been changed. When the government appointed me, my committee was asked to inquire into land denotifications and allotments between August 2002 and August 2017,” said Bakshi. Chavan, Rane, Darda and Kadam were industries ministers between August 2002 and August 2017. All land allotments and denotifications during the period will be scrutinized by the Bakshi Committee. 
 
 Baskhi has been asked to probe if norms were flouted while denotifying lands and if there was any conflict of interest in the decision-making process.
 
 The issue of rampant denotification of lands acquired by MIDC was first raised by Dhananjay Munde, opposition leader in the legislative council, who submitted that large-scale prime lands in Igatpuri in Nashik district were denotified by Desai for the benefit of leading builders. Then, Munde had alleged that 400 acres acquired for industrial development in and around Nashik was denotified by Desai for the “cause of builders”. 
 
 “It was wrong to entrust the probe to a retired bureaucrat. It should be conducted by an independent authority and that too after sacking Desai,” said Munde.
 
 Munde was followed by his legislative assembly counterpart Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil and former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan who, too, demanded immediate dismissal of Desai for a fair probe. “The CM is protecting all erring cabinet ministers. Despite serious charges of corruption and irregularities, the CM did not sack even a single cabinet member,” said Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant.
 
 According to information procured by a Nashik-based RTI activist, between January 1, 2015, and March 31, 2017, MIDC denotified an estimated 31,052 acres of land across the state. Desai had all along denied the charge of any illegal decision, saying the due process of law was followed while denotifying lands.
 
 
