A Peace Commissioner of her native country Columbia, a political journalist and an award-winning author,   wears many hats. The journalist had played a crucial role in negotiating peace in her war-torn country between the government and guerillas. She also met Nobel Prize-winning Colombian novelist   during her stint as a political journo before being forced into exile in Mexico for her staunch stand on peace in the South American country.
The multi-faced personality was in the city as one of the speakers at the recently-concluded 8th  . In her first visit to India, which she describes as a magical and mythical place that all Colombians look forward to going, Laura opens up to   about her views on public voice of women, women’s writing and peace. Excerpts:
 
 
 
 Wars and conflicts can be very brutal, and most often takes away the men, and leaves behind women to manage the state of affairs. In such a scenario, when women are the ones leading the state, it’s necessary that they don’t invest in vengeance and focus on building a system of justice because justice is like a third mechanism between the victim and the propagator which ensures that the cycle of violence ends with the punishment.
 
 
 
 It was a challenging time for me as a Peace Ambassador. For the first time,   was giving a chance to the peace process after a lot of bloodshed. At that critical juncture, we planted the idea of negotiations through talks in both the groups. So, there I was, negotiating with two warring sides. Though there was a huge blowback in the first round, a few years later it did sprout again. Conflicts, at the end of the day are a business, so it takes more than just peace talks to end them.
 
 
 
 In Colombia, women have a strong public voice. Though women never made it to the top ranks of decision-making authorities, the lower levels always have strong independent women. So in 1980s, as the Peace 
 Ambassador, even though sometimes I was the only woman in an army barrack, amid hundreds of guerrilla soldiers and government armies, trying to find a middle ground, I relied on my 
 inner strength and courage. 
 
 
 
 Very often we think having a voice helps, but in Colombia, so many little girls are raped and killed and they are practically invisible in the country too. So, it’s right to say that having a voice is important, but what do you do when they aren’t even visible? So we need to push behind the muscular politics that thrusts women into invisibility and put more women under the system of justice.
 
 
 
 I like to write from my experiences, from what I have seen and experienced as a journalist. So a lot of my political and crime novels are drawn from experiences and investigations that I undertook as a journalist. Fictionalising real life scenarios was my idea. But I also chose to write from my experiences in Colombo, Sri Lanka which is how I wrote ‘Cows Eat Spaghetti’.
 
