KOLKATA: ‘Pupa’ — an awardwinning film that debates mercy killing — has finally got the nod from the   of Film Certification. The film was screened at the   in 2017.

 After a six-month-long battle with the local CBFC, the makers have been able to get the nod from Mumbai on Thursday. While Kolkata has recommended four cuts, the revising committee in Mumbai, which had actor Vidya Balan, has cleared the film with two modifications. This, the makers of the film believe. is an effect of the recent   verdict on passive euthanasia.
 
 
 ‘Pupa’ is a film about a techie in the US whose father goes into coma. Though doctors predict that his days are numbered, the reality is different. The techie faces a moral dilemma over whether or not to stay back in India. The techie stays on in Kolkata and finally when his father dies in the film, it triggers a debate over whether it was an act of murder or mercy killing.
 
 Director Indrasis Acharya said the film was initially screened at Kolkata CBFC office where all the scenes showing syringe and vials were asked to be chopped. “The local examining committee had also asked us to cut a scene of injecting the fluid into the victim’s vein. But I didn’t accept it and we applied before the revising committee in Mumbai. On Thursday, a committee comprising actor Vidya Balan and director  , among others, have approved the film with two modifications. We have been asked to blur the name of the liquid that is being administered to the patient,” said producer  .
 
 “The makers have been asked to blur the bottle and the syringe. Also a disclaimer has to be given stating that the film doesn’t promote mercy killing,” said a CBFC source.
 
 What surprised the maker was the difference in attitude among CBFC Mumbai and Kolkata officials towards his depiction of death in the film. “While Kolkata CBFC officials had told us that our depiction was crude, Mumbai officials found it realistic. We were told that the film has been shot in a subtle manner and there is no reason to delete the scenes,” Acharya added.
 
 Mehra presumes CBFC had a change of heart because of the recent Supreme Court verdict. “People are a lot more open about debating on mercy killing. Films like mine are throwing open that debate. That the CBFC has allowed to clear such a film even with a disclaimer is a big step,” Mehra said.
 
