From meeting popular   characters like The Powerpuff Girls to a fun-filled Zumba evening - it was a weekend full of Christmas revelry at different events in the city.

 
 
 On Saturday, a city mall invited cartoon characters, who made visitors dance to   numbers along with them. Apart from this,there was a flash mob that attracted visitors' attention.
 
  
  Kids interacted with their favourite cartoon characters (BCCL/Taresh Dutta)
 
 Aparna, a writer from Canal Road, said, "I had gone to the mall for shopping but as soon as I heard the title track of The Powerpuff Girls, I couldn't resist myself from coming to the activity area. While only kids were allowed to get pictures clicked with them, I requested the organisers to allow me to take some pictures with my favourite superheroes."
 
  
  TOON TIMES AT A CITY MALL
 
 
 Priya, a homemaker and resident of Dalanwala, said, "My son loves Ben10 and he loved Krish dabbing. He even danced with these cartoon characters.The organisers also gave us goodies, including a Shaka Laka Boom Boom pencil, Santa Claus soft toys and Santa caps."
 
 
 
 A fun-filled Zumba night was also organized by Rajpur Women's Club. Around 200 Zumba enthusiasts attended the session. The three-hour long session combined aerobics, lunges and dance moves. "It was a fun-filled Zumba evening and it gave us an opportunity to make new friends," said Abhinav Bhattacharya, a Zumba instructor.
 
  
  (BCCL/Taresh Dutta)
 
 Smriti Lal, one of the members of the club, said, "This was a great way of combining fitness with fun.We danced on some upbeat music and bonded over exercises."
 
  
  Around 200 zumba enthusiasts took part in the event (BCCL/Taresh Dutta)
  
 
 
 
 
  
  City-based singer   performed at the inauguration day of the winter carnival (BCCL/Taresh Dutta)
 
 An ongoing five-day winter carnival kicked off at Mussoorie Diversion on Christmas. It has been attracting Doonites with live music, DJ and some lip-smacking food. On the first day, city-based singer Kapil Thapa belted out popular Garhwali songs. 
 
  
  WINTER CARNIVAL (BCCL/Taresh Dutta)
 
 Prajwal, a student and resident of Suman Nagar, said, "We had gone to Mussoorie for partying and while returning, we stopped over and enjoyed dancing to Garhwali tracks and Punjabi songs."
 
