WUHAN: Prime Minister   and Chinese President   began their last round of one-on-one talks here on Saturday as they are set to wind up the two-day informal summit aimed at forging consensus to improve the bilateral relations and address the contentious issues bedevilling their ties.

 
 Today's talks included a walk around the famous East Lake here and an hour-long boat ride.
 
 They would conclude their talks with one-on-one lunch hosted by Xi in the honour of Modi.
 
 The Prime Minister is due to leave for home after that.
 
  
  
 
 The two leaders on Friday held extensive talks amid the warmth and bonhomie.
 
 They started the summit talks at the Hubei Provincial Museum where Xi took Modi around introducing the historic artefacts.
 
 The museum walk scheduled for 20 minutes lasted over 40 minutes after which they began one-on-one talks.
 
 The summit was stated to be unique as the two leaders have no pressure and obligation to strike any agreements nor make big announcements but focus mainly on candid discussions on solutions to some of the vexed problems like the boundary question and other issues.
 
 Their one-on-one talks were followed by delegation-level interaction with six top officials each from both sides took part, giving an impression that some of the critical issues were on the table for discussion.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 During his delegation-level talks as part of an unprecedented informal summit with President Xi Jinping in the central Chinese city, Modi hailed the centuries old Sino-India ties and said people-to-people contact should be promoted.
 
 Modi underscored the importance of people-to-people contact through STRENGTH : S-Spirituality; T-Tradition, Trade and Technology; R-Relationship; E-Entertainment (Movies, Art, Dances etc.); N-Nature conservation; G-Games; T-Tourism and H- Health and Healing.
 
  
  
 
 National security advisor Ajit Doval, foreign secretary Vijay Gokhale and Indian ambassador to China Gautam Bambawale were present in the meeting.
 
 Xi headed a high-powered delegation which included member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee Ding Xuexiang, member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Yang Jiechi and State Councillor and Minister of Foreign Affairs Wang Yi.
 
 The delegation talks which apparently focussed on some of the most contentious issues lasted for over two hours overshooting scheduled half an hour, hinting the seriousness of the discussions, officials said.
 
 Later Xi hosted a banquet in the honour of Modi at East Lake. 
 
 
