All is not well in actor Kiran Raj’s life. The actor has allegedly been in a relationship with model-actress   for a couple of years. They first met in Mumbai. While the duo kept the relationship under wraps for a long time, news about the existence of this relationship came up when Yasmin lodged a complaint with the Mumbai police (a copy of which is with  ), on March 31, 2018, accusing the actor of physically assaulting her. Kiran, on the other hand, has accused Yasmin of attacking his parents and abusing them, and says he lodged a complaint at the  . He couldn’t produce a copy of the compliant, however, at the time of going to press. More about what happened...

 
 
 On the evening of March 29, Kiran gagged me and started hitting me in his car. I broke the window and screamed for help. When people started to take notice, he and his friends took me to a garage, where Kiran continued to hit me. His friends restrained him when he hit me with a wooden stick and I started to bleed. The cops arrived at the garage and asked me to go with them to the police station. His friends then told me not to tell the cops anything. I agreed because they had my phone and I wanted it back. I then called Kiran’s parents and told them what had happened. His father pleaded with me to not go to the police station. In the meantime, Kiran managed to get rid of the cops. He took my phone again and locked me in a friend’s house, but I managed to escape from there. It was close to midnight then, and his friends spotted me on the road and took me to his house. There, his mother abused me and lied to Kiran that I hit her. They locked me in a room. I somehow convinced them that I would not approach the cops and managed to retrieve my phone. I quickly sent a friend in Mumbai my location and booked the first flight into Bengaluru for her. She reached Kiran’s house at around 10 am and we decided to head back to Mumbai, since Kiran and his friends wouldn’t let me got to a police station here. We then filed a complaint at the   in Mumbai.
 
 
 
 Yasmin turned up at my house and started abusing my mother. She damaged my car window and even hit my mother. She used some very bad words and abused my family. She then threatened to lodge a complaint against us and said that she wants to take revenge. For what, I don’t know. On the day of the incident, at 3 am on March 31, I went to the RR Nagar Police Station to lodge a complaint. I didn’t file an FIR, because I didn’t want to stretch the incident further. I even called her family and asked them to forget about what happened. They agreed to do so then. Yasmin is a fraud and has 2-3 cases registered against her. Her father also has cases registered against him. This is what they do — they dupe people; she honeytraps her victims. She is a psycho and would pick a fight and start screaming anywhere and everywhere, over trivial issues. She does all this just to get attention. Our relationship was never stable.
 
 
