COIMBATORE: So far, T  , 68, a homemaker from the city, has been depending on her fridge to beat the summer heat. But, this year she has opted to buy an earthen pot to store water. There has been a resurge in the interest in using organic products and traditional ways of cooking. 

 “When we used to store water in refrigerator, it would get too cold to drink and we would have to keep it outside for a while before we could drink it. But we have seen earthen pots cool water to an optimum temperature,” Renuka said. She added that the trend where people were turning to traditional lifestyle had also inspired her to opt for an earthen pot.
 
 “Today we see several people advocating not only for using earthenware, but also for millet diet and organic food. We feel this is a welcome trend,” says  , 72, Renuka’s husband. The couple was seen eagerly choosing an earthen pot from one of the several roadside earthenware shops on   in the sweltering sun.
 
 Like them, several city residents have taken up buying earthenware not only to store water but also to cook. Earthenware makers in the city say over the past few years they have seen an increase in sales. Also, they have introduced novel products such as earthenware cookers and water bottles to attract new customers.
 
 Ten years ago, the interest on earthenware was not so much, says  , an earthenware worker who has a shop on Mettupalayam Road. “Earlier there was a craze for stainless steel. But now people have started buying earthenware. They buy water pots mainly during summer. Rest of the year they come looking for earthenware crockery,” he said. He said his business was gathering heat this season. “We expect it increase in the coming weeks,” he added.
 
 T Sundararaj, owner of another earthenware shop, who comes from a family of earthenware workers, said he sells more than 30 pots a day. “We also sell items such as earthenware jugs, tumblers and water bottles, which have become a hit among our customers,” he said.
 
 The trend of buying earthenware roots from an interest in both health and tradition, say people who buy them.  , 42, an hotelier who was seen buying earthenware, said he had read and heard at several places the health benefits of drinking water stored in an earthen pot. “There is obviously a tradition factor. But as it is also said to have health benefits, it is an added benefit,” he said.
 
 
