KOLKATA: In the city’s first planned pre-monsoon   of insecure structures that are on the brink of collapse,   pulled down vulnerable portions of a century-old mansion in central Kolkata on Wednesday.

 Chunks from the building that had been gifted by Rani Rashmoni to her youngest daughter, Jagadamba Devi, after her marriage had collapsed three times in the past, the most recent one less than a month ago. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 A KMC demolition squad arrived at the 16 B,   address at sharp 11am but were met with resistance from tenants residing in the ramshackle house. Some 50-odd persons, including women and children, initially stood at the entrance, and then perched themselves in the portico and began singing devotional songs to stop the demolition men. 
 
 If they were seeking divine intervention, it didn’t work as the demolition squad retreated, only to return with renewed vigour and a large police force, including female cops, at noon. Realizing that any further efforts to stall the drive would be futile, the tenants retreated to their quarters and allowed the men with iron bars and shovels to march up to the terrace. 
 
 Though owner   did make a last-ditch effort to halt the drive on the grounds that he needed adequate time to shift his family, the KMC building department executive engineer who was leading the drive stood his ground and insisted that the team would not budge before razing the dangerous portions.
 
 It took a couple of hours for a dozen demolition experts to hammer down insecure portions of the building. By the time the day’s task got over, the portico where the woman had sung bhajans in the morning had turned into a dump yard of rubble. 
 
 The civic team workers departed after asking the tenants to shift out of the premises within a week. “We have razed the most vulnerable portions but the building remains unsafe. We want it to be vacated before monsoon so that there is no mishap,” said a civic official. The latter argued that finding an alternative shelter within seven days was next to impossible. 
 
 Every monsoon, lives are lost when portions of old and decrepit   in north and central Kolkata that have already been identified as insecure collapse. Attempts to incentivize reconstruction of these buildings have failed to generate enough enthusiasm. 
 
 Factors ranging from paucity of funds for upkeep of buildings to paltry rents and litigation between owners and decades old tenancies have led to the present situation. Owners are unwilling to move out and continue to reside risking their life fearing they will lose the property and crores of rupees that may someday materialise when the building crumbles and gets redeveloped. Tenants also refuse to vacate due to locational advantage. It would be extremely difficult to find another place at such paltry rent.
 
 KMC has identified six other ‘high-risk’ buildings on Lenin Sarani, S N Banerjee Road and B B Ganguli Street. Civic officials said it plans to raise the vulnerable portions in them in the pre-monsoon drive.
 
 
