CHANDIGARH: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday asked Sangrur MP   and leader of opposition Sukhpal Singh Khaira to resign from the primary membership of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and also as elected public representatives. The rival party advised them to seek a fresh mandate from public.

 SAD spokesman   said Mann and Khaira should not indulge only in theatrics to befool the people. AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal had accepted that he had made unfounded allegations against former minister   and apologized for the same, he said. “If Mann and Khaira feel differently, and are truly not with the AAP convener they should resign from Parliament and the state assembly immediately because they got votes in the name of Kejriwal,” he said.
 
 Speaking about Mann’s resignation as AAP Punjab unit president, the Akali leader said Mann should tell Punjabis why he did not resign when leader of opposition party Khaira was made an accused in an international drug case by a Fazilka court. “You must tell Punjabis why you did not respect the findings of a court which called Khaira the kingpin of a cross-border drug smuggling racket which was also involved in arms smuggling. Why didn’t this prick your conscience,” Cheema asked.
 
 Cheema also said the Sangrur MP had lost the assembly elections from Jalalabad. “Subsequently his position and authority in the party has been so severely eroded that his resignation is immaterial.”
 
 The former minister said, “Khaira seems to have forgotten that he is an accused in an international drug racket and that the court has made him an accused, not any political party or personality. Khaira’s co-accused have already been awarded 20-year prison sentences. In such a situation, Khaira does not even have the moral right to talk about drugs let alone try to wriggle free by using his connections with recently appointed commissions.”
 
 Cheema also said in the last one year, AAP had been virtually obliterated in Punjab. “Two of its four MPs have already deserted the party. Its candidate lost his security deposit in the Gurdaspur bypoll. In elections to municipal corporations of Patiala, Jalandhar and Amritsar the party drew a blank.”
 
 
