PANAJI:Terming India’s 100th spot ranking in the ease of doing business “abysmal”, attorney general of India K K  , and   judge A K Sikri said that among other things, foreign legal consultants should be allowed to advise clients within India. 

 “For a country that boasts of having become the second-fastest growing economy after entering globalisation, a ranking of 100 is still quite abysmal and a cause for introspection. We are in an era of globalisation and cannot shy away from it. This has to be kept in mind even when we talk of foreign lawyers practising in India,” Sikri said. He was speaking at the All-India Seminar on International Commercial Law, at Panaji, on Friday.
 
 “We were ranked 130 in ease of doing business. After we brought in some reforms, the   reviewed out position and we were raised to 100. Yet, I don’t think we can be very proud of being at 100,” Venugopal said, while pointing out that if India were to attract global investments, the nation should understand that with this, comes the need for foreign investors to have their own advisors.
 
 “Somehow or the other I think the   has not been looking at it with the same amount of concern that other nations have,” he said.
 
 The attorney general also said that in many areas of the world, foreign legal consultants are allowed to practise, subject to conditions such as requiring to register themselves, having a certain proficiency in the laws of their respective home countries etc. 
 
 “But India is not permitting them. Foreign investors have joint ventures and bid for projects. Yet, we don’t allow foreign legal consultancy. This is an impediment and we have to realise it. The matter came up before the Supreme Court recently, and it said that the maximum that can be permitted is for them to fly in and fly out. If you have to attract foreign investors, they need to have legal consultants of their choice,” Venugopal said.
 
 He further said that India had a long way to go in the field of arbitration.
 
  “International arbitrations require a totally different approach. Why is that India has not been able to be a successful centre for arbitration? The   (SIAC) is a busy hub and you will be surprised to know that a very large number of these cases are Indian cases, involving the Indian government,” he said. 
 
 
