Want the latest buzz on the gossip front? A peep into the lives of the rich and famous? A wind of Chennai’s best-kept secrets? Writer, activist, anchor, and queen bee   fills you in with all that and then some in this  .

 
 Muscular and once-upon-a-time-hottie Bharat, it seems, has opted to sport the dad bod. Perhaps he’s bulking up for a role, or it may just be that he’s enjoying his wife’s fabulous cooking. Spotted at the special screening of Nadigaiyar Thilagam, Bharat cut a chubby figure and an unkempt-beard- look that was so different from his otherwise chiselled good looks. 
 
  
 
 Whilst a highly paid PR person got appointed to this luxury mall, most events at this mall are apparently being outsourced. Top luxury brands and even mall events are being handled by external folk. Perhaps this lady is too busy focusing on her personal life. Unlike the same mall’s sister complexes around India, Chennai alone seems to be following a different PR code of outsourcing events, thereby resulting in a not-so-steady database for the mall itself. The question on many a mind is — why haven’t the PR woman’s celeb friends been seen at any of the events either. 
 
 
 A few years ago, Aarti Ravi was just another star wife. Married to the bankable actor Jayam Ravi, she accompanied him to events, awards and shone in his reflected glory. But today, she is a diva in her own right. Often spotted in expensive couture, with her skin and hair shining like never before. Thanks to her dedicated visits to her dermatologist and letting her jeweller father craft bespoke jewellery for her, she has mastered the star-shine formula. During a recent private event, people couldn’t stop raving about this gown that looked like a Zuhair Murad creation. It seems she spends as much money, if not more, as a top actress, on her styling and grooming, which includes day trips to Mumbai for the perfect haircut. 
 
  
 
 A well-known socialite and spiritual diva, who often hosts a famous godman in her home, had a rather peculiar experience with a well-known doc in the city. The lady who trotted along to this doc in the city for some relief from regular joint pains, we hear, ran back home in fright as her experience was anything but helpful. The doctor, under the pretext of examination, felt her up and asked her a few uncomfortable questions. 
 
 
 What is keeping actress Meena so busy these days? Well, she’s renovating portions of her home with some close friends offering helpful tips on design and interiors. Her daughter, we’re told, is suggesting many a pink makeover, while her mother has collected many antiques and idols to decorate their dream home.
 
  
 
 Those who think women officers in the police force are pushovers, think again! You don’t just need a Kiran Bedi to cite as an example of toughness. The media-shy and rather coy Deputy Commissioner (Intelligence) Mrs Vimala, sources say, is someone who is known as a riot-specialist and a magician with managing mobs. During a recent protest that shook the city, it was Vimala’s team that was in charge. Between phone calls, arrests and constant briefings to her bosses, she still kept surfing all news channels to ensure her men were not crossing the line while arresting people. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
