MADURAI : A driver of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation ( ) on Thursday did what many of his colleagues would have dreamt of but never dared to do. Tired of hearing complaints from passengers about the poor state of the vehicle, not to speak of the efforts he has to take to avoid accidents, he drove the bus straight to the regional transport office. He got the vehicle inspected, secured an ‘unfit’ certificate, promptly parked the bus back at the depot and walked away. 

 It is common knowledge that many of the buses operated by Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) are in bad shape thanks to lack of maintenance. The drivers, who are left with no other option, somehow manage to operate them bearing the complaints of passengers. Driver S Murugesan, 46, of Lakshmipuram in Theni said he has been finding it difficult to offer a proper reply to regular passengers who have been complaining for long about the pathetic state of his bus. He was attached to the Bodinayakkanur depot and was driving the bus with registration number TN57-N-1501 between Bodi and Theni via Uppukkottai. 
 
 He could not convince the Bodinayakkanur branch officials to get a better one either. On Thursday, he drove the vehicle straight to the RTO once the passengers alighted at the Theni bus stand. After obtaining a certificate that the bus was not fit to be used, he left the bus at the depot and walked away, leaving the officials shell-shocked. 
 
 A motor inspector at the RTO who checked the vehicle was also equally shocked to see its condition and issued a certificate stating that the bus was unfit for commuting. Selvam, the inspector, pointed out the absence of speed governor, dysfunctional handbrake, poor brake condition, damaged inner platform and rear step among other things to support his action.
 
 There was a temple festival on Thursday and the bus was crowded and Murugesan heard the passengers complaining of water leakage and damaged platform. “I tried to convince the branch manager Manivannan to get a decent bus, but to no avail. I have been given the badly maintained bus intentionally since I recently took up the malpractices in allotting duties to bus crew with the vigilance department,” Murugesan said.
 
 “I love the job and the   more than anything else and I do not want to bring disrepute to it due to the fault of the local officials,” Murugesan said. 
 
 An official from   region said that he would have taken appropriate action to replace the bus had the issue come to his notice. He also claimed that periodical maintenances were being done properly and that he would look into the issue.
 
 
