BHOPAL:   Lokayukta seems to have paranormal powers. A   investigating a land scam not only ‘recorded’ the statement of a man nine years after his death, but also submitted it before a special court in   — along with the death certificate that busted it. 

 The counsel for the accused promptly picked on the dead-man-talking blunder to cast doubts on the entire investigation. 
 
 The case revolves around 800 acre agricultural land, owned by 141 farmers, which was allegedly auctioned without their consent after they defaulted in repaying loans from the  , Bhopal, and  , Huzoor. It’s alleged that the farmland — worth Rs 1,600 crore according to the collector’s guidelines — was auctioned for a mere Rs 1.5 crore.
 
 On receiving a complaint, the Lokayukta’s special police establishment registered an FIR on July 4, 2013, against several officials and people who purchased the land. The back-from-the-dead statement was among the evidence attached with the FIR and produced in court along with the chargesheet. So was the death certificate.
 
 According to Lokayukta, the statement of ‘Radheylal son of Shriram, resident of Sagoni Kalan village under Huzur tehsil of Bhopal’ was recorded on April 4, 2013, and produced in court. Radheylal apparently said that he had taken a loan of Rs 8,000 from the bank but couldn’t repay it. “Later, my 7.10-acre land was sold at a throwaway price by officials without even informing me,” says the statement.
 
 Tucked away in the sheaf of documents was another piece of paper — a death certificate, issued by Sagoni village panchayat, saying Radheylal died on August 16, 2004. The statement of Sagoni’s sarpanch, this too recorded by lokayuta, was submitted in court by the investigation agency on December 13, 2015, says that Radheylal died on August 16, 2004.
 
 Counsel for accused Deepak Agarwal pointed it out to the court on January 12 this year. Advocate Ehtesham Qureshi wondeerd how the investigation officer recorded statements of Radheylal after his death. 
 
 The court observed that it will be appropriate to take action when evidence regarding this discrepancy comes during the hearing.
 
 
