' ' ('SKTKS') has hit all the right notes, the cash registers are ringing and   is riding high on a wave of success. Besides the positive response for the film’s storyline, the actor’s performance as the selfless friend Sonu, who would go to any extent to save his friend Titu ( ) from falling for the wrong partner, is being appreciated. 

 Kartik says, “The moment I heard the script, I realised that the character has multiple shades. The USP of the movie is the bromance between Sonu and Titu. Everybody wants a friend like Sonu, who will stand by you like a rock. It could have come across as overly possessive and intrusive had I gone overboard. So, I had to draw a line and be careful about not stepping over. This film is about friendship and fortunately, people have got the right message.”
 
 Although he has been complimented for his performances in the ' ' franchise, he claims, 'SKTKS' will always be closer to his heart. “Sonu is the most heroic character I have ever played. The kind of emotional connect and impact he has been able to make is beyond imagination. He makes you cry, laugh and ponder, which is why you connect with his emotions. The film’s music is also great. For the longest time, I had yearned to have a hit song to my credit and who knew that wish would be fulfilled in this way — not just one, but all the songs in the film are chartbusters,” says Kartik. To get the nuances of Sonu’s character right, the actor took part in a lot of workshops followed by reading the script over and over again. He even had to work hard on his body and follow a strict diet to look the part.
 
 As accolades pour in from all corners, Kartik is particularly kicked about the praise from the film fraternity. He says, “People I have dreamed of working with have been calling and messaging me, appreciating my performance. It feels great when people talk about your craft and you get noticed for it.” The positive response on social media has encouraged him to visit theatres and experience the hysteria first hand. He adds, “The messages and tweets have been encouraging and the response has been tremendous. At the theatre, people were clapping and whistling throughout. I was even mobbed after one of the screenings. My parents, who were with me, were overwhelmed in the beginning, but later got scared after some people started banging against my car for pictures. The response to the film feels surreal. I’m proud of the film and the efforts of the entire team, including director Luv (Ranjan) and my co-actors.”
 
 Kartik is happy that his hard work and patience have paid off. “People have told me that I am on the brink of stardom. I started very young as a hero. I was just 20 and I looked different back then. Most actors begin their careers at the age I am now. I have been told that I was well-utilised in my first film, but I was too young. Some people thought that I was crazy for declining a lot of offers while I was filming 'SKTKS', but I have waited patiently because I knew I had a winning hand. I have always believed that it takes time for things to fall into place and I am glad that my patience and hard work have paid off,” the actor signs off.
 
 
