CHENNAI: In a major embarrassment to the   government, the   on Thursday ordered a CBI probe into the alleged multi-crore   in which involvement of state health minister C Vijaya Baskar and director general of police T K Rajendran are suspected. 

 The first bench of Chief Justice Indira Banerjee and Justice Abdul Quddhose passed the order on a PIL moved by J Anbazhagan of the DMK. 
 
 On January 30, the court noted that the way the Tamil Nadu government was opposing a simple PIL for a CBI probe into the alleged gutka scam was prompting the court to go deeper into the issue, before reserving its verdict on the PIL. 
 
 It all started on July 8, 2017, when the income tax department conducted raids at the godown, offices and residences of a pan masala and gutka manufacturer in Tamil Nadu, who was facing charges of evading tax to the tune of Rs 250 crore. The manufacture, storage and sale of the carcinogenic chewable forms of tobacco, including gutka and pan masala, were banned by the state government in 2013.
 
 
 During the raids, the department seized a diary containing the names of those who were believed to have been paid off by the gutka manufacturers, and one among them was the state's health minister. 
 
 Immediately, the DMK moved the court seeking to appoint a special investigation team (SIT) headed by a retired judge of the high court, comprising officials from the CBI. While the high court was proceeding with the hearing of the case, on January 12, in a damming disclosure to the court, the I-T department said a confidential note written by it in the gutkha scam was recovered from AIADMK leader V K Sasikala's room in late Tamil Nadu chief minister Jayalalithaa's house in Poes Garden here during raids conducted in November 2017.
 
 The I-T department's letter had been forwarded through the then   to the then chief minister, Jayalalithaa, but was found and seized from a room occupied by Sasikala.
 
 "During a search conducted by the department on November 17, 2017 in the rooms occupied by Sasikala in Veda Nilayam, a note dated September 2, 2016 signed by the then DGP addressed to the then chief minister enclosing copies of secret letter dated August 11, 2016 addressed by then principal director of income tax department to the DGP in connection with the gutka scam was found and seized," the department had said. 
 
 Earlier, advocate general Vijay Narayan said the case being predominately against state government officials, it should be probed by the DVAC, with cooperation from the CBI, and not vice versa. Moreover, the DVAC probe was at the final stages, he said. 
 
 P Wilson, senior counsel for the petitioner, said: “Even the FIR was registered only after the issue was highlighted in the state assembly by the opposition. When such was the situation, how can we accept that the DVAC would conduct a fair probe? Moreover, finding holes in the probe conducted by the DVAC is not the issue at all. Inflicting confidence in the people’s mind that a fair and transparent probe would be conducted is the need of the hour,” Wilson added.
 
 Noting that the DVAC does not have powers to file a case against the central government officials and in the incidents occurred in other states, Wilson said, as the allegation is of a multi-state scam, the CBI is the only appropriate agency to carry out investigation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
