MUMBAI: In an attempt to boost affordable housing especially under the Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana ( ), the state has appointed   as a special planning authority. 

 This means that no separate permission from local authorities like the   will be required for the development of 114 Mhada layouts in the city and suburbs. The state urban development department issued a notification to this effect on Wednesday. “This will speed up the development of Mhada layouts because there will now be a one-window clearing system. 
 
 
  
 
 The developer will not have to separately approach civic bodies for permission,” said Mhada vicepresident  . This will apply not only to current Mhada layouts but also future layouts. With these powers, Mhada will be able to approve building plans on its layouts. “Earlier, when plans of developers were approved by Mhada, the other approvals from civic bodies would take a long time. This will speed up the creation of affordable housing,” he added. 
 
 The state’s notification says that Mhada will function as special planning authority for projects under the PMAY and projects being implemented by Mhada or where the body is a joint venture. 
 
 Also, projects where Mhada is a nodal agency for public-private partnership projects. Under PMAY, the government has proposed 19 lakh houses in urban areas of   by 2022. Mhada is the nodal agency for implementing the PMAY in the state. However, housing activist   has voiced concern about the bypassing of civic bodies for projects undertaken by private builders on Mhada land.
 
  “If the project is being undertaken by Mhada, which is part of the government, then it is understandable to not take separate permission from civic bodies.
 
  But if it is a development where a private builder is involved even in a joint venture with Mhada, then why should the civic body permission be bypassed?” he asked. He added that permissions from multiple government bodies act as an additional checks in building and redevelopment clearances.
 
