GURUGRAM: The department of town and country planning ( ) has recommended the registration of an FIR against a developer for setting up an unauthorised colony in  . 

 DTCP officials said the builder illegally carved out plots and built roads in a controlled area in Mandawar. The   has now been demolished, and department has sought an FIR for infringement of the provisions of Punjab Scheduled Roads and Controlled Areas Restrictions of Unregulated Development Act, 1963.
 
 On Thursday, district town planner (enforcement)   wrote to the Gurugram police commissioner, stating that a private builder had built an unauthorised colony, including farmhouses, residential buildings, commercial establishments and a road network, in the revenue estates of villages   and Mandawar.
 
 Both sites have been notified as controlled area around government primary schools. Even the Final Development Plan of Sohna, which was notified on November 15, 2012, states that “the sites fall in the agriculture zone, where carving out of residential/commercial colony is a non-conforming activity”.
 
 In its complaint, DTCP said the developer violated Section 6 of the Act by carving out plots and developing a road network in an unauthorised manner without prior permission from the director general of DTCP. SR Developers also changed the land use without taking permission from the competent authority, as required under Section 8 of the Act, the department stated.
 
 On February 24, DTCP had issued a showcause notice to the developer, seeking an explanation, and told them to restore the land to its original use. However, no reply was received. On March 8, a restoration order was issued, but no amendments were made by the builder.
 
 Since then, two demolition drives have been conducted in the area — one on March 24, another on May 15.
 
 “We have requested the police department to investigate the matter and register an FIR against the offenders as well as other associates, for violating the land use,” said Rajendra Sharma.
 
 
