LUCKNOW:The largest investment proposal received by UP before the Investors’ Summit is in the defence sector, at Rs 1lakh crore.

 The   has cleared a proposal to set up an exclusive corridor—a cluster of industries involved in manufacturing defence goods—in the state.
 
 Industrial development minister   confirmed that a formal announcement detailing the proposal will be made during the summit on February 21-22.
 
 “The Centre recently allowed private investment in defence manufacturing under the overarching umbrella of ‘Make in India’ and UP is expecting both central and private investment to flow into this sector...focused around a defence corridor,” he said. Chief minister   had made a huge pitch for investment in defence manufacturing while addressing the Investors’ Summit road show in Mumbai, saying that UP had massive potential for growth in this sector.
 
 “The PM wants to shed the tag of India being the world’s largest importer of arms. He wants it to become self-sufficient instead. Because of the infrastructure at our disposal, and great connectivity, UP is an ideal state for this kind of investment. It already has a strong presence of public sector in this field and is now looking to tap private investments,” said an official.
 
 The state government has prepared the   and  , 2018, which is currently under discussion.
 
 
 
 
 The draft policy states that the government will “strive to set up aerospace and defence parks in the state, especially in areas with strong ecosystem support”.
 
 It has identified districts like Kanpur, Gautam Budh Nagar, Agra and Varanasi as its focus. UP already has public sector units, such as three of Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd, that are into manufacturing ammunition, arms and combat clothing. Kanpur itself is a hub for defence manufacturing, producing casting for tanks, ammunition and leather items.
 
 For defence parks, the government will focus on manufacturing area for components, sub-components, subassemblies and aerospace parts, special economic zones, testing centres, hardware and embedded technology centre, technology innovation centre and housing and common facility centre.
 
 “Having concentrated pockets of a specific kind of manufacturing, in this case defence, will allow for development of common facilities. Incentives can be easily distributed while infrastructure can be shared easily. UP will not just have nine airports by the end of this year but also has the Delhi-Mumbai expressway and Amritsar-Kolkata expressway passing through it. The state is an ideal location for manufacturing,” an official said.
 
