
  
 
 I am a bit of everything, depending on the age of the child, situation, and need. My daughter is 15 and my son is seven, so I have been many people – a dictator setting boundaries, their best bud, and at times, just a mom. But mostly, I am their personal secretary doing odd jobs and organising stuff.
 
 
 
 I don’t know about that moniker but I do feel mothering is a learnt skill – most learn on the job and I am also one of them. The most challenging part is to get the formula right and not make too many mistakes. Even if you falter, realise where you have gone wrong and rectify it. I hope I have done it right and my kids love me. 
 
 
 It is a cliché but true. What makes it so special is the unconditional love that you have for your child... that kind of strong love only a parent can have for their kids. The reverse may or may not be true, but for a mother her baccha is always “sabse pyaara and sabse smartest”. 
 
 
 Motherhood is never easy for anyone – celebrity or otherwise. As a celebrity, I am only facing a different set of issues. When the kids were young, they didn’t understand what the fuss was about. Nysa would get very upset whenever I took her along to shoots because of all the people around me. I keep reminding my children that they are privileged in many ways. Being a celeb kid also comes with a lot of pros.
 
 
 
 Every day. I have learnt that things aren’t as complicated as we make them to be. As adults, our perspective is convoluted. For example, adults crib but never have an open discussion to sort things out. Kids are different; they don’t believe in sleeping over issues and holding grudges.
 
 
 
 In the nicest way possible. My patience level has gone up significantly. I used to be very intolerant earlier, but now I have learnt acceptance.
 
 
 
 Every parent has to make adjustments, and so have I. But I wouldn’t call them sacrifices. I could have left my children to nannies or to my family, but I decided not to. It wasn’t a sacrifice/compromise but a conscious choice. 
 
 
 
 I am a fan of ‘love yourself’ philosophy – and I don’t just mean physically. It’s important that you look after yourself first so that you can give the best to your family. If we don’t feel compassionate towards ourselves, how are we going to spread it? Mental well-being is another aspect of self-care that we keep ignoring. A harried, on-the-edge mommy will never be able to give her 100 per cent. 
 
 
 
 I am more forgiving of myself today. I don’t guilt myself too much. At times, Yug says “Maa, you don’t have to go to work today!” I ask him, “Do I stop you from playing? That’s your job, this is mine. Let’s both have fun.”
 
 
 
 The way I see it, I am a juggler who hopes that one of the balls don’t slip out of the hands. With experience, I have realised that on some days you are a better mother, some days a better wife, some days a better actor... It’s all good as long as you are happy.
 
 
 
 I think it’s very educative for children to have working parents, and to have a working mother. A working mom influences the girl child. I hope my daughter will realise that it’s important for her to work for her own development. In whatever area they choose, women should work, if they can. They should realise that it’s not just a man’s job to be the breadwinner.
 
 
 
 One, they must possess the ability to be passionate. Two, they should be at peace with their choices. 
 
 
 
 As a parent, you both realise that you do love the child more than the other person. If you ask Ajay, he would echo the same sentiment. It doesn’t take away from the love and respect that we have for each other; but the love that a parent has for a child has no comparison.
 
 "Working mothers are a fabulous breed. We are producing boys who will encourage their wives to work. And girls who will want to work because she has seen her mother do so. All we are asking for is a little bit of understanding and a lot of respect. Fathers may have it easier, but they now know their role is much more than just writing the cheque."
 
 "I’m the strict principal who breaks the ruler on their knuckles (figuratively), but Ajay and I are on the same page as parents,"
 
 
 
 
 
