NEW DELHI: A week after the first breakthrough in the CBSE   case, the special investigation team of Delhi Police   another group that had leaked the   from   in  .  , appointed by the education board as an  , was discovered to have   of the question paper among his students and a relative in Chandigarh. Two employees of DAV Public School were also apprehended.

 Special commissioner (crime) R P Upadhyay confirmed the developments to TOI and said the accused were produced in a court and taken on remand for two days of questioning. More arrests are likely with at least a dozen people being interrogated. The role of other teachers in the school is also being probed. A case of criminal breach of trust (Section 406 of IPC), cheating (420) and criminal conspiracy (120B) has been registered against the three men.
 
  
  
 The paper that Kumar leaked was eventually circulated in 40 Whatsapp groups. The commerce and economics teacher had been put in charge of overseeing the exams for three other schools at an exam centre there. He took the help of clerk Amit Sharma and peon Ashok to access the question paper to give to students who came to him for tuitions and to a woman relative whose son was appearing for the examination.
 
 “Since Kumar had earlier worked as a co-ordinator with CBSE, his principal again recommended his name for this task in February. He was given access to the bank vault where the paper was stored,” said Alok Kumar, joint commissioner (crime).
 
 The plot was unravelled when the cops identified a Delhi student who had forwarded the handwritten question paper in a Whatsapp group. His parents are related to the Chandigarh woman to whom Kumar had sent the question paper. Though Kumar claimed he wanted to help only his weaker students pass the exams, sharing the paper on social media showed intent to reach others too.
 
 At least 40 students got access to the paper. Police are investigating whether the trio got money for leaking the paper, and have seized their mobile phones and sent them for forensic analysis.
 
 The cops are now trying to identify the whistle-blower who couriered the handwritten copies of the same question paper to the   office, also providing the names of four Whatsapp groups on which it was circulated.
 
 
