KOLKATA: The character of illegal buildings in Kolkata has undergone a metamorphosis prompted by economic and socio-political factors. From catering to the aspiring middle class to the emergence of a new breed of builders armed with money and political clout,from arising socio-political problem to a change in image, the reasons are aplenty.

 
 Illegal buildings in areas like Topsia, Tangra, Kidderpore,   and Garden Reach are no longer identified with dull brick and mortar exteriors, cramped interiors and narrow serpentine stairs. These have made way for snazzy exteriors, parking spaces and round-the-clock water supply.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 “There is an emerging middle class which is willing to spend more to buy a comfortable place to stay in. They want a place that matches their aspirations and lifestyle. This is playing a big role in changing the nature of the illegal constructions,” said a builder in  .
 
 In the last two-months, two people have died after falling into lift shafts in   and Watgunge. Both the buildingshavebeen identified as illegal by the  .
 
 There is a socio-political factor too,which has prompted builders to cater to a section which is affluent but either wants to reside in a specific neighbourhood or has been rejected housing in other pockets of the city.
 
 “There is a big section of buyers who have been rejected homes in other, more cosmopolitan parts of the city despite being able to afford them. They are willing to spend money for amenities like lifts, parking space and round-the-clock water supply. They willingly purchase apartments in buildings that may be fully or partially illegal but provide the amenities,” said another developer.
 
 This is however a new trend in the city. In central business district where real estate space is at a premium, developers try to monetise every inch. There have been several instances in the past when common washrooms and corridors were converted into shops and offices to fetch more money. Such practice is illegal but even these buildings provide amenities like lift, parking space and continuous water supply.
 
 This trend has recently shifted to densely populated neighbourhoods of Topsia, Tangra,Beliaghata,Ekbalpore and Mominpore.
 
 One of the other reasons is that, in the last few years, prominent city-based leaders from the ruling party have become developers themselves. Their involvement means access to more funds and absolutely no difficulty in circumventing the law. “Many of these leaders hold important posts either in the civic body or the state government. Then there are other political compulsions like vote bank and keeping the political workers happy by providing them with an avenue to make money,” said a civic official.
 
 Some builders in Ekbalpore and Mominpore who spoke to TOI said that many of them were investing a little in making the exteriors snazzy to attract better customers.
 
 “Earlier people could spot an illegal building from a distance from the look of it. The exteriors would be just brick and mortar with no windows or verandahs. Even the buyers would complain that the place looks ramshackle. Since buyers are willing to shell out more for better amenities, even we do not have any problems giving the exteriors a snazzy look,” said an Ekbalpore builder.
 
