PUNE: The labour department has proposed creating a separate cell in every collectorate to ensure that all   labourers in the district are registered and can access welfare schemes. Additionally, the labour department will be able to provide   free safety kits through the cell. 

 In the wake of several accidents at construction sites, the government decided to provide free safety gear through the department. However, only registered construction workers will receive the kits.
 
 At present, there are as many as 3 lakh registered construction workers with the Maharashtra Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. However, officials stated, there are approximately 45 lakh workers in the construction industry and a large number of them have not registered with the board.
 
 According to officials from the labour department it is necessary to start the process at the local level to ensure easy registration and extend welfare schemes. In November, the department had announced that it would distribute safety kits to all construction workers. 
 
 Officials further added that the registration process would help streamline the process and district-level cells will enable constant updation of the list.
 
 Another senior Mantralaya official fshared that, as per another proposal, upon registering under MahaRERA the developer must include data about labourers working at the site to provide the government clarity.
 
 Developers, who mainly outsource the work to contractors, have welcomed the move.   president   stated that a separate wing in the association keeps a tab on construction safety and regulations. “It is a good initiative to   workers,” he said.
 
  of   said that while the initiatives look good on paper, they aren’t necessarily implemented. “Even after ten years there is hardly any implementation of the Maharashtra Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Rules, 2007. So even as new rules are put in place, we will not believe them unless it is implemented as we have been demanding for their rights for quite some time,” he stated.
 
 
