Coimbatore:  , which was a natural stream carrying rainwater from the Thadagam valley into the Singanallur lake until the 90s when sewage was let into it, is all set to get a makeover as the state government is expected to allocate Rs 295cr for the rejuvenation and restoration of the 11.5km-long canal.

 Over the years, the canal had turned into a foul-smelling narrow drain due to garbage dumping and encroachment. “It will be de-silted and cleaned. Stress will be on reducing traffic by providing alternate road along the canal. Retaining walls will be set up on both sides to avoid further dumping of waste. Walkways and play areas will be set up along the canal. At available spaces, parks will be set up,” said a senior corporation engineer.
 
 The rejuvenation process will begin from the Mettupalayam Road and go along the canal covering various areas such as Rathinapuri, Gandhipuram, P N Palayam, Puliyakulam, Singanallur lake and Kallimadai. “This stream runs through the centre of the city and if the areas around it are developed, it will be one of the major green spaces in the city,” the engineer told TOI.
 
 The city corporation had submitted a Rs 295cr proposal to the finance committee for the work last year. But, it contained only the current width of the canal and the areas that are currently in possession of the corporation. Senior state government officials wanted the civic body to rework on the proposal to ensure that the actual right of way is restored. “The canal’s width has shrunk over the years. That needs to be restored for long-term benefits and to avoid the flood, like the one happened in Chennai,” said an official. The width of the canal varied from 20m to 100m at various places.
 
 Corporation commissioner K Vijakarthikeyan said that the consultant for the project — SunCon Engineers Private Limited — were conducting field study and reworking the proposal. “The proposal will be altered within a few weeks and sent to Chennai for scrutiny. We have received a go-ahead already for the project, but it will be official only after the final proposal is approved,” he said.
 
 The consultant told TOI that they are conducting surveys on the topography, land use pattern and encroachments. They will also conduct a socio-economic survey in the coming weeks.
 
 The project will be taken up in two phases. The stretch near Singanallur lake will be taken up first as it does not have much obstructions and encroachments.
 
 Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu slum clearance board and the housing board will assess and relocate the slum dwellers along the canal to new tenements.
 
 
