NEW DELHI: Delhi Police Crime Branch today cracked the case related to the leak of CBSE Class 12 (Economics) paper after it arrested three people from Himachal Pradesh.

  
  
 Centre superintendent Rakesh, clerk Amit and peon Ashok of DAV School in Himachal Pradesh's Una district were arrested by the Crime Branch, a senior Delhi Police officer said.
 
 The three accused were brought to the national capital from Una and after questioning they were arrested, the officer said.
 
 Investigation into the case had revealed that the paper was leaked in handwritten form.
 
 
  
  
 Delhi Police special commissioner will be holding a press conference later today where he will be informing the media about the latest development in the case.
 
 On April 1, one Board official was suspended and three people were arrested by Delhi Police Crime Branch, including two teachers of a private school, for their involvement in the leak of the Class 12 paper.
 
 All the three - Rishabh (29) and Rohit (26), teachers at Mother Khajani Convent School, a private school in Bawana, and Tauqeer (26), a tutor at a private coaching centre there - were arrested, the police said.
 
 School Education Secretary Anil Swarup said that KS Rana, a CBSE official, has been suspended over laxity in supervising an examination centre in connection with the paper leaks.
 
 
  
  
 
 Following CBSE's announcement to conduct re-examination, students staged protests across the country against the Board's decision.
 
 Students studying in the school affiliated to the CBSE protested in front of its office in Capital's Preet Vihar. They demanded immediate action against the guilty, who leaked Class 12 Economics and Class 10 Mathematics papers. The students accused the Board of jeopardising their careers.
 
 Delhi Police formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of its Crime Branch to investigate the leak of papers.
 
 The SIT was formed after the CBSE registered two cases with the Crime Branch and registered two cases.
 
 The examination for Class 12 economics paper was held on March 26 and the exam for Class 10 maths was conducted on Wednesday, hours before the CBSE announced its decision to re-conduct the two examinations.
 
