HYDERABAD: With no food to eat or even a blanket to cover themselves with, about 2,000 Indian workers are suffering in   as they have not been paid wages by the company they have been working for more than a year now. In despair, many are contemplating suicide.

 The workers who are from different parts of India, including Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, are in a piquant situation. Their visas have expired while waiting for the infrastructure company —   — to settle the issue, which has not happened. They are even unable to go to hospitals in sickness as their stay has become illegal and if caught, they will be imprisoned.
 
 Restive workers of Kharafi National, a construction company in Kuwait, have been protesting day and night before the company office demanding they be given their due salaries and sent back to India.
 
 “I can only think of suicide. I haven’t been paid for the last 10 months and my stay here has become illegal. I have a lot of debts to repay in India,” said  , a worker. The workers said that the company told them it was not in a position to pay salaries as it doesn’t have projects to execute.
  
  
 As many as 45 workers are demonstrating before the office, carrying placards. The company has put them up in a camp, which is 60km away from office. “We do not have money to travel daily to the office to plead our case. The only thing we can do is sit here, sleep here and wait till our plea is considered. But no one seems to be bothered,” said 42-yearold Irfan  .
 
 Moved by their plight,  , a social worker in Kuwait, has been trying to provide food. “We requested a local gurudwara and they have come forward to assist us. There are many workers who have become suicidal and need help. I’ve been counselling them against taking any extreme step,”   told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 The company even has the workers’ passports, due to which they can’t leave Kuwait even if they decide to forego the dues. With the expiry of their visas, they also have to pay a fine for overstaying. “If I have to return home, I will have to pay ₹75,000 as fine. Where will I get it from? And if police arrest me for overstaying, I won’t ever be able to return to Kuwait for work,” said another worker.
 
