THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Two   have grabbed the show in the seventh annual   for 2017.

 L`ecole Chempaka and Holy Angels ISC school were among the 11 schools which were chosen for the awards, one of the country’s largest sustainability education programme for schools and colleges. It is designed to act as a catalyst for fostering excellence in sustainability thinking and action amongst youth.
 
 Participating school teams showcased their understanding of biodiversity and water, the themes for schools, through activities and essay submissions. 
 
 Teams from colleges submitted their entries on the themes of water, waste and mobility in the urban sustainability reporting format.
 
 For L`ecole Chempaka, the award means double joy as the students have bagged it for the consecutive year. “We had won the award in 2016 as well. It is the result of a year-long effort. Our students have been getting involved in pond rejuvenation and other activities in neighbouring areas. All these initiatives accounted for the award,” said  , principal, L'ecole Chempaka.
 
 As part of the research students collected water usage data at school level, which unravelled the water situation in their neighbourhood and in the city of Thiruvananthapuram. Megha Niranjana Nair, Gayathri Karthikeyan, Saraswati Vivek, Rohan Damodar and   represented the school in the competition.
 
 Pallavi Kailas, Meenakshi Sudheer, Jessica Sara Suresh and Alina represented Holy Angels ISC school and the teacher was Evangeline Sugunan. Holy Angels team did the project on biodiversity.
 
 In college category, two teams of IIM-Kozhikode bagged the award along with six other winners. The project of IIM-Kozhikode was on Kochi Metro’s comprehensive solution for the mobility issues in the city of Kochi. The IIM team was represented by Prashant Nair, Aravind R and Jimut Bahan Chakrabarty.
 
 For schools, the programme consists of two parts - one focused on encouraging a level of understanding of the themes through various activities detailed out in booklets. In the second part of the programme, the teams are asked to submit essays that conveyed the essence of their understanding of the chosen topic.
 
 The winning institutions will now be involved in a long-term continuous engagement programme, which will enable a deeper understanding of issues pertaining to sustainability. This joint, collaborative engagement brings the winning institutions, Wipro, and expert sustainability partners together. 
 
 The seventh edition of the annual   Earthian awards had received over 1,200 submissions from across the country. From these submissions, an independent jury recognized eleven school and eight college teams as winning entries.
 
 
