GURUGRAM: Acting tough on the negligent attitude of government officials, chief minister   on Saturday suspended two officials and ordered filing of chargesheet against two others, including an executive engineer.

 The CM also announced any excess property tax collected by   from residents would be refunded with interest that “will be recovered from erring officials”.
 
 “The state government will soon formulate a policy to refund the excess amount with interest,” he said, while presiding over a meeting of the district grievances committee in the city. 
 
 And on the grievances of the residents of sectors along NH-8 about the increasing dust and noise pollution due to continuous movement of vehicles on the high-speed corridor, Khattar announced that a plantation drive would be carried out during the monsoon season on both the sides of the   expressway. 
 
 Officials said a patwari (land officer) with the department of town and country planning (DTCP) in Gurgaon was placed under suspension for turning a blind eye to the re-development of an illegal colony in Bhorakala area of Patuadi.
 
 Multiple complaints have been filed at CM Window against the illegal colony. “The district town planner (enforcement), in his report, had mentioned that the illegal colony was removed from the area in 2014-15, but it was developed again. Patwari Sombir, who was responsible for the area, was found guilty of not alerting the department against the re-development of the illegal colony,” a senior official of DTCP told TOI.
 
 After suspending the patwari, Khattar ordered deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh to investigate the role of the area tehshildar. He also directed Singh to check the records of the past six months of all the tehshildars of Gurgaon. “Action will be taken against official if found to be ignorant,” the CM said.
 
 Similarly, a junior engineer of the Haryana State Agriculture Development Board was suspended for poor construction of road from Basantput to Kapriwar village. 
 
 Khattar also ordered the filing of a chargesheet against the sub-divisional officer and the executive engineer of the board, while hearing a complaint filed by Farukhnagar Market Committee chairman Virendra Yadav.
 
 “Also blacklist the contractor, if he’s found guilty of poor construction,” said Khattar. Yadav has alleged that the road, which was constructed at a cost of Rs 2.20 crore, broke down within two months.
 
 Encroachment on a 4,086 square yard land in   village was also taken up for hearing in the meeting. Gurgaon police informed the CM that an FIR had been registered in the case and accused Ram Singh was arrested. A total of 27 issues were discussed at the meeting. On the issues related to encroachment on government land, Khattar directed officials to demarcate the same and remove squatters.
 
 
  
 
 The CM told officials on Saturday municipal corporations were free to decide on weekly closure of meat shops and could unanimously pass a resolution to close them once a week. The issue of meat shops was raised by a nominated member of the grievances committee. MCG has given 129 meat shop licences that are valid till March 31 and will be renewed from April 1. The CM said the number of licences should not be increased. An official explained this instruction pertained to shops selling mutton and chicken where slaughter is done, which is permitted only because MCG does not have a designated slaughterhouse yet. “We don’t want more roadside shops, which operate in an unhygienic manner and may also cause health problems to citizens,” a senior MCG official said, adding the corporation was taking action to check unauthorised slaughter and sale of meat. The state government made it mandatory for meat shops to get a licence to operate in May 2017. MCG started giving licences to meat shops after that. In the last six months, 60 shops operating without licences have been sealed. 
 
 
