JAISALMER: An idol of goddess   at a government senior higher secondary school was desecrated by unidentified people, leading to tension in a Barmer village. The incident occurred on May 17 but a complaint in this regard was filed on Monday.

 
 The incident is of Jasai village where some anti-social elements damaged the idol of goddess Saraswati on May 17 after which villagers gave a memorandum to Barmer SP and demanded strict action against the culprits. Villagers levelled charges against school headmaster   that he was allowing people of his community to spoil the atmosphere of the school.
 
 Barmer SP   said a case has been lodged against unidentified people and police are investigating the matter. He said villagers have given him a memorandum in which they have complained against the school headmaster.
 
 In the memorandum to the SP, the villagers said on May 17, a few anti-social elements caused damage to the idol and threw it outside. The miscreants also shouted slogans of   and wrote slogans in the school. They also damaged the plaque and put paint on the name of the donors. Villagers said that in this regard the headmaster was apprised about the incident but he did not take any action against the culprits. Villagers alleged that headmaster is supporting the anti-social elements and is helping them. The headmaster in his defence kept the broken idol back in the school.
 
 On getting information, police reached the spot and instead of taking action against the anti-social elements, are threatening to trap people in fake cases. The memorandum stated that in the school premises, liquor parties are held and people sit and gamble. They alleged that the headmaster is supporting all these activities.
 
 Villagers added that the headmaster provoked the miscreants to break the idol. They said all these activities have hurt their feelings and there is resentment in the entire village. Villagers also warned that if timely action is not taken against the culprits then villagers will launch agitation for which police and district administration will be responsible.
 
