NEW DELHI: Two   of  , who were convicted and   to 20 years in jail for blackmailing and   their college mate, will have to remain behind bars during the pendency of their appeal in the Punjab and Haryana high court, the Supreme Court said on Thursday.

 A bench of Justices S A Bobde and L Nageswara Rao, which had earlier stayed the HC order granting them bail, said its order would be in operation during the pendency of the appeal but asked HC to decide the case expeditiously within five months. The court, however, made an exception for the third convict, sentenced to a seven-year jail term, to remain out on bail.
 
 In an unusual order, the HC had granted bail to three convicts —Hardik Sikri, Karan Chabra and Vikas Garg — and observed that the survivor’s statement offered an alternative conclusion of “misadventure stemming from a promiscuous attitude and a voyeuristic mind". It had ordered counselling of the trio at All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) “for correcting their behavioural aberration”.
 
 Challenging the order of the HC, the rape survivor approached the apex court which had stayed operation of the court order and sent the convicts behind bars. The apex court expressed surprise on how could the HC grant them bail after conviction, particularly when all three had been in jail during trial.
 
 A trial court court in Sonepat had in March last year awarded a 20-year sentence each to Hardik and Karan and a seven-year jail term to Vikas, holding them guilty of blackmailing and gang-raping the student for about two years. A complaint was lodged by the girl student with the university administration on April 11, 2015, alleging that the trio— final year law students of the university— have been blackmailing and raping her since August 2013. She also alleged that the accused were in possession of her objectionable photos and they used to threaten her that the photos would be circulated on the internet. The survivor alleged that she was was being blackmailed and forced to keep physical relations with them.
 
 While releasing the three convicts on bail, the high court had said, “The testimony of the victim does offer an alternative story of casual relationship with her friends, acquaintances, adventurism and experimentation in sexual encounters and these factors would therefore, offer compelling reasons to consider the prayer for suspension of sentence favourably, particularly when the accused themselves are young and the narrative does not throw up gut wrenching violence, that normally precede or accompany such incidents.”
 
 
