Calling family members, booking a cab, escorting commuters out of the   stations, and even dropping them back home are some of the new additions to the duties of   personnel at Delhi’s Metro stations, thanks to drunk commuters. Although there is no specific rule that denies entry in the Metro station to  , CISF personnel say that they are quite clear that if a commuter is not in his/ her senses, they will not be allowed to board the Metro.

  In the last three months, the CISF has refused entry to 38 drunk passengers in the Metro. Not just that, several drunk passengers were also deboarded for creating a ruckus in the Metro. Even though they don’t have breathalyzers, CISF officials say that it isn’t difficult to spot heavily drunk commuters, even though they try to mask the smell by chewing gum or spraying themselves with deodorants. Sometimes, the jawans are even serenaded or given compliments by drunk passengers!
 
  
  Picture for representational purposes only
 
  
 One might think that acting sober will help them fool the CISF, but it doesn’t. “Sometimes, heavily drunk people try to act sober and even spray deodorant or use peppermint chewing gums to avoid getting caught. But even though we don’t have a machine to detect alcohol, the experience we have gathered over the years helps us spot them,” the CISF personnel tell us.
 
  A CISF official posted at the   says, “Pata toh chal jaata hai. People who are heavily drunk, mostly avoid making any eye contact, and sometimes smile and greet for no particular reason. Some even behave weirdly in an attempt to act sober. Once, a man said, “Aap hamari suraksha ke liye hain, aapse co-operate karna toh hamara dharm hai. And he kept talking while the people waiting in line behind him started laughing. So it’s quite obvious in such cases.”
 
  
  
 
  
 The CISF officials say that they now do a lot of work that has nothing to do with the role of metro security. A CISF personnel, who was on duty during the   incident, when the CISF had to drop a drunk woman commuter, said, “That woman came around 10.30pm and was at the station till 11.30pm. When we called her husband, he didn’t agree to come to Samaypur Badli, he asked us to drop her at Hauz Khas. We had a vehicle, so we dropped her to Hauz Khas. But usually, we just book a cab for the drunk person and inform a family member.” 
 
  He adds, “One day, when we asked a drunk man to come to the DMRC office, he called the PCR because he thought that he has been detained. These are just some unusual cases that get the spotlight. On a daily basis, we have to deal with a number of drunk commuters who misbehave, abuse and even act funny!”
 
 
  
  
 
  
 A senior CISF official tells us, “A few months back, two drunk girls came to board the Metro around 11pm. They went to a CISF personnel and told him that they wanted to sing a song. When we insisted that both of them take the train, they got disappointed and said that nobody wants to listen to their songs. It didn’t happen just once, many drunk commuters usually come to us to share their jokes and songs, and get disappointed when we refuse. Kabhi-kabhi sunn bhi lete hain, ab kya karein!”
 
 
  
  
 
  
 The CISF personnel say that there’s no dearth of women commuters who won’t stop gushing about a good-looking CISF jawan. A CISF personnel tells us, “It never happened with me, but I have heard a number of stories when drunk women commuters would give compliments to a good-looking jawan. It doesn’t happen only with drunk ones though!”
 
  
 Another CISF personnel says, “Recently, a group of drunk men came to board the train around 11pm in the night, and we suspected they must have taken something else as well because they were out of their senses. We spoke to their parents and they asked us to drop them to a Metro station. A group of CISF personnel had to go with them in the train because they were so abusive. They started hurling abuses at us. We can ignore, but other commuters won’t. So we formed a circle around them so that they couldn’t see other commuters.”
 
  
 A CISF personnel says, “When we stop commuters from boarding the train they think that they are being banned from boarding the Metro and refuse to go to the exit gate. A female commuter once asked if she will be banned from the Metro forever, just because she’s drunk. She said, ‘Maine to suna nahin ki party karne ke baad aap Metro mein nahi jaa sakte. It’s my right to board the Metro.’ She was so out of control that she refused to listen to us, and then we had to call her family members. They had to take her home in the Metro because she didn’t agree to take a cab even with them.”
 
  A CISF official posted at   adds, “Mostly, drunk commuters are caught on Friday and Saturday nights. But on weekdays, it’s mostly between 10 to 11pm. Someone travels in a drunk state, abuses others and another passenger shoots a video. Then people say there’s no security. So it’s better to stop a passenger during the security check before he creates a scene in the Metro.”
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
