NAGPUR: The forest department informed the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Thursday that it would be tranquillizing the Yavatmal problem tigress, and would take safe custody of her two cubs. The division bench comprising justices   and   then adjourned the matter till March 14.

 The court was hearing a suo motu PIL along with one filed by Dr   on the issue, based on media reports that the forest department had decided to shoot the problem tigress that had reportedly killed over 10 persons in Yavatmal. The suo motu PIL was based on a letter by Mumbai-based dentist Dr Sarita Subramaniyam, where   was made amicus curiae while Tushar Mandlekar is counsel for the petitioner in the other plea.
 
 Deputy conservator of forests (DCF) in Pandharkawda, Kasipalayam Abharna, filed an affidavit that the problem tigress T1 had attacked humans outside the protected area and her identity was ascertained. He informed that earlier orders to shoot her had lapsed, and they had come out with a new one to tranquillize her. He added that innumerable lives were at risk everyday, as the tigress continues to move freely around the inhabited Pandharkawda area. About 10 people have been killed on private and forest land of Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM).
 
 “The directives to tranquillize tigress and capturing the two cubs were issued by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) on March 1. The orders issued by the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) were only to tranquillize the animal and entire procedure is in compliance with the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972,” he said.
 
 Abharna said the tigress’ identity was ascertained based on evidence from DNA reports, camera traps, pugmarks, eyewitness statements, post mortem reports, and baiting records. The animal was present at the site of some human attacks.
 
 According to him, the NTCA issued guidelines in 2013 on sedating and capturing a wild animal and subsequent release into the wild. Setting up a special committee has been mandated to ascertain whether the animal will be able to survive in the wild with its hunting behaviour. This is done to ensure that the animal does not roam into human habitat again.
 
 
