KOZHIKODE: IUML leader and practising lawyer in   C   has approached the   women’s commission (KWC) seeking remedial measures to make divorced men pay the maintenance awarded by the courts to their ex-wives.

 Shukkur said there are plenty of cases of women who had been left in the lurch after the husbands go abroad once the courts awarded alimony. “I have dealt with more than 30 such cases in   and there could be much more. These women have been struggling hard to make both ends meet even though the courts have ordered their ex-husbands to pay maintenance,” he said.
 
 
 “One case I am handling now is that of a woman whose ex-husband is in the Gulf. The court had ordered him to pay Rs7,000 as alimony per month around four years ago. Recently, he came and gave Rs 30,000 to the woman. I am told that he is married for the fourth time and is settled in the  ,” Shukkur said. The lawyer said there was no provision in the law to issue notices at the airports about the violators of the court order as it was not a criminal case. “The magistrate or the family court judge have no power to impound the passport. So, I have requested the women’s commission member   to find some legal mechanism so that the issue is addressed,” he said.
 
 As per the Domestic Violence Act, a specific amount can bedeductedfrom thesalary of the person, which can be given to the woman. “The Indian embassies should be asked to take the lead in the process. The government can send the certified copy of the court order to the embassy concerned and servicesof the departments like the Norka could be roped in for settling the cases,” he said.
 
 “The issue is not confined to any community or religion and it is not an issue between a man and woman. This has large ramifications as most of the women are finding it hard to live or even educate their children,” he said.
 
 Shukkur has also urged the commission to ensure a protocol inside the labour room of the hospitals as there are many complaints about the behaviour of the nurses and the attendants. “There are complaints of using filthy language by the staff,” he said.
 
 “I am told that a minor girl, who was a victim of sexual assault, was treated harshly by the staff when she was brought for delivery. The victim has every right to uphold her dignity. Shahida Kamal has promised to look into these issues seriously as these are matters that deny a decent life for women,” he said.
 
