LUCKNOW: A week before the  , the government has already crossed its target of Rs 1 lakh crore  . Although industrial development minister   confirmed on Monday that   worth Rs 75,000 crore had already been signed, sources in the department revealed that the total value of 391 MoU inked so far could be much more that Rs 1lakh crore as due diligence on many of them was still being done. “Now, we have set our sight on Rs 2 lakh croremark,” says a senior official.

 “The highest number of MoUs have been signed in the agriculture and food processing sector, followed by infrastructure development and MSMEs. We are expecting these MoUs to result in creation of lakhs of jobs,” said a senior government official.
 
 The investors’ summit is being touted as the biggest push to investments in the state so far. While previous governments have also held similar summits, the conversion rate of MoUs has reportedly been less than 20%.
 
 This time, the government says that all efforts are being made to ensure that investors find it easy and productive to honour their commitments. About 6,700 potential investors and participants have already registered themselves till Monday evening when registrations were closed.
 
 However, the department clarified that those interested in signing MoUs with the government were still welcome to attend the summit. “There are some among the delegates, and also those who have signed MoUs, who may not be serious about implementing those. We are, at this point, trying to discourage the non-serious people from attending since we have space constraints,” said an official.
 
 As part of beautification drive for UP Investors’ Summit 2018, artists from Delhi Street Art have painted photos of eminent personalities, cultural heritage buildings on a flyover adjacent to the venue
 
 ‘State govt focussing on agriculture sector’
 
 Infrastructure and industrial development commissioner Anup Chandra Pandey said that the government had studied industrial policies of other states before drafting its own. “We identified growth sectors and framed sector specific policies. In UP, agriculture is the biggest sector and therefore, agro processing is an important focus area for us. Next are the medium and small scale industries, followed by the textile and handloom sectors. UP has around 4 crore handloom weavers. Noida and Greater Noida have also been identified as electronic and IT hubs and the government will encourage investment in these areas accordingly,” he said.
 
 The summit will be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and attended by President Ram Nath Kovind, finance minister Arun Jaitley and various other Union ministers who will also chair sessions.
 
 
