MUMBAI: An insurance blanket alone may not suffice to better the   of the 10 crore poor Indian families who have been promised a cover of Rs 5 lakh under the   (NHPS), announced in the budget 2018-19. Unless backed by a tight regulation of the insurance sector, overall improvement of living conditions and disease prevention, such a scheme could actually be far from effective.

 Speaking to TOI at the sidelines of   summit on Tuesday,  ,   of   (NHS), said France and Germany, that run two of the world’s most successful universal healthcare insurance-backed schemes, spend 10%-12% of their GDPs on health. “In Germany, the insurance sector is tightly regulated,” he said.
 
 India, in comparison, invests less than 2% of its GDP in healthcare and the insurance sector is relatively under-regulated, a point that experts have been harping upon to question the sustainability of NHPS. Grant, who represents one of the world’s biggest publicly-run health systems, cautioned that emphasis on insurance should go hand in hand with strengthening primary care and prevention.
 
 “When people talk about insurance they tend to think of acute diseases. But for society as a whole, it’s far better to think of prevention,” he said, adding that several illnesses that are a product of lifestyle or environmental reasons, including contaminated drinking water, poor sanitation and air quality, can be prevented. “It’s difficult to look at a universal healthcare model without ensuring better living conditions for the population,” he said.
 
 Grant termed primary health centres the “foundation” that made NHS a success story over the past 70 years, but acknowledged that the 1948 model of a single GP was increasingly being challenged. “There is a great concern that a GP won’t be able to pick up a particular type of cancer that he/she may see once in few years. So, one of the remedies is to get more specialists into primary care,” he suggested. But, in terms of transformation and digital innovation, primary health centres in the UK, are at the forefront. “Almost all are digitized and efforts are being made to take that information-sharing to the level of secondary care.” 
 
 Grant has led a delegation of 14 trusts, hospitals and companies that are looking into potential collaborations and sharing innovations in the health sector with India. Several companies made a pitch to public health minister Deepak Sawant on Tuesday. Sawant said, “We are looking for innovations that can help us with better health delivery through telecommunication and aid in infection control.” As for adopting the central health scheme, Sawant said they were waiting for finer details to emerge.
 
 On the ongoing NHS crisis in England, where people recently took to the streets to protest, Grant said it was mainly because people were unhappy about the government funding. “US president Donald Trump said NHS was no good, but people actually love it,” he said.
 
 
