NAGPUR: Gadchiroli, an underdeveloped district of Vidarbha with heavy Naxalite presence which affects the daily lives of the people and more so of those living in interior areas, is surely witnessing change. All that happens around does not deter the spirit of the students living in there and education does not take a back seat when faced with the struggles for everyday existence.

 
 
 
 A student of  , Kishan Partani, the probable  , scored 93.23% in science stream. He believes hard work and regular studying to be his success mantra. “I was expecting a good score but I was surprised when I got to know I was the district topper,” said Partani. His parents had expected him to score well and motivated to do better. His father Rajesh is a businessman and mother Mamta is a housewife. 
 
 Kishan said, “I enjoy playing cricket but I had to reduce the amount of time I spent playing because I had to devote my time and attention towards studies this year.” He aspires to pursue computer science engineering because of his interest and flair in it. He plans to move to Pune for higher studies.
 
 Another college from the district whose students brought laurels was Lok Biradari Jr College. Sannu Muhanda secured highest percentage by scoring 68.61 %. 
 
 Aniket Amte, whose family runs the school, said, “All students are dedicated towards their goals, although they belong to poor families but they have big dreams.” All the students from Lok Biradari Junior College stay in an ‘ashram’ since childhood and they are very disciplined and focused towards their studies. Amte also mentioned, “The students have stayed with us since Std I, and now that they have cleared   with flying colours we are all really proud of them.’’
 
 A couple of hours away from the college is   (Kurkheda taluka) and students here too performed well. Kamlesh Sahare, who secured 55.07%, said, “I cycle to school eight km to and fro. What motivates me is the urge to study and do better so that I may have a bright future. I aim to get into the medical field and I have appeared for the NEET and CET. My parents are farmers and I hope to provide them with a better lifestyle someday.” 
 
 Principal Rajabhau Thakare said, “Most of the students who come to study here are from villages that are at least 5-10 km away. Even if the students face hardships while coming, they are very persevering and are fiercely determined to complete their education. It is interesting to see more girls coming to study and so we provide adequate facilities for their comfort. Our timings are also such that facilitate more attendance, college starts at 11am and ends at 4pm.” 
 
 He said even though the area has a heavy Naxal presence, it does not deter the students but reinforces their will to study.
 
 
