

 What inspired this column was a dear friend’s simple observation. One day, I saw this friend gesticulating madly and blabbering to himself while pacing up and down the reception bay of the office. There was no one in front of him, he wasn’t holding a phone, and didn’t have any earphones on. I figured out later that he was having a simple conversation on the phone. He had used his smartwatch to activate voice assistance, which dialed a call from his smartphone (tucked inside his jacket). He received the call through his ‘smart’ wireless headset (hidden behind his earlobes).
 
 The interesting part is that he never felt the need to either take out his phone or look at his screen to do any of this. The smartwatch, the smartphone and the smart wireless headset were all connected and ‘talking’ to each other over the internet, controlled by an internet voice-enabled interface. 
 
 Now, couple this with a digital wallet feature, which operates with a voice-enabled command over near-field communication (NFC) stickers (so that we don’t have to hold the phone near a card reader), and voila! We’re in a world where we can hear and send text messages and emails, book cabs, movie tickets and airline tickets, pay utility bills, shop for clothes, books, accessories and even groceries, through simple voice commands. Without once having to look at the phone.
 
 Welcome to the world of the  .
 
 With screens getting bigger, and   becoming even smarter, a lot of activities that we once performed on a tablet or a laptop are now easily doable on our phones. It’s wellknown that the bulk of all digital   is done using a ‘mobile first approach’. When we can do all of this and more through simple voice commands without looking at phone screens, we’ll be inhabiting a world called ‘Zero User Interface’.
 
 So, the big question that should bother every marketer is, ‘How on earth are brands going to advertise to consumers in a Zero UI world?’
 
 Here’s a naïve advertising guy’s perspective. History repeats itself. Not just in fashion and pop culture but in advertising and marketing as well. In the coming years, there will be a greater need to use ‘live’ product experiences to build brands. And this can be done in four simple ways:
 
 Brand affinity at the point of consumption: The product is not just for consumption. It also becomes the biggest vehicle for its adve-rtisement. Think of it. You buy an interactive pack of noodles, whose packaging talks back to you, informing you about not just new schemes, offers and discounts but also new communication as well. This is all played back to you either through voice or augmented reality (AR). Pernod Ricard has already started experiments in this space (with Absolut connected bottles). Oral B smart toothbrushes with connected apps are today providing instructions on oral hygiene. Tomorrow, nothing will stop them from doing brand communication.
 
 Unique brand experiences at brand-owned real estate: These can be exclusive or multi brand outlets (or even shelves). Any and every brand engagement, right from classical product sampling to ‘new age’, and created through sight, touch, feel or even hand gestures and heat sensors, will go a long way towards creating brand affinity. And therefore, helping activate purchases. From NFC-stickered point-of-sale material that talks back to customers and QR-coded shopping shelves to shopping trolleys tagged with radio frequency identification (RFID), the future of offline shopping promises to be way more interactive.
 
 Ambient media, creative installations and out-of-home (OOH) advertising: In a ‘zero screen’ world, physical touchpoints are going to be high-ticket real estate. So, every possible physical medium that the consumer engages with would be leveraged to engage with him/her. Right from interactive hoardings like the British Airways’ ‘Magic of Flying’ campaign and BMW’s Munich headquarters being lit up like a battery (commemorating 100,000 electrified cars sold in 2017), to the ‘virtual march’ in Madrid (the world’s first hologram protest) and paintings that talk back to viewers (IBM Watson’s Voice of Art project), expect outdoor and ambient media innovations to take off exponentially.
 
 E-com marketplaces as the biggest search engines: Artificial Intelligence algorithms of e-com marketplaces will narrow the set of buying options for the consumer, based on a set of signals that infer his/her preferences (such as previous transactions, weather forecasts, shopping patterns and seasonal effects). By limiting choices from a random search to a more relevant assortment, these algorithms will streamline and even, in future, impact decision-making. So, the top e-com marketplaces in any given geography will be the key search engines for almost every kind of product discovery, knowledge or information.
 
 Neuroscience has long proved that as humans, it’s natural for us to interact with our voices, for we feel most comfortable when doing so. Voice Enabled Internet of Things, then, is the future. As the world becomes more and more ‘zero screen’, brands will go from creating engagement on virtual (digital) media to fashioning human engagements through physical assets.
 
 (The author is Head of Brand Strategy, Cheil)
 
 
