COIMBATORE:The vegetable market in   is witnessing a high inflow of carrots. Merchants said the volume was higher than what was in the recent years.

 
 Usually during May, the market would see an inflow of 500 to 1,000 bags of carrots a day, said K  , a wholesaler. “But this year, around 3,000 bags of carrots have been coming daily,” he told TOI.
 
 One bag would have 70kg of carrots on average. So in the recent weeks, the market has been seeing an inflow of around 2 lakh kilograms, which was unprecedented as far as he knew, said Hakkeem, who has been trading vegetables for the last 15 years. From the Mettupalayam market, carrots are sent to markets across Tamil Nadu and Kerala.
 
 While the copious summer rainfall has ensured good carrot harvest in the  , from where carrots reach the Mettupalayam market, farmers said they had also increased the acreage of carrots as they had seen good profit from the crop last season. A kilogram of carrot was sold for as high as Rs 70 last year, said  , a carrot farmer from M Palada in the Nilgiris. “The good price led several farmers to increase their carrot cultivation area by reducing the area for other vegetables such as beetroot and potatoes,” he said. Ramesh himself had increased carrot plantation from five acres last year to 10 this year.
 
 “Also, we received a good yield this time. There has been a 10% increase in yield per acre. Usually, we would harvest around 250 bags from an acre. This year we have harvested 300 bags,” Ramesh said.
 
 On the flip side, the boom has resulted in drastic price fall. Compared to last year, carrot price has dipped down to Rs 15 to Rs 20, say farmers and merchants. “While we invested heavily in the crop, the high production has turned adverse and has hit the prices,” said P Raju, a carrot farmer from Lovedale in the Nilgiris.
 
 The area under carrot cultivation in the Nilgiris has significantly increased over the last five years, said officials of the horticulture department. “Now carrots are cultivated in around 2,500 hectares, which is a 50% to 60% increase from what was five years ago,” said an official. “Potato cultivation area has come down and carrots have taken over. Several farmers thought they could at least get back what they had invested if they cultivate carrots,” the official added.
 
 However, farmers said if they had better logistics and marketing opportunities, they could see better returns.
 
