JAIPUR: With only seven months remaining for the assembly elections, the BJP government constituted standing committees of   (JMC) on Thursday. The step will infuse confidence among the party’s councillors as the   released a list of 22 committees along with names of chairpersons and members.

 It is expected that since chairpersons of the committees have been announced, the problems of people will be addressed in a better way. “The committees were lying defunct for a long time. In the absence of committees, works were not being done as required. Now, as the committees have been formed, it will generate more revenue for the JMC and will also provide pace for works which should be done for the welfare of the people and for the city,” said Pawan Arora, director and ex-officio joint secretary, local bodies, Rajasthan.
 
 
  
 
 The JMC has constituted a women uplifting committee for the first time. It will take up issues related to women and work for the upliftment of women in the city. Kusum Yadav will be its chairperson and it will have nine members.
 
 Besides, a separate committee has also been formed for rain water harvesting and conservation committee with   as its chairperson along with nine other members.
 
 Each committee has 10 councillors, one as chairperson and nine as its members.
 
 The standing committees were formed first at the time of former mayor  . After his removal around two years ago, the committees were lying defunct.
 
 However,   has termed these committees as illegal. “These are illegal committees. The chairperson of committees formed during former Mayor Nirmal Nahata have not submitted their resignations,” said Congress councillors Umar Daraz.
 
 “I have been given the responsibility of chairperson of garden development and environment. During Nirmal Nahata’s tenure, I was holding the same post. Also, I was elected councillors in 2004 when   was the mayor, I was the chairperson of the same committee,” said Vimlesh Meena, chairperson, garden development and environment committee. 
 
 Moreover, three different committees have also been formed for electricity and public places lighting. “Since the city has grown and its size has increased, there is a need for three different committees for three different areas of the city. JMC’s 91 wards have been divided into three. One electricity committee headed by Maan Pandit will take care of wards one to 31. Chairperson of electricity committee for wards 32 to 60 will be Chandra Bhatia and Rajesh Bishal for ward 61 to 91,” a JMC source said.
 
 
  
 
