MYSURU: The water in river   is not as bad as assumed by  , a report suggested recently.

 Cauvery is the lifeline of major cities in the state, including Bengaluru, Mandya and Mysuru. It also caters to the need of more than 600 villages in South Karnataka.
 
 A report prepared by the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) under the Global Environment Monitoring System (GEMS) and Monitoring of Indian National Aquatic Resources System (MINARS) for April-2017 to March-2018 revealed that the   water quality falls under the category C.
 
 Category C water can be used for drinking purposes with conventional treatment followed by disinfection. However, compared to the Cauvery, the Kabini water quality is poor as it falls under category D.
 
 According to the report, the Cauvery water samples were collected from 21 stations, including KRS dam, Kushalnagar, Napoklu Bridge and Ranganathittu, every month and tested. In all the months, the quality of the water remained the same and stood in category C.
 
 Water quality of the Hemavati river, one of the major tributaries of the Cauvery, is also good. According to the report, it is also classified under category C. But contrary to this, the Kabini, another tributary, has been classified under D and E categories. Water under these two categories is not fit for drinking purpose.
 
  
 
 
 The report also pointed out that the quality of Arkavati river’s water, too, is very poor. The board had tested Arkvavati’s water samples from T G Halli Reservoir, Kanakapura, and Hesaraghatta Reservoir. The quality of water samples collected from T G Halli reservoir and Kanakapura were classified under E category.
 
 E category water can be used for irrigation, industrial cooling and controlled waste disposal.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Lakshman, chairman, state pollution control board, attributed multiple reasons to the improvement in quality of Cauvery’s water. “The water quality was substandard years ago. But now it has improved. Good rainfall this Monsoon season, increase in awareness among the general public, stringent measures followed by local bodies while releasing effluents are the major reasons for this. I hope we will be able to maintain the quality,” he said.
 
 
