Mostly during midnight, driver J   goes out to collect leftover food from functions to feed the hungry on   streets

 J Prabhu, 53, a driver by profession, has been feeding street dwellers for the past one decade in Trichy. Collecting the leftover food from functions and marriages he takes it to the hungry on the streets and keeps himself busy always.
 
 Prabhu took to the service voluntarily a decade ago after he found that a lot of food was being wasted by people after functions such as marriages. The idea of feeding the hungry with this leftover food struck him and he has been dedicating his free time to feed the hungry with the excess food, which would otherwise go as waste.
 
 “I came across people wasting huge quantity of cooked food after marriage functions. The scenes made me think of serving platform dwellers with that food. There is a lot of support from people around and I am continuing it enthusiastically,” Prabhu told ToI.
 
 Prabhu found time to fulfil his dream service whenever he gets call from donors, even though he is busy with his profession as a driver. Because of his nature of job, he had to restrict collecting food from within the city limits.
 
 Prabhu is available for the service from 1pm to 5pm and 7pm to throughout the night. Most of the time, the donors will call him after 10pm to take the leftover food in functions held in their residences. “On getting the call, I rush to the place with some vessels in my two-wheeler. After collecting the food, I go to the street dwellers and serve them,” he said.
 
 Mostly, the food service would happen around midnight. He mentioned of a large number of people staying as attendants in Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy. Fathima Church in Puthur, Railway junction, and Melapudhur are some of the places where people wait for him for food.
 
 Besides the excess food, Prabhu also had four donors who provide fresh food packs during auspicious days every month. Whenever he was out of station, he used to pass the message to his visually-challenged friend who will collect the food for the inmates in his care home near Trichy international airport.
 
 The service-minded Prabhu also faces humiliation from the donors often. “On reaching the spot, I will ask them to give the food at the earliest so that I can serve the people at least before 12 midnight. Some of the donors used to yell at me to wait for some time. But I stay cool because my anger will spoil a chance for the poor to taste good food,” said Prabhu who enjoyed the support from his family for his service.
 
 
