JAIPUR: The quick-paced life and the practicality of modern day cooking ware and utensils may have kept earthen pots, cups, plates, glasses, handi, etc. away from our households even as their wholesome impact on human health has never been in question. But, now they are making a second coming riding on the growing health conscious people, while bringing with them nostalgia of the olden days.

 
  
 
 The emerging opportunities in the shift in lifestyle are not lost on the Rajasthan government as it seeks to provide gainful livelihood alternatives to local artisans in rural areas.
 
 “We have started work on a training centre at Kuchaman city in Nagaur district. This will have capacity to train 100 artisans. Machines, equipment and other facilities will be in place soon and we will operationalize the centre in the next two months. Besides kitchenware, we will also promote sculpture, and various clay art forms,” said Harish Kumawat, state minister, who was made chairman of the Shilp Mitti Kala (Terracotta) Board (SMKB).
 
 SMKB was first formed in 2008, but remained on papers without an office, staff, budget and board members. But now it’s functional and implementing a scheme for potters, carpenters, show-makers announced in the state budget this year. As part of the scheme, the state government is providing the artisans loans up to Rs 2 lakh with complete interest waiver.
 
 “After training, we will expose the artisans to various exhibitions happening in the country so that they can find buyers and also learn from the exposures. We will handhold them and bear their expanses to encourage their participation,” added Kumawat.
 
 The popularity of   is also reflected in the way e-commerce platforms are warming up to the segment. Unheard of earlier, earthen articles like pressure cooker and tawa is also available on these sites commanding even a bigger price.
 
 “People go back to old ways because there is a reason for it. Lab tests conducted by us show that food cooked in pressure cooker has less vitamins and minerals than one finds in clay containers,” said  , chairman of   which is helping SMKB in the initiative.
 
 Bikaner may be the first starting point for the board but it has an elaborate strategy to spread the scheme in the entire state of Rajasthan.
 
 “We will create committees in all districts and make sure that artisans having interest in pottery, terracotta handicrafts will get a change to advance their pursuits while creating a sustainable source of livelihood,” added Kumawat.
 
 
