PANAJI: The government will set up a separate ward for children at the Institute of   and Human Behaviour ( ), Bambolim.

 A letter dated October 4 from the IPHB to the directorate of women and child development states that the separate ward with be a part of the proposed 100-bed IPHB block. To be constructed through Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC), the work on the project will commence shortly, an official said.
 
 NGOs working for the welfare of children in Goa had been persistently demanding that children not be placed among adults while being treated at the institute. They had raised an alarm when children lodged at Apna Ghar, most of whom have had a run-in with the law and are known troublemakers, were routinely referred to the IPHB. At times, a Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) also refer cases to the institute, he said.
 
 The request was also a part of the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by NGO SCAN before the high court of Bombay at Goa. 
 
 Since children from Apna Ghar are referred to the IPHB for violent behaviour, he said, they are mostly kept under observation. As there is no ward for children, they are kept among adult patients who have serious mental disorders.
 
 “We have been insisting that a separate ward be created at GMC because it is unhealthy for children to be left among adults who have serious mental disorders. There is a possibility that children who are already violent or disturbed may imitate the adult patients,” said an NGO member.
 
 A source said that some children indulge in substance abuse but once they are admitted at Apna Ghar their access is blocked, albeit temporarily. At such times, they show withdrawal symptoms and turn violent. “To avoid any problems such children are send to IPHB,” he said. 
 
 In the last few years, there have been repeated incidences of violence at Apna Ghar. Children have escaped from the home after doing considerable damage to infrastructure.
 
 This year itself, there have been four such incidences. Until the new facility is ready, which may take a year or more, some temporary arrangements need to be made, he said.
 
 
