DARBHANGA: Women can be empowered only through education, governor-cum-chancellor Satya Pal Malik said at the convocation of Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU) at Darbhanga on Sunday. 

 Besides providing gold medals to the toppers of different subjects in postgraduate courses, the chancellor awarded the degree of doctor of science (honoris causa) to Manas Bihari Verma, a native of Darbhanga and recipient of Padma Shri award this year. Verma was awarded the degree for his contribution in structuring supersonic fighter plane Tejas. Verma was associated with Aeronautical Development Agency, which developed Tejas. 
 
 Noted Bhojpuri singer Sharda Sinha, who was also conferred with Padma Vibhushan this year, was awarded DLitt (honoris causa) for her contribution to folk songs and music. Sinha retired as a music teacher from Women’s College Samastipur in 2017. Sinha was not present in the convocation ceremony. Pratibha Gupta, faculty member in the postgraduate department of English, was the lone recipient of DLitt in any subject in the convocation.
 
 LNMU VC S K Singh said several job-oriented courses have been introduced in the university. “The university and its 34 constituent colleges have already been accredited by NAAC. Local C M Science College has got A grade. Academic calendar has been introduced and being adhered to. “All academic sessions will be regularized by July,” the VC said.
 
 Malik said after joining as governor of  , his first meeting was with the vice-chancellors and a decision was taken to prepare academic calendar in the universities and adhere to it. “Attendance of teachers is now being done through biometric system and classrooms will soon be under the surveillance of CCTV cameras. Some universities have already introduced biometric system. Another major work has been is to hold students’ union elections. Many universities have already conducted the election and some are in the process,” Malik said, adding he would soon call a meeting of the office-bearers of newly elected students’ unions and their respective VCs at Raj Bhavan.
 
 The chancellor said each university would also hold state-level common entrance test for admission in BEd colleges under their respective jurisdictions.
 
 State education minister Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma and Rani Lakhsmi Bai Central Agricultural University, Jhansi, chancellor Panjab Singh were also present on the occasion.
 
 
