NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court has ordered   before he could   the minimum prescribed punishment of seven years in jail.

 Justice Indermeet Kaur took a humanitarian view after the man didn’t challenge his conviction but only sought relief on the point of the 10-year jail sentence awarded to him by the trial court.
 
 Raj Kishor had spent six years and seven months in jail before coming out on bail. Releasing him on period already undergone, the court termed it “a fit case for invoking the proviso to Section 376 of the IPC.”
 
 It noted that the crime occurred in 2011 when the survivor was 20-years-old and her clothes were not torn.
 
 Further, Justice Kaur highlighted that “no injuries having been found upon her person, the appellant (Kishor) being known to her and being a married man having a 13-year-old son at that time, this being his first offence and he being the only bread earner in his family, would qualify as adequate and special reasons to enable the appellant to avail of the benefit of this proviso.”
 
  also found from the evidence that “clothes of the victim were not torn. No semen stains were found on her undergarments or her private parts and no injury was noted upon her person.”
 
 On its part, the prosecution opposed the relief, arguing that the minimum sentence of seven years cannot be altered. Supporting the trial judge’s decision to award a sentence of 10 years, the prosecution argued that   is a crime against the society and not an individual crime and pointed out that Kishor didn’t assail his conviction.
 
 But HC took note of the fact that the rape allegation emerged because Kishor had promised to marry the young girl hiding the fact that he was already married. In the process, he had physical relations with the unaware survivor.
 
 “Criminal law adheres in general to the principle of proportionality allowing some significant discretion to the courts in arriving at a sentence depending upon the special facts of each case,” the court noted, adding that in such cases the court can impose a sentence of imprisonment less than the prescribed minimum for “adequate and special reasons.”
 
 But what is “an adequate and a special reason would depend upon a variety of factors and the peculiar facts and circumstances of each case. There exists no straitjacket formula for universal application,” it added.
 
 
