LUDHIANA: Adding to the woes of city residents, farmers have started to burn stubble in fields around the city and neighbouring areas.

 
 With the rising pollution and the government’s apathy towards the issue, the residents are expected to pay the price by risking their health.
 
 As per the Central Pollution Control Board, the Air Quality Index — which measures seven air pollutants — for Ludhiana at 4pm on Monday was 90. It suggested that the air quality in the city was satisfactory. However, if the   continues unabated, the   will rise and might even cross the 100-mark resulting in breathing discomfort for the people with asthma and heart diseases.
 
 A Times of India team found that workers appointed by various farmers having their fields in and around the city were setting wheat stubble on fire in Samrala, Machiwara, Doraha and Raikot areas.
 
 A farmer from the Machiwara area said that they don’t have an option but to burn the stubble as the cost of transportation of the same is very high.
 
 Meanwhile, the   ( ) officials expressed helplessness over checking the rising pollution levels. They added that till the time farmers are given a free hand to burn stubble by the government and the speed of winds doesn’t increase, the AQI will continue to increase.
 
 “It is in our knowledge that the farmers are setting the stubble on fire in various areas of the state, including Ludhiana. Our teams and officials from the district administration are on the job and are issuing challans to the defaulters,” said PPCB chairman K S Pannu. He added that in Ludhiana district, the number of challans issued on farmers for stubble burning are more than 10.
 
 Environmental activists say that the government in power is doing no service even to farmers by allowing them to burn stubble.
 
 “The rising pollution level due to stubble burning is very harmful for the common man and even to the farmers as their respiratory health, skin and eyes do get effected because of this. The government should act responsibly by not allowing farmers to burn stubble and instead help them in curbing the practice, besides providing them ways to dispose of the same,” said  , an environmental activist.
 
 A pulmonary medicine specialist in a city hospital Dr   said that with the rise in air pollution, the number of patients with respiratory problems register an increase in number.
 
 
