Ludhiana: With only a few hours left for campaigning to end, the candidates are going gung-ho and making all efforts to attract the voters. From road shows, door-to-door campaigning, public meetings, the candidates are leaving no stone unturned to make their presence felt in the respective wards. The campaigning will come to halt on February 22 at 4 pm and after that no candidate will be allowed to campaign.

 Amid all the mayhem of this election campaign, none of the party workers followed the traffic rules. Youngsters were seen driving bikes without helmets and drivers flamboyantly drove around without any seat belts. The candidates understand the huge potential of social media and therefore, did campaigning on social media too.
 
 Youngsters on bikes, cars and open jeeps carried huge cut-outs of leaders and party flags. The candidates made all possible efforts to showcase the strength. But some of the candidates considered the road shows as ‘futile’ exercise and claimed that door-to-door campaigning is ‘much effective’.
 
 The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidates got full support from senior party leadership. On Wednesday, the MP and state president Bhagwant Mann and co-president Aman Arora took part in the road shows and also organised public meetings in various wards. They also did canvassing in favour of their candidates. The   candidate from ward number 80 Sonu Kalyan organised a road show where Bhagwant Mann was present. 
 
 Meanwhile, the   leaders and supporters also carried out a road show in favour of candidate Pammi Verma from ward number 83. The candidate Pammi Verma along with other female supporters headed the road show.
 
 Congress candidate from ward number 82 Gagandeep Bhalla is not in favour of road shows. “In my ward, the residents don’t like noisy campaigning. So, we are conducting only public meetings and door-to-door campaigning,” he said. 
 
 BJP candidate from ward number 91 Roopamdeep Malhi echoed similar sentiments. She said door-to-door meetings help her to develop a better connection with the residents. She said in a road show, the candidate sits inside a vehicle and carries out a procession. “Road shows cause traffic chaos and inconvenience to the commuters,” she said. 
 
 Meanwhile, the district electoral officer-cum-deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said none of the candidates can campaign post 4 pm on Thursday (February 22. He also asked the candidates to follow the model code of conduct. He warned that strict action would be taken against the violators. 
 
 The polling would be held on February 24 and the results would be announced on February 27. 
 
 
