Chennai:   capacity in Tamil Nadu has gone up by 130MW with the Neyveli Lignite Corporation (NLC) commissioning its project in Neyveli in Cuddalore district. The project, set up across 655 acres, was commissioned by coal secretary Susheel Kumar on Monday. Under an agreement,   will sell solar power to Tangedco at Rs 5.10 per unit. 

 The corporation won the solar project through preferential tariff from Tangedco when the cost was Rs 5.10 per unit in 2016. Since then, the discom has taken the tender route and the cost has fallen to Rs 3.47 per unit. With the commissioning of 130MW, NLC’s solar power capacity has gone up to 140MW while the state’s to 1,995MW. Nearly 2,000MW solar projects are in the pipeline. 
 
 “The 130MW solar power project has been implemented in two blocks of 65MW each. BHEL was engaged for executing one block of 65MW with deployment of indigenous solar modules and Jakson Engineers Pvt.Ltd was entrusted with executing another block of 65 MW with the deployment of indigenous solar cells and modules,” said Susheel Kumar. 
 
 The project is spread over four different locations within Neyveli. The power evacuated from each site is linked to the pooling sub-station which has been established at a cost of Rs 38.10cr by GE T&D Ltd. “The total project cost works out to Rs 752.62cr. This green power initiative is likely to reduce the loading of about 2.16 lakh tonnes of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere compared to the fossil fuel,” said Susheel Kumar. 
 
 Despite NLC signing the PPA with Tangedco for Rs 5.10 per unit, the discom is not likely to purchase at the same tariff. “As a rule, we will have go by the tariff fixed by Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) at the time of commissioning of the project. Thus even if the PPA is for Rs 5.10 per unit, we will be paying only Rs 4.50 per unit to NLC when the solar power is evacuated,” a senior Tangedco official told TOI. 
 
 Meanwhile, Tantransco has sought Rs 5,000 crore as loan for setting up a sub-station in Virudhunagar with a capacity of 765Kv. “The upcoming sub-station is the biggest one in Tamil Nadu and Tantransco has sought loan from Rural Electrification Corporation (REC),” said the official. 
 
 The sub-station will be used to evacuate power thermal as well as solar power in the region. “We have two big thermal projects coming up at Uppur in Ramanathapuram district and Uangudi in Tuticorin district. Apart from the two thermal units, Tangedco is setting up a solar park at Kadaladi in Ramanathapuram district. The power generated from all these sources will be evacuated by the biggest sub-station at Virudhunagar,” said the official. 
 
 
