NEW DELHI: The imposition of heavy penalties on the private contractor,  , for delays seems to have put the   flyover project back on track, say PWD officials. 

 The completion of the flyover portion of the decongestion drive, which also includes an underpass, would now be given priority.
 
 
  
 
 This effort to remove a major bottleneck on the road to IGI Airport is just 40% complete even 17 months after its original deadline of December 2016. Frustrated by the slow progress, an official revealed, 
 
 "We imposed penalties of over Rs 2.5 crore per month to indicate our seriousness. HCC has assured us in writing that the project will now be finished within the stipulated deadline."
 
 HCC has been fined over Rs 27.8 crore till date for the continuing delay. This amount is almost 10% of the original tender cost for the project and is among the biggest penalties imposed for delayed infrastructural projects in recent years. The new deadline for the flyover has been set for December, while the underpass is expected to be ready by March 2019. Ascribing the unusually lengthy delay to problems in getting permission for felling trees and shifting utility lines, PWD official revealed these had been overcome.
 
 While construction of the holding superstructure of the flyover is being fast-tracked, traffic is being allowed to ply on the busy   stretch, raising questions about safety in the shadow of the recent accident in Ghaziabad where a girder at a Delhi Metro construction site fell and injured seven people. PWD officials claimed that necessary precautions had been taken and the major chunk of the work would be done at night.
 
 When TOI visited the site, most of the 139 piers required for the project were still being erected. While the span between Munirka petrol pump to the start of the existing   flyover was complete and the contractor had started setting up girders and reinforced concrete slabs over it, the construction on the section at end of the flyover in the direction of the airport had not even started. "For three months, we will not need to divert traffic, but it can be necessary at a later stage," an official said.
 
 Around 2 lakh vehicles pass the existing two-laned flyover every day. The original project cost was Rs 278 crore, which has escalated to over Rs 360 crore. Deputy CM   said in March the project would be completed by June end, but PWD executives said it was unrealistic.
 
 
