Vadodara: For the first time, Barodians have not only got the opportunity to see works of tribal artists from as far as West Bengal, Odisha and Karnataka but also buy them. 

 Around 35 tribal artists from eight states were brought together by city-based BHASHA Research and Publication Centre (BRPC) for a workshop at its Adivasi Academy in Tejgadh in Chhota Udepur. Following the workshop, which was supported by ONGC, the works have now been put for exhibition and sale at MS University’s fine arts faculty for two days from Wednesday.
 
 The exhibition cum sale has Warli paintings from Maharashtra, Hasse Chittars from Karnataka, Pattachitra from West Bengal, Pithora paintings, Mansjusha and Madhubani paintings on display. Besides paintings art enthusiasts will also get to see other items such as Madur-Sabai – types of mats made of grass which grows only in Medinipur in West Bengal, ritual masks made of wood and bamboo, relief work on plywood, wooden sculptures, clay works and tribal jewellery among others.
 
 Almost all the works made by these artists have passed on over generations in each of the tribal areas that they belong to. The paintings which have been prepared are based on mythological stories and the colours too which have been used have unique significance, while the intricate details and designs on sculptures and other items present uniqueness in their styles. On Wednesday, when the event was inaugurated the artists not only exhibited the works, but they also demonstrated how the artefacts are made.
 
 “The artists do not have platforms where they can meet other artists from different tribes so we held this workshop. The intention was that the artists will interact with each other and learn and can also have dialogue of each other’s traditions,” said Sonal Baxi, academic coordinator at BRPC. She added that all the proceeds of the sale will go directly to the artists.
 
 A similar workshop was held last year as well with the help of ONGC, but the works were later exhibited at BRPC’s museum in Tejgadh.
 
 
