HYDERABAD: While the TRS may have reasons to celebrate at the 17th party plenary on Friday, a concern that needs to be addressed is deep factionalism. In the four years that it has been in office, the TRS managed to get about 20 elected representatives from the   and TDP cross over. A ruling party ticket is a prized commodity, and one can see open division between TRS loyalists and ‘outsiders’ .

 For instance, there are two groups in Nizamabad. While MLC Bhupathi Reddy, a TRS loyalist since he joined the party in 2002 represents one group,   Rural   Bajireddy Govardhan Reddy, who quit the Congress and joined the pink party before the 2014 elections, represents the other. They almost came to blows last year and lodged police complaints against each other. Bhupathi Reddy argues that it is he who strengthened the party in the district but Govardhan Reddy walked away with the MLA ticket in 2014.
 
 In   district, Md Fareeduddin, former minister in the Congress and now in the TRS, is pitted against local party leaders led by Manikya Rao and both are engaged in seeking control of Zaheerabad constituency. Sources claimed that similar factionalism exists in Warangal, Mahabubnagar and Nalgonda. In Nalgonda’s Devarakonda assembly constituency, differences between MLA  , who joined the TRS from the CPI, and ZP Chairman Balu Naik, is causing a headache for the party. Balu Naik had complained against the MLA with district minister G Jagadishwar Reddy a few months ago.
 
 In constituencies like Khammam, the fight is between outsiders. Vying for control of the assembly constituencies in Khammam district are rival factions headed by minister Tummala Nageshwara Rao, who was with the TDP before joining the TRS, MLA Puvvada Ajay Kumar, who switched loyalty from the Congress, and Khammam MP Ponguleti Srinivas Reddy, who joined the TRS from the YSRCP in 2016.
 
 In Karimanagar’s Dharmapuri assembly constituency, MLA and chief whip   is said to be unhappy with the role being played by G Vivek, who had quit the Congress and joined TRS.
 
 But the TRS leadership is confident that all the leaders will work together during election time. According to TRS sources, the party leadership is aware of the situation. “We have already identified those leaders who might not be able to get the assembly tickets in the next year’s elections. Of them, we will let go those who are not popular in their constituencies while we will offer nominated positions to those who are important to us,” they said.
 
