AHMEDABAD: In a setback to the   ( ), Gujarat high court has dropped a case of   against three businessmen in connection with Rs 5,395-crore hawala   involving Surat-based Afroz Hasan   and Madanlal Jain.

 After discharging three persons from the case, the high court pulled up ED for wasting court hours. Justice S G Shah said, ED contested the petitions “with all zeal and made irrelevant and unwarranted submissions which does not suit to the litigant like present respondent being statutory government agency. Such practice and attitude by the statutory authority simply results into wastage of precious judicial hours of working…particularly when there is shortage of judges and huge pendency of old cases in all courts.”
 
 Three persons who have got discharge from the case are Ajit   of Avon Organics, Deepak Shenoy of Sundar Industries and Santosh Naik of Jyoti Structure. They were charged under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) for receiving and transferring the money at the behest of the main accused Hasanfatta. ED indicted them in the offence when it filed a complaint in 2013 with the court against 80 persons and firms.
 
 After ED filed the complaint, the special PMLA court took cognizance of the offence against them and issued summons. They challenged summons and questioned their arraignment in the case on the ground that they were not even remotely involved in money laundering and the transaction that took place from their bank accounts were not part of the conspiracy to use the tainted money. They had no idea that the money was tainted or proceed of crime.
 
 After hearing the case, Justice Shah said, “Even on prima facie basis, no offence is made out against any of the accused applicants.”
 
 In February 2017, the high court had quashed summons and dropped cases of money laundering against five of Hasanfatta’s close relatives – Jafar and Ahmed Hasan Fatta, Fazal Umer Pothiawala, Foziya and Samir Godil. Justice Shah said that the case of Naik, Shenoy and Kamath appears to be similar to those who were discharged last year in the hawala scam.
 
 
