Minister for food, civil supplies and consumer affairs U T Khader recently became the target of RSS leader  , during a protest against cattle thefts. Khader says people have had enough of the divisive agenda of fundamentalists. “India is a secular nation and fundamentalism is a threat to the secular fabric of the country,” he asserts. Excerpts:

 
 
 People of my constituency will give a fitting reply to RSS leaders in this election. Voters in my constituency will not listen to Bhat’s politically motivated statements. My friends in the Hindu community have been inviting me to temples and requesting me to ignore Bhat’s statements. God decides everything for good. Bhat’s statements will backfire on him.
 
 
 
 
 Bhat is a veteran leader, who is supposed to advise me. Unfortunately, the situation is such that young leaders like me have to give him advice (to speak in a saner voice). I pray to God to give him good sense. He doesn’t know that India is a nation of unity in diversity. He won’t talk like that if he knows it.
 
 
 
 My parents and elders taught me to be secular and advised me to respect all religions. My parents visit houses of Hindu brethren on special occasions. Similarly, Hindus in our locality too visit our house. Nobody can stop me from respecting other religions.
 
 
 
 
 Our government does not support any type of crime. Culprits in all cases should be brought before law. The protest by the Sangh Parivar itself is a political move. The home minister had already issued directions to form special police teams to nab all accused in cow theft incidents.
 
 
 
 
 It was the UPA government that started the green revolution. However, the NDA government has commenced a pink revolution in India so now our nation is one of the largest exporters of beef. Let the Centre bring in an effective law to ban cow slaughter completely across the nation.
 
 
 
 
 Congress workers in Saudi Arabia invited us to hold a convention. Large numbers of Congress followers work in Saudi Arabia. Our next plan is to form a unit in Saudi Arabia and expand party activities.
 
