NEW DELHI: In February, the   nabbed a man for possession of an illegal pistol. When the man pleaded he wasn’t involved in any earlier crime, the cops took him to Kamla Market. There, not much time elapsed before the policemen realised they had finally got the man behind a 12-year-old case. His fingerprints and the details of the earlier case were in the records and provided the clinching link.

 The   at Kamla Market, and its 38-man team, plays an instrumental role in solving crime cases. As Alok Kumar, joint commissioner (Crime), testified, “The intervention of the   remains paramount despite rapid advances in forensic sciences. Fingerprints are crucial in establishing a person’s identity.” 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Every time a heinous crimes in committed in the city, the bureau analysis more than 31 lakh fingerprints in its data base, hoping to nail the culprit’s culpability through evidence about his or her presence on the crime scene. The team of 38 helps get 50 calls for help every day, and solve at least five cases every month. Last year, they examined 2,071 cases, of which 1,716 were new and the rest earlier cases reopened for examination.
 
 “The system is so foolproof that there hasn’t been a single case of wrong identification,” claimed Kumar. Suppose a person is caught on the spot after committing a murder and is brought to the police station. It is probable that he will not reveal his true name. This is where the   experts step in. All police stations are provided with a live scanning equipment that captures prints of fingers and palms. “Within 10 seconds, the print images are put on the central system called AFPIS (Automated   and Palm Identification System),” disclosed Rajan Bhagat, DCP (crime records). “If the suspect has a criminal history, it immediately shows up along with his correct name and address.” 
 
 If a match is established, investigators get access to information such as the suspect’s photograph, names, aliases, date of birth, previous crimes, including speeding bookings, drug dependencies and mental health records. 
 
 The bureau has an ACP, two inspectors, 15 sub-inspectors and 20 assistant sub-inspectors, for whom the tools of the trade have changed considerably. They no longer work with bulky devices like a silver nitrate or iodine fuming chamber, earlier used to develop fingerprints on paper or cloth. Today, the process has become less tedious and more accurate, especially because the data is digitised.
 
 Cops have introduced newer and more proficient technologies like RUVIS (Reflected Ultraviolet Imaging System). AFPIS contains fingerprint records of those who have previously been taken into custody as well as those who have been convicted but not charged with a crime. The details of all fresh arrests are stored mandatorily. The system with its live images of fingerprints, introduced in 2010, means cops no longer have to take fingerprints of accused on plain paper and rush to district offices for scanning and identification.
 
 The fingerprints on record not only help to solve criminal cases or give the cops a lead on the probability of the suspect, but it is also helpful in identifying bodies. Of the 943 cases of unidentified bodies that were forwarded to the fingerprint department last year, the experts were able to determine 46. It is, of course, as an officer pointed out, only those with a criminal background who can be identified in this manner.
 
 
