MADURAI: In a significant ruling pertaining to the appointment of a special public prosecutor (SPP) under SC /ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, the Madurai bench of the Madras high court said that just because an advocate had appeared for the victim of atrocity, it cannot be said that he or she could not be engaged to conduct the prosecution before the sessions court.

 The judge said, “When the victim of the atrocity wishes that an eminent senior advocate shall be engaged to conduct the prosecution case, then the district magistrate has to engage such an advocate in conducting the prosecution in the special court and can’t reject such a request of the victim of the atrocity.”
 
 Therefore, in pursuance of the written representation of the petitioner dated November 6 and 11 last year, the district collector-cum-district magistrate is directed to engage G Bhagavath Singh to conduct the prosecution in the case pending before the Additional District and Sessions Judge, Madurai, the judge said.
 
 Government counsel A P G Ohm Chairma Prabhu told the court that already a SPP has been appointed to conduct cases under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and chief examination was also taken, under the circumstances of which, another advocate need not be appointed to conduct the trial.
 
 Advocate S   appeared for the accused argued that the said advocate Bhagavath Singh had already appeared on behalf of the petitioner (victim) in a case before the high court bench seeking DNA test to ascertain paternity. Thus, if he is appointed to conduct prosecution, it would cause great prejudice to the accused.
 
 According to the prosecution, one Veera Kumaran who belongs to Backward community worked as a constable in the   in Kamudhi in   district. He had physical relationship with Veeralakshmi who belongs to SC community promising to marry her. 
 
 She then delivered a baby boy. Later, the man cheated her and shifted his work to Madurai. It prompted her to lodge a complaint against him before the all women police station at Samayanallur in Madurai. The police registered rape case against him and the case was committed for trial before the lower court.
 
 During trial, a lower court ordered DNA test to ascertain the paternity of the child. When the test report came negative, she moved the high court bench for a 2nd DNA test, in which advocate Bhagavat Singh appeared for her. 
 
 However, the court dismissed her plea. Following it, she gave representation to the collector to appoint Bhagavat Singh as SPP by saying that performance of the public prosecutor who is conducting the case was not well.
 
 
