Bareilly: For 17-year-old Umara (who goes by her first name) securing 86.6% in class XII “was no less than winning a battle”. She found in June last year that she was unable to hold a pen and write. Her parents took her to four different doctors in Bareilly but nobody could diagnose the problem. Hence, she could not write a single word at school or at home.

 “Whenever I would try to hold the pen, my fingers failed to grip it. I had to exert pressure to write a single word. The doctors in Bareilly gave me medicines but it did not help me, as the problem was not diagnosed. I would cry all the time because I could not make notes in the classroom. My teachers who were aware about my health problems provided me photocopied notes of my classmates. I would memorise the chapters but faced immense problems in physics and chemistry which had numerical problems, as I could not solve them,’’ said Umara who regularly attended classes despite her problem.
 
 As she did not get any relief for eight months, she started thinking about dropping out of school. “I was clueless about how to write my exams which were scheduled to begin from February. I told my family that I did not want to appear for exams. Just 20 days before the class XII exams were due to start, my elder brother, Mohd Zubair Ali, took me to   in Delhi where doctors told me that I have been suffering from  ,’’ said Umara, a student of  .
 
 The right treatment just before her exams improved her condition but as she did not write for the entire year, it affected her speed and efficiency during exams. However, the disorder could not curb her indomitable spirit.
 
 “My speed was badly affected because I did not hold a pen for almost a year. I could not complete my papers on time and left two to three questions in all the papers. However, when I saw my results, I could not believe that I had scored so well despite writer’s cramp,’’ said Umara with a broad smile.
 
 Archana (who goes by her first name), her school principal said, “Umara is a brilliant child and had topped the school in class X and XI. She would have been our school topper again this year if her speed was not affected by her disorder.”
 
