JAIPUR: The state government has issued direction to cancel the Diamond Hill Housing project which is developed on the land where member of erstwhile royal family Gayatri Devi wanted to develop a public park. 

 The JDA has issued 54 lease deeds in this housing project. Now, application in civil court will be filed to cancel these lease deeds.
 
 A senior JDA official said, “Following the state government’s direction, the JDA has sought legal advice. As JDA does not have right to cancel the issued lease deeds, the application will be filed in civil court,” he said.
 
 The decision to cancel the lease deed was taken in a meeting that was held on December 2 where additional chief secretary (UDH), Jaipur Development Commissioner, UDH joint commissioner, JDA zone commissioner were present.
 
 An official said, “In the order, it is mentioned that the cooperative society still doesn’t have possession of land and there is only 10% development. Moreover, a slum is developed in the area and housing society has issued lease deeds violating the norms.” 
 
 This is a setback for buyers who had purchased land at a prime location, the foothills of   from Meenawala Grah Nirman Sahakari Samiti.
 
 However, sources in the department said, “Maharaja Sawai Jai Singh Benevolent Trust in 1982 sold 31,000 square metre land to Meenawala Grah Nirman Sahakari Samiti. But, the contract was revoked in 1995 under the clause of non-payment. Despite the agreement was cancelled, the Samiti issued the lease deeds to 54 plot owners.” 
 
 He added, “The JDA issued the lease deeds on the basis of maps and record presented by the society for regularisation.” 
 
 However, the JDA officials did not disclose how the land will be utilised after its possession.
 
 As the land is in legal tangles, the prime property now being used to dump garbage. According to sources, late Gayatri Devi, who was keen to develop a public park, had written on May 6, 2004 to chief minister  .
 
 Raje on May 26, 2004 had replied, "I have directed principal secretary forest/ UDH department to look into the matter and take decision.”
 
 People reportedly close to the Gayatri Devi said, “It was a dream of Rajmata to develop this unique park as it has a beautiful view of the Moti Doongri.”
 
 A letter from Gayatri Devi on February 28, 2005 to the chief minister stated, “I want to create a park on the land underneath Moti Doongri and I would be grateful if you could kindly ask the   to undertake this work.”
 
 Because of legal issues during her last days, she hardly had any power to check trespassers on her property. Encroachments at the foothills of Moti Doongri fort in the heart of the city is a testimony to her helplessness. The land mafias have gradually and secretly occupied over 60,000 square yards around the fort that was gifted to Gayatri Devi by her husband Sawai Man Singh II.
 
 Her letter to Raje on January 20, 2008 says it all: “I hate to bother you but I am having a problem with my land around Moti Doongri. People are building houses and making walls wherever they like. There is no way that I can stop it.’
 
 
