BENGALURU: A private school in   has allegedly admitted only 21 students under the RTE quota despite informing parents of 41 children about seat allocation. Aggrieved parents have now complained to the education department. 

 The last date for admission was May 5. The KLE school claimed it’s an error in the software of the department of public instruction and the school has only 21 seats reserved under the quota. 
 
 Many parents protested against the school last week and the issue has now been taken up by the RTE task force as the admission of 20 children is in limbo.
 
 On April 26, parents had submitted to the school documents pertaining to admission of 41 students for Class 1. The parents were told they’ll be informed over the phone on admission matters. “The school sent messages to 41 parents. If they had only 21 seats, they should have got in touch with only 21 parents. We got the seat-allotment messages 10 days ago. All the documents have been submitted,” said   T H, whose son is awaiting admission. 
 
 Shivalinga S, another parent, said he received a message about seat allotment on April 13 and necessary documents were submitted soon after. “Initially, we were told the seat was confirmed. But later we learnt the school had made two lists; those in the first would be admitted and the rest would have to go to other schools. This school was closest to our house. We haven’t applied elsewhere and classes will start from May 25. The education department has asked us to wait for some more days,” he rued. 
 
 The RTE task force, a non-governmental voluntary body, has taken up the issue with the Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights.
 
 The government has allotted seats for the pre-primary section too, which the school claimed to have stopped. “The school has two entries for accommodating students under RTE — in pre-primary school and Class I. They have admitted only 21 students and we are examining the matter. The block education officer (BEO) has been sent to the school for inquiry,” said  , deputy director of public instruction (DDPI). 
 
 The BEO, however, said he has nothing do to with the matter and it should be checked with the commissioner’s office. 
 
 
