Chennai: The past few months have been dominated by heart-wrenching reports of rape, murder and invasion of individual rights, for the public, social media became the space where the groundswell of activism began and ended. Realising that any long-term change can only begin with systematically engaging and educating the public, a few NGOs in the city have been curating detailed public engagement programmes comprising debates,   and discussions intended to leave participants with more cultivated perspectives on themes such as gender, violence and bystander intervention.

 The latest in these public engagement programmes is The Red Elephant Foundation’s two-month-long Building Peace Project that began on May 1. An online peace education programme, it combines research material, expert talks, group discussions and debates on identity, culture, breaking stereotypes, gender, violence and using art for peace.
 
 After participating in the programme, 24-year-old legal consultant   says he could internalise the struggles of his clients and empathise with them. "No amount of legal education we picked up in college adds up to the kind of learning such a transparent exchange of ideas provides," he says.
 
 The project opened the floor for discussions that Banerjee realised laid bare several hypocrisies, even those the legal and social sectors were carrying unknowingly. "For instance, if someone makes a borderline sexist statement and gets a few laughs, there is a possibility that a woman in the same room, who may have gone through abuse as a child, feels unsafe and helpless. And this is how we become enablers," says Banerjee, who after the session, went on to discourage friends and students from circulating offensive jokes online and called up admins of such pages to ensure they were taken down.
 
 "The programme is not centered on people taking up a cause, but aimed at really shifting their mindsets. We’ve had people come back to tell us that they’ve brought peace back into their lives by dismantling their own biases," says Kirthi Jayakumar, founder, The Red Elephant Foundation.
 
 Similarly, The Prajnya Trust has been conducting community cafes in homes, offices and campuses to educate participants on what constitutes violence, the help available and bystander intervention.
 
 For J Malarvizhi, homemaker and a participant in a community cafe last year, the session on gender violence and sensitisation, reiterated the importance of education and financial independence. "Ever since, I have proactively tried to push my own house-help to educate her daughter, and whenever needed, financially aided her it too," she says. 
 
 "These are multi-generational and multi-gendered spaces where experiences are shared and perceptions challenged," says Swarna Rajagopalan, founder, The Prajnya Trust. "Among other things, we diplomatically want to make people see and understand that they may have had experiences they may want to reexamine," she adds.
 
 
