BENGALURU: From senior citizens to school students, hundreds of people from different walks of life descended on Field Marshal Manekshaw   on Friday to celebrate the country’s 69th  .

 A team of visually impaired students from   for the Disabled, an NGO, drew huge applause during the march past. It comprised mostly students from various colleges who were completely blind. “We are really proud to have performed today because we love our country,” said Nandhesh J, captain of the 33-member team, adding: “We are also honoured to receive a special prize for our performance. We have been practising for the past month.”
 
 Devaraj, manager, public relations, Samarthanam trust, said: “Students with partial blindness were placed at the front and back. The rest of them were completely blind. They have trained very hard for this day.” 
 
 The event also drew plenty of onlookers who cheered the participants. “It’s always a proud moment to attend Republic Day celebrations,” said S Abhijith, a resident of Ulsoor, who turned out with his family. “I have attended this function for the past three years. My daughter was more excited and she woke up early today and painted the tricolour on her face.”
 
 Moments after governor   unfurled the tricolour, an army helicopter showered petals amidst applause from spectators on the ground. Vala then took the salute as contingents from the armed forces, Karnataka State Reserve Police, Border Security Force, civil defence forces, Home Guards, fire brigade, scouts and guides and others took part in the march-past.
 
 The parade was followed by a dance show and tableaux. Members of Shwet Ashw, the army’s motorcycle display team, thrilled the crowd with their breathtaking stunts. The team, led by naik subedar N K Tiwari, who has 23 years of experience in performing daredevil acts on motorbikes, drew thunderous applause for their jumps through rings of fire, sudarshan-chakra and pyramid formations.
 
 A team from the Madras Regimental Centre, led by Havildar Unni, then performed a kalaripayattu, a martial arts form from Kerala, show. The equestrian team from ASC Centre and College, Bengaluru, which has excelled in various disciplines like dressage, eventing and polo at national and international events, also put on a stunning show.
 
 Nearly 650 students from Government High School, Chikkabidarakallu (Bengaluru North) took home the top honours for their performance with their Punya Bhoomi Bharatha, a dance performance that showcased the country's unity in diversity.
 
 As many as 682 students of Government Composite Junior College, Hoodi, Government Model Higher Primary School and Florence Public School, Basavanna Nagar performed a dance 'Navu   Bharatheeyaru Vishala Hrudayadavaru', which is based on Dr B R Ambedkar's vision of unity.
 
 
 
