AMRITSAR: The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee ( ) constituted a six-member panel on Tuesday to probe which recommendations of its member in the advisory board by the   ( ) for the Class XII history books.

 
 The six-member panel comprises SGPC member Harjinder Kaur from Chandigarh, principal Surinder Singh from Anandpur Sahib, SGPC education secretary Avtar Singh Saimpla, principal of Guru Nanak Girls College Muktsar Tejinder Kaur Dhaliwal and SGPC additional secretary for dharam parchar committee Simarjit Singh. SGPC director for education Jatinder Singh Sidhu would be the coordinator.
 
 “Our representative Paramvir Singh was inducted in the expert committee at the end of 2017. The syllabus was prepared by the syllabus sub-committee and was presented before the expert panel. Our representative had given his comments and some verbal suggestions,” SGPC additional secretary Diljit Singh Bedi told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 SGPC and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) have taken strong exception to “removal of 23 chapters on Sikh history and gurus from Class XII history books”. On the other hand the incumbent   has denied the allegations and maintains that chapters were spread across classes XI and XII.
 
 Stating that it was an serious issue, which smelt of a conspiracy, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said, “The whole issues needs to be investigated.” Longowal said that subcommittee had been asked to submit its report within two days.
 
 Bedi said that the above subcommittee would hold its meeting at Panth Rattan Jathedar Gurcharan Singh Tohra Institute, Bahadurgarh, Patiala on May 2.
 
 “The committee would look into the comments and verbal suggestions given by SGPC’s representative and also investigate their implementation,” said Bedi.
 
 Panel to discuss Kiran Bala issue tomorrow
 
 A meeting of SGPC’s four member sub-committee constituted to investigate the issue of the embracing of Islam by Kiran Bala, a resident of Garhshankar in Hoshiarpur district and marrying a Lahore resident while accompanying the Sikh jatha to Pakistan on April 12, has been convened on May 3. SGPC additional secretary Diljit Singh Bedi said that the meeting would be held in the committee’s office at Amritsar to discuss the incident.
 
