By- 
 

 CHENNAI: Two men, including a college student, from the city drowned in a waterfall near   in Andhra Pradesh on Monday afternoon, police said. While the families are shattered, three of the dead men’s friends left police shocked by trying to bring the corpses home on two motorcycles.
 
 The friends placed one of the corpses between a rider and a person riding pillion; they tied the other, also in a seated position, to one of the youngsters riding the second bike. The bodies fell off the bikes when police flagged them down on the   road.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 The trio said they were frolicking in the waterfall when Yaswanth  , 19, jumped in the swimming hole at the bottom of the waterfall and got stuck in the mud. Yasin, 30, tried to rescue Yaswanth but failed and died with him. Yaswanth, an engineering student, lived in Thanikachalam Nagar near Kolathur. Yasin, 30, of  , worked at a saloon.
 
 When the two men were struggling in the sludge, their friends cried for help. Villagers pulled the two men out, but it was too late. Police are yet to ascertain why the friends tried to furtively bring the bodies back home.
 
 
 
 
 The three youngsters whose names are yet to be ascertained — a  , an autorickshaw mechanic and an airconditioner mechanic — told the Andhra Pradesh police that they started from Chennai at 8.30am on two bikes and the accident happened early in the afternoon.
 
 Police sent the bodies to a government hospital and informed the family members.
 
 Yaswanth’s friends gathered at his house in Thanikachalam Nagar in Kolathur. His grandmother Uma Maheshwari, who runs a kiosk near the house, told TOI that her grandson had taken some snacks from her shop on Monday morning and left with his friends.
 
 Yaswanth’s father Bhagwan Singh delivers water cans in the neighbourhood.
 
 Yaswanth’s friends said he had uploaded some selfies taken at the Tada waterfalls on his Facebook page. A friend said Yasin had befriended Yaswanth only a couple of days ago, through social media.
 
 One of the photographs Yaswanth uploaded on Monday on his Facebook page shows Yasin taking a selfie with Yaswanth and others on their bikes near a toll plaza.
 
