MOHALI: The   (PSPCL) will soon kick off a new project which will enhance the power capacity to meet the requirements of   residents. The move has been initiated by   officials after Zirakpur residents filed numerous complaints.

 A Venu Prasad, chairman-cum-managing director (CMD), PSPCL, told TOI that they have taken cognizance of the inconvenience caused to the people due to electricity shortage.
 
 “The grave issue of Zirakpur residents facing problems owing to intermittent power cuts has come to my notice through media reports,” said Prasad.
 
 He further stated that a number of developmental projects are in pipeline in   circle to mitigate the problems of the people.
 
 “The augmentation of 20 MVA power transformer to 31.5 MVA at 66 KV Sub Station of Dhakoli in Zirakpur sub-division would soon be completed. Moreover, the land for commissioning 66 KV sub-station at Haripur Kura and   has also been handed over to the chief engineer,” he added.
 
 Elaborating on other works, he said that stringing of 6 KV line from 220 KV sub-station in Sector 80 of Mohali-II to 66 KV Sub-Station Phase 8B Mohali would be completed soon.
 
 “Commissioning of new 66 KV Sub-Stations at Baltana and Aero City-I would also be done,” said Prasad.
 
 The CMD has directed deputy chief engineer, Mohali to set up a meet with Mohali deputy commissioner (DC) and Nayagaon executive officer for acquisition of 2 acres of land required for proposed 66 KV grid at Nadda village in Mullanpur sub-division.
 
 He said that other development-centric works still at a nascent stage include creation of 7 new sub-divisions and upgradation of 2 sub offices under south zone, creation of new link between 66 KV Dhakoli and 66 KV Bhabat and from 66 KV Samgoli to 66 KV Jaula, augmentation of 20 MVA power transformer to 31.5 MVA at 66 KV Sub Station Bhabat, establishing customer care centre at Zirakpur sub division.
 
 Apart from this, improvement of 7 industrial feeders (CAT 2) under Derabassi and Lalru sub division and deployment of adequate manpower in Mohali is also underway.
 
 
