Kochi: To boost scientific temper and to inculcate a sense of inquiry among students,   district panchayat is planning to make a mini version of planetarium in an educational institution in the city. 

 
 "Through this initiative we are aiming to bring the universe, quite literally to the classrooms so that students can experience and learn more about space, astronomy, solar system, galaxies and much more. It would provide an edutainment to students. We are at present thinking of building a small planetarium at a higher secondary school in the district which has sufficient land to build a planetarium. But we have not finalized anything so far," said  , vice -president of Ernakulam district panchayat
 
 "We are planning to approach and carry out consultations with officials in   and   (Cusat) and subject matter experts on how to go ahead with this project. We have set aside Rs 10 lakh for the planetarium project in the 2018-19 budget," said Muthalib.
 
 "We are also thinking of buying a low- cost inflatable mobile planetarium. Since it is portable and cost - effective we think that it would be a good idea if we choose mobile planetariums instead of building one. However, a final decision in this regard will be made only by May- end," he said.
 
 District panchayat president   said that once planetarium becomes a reality it will provide an immersive education to students.
 
 "We will make special arrangements for schools to watch, study and photograph solar and lunar eclipses as well as various stellar phenomenon that happen in the sky. Apart from that we will also conduct meetings, lectures and workshops with eminent personalities in the field of science and technology in the planetarium. Facilities will be arranged to conduct Astro-poetry Astro-painting and Astro -quiz competitions," said an official with the district panchayat.
 
 Panchayat officials said that to provide planetarium experience to rural children they might even install a planetarium in rural areas.
 
 
