CHENNAI:   aims to utilise a central conference of southern states to discuss the interstate water issues pitching for the constitution of the   Management Board (CMB) on Tuesday. Close on the heels of the Supreme Court’s verdict in the Cauvery water dispute case last week, the apex court has directed setting up of the board within six weeks.

 The Union ministry of water resources, river development and Ganga rejuvenation is organising the regional conference of five southern states and the Union territory of   at Hyderabad.
 
 
 Top sources with the Central Water Commission ( ) said establishing the CMB is one of the points put forth by the Tamil Nadu government. “The state’s (Tamil Nadu) water resources department has informed us they would be discussing the setting up of the board at the conference. On the other hand, the Karnataka has also listed its points,” an official based in New Delhi told TOI.
 
 The meeting comes at a time when Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah has announced that his state would oppose setting up of the CMB. However, his Tamil Nadu counterpart K Palaniswami had expressed hope the Centre would constitute the board.
 
 Pronouncing its verdict for the 122-year-old dispute, the   had cut Tamil Nadu’s quota of water by 14.75 tmcft and increased Karnataka’s share to meet the drinking water requirements of Bengaluru.
 
 Noting that the objective of the meeting is to have a dialogue on the interstate water issues, official sources underscored that the conference is meant to arrive at solutions.
 
 “The conference is starting a dialogue process and helping in resolving the interstate water issues,” CWC chairman S   said.
 
 Meanwhile, an official statement on Monday said the conference to be chaired by Union minister of state for water resources ministry Arjun Ram Meghwal will mark the representation of ministers and officials from Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Telangana and Puducherry.
 
 “The objective of the conference is to discuss pending water resources issues and inter-state issues. These would include issues related to the implementation of the latest orders of the Supreme Court on sharing of the Cauvery water and Mullaiperiyar dam, interlinking of rivers like Godavari-Cauvery and notification of jurisdiction of Krishna and Godavari Management Boards, Parambikulam Aliyar projects, Pollavaram project and other interstate issues,” the statement said.
 
