After touring different parts of the country and starting a social media revolution with the #Padmanchallenge, the   team landed in Delhi to talk about their movie that is based on the real story of  . Sonam Kapoor was not present at the press conference, but Arunachalam, the real-life padman, joined director  ,   and   in the city. Speaking about what she’s contributed to the film, Twinkle said, "My biggest contribution to the film is that it took me nine months to convince Muruganantham to make a film on his life. I could have given a birth to third child in that period!"

  
  Akshay Kumar with the real Pad Man, Padma Shri Arunachalam Muruganantham
 
 Muruganantham said, "I never thought someone would make a film on my story. Wherever I went and spoke about menstrual hygiene, I was beaten up by people. I used to cover my cheeks with both my hands whenever I went to speak on the subject, so how could I ever imagine that someone would make a film on such a topic?" He was also the one who came up with the #PadmanChallenge. "I wanted to start this challenge to create awareness on menstrual hygiene. Why should only women talk about it? I wanted men – every father, brother and uncle – to talk and know about it. There should be awareness on   among men as well," he said.
 
  
   
 
 
 
 After highlighting sanitation issues in rural areas in Toilet: Ek Prem Katha, Akshay has taken up the task to talk about menstrual hygiene while he is promoting Pad Man. The actor said that he always wanted to do films on such social issues, but it is only now that he’s actually making films like these. "When I did Toilet: Ek Prem Katha, people asked me if I was stressed over it, thinking if people would come to watch a film on such a topic, but people watched and liked the movie. I am confident that this film will bring about a lot of change. I have also noticed that on social media, not only women, but men are also talking about menstrual hygiene. When has it ever happened before? Even Hollywood hasn’t made a film on such a topic. There have only been documentaries. It is for the first time that we have made an entertaining, commercial film that comes with an important message," said Akshay.
 Pad Man was earlier slated for release on January 25, but the release date of the movie was later postponed so that Padmaavat could have a solo release. When Akshay was asked if the release date was changed to avoid clash with Bhansali’s directorial, he said, "Sanjay Leela Bhansali met with me and we discussed it. There was nothing like a ‘clash’. He has been my producer, and in the film industry, we all are like a family, so we both decided to change the release date of our film."
 
  
  R Balki 
 
 
 
 The credit for convincing Muruganantham to make a film inspired from him goes to Twinkle Khanna. On deciding to write about Muruganantham’s story and then making a film on it, Twinkle said, "I was doing some research on menstruation and I came across Muruganantham’s story and it immediately gripped me as it was incredible. There were three parts to the story – one was about a man deciding to do something for his wife which later became a larger movement. The other one was about innovation, about a man who was not limited by his educational qualifications or lack of proficiency in English and he went on to become an innovator. His was the most interesting story I ever come across, so that’s how it began. We tracked him down and asked him if I could write about his story in my book and we eventually decided to make Pad Man. Even if we want to give a message through the film, we have to make it entertaining, because if it will not interest people, they are not going to watch it."
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
