Madurai: Seventyfive students registered on the first day at the facilitation centre set up at Thiagarajar College of Engineering as online application registration for admissions to engineering colleges in the state commenced on Thursday. Elaborate arrangements were made at the centre which was one among the 42 facilitation centres established in the state for the process.  The process was carried out under the guidance of TCE registrar Dr V Mohan and Anna University co-ordinator Dr Ohm Kumar. There were 30 computers for online registration while 10 were used by the assistants at the centre to create email IDs for students which was a prerequisite for the registration process. Seating arrangements and drinking water were among the facilities arranged.  Dr M Kameshwari, professor of mathematics at TCE, had her son T K Bharath Rishi enrolling as one of the first candidates. She said the registration could be done by the students themselves without any hassles. R Anand, a student of Pasumalai higher secondary school, said that he was doing something online for the first time in his life. He had his email ID created at the centre and was happy that he had one. About 30% of the students who registered were happy as the first email they received was a confirmation of their registration. An email ID, phone number and net-banking or credit/debit card facilities are a must to register here. Some of the parents who had come to the centre for the registration of their wards said that since they did not have computers at home, the facility was a boon. It was better than getting it done at a browsing centre, where frequent powercuts could also hinder the process. Parent who did not have netbanking facility or debit/credit card were found making requests to others to pay the Rs 500 for them on their card and receive the money from them. Many who had cards obliged immediately. Dr V Mohan said that they expected around 5,000 students to register through their facility by the end of the month, and that the registration process would pick up pace after the Class XII results were released. The registration would go on till May 30.