BENGALURU: Investigators on the trail of a recent attack on night patrol policemen in the city have busted an interstate gang that was involved in more than 100 burglary cases. 

 Five members of the gang from Madhya Pradesh and their two local supporters have been arrested and a .303 rifle they had stolen from night patrol personnel on January 18 in Kodigehalli and jewellery weighing 100 gram recovered from them, police commissioner T   said on Friday.
 
  The arrested gangsters are Raysingh, 35;  , 25; Jineth Remasingh Palashe, 19; Suresh Kodriya Mehar alias Sagar, 19 and  , 21. All are Bhil tribals and residents of Bhagoli village in Dhar district of Madhya Pradesh. Suneel Kumar said the gangsters' local accomplices, Hameed and Afroz, have also been arrested. 
 
  Mehar, Palashe, Sagar and Moher were nabbed earlier in the morning at Kempanahalli village, near Yelahanka. The gangsters attacked the cops, but were shot at before being picked up. 
 
 The commissioner said Raysing, the main accused, was picked up from Bhagoli earlier this week. 
 
  "Raysingh and three other gangsters -- who are still at large -- had tried to break in into a house in Kodigehalli area in the wee hours of January 18; Kodigehalli police rushed to the spot after residents alerted them about the gang. The four ran towards Tata Nagar and police followed them on a patrol bike. But the gang threw stones at the police personnel, snatched a rifle from one of them and fled," the commissioner said. He said Raysingh told the police team that the rifle was kept in an abandoned house at Kempanahalli, near Yelahanka, north Bengaluru. 
 
  A Vidyaranyapura police team rushed to the house around 3.30pm and found four men holed up there. The gang - Mehar, Palashe, Sagar and Moher - attacked the policemen, injuring three of them. 
 
 He said police opened fire at the gang in self-defence. Inspector B   and sub-inspector Annaiah opened fire. Mehare, Palashe and Sagar sustained injuries in their legs.
 
 
 
 
 City police took the January 18 Kodigehalli incident — where unidentified gangsters attacked Kodigehalli policemen — as a challenge.
 
 S Girish, deputy commissioner of police (northeast division), formed four teams. “We collected CCTV footage showing four miscreants, including Raysingh, at the scene of the incident. Later, we began collecting details about gangsters using stones to attack policemen. We came to know that Kadapa police in Andhra Pradesh had arrested a gang using a similar modus operandi three years ago. We got vital clues about a Madhya Pradesh-based gang from Kadapa and dispatched a team led by Yelahanka sub-division ACP Prabhakar Barki to Bhagoli village in Dhar district of Madhya Pradesh earlier this week,” Girish said.
 
 The team entered the village with help from local police on Thursday, but ran into a stonepelting mob. Arrows too were shot at the cops. Local police opened several rounds of fire in air before taking Raysingh, the main accused, into custody.
 
 Police officers said, the entire operation to nab Raysingh was reminiscent of scenes from the recent Tamil film, Theeran Adhigaaram Ondru, where policemen pursuing dacoits are attacked by denotifed tribesmen in a Rajasthan village. Girish said Barki and his men are still in Madhya Pradesh. “We have clue about three more suspects involved in the Kodigehalli case and our team will return once they nab them,” he added.
 
 
 
 
 Police commissioner T Suneel Kumar said the Bhagoli gangsters reached Bengaluru by buses via Pune. They stayed at bus stands and railway stations in the city and visited residential areas on the outskirts during the day to identify locked houses. “They broke into locked houses in the night and returned to their village by bus again,” he said.
 
 DCP Girish said the gangsters also chose areas near railway tracks so that they could run along them and escape from the city.
 
 The gang is involved in hundreds of house-break cases in several cities of southern India, including Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Chennai, Kadapa, Tumakuru and Mysuru. “We have detected two theft cases and hope to crack more cases soon,” Girish added.
 
 
