The scene outside DPS   – one of the   ( ) centres – this Sunday morning, showed tensed students and irked parents. No, it was not just because of the stress of the  , but also because of the strict dress code CBSE had announced. Whether they clear National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) or not was not the only concern, as there was one more test the aspirants couldn’t afford to fail – the security check!
And while students were paying attention to last minute preparations, parents made sure their kids adhered to the dress code. There were mothers who expertly took out their daughters’ nose rings, and smart dads who befriended the vendors outside the exam centre to keep their kids’ stuff. And till the time their son or daughter entered the examination hall, parents outside the exam centres didn’t move an inch. 
 
  
  An aspirant removes her wristwatch before entering the NEET examination hall
 
 
 
 Just like last year, candidates were asked to follow a strict dress code this year as well, and asked to not wear pendants, badges, brooches, shoes and heels. But despite the list of dos and don’ts, many aspirants missed a few things. 
 Fathers appeared to be coming to the rescue when it came to keeping their kids’ shoes, belts, and watches and even made friends with vendors outside the exam centre and convinced them to keep their things safe. Amit Kumar, an aspirant, told us, “We came here yesterday for a recce. Every few minutes, my dad got hold of a guy and was trying to get some information. Today, he even befriended a vendor and convinced him to keep my shoes with him when I realised that I forgot to wear slippers.”
 A juice vendor outside  , RK Puram, said, “Subah se 25-30 parents aa chuke hain, kehte hain, ‘Bhaiya, koi samaan rakhne ki zaroorat padhe toh rakh lena. Aur fir kuch log aaye aur shoes, belt, bag rakh kar gaye.”
 
  
  Girls also had to remove their earrings before entering the centre
 
 
 
 While the things that were mentioned in the rulebook were strictly followed by most, many things that were not mentioned in the rulebook were also barred. Girls wearing black threads on their ankles were asked to cut it. HN Arora, a parent, told us, “I spotted that a few girls were asked to cut the black threads, and my daughter was also wearing one. Since I had no scissors available, I had to hustle to find a paan shop in the morning to borrow one.” 
 
 
 
 Where there’s chaos, arguments follow soon. Gajraj Sinha, a parent who was juggling a water bottle and two bags, got really angry when his son came out and said that even sandals are not allowed. That’s when he raised his pitch and asked the teachers present outside KV, RK Puram’s gate, “This is not acceptable! My son was wearing sandals, which is allowed according to the rules, then why are you raising an objection? I took leave from office on Saturday to ensure that nothing goes wrong with his dress code. Can’t you read the notice that you have put up?” 
 SK Singh, whose son was asked to keep his sandals outside, shouted at the invigilators and guards. He said, “Hum log bhi padhe-likhe hain. Bewakoof samajh kar rakha hai?”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 A few students had to take out their   before entering the examination hall, and while some were asked to remove their belts, girls were even asked untie their hair and remove hairpins. Deepika, an aspirant, at a centre in Delhi, who had to come out to take-off her nose ring, said, “Thank god I’m with my mom today. I wouldn’t have known how to take out a nose ring without hurting myself!”
 
 
