BENGALURU: Young and energetic minds from across the state put on their argumentative avatars for an enriching closing event of the Federal Bank Speak for India – Karnataka Edition, in association with the Times of India and   on Thursday.

 Reaching the final round,   Shakir of NIT, Surathkal, and Shaasthra Shetty of the School of Communication, Manipal University, engaged in a heated debate over whether controversies were being used as a new-age marketing technique, and whether all-publicity was good-publicity in this hashtag era. Eight speakers spoke on topics pertinent to the state of the country today: the interlinking of rivers as a solution to the water crisis, whether startups in India had a future or not, and ultimately, whether controversies were being used as a marketing tool.
 
  
 Arguing for the interlinking of rivers,   of PESIT, South Campus Bengaluru said “We must accept this new technology to address our countries water woes. Our population is going to increase to 1.8 billion by 2050, and with this is going to come a serious need for food security. Increasing the land under irrigation will be essential.”
 
 Replying to this, Abhishek Kulkarni, from the College of Agriculture, Hassad said, “The linking of rivers will cost crores of rupees. Why can’t this money be given to farmers in the form of the minimum support price instead?”
 
 Arguing firmly for the motion in the final round, Shaasthra said there was no such thing as bad publicity, and that controversies around books or movies, tended to drive up sales. Fathima wondered what the point was of controversial-publicity if it came at the cost of a bounty being placed on an actress, or an author fleeing the country. The debate took an interesting turn towards the end when the judges asked the speakers to switch stands, with Fathima emerging the winner.
 
 Earlier, medical education minister Sharan Prakash Patil, said: “The youth should have the courage to live by the ideals they think are right. The younger generation backs out of politics, saying they aren’t fit for it. However, to take our country forward, we need young enterprising minds like yours.”
 
