Visakhapatnam: It’s been two years since the government initiated drives against   private schools in the city, but it seems the action has failed to yield the desired results. Many private schools in the city, which are not affiliated to any of the boards — neither the state board nor CBSE or ICSE — continue to function in utter disregard to the rules in place. In fact, many of them have been running since long.

 The recognised schools in the city are either affiliated to the Secondary School Certificate (SSC), Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) or Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE). However, according to a survey done by Consumer Rights Organisation (CRO), there are as many as 88 schools in the district which are not affiliated to any of these boards.
 
 “Our survey report, which has been submitted to the HRD ministry, found that apart from unrecognised schools, there are some schools in the city which are affiliated to the state board but claim to be CBSE-affiliated. Also, the ‘international’ and ‘techno’ tag is being falsely used by many schools which is misleading the parents,” said Vikas Pandey, state president of AP and in-charge of Telangana, CRO.
 
 He further added, “Although the unrecognised schools in the city were closed after strict orders from the government two years ago, most of them reopened within a year. The Consumer Rights Organisation, in collaboration with the district education office and with help from the district administration, will again start a movement against the prevailing corrupt education system.”
 
 When asked, district education officer Lingeswar Reddy said, “Unrecognised schools in the district have been served notices which they need to respond within the stipulated time-frame. We have been receiving many complaints, hence strong action will be taken against such schools very soon.”
 
 Earlier, a warning was issued to some schools by the CBSE that legal action will be taken against those who permit students from non-affiliated institutions to appear for board examinations, as there are recognised schools which sponsor students from non-affiliated schools.
 
 Subha Dalai, principal of Ralla Bella school, said: “We were informed by the DEO to remove the ‘international’ tag from our school as the school is not affiliated to   Board (IB). The hoardings which carried the international tag have been removed.”
 
 “We are now in the process of getting affiliation from the CBSE. After receiving No Objection Certificates (NOCs) from the authorities concerned, the letter was sent to the DEO for approval. Once we get the approval, we will apply online for CBSE recognition,” she added.
 
 
