CHENNAI: Just after school, when J S Dharmadheeran moved to Margao in Goa for college, the city threw open to him a fascinating life in the outdoors that went on to define his teens in a highly constructive way. Now a retired brigadier living in Chennai, Dharmadheeran lights up as he relives those warm evenings spent with friends lined up on the garden wall.

 "We would have endless conversations about football, movies and relationships over copious amounts of roasted peanuts. I think some of our strongest relationships developed over these evenings," he says.
 
 But several decades after those like Dharmadheeran spent their own adolescence revelling in the absolute joy of doing nothing, today’s youth seem to find it a rather alien concept. Naren Sivakumar, a class XI student, finds no reason to step out and meet his friends if there isn’t an agenda to it. For instance, if there are just three kids free on a particular evening, they’d all rather just stay home and watch TV, than meet up and "do nothing". "For a game of cricket, you need a minimum of five people. If we can’t play, we stay home and find something more engaging to do," says the 15-year-old.
 
 While parents acknowledge this change, they also point to newer contributors such as shrinking safe spaces and hectic schedules for kids. "They still hang out, but they now do it in malls and coffee shops. When I was young, there were plenty of grounds nearby where we would meet and play but now not every area has a park," says the mother of a teen. With our cities and towns turning increasingly unsafe, parents too feel better knowing their children are meeting friends in safe spaces. "Also, where is the time today for kids to meet up? If not at school, they are busy with tuition or extracurricular classes," she adds.
 
 But there’s nothing as "therapeutic" as an evening ritual of meeting your trusted friends in an environment that has the familiarity and comfort of a "frequented haunt", says professor S Karunanidhi, who heads the department of psychology at Madras University. In the olden days, these haunts ranged from the neighbourhood tea shops, to the temple and of course, the beach, which continues to draw locals who live nearby. 
 
 "The environment you live and interact in shapes your behaviour. Those days, when kids hung out after school, it created for them a spontaneous time and forum to discuss everything that happened to them during the day, with a peer group they trusted. This not just gave them a release, but also indirectly nurtured their communication skills," he says. This is, in fact, a much-needed ritual for adults too, say experts. "A dedicated time slot to meet your trusted friends can address any issues you may face on a day-to-day basis, preparing you to face the day afresh the next morning," adds Karunanidhi.
 
 Dharmadheeran admits that these interactions during his formative years, while seemingly carefree and purposeless, went on to define his life in the Army. "We grew up to be adjusting and empathetic, and naturally learnt what is referred to in today’s world as ‘team building abilities’. We grew the patience to stomach harmless, but relentless teasing, and since we planned and worked together, our interpersonal skills improved too," he says.
 
 Interestingly, if given the time and opportunity, there continues to be an inclination among some adolescents to spend time outdoors even today. Found most weekends at T Nagar’s Natesan Park is a group of students hailing from Namakkal and Salem who study in Chennai. "To small-towners like us,   are the perfect breather from the big city life. Our conversations become more real and meaningful in the middle of nature, and in an environment where we see children playing, people walking, and friends catching up. It’s a positive setting," says Raghavan A, one of the youths.
 
 For several old-timers in the city, such parks, including the Nageswara Rao park and Anna Nagar Tower park, besides other hot spots such as the erstwhile Woodlands drive-in, have been   zones that defined their youth and continue to be important socialising centres. City historian Pradeep Chakravarthy feels that now, coffee shops housed inside heritage homes and clubs serve the same purpose. "The culture hasn’t died out, but just shifted," he says.
 
 
