
 
 
 
 
 
 Yes, I agree that some of the cases are pending with us, but it would be wrong to say we have kept them on the backburner. We are working on them. We are planning to rope in more young officers in the CIA team of Panchkula police to crack the unsolved cases. We are still prob- ing the lawyer’s wife murder case.
 
 
 But you have failed to trace the body of the lawyer’s wife  , even after over 45 days of her murder. If you don’t have the body, you don’t have a case...
 
 No. The case is still on. We have got the court’s permission for the brain mapping and polygraph tests of the accused. We are working on some leads which I can’t disclose now. So far as the Saketri temple theft case is concerned, investigation is under progress. We are trying our best to solve all the cases.
 
 
 
 
 Incidents of snatching have taken place in Panchkula, but that doesn’t mean that criminals don’t fear the law now. The cases in which snatchers entered houses in Panchkula are very few. Teams of CIA and local cops are on alert and the accused involved in the snatching cases would be nabbed very soon. We have got leads in some of the cases and they would be solved soon.
 
 
 Well, I do admit there is a problem. No doubt many criminals have used this road to flee, but now we are going to increase patrolling on this road. We are also installing 19 fresh high-end CCTV cameras at all entry/exit points of the city. After the installation of CCTV cameras, it will be easy for us to catch the accused.
 
 
 
 We have appropriate number of officers as well as constables in our police force. The problem is related to the shortage of investigation officers (IOs) including assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) and sub-inspectors (SIs). The government is filling the vacant posts throughout   soon and the problem will be sorted out soon.
 
 
 
 
 In 2017, we issued over 1 lakh traffic challans to offenders. Various awareness campaigns and competitions were also organised by the traffic wing to ensure people don’t break traffic rules. It’s an ongoing process and traffic wing is working on it on a regular basis.   through CCTV cameras was also introduced last year.
 
