Panaji: The 9th edition of the Goa  , an event held by the state once every two years, will see awards presented to Konkani and Marathi films made by Goan filmmakers in over 19 categories. The films participating for the awards will be screened immediately prior to and after the awards as well, and the screenings will be open to the general public. The awards ceremony will be held on April 24. 
 
 The awards event is being held at a cost of Rs 1 crore, and around eight films produced by Goan filmmakers during the last two years are expected to participate, Entertainment Society of Goa (ESG) vice-chairperson Rajendra Talak said on Wednesday. 
  
 Films that were completed between January 1, 2016, and December 31, 2017, will be eligible for the state awards. Films should have a censor certification and English subtitles to be eligible for the award. 
  
 The last date to submit the films is March 25, 2018. The films will be awarded in the feature film and non-feature film categories. In the feature film category, the award under each head will be awarded separately to Konkani and Marathi films. Non-feature films will be a combined category for Konkani and Marathi films, Talak said. 
  
 Films of which a minimum of 15% onscreen artists and 15% main technicians are of Goan origin or have at least 15 years domicile in Goa will be eligible to enter the awards. 
  
 The best film will get Rs 5 lakh as cash prize and the second film in the category will be awarded Rs 3 lakh. 
  
 The first and second prizes for the best director will carry a cash prize of Rs 50,000 and Rs 35,000, respectively. Other categories in the feature film section will include for best actor, actress, child artiste, supporting actor, supporting actress, best story, best screenplay, best dialogues, best lyrics, best music director, best playback singer male and female, best editor, best cinematography and such categories. 
  
 The best non-feature film award will get a prize of Rs 1 lakh. Entries have to be submitted on www.esg.co.in. 
  
  
