GUWAHATI: Spring was ushered in with a riot of colours, prayers and bonding with friends and families here. Also on the cards was awareness-creation for a clean and green environment which culminated in a bicycle rally stressing on carbon-free air. The police kept a special watch on drink driving and set up check posts to haul up bikers who were breaking rules. Breath analysers were used to ensure there were no untoward incidents during the festival. 

 For youngsters, it was a time for renewing bonds with old friends as they splashed each other with colours. Water colours and 'gulal' ruled the streets as revellers bathed the city in myriad hues. Herbal colours were also in demand for those conscious of the harmful effects of using chemical hues. 
 
 "We have been celebrating Holi with our friends since our school days," gushed Jayanta Sharma. He added that they visit friend's homes and play Holi there. For most people, it was a day out for fun and food.
 
 Some celebrated the festival for a cause: saving the environment. With an eye on keeping the air we breathe clean, a bicycle rally was organized covering about 40 km. About 70 cyclists joined the rally riding all the way from the city to the outskirts. Samrat Dev, a member of the   (GCC), which organized the rally, said the objective of the ride was to create awareness and also provide recreation. "There were no fees for joining the rally, anyone could be part of the celebration and awareness drive. This is also a way to encourage greater participation from all walks of life," he said. "Cycling should be a habit with the people and this is the best way to cut down on pollution," he stressed.
 
 The cyclists meandered their way through the Last Gate Road and Basistha to the ecologically fragile water body,  , via national highway 37. "We celebrated Holi here without disturbing the peace and cleanliness of the place," said Arshel Akhter, another member of the group and a fitness enthusiast. The pristine ambience of the freshwater lake provided an ideal backdrop for taking a pledge to keep pollution at bay.
 
 In Manipur, the five-day Yaoshang (Holi) festival got under way on Friday with the participation of local clubs and NGOs. Besides sporting activities, people took part in prayers and a general air of festivity bathed the place. Most of the clubs lit torch flames from the sacred Kangla fort in Imphal city before moving towards their respective sports venues.
 
  performed the traditional Holi Pala and sang devotional songs at various worship places, including the historic   temple, at the palace compound in Imphal. 
 
 
