Pune: The plastic ban has had a negative impact on restaurants, which have registered a drop in the number of carry parcels and home deliveries. One more sector facing a similar impact is the sweet manufacturing and selling industry.

 Sweet shop operators — who have always used plastic bags and containers to package sweets — are in a dilemma over the course of action to be taken after the state government’s deadline banning single-use plastics. Expecting a rise in input costs due to various expensive alternatives, sweet shop owners have hinted at a rise in prices of sweets, thus hitting the consumers’ pockets.
 
 Speaking about the utility of plastics, Indraneel Chitale of Chitale Bandhu Mithaiwale said, “Retailing of liquid-based products post the plastic ban is a problem as syrup spillage can be cumbersome for customers while taking the product home. Also, plastic increases shelf life of some products. Eliminating plastic means certain products cannot be sold for consumption beyond stores.” 
 
 Chitale said the ban should have been announced in a phased manner rather than a single blanket policy. “The supply chain of biodegradable alternatives is not yet strong enough to cater to the total demand. The alternative material is prohibitively expensive than the standard packaging material. This will affect product pricing as input cost will go up, affecting customers. With a progressive ban, industries could have adopted alternative supply chains and switched gradually,” he added. 
 
 V M Chaudhari, owner of Durga Sweets, Shivajinagar, said, “We use plastic not only to package liquid-based sweets, but also to keep stocks fresh. Plastic cling wraps are used to cover trays to keep sweets fresh and prevent contamination due to flies. We will try to use paper as an alternative as much as possible. However, we are still unsure of how to pack farsan (a salty snack) and sweets like roshogulla and gulab jamun, and other sweets for customers to carry home. Even the food grade plastic containers have been banned leaving us with no clear alternative at the moment.”
 
 Chaudhari said opting for containers made of other material is set to reflect in a price hike. “We can use corn starch bags, containers made of wood or leaves, but these products are more expensive than plastic bags and using these will have a direct impact on the price of sweets,” he added.
 
 
