MUMBAI: He has become the toast of the nation ever since he slammed a winning unbeaten hundred against India in the final of the ICC Under-19 World Cup, but  , it seems, was just having some ‘fun’ out there.

 
 “It was a great feeling (to get a century). I was nervous in the beginning, but slowly grew in confidence. The wicket was flat and it was fun playing on that pitch,” Kalra told to TOI here on Monday, after he and his mates returned home as cricket’s Under-19 world champions.
 
 
 
 
 
 Still, for Kalra, there have been bigger challenges than batting for his team. His career has been plagued with allegations of age fraud since he started playing, but the 19-year-old draws strength from his parents to overcome a crisis of this sort every time.
 
 
 
 
 
 “A few people spoke about it (allegations of him being overage) before this tournament, but I underwent medical tests and the results were clear, and I guess they (those who came up with the allegations) got their answer. It was difficult for me in the beginning, but my parents supported me. It was difficult to come out of it, but slowly I have come out of it, and performed well,” said the batsman.
 
 
 
 
 
 “My parents always guide me through these controversies. They say that people say a lot of things, but you concentrate on your cricket. I’m very attached to my mom. She supported me the most,” he said, adding, “My father has a fruits’ business in the mandi (market) and my mom is a housewife. Both have played a major role in my life. I play for them,” he said.
 
 “In my childhood, when I used to go to school, my father used to wait for me to come back so that I could play cricket. My brother used to play cricket too and I used to go to the ground for fun. Dad used to then concentrate on my brother, but then when I started playing he took care of me too. He would keep my cricket kit ready. I used to eat lunch also while going for practice in my car,” remembered the batsman.
 
 “We’ve played together for a while now,” Kalra said of his understaing with skipper and fellow opener  . “We bonded well, and that’s the main thing which has helped our pair. We guide each other in the innings. Whenever we feel anyone is becoming casual (at the wicket), we pump up each other up. He is a very good batsman. You can see his performance,” he added.
 
 
