KOLKATA: The school, where a Class IX student was allegedly molested on Thursday, made the right moves to ensure justice for the student, which made the parents happy, and ruled out an unrest that could have spun out of control.

 Unlike other three schools, which sought to cover up similar allegations, this school made no attempt to deny the incident, gave parents a patient hearing and quickly lodged a police complaint. None of the other three schools had gone to the police, though the latter said they have only received a complaint from the girls’ parents. While the school authorities managed to pacify the parents by being proactive, the victim’s mother has alleged that she was ‘pushed to strike a compromise and desist from lodging a police complaint’. Later, however, the school authorities said they would extend all possible help to bring the culprit to book.
 
 The government-sponsored school has several male security guards and Group D staff, but no CCTV camera. Immediately after the girls’ parents lodged a complaint with the teacher-in-charge, the authorities swung into action. First, the parents were heard for nearly an hour on Thursday. Soon after the parents returned to the school on Friday with a written complaint, the teacher-incharge forwarded it to the local police station. This was in stark contrast to the mistakes that had been made at other schools.
 
 It helped to soothe the frayed nerves and ensure discipline. The parents were not aggressive as the chance to meet the authorities and the quick action taken by the school left no room for complaints. “Our kids have been studying in this school from
 
 nursery. It could have happened to my daughter. The school was cooperative so we saw no reason to create a ruckus. We don’t believe in hooliganism,” said Ratan Das, a parent.
 
 The school also made sure not to go overboard while communicating with parents. The school which faced a ruckus last November had sent out a letter to parents in which the victim had been named. It had added fuel to the simmering agitation. In contrast, no effort was made by this school to inform all parents. Instead, it chose to meet the parents of the student involved and a select group which represented the rest. It quelled a potential parents’ unrest. “My primary objective is to ensure security for my students. The school, parents and teachers are all there for the girls. We have handed over the parents’ written complaint to police,” said the teacher-in-charge But all is not well with the school, parents maintained. There has been a security lapse, they pointed out and measures ought to be taken to prevent a repeat. On Saturday, they submitted a list of demands to the school, which included installation of CCTV cameras on campus and removal of male attendants.
 
 Some guardians also alleged that the accused had faced similar charges a few months back. “Back then, the matter died down because the charges were not so serious. Also, the parents did not insist to take the matter further,” said a parent.
 
 
  
 
