BENGALURU: Why is a packet of popcorn costlier than the movie ticket in most cinema halls across the city?

 This was the question that came up for public discussion on Friday following the Bombay high court’s observations while hearing a petition challenging the high prices of food and beverages in theatres. The court had directed the authorities to frame a policy to streamline pricing or explore the option of allowing outside food in movie halls.
 
 In the backdrop of the ruling, moviegoers in Bengaluru want state authorities to take cognisance of the problem and crack down against those who charge more than the maximum retail price ( ) of food products. Some have even sought a cap on rates.
 
 “It is illegal to charge more than the MRP for food and water bottles in cinema halls. While many single-screen theatres are following the norm, a few theatre owners and multiplexes are violating it. The government must come up with a strong policy against this,” said K V  , former president, Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce .
 
 Government officials and tax experts, however, said there is no need of formulating a new policy as the existing rules are enough to curb  . “As per rule 18(2) of Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules 2011, it’s a crime to sell commodities over and above MRP,” said M Mamatha, assistant controller of Karnataka Legal Metrology, which launched a drive against MRP violators and brought hundreds of traders to book.
 
 B T  , member of the state government’s GST advisory council, said traders in movie theatres can’t decide the selling price of commodities as they are sold and not served like in hotels. “In hotels, they may open the water bottle before serving, hence it’s regarded as a service and they can decide the basic price. Movie theatres and multiplexes can’t do this,” reasoned Manohar.
 
 Noting that MRP violation is a menace,  , MD of Garuda Mall, said he will write to the   running multiplexes in his malls, asking them to ensure commodities are sold at MRP. Mohit Bhargava, vice-president of Inox Group, said: “Food counters issue invoices in GST format so there can’t be MRP violations. A consumer can question the bill and even refuse to buy the product if he feels he’s being overcharged.”
 
