NAGPUR: The state Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has registered six more offences in the ongoing irrigation scam investigations. The cases two years after the ACB began a probe into 40 tenders granted under the Gosikhurd dam project.

 With the six offences registered on Tuesday, 14 FIRs have been filed in the case till date. Private contractor Jayant Khalatkar has been added to the list of those booked now. So far, FIRs have been registered against four private contractors and nearly a dozen Vidarbha irrigation   (VIDC) officials, including former executive director DP Shirke.
 
 Khalatkar is known to be close to the   and was vying for the MLC’s post from Chimur in Chandrapur district. Sitting MLC Mitesh Bhangadia is also under the scanner. But he has not been personally named in any FIR. An offence has been registered against his employee, who carried out the day-to-day affairs under a power of attorney.
 
 The common charge in all FIRs so far is wrongful escalation of cost of tenders. The VIDC officials named in the FIR have been accused of overlooking the norms while increasing the price. Sources say the inflated amount comes to over Rs60 crore in all, or Rs10-12 crore for each case mentioned in the FIRs filed on Tuesday.
 
 The pattern of other allegations in recent FIRs is also similar to the earlier ones. Sanjay Kholapurkar, a former officer on special duty (OSD) with Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, has been named in all six recent FIRs. The earlier FIRs also mention Kholapurkar, who was a VIDC officer before taking up an assignment as OSD with Gadkari.
 
 Apart from flouting the norms to inflate cost, cartelization is also a common charge in all FIRs. In three out of the six cases, it was found that tender was allotted to a joint venture (JV) of private firms, without the mandatory registration of partnership deed.
 
 The first FIR, out of the six filed on Tuesday, is related to the tender granted for a section of right bank canal of Gosikhurd dam. The contract was awarded to a JV between M/s Khalatkar Construction, and Srinivasa Construction Company. The latter belongs to  , a MLA from  , who has been named in earlier FIRs too.
 
 The contract was granted in the JV’s name but the work order was issued by VIDC to Jayant Khalatkar of M/s Khalatkar Construction in his private capacity. The cartelization is apparent from the fact that the earnest money deposit of other firms participating in the tender came from the JV’s account. The charges are similar in other cases too.
 
 Apart from 14 in the Gosikhurd case, one FIR has also been registered for a tender granted for   in Buldhana district by the ACB’s Amravati unit.
 
 
