MUMBAI: The   government on Thursday told the Bombay high court that citizens using banned plastic items can be penalized since the March 23 notification barring   came into effect immediately. Citizens have been given three months’ time to only dispose of the banned items by handing them over to the corporation or recycling or selling it to an authorised recycler.

 It also informed the court that the government has modified its notification on Wednesday to revoke the ban on PET bottles of less than 500ml capacity and given manufacturers three months’ time to dispose of the banned bottles.
 
 A division bench of Justices Abhay Oka and Riyaz Chagla asked the state why the same benefit had not been extended to the public. “The manufacturers have been given three months’ time to dispose of their stock, but will the same benefit be given to common citizens?” asked the bench. “What will happen if a common man is found with such a plastic bottle? How will she or he know if the plastic bottle that they possess meets with the criterion laid down by the government?” the court asked.
 
 Senior advocate S P Bharucha said such people would be penalized, adding: “The state has to start somewhere.” The government pointed out that citizens have also got three months to dispose of their banned plastic items, and that manufacturers cannot sell their existing stock of banned plastic items in the state.
 
 The court admitted the petitions filed by manufacturers challenging the ban on plastic, plastic bottles and thermocol, and is scheduled to continue on Friday dictation of the order on pleas for interim relief.
 
 On March 23, 2018, the Maharashtra government through a notification banned the manufacture, sale and use of plastic bags, disposable plastic spoons, forks, cups, glasses, containers, PET bottles less than 500 ml, and thermocol for decoration. The ban was brought under the Maharashtra Non-Biodegradable Garbage (Control) Act enacted in 2006. On April 11, it modified the rules, and allowed PET bottles of all capacity “made of high quality food grade virgin Bisphenol-A free material” with a pre-defined buyback policy printed on it. The manufacturers would also have to set up collection centres, reverse vending machines and crushing machines at different places.
 
 The manufacturers have claimed that the prohibition on plastic was illegal and the state did not have powers to impose the blanket ban via an executive fiat. The petitioners have said the ban affected the fundamental right to livelihood of lakhs of families. They have sought the court’s intervention to overturn the ban and interim orders to defer the manufacture, sale and use of plastic.
 
