MANGALURU: The   Examinations Authority (KEA) will commence optional entry from Tuesday, for non-Kannadigas, who were earlier left out on the domicile criteria.

 This move comes after the Supreme Court nixed the Karnataka domicile rule for postgraduate medical seats. Last Wednesday, the SC in its order, told the state government to strike down the ‘Karnataka origin’ criteria and issue the fresh notification for NEET-PG admissions, for aspirants from outside the state. With this, thousands of aspirants from outside Karnataka, who completed their undergraduate education in Karnataka, and seeking state quota in PG seats in medical/dental colleges, who were earlier denied admission, are eligible to get seats as per their NEET rankings.
 
 The KEA will upload a   on its new website on Monday. Dr Sachidanand, director, medical education department, Bengaluru, speaking to TOI, confirmed that fresh notifications will be uploaded on KEA websites on Monday, and optional entry for those from outside the state will commence from Tuesday.
 
 In an earlier notification, which had a ‘Karnataka origin’ clause, optional entry commenced from March 25 and mock allotment results were to be announced in March, which was stayed by the SC. “The fresh notification for optional entry will be only for students from outside the state,” clarified Sachidanand.
 
 With this new notification, aspirants from outside the state are allowed to choose government and government quota medical/dental seats based on their NEET rankings.
 
 Meanwhile, Sachidanand also said the state department of medical education has written to the central government for clarifications, following the SC order on Wednesday, over domicile criteria.
 
 Sources claim the issue of new notification will create chaos, as there is a shortage of time, and the state is going in for elections next month. As per the directions of the  , the admissions to PG courses should be completed by May 18. “The Department is also planning to write to the Centre on extending the deadline for admissions,” added the source.
 
 
