CHANDIGARH: Taking defaulting colleges to task for embezzlement of post-matric scholarship amount of SCs and OBCs students,   government has a proposal to recover Rs 372.80 crore misappropriated amount from them, along with 9% interest.

 The agenda is being placed for deliberations in the state cabinet meeting scheduled for May 31. In the same meeting, the council of ministers will also take a decision on one-time settlement policy for regularization of buildings within the municipal limits that fulfil safety and parking norms but have minor building violations. The state government is going to take the ordinance route to bring in the policy that will cover only non-compoundable buildings violations. As per the proposed buildings’ regularization policy, those partly violating municipal building bylaws will be regularized on as-is, where-is basis only up to 50% of the permissible floor area ratio. It is learnt that the policy would mostly be benefiting the commercial buildings.
 
 After coming to power, the Congress government had on June 16 last year ordered special audit of 3,606 colleges and technical institutes claiming post-matric   for SCs/OBCs from 2011-12 to 2016-17. The audit of all colleges was completed in December last year in which an embezzlement of Rs 372.80 crore was detected. Punjab SC/BC welfare minister   had assured the Punjab assembly of strict action against colleges found defaulting in the audit during the budget session.
 
 Due to the audit process the state government had stopped the release of the post-matric scholarship amount to colleges. The Punjab Unaided Colleges Association (PUCA) had been demanding release of the scholarship money at least to those colleges who were found adhering to rules in the audit. In the 2018-19 annual budget, the state government has kept an outlay of Rs 860 crore for the scholarship. Also, the central government is yet to release its share of the scheme amounting to Rs 1,615 crore to the state government. The amount also includes Rs 328.72 crore for 2015-16 and Rs 719.52 crore for 2016-17. Those SC students are eligible under the scholarship scheme whose parents have less than Rs 2.50 lakh annual income whereas annual income for OBC students’ parents should be less than Rs 1 lakh.
 
 
