While Hollywood churned out some big ticket blockbusters last year, human dramas won hearts as well. Here’s looking at some of the most-awaited American films and events of this year. 

 
 
 
 
 
 The third instalment in the Avengers series and first part of the Marvel Cinematic Universe’s epic finale — Avengers: Infinity War will be out this year. The film sees  , Thor,   and the rest of the Avengers, teaming up with the Guardians Of The Galaxy to thwart supervillain Thanos (played by Josh Brolin) in his quest to claim the Infinity Stones. Loki is back in this one. A giant superhero orgy of sorts, this epic conclusion is one of the biggest films to come out this year. What makes it more special is that Indian audience will get to watch the film a week before its US release! 
 
 
 All eyes will be on Chadwick Boseman as he will helm Marvel’s first solo black superhero movie — Black Panther in its current cinematic universe, led by a predominantly black star cast. Given the ongoing racism row in Hollywood, the film will not only appeal to fans but will also make a solid socio-political statement.
 
 
 
 A mercenary who cracks adult humour, kicks ass and bares his own —   is outstanding as Deadpool and he returns with a sequel this year. The teaser of Deadpool 2 is hilarious so you can tell what to expect from this satirical and self-deprecating humour-led superhero instalment. 
 
 
 
 Hugh Jackman may have bid an emotional farewell to Logan last year but the mutants must continue to fight. X-Men: Dark Phoenix is the follow-up to X-Men: Apocalypse and intended to be the 13th instalment in the X-Men film series. This time around, the X-men must tackle a team member (Jean Grey), who begins to develop incredible powers that corrupt and turn her into a Dark Phoenix.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 While it was the   (the strongest female hero in the DC Universe), who singlehandedly kept the DC flag flying last year, it will be interesting to see if DC can follow that up with another solo outing Aquaman. After Justice League, Jason Momoa gets a self-titled movie. Will the superhero with the ability to harness the power of the ocean be able to woo 
 the fans?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom will give you a thrill of watching the dinosaurs destroy the island once again. Chris Pratt and   return in this sequel.
 
 
 After the release of Star Wars: The Last Jedi, the excitement of the Han Solo prequel film, Solo: A   Story among the Star Wars fans, has reached its peak and this is what they will look forward to this year.
 
 
 
 Oscar winner Alicia Vikander plays Lara Croft in the upcoming Tomb Raider movie reboot based on the iconic video game character. She takes over from   and it will be interesting to see how she portrays her first full-fledged action role.
 
 
 
 Tom Cruise returns as agent Ethan Hunt for the sixth time in M:I 6 - Mission Impossible and we aren’t complaining. After a spectacular Mission: Impossible - Rogue Nation, Rebecca Ferguson is back to team up with Cruise for yet another action adventure. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 The third instalment of the hit horror franchise — Insidious: The Last Key brings back Lin Shaye as Dr. Elise Rainier, a parapsychologist looking into the haunting of her own family home. This franchise has been interesting so far and here’s hoping it continues to scare the living daylights out of us.
 
 
 
 Big, bigger, biggest! A truly massive action entertainer, John Boyega leads a new generation of Jaeger pilots in the sequel ( ) to the bombastic giant-robot-versus-giant-monsters battle royale. 
 
 
 
 Comprising all-women cast, Sandra Bullock has clarified that Ocean’s 8 is not a remake or a direct sequel to 2001 crime comedy Ocean’s Eleven that starred George Clooney, Brad Pitt, Matt Damon and other A-listers. The actress has said that it’s more of a spiritual successor that has a direct link to the well-liked Ocean’s trilogy. Interesting! 
 
 
 
 
 
  The film focuses on a 15-year period from the formation of rock band Queen and lead singer   (played by Rami Malek) up to their performance at Live Aid in 1985, six years before Mercury’s death. Bryan Singer was originally hired to direct the film. However, he was fired and Dexter Fletcher was hired on December 6 to complete the shooting and post-production.
 
 
 
 The American-Australian thriller directed by Anthony Maras tells the astonishing true story of the victims and survivors of the devastating terror attack on Mumbai in 2008. While a few Indian films have been made on the unfortunate incident, it will be interesting to see the film from an outsider's perspective. The film’s cast — Anupam Kher, Dev Patel and Armie Hammer is promising too. 
 
 
 
