Vadodara: A team of Chhota Udepur police came under attack by over a dozen bootleggers when they raided their den in Ghoghadev village on Monday afternoon. Cops had to fire 13 rounds in the air to scare off the bootlegger who were pelting stones and shooting arrows at them.

 According to police, they had got information about a tanker carrying liquor from Ghoghadev village. The cops found the tanker and also seized liquor bottles from it. They arrested the tanker driver Gaurang alias Nano Parmar and another person Kamlesh Parmar. The duo told the police that they had got the liquor from Ghoghadev village from two pick-up vans in an open plot. A team immediately rushed to Ghoghadev village.
 
 When the police reached the spot, they could not find the two vehicles. “The plot was in interior village and there were no proper roads. We found tyre marks of vehicles and tracked it to a hillock where the two pick-up vans were parked,” said assistant superintendent of Chhota Udepur police Dharmendra Sharma, who conducted the raid.
 
 As the cops got out of the car, around 10-12 persons started pelting stones and shooting arrows from top of the hillock. Cops took cover behind trees and cars, but when the pelting did not stop they fired in the air. “After firing 13 rounds in air, the pelting and shooting stopped and the attackers fled,” added Sharma.
 
 From the pick-up van, the police found 450 boxes of liquor and beer cans worth Rs 17 lakh. Police officials said that Ghoghadev being an interior village is very close to Madhya Pradesh border. Bootleggers bring consignment from the neighbouring state in pick-up vans and distribute it in small quantity from Ghoghadev.
 
 Three FIRs were filed in connection with the incident. At Chhota Udepur police station, Gaurang and Kamlesh were booked for prohibition, another prohibition complaint was registered at Rangpur police station regarding the seizure of liquor consignment and another complaint against unidentified mob for deterring public servant from discharging duty, attempt to murder and rioting.
 
 
