KOCHI: Whenever talks of   happened, Kerala always found a   and the same was seen in the report by professional services firm Ernst & Young (EY) titled: The future of digital is human - Getting India ready.

 EY’s report, which was released at #Future digital summit in Kochi, studied the digital journey of India and gauged how technologies are redefining the human experience. While tracking the growth of digital technology in India, the report focused on three aspects of Kerala: first digital state in India, e-health and emphasis on cyber security.
  
  
 
 Two years ago, the then President of India Pranab Mukherjee had declared Kerala as India’s first digital state. EY report looked closely at various aspects that helped Kerala meaningfully hold onto that title. The major factors include a mobile tele-density of over 115% vs 91% for India in 2017. Kerala was also the first Indian state to declare access to internet as a basic human right. The internet penetration of 52% vs 33% for India and over 80% of internet users are on broadband, the report said.
 
 “There is no question that there is huge potential for digital technology in Kerala. The state has high digital literacy. The normal technology adoption rate we see in Kerala is far better than that of other states. In terms of picking up new technology and gadgets, the pace is quite high here,” said EY, director (markets & business development)  , who came up with the report.
 
  that state government was trying to make Kerala a 100% e-literate society. “The state has over 3,000 paperless government offices that deliver 30,000 e-certificates daily. Kerala also has more than 2,650 Akshaya centres, creating awareness about e-governance and digital connectivity in rural and urban areas,” the report noted.
 
 Government’s focus on e-health was the second factor. “The e-health project envisages the development of electronic health records (EHR) and end-toend automation of all government healthcare institutions, along with the integration of an electronic demographic database. Through this project, government aims to lower infant mortality rate, maternal mortality, reduce avoidable deaths due to noncommunicable diseases. The project is already on a pilot run in 12 healthcare institutions in the capital and will be scaled up across seven districts,” it said.
 
 The third point was cyber security. “The government has set up computer emergency response team-Kerala (CERT-K) along the lines of CERT India. The purpose of CERT-K is to   and incident response for IT threats and enhance the security of government’s IT infrastructure through proactive action and effective collaboration. CERT-K also oversees the implementation of crisis management plan of the government,” the report said.
 
