BENGALURU/DHARWAD: Chief minister Siddaramaiah and his government appear to be in a bind over according minority status to  . Wednesday’s cabinet meeting on the issue was deferred, and it is unlikely that the next meeting on March 19 will spell out a stand either.

 On Thursday, nearly 50 Veerashaiva pontiffs led by the powerful Panchacharyas who represent Veerashaivaism, met the CM and demanded that the government reject the report of an expert committee that has favoured according minority religion status to Lingayats, but excluding the Veerashaivas. “The issue needs long deliberations. Until such time, the government should restrain from accepting the report and making any recommendation to the Centre,’’ said Sri Dingaleshwara Swami of Balehosur mutt.
 
 In Dharward, Tontadarya mutt seer Sri Siddalinga Swami, who favours separate religion status for Lingayats, condemned the attitude of the Panchacharyas and dubbed them “sadists”.
 
 
 
 
 The Veerashaiva pontiffs, in a memorandum to the CM, have warned of a massive agitation if the government goes ahead with its plan to recommend to the Centre that minority status be granted only to Lingayats.
 
 “The panel report is one-sided and lacks perception. The report is tilted heavily towards the   faction, largely because a majority of the experts were from the community. The issue is serious and needs long deliberations with experts representing different sects within the religion,” said Sri Dingaleshwara Swami of Balehosur mutt, after submitting the memorandum to the CM.
 
 In the memorandum, the delegation of seers stated that Veerashaiva-Lingayat was an ancient religion established by Lord Shiva, propagated through panchacharyas (pontiffs), while Basavanna and other sharanas are its followers. “The recent development has not only pained us, but also diverted our attention towards safeguarding our religion. We urge the government to take a favourable decision by rejecting the report,” the memorandum said.
 
 “There are about 3,000 Veerashaiva-Lingayat pontiffs but only a handful of them are supporting those conspiring to split the community. The CM, who comes from a socialist background, should not heed such pressure and take a hasty step as it may lead to a vertical divide of the community. Siddaramaiah should consider the perception of the Veershaivas and Lingayats before taking any decision,” said Chandrashekar Shivacharya Swamiji of  .
 
 A week after the state-appointed expert committee headed by Justice H N Nagamohan Das submitted its report favouring minority religion status to Lingayats, the government has been dilly-dallying on accepting the report, following stiff resentment against it within the party and outside. It was forced to defer cabinet discussions twice; it is expected to come up again for discussion on March 19.
 
 According to sources, some Muslim leaders have also expressed concern over including Lingayats under the minority category, fearing that it may harm their reservation quota.
 
 
