 has begun investigations into the   incident, which led to 17 deaths on Saturday. The police brass shifted the case to the department on Sunday afternoon as it requires extensive investigations and follow up.

 Sources say the probe remains focussed on norms flouted by the factory, indicating that more arrests were likely on the grounds of negligence.
 
 Cops are likely to ask Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation officials to join investigations. DSIIDC issues licences for factories.
 
 The arrested factory owner,  , was produced before a magistrate and sent to Tihar jail. Cops are likely to seek his remand on Monday. The initial probe indicates that Jain and his business partner, Lalit Goel, had sought a licence to manufacture toys but were actually manufacturing crackers which were apparently being sold online.
 
 Police sources say Jain, a resident of Tri Nagar, was returning from a business trip to Mumbai when one of his business partners, Girish, informed him about the fire. Jain then went straight to meet another partner, Lalit Goel, in west Delhi home and was planning to leave the city.
 
 However, a police team tracked Jain near the airport and apprehended him. During interrogations, Jain maintained that the factory was owned by him, and Goel was his adviser. Police say he would be interrogated further to find out about the illegal crackers.
 
 Jain has a son who is a partner in the business. Police are also questioning the owner of the building, Subhash Mittal, who had rented it out to Jain, a fortnight back. Cops have sought the rent agreement to verify the clauses agreed upon by the two.
 
 Among the dead in the fire were factory supervisor Ajit Ranjan, nine male and seven female workers who belong to UP, Bihar and Jharkhand. Their families have been informed.
 
 “Police had created an information-cum-helpdesk at the Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital and deputed staff who facilitated in identifying the victims with the help of relatives. Autopsies have so far been conducted on 12 bodies. Three of the dead, two men and a woman, are yet to be identified,” said DCP (Rohini district) Rajneesh Gupta.
 
 The forensic teams visited the factory again on Sunday and extensively scanned the premises for about four hours and collected samples for examination. It was found that apart from Jain, the work at the factory was also being supervised by Goel, Girish and and a man named Kale, whom the cops are trying to trace.
 
 Regarding flouting of norms, officials said that though construction of the building was as per building bylaws, it was found that grilles had been illegally installed in order to prevent thefts. This had led to workers being trapped inside when the fire broke out.
 
 Cops are verifying Jain’s claim that he did not need a licence for these crackers. A probe has also been initiated to verify the allegations that the exit gate of the building was locked from outside to prevent workers from fleeing with raw materials.
 
 
