Last week, a hand-picked, eclectic mix of Bengaluru’s   achievers from varied fields received a personal invite from former actress and current head of a national political outfit’s social media and digital communications — Ramya a.k.a.   — for an hour-long session on a Sunday afternoon. The meet, incidentally, was put together to create a platform for these women to interact with party president  .

  Simple agenda alright and in spite of it being a relaxed and lazy Sunday afternoon, most of the invitees were at the venue well in advance for the mandatory security check. The guests included the city’s business honchos, theatre and film personalities, LGBTQIA+ activists, artists, dancers and musicians, Dalit leaders, entrepreneurs, writers, etc.The mood before the session was mostly filled with curiosity: ‘I am just here to see what this is all about’, ‘I wonder if Rahul Gandhi is really the way he has been portrayed in the media’, ‘I want to ask him what plans he has for our country and our state’ to ‘I don’t have any questions, I just want to listen’.
 
  The session began a wee bit later than the scheduled time, and further setting the mood for what was to be a warm and pleasant interaction was the fact that Ramya introduced each and every guest at the 13-odd tables at the venue to Rahul, who, in turn, greeted each one with a firm handshake. Discreetly presiding over the interaction at the back of the room were some of the party’s current leaders, including Chief Minister Siddaramaiah.
 
  The questions began, thereafter, and the topics ranged from very serious ones on safety of those who dare to voice their opinions, education vs talent and skills, leadership, role of women in society and politics, misuse of the internet, dealing with hate, issues faced by the LGBTQIA+ community and foreign policies, to lighter ones about fitness. Rahul not only seemed open to various suggestions on possible solutions and changes on issues regarding the way BBMP’s tasks ought to be administered and to relook democracy in practice in a way that it is more inclusive of minorities of society, but he also chose to answer questions with interesting anecdotes to connect them to his learnings in life, his ideas and, therefore, the question at hand.
 
  With so much carefully packed in within the hour, there might have been many more questions left to be asked, but the shift in the mood was more than visible. And comments ranged from — ‘He is so human’, ‘I never expected him to be so articulate’, ‘He seemed spontaneous, I don’t know how that could have been rehearsed’, to ‘I managed to get a picture with him’. All in all, it was well structured strategy that served its purpose, and made for a fine Sunday afternoon indeed.
 
 
