THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A freak accident at the   railway station has cost a 25-year-old youth his legs.

 Chandhu, a railway cleaning employee, was hit by the rake of a train that was being shunted, reportedly from behind, around 8.45pm on Wednesday. 
 
  fell under the train and got trapped between the train and the track, witness who pulled him out told relatives. His legs were badly crushed in the incident.
 
 Though the railway authorities and his friends rushed him to the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital, the doctors there could not save his legs despite performing an emergency surgery. 
 
 Chandhu’s legs had to be amputated as the injuries were too severe to heal and a drastic measure was essential to save his life, they said.
 
 The youth had worked as an auto driver and a coolie before joining as a railway cleaning employee last month. 
 
 “He used to clean both the insides of the coaches as well as the tracks. We were informed about the accident by the railway authorities around 9pm,” said Mohanakumar, Chandhu’s uncle.
 
 Chandhu is a resident of Mandapathinkadavu. His parents depend on Chandhu and his brother Vinod, an auto driver, for their daily needs. 
 
 He had taken up the cleaning job with the railways to find additional income to take care of his family.
 
 Chandhu’s working hours as a cleaning employee was between 8pm and 5am.
 
 Chandhu, who had lost his consciousness immediately after the accident, regained consciousness on Thursday. He is currently under observation in the orthopaedic ward of the hospital.
 
 According to railway police, Chandhu was hit by the rake while standing on the platform, however confusion still prevails over how the accident happened.
 
 Usually, when a train arrives at the station, the rake is sent for cleaning and maintenance. Then it is moved from the yard to platform half an hour before the journey or when the platform gets vacant. Prior to that an announcement is made in the public address system to inform the passengers and staff working near the tracks that the rakes are being moved to platform. 
 
 Also, the mechanical staff use whistles to warn passengers or staff who move near to the tracks.
 
 
