NEW DELHI: After Friday's tumultuous press conference by the four most senior judges of the   where they alleged that sensitive cases were being assigned to 'select benches', all the judges gathered for the first time on Monday morning for the customary tea before the day's work.

 
 
 Even as attorney general   and   chairman Manan Mishra claimed that the crisis, arguably the most serious one to have faced the top judiciary, had blown over, tension hung heavy as the judges sat together for the first time since the insurrection on Friday.
 
 The strain was obvious when the uneasy calm was broken by a barrage of angry words from a 'junior judge' who took on the 'famous four' for "bringing disrepute" to the institution and providing "hawkish politicians" a handle to scheme and plot in the judiciary's affairs.
 
 Sources quoted the 'junior judge' as saying the least the four could have done was to call for a full-court meeting, where the judges could have discussed the issue and found a solution. "Why did you go to the press without even informing other judges about the grievance of assigning of cases by the CJI to select benches?" he asked.
 
  
  
 
 "By going to the press, you wanted to tell the world that only senior judges are competent to handle cases and junior judges are not. You have killed the institution, its reputation and maligned every single judge," the junior judge said.
 
 The trigger for the press conference by the 'senior four' — assigning the PIL seeking investigation into CBI judge  's death in December 2014 under allegedly suspicious circumstances — too was raised by the 'junior judge'. He told the four that if they had talked to all judges about this alleged 'irregular assignment', the judges would have persuaded the presiding judge of that bench to recuse from the hearing.
 
 Faced with protest, one of of the four protagonists of the mutiny took pains to explain that the press conference was not meant to protest the assignment of 'Loya death case petition' to a particular judge but to articulate the general grievance about selective assigning of cases. The junior judge asked the senior if he had ever tried to raise this issue with the other judges, even if he did not want to intimate this to CJI Dipak Misra.
 
 The morning meetings generally last for 10 minutes. On Monday, lawyers, litigants and journalists waited anxiously for answers to the 'what happens now' question. Suspense heightened as the meeting appeared to last longer than usual. Finally, all the benches started functioning 10 minutes after the scheduled time of 10.30 am.
 
 After the benches assembled, the attorney general made a statement that an informal meeting of the judges had settled the differences. The BCI chairman followed suit with a similar "all is well" comment. But what happened inside the meeting indicated that scars left by the events on Friday afternoon have not been healed. There may not be another flare up but the simmering bitterness has clearly not been defused.
 
 
