LUCKNOW: BSP chief   on Thursday claimed that the BJP government was trying to malign her party by accusing her of having weakened the SC/SC Act through two orders issued by her government in 2007. She said it would be completely "false and misleading" to compare those orders with that issued by the   last month. 

 Explaining that the first order, issued on May 20, 2007, was a result of "false accusations" against her government by opposition parties who said that non-Dalits, especially upper castes, had been harassed under the garb of the SC/ST Act, Mayawati said: "Various directions were issued to the police on May 20, 2007, on maintaining law and order...it was said that to settle personal scores, people at times use an SC/ST person as a pawn to get fake cases registered against their opponent. Therefore, the police should verify the truth behind the complaint before registering the case. In the same order it was stated that all serious cases should be registered under the SC/ST Act while in cases of rape, a medical examination should be carried out before registration of FIR."
 
 However, she added, within months of issuing this order, it was found that it was being misused and it had become difficult to register cases under the SC/ST Act. "Fresh directions were issued on October 29, 2007 under which strict instructions were given to the police to implement the Act in its true spirit, to register cases immediately and to ensure speedy justice to SC/ST persons. It was also said that serious cases like those of rape and murder should be supervised by SP and SSP rank police officials. The order also said that if, during investigations, it was found that the case was false, action should be taken under section 182 of the IPC," Mayawati said.
 
 She claimed that it was because of the second order, which BJP had suppressed, that during the five years of BSP rule cases of harassment against Dalits and tribals had come down.
 
 The October 2007 order, however, carried a provision for filing an FIR against someone found to have registered a false case under the SC/ST Act. "It is totally false and misleading to compare the SC order with these orders as the directions given by the SC on anticipatory bail, or prior approval before arrests or initial investigation by a DSP level officer, are not there in the BSP orders," she said.
 
 Lashing out at PM  , who recently said that his government has respected BR Ambedkar the most, Mayawati said that along with respect for Babasaheb, his followers also need respect and security for their constitutional rights. 
 
 
