After rolling out 70 varieties of decorative paper, the  , started in 1940 with Mahatma Gandhi’s blessings, is turning to silk paper. It has developed 4,500 types, including drawing, watermarked, seed germination, and flower petal paper as also smooth sheets that are used for greeting cards, invitations and letterheads
 Avijit.Chatterjee @timesgroup.com
 
 In a cavernous hall, tucked away on   Road in Shivajinagar, two men are hunched over a mound of rags, sorting out buttons, elastic and metallic pieces and putting them into a rag chopper machine to be shredded.
  
  
 
 A few steps away, a machine is beating the bits of rags to pulp using water and chemicals--the first step in the long process to sort out the fibre.
 
 An expert karigar drains out the mushy pulp on to a metallic sheet, making sure it is ready to be pressed into handmade, chemical-free high-quality paper that can last up to a staggering 100 years, if not more.
 
 Unlike a papermaking machine that churns out hundreds of papers at one go, here, paper is made by hand, one sheet at a time, by specialized workers.
 
 After the pressed sheets have been made, a worker hangs them along a line to dry. The dried sheets are then cleaned and dipped in a glue solution to make them suitable for painting and drying.
 
 The sheets are then passed through heated rollers, a process known as calendaring, to give them a smooth and shiny finish. Once it is done, the calendared sheets are passed on to a group of women who sort the sheets as per weight, formation and finish. Then they are cut and packed, ready to be shipped. Patience is the key in this ancient papermaking process.
 
 The country’s primary handmade paper factory, located on the campus of Handmade Paper Institute (HPI) and run on a public-private partnership basis, churns out a few hundred sheets of paper every day.
 
 “Unlike a paper mill, we cannot produce thousands of sheets per day as the process is time consuming. The production is as per the order we receive. But the paper is manufactured in an eco-friendly manner using various types of paper scraps, rags procured from hosiery industries, jute, mill waste, among other things. We do not use wood at all,” says Sudhiirr Kenjale, deputy chief executive officer, Maharashtra State Khadi and Village Industries Board, which oversees the functioning of the institute.
 
 The institute was established in 1940 by city-based chemical scientist KB Joshi, on the advice of Mahatma Gandhi who was excited at the prospect of making ecofriendly paper during the Swadeshi Movement, the institute, inaugurated by  , has had an honoured past.
 
 The first draft of the Constitution was written by Babasaheb Ambedkar on papers manufactured here. Nehru printed his will and testament on papers produced here. The institution also made Nehru’s letterheads and printed the wedding cards of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi as well as her elder son Rajiv Gandhi.
 
 “We also produce a range of products, including paper bags, photo albums, pen stands, lamp shades, lanterns, notebooks and files, among other things. All the items are made from handmade paper,” says Kenjale. Needless to say, the institutes’ products have been lapped up by customers in Germany, Sweden, the US, the UK, Japan and Thailand.
 
 “Apart from manufacturing various types of products, our main focus is to provide training in skill development and carry out research in handmade paper technology. We provide a one-year managerial course in handmade paper industry as well as a few short-term courses in paper conversion. In the last 24 years, we have trained 1,858 entrepreneurs, most of whom have started their own units. Currently, there are around 80 manufacturing units and 70 conversion units in the state,” says Sanjeev B. Naik, junior lecturer, HPI.
 
 As part of its research work, the institution carries out trials to try and find a substitute for conventional raw materials. “We have started using banana fibre, bagasse, cotton stalk and jute. We have carried out trials using currency waste and found that good quality file covers or packing paper can be made out of it. We have also developed acid free drawing paper, insulating paper, leather board, germination paper and filter paper. We also carry out paper testing on a fee basis,” he adds.
 
 Actually, there is no end to what you can do with handmade paper provided you are creative, points out Naik. “You can use different types of raw materials to make handmade paper and put it to different use. Unlike a mill paper, handmade papers are very sturdy and can last a long time. For example, the files that we make using different types of fibres can help preserve documents for a longer time. Even the paper bags can easily carry load up to 5-7 kg. Moreover, they are biodegradable as compared to plastic bags,” he says.
 
 Regardless the enthusiasm, the road ahead is steep. “Very few people are aware of handmade paper. Funds from the government are lacking but we are soldering on,” says Naik. For the moment, the future of this ancient art forms rests in the hands of a few workers, at HPI and elsewhere across the country, who carry out their work in a unhurried manner.
 
 
 
 
 Before independence, only communities in Khultabad near Aurangabad, Kalpi in Uttar Pradesh, Sanganer in Rajasthan and Junnar in Maharashtra knew the art of creating paper from waste material.
 
 They supplied their handmade paper to the Mughals and the rulers. They used the paper to maintain records and traders used it to maintain accounts.
 
 The use of handmade paper was discouraged by the British. When it took on an aggressive turn, the industry choked and then went into a slump.
 
 K B Joshi was working at the Indian Oil Cotton Mill in Navsari in Gujarat around the 1930s. It was the peak of the Swadeshi Movement and he had developed a skill to make handmade paper.
 
 He wrote to Mahatma Gandhi asking that he be granted permission to use electricity for the process he had developed for manufacturing handmade paper.
 
 Gandhi was against the use of electricity as he was staunchly for village industries and handmade paper was one of them. When Joshi persevered, he won over the Mahatma and the institute came up. Since it gave a boost to the Swadeshi movement, it caught Gandhi’s attention.
 
