MANGALURU: Nine years after members of a   drinking in a pub, shaming the coastal city of Mangaluru, a court here acquitted 25 of the 30 accused in the case for want of evidence. Sri Ram Sene chief  , among those acquitted, called the judgment a “victory of truth”.

 The incident on January 24, 2009, at Amnesia — The Lounge on   catapulted the nondescript Sene into national limelight. Around 40 Sene activists had barged into the pub on a Saturday evening, dragged out men and women and thrashed them. Some of the women fell as the Sene men dragged them by the hair.
 
 Muthalik had justified the attack, saying it was unacceptable for women to go to pubs. Mangaluru made global headlines as a city dreaded for “moral policing” on the streets. The incident was caught on film, and it became one of the most watched videos on YouTube. However, nobody came forward to depose against the Sene cadres, police sources said.
 
 On Monday, Justice Manjunath of a JMFC court acquitted 25 of the 30 accused Sene activists for want of evidence. While two of the remaining five accused are dead, trial is pending against the other three who have left the country.
 
 
 
 The judgment is a victory of truth,” said Muthalik. In keeping with the line the Sene has taken since, Muthalik apologised on behalf of the men who carried out the attack but said their intention was justified. The Sene, he added, “shall not tolerate the youths of the country resorting to wine culture”.
 
 Muthalik was barred from the district for a year after the incident. Two years later, he called the attack a big mistake and a public relations disaster. In 2014, in the run-up to elections, he was recruited by BJP but disowned within hours.
 
 ‘Considering defamation’
 
 Muthalik said he was considering defamation cases against Congress, which was at the helm at the Centre, and BJP, which was holding office in the state, at the time of the attack, for maligning his image. He wondered how he could be booked when he was not even present at the venue of the attack. The Sene chief said he was at a convention from January 23-25 in Pune and the police arrested him at the airport in Belagavi on his return on January 26. He was lodged in jail for 16 days.
 
 Muthalik said 106 cases had been slapped against him and that he had been acquitted in all but 21 of them.
 
 
