MUMBAI: The   board on Wednesday took a slew of key decisions which included separating the posts of managing director (MD)/chief executive officer (CEO) and chairman, making it mandatory for listed companies to disclose reasons for the resignation of auditors and fees paid to them, and reducing the number of companies in which a person could be director to eight from 10.

 
 Accepting the Uday   panel recommendations on corporate governance, Sebi also directed the top 1,000 listed companies to have a minimum six directors. It asked the top 100 listed companies to webcast annual general meetings. The Sebi board cut costs for some mutual fund schemes. It has decided to strengthen rules that govern trading in the derivatives  , mainly by retail investors. 
 
 The Sebi’s decision to separate the posts of MD/CEO and that of the chairman of board of directors would lead to stricter scrutiny of the management by its board, industry professionals said. Currently, several companies have merged the two posts as chairman-cum-MD, leading to some overlapping of the board and the management, which could lead to conflict of interests. The Sebi recommendation will come into effect from April 1, 2020 for top 500 listed entities. 
  
  
 
 The Sebi board said that all listed companies will have to disclose the expertise of its directors and should have at least one independent woman director. All these were part of the series of recommendations given by the Sebi-appointed Kotak committee. Sebi chairman   said that while a large number of recommendations by the committee were accepted, some have been referred to government agencies and other regulators. 
 
 A release from the regulator said, “The board decided to refer certain recommendations to various agencies (government, other regulators, professional bodies, etc), considering that the matters involved relate to them. Such recommendations, inter alia, include strengthening the role of  , internal financial controls, adoption of Ind-AS, treasury  , governance aspects of   (public sector enterprises), etc.”
 
 The Sebi approved expanding the eligibility criteria for independent directors, enhanced the role of audit, nomination and remuneration, and risk management committees of the board of a listed company. It also said that companies will now have to disclose details about utilisation of funds raised through qualified institutional placement ( ) and preferential issues.
 
 The Sebi chief said out of 80 recommendations, the board accepted 40 without modification, 15 with some modifications, while eight have been referred to government agencies and other departments.
 
 Tyagi also said that in the derivatives market, a framework has been approved that will take care of product suitability for every retail investor who trades in the derivative market. “Individual investors may freely take exposure in the market (cash and derivatives) up to a computed limit based on their disclosed income under their Income Tax Return ( ) over a period of time. For exposure beyond the computed limit, the intermediary would be required to undertake rigorous due diligence and take appropriate documentation from the investor,” the release said.
 
 
