BENGALURU: Come September 1,  ,   and all forms of   in India will have to carry a   (quitline) number along with the 85%   on both sides.

 The Centre has for the first time introduced a Quit Today number — 1800-11-2356 — to be printed on all tobacco product packets. Counsellers at the helpline will advise callers how to get rid of the addiction. The packs will also have to carry the warning line: ‘tobacco causes cancer’ and ‘tobacco causes painful death’ in white font on a red background.
 
 A set of two new pictures has also been released for use from September 1. The pictures show a woman suffering from mouth cancer with her lip and jaw tumour protruding and a man with jaw and neck cancer coupled with an isolated jaw. The man is shown with a feeding tube. The pictures will be valid for use for 12 months.
 
 The gazette notification issued on April 3, 2018 says “these rules may be called the Cigarettes and other Tobacco Products (Packaging and Labelling) Second Amendment Rules, 2018”.
 
 Large pictorial health warnings occupying 85% of both sides of cigarette, beedi and chewing-tobacco product packets, have been in effect for almost two years now.
 
 “The Global Adult Tobacco Survey (GATS) 2016-17 had mentioned that 85% of cigarette buyers had thought about quitting the habit soon after they saw the 85% pictorial warning. This has made an impact. By publishing the  , we are taking one more step towards a tobacco-free India,” said U S Vishal Rao, member of high power committee, tobacco control, Government of Karnataka. In a multi-cultural country like India, the pictorial warnings transcend languages and also the illiteracy barrier, he added. 
 
 The GATS survey had also mentioned that the 85% pictorial warnings had resulted in 92% of adults believing that smoking caused serious illnesses. In the survey, 96% of the respondents said use of smokeless tobacco caused major illness. The findings also revealed that there has been a growing demand for cessation centres as 55% of smokers and 50% of smokeless-tobacco users were planning or thinking of quitting tobacco use.
 
 Experts said pictorial health warnings on tobacco products are the most cost-effective tool of educating people on the health risks of tobacco use.
 
 
