AURANGABAD: Shirish  , a practicing lawyer, is among scores of alumni of post-graduate law courses who are fuming at Dr   (BAMU) for valid reason. 

 Kamble has completed post-graduate courses in Business Law and Constitution Law, but was denied degree for specialisations. 
 
 “University authorities have been asking me to take degree bearing general nomenclature ‘Master of Law’, even if I have specialisation in two subjects. I strongly feel that it is unfair to hand over such degrees, which lowers the value of their education,” he said.
 
 Besides aforesaid specialisations, Bamu also offers postgraduate courses in Labour Law and Criminal Law and candidates successfully completing these courses are allegedly offered degree of Master in Law irrespective of their specialisation. 
 
 Kamble, who has taken up the nomenclature issue of postgraduate degrees with university authorities, claimed that the courses in question do not have approval form the office of Maharashtra Governor, who is ex-officio Chancellor of the state universities.
 
 “The sole reason for not conferring postgraduate degrees as per specialisation is that the university authorities have not taken necessary approval for those courses from the Chancellor. It is major lapse, which should have been rectified long ago as the courses are being offered for almost two decades. The shoddy functioning on the part of Bamu officials is taking toll on the academic interest of students,” Kamble said.
 
 As per the Maharashtra Universities Act 1994 that is now replaced with the  , any course offered by state universities needs approval from the chancellor. After necessary approval, the course finds place in the list of approved courses as per statute 133 and degrees are conferred with similar nomenclature thereafter as per statute 228(3) and statute 133 combined. 
 
 C M Rao, principal of M P Law College here, said the university authorities were giving deaf ear to the issue. 
 
 It is best known to the university why they cannot print the name of the specialisation on degrees. If there exist some technical issues, those need to be addressed, failing which the credibility of the courses in question would be in trouble, he said.
 
 When contacted, BAMU vice-chancellor B A Chopade said necessary corrective measures will be taken shortly. 
 
 I came to know about the issue just ahead of recently held convocation. I have asked the Controller of Examination to initiate necessary steps to offer relief to students, he said. 
 
 
