Madurai: With summer fast approaching, water is becoming scarce in many parts of the city. Although the civic body is keeping its fingers crossed on sailing through the summer, residents have already started feeling the pinch as the water level in the borewells has started going down.

 However, what raises their hackles is the sight of thousands of litres of water going waste due to the leak in the main water pipe in Kochadai. In fact, water flowing on the roadsides has become a common sight for the residents in the area. The leak is found alongside the main road between Mudakkusalai near Kochadai and Virattipathu. They say that the problem has been prevailing for months now.
 
 Besides going waste, the water flowing for over a kilometre on the roadside also creates trouble for two-wheeler riders who get splashed by muddy water when they go towards the edge to give way for heavy vehicles. N Balamurugan from Kochadai Natraj Nagar said the pipe leak often went unnoticed by the officials since water was supplied at night. Whenever, water is supplied to the residential areas there, the issue surfaces. “We have petitioned the officials many times, but nothing has changed. For some time in between it appeared as if the problem was over. But it was a temporary relief as the issue started surfacing again recently,” said Alaguraja, a resident of Virattipathu.
 
 The residents point out that due to the leak the water pressure was not sufficient in many tail-end areas as they had to use hand pumps to get the water. Even then, the required amount of water could not be collected within the given time due to less pressure. 
 
 However, an engineering official said that there was no pressure problem in the tail-end areas and they ensured good flow in all areas. When contacted, Madurai corporation commissioner Aneesh Sekhar said that earlier there was water leak in the main pipe, which they had set right. They would check if the problem surfaced again and take appropriate action.
 
 
