NEW DELHI: The Centre told the   on Friday that Rohingyas who migrated to India from   were not refused medical facilities and their children were not denied schooling, but said they could not be compared with Sri Lankan Tamil refugees and provided with identification cards for relief and rehabilitation rights.

 
 “Under the   bilateral agreements of 1964 and 1974, India had agreed to repatriate and grant Indian citizenship to six lakh persons of Indian origin together.
 
 Rehabilitation assistance was given to such persons of Indian origin as per bilateral agreement between the two nations. As per 1986 Indo-Sri Lankan Accord, Sri Lanka had agreed to grant citizenship to 94,000 persons,” the Centre said.
 
 A few   migrants had moved the SC through advocate  , who alleged Rohingya Muslims were being brutally pushed back to India’s border by   despite knowing these refugees faced threat to their lives from the Myanmar military.
 
 Bhushan had accused   of using chilli and stun grenades - a claim the home ministy denied as “false, incorrect and far from the truth”.
 
 He demanded they be allowed to stay in India on the same terms as Sri Lankan refugees with access to healthcare and education after being provided with refugee identification cards through the Foreigner Regional Registration Officer.
 
 The Centre cited the Indo-Sri Lankan bilateral treaty to reject demand for parity between Rohingyas and Lankan Tamil refugees and raised the issue of danger emanating from infiltration. “India is already facing serious problem of infiltration because of its porous border with other countries, which is the root cause of spread of terrorism,” it said.
 
 Terming the Rohingyas’ entry without internationally recognised travel documents as illegal, the ministry said border guarding forces were acting strictly in accordance with the law in larger public and national interest.
 
 “As far as Rohingyas who have already entered are concerned, there has been no reported case wherein either medical help or education is denied. Wherever medical facilities are available, the same are provided to anyone who visits,” the Centre said.
 
