AMRITSAR: Sikh radical groups hope to be able to meet Canadian Prime Minister Justin   during his India visit from February 17 to 23. This comes in the backdrop of Punjab chief minister Captain   expressing reservations in meeting some of Trudeau’s cabinet ministers for their alleged leaning towards Khalistan.

 While welcoming the visit of the Canadian PM, Jarnail Singh Sakhira, general secretary of Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar), a pro-Khalistan group, said they would give a memorandum to Trudeau reminding him of Sikhs’ genocide in India. While stating that Khalistan was very much on the party’s agenda, he said they had no plans to raise separatist slogans during Trudeau’s visit.
 
 On his state visit to India, Trudeau is scheduled to visit Amritsar, Agra, New Delhi, Ahmadabad, and Mumabi. SAD (Amritsar) leaders and workers had raised slogans in praise of Khalistan during Canadian defence minister Harjit Singh Sajjan’s Amritsar visit last year. However, even Sajjan had not met them.
 
 Party’s office secretary Harbir Singh Sandhu said, “We have a peaceful programme to welcome Trudeau and meet him but if we are stopped from meeting him then we will see.”
 
 Amarinder had refused to meet Sajjan during his visit in April 2017, accusing him of being a Khalistani sympathizer.
 
 Canada is among other countries including the UK and the US where radical Sikh groups are still pursuing the Khalistan agenda by not only trying to provoke the Sikh youths in India but also instigating the gangsters to fight for the “cause of Panth”.
 
 Gurpatwant Singh Pannu, legal adviser of Sikhs For Justice, in an e-mail message, said that they had written to Trudeau to defend Canadian Sikhs’ freedom of expression on Khalistan during his visit to India. “Mr Prime Minister, since you are about to visit India, we are writing to apprise you about the pressing concerns of the Canadian Sikhs with regard to India's policy of denying Sikhs’ rights to self-determination; labeling Sikh separatists as terrorists and policy of using torture as tool to suppress dissenting political opinion,” reads his letter.
 
 
