NEW DELHI: After Congress and JD(S) agreed with Karnataka CM B S Yeddyurappa's suggestion for a floor test, the SC was curious to know how BJP, with 104 MLAs, could garner a majority in a 222-member House. 

  "Where will you get the numbers from," a bench of Justices A K Sikri, S A Bobde and Ashok Bhushan asked. BSY's counsel and ex-attorney general Mukul Rohatgi replied with his characteristic nonchalance, "Support will come from other MLAs belonging to other parties (read Congress and JD(S)). I don't want to say anything more at this stage," he said. 
 
  This amounted to BJP and BSY openly declaring their intent to poach MLAs from Congress and JD(S), both of which have tried to keep their stables secure by lodging MLAs in resorts in neighbouring states. The mention of keeping their flocks safe left a jam-packed court chuckling. 
 
  The chortles turned into loud laughter as Justice Sikri shared two jokes being circulated on social media. "One said that resort owners could stake claim to form the government as they have majority of MLAs. The other said security is so tight that even resort owners are not allowed to enter their own premises," he said. 
 
  When the bench perused the two letters by BSY to the governor, which revealed nothing about the MLAs in support, Congress-JD(S) lawyer Abhishek Singhvi said, "The truth is BJP has only 104 MLAs and the majority is with Congress-JD(S). How on earth did the governor think BJP had majority?" 
 
  Rohatgi said there was no need for BSY to give names of all MLAs supporting him to the governor as he got invited as the leader of the single largest party. Appearing for the state government, additional solicitor general Tushar Mehta said Kumaraswamy's letter did not contain names of MLAs supporting him. 
 
  Dropping another bombshell, Rohatgi said, "I have instruction from several MLAs from the other side that they have not given written support to Congress-JD(S). However, the taste of the pudding's in the test on the floor of the House." The SC replied, "That is true but the main question is who should enter the arena first." 
 
  Singhvi said, "Polls are one thing but who gets invite first to form government is a completely different ball game. We all know what happens when a party with less than majority gets the invite to form government. It will kill democracy." Justice Bobde said, "Whosoever gets the chance, ultimately it is the floor where it will be decided who enjoys majority." 
 
 
