RAJKOT: Moving in and around the city could soon get a tad smoother.

 The 26km first phase of the second Ring Road surrounding the city has neared completion. Also, the Rajkot Urban Development Authority (Ruda) has got an in-principle approval from the state government to build the second phase of 21km that will cover the outer periphery of the entire city.
 
 
  
 The first phase of this Ring Road starts at Maliyasan (on Ahmedabad road) and ends at   via key junctions like Morbi Road, Madhapar crossroads and Ghanteshwar, which are the newly developing areas. Ruda has spent Rs 150 crore to build the first phase.
 
 The second ring road will ease traffic problem that is expected to only worsen in next five years. The biggest relief will be for commuters to and from Shapar-Veraval industrial area as most unit owners live on Kalavad Road. At present, they use the existing 150-feet Ring Road from Gondal crossroads to KKV. This traffic will now be diverted to the second Ring Road, making commuting up to Metoda GIDC faster. Moreover, vehicles coming from Bhavnagar Road and going to Gondal, Morbi or   won’t need to enter the city. These vehicles have been clogging the city roads for a long time now.
 
 Development work has also started in the areas parallel to the Ring Road. Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) has announced construction of a new recreational centre named Race Course-2 on this  . Builders too have lined up several residential and commercial schemes here.
 
 The work for demarcation and measurements for the second phase from Gondal Road to Maliyasan has also begun and Ruda has initiated the process to acquire land. 
 
 Phase two will start from Gondal road and pass through Pardi, Khokhardar, Papasari, Vadali and Kalipat before ending at Maliyasan. There will be five bridges in phase II — three bridges on the Aji, Nyari and Khokhardad rivers and two on water drainage.
 
 Ruda is also constructing an 80-feet two-lane road with the provision of expanding it into a four-lane road. 
 
 K B  , CEO of Ruda said, “We have received in-principle approval from the government and now we have to get just two sanctions. Initially, we acquired the land under the town-planning scheme and some farmers are ready to give their land voluntarily.”
 
 Paresh Gajera, president of the Rajkot Builders Association, said, “The new Ring Road will help the city expand. Development work has already started at Mavdi, Munjka, Mota Mauva and Ghanteshwar but we want Ruda to complete the road at one go by planning for the next 10-20 years like SP Ring road in Ahmedabad. Ruda should construct four-track road with bridges so that there will be no traffic problems in the future.”
 
 Hitesh Bagdai, a builder and former RBA president, said “Once people get road connectivity and infrastructure, the areas will develop fast and the real estate industry has good opportunity. Ruda needs to construct six-lane road considering a 20-year plan.” 
 
 
