KOTA: Bowing to the demand by the Hindu Mahasabha and pressure from the people, the   district administration on Thursday allowed lighting of lamps at   site on Tiger Hill. Following this, Hindu Mahasabha leader Baba Ramlakhan Das, Shrawan Das and  , who led the agitation, lit a diya at the site later in the evening.

 The administration, however, clarified that the daily ritual would be performed only by forest department officials (from Friday) and not by Hindu Mahasabha activists as Tiger Hill comes under the jurisdiction of the forest department.
 
 The deadlock between the administration and protesters was broken following the intervention of cabinet minister   after six days of tension, during which Bundi witnessed violence and authorities clamped prohibitory orders and blocked internet services.
 
 Later, minister for food and civil supplies Verma told reporters, “At the meeting held with representatives of all communities, including   and the district administration, it was agreed that forest department officials would light a ‘diya’ daily at the site. The decision has been taken respecting public sentiments.”
 
 The minister further said a report on the historical authenticity of the site would be sought from the Archeological Survey of India (ASI).
 
 
 
 He added that a highlevel committee would be formed to resolve the issue and based on the committee’s report, a formal ‘puja’ would subsequently be allowed.
 
 Till the government receives the reports from ASI and the committee and a cenotaph is built at the site, no one except forest officials will be allowed to light lamps at the site, the minister said.
 
 Bundi Shahar Quazi Abdul Shakur said, “To restore peace and harmony in the city, it has been decided to light ‘diya’ at the site. Since there is an idol at the site, ‘chirag’ should be lit.”
 
 “I have agreed to it, but my community may not agree. I shall try to convince my people,” Shakur said.
 
 Meanwhile, Hindu Mahasabha leader Sunil Hadouti said, “We are thankful to the administration and the Shahar Quazi for allowing forest officials to light the ‘diya’ at the site.”
 
 Shopkeepers and traders of Bundi markets, which had remained closed for the past three days in support of performing ‘puja’ at the site, agreed to open their establishments on Thursday evening following talks between both sides.
 
 Besides the Shahar Quazi and Hindu Mahasabha members, local MLA Ashok Dogra, BJP Bundi district president Mahipat Singh Hada and district officials were present at the meeting.
 
 Prohibitory orders under Section 144 and ban on internet services have been extended for 48 hours more, till 6am on January 7.
 
