KOCHI: Governor Justice P Sathasivam said that every university operates in a geographical context and society expects a university's intervention in times of crisis or need.

 “The recent cyclone Ockhi was a case in point, when people had questioned the efficiency of our facilities for weather prediction,” he said, speaking after handing over the third Chancellor’s award to the best university to Cusat at a function here.
 
 The best emerging young university award went to  .
 
 Governor said that   must help the fishermen community by identifying new methods on how to save our fishermen from natural disaster like ‘Ockhi’.
 
 Though he admitted that though Cusat has a powerful radar facility, it has little powers to intervene in the process of prediction, he put the onus on the institute to take up the issue with appropriate authority so as to enable them to carry our more meaningful extension activities that would connect them to people. “I am persuading our   and Veterinary University to help our farmers by informing and identifying good seeds, season for various crops, required fertilizers, organic farming, animal protection and weather report,” he said.
 
 Besides ensuring early declaration of results and improving research publications, universities should also focus on extra-curricular activities.
 
 “The universities should also implement focused action plans to improve their achievements in extra-curricular activities and should take more initiatives for adoption of green technology, waste management and utilization of solar energy,” he said.
 
 Governor noted that of late, there seems to be a pre-occupation with technological research and a neglect of research in pure and social sciences. “However, social inquiry is also of paramount importance, especially for societies like ours that are in a process of transition,” he said.
 
 Also just developing technologies is not enough and universities must ensure that information about such developments reach society in a credible manner so that people come forward to make use of the research output, Governor said.
 
 “Our academic activities should not be confined to the mere imparting of textual knowledge. University education must refine the character of students, thereby, raising the intellectual tone of the entire society and even purifying the national taste,” he said.
 
 Governor once again reiterated the need to reduce the days for declaration of examination results for both undergraduates and post-graduates.
 
 Later, chief minister   in his presidential address also said that there is an urgent need to ensure the timely delivery of exam results. “This may result in total quality improvement of the system,” he said.
 
