CHENNAI: After giving a miss to the scheduled event last year, the Tamil Nadu government on Monday announced that the second edition of the Global Investors' Meet (GIM) will be held in Chennai on January 23 and 24, 2019. The government, which has allocated 75 crore for the meet, has invited national & international firms, as well as industrial federations and embassies to extend full cooperation to make the event a grand success. 

 The first edition of the GIM was held here in September 2015 when   was the chief minister. It saw investment commitments to the tune of 2.42 lakh crore from 98 memoranda of understanding, said an official statement. An investment to the tune of 62,738 crore from at least 61 companies are at various stages of implementation -- from land acquisition to commercial production. This has created jobs for 96,341 people. 
 
 Additional chief secretary K Gnanadesikan, who helms the industries department, said the state would showcase the intrinsic advantages of doing business in Tamil Nadu at the event. "We will conduct national and international road shows from now on and delegations will visit the US and Europe as in the past. Teams will also visit various state capitals in the country to talk to investors, firm up investment plans and finalise MoUs throughout the year," the senior bureaucrat told TOI. The government will begin the process of identifying knowledge, media and event managers.   said the "peaceful law and order, uninterrupted power supply and skilled manpower are the advantages of doing business in the state."
 
 A coordination committee led by chief secretary   will help acquisition of lands, availability of uninterrupted power and concession of taxes. CII Tamil Nadu president P   said the organisation was keen on supporting the government akin to last event. "It is long overdue. The opportunity should be availed to attract more investments. The success stories of (recently-enacted) Business Facilitation Act should also be showcased in the roadshows," Ravichandran said. 
 
 Around 8,000 industrialists, chief executive officers and others took part in the first edition of the GIM held at   in Nandambakkam. Jayalalithaa took pride in announcing that the investment commitments were more than double the investment of 1 lakh crore targeted for the event. The commitment also exceeded the cumulative investment attracted through all MoUs signed by the state government over the 20-year period from 1991 to 2011. Manufacturing ( 1.04 lakh crore) and energy ( 1.07 lakh crore) sectors topped the list of investment commitments. 
 
 
