PUNE: The National Institutional Ranking Framework 2018 had, for the first time, included law, architecture and medical colleges as new categories. However, institutes from Pune underperformed both in terms of participation as well as ranking.

 Despite seven colleges from Pune participating in the medical category, which included the prestigious   (AFMC), only Dr DY Patil Vidyapeeth achieved a rank of 18 out of the 25 ranks declared.
 
 In the architecture category, one college participated. It could not manage a rank this year.
 
 Meanwhile, in the law category, four colleges participated. Only the Symbiosis Law College bagged a rank — the 9th position.
 
 The overall participation across India was also comparatively less in each of these categories. Only 101, 59 and 71 colleges participated from across the country in medical, architecture and law faculties respectively.
 
 Shashikala Gurpur, the director Symbiosis Law school said there is a need to change the parameters for faculties like law. Gurpur said most of the NIFR parameters are designed keeping in mind science and technology streams, which are fundamentally different from the way law education functions in a country like India.
 
 “Generally, the rigours of science and technology research are considered for assessment. However, law is a professional subject that also shares space with humanities subjects. Therefore, law needs a separate kind of assessment process for research. In the western countries, there is a research assessment exercise exclusively for the law schools. A different body of lawyers and experts are in charge of the exercise. Here in India, a transdisciplinary body of experts is assessing all the institutes. When they assess institutes across all boards and disciplines — without a specific assessment board of law being there — most law courses get comparatively lower scores,” said Gurpur.
 
 Adinath Suryankar, the registrar of Dr DY Patil Vidyapeeth, meanwhile talked about people’s perception and the workload of the doctors at various   in the country.
 
 “The problem with perception is that there is no way of forcing people to give ratings. Sometimes, people whom the NIRF teams approach forget to reply to their mail and that is taken as a 0 marking. Hence our points are less. Second, medicine itself is a very challenging stream. Both medical teachers and students usually have a very busy schedule. Specifically, in our medical college, the number of patients is very large and, therefore, there is hardly any time left for our medical teachers and students to undertake research work, innovate and file for patents. This is the reason why most medical colleges have scored low in the research parameter.”
 
 
