CHENNAI: The Madras   on Monday dismissed a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking to declare that the death of former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa was of suspicious nature.

 “When the state government has already appointed a one man commission to find out the causes of the death, this court cannot entertain such pleas,” a Justice M V   said while dismissing the plea moved by advocate A K Velan. Pointing out that when none of the relatives of the former chief minister had approached the court seeking such relief, the judge said many public interest litigations had been filed in the issue, which the court had refused to entertain. The court asked the petitioner to approach the one man commission for any relief within two weeks.
 
 
 According to the petitioner, Jayalalithaa had been hospitalised for 74 days till she was declared dead on December 5, 2016. Claiming that not a single information about her health and treatment provided had been made public, he alleged that even the then governor of Tamil Nadu was not allowed to meet her in the hospital.
 
 Claiming that such circumstances had raised suspicion over the causes of her death, the petitioner wanted the court to direct police to register it as suspicious death and conduct a   into its causes.
 
 An application filed seeking similar relief by the petitioner before a metropolitan magistrate was dismissed, prompting him to approach the high court.
 
 Since the death of the former chief minister, the high court witnessed a series of public interest litigations moved by persons from various quarters of life, including cadres of AIADMK seeking probe into the causes of her death. In September 2017, the Tamil Nadu government appointed former judge of Madras high court Justice   as the one man commission to probe the causes of death of Jayalalithaa.
 
 
 
 
 Puducherry: Hardcore supporter of R K Nagar MLA and sacked AIADMK leader T T V Dhinakaran, Nanjil Sampathon Monday questioned why the one-man commission constituted to probe into the death of former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa, has not summoned the chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam, for inquiries so far. Speaking to reporters on Monday in Puducherry he said Palaniswami and Panneerselvam will soon attack each other and will sink into oblivion in no time. “The EPS-OPS combination is a sinking ship,” Sampath declared.
 
 He also came down heavily on the Tamil Nadu government for hiking the bus fare by 60% and announced that the TTV camp will hold a state-wide protest on January 31against this.
 
