PUNE: Bosses of different departments of the civic body will face the music if their subordinates litter the corporation building.

 The department heads will be held responsible for the filth on premises under their jurisdiction. If an employee of a department is caught dumping   on the campus, the department head will be held accountable. S/he will have to pay the fine for the wrongdoing of the subordinate. The solid waste management department issued an order in this regard.
 
 A source said, "The civic office is getting littered for more than one reason. Complaints have been made in this regard, especially about leftover food. It is thrown at different corners of the building and on window sheets, causing stink after the lunch hours. This behaviour of employees prompted the move."
 
 
  
 
 Suresh Jagtap, the head of the solid waste management department of the   ( ), confirmed the development. "If any civic staff member is found violating the norm, he or she will be punished. We will also write to the department head concerned and fix the responsibility on them," he said.
 
 He said the punishments include fine. It will be charged according to the guidelines issued under the solid waste management policy.
 
 The source said many people, including visitors and employees, spit on the corporation building premises. It was sending a wrong message because PMC had introduced new guidelines to prevent littering in the city.
 
 The solid waste management department in 2017 had finalized the new sanitation policy for improving the cleanliness and hygiene in the city. Heavy fines have been imposed for dirtying the city. PMC has decided to affect a steep rise in penalties for littering public places.
 
 According to the new proposal, the fine for spitting and littering will go up from Rs50 to Rs200. Those taking bath in the open will now be fined Rs100, while those held for open defecation would be fined Rs200 as against the old rate of Rs50.
 
 According to PMC's claims, steps have been taken for effective implementation of the cleanliness drive in the city. If such actions are fined heavily, it will prove a deterrent. Many people spit or defecate on the roads and take it very casually.
 
 The civic body has also been introducing measures to implement the Section 116 of the Bombay Police Act, 1951, which strictly prohibits spitting in public places.
 
 
