Madurai: As general budget round the corner, rail users in the region expressed their expectations on railway amenities, after the railway budget has been clubbed with general budget. The expectations included new railway lines, train services and extension of trains in addition to upgrading passenger amenities.

 In the month of December, a delegation of Tamil Nadu Foodgrains Merchants Association Limited from Madurai met union railway minister, Piyush Goyal at Delhi with a petition in this regard. According to the forum, the region requires some new railway lines such as Madurai – Karaikudi, Bodi – Ernakulam, and Dindigul – Sabarimala. President of the forum, S P Jeyapragasam stated that an approval to take out a survey of Madurai – Karaikudi via Melur has been given earlier and if this new line comes up, it will be an alternate route to reach Trichy and Melur region will get a train connectivity. Similarly the 117 km Bodi – Ernakulam line may connect Mangalore and Tuticorin seaports enabling industrial growth, he said.
 
 Rail users also point out lack of Konkan connectivity to Madurai region except for Tirunelveli – Dadar Express operated once in a week. K Padmanathan, general secretary of Railway Passengers Welfare Organisation in Madurai has placed the demand of increasing the frequency of this express train. Ideally, a new train from Rameswaram towards Konkan region will greatly benefit the rail users in the region, he stated.
 
 Rail users also pointed out the importance of developing new terminals for the city like turning Kudal Nagar and Tiruparankundram stations. Other demands for Madurai railway junction in particular were, providing toilet facilities and escalators in all platforms of the junction. Adequate battery cars and trolleys in railway junction like airport.
 
 It was also popular demand among rail users to speed up the doubling works between Madurai and Kanyakumari for which union minister of state for railways, Rajen Gohain laid the foundation stone on January 23 at Kanyakumari. The minister has speculated the doubling project along with electrification will be completed in a span of four years.
 
 Considering the fact that Madurai – Virudhunagar section in this doubling project is more crucial to ease train traffic towards South, rail users here urged Indian Railways to start doubling works from Madurai towards Virudhunagar. Three sections namely from Tirunelveli, Aruppukottai and Sengottai converge at Virudhunagar making the section between Madurai and Virudhunagar most congested during peak hours of train traffic. “Our demand for years have become reality with commencing of doubling works. It will help railways to operate more trains towards Southern Tamil Nadu. But it will be greatly helpful if Madurai – Virudhunagar section is doubled first”, opined K Suresh Napoleon, a Virudhunagar based advocate.
 
 
