ZIRAKPUR: Nullahs have turned into dumping grounds, garbage collection is irregular, and roads have been dug up without permission. Are the civic authorities waiting for an epidemic to break out in Dhakoli?

 During a roundtable meeting on Saturday as part of the TOI in Conversation series, members of the   (URWA) that represents eight housing societies of   talked about health hazards and other civic issues they have been trying to raise for six months. Even posting pictures and reports on the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan app have failed to jolt the municipal authorities into action.
 
 Their demands include regular garbage collection, cleaning of the nullah, shifting of two illegal cremation grounds, end of indiscriminate digging up of roads, functional streetlights, traffic management, an underpass near the railway crossing, and ridding commercial and residential areas of encroachment. The representatives of the participating housing societies said they had logged on to the Swachh Bharat app in the hope of getting a system to collect garbage and clean up the nullahs into which the sweepers were pushing all waste.
 
 The complaints posted on the app go to the central government. The only response from that quarter, so far, has been that it has forwarded the complaint to the department concerned. The promised prompt action hasn’t happened, so far. The complainants get nothing but another assurance of action. The ground reality is that none of the municipal council officials has visited Dhakoli, so far, to find out its problems or contact the residents.
 
 The residents are disturbed by the fact that the local portal of the Punjab government has similar response to the complaints lodged though it. During a visit to the nullahs of Dhakoli, TOI found that the nearby farmers had installed tubewells over it to draw irrigation water for their fields. Another issue that the residents raised was about two illegal cremation grounds where no worker had been deployed to record the funerals.
 
 The residents claimed to have asked the authorities concerned many times to shift the cremation grounds but nothing was ever done in this direction. URWA president   said the civic authorities had claimed to be working on shifting the cremation grounds not shared the details. The URWA is worried also because the slums coming up on vacant pockets due have shot up the crime rate In Zirakpur.
 
 Even the dirty surroundings of the residential societies have been the subject of many complaints. Former URWA member Surinder Sondhi said the civic authorities had failed to remove a lot of encroachment in time, to the effect that it had emboldened the slum dwellers to grab some more land. These slums draw illegal electricity from nearby poles but they authorities concerned let it ignore. Traffic chaos is another headache that the residents of Dhakoli have to face daily. The reason is that there’s no underpass near the railway crossing of Dhakoli, despite several reminders to the authorities.
 
