MUMBAI/INDORE: Within 24 hours of their   triumph, three Vidarbha players - medium-pacers   and Aditya Thakare, and left-arm spinner Aditya Sarvate - had appeared for trials for   team   in Mumbai.

 TOI learns that MI had summoned these players for trials, which have been going on for the last 10 days at their RCP ground at Ghansoli (within Reliance corporate office premises), before the final itself. Tuesday was the fourth trial that the Mumbai-based franchise conducted for domestic players. Watching them in action was MI coach Mahela Jayawardene along with support staff.
 
 With the IPL auction scheduled to take place on January 27 and 28 in Bangalore, there is a possibility that the three Vidarbha players could be hot picks.
 
 Meanwhile, the Vidarbha Cricket Association (VCA) has planned a grand felicitation programme for the victorious players on January 5 at its Civil Lines stadium. “Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis is likely to attend the function. ICC chairman Shashank Manohar will also be present,” sources told TOI.
 
 Former Vidarbha captains, cricketers, the executive committee, members and their family, players and their families will attend the function, which will be followed by a grand dinner in honour of the winning team.
 
 “It’s a huge moment in Vidarbha’s cricketing history. We want to make it memorable for the players. Players will also be handed over the prize money (Rs3 crore) announced by VCA,” said the sources.
 
 The team will also get Rs 2 crore from the BCCI for becoming the Ranji champions.
 
 Along with Gurbani, Sarvate and Thakare, coach Chandrakant Pandit and veteran opener Wasim Jaffer, who scored the winning runs against Delhi on Monday, also left for Mumbai. They will be joining the team during the felicitation function.
 
 After the final ended on the fourth day, the other Vidarbha players stayed put in Indore. All of them will be arriving in Nagpur at 4.50pm on Wednesday on a Jet Air flight via Mumbai. The team is expected to be greeted by several VCA members and, families and friends. The VCA is yet to decide if the team will be taken around in the city in an open carriage.
 
 On Monday night, the team had a quiet celebratory dinner even though Pandit had given them full freedom. The dinner was hosted by Vidarbha Cricket Association president Anand Jaiswal.
 
 After the victory, the players spent a lot of time together in the dressing room. They cut the cake at the team hotel before coming together for dinner. Families of captain Faiz Fazal, Ganesh Satish, Karn Sharma, Shalabh Shrivastava, Pandit, VCA vice-president Prashant Vaidya and bowling coach Subroto Bannerjee and Akshay Wadkar were also present.
 
 Sources said Vaidya had also invited former India opener WV Raman, former India leg-spinner Narendra Hirwani and Mumbai stalwart Amol Majumdar for the dinner. “They told the boys to enjoy the moment. There was no dance, just some light music and Subroto (Bannerjee) singing. The players were drained out after a demanding season. They discussed about some memorable moments during the tournament, especially their semi-final victory over Karnataka in Kolkata,” sources said.
 
 On Tuesday, the players were largely confined to their rooms. They lunched together and had some fun moments. All seemed in a joyous mood.
 
 Faiz was busy giving interviews to various publications and channels. In between, some youngsters, after learning about Vidarbha’s Ranji Trophy triumph, came to click selfies. Vidarbha players obliged them with a smile on their faces.
 
 Some players visited their friends and relatives place during the evening. Most of the Vidarbha players have played a lot of cricket in Indore and have friends here.
 
 After the felicitation programme, another challenge awaits Vidarbha — the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy which will be played in Raipur with all the Central Zone teams from January 8
 
