MOHALI: Thieves fled with jewellery worth Rs 25 lakh from a flat on the fourth floor in a housing society in Kharar on Saturday, prompting the 200-odd families to stage a protest against the developer for poor security arrangements.

 
 Narpinder Singh, a resident of Ruby Towers, alleged the theft occurred at his house at 1.10 pm. The two thieves entered the society in a Maruti Alto car, went to the fourth floor, broke the house door and took away jewellery and Rs 23,000, he said.
 
 
 “When we returned, we saw the main door ajar. We found almirahs had been ransacked and jewellery around 62 tolas amounting to Rs 25 lakh stolen. We have lodged a complaint with the police,” Narpinder alleged.
 
 
 CCTV footage showed the two thieves entering the society main gate in the car bearing   and going up in a lift and then entering the flat.
 
 
 Later, outside the housing society, residents raised slogans against the developer and alleged the society has very poor security arrangements. Residents alleged this is the third such theft in the society in the past one year.
 
 
 Society president   said, “The entire society is spread in 7 acres and is being managed by just two security guards. We have requested general manager   to arrange for at least five   many times but he has failed. The CCTV cameras at the main gate are also not working properly and no one is questioned while entering the society. The society is yet to be registered and despite our repeated requests, the developer has failed to hand over the possession to us.”
 
 
 Zora Singh said, “They never came to us with the demand to increase security guards. Now, they have approached me and we will hire more guards. We have been maintaining the records of the entry/exit of every person.”
 
 
 The society has over 400 flats out of which 200 are occupied, said Zora Singh.
 
 
 A police team led by   officer Bhagwant Singh inspected the crime scene. He said, “We have registered a theft case. Further investigations are on.”
 
 
