Jaipur: Rajasthan youth in the age group of 14-18 years have performed poorly in making simple calculations. 

 The Annual Status of Education   (ASER) survey says that only 65% youths in the age group from the state could count currency compared to the national average of 75.7%.
 
 The youths were shown currency notes of denominations Rs 2,000, Rs 500, Rs 50 and Rs 20 and asked to add, and only 65% managed to do so. 
 
 “Only 49% youths in the same age group could tell time in hours and minutes against 59% nationally,” the survey revealed.
 
 For the survey, ASER had chosen one district from each state. Udaipur was chosen for the purpose as the learning outcomes of the district have always been closest to the average learning outcomes of Rajasthan.
 
 The state youth fared badly even in answering a simple question like figuring out how many hours a girl had slept if she went to bed at 9.30pm and woke up at 6.30am. 
 
 Only about 32.6% youths from Udaipur district calculated the time correctly compared to 39% nationally. 
 
 When you apply the unitary method (combining various categories), 43% youths in Rajasthan in general and Udaipur in specific gave the correct answer compared to 50% nationally.
 
 The state youths were also found wanting in digital, financial and media awareness. 
 
 Barely 19% of them had used the internet in a week before the survey, while the national average for the same stood at 28% for the 14-18 years age-group. 
 
 Even mobile phone penetration was among the lowest in the country for state’s youths. 
 
 “Some 66% confessed to having used the internet a week prior to the survey, while only 73% have used mobile phones,” said the survey. 
 
 All these reflect how an ambitious projects such as Digital India and the cashless initiative of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, are facing serious setbacks.
 
 “The rural youth between 14 to 18 years of age face two major challenges—how to pursue good education and acquire required skills for job readiness and employment. This rural youth survey is a first attempt to highlight the ability of youth to apply basic reading and arithmetic abilities in everyday situations, along with current status of quality of vocational training and potential for employability. We have a long way to go forward,” said K B Kothari, managing trustee, Pratham, Rajasthan.
 
 
