AURANGABAD: The state criminal investigation department (CID), probing the   ( ) dummy candidate scam, on Tuesday arrested two more government employees taking the total number of accused arrested in the past 48 hours to 10.

 Superintendent of police (CID) Shankar Kengar said the accused have been arrested after gathering sufficient evidence that they took help of these racketeers to crack the MPSC exam to bag the jobs.
 
 “With each passing day new names are cropping up and with this we are trying to discreetly collect all the evidences before proceeding ahead with the action,” said Kengar.
 
 The officer was candid enough to confess that collecting of evidences in this case is turning out to be a daunting task. The accused duo arrested on Tuesday have been identified as Vishal Pawar currently serving as assistant engineer with Nanded zilla parishad and senior clerk Balasaheb Bhatlondhe at the directorate of food and civil supplies, state secretariat, Mumbai.
 
 The officers with the state CID have expressed their surprise over the fact that with the help of these racketeers, candidates have managed to make it to different departments across the state.
 
 The eight accused, including seven serving government employees, arrested on Sunday have been remanded in police custody till May 11. Prior to this, the CID arrested 25 beneficiaries of this racket, all of the government employees.
 
 Kengar said that based on revelations made by the key racketeers, the special squads of the CID are collecting evidences and the accused are being arrested only after that.
 
 An officer privy to the investigation said the probe has found that the suspects took assignments of cracking the exams from only those who approached them through their reliable channel. Others reaching out to them directly were shooed away.
 
 Apart from zeroing down on the suspect government employees, who made it to the government jobs by cracking MPSC exams with the help of these racketeers, the CID is also probing if any of the government officials turned a blind eye to the complaints they received about the racket at an early stage.
 
 “Had this scam been nipped in the bud, it would not have spread to this extent and denied jobs to the deserving candidates,” an officer said. 
 
 
