NEW DELHI: When IPL's January auctions came to a close, the pundits analysing the team squads believed that   might have been starting off with a disadvantage, with too many cricketers on the wrong side of 30 in their squad. Come May 27, it’s MS Dhoni’s CSK who are one of the last two teams standing on the likes of Shane Watson, Dwayne Bravo and the skipper himself carrying the two-time champions into their 7th IPL final.

 
 
 
 Sri Lanka captain   believes CSK had very ‘specific’ ideas heading into the auction and so far implemented the ideas well on their road to the final. “CSK picked the side with a very specific purpose. They had a clear idea who they wanted to get. They settled on the players who had the ability but also experience on their side and it has worked for them so far,” Sangakkara told TOI on the sidelines of ‘The Dugout Debate’ ahead of Sunday’s final.
 
 
 
 Sangakkara, who played for Deccan Chargers, Kings XI Punjab and  , believes Chennai will be heading into the final full of confidence. “We don’t know how much this extended break between matches will help Chennai. We’ll have to see if it works out in their favour. But CSK will be heading into the final full of confidence, having already beaten the Sunrisers three times this season and they’ll be hoping if they can make it a fourth on Sunday,” he said.
 
 Sangakkara’s colleague in the ‘debate’ and former Australian batsman   felt that teams that make the least mistakes on the day generally comes out on top. “Key is to get some of the bangers (big hitters) out before the 16th over. There is the additional pressure of a final. We have usually seen that finals are won by the team that makes the least mistakes,” Jones said.
 
 Asked about Dhoni’s captaincy, Jones said, “MS (Dhoni) has his own style of captaincy, he waits for the opposition to make mistakes by squeezing the life out of opposing teams. Kane (Williamson) is different because we saw bat-pads, slips and that was what got (Andre) Russell out on Friday.”
 
 Sangakkara, meanwhile, felt that one of the critical factors in the match will be how the Super Kings handle SRH match-winner Rashid Khan. “For me, it will be Rashid Khan vs the Chennai batsmen. That is one of the reason (Ambati) Rayudu has dropped down to No. 4 to handle the threat of Rashid with Suresh Raina. How Chennai handle SRH pacers on the Wankhede track in the early over and how they deal with Rashid in the middle will dictate the course of the final,” the Lankan said.
 
 Meanwhile, asked to pick his best foreign and uncapped player of  , Jones said, “The best foreign player has to be (Sunil) Narine of KKR with Williamson coming close. The best uncapped players for me will be Rishabh Pant of the Daredevils. Rashid has been up and down but if you want someone to change momentum of the game, it’s Rashid who has been up there.”
 
