NEW DELHI: Just five days left to the final   date for   seats in   and but schools have been turning away parents asking them to come “after the exams are over”. Class XII exams get over by April 12, and Class X has its last major exam on March 23. Meanwhile, some other schools are asking parents to pay for uniform, books and additional fees despite clear warning from the   against such practices. 

 A vendor from south Delhi said he was delighted when his child’s name had figured in Amity International School, Saket. “But the school administration then asked me to fill a booklet for them, in English, pay Rs 1,685 for it, the ID card, some activity fees, and Rs 3,500 for books and uniform. I earn Rs 8,000 per month; how does an illiterate and poor man like me get my child admitted,” he said. Divya Bhatia, the principal, said she was out of the city and did not comment on the matter. 
 
 Another parent, a resident of Seelampur, complained that the assigned school sent him away after taking his mobile number and name, and told him that they will call him later. “They asked me to go to them between April 10 and 12, but we have been told that the last date is March 31. When I went back to principal, she asked me to return with an income certificate,” said the parent, who comes under the OBC category.
 
 As per DoE rules, no school can ask a parent under the Disadvantaged Group category for an income certificate. “But when I told the principal, she said I will not admit your child,” the parent alleged, adding that he was also being asked to pay for uniform and books if the child was to be admitted.
 
 The tales of parents having trouble in getting their kids admitted to schools, after their names figured in the draw list, have been pouring in from across the capital, with several schools in Rohini area also asking parents to pay under the free-ship quota.
 
 According to a report released in February this year by NCPCR, private school principals are hesitant to take in EWS students, while the officials of the commission believe that the government must devise a way to monitor admissions after the draw of lots is being done, because several children are turned away at that point.
 
 While DoE has created a complaint portal, few parents get redress or any solution to the non-admission. 
 
 
