HASSAN: Slamming the Centre’s move to outsource the maintenance of the iconic   to private entities,   energy minister   on Sunday said, “The Karnataka government is ready to adopt the Red Fort. Privatisation of the iconic building is an insult to the glorious history, and traditions of our country.”

 Demanding that the Centre apologise to the country for making such a proposal, he added, “We are ready to provide Rs 25 crore. The fort was built by Muslim leaders, and it has a great history. The central government has no respect for the country’s history, heritage and culture.”
 
 Shivakumar charged the Centre with not supplying sufficient amount of coal to Karnataka, which could lead to a possible power crisis in the state. “Through solar power, we have ensured that the state will face no crisis,” the senior Congress leader added.
 
 ‘BJP, JD(S) join hands whenever they grow thirsty for power’
 
 Criticising former PM HD Devegowda, who claimed that Congress was referring to JD(S) as BJP’s ‘B’ team since it was sensing defeat, Shivakumat said, “I urge Deve Gowda to work towards protecting his party’s secular credentials before making comments about Congress leaders.”
 
 The minister said that there was no ‘mutual trust’ between BJP and JD(S). “BJP and JD(S) join hands whenever they are hungry for power, and depart when they dislike each other.”
 
 Pointing to the confusion within the JD(S), Shivakumar said, “While Gowda is saying that his party will form the government with the support of like-minded parties, his son Kumaraswamy is stating the party will get a majority by itself.”
 
 Shivakumar averred that the JD(S) would neither become the ‘King’ nor the ‘Kingmaker’ this time round. “Kumaraswamy is a daydreamer. He was waiting for leaders to resign from the Congress and BJP to ensure his party could field candidates in all 224 seats,” he added.
 
 The energy minister said that the Congress had ensured that there had not been a single communal clash in the state during its five-year-tenure in the state.
 
 Earlier on Sunday, Shivakumar was in attendance at several rallies and party events in Chikkamagaluru district. One of the highlights of his rally at Mudigere was when he rode a Bullet bike. When questioned about Deve Gowda’s remarks on   president Rahul Gandhi, wherein the former said that the Congress would not win in those states where Rahul campaigned, Shivakumar said, “Deve Gowda is a senior-most leader. Rahul is like a son to Gowda. Let him say whatever he wants.”
 
 
