JALPAIGURI: The managements of two tea gardens in   district - Sylee and Hila - have put up a 'suspension of work' notice leaving over 2,000 workers jobless for now. At Sylee, the suspension notice was served on Sunday evening, while the notice at Hila was given on Monday morning. In both the cases, the top management officials left the gardens after issuing the notices. 

 Spread over an area of 1,020 hectares, the Sylee tea garden of the Malbazar block employs 1,524 workers, including labourers and office clerks. But the management of the 'sick' estate cited 'deterioration of work culture' as the reason for abandoning the garden on Sunday evening. 
 
 The tea garden owners could not be contacted for comments. However, CITU leader Zia-ul-Alam said the state government and the Centre should take the initiative to protect the interest of workers during the pruning season. "A meeting should have been organised between the management and the workers to fix the matter," he said.
 
 On the other hand, around 750 labourers of Hila tea estate in Nagrakata block woke up to find a notice pinned on the factory gate on Monday morning. It read that the management was unable to run the garden amid labour problems. "Hence the suspension of work notice is being put up," it said. The top management officials left the estate. However, emergency services like drinking water supply and medical services were available as usual. 
 
 Unlike other gardens, Hila tea estate does not have any casual staff. The garden is spread over an area of 350 acres and has a population of over 5,000 people. 
 
 The Trinamool Congress MLA of Mal (ST), Bulu Chik Baraik, who visited the Sylee garden on Monday, said it was a temporary setback and the tea estate would open soon.
 
 "We don't know how to earn the daily bread now. Winter has set in and it has become a lean period. Leaf generation will also be very poor. We cannot even sell it for a living. We had a hope that things will make a 'U' turn. But for now, everything is finished," said Durga Mahali, a labourer. 
 
 The Hila tea estate used to be run by the   for a long period. It was sold to private hands only three years ago. 
 
 Owing to lean season in the winter, some gardens shut their operations every year. Tea production remains closed during the pruning season from December to February.
 
 
