NEW DELHI: The central government will soon set up a real-time online database of ration cards and the beneficiaries under the national food security scheme to end any possibility of anyone procuring a fake or more than one   from any part of the country. The system will also enable lakhs of migrant workers to get subsidised foodgrains irrespective of the place from where the cards are issued.

 A source in the food and public distribution ministry said an   (IMPDSN) will be set up on the lines of GSTIN and it will be rolled out phase-wise from next month. The government will assign a unique identity number to each ration card and the integrated online system will help the issuing authorities to detect whether any applicant has already got a ration card in any other part of the country.
 
 Though   seeding of ration cards has helped the government to weed out about 2.75 crore ghost ration cards in the past five years, sources said the chances of people having more than one ration cards from different states cannot be ruled out.
 
 “The IMPDSN mechanism will help one state to get access to the data of another state. We have linked more than 80% of ration cards to Aadhaar number and Aadhaar seeding has been done for 60% of all individual beneficiaries. Integration of Aadhaar and IMPDSN will put an end to any malpractice,” official said.
 
 Producing ration card is essential to get the highly subsidised rice, wheat and coarse grains under the National Food Security Act.
 
 Another official said any beneficiary taking the subsidised foodgrain from any FPS will get reflected in the central database and hence there will be no scope for manipulating or bypassing the system. This will help lakhs of migrant labourers who move to other states or cities for work.
 
 Currently, migrant labourers don't get subsidised foodgrains since their ration cards can only be used at the designated fair price shop in their village or locality. Only four states - Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Haryana and Rajasthan - have intra-state portability system in place, which allows the beneficiary to buy the grain from any fair price shop in the state.
 
 “We will start a pilot on portability among these four states and then it will be extended to all states,” the official said. Last year a government appointed “Working Group on Migration” had recommended that migrants should be enabled to avail benefits of PDS in the destination state by providing for inter-state operability of PDS.
 
