GURUGRAM: Aware of the investigative lapses made by it,   is bracing for CBI’s supplementary chargesheet in the school murder case of September 8 last year when a Class II student was murdered by a Class XI senior. 

 The CBI, according to sources, will file the supplementary chargesheet which is expected to elaborate on the alleged botched-up investigation of the Gurugram cops and expose the officers and reasons behind it. 
 
 The probe agency, sources said, would also name the cops as accused if their involvement was found in the alleged lapses. 
 
 Sources said that former SHO of Bhondsi police station inspector Narender Singh Khatana, sub inspector Shamsher Singh, constable Bheem Singh, ACP (Sohna) Barem Singh and a few officers of crime units are among those who have been under the CBI scanner.
 
 The first CBI chargesheet has already indicated that Gurugram cops are under the scanner. However, the CBI so far has not recommended any action against the cops who were part of the initial investigation. The central probe agency may also explain the alleged role of the school administration also in the alleged botch-up.
 
 According to the chargesheet, an FIR registered in the case was signed by inspector Khatana and the investigation was entrusted on sub inspector Shamsher. The confessional statement of conductor Ashok was recorded in presence of constable Bheem, said sources. 
 
 Sources in the CBI said the supplementary chargesheet would be filed in one or two months.
 
 The chargesheet in the school murder case, filed by the CBI on Monday, had made several claims that contradict the probe conducted by the police. Apart from exonerating school bus conductor Ashok Kumar, the prime accused according to police, the chargesheet also accused police of pressuring several witnesses to give statements that fit their theory, as well as of torture and harassment of Ashok and other witnesses in the case. 
 
 Also, despite questioning the Class XI student the CBI has apprehended for murder, they did not bother to make him a person of interest, raising serious doubts about the police probe. 
 
 In CBI custody, Ashok had told the investigators that he had confessed to murdering the Class II student under “coercion and threat” by the police. Sources said the police brass is awaiting the CBI recommendation to take action against cops if they had committed any lapses during the investigation.
 
 A day after police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar hinted that the investigation could have been flawed, DGP B S Sandhu on Wednesday said strict action would be taken against the erring cops after the state police received the CBI report. The CBI has made Ashok the prime witness ,though the police had made him the prime accused in the case.
 
 “There are some procedures to be followed when other investigation agency is involved in one case. Once the CBI gives us the investigative analysis on the lapses, reasons and the people involved, we will take a strict action. No matter how senior they are, erring officers will be punished,” said DGP Sandhu. 
 
 CBI spokesperson RK Gaur said further investigation was being carried out and the report would be submitted to the court in due course of time.
 
 
