NEW DELHI: In a setback to former promoters of Ranbaxy, Malvinder Singh and  , the Delhi high court on Wednesday upheld an international arbitral award of Rs 3,500 crore against them.

 In 2016, a Singapore tribunal had passed an award in favour of Japanese pharma major   on its allegation that the former promoters of   concealed information about proceedings against them by American Food and Drug Department (FDA) and its department of justice.
 
  
  
 Daiichi had entered into a settlement agreement with the US department of justice, agreeing to pay $500 million penalty to resolve potential, civil and criminal liability. The claims relate to the sale of Ranbaxy shares by the Singh brothers to Daiichi in 2008 for Rs 9,576 crore. Sun Pharmaceuticals later acquired the company from Daiichi.
 
 On Wednesday, Justice Jayant Nath held that the 2016 award can be enforced against the Singh brothers.
 
 
  
 “The Supreme Court has clearly held that enforcement of a foreign award would be refused only if such enforcement would be contrary to the fundamental policy of Indian Law. While considering enforceability of foreign awards, the court does not exercise appellate jurisdiction over the foreign award nor does it enquire as to whether while rendering the foreign award some errors have been committed,” HC noted in its verdict.
 
 Paving the way for enforcement of the arbitral award, HC noted it was “clearly within the domain of the Arbitral Tribunal to assess damages. The award has given various reasons for having rejected the suggested formula/computation by the respondent.”
 
 
  
 Justice Nath, however, set aside the liability pinned by the award against five minors, including Singh’s children on the ground that as per Indian law an award is not enforceable against minors. These children were also shareholders in Ranbaxy but HC said law is clear that they can’t be held liable of having perpetuated a fraud either themselves or through any agent.
 
 The court said the award against the minors was "shockingly disproportionate" as they were acting through their natural guardians, the Singh brothers, and had received a total sale consideration of only Rs 14 lakh.
 
 “Today’s judgment by the Hon’ble Delhi High Court has given partial success to some of the sellers of shares of erstwhile Ranbaxy (Respondents). The Court has held the award to be unenforceable against the Minors. However we are disappointed with the ruling against the rest of the sellers. After studying the order in detail the respondents will decide on further course of action,”  , a company controlled by the Singh brothers, said in a statement.
 
 Regarding the award amount, the court said it was clearly within the domain of the arbitral tribunal to assess damages. "It is not possible to come to a conclusion that the computation done by the arbitral tribunal is in complete breach of statutory provisions or is contrary to fundamental policy of Indian Law inasmuch as the said computation suffers from patent illegality, going to the root of the matter," the court said.
 
 Daiichi had approached the high court in 2016 to seek the enforcement of a Rs 2,562 crore Singapore arbitral award passed in April 2016, along with an additional claim of interest and lawyers' fees incurred in connection with the proceedings.
 
 The tribunal's award had come after the Japanese company invoked arbitration clause against Singhs alleging that they concealed important information while selling Ranbaxy in 2008.
 
