 and finance minister Nitin Patel’s budget for 2018-2019 focused on   for   who are reeling under severe distress.

 The Rupani government had come under bitter attack during the Patidar, Dalit, and OBC agitations over the past three years with three young leaders — Hardik Patel, Jignesh Mevani, and Alpesh Thakor — launching protests over joblessness.
 
 The budgetary provisions show that the government has chalked out an ambitious plan to provide jobs to at least nine lakh youth. The plan includes 30,000 new recruitments in government jobs, four lakh through ‘Rozgaar Melas (recruitment fairs), and self-employment opportunities for nearly two lakh youth through various schemes.
 
 Under the Mukhyamantri Apprenticeship Scheme, graduates will be paid Rs 3,000 per month, diploma-holders Rs 2,000, and others Rs 1,500. They will be paid this stipend in additional to their salaries in the private sector.
 
 The government has also mooted raising 5,000 milch cattle farms in a year with Rs 3 lakh assistance per farm to help 25,000 in rural areas get jobs.
 
 As many as 50,000 skilled and semi-skilled workers and micro and small entrepreneurs in rural areas will be given tool assistance with interest subvention up to 6%; an additional 2% will be given to SCs, STs and divyangs.
 
 However, the government has not unveiled a new vision for most departments.
 
 Significantly, the government has not presented comparative allocation figures for various sectors, unlike in the previous years. For agriculture, farmer welfare and co-operation department, the Gujarat government has proposed Rs 1,101 crore crop price stability fund to minimize the damages caused by natural calamities. The proposal merges the funds from Pradhanmantri Fasal Bima Yojana.
 
 The government has made a push for land and water conservation by allocating Rs 548 crore. Besides, Rs 70 crore has been allocated for primary agricultural credit cooperative scheme. A whopping Rs 27,500 crore has been set aside for education, but there are no schemes that break the mould.
 
 However, the government has made key changes in the popular MA-Vastsalya Yojana by increasing income limit up to Rs 3 lakh and expanding coverage up to Rs 5 lakh.
 
 
