The Times 50   is India’s pick of fresh faces and young talent with great potential. These dishy dudes have oodles of sex appeal and charm, and can sweep you off your feet! Here's a look at some of them... 

 
  
 
 
  The gigantic success of the ‘Baahubali’ franchise has made Prabhas one of the most likeable actors and a pan India star.
 
 : One of the most eligible bachelors in the country, he has often been linked to his ‘Baahubali’ co-star Anushka Shetty. Recently, there were also rumours of him tying the knot with Telugu superstar Chiranjeevi’s niece, Niharika, but the latter’s family denied the news in an official statement. 
 
 : Whether he’s wielding a sword or wooing the ladies with a red rose, the man with the strong baahus has made women go weak in the knees with his charming smile and oh-so-irresistible physique.
 
 
  India’s cricket team captain dominated the sport across all formats in 2017. He made double hundreds and scored the most ODI runs by any cricketer.
 
  He and Anushka Sharma had a fairy-tale destination wedding in Italy that captured the nation’s imagination.
 
  His on-field aggression makes him appealing off the field as well and marriage doesn’t seem to have changed that!
 
 
 
  The actor was praised for his nuanced performance in last year’s romantic-thriller, ‘Kaabil’. He also made headlines for breaking his silence on his alleged affair with Kangana Ranaut.
 
  He has frequently been spotted with ex-wife Sussanne Khan, fuelling rumours of a reconciliation.
 
  His envious Greek God looks and dashing personality.
 
 
 
  ‘A Gentleman: Sundar, Susheel, Risky’ didn’t set the cash registers ringing at the box office, but Ittefaq won him positive reviews. 
 
 : After his break-up with rumoured girlfriend Alia Bhatt, there were talks of a romance with his ‘A Gentleman...’ co-star Jacqueline Fernandez.
 
  He is a stunner, onscreen as well as off the screen and his ‘gentlemanly’ behaviour makes him popular with all the ladies!
 
 
 
 : Even the mixed reviews of his 2017 spy thriller ‘Spyder’ couldn’t dampen the popularity of this Telugu star, who has been termed the Prince of Tollywood. 
 
 : Married to actress Namrata Shirodkar for 13 years, the couple has two kids.
 
 : His quintessential good looks and charm have earned him an envious fan following amongst men and women.
 
 
  His portrayal of the nefarious Bhallaladeva in ‘Baahubali’ created a permanent place for him in the annals of Indian cinema.
 
 : After a heartbreak since his split with actress Trisha, he’s said to be single.
 
 : Lineage. Check. Towering personality. Check. Imposing physique. Check. This hunk’s got it all!
 
 
 
  This hunk from Lucknow bagged the coveted Peter England Mr India World 2017 title. A civil engineer, he is also a district level football player and swimmer. Passionate about acting, he already has a series of short films to his credit.
 
 : Single and living in the moment! 
 
 Those dreamy eyes can tell a million stories.
 
 
 
  This talented Malayalam actor, who had a good run at the box office down South in 2017, is all set to make his Bollywood debut this year.
 
  All those adorable social media pictures and posts with his wife and daughter give us #familygoals!
 
 : His winsome smile and boyish good looks have landed him a spot on this list.
 
 
 
  This model and entrepreneur from Goa was adjudged Peter England Mr India Supranational 2017.
 
  Believe it or not, this hottie is single! 
 
 : His sculpted body and classic good looks make him stand out from the crowd.
 
 
 
 
  This model and TV artiste became a name to reckon with after he won ‘Splitsvilla 10’ last year. He has also given some of the biggest actors of the Telugu industry a run for their money, by topping the Hyderabad Times Most Desirable Men 2017 list!
 
  He is reportedly dating Naina Singh, who also won ‘Splitsvilla 10’. 
 
  Baseer believes he has the X-factor, which sets him apart from the rest. Well, we couldn’t agree more!
 
 
 
  One of the finalists of Peter England Mr India 2016, Varun grabbed eyeballs after he made it in gang leader Prince Narula’s troop in the adventure reality show, Roadies Rising.
 
  He is reportedly dating fashion blogger Saloni Sehra.
 
  A sight for sore eyes, this hottie won the ‘Perfect Body’ tag at the pageant’s sub contest. Look at the picture to the right. Need we say more?
 
 
 
 : He charmed his way into the audience’s hearts with his affable characters in the ‘Pyaar Ka Punchnama’ series and ‘Sonu Ke Titu Ki Sweety’. Now, Kartik has found a spot on this list.
 
 : He broke many hearts when he was spotted with rumoured girlfriend, Indo-Canadian model Dimple Sharma.
 
  He is the charming boy next door, with a dash of sexiness!
 
 
 
  This Mumbai lad, who was judged Peter England Mr India 2017 2nd Runner- Up, has been termed the ‘King of Dance Shows’, as his troupe has been a part of many reality shows. 
 
 : He is yet to ‘dance’ his way into a pretty lady’s heart!
 
  This smart and sassy lad can sway you with his killer moves.
 
 
 
  2017 was a good year for Ali professionally, as he had a Bollywood release, ‘Fukrey Returns’, as well as the Hollywood film, ‘Victoria & Abdul’, where his co-star was Judi Dench!
 
 : He made his relationship with actress Richa Chadha official last year, when he posted an adorable selfie of them on social media.
 
  That dazzling smile and an affable personality are his biggest assets.
 
 
 
  This lawyer-turned-TV actor is best known for his lead role as Dev Dixit in the show ‘Kuch Rang Pyar Ke Aise Bhi’.
 
 : He was rumoured to be in an on-again, off-again relationship with his co-star from the show, Erica Fernandes. Apparently, the couple has called it quits.
 
 : This handsome lad is easily one of the most desirable men on Indian television.
 
 
