Vijayawada: The recent string of child sex abuse cases in Andhra Pradesh has drawn nation-wide public outrage. The scenario in Krishna district is not decent in any sense.

 Officials of women and child welfare department are flooded with   complaints at the one-stop centre. Back in September (2017), a six-year-old girl was rescued after it was learnt that she was repeated raped by her uncle almost for a year at a church in Ghantasala village in Krishna district. When the parents learned about the inicident. they immediately alerted the local police who then arrested the 32-year-old ‘paedophile’. 
 
 Shockingly, villagers tried to stop the officials from allowing the family members to seek police action as it would apparently result in 'shame' for the entire village.
 
 “We had a huge argument with the villagers when we were taking the girl for rehabilitation. Even some of the family members were objecting in taking action against the uncle," Johnson, a child protection officer told TOI. "The girl was sexually abused and was in a desperate condition. She was unable to sit keeping both her legs on the ground. She refused to make eye contact with anyone and stood unaware of what is going on around her," recalled a teary Krishna Kumari, project director of woman and child welfare department. 
 
 Eventually, the accused was arrested and a POCSO case was slapped.
 
 Recollecting another incident where a father allegedly raped his own daughter for a month in Ajit Singh Nagar, Kumari said the mother initially complained against the accused to the welfare department. "The mother, a homemaker, with a seven-year-old daughter and a physically challenged son may have been convinced by her relatives to withdraw the plaint. She turned hostile," Krishna Kumari recollected.
 
 Kumari said a lot of the calls that she receives at the one-stop centre are related to POCSO.. Explaining the difficulty of rehabilitation in some cases, she said young victims are made to divert their attention from those memories. They are kept at home and psychologists are called in for the counselling.
 
 Another issue plaguing children in Krishna district are child marriages. Cops and WCWD acknowledge that several teenagers below 18 years age are getting married. In most cases they are in love and choose to elope in the face of opposition from family.
 
 "According to POCSO law, a minor's consent is invalid and sex in these cases stand as rape even if it is consensual in nature. There are also cases of rapes under the pretext of marriage and even they too come under the ambit of POCSO law," V Krishna Rao, an advocate and a member of Bezwada bar association told TOI. However, over the years there is a declining trend in child marriages however some parts of rural areas still continue with this practice.
 
 Andhra Pradesh is close to the national figure of 2.32 per cent of girls (1,71,083) who got married below their legal age of 18 years; while only 1.8 per cent of boys (1,72,934) were married below their legal age of 21 years. In nine of the13 districts, more than 2 per cent of the girls were below their legal age when they were cound married.
 
 Krishna district marks the highest incidence in the state with 3.3% of the girls (i.e., 20,584 girls) married below the legal age. Anantapur, Vishakhapatnam, Chittoor, Kurnool, Vizianagaram, Nellore, Guntur and Prakasham follow in that order.
 
 Anantapur (16,738), Vishakhapatnam (16,876), Chittoor (15769) and Kurnool (16,532) have child marriage incidence among girls, above the national average (> 2.4%).
 
 
