MUMBAI: At the first-ever global investment summit to be held in the state,  , chief minister   expects an investment of more than Rs 10 lakh crore .

 “Make-in-India was organized by the Centre in February 2016 and we were the co-host. Now, we are organizing   Maharashtra, which is our own event to establish Maharashtra as a destination for global investors. Prime Minister   will inaugurate the summit on February 18,” Fadnavis told TOI.
 
 Calling the Make In India summit a huge success, Fadnavis said that out of the promised Rs 8 lakh crore investments, the state received investments worth Rs 4.09 lakh, 65% of the 2,984 MoUs have been converted into reality and there has been a 75% job generation since then. “We are on the verge of setting a new record in terms of domestic and foreign direct investments,” he added.
 
 A high-ranking bureaucrat told TOI on Monday that the state is likely to sign nearly 5,000 MoUs, with an investment of Rs 10 lakh crore which will generate employment for 35 lakh people.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The bureaucrat said an investment of Rs 3 lakh crore is expected from a petroleum refinery in Ratnagiri. It will be a first of its kind unit, which will come in collaboration with state-run petroleum corporations. “The refinery is expected to create jobs for 8 lakh people on 12,000 acres of land. It will be world’s biggest petroleum project,” he said.
 
 An investment of Rs 3.8 lakh is expected in the affordable housing section too. It has been proposed to construct 16 lakh affordable houses across the state and the project has an employment potential of 29 lakh. Credai-Maharashtra, National   Development Corporation, Maharashtra Chamber of Housing and Industry, Khaleeji Commercial bank, Poddar Housing, Mangal Namoh and Sun Pharmaceutical are among the groups which will construct affordable houses.
 
 The bureaucrat said Fadnavis will unveil at least seven new policies which will encourage sectors like defence, e-automobile, textile, coir, logistics, start-ups and women entrepreneurship. “While there is huge budget for defence production, most items are imported. We will encourage entrepreneurs to manufacture these products in Maharashtra,” he said.
 
 During the three-day event, the PM will also have round table conference with CEOs in presence of the CM. Fadnavis is expected to present the government’s proposed investments as well like Rs 40,000 crore for coastal Road, Rs 42,000 crore for the Nagpur-Mumbai Super Expressway, besides in Metro projects in Pune, Mumbai and Nagpur and the Navi Mumbai airport.
 
 There will be sessions on emerging technologies, future of jobs, creating world-class infra, export-oriented industrialization, water conservation, Mumbai the financial hub–the way ahead and a spotlight session on women entrepreneurs.
 
 
