At the outset, everyone who read 'The Sanitary Man Of Sacred Land', a short story in   Khanna’s book, 'The Legend Of Lakshmi Prasad', found an instant connection with it. The story was inspired by the life of  , a Tamil Nadu-based innovator who revolutionised the concept of menstrual hygiene by creating a machine that can manufacture low cost sanitary pads. Next: filmmaker R Balki was roped in to direct  , a film based on the social activist’s life, with  ,   and   in pivotal roles. Akshay plays Laxmikant Chauhan, inspired by Muruganantham. 

 'Padman' was constructed as an awareness film. It went on floors around March last year at Maheshwar in Madhya Pradesh. Eventually, the unit also filmed at spots in Delhi and at the Brooklyn Bridge, Times Square, Jazz at Lincoln Center and the United Nations Headquarter in New York. 
 
 Muruganantham has worked closely with Akshay on the set, making sure every detail was accurate. Given the role music plays in taking the narrative forward, Amit Trivedi was roped in for the score and Kausar Munir for the lyrics. The album features five songs, including the soulful 'Aaj Se Teri', the energetic 'Pad Man Song' and 'Ladki Sayani Ho Gayi', the first ever Bollywood song about a girl hitting puberty. 
 
 
 
 The climax was a one-take 11-minute long shot given by Akshay. 
 The film was largely shot in the 300- year-old town of Maheshwar. 
 R Balki conducted a recce of the location, where he also wrote the film. 
 Akshay is known to be a stickler for fitness. While filming in Madhya Pradesh, he exercised on the banks of the Narmada river, without any gym or equipment. 
 Costumes play a pivotal role in getting the right look and feel for the narrative. The saris used in the film were bought from a local market in Maheshwar. 
 'Padman' was shot on the IIT campus in Delhi. The National Innovation Foundation also supported the project. The innovations used while filming of a crucial scene were real, and brought from the Rashtrapati Bhavan. 
 Akshay and Sonam shot a few early morning shots in America when the temperature was as low as 1 or 2 degrees. 
 
 Talking about the film, Akshay Kumar says, "You have to be true to the subject and the film. Yes, the film is entertaining, and there are emotions, songs and drama, but we have treated the topic of menstrual hygiene with sensitivity and not tried to make fun of it. It has opened conversations on this subject among men and women and that’s a big change." His wife, and the film's co-producer   adds, "I don’t think Akshay hesitated even for a moment. We didn't even have a discussion about him wearing a sanitary pad in the film; maybe we talked about whether the underwear should be a pink-coloured one. I had written the first two-three chapters (of the story) before meeting Muruganantham, and I had spoken to Akshay about the story at that point. So, he had a fair idea about where the story was going." 
 
 Now, you do have your reasons to go and catch the film at a theatre near you... 
 
 
 
 
 
