NAGPUR: After coming under fire from Nagpur bench of   over failure of authorities to take remedial measures for city’s traffic problems,   chief secretary on Wednesday tendered an conditional apology. He also assured the court meetings of a panel under him would be conducted regularly.

 A division bench of Justices   and   then adjourned the hearing on a bunch of PILs highlighting city’s worsening traffic conditions.
 
 In his affidavit, the secretary clarified meeting of a sub-committee under the divisional commissioner would be held every three months and the panel under him would meet every six months. The judges then directed him to file compliance report after all meetings.
 
 “The panel under the chief secretary was constituted so the long term issues could be answered by them. At least the sub-committee was required to overlook the policy matters and review the decision taken by it under the chairmanship of divisional commissioner,” they noted.
 
 During last hearing, the court asked the chief secretary as to why action should not be taken against him for non-compliance of various directions issued by the HC. “We clarify that, at this moment, we are not insisting upon presence of the chief secretary. However, if we find there is no proper explanation, we may be compelled to do so,” the judges warned.
 
 They pointed out that it was only when petitioner’s counsel   brought to the fore that the meeting panel under chief secretary had not been conducted till date, the government informed that sub-panel’s meeting was scheduled on April 2.
 
 “We are amazed with the things that happens with government. Only after the court reminds them of their duties, they are set in motion. At times, a notice of contempt is required to be issued to make them active. No sooner the dust of the contempt proceedings settles down, the authorities return to their original position. It appears that, in spite of it being pointed out that the meeting of committee is not held, still its members has not woken up from deep slumber,” the judges said.
 
 
