MEERUT : Such was the lure of the Meerut’s iconic Nauchandi fair that the   named a train after it. On Sunday, the fair kicked off amid much fanfare, but without any preparation on the ground, literally. The ground on which the month-long fair is to be organised was in a shambles a week ago, and the situation was no better on Sunday also, when fair was opened for public. Pits filled with water greeted the visitors, and debris of construction material was strewn all over the ground.
 
  “It is sad that the venue of the iconic fair is in a shambles. The ground should be cleaned from time to time and be kept spic and span throughout, irrespective of the fact whether the fair is there or not,” Vishwajeet Bembi, who runs a city-based NGO Pahal-Ek Prayas, which works for cleanliness, has said last week.
  
  Meerut mayor Sunita Verma has also ordered deployment of sanitary workers to clean the venue, however, to no avail.
  
  As per the tradition, the fair is inaugurated on the second Sunday after Holi. This time, it is being organised by Meerut Municipal Corporation (MMC).
  
  Though work on Nauchandi ground, especially Patel Mandap where all the key events take place, is still pending, Meerut divisional commissioner Prabhat Kumar and Meerut mayor Sunita Verma inaugurated the fair by letting off caged pigeons on Sunday.
  
  The divisional commissioner said, “When Jagmohan Malhotra was the governor of Jammu and Kashmir, he had deployed sanitary workers in a way that the moment somebody throws garbage at Vaishno Devi, it was picked up. I have asked Meerut mayor to have similar arrangements at the spot.”
  
  Nauchandi fair is known for its rides, such as giant wheel and death well, the colourful circus and the famous halwa paratha.
  
  Over the years, the fair, which began as a one-day congregation of cattle traders during the Mughal era (in 1672 AD), has grown to be a much bigger and longer affair today. It is alternatively hosted by nagar nigam and zila panchayat every year.
