The boom in the aviation sector and opening of skies across the globe coupled with growing tourism and overseas employment opportunities have resulted in a dramatic surge in people thronging passport offices seeking passports.

 In Coimbatore regional passport office, comprising six districts in western  , the number of passport applications has doubled in the last five years. From 9,8125 applications received in 2013, the number shot up to 1.79 lakh in 2017 in Coimbatore RPO.
 
 "In the last few years, a number of flights to overseas destinations have increased manifold bringing down the travelling cost. This is the primary reason for the surge in passport applicants hoping to travel abroad,’’ said regional passport officer G Shivakumar. Travel agents too agree. People who would have never imagined about overseas travel few years back have now jumped into the global tourism bandwagon.
 
 Though there was a gradual increase in the number of applications since 2013, 2016 witnessed a steep rise. While there was a 10 to 15% rise annually, 2016 saw a sudden rise of 50,000 applicants, the highest since 2010, say passport officials.
 
 "This could be because of simplification of passport application procedures,’’ says former Coimbatore regional passport officer S Sasikumar. Now, the applicant shall submit just their   and Class 10 mark sheet, unlike the past when they need to submit multiple documents such as ration card, bank passbooks and school mark sheets. The Centre had introduced another simplified scheme in January 2017 under which, an applicant will be given passport without police verification if they submit Aadhar, voter ID and Pan Card or Ration card. "Police verification will be done after the passport is issued. This reduces the waiting period for the applicant,’’   said.
 
 Passport officials attribute the surge in passport applications to youth population. There is a lot of awareness among youth on the need for passport. "Besides, we conduct a lot of ‘passport melas’ in educational institutions, which the students make use of,’’ said an officer. There are a growing number of women too applying for passports for multiple reasons such as jobs and tourism.
 
 In spite of the rise in number of applications, the passport office has managed to maintain the same time taken for dispatch of each passport. 
 
 The RPO despatches passports within 21 days on an average after the application is submitted with all details and documents. Passport officials say there could be some delay in few cases because of the time taken for police verification.
 
 
