GHAZIABAD: A six-and-a-half-year-old   is on ventilator support after falling several floors through a fibre   into the   of a   housing society on Wednesday.

 
 It was not immediately clear if Garvit Garg, a student of Class II of Amity International School in Noida, fell from the ninth floor of Antriksh Green apartments, where he lives in a three-bedroom flat with his parents, or the seventh floor, where he was playing with a few friends on the corridor. There was also speculation that Garvit had stepped on the   to fetch a ball after crossing over the railing on the second floor and it crumbled under his weight.
 
 The spot where the boy fell face down is not directly under the flat where he lived. The   sheet had been installed on the second floor to provide cover to the basement below. Garvit has been admitted to Max Superspecialty Hospital in Vaishali, where he has been placed on ventilator support in the ICU.
 
 Garvit’s parents run a business of water filters and purifiers. His father Shikhar Garg was in China on a business trip when the accident happened and was expected to return home late on Wednesday night. Sources said Garvit’s mother Praveena was working out of her office in a 12th-floor apartment in the building.
 
 Guard Pradeep Thapa, who was on duty at the rear of the building when Garvit fell into the basement, said: “I heard a loud thud which seemed to have come from the fibre sheet above. But I could not see anything up there. I soon realised that a boy was lying on the floor and bleeding profusely. Her mother was informed and the boy was rushed to a nearby hospital.”
 
 Garvit was later referred to Max hospital when his condition deteriorated.
 
 Residents of a three-storied building facing the rear side of the apartment said they rushed to their terrace after hearing a commotion. “We heard a commotion and rushed to the terrace. We noticed a number of kids on a balcony on one of the top floors. They were howling over something. We then saw the injured kid being carried away towards the gate,” a resident of the three-storied building, Mala, said.
 
 No CCTV camera covers the area of the society where the accident took place. Residents said the patch of the fibre sheet through which Garvit fell had been weakened earlier when a flower pot had fallen on it during a dust storm.
 
 Police said that local residents were being questioned. “From enquiries conducted so far, it seems that the kid fell from the ninth-floor balcony. We are conducting an inquiry,” said Indirapuram SHO Sachin Malik.
 
 
