BHOPAL/INDORE: Three days before its scheduled release, Padmaavat plunged into deeper uncertainty on Monday with threats of violence from Karni Sena and the chilling announcement that 300 Rajput women have volunteered for ‘Jauhar’ in Chittorgarh if the movie is screened.

 The Central Cinema Circuit Association (CCCA) — an umbrella body of 2,000 film distributors and exhibitors of Maharashtra,  ,   and Rajasthan — announced on Monday that they cannot screen the movie in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan for fear of violence, and because the governments in both states are standing back and doing nothing to stop the agitation.
 
 
 
 Shree Rajput Karni Sena on Monday said it is ready to watch the pre-screening of Padmaavat only if it is shown the version of the film. It added that it shouldn’t be misguided by showing any other version. Outfit founder L S Kalvi said his group had got a letter of invitation from the film director on January 20.
 
 
 
 Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the government will do everything possible to “prevent the spread of anarchism in the state”. “We have filed a review petition in Supreme Court in this regard,” he said at Omkareswar.
 
 But it did little to assuage tempers of the protesters or allay fears of distributors and cinema owners.
 
 In Chattarpur, Karni members marched to cinemas and asked their owners not to screen the movie. Shoobh Pratap Singh, the Karni Sena district president, said, “We will set fire to cinemas if they show the movie.” Chakka jams erupted across the state. In  , protesters created a ruckus at cinemas and asked them not to screen the controversial movie. They tried to enter Jyoti Talkies but were held at a bay by police.
 
 CCCA president   Choukse told TOI that Padmaavat may turn out to be a blockbuster in south India,  , and the Seven Sisters, but “the possibility of its release in MP and Rajasthan is nearly zero”. “The governments in these two states are not only supporting the protest but standing as mute spectators to the open violation of law and contempt of court by these outfits. The statements by those who oppose the film are clearly disrespectful of the Supreme Court’s order and are also in violation of reasonable restrictions on speech. The filmmakers must screen the movie on television or launch it on the web,” Choukse said.
 
 IG (inteligence) Makrand Deoskar told media that SPs in all 51 districts have been asked to be alert and prepare a list of theatres where Padmaavat will be screened. They will get in touch with theatre owners and take necessary steps to ensure safety and security, said the IG, adding that there have been protests in Malwa region and some people were arrested.
 
 What adds an ominous new dimension to the crisis is the threat of Jauhar. Urmila Prahalad Singh Tomar, state president of the women’s wing of Karni Sena, said, “A large number of women from the state have registered for   in Chittorgarh.” Karni Sena state organisational secretary Shailandra Singh put the number at
 
 300. Urmila, an Ujjain resident and wife of a former SP, said: “The Kshatriya community is disturbed the way Rani Padmawati is portrayed in the movie. We are determined to stop it.” Shailandra Singh told TOI, “Many things will happen if the film is screened. We will not divulge details now. We will wait for the Supreme Court hearing on Tuesday. Our next course of action will be decided after the SC’s decision.” 
 
