Mungaoli (Ashoknagar): The   has turned into a battle of caste, where both Congress and BJP have put political interests ahead of the development agenda.

 Both parties have fielded Yadav candidates — who are relatives — and could grab equal share of votes in their community. BJP believes it has the strategic edge by nominating Baisaab, wife of former MLA   Singh Yadav. Congress is equally confident that it has blunted this tactic smartly by fielding Deshraj’s cousin, Brijendra Singh Yadav. Voters of Mungaoli consider both from the same family.
 
 With Yadav votes likely to be split, the other caste factor will tip the scales in Mungaoli. Rajkumar Singh, whose dhaba on the outskirts of Mungaoli buzzes with political debates these days, says: “Both parties started with the development plank, but fielded Yadav candidates, dividing the 50,000 votes of the community in half. Now, the main battle will be focused on other communities like SCs, Lodhi and Dangis.” 
 
 There are 35,000 SC votes, 20,000 Lodhi and 18,000 Dangi votes, which could change the fate of either party, locals say. In a neck-and-neck race, other castes also play an important role — chiefly the Kataria community, with 15,000 votes. Gurjars, Kushwahs and Brahmins together make up for 10,000 votes. Jains and Muslims have 7,000 votes each. 
 
 BJP needs to fill a gap of 22,000 votes it lost to Congress in the 2013 assembly polls. This is why the caste equation takes centrestage this time.
 
 BJP claims it is Congress that started castes politics. “We have always promised development. Congress played the caste card because it lost the previous three elections to our development card. Now, they blame BJP,” said Komal Singh Dangi, a local BJP leader in Mungaoli.
 
 A section of voters isn’t impressed with the high-voltage tussle over an MLA, who will only be around for eight months. Assembly polls are due in November. “For just six months or so, parties are creating a big drama. They promise development and are unlikely to be seen until the next election. This is a ritual and will be repeated in November,” said Rajpal Kushwaha, a local vendor.
 
  of Kushipur village explained just how used they are to these tactics: “When Congress was in power, it waived electricity bills in the 1998 election. Later, BJP issued recovery notices. But again, during polls, electricity bills were waived. We knew it would happen so we simply didn’t pay the bills.” The Rs 1,000 per month that the government has announced for every tribal woman and other sops can change the fate of any party, he reasoned. “But why it happened after 14 years is the major issue,” he said.
 
 Mungaoli doesn’t wear the trappings of a poll-bound region. Scattered groups go around shouting slogans. There are hoardings here and there. The silence holds suspense for both sides.
 
