 and   saved the best of their month-long stay in Delhi for the last. After completing the Delhi shoot schedule for Junglee Pictures’ and Chrome Pictures’ upcoming film  , the actors’ last day in NCR was spent at   in  , where they danced, sang and checked out the swanky campus. The two were in awe of the sprawling campus, and while taking a tour of the Sports Complex, which also has a swimming pool, Ayushmann said, “It is a beautiful campus and has great facilities. I also met the dean and professors. The students are intelligent and it is a great university. My college had good sports facilities too, but we have to see this!” Sanya added, “I was planning to go on a sabbatical after a few movies, I think I’ll just come here!”

 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 Their interaction with the students began with a few Ayushmann fans singing his songs on the stage, and the actor – impressed with their performance – joined them. Ayushmann also grabbed a guitar and sang his popular tracks as he played along on the guitar. While Ayushmann is popular for his singing, Sanya is known for her love of dancing. The students had prepared a dance for her welcome, and Sanya and Ayushmann later joined them on the stage to match their steps. All the fun was followed by an interaction with the students, and the actors talked about their journey in Bollywood, and told aspiring actors to take their classes seriously. The actors also met the Vice Chancellor of Bennett University, Dr Raghunath K Shevgaonkar, ex-Director, IIT Delhi, and ex-chair professor, IIT Bombay. 
 
  
  Ayushmann Khurrana plays the guitar and sings a few lines from 'Pani Da Rang'
 
 
  
  Ayushmann dances with Bennett University students
 
  
  Ayushmann and Sanya take a selfie with the students
 
  
  Ayushmann and Sanya check out the pool at the Sports Complex of the university
 
 
 
 Ayushmann, an actor and singer, started his career as an RJ. So one of the first things that the students asked him was, “If you had to choose between acting and singing, what would you choose?”. Ayushmann replied, “It’s a tough question. Our films are all about song and dance. Films can’t really work without music. I think it’s a collaboration of both, they have to exist together. I can’t choose. I really can’t. They are like air and water. I have lived my life to the fullest, as I wanted to. I have dabbled in a lot of professions. I started as a theatre actor and then I became a VJ, then RJ. I write also. So I don’t know. I’m still really confused in life!” 
 
  From ‘Vicky Donor’ to ‘Shubh Mangal Saavdhan’, Ayushmann is known to pick quirky scripts. The actor said, “You should be really courageous to take up clutter-breaking roles. I feel that is how a society evolves. This is the time when we can do something progressive.” 
 
  The actor, whose love for poetry is not a secret, also recited a few lines. “A few days back, I shared this on my Instagram, ‘Manzilein hongi kisi aur ko pasand, mujhe toh raaste pasand hain.’ Raaste mein tumhe jitni problems aa rahi hain, that will make you a better person. Success is a lousy teacher, I think you should accept failure and learn from it,” he said.
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  Ayushmann and Sanya join the students on the stage 
 
  
  Sanya plays badminton in the Sports Complex
 
  
  Ayushmann tries his hand at badminton 
 
  
  A student shows off his musical skills in front of the actors
 
 
 
 
 When Sanya was asked what she would be doing if she weren’t an actor, she promptly replied, “Dancing.” Some acting enthusiasts wanted to know the secret to make it in Bollywood, and Sanya had a practical solution: “Pack your bags and go to Mumbai if you want to work in Bollywood.” She then paused and added, “If you want to work in theatre, then Delhi has a good theatre scene. Work on your dreams.” Ayushmann added, “If you are passionate about acting, you need perspective from the outside world also. Aapko acting aati hai ki nahin aati, your immediate family and friends will tell you. But you are the mirror of how good you are. I think with that you can go to Mumbai.” 
 
  When a student asked Sanya about her struggling days in Mumbai, the actress said that she would not call her experiences a struggle. “I have seen a lot in life, but I would not call it struggle. That is a very negative term for me. I have learnt from all my mistakes, from all the auditions I could not clear. I used all that learning when I went to audition for  . I participated in a dance reality show and in that audition, I was doubting myself, so I didn’t get through. After that, I decided I will never doubt myself.” 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Sanya had another important message for the students. She said, “Believe in yourself. When I was studying in Delhi, I had no idea what to do with my career and where to go after my graduation. My father was the one who told me, ‘Beta tumse padhai toh ho nahi payegi, toh tum jao Mumbai aur acting karo.’ Even when I went to Mumbai to act, I had no idea where I should go and give auditions, but I think patience is the key. Enjoy your whole journey. Even if you don’t know what to do and where to go, don’t worry. Life is not that complicated, just have fun. Studying is really important, though. I decided to be an actor, but in college I participated in dancing and other things, and that gave me a platform to perform in front of the audience. It gave me confidence to face the camera.”
 
 
  
  
 
 Ayushmann also stressed on the importance of having fun through it all. “I think having fun is important. If you are not having fun while pursuing your passion, you are not going anywhere. At the same time, take your classes seriously because without education, nothing will work. If an artist doesn’t have education, he will not survive. An artist needs awareness, discipline, and exposure to survive,” he said. The actor, however, concluded by saying, “We are not here to give you lectures, as you already get enough lectures here!”
 
 
  
  Ayushmann and Sanya having fun on the stage
 
  
  Ayushmann sings for students
 
  
  Sanya and Ayushmann sign t-shirts for students
 
  
  Sanya and Ayushmann with Dr Raghunath K Shevgaonkar, Vice Chancellor, Bennett University 
 
  
  Sanya and Ayushmann meet Sachin Jain, President, Bennett University
 
  
  Students dance to the actors' popular tracks
 
  
  Ayushmann and Sanya's day out at Bennett University comes to an end
 
 
 
 
