Come   and a whole world of visual splendour flashes in front of one’s eyes: the colourful muggulu, kites decking the sky, cockfights, pindivantalu, and the traditional gangireddu going from door-to-door; the memories are endless. And every Telugu, irrespective of where he is, makes it a point to go home and celebrate this festival with his family at his native place. This Sankranti, Hyderabad Times spoke to mana Tollywood stars to find out about their plans for the festival and what it means to them.

 
 For Bhogi, I hosted a bonfire party for my close buddies at my house in Jubilee Hills. There was plenty of food, but the regipandu (ber) and sugarcane were the seasonal favourites. I make it a point not to miss them! On Sankranti day, I’m going to fly kites at the home of any one of my many friends in the city. While there are plenty of invitations, whoever has the best food on the menu will be my priority (laughs). 
 
 
 this year, I’m celebrating the festival in Hyderabad with my family but the real Sankranti happens in our native village, Korumamidi in West Godavari district. We are a huge family of nearly 70 people filled with many aunts, uncles, cousins... In our village, more than cockfights, it’s about kite competitions, muggula potilu and vana bhojanalu. We visit all our friends and neighbours in the village and surrounding areas. It is essentially a time for family bonding. I have many fond memories of celebrating the festival by watching movies with my father (late EVV Satyanarayana). We used to be charged up around Sankranti time as it meant big releases. Now, with everyone moving to the city and every household having at least two-three people settled outside the village, things have mellowed down!
 
 
 I’ve always celebrated Sankranti at my grandparents’ place in Satrampadu, Eluru. It was a time for great fun and I used to stay back there for nearly two weeks — well after my parents left. But after my grandparents passed away, the celebrations have become somewhat muted. Every year, during this festival I am reminded of them. I remember how they used to tell me to become either a doctor or an IAS officer. To me, Sankranti meant being pampered by my grandparents, mouth-watering delicacies and a gala time with my friends. This year though, I’m busy with the post-production work of my film. 
 
 
 this year is special ’cos now I too can boast of having had a ‘Sankranti release’. I am completely focused on my film this year, but otherwise, every year for the festival, we visit either our grandparents or our aunts and uncles. To me, Sankranti is about cricket, cinema and pindivantalu. We allot one day during the festival to only movies and watch two-three in a single day. Everyone in the family loves cinema and my cousins and I discuss movies when we meet up. The elders get busy playing cards, while we play cricket. The celebrations are a little sober at home this year since my grandmother is not in good health. 
 
 
 The last couple of years, we have been celebrating the festival at my in-laws’ place in Rajamahendravaram. I really love Bhogi, which marks the end of the cold January weather. For me, the festival is about catching up with family and friends, sitting on the terrace and having long chats till late in the night, catching the evening shows in the villages and of course, gorging on the Sankranti delicacies such as pulihora, payasam and pindivantalu. In the Godavari district, one can see the full splendour of the festival in all its colour and vibrancy — the cockfights, picnics and various other competitions. I make it a point that no work is scheduled during this time. This year, though, we’ll be celebrating the festival in Hyderabad. My father is in Bangalore and I hope he can make it in time to celebrate with us.
 
  
 Sankranti has to be with the family because that itself is so difficult these days. So, we all gathered at our   house for Bhogi last morning. later, we had a lavish breakfast, for which my dad ( ) had flown in cooks from different parts of AP and Telangana. I also bought a half-saree, churidar and a gown for Sankranti. And I might be flying kites at one of my friend’s house in Secunderabad today morning. Later, we are all going to watch Telugu movies with my family in my dad’s home theatre. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
