NAGPUR: While robotic   can reduce complications such as blood loss, trauma and pain, the surgeries can be made more economical.

 City oncosurgeon Dr Abhinav Deshpande, under the mentorship of Dr Somashekhar SP of  , along with a team of surgeons, is working to make improvements in robotic cancer surgeries to provide better access and ease to surgeons as well as patients.
 
 Dr Deshpande, along with his team, has worked towards making the ‘Indian (Manipal) Modification’ where they have changed the orientation of the ports in the robot. Patients diagnosed with large-intestinal (rectal) cancer and uterus cancer at their institute participated in the study.
 
 “Going by the recommended placements of ports, or entry devices to the body, clashes between robotic arms and instruments were observed. Moreover, our modification reduced the need for number of staplers that are used for cutting intestine significantly, which affects the cost of surgery,” says Deshpande.
 
 Cartridges of the staplers need to be disposed after use and can cost anywhere between Rs 10,000-20,000. The study also found that all the selected areas required to be exposed for surgeries were better addressed.
 
 Dr Deshpande is a fellow of   foundation, which provides a training platform to young robotic surgeons. Dr Deshpande also presented a paper on ‘Port Placements: Indian modification for robotic oncosurgeries’ at the   conference held recently and got the award for the best paper.
 
 “If robotic surgery is made accessible for the doctors, it also reflects in the quality of treatment provided to the patients, reducing intra operative as well as post-operative complications,” said Dr Deshpande.
 
 “There is a general notion that   are expensive and are a luxury. However, there are studies which have compared the overall cost of hospitalization and the long-term outcome, which proved cheaper for the patients when all other adjunct factors are compared overall, including the ICU stay and higher antibiotics. Moreover, anything that causes least possible trauma and injury becomes a necessary option,” he said.
 
 Dr Deshpande said that a conventional procedure involves big incision on the abdomen or chest region, which may increase the risk of post-operative wound infections, bleeding & pain.
 
 “A robotic set-up can cost around Rs 10-17 crore depending on the type of system used, and has made inroads in all fields of surgery, including transplants. Robotic surgeries can help where surgeons are restricted by the limitations of human hand, provide 3D vision, and enables precise manipulation of organs,” said Dr Deshpande
 
 He added that he is optimistic that the concept is going to catch up with patients and facilities of insurance in this regard will come up.
 
 
