Indore: The MGM Medical College & Hospital authority has   interview against 68 posts of professors and associate professors for the proposed   in Indore on Tuesday till further orders. Recruitment in Bhopal has also been postponed. 

 “Following confusion over the rules of conducting the interviews, the authority has decided to postpone it till the next orders” the MGM college dean Dr Sharad Thora said.
 
 He said, medical education department additional chief secretary Radheshyam Julania will on Wednesday hold a video conference and everything is likely to get cleared in the meeting.
 
 The members of MP Medical Teachers Association (MPMTA) had been protesting over the recruitment process of professors and associate professors for the proposed super speciality centre. “Interview against 68 posts- 21 professors and 47 associate professors- at the centre was scheduled on March 21. Our objection was against the guidelines of administration for reserving 15 out of total 20 points of the   for the candidates, who have served in a super speciality centre at least for four years,” MPPTA secretary Dr Rahul Rokade said.
 
 He added that there were assistant professors and associate professors, who had been serving for more than 10 years and were waiting to get promotion, but the administration rule was a major obstacle before them.
 
 “As per MCI guidelines, possessing degree of MD-MS along with four years of teaching experience and two publications at the post of assistant professor and three years of teaching experience and four publications are required for the candidates to appear in the interview for the next promotion,” Dr Rokade said.
 
 He said that instead of promoting the doctors serving in MGM Medical College, who have already crossed this bar, the authority had made a new rule of reserving 15 marks for the candidates, who had more than four years of experience in super speciality centre. They should have taken seniority and publications as the basis of promotion.
 
  Foundation stone of the long-pending super speciality centre is likely to be laid down in April.
 
 “We have made all the preparations to start the construction work. Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan and the chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan are being approached for the foundation laying ceremony in April,” Thora told TOI.
 
 
