Nagpur: Even though the official boycott for RTE school registration is still on, the process is almost complete with 98% schools complying with government directives in Nagpur district. An official with the local education department told TOI that total 650 schools, out of 663, have already registered online in district. The official added that 570 schools complied voluntarily, which comes to around 86 per cent. The others were ‘auto-registered’. “This was done at the state-level where last year’s data was used to fill the forms online,” said the official. Now, just over a dozen schools remain in Nagpur and the education department hopes to complete that process in the next few days. The new deadline for RTE registrations is January 30.  While this is seen by the education department as a victory over boycotting schools by exposing chinks in their armour, associations feel otherwise. Rajendra Dayma, vice-president of Independent English Schools Association (IESA), said, “We have had many cases of education officials threatening schools and coercing them to register. First, they targeted trustees which also control aided schools. Education officials told such trustees that their aided schools will run into trouble if the unaided institutes do not register.”  While there is no way to prove whether these allegations are true or not, fact is that schools are registering. Dayma, said, “Even if at the end only 500 schools (across the state) are left standing without registration, that is okay. It is important to take a stand and stick with it because it concerns the future of education.” He added that the state can always auto-register every school and ‘inflate’ figures. “Let them do whatever they feel because we have taken a decision and will stand firm right till the end. Most of our members have said that they will not give admissions even if they have registered. In fact, in my meetings with schools I always say that I will be the last to register even if we decide to do so,” said Dayma.  School education minister Vinod Tawde, in a written statement, had clarified on Wednesday that the government has already released more than 50% of the total RTE dues and the remaining amount shall be paid soon. According to Tawde, the total RTE bill, since 2012, is just over Rs300 crore while schools say it is at least four times higher. Tawde also urged schools to “to join hands for the upliftment of children of disadvantaged and weaker section of the society by giving them opportunity to free education”. 