For the past 766 days, Parassala native SR Sreejith had been staging a sit-in protest in front of the Secretariat seeking justice for his brother  , who was allegedly killed in police custody in 2014.
The 29-year-old has endured the rains, mosquito bites and scorching heat outside the Secretariat, while his protest went ‘unnoticed’ by the politicos and public activists until social media took up the cause.
 From hashtags like #JusticeForSreejith, #Avanoppam and even framing their social media profile pictures with #PramukhanallathaSreejithinoppam, the netizens exploded with posts expressing their solidarity with him. This has apparently finally opened the eyes and deaf ears of authorities and politicians who are now forming a beeline along with celebrities to meet him and maybe cash in on the attention.
 Just like Sreejith, the Secretariat has many other protestors whose causes are still overlooked; and probably need a hashtag campaign to get noticed. We listen in to their plight too:
 
 
 
 
 
  - 766 Days
 
 Sreejith’s younger brother Sreejeev was taken into custody by Parassala police in connection with a mobile phone theft case and the police claimed that he consumed poison while under custody. 
 
 Later, a report by the State Police Complaints Authority (SPCA) cited that Sreejeev died of external injuries, and sought action against the circle inspector Gopakumar, sub-inspector Bijukumar and ASI Philipose, who were posted at the Parassala police station then.
 The protest has left Sreejith lean and fragile and his words trail off sometimes due to the dry throat while talking to media and visitors. In a hushed voice, Sreejith says, “I had submitted petitions to the Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, who was the home minister when my brother Sreejeev died, and all the other authorities concerned, but they simply failed to take any action.”
 
 He says the SPCA report asserts that the reason for his brother’s death was physical assault from the police officers. “Even the post-mortem report mentions the swollen areas and marks on his body. He was taken to the police station to keep him away from the marriage function of his girlfriend. ASI Philipose is a friend of the girl’s father, who framed a false case against my brother to get him arrested. I will continue this strike until proper legal action is taken against those who are responsible for his death even if I have to die here,” says Sreejith, who has been on a hunger strike for the past 30 days. 
 
 Sreejith began his protest in May 2015. He switched to hunger strike the next year onwards. As per the reports, the government had given `10 lakh relief to Sreejith’s family and had requested for a CBI enquiry, but CBI denied the probe as “it is not a case of rare and exceptional nature”. 
 
 
 
 
 Jalal M R and Kanakamma - 900 Days
 
 Jalal MR, a native of Kunnappuzha, Thiruvananthapuram, has been staging a protest in front of the Secretariat for the past two and a half years, along with his mother’s younger sister Kanakkamma (72). His demand is to provide him a job and a house in their hometown.
 
 On what prompted them to make their appeal, he says, “I wanted a government job and I had passed all PSC tests that I attempted. But I was ignored by the officials. They excluded my name from all the short lists. The reason I believe is because of the grudges I had with the PSC Employees’ Union. My mother left me and Kanakkamma took care of me. So I had no other way than staging protest here. Though I knocked every door in the Secretariat, there was no response.”
 
 The duo has made a make-shift roof at the footpath outside the Secretariat under which they continue the protest. Kanakkamma met with an accident last December near the protesting area. But when she speaks about her anguish of not having a roof of her own, the pain of her swollen left foot covered with flies doesn’t reflect on her face.
 
 Jalal says the General Hospital, Palayam, had denied her treatment. “She was hit by a car of a political leader and the police did not register the accident. At the hospital, the doctor denied us treatment. With the help of some good people, we were able to get medical aid from Ayurveda College hospital. I don’t know why they didn’t even show us basic humanitarian concern,” he says.
 
 The two sometimes go to sleep with empty stomachs for days. And they consider it joyful when people offer them free food packets once a day. 
 
 
 
 
 Aadivasi Dalit Munnetta Samiti - 339 days
 
 The protesters of Arippa Bhoosamaram moved to the Secretariat premises in February 13, 2017, for an indefinite strike against the government’s ineffective promises to appropriate farmlands to landless tribal and other dalit groups.
 Neelakuyil K, ADMS Thiruvananthapuram district secretary, says, “On December 31, 2012, a large group of adivasis, dalits and landless peasants, encroached into the Arippa forest in Kulathupuzha village in Kollam. Later we moved to the Secretariat to make our agitation strong.”
 Their demand is for a land for cultivation as opposed to just three cents that is being offered. “It is not practically possible to live in three cents of land as toilet and drinking water facilities will be affected. We had to cremate our dear ones just like disposing stray dogs. We want land for cultivation and house with basic amenities. The government is responsible to allocate the land for us,” she says.
 The group says that they have surveyed areas in districts such as Kottayam, Kollam, Thiruvananthapuram and Pathanamthitta where acres of government land are left unattended which is favourable for habitation.
 Around 10 protestors stage strike here in rotation but none of the officials including the CM’s office has looked at the issue or initiated talks till date, they claim. “Under the order of Human Rights Commission, there was a move to evacuate us from here. But we will leave only after the government satisfies our demands,” says Neelakuyil.
 
 
 
 
 Sethu - 300 days
 
 Kilimanoor native Sethu will complete his 300th day of protest on Monday. He was a labourer, who supported his wife and three children, a son and two daughters studying in Class 9 and 12.
 
 He was forced to start a strike when rocks from a quarry fell on top of his house, weakening its structure. To prevent further damages, Sethu gave petitions to the Chief Minister, human rights commission, SC/ST communities and child rights commissions and several district collectors but all of them turned a deaf ear.
 
 According to him, the quarry unit, which is just 130 meters away from his house, is still active and hasn’t paid even a single penny as compensation to him. Sethu and his family even met with the Chief Minister, who had assured them of a solution. However, that was merely a gesture, and as a result Sethu tried to cut his vein in front of the Secretariat last year. That landed him in jail for five days.
 
 To draw more attention to his cause, he even conducted a solo day and night strike in front of the Collectorate two months ago.
 “After returning to the Secretariat premises, I had to face blackmailing and the higher authorities from the quarry and the government officials have come to me with ideas for compromises. But I will not back out,” says Sethu. “My need is justice and not to receive a ransom amount as compensation. There are around 200 families out there like us in the area. Even if the authorities will grant me Rs 50 lakh as compensation, what will other families do? I don’t want my next generation to beg here like dogs for justice, to live without the fear of any quarry mafias in future.”
 
  Sethu, who has started a hunger strike from Friday, says that his children have dropped out of school as they don’t have money anymore. “Last month, my brother was rushed to the Medical College Hospital after a road accident. I couldn’t visit him as I did not have the money to take a pass to enter. I was sitting here waiting for justice even when my brother died a painful death at hospital. This sole protest is to shut down the inhumane quarry mafia,” says Sethu.
 
