CHENNAI: Data from the   suggests that people in districts with low   have utilised the ‘108’ emergency   services more effectively than those in places with high literacy rates.

 The state health department’s ‘108’ ambulance services, on an average, handle 1.1 lakh emergency cases every month and nearly 50% of them pertain to road accidents and pregnancies. 
 
 On an average, 2% of emergency calls received by 108 helpline goes unavailed as poeple who make the calls end up using private vehicles to reach hospitals. Most of these calls can be traced to districts like Chennai, Kanyakumari and Coimbatore, which are districts with high literacy rates. 
 
 People from these districts tend to use ‘unsafe’ modes of transportation like autorickshaws, cars and other vehicles which pass by the accident spots to get to the nearest health centre even if an ambulance is just a few minutes away, say officials from GVK-EMRI, a firm which organises ambulance services in coordination with the government.
 
  
  
 Experts from the state health department said specialised pre-hospital care can be given only in ambulances and improper posture of accident victims and pregnant women in private vehicles result in further complications.
 
 Districts with high literacy rate also have high per capita income and vice versa, according to data from the department of economics and statistics. Thus people in these districts with high per capita income prefer private institutions in case of pregnancies and in most cases they use their own vehicles, the officials added. Access to healthcare and transportation facilities is also high in these districts. 
 
 Government records sourced by TOI suggest that the distance between accident spots and hospitals are very less in districts with high literacy rates and people tend to immediately shift the victims using vehicles passing by the accident spot. 
 
 “Unlike other vehicles, highly trained Emergency Medical Technicians (EMT) are available only in ambulance services and awareness campaigns are conducted in the state urging people to utilise 108 emergency services for all kinds of medical emergencies,” the official said. 
 
 Districts like Ariyalur and Perambalur with low literacy rates and limited access to private transportation facilities utilise ambulances more effectively for pregnancy-related emergencies.
 
 
