NEW DELHI: The East Delhi Municipal Corporation ( ) has   a   to hire a   for developing an   that would track the   of   and even the current status of  .

 For a long time, east Delhi residents have been complaining about the over-flowing garbage dumps and irregular door-to-door collection. Senior officials of EDMC claimed that the project would help the residents track the real-time location of auto-tippers and trucks that collect garbage. 
 
 “A central control room is being set up at the EDMC headquarters where the real-time situation of garbage dumps (dhalaos) will be monitored. CCTV cameras will be installed at all dhalaos and the department will deploy vehicles as per the requirement,” said a senior official.
 
 The solar-powered CCTV cameras will record pictures of the dhalaos at an interval of every 15 minutes. “With a back up of five days, the civic body will be able to catch the violators. All vehicles will be covered by the GPS-based monitoring system and their live location will be visible on the portal, edmctracking.com. The system will also help us in identifying those burning garbage near dhalaos,” said the official. 
 
 The corporation has 124 garbage trucks, 302 auto-tippers, 100 tractor-trolleys and 30 loaders. All these vehicles will have functioning GPS systems before the project is launched. EDMC has set a deadline of three months to make the system up and running. The monitoring system will focus on tracking entry and exit times of auto-tippers that collect garbage from every ward. “If a vehicle skips a ward, the system will show the same and appropriate action will be taken,” he added.
 
 The corporation, which is part of Centre for Science and Environment’s ‘City That Segregates’ forum, is also going to use this system to implement door-to-door collection. While the corporation is going through a severe financial crisis for the past few years, officials claimed that the technology used for this project was affordable and EDMC would be able to manage its cost. 
 
 
