LUDHIANA: With the MC election drawing near, the industrial town is bustling with activities. As soon as the parties will decide the name of the candidates, the political aspirants will start knocking the door of the voters and will try to woo them with their poll promises.

 However, the residents are peeved. The residents had certain issues in the last MC polls. They were promised the solutions too. However, most of their promises never got fulfilled. The residents blamed the area councillors and civic authorities for not paying attention towards these issues. TOI made a visit to a few of the localities of the city to check the ground reality. The residents are struggling to find solutions to some common civic issues.
 
 
 
 Previous ward number | 56
 
 New ward number | 71
 
 Ex-councillor | Bhupinder Singh Bhinda, SAD
 
 Sarabha Nagar is considered one of the top localities of the city and its area has been covered under Smart City Mission. Though the civic authorities could not start even a single project, the ward in which this area falls, has already been declared as a model ward. The residents allotted full marks to water supply, roads and public parks. But the residents are concerned about sanitation, parking, security and encroachment issues.
 
 Rahul Verma, one of the residents of the area, complained that the streetlights in the area are poorly maintained. In an area like Sarabha Nagar where most of the industrialists reside, the poor maintenance of streetlights is troubling the residents.
 
 The residents also complained about stray dog menace. As many of the restaurants are in this area, people eat food while sitting in their cars. She said that stray dogs roam near these food joints, which has become a major issue for the residents of the area.
 
 Photo quotes
 
 Vikas Passi, businessman
 
 There are two major schools in the area and due to haphazard parking, it causes snarls and adds to the woes of the commuters. We have also been experiencing lack of security in the locality. Anybody can park his/her vehicle inside the colonies here. Incidents of chain snatching have increased too. The civic authorities did nothing to regulate parking to avoid such problems.
 
 Sanjay Goel, architect
 
 There is huge garbage dump on a road leading to the locality and surprisingly the MC office also falls on this road. Even then the residents are forced to smell the stink while crossing this place. Despite requests, the councillor could not solve this issue.
 
 Anju Tangri, dress designer
 
 Parking is a major issue in the Sarabha Nagar main market. People park their vehicles haphazardly and for the residents, it has become a tough task to manage the things. Sometimes, people even park their vehicles in front of their gates. The public parking lot is poorly managed by the contractor. The area councillor and civic body have failed to find a solution to this problem.
 
 Mohit Sharma, chartered accountant
 
 Despite being one of the posh localities of the city, the residents in the area are troubled with various issues. The most serious issue is lack of parking space. The people of the area park their vehicles on the internal roads. Now, those who come for shopping in the market area, also park their cars in the localities, which add to the woes. The authorities should seriously do something regarding the parking spaces.
 
 What the ex-councillor has to say?
 
 Ex-councillor Bhupinder Singh Bhinda, however, claimed that it was due to his efforts that Sarabha Nagar was included in the area-based development quotient of Smart City Mission. He said he has built the roads, took care of water supply, sewerage and other basic amenities of the residents of the area. He claimed the public parks in the locality are being beautified now.
 
 A tragedy waiting to happen: Sarabha Nagar main market
 
 Frequently visited by the people from almost every corner of the city, the Sarabha Nagar main market is perhaps waiting for some major incident to happen. There are many restaurants, shops and other commercial complexes in the market. However, not even a single eatery has procured the No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the fire department. The fire arrangements are almost negligible.
 
 The members of Sarabha Nagar main market traders association also admitted the fact and the recent the fire, which broke out at the hotel terrace on the third floor of the commercial complex in Mumbai, have left them worried.
 
 The chairman of the association   said there is a narrow lane at the backside of the market where some of the shopkeepers have kept their LPG cylinders and in case of any untoward incident, it will become a tough task for the fire brigade to enter this lane.
 
 He said they were ready to apply for the fire NOC and the fire brigade department should guide them properly for the same. Regarding the other issues of Sarabha Nagar market, he said the councillor of the area had promised to clear the underground mesh of hanging wires, which can spark any tragedy any day. He said that councillors did not fulfill even a single promise made to the traders in the market and whatever has been done in the market is due to their joint efforts.
 
 Apart from this, only one washroom is open for public usage in the market while the washroom on the other side is closed. There is no garbage dump in the market and the one available has been closed down by MC.
 
