SURAT: He was just 15 when   (name changed) was arrested for the first time by   police station officials two years ago for assaulting a teenager. But sending him to a juvenile home has been of little help in diverting his mind from the crime world.

 Raju, who was recently arrested by the crime branch for series of chain snatchings, has become an habitual offender and used to arrests. In the last two years, he has been caught several times for various crimes, including murder. In fact, when he was taken to the juvenile home after arrest, most of the minors accused inside the home recognized him. Most crime branch cops also know him well since they have arrested him several times.
 
 Raju, who is part of   gang of Limbayat, was arrested for alleged murder of a man in February 2016. He was part of a gang that killed a man merely because he did not give them way to watch the ‘Shivaji Jayanti’ procession on road.
 
 After being arrested then, he was sent to juvenile home in Surat, where he again issued threats to some government officials. Due to his violent behaviour with other minors in the facility, he was sent to the juvenile home in Mehsana. However, he escaped from there within few days and returned to city. He continued his criminal activities and tried to kill a man from a rival gang in 2017.
 
 “He started with assaulting people in rivalry with other gangs. Later, he got involved in loot and thefts for which he was arrested several times. After the murder and attempt to murder, he has become a hardcore criminal now,” a police officer, who arrested him many times in the past, said.
 
 “This teenager was making lot of money through crime and then got addicted to liquor, ganja and gambling,” the officer added.
 
 Head of psychology department,   in Athwalines, Rudresh Vyas said, “Teenagers who get involved in crime at a young age do it due to various reasons. Faulty learning or genetic reasons are the main causes. Socialization and psychological causes are also responsible. They can be helped through counselling and medication.”
 
 Raju’s father is a labourer.
 
 
