CHENNAI: In a move that could bring down the number of accidents on the Chennai Bypass, a proposal is on the table to set up a four-metre wide dedicated lane for two wheelers along the stretch.

 This would be the first such exclusive lane on a bypass stretch in the country, if it receives the Centre’s nod, an official from the   ( ) told TOI.
 
 “At present, the median is 5-metres wide. Plans are on to reduce the width to one metre and set up a dedicated twowheeler lane (two metres on both sides) close to the median,” he said.
 
 The 32-km stretch between   and   has witnessed several accidents in the last few years, many of which involved two-wheelers.
 
 More than 30 fatal accidents were reported here last year, shows data from the state transport department. Just four days ago, a 35-year-old woman from  , riding a two-wheeler, died when she wass hit by a speeding truck.
 
 ‘Urban sprawl has caused rise in traffic density’
 
 
 The project worth Rs 400 crore was completed in 2010. Back then, areas adjoining the highways were sparsely populated. However, urban sprawl has resulted in an increase in traffic density, say NHAI officials.
 
 
 As per data available, nearly 24,000 vehicles use the four-way lane on a daily basis. This includes heavy duty vehicles, buses and non-commercial vehicles.
 
 
 Service roads, which help two-wheelers merge into the main highway, are available only at three locations – Ambattur, Patravakkam and Vanagaram. There is no such provision at other locations, increasing the chances of accidents as highway traffic does not stop unless there is congestion.
 
 
 To eliminate this, NHAI authorities have proposed a dedicated lane for motorcycles.
 
 
 “The five-metre wide median (set up only on the outskirts) is not necessary now as adjoining localities have transitioned into residential hubs. One-metre wide concrete crash barriers, similar to the one constructed within the city, would suffice. So, two metres on both sides can be earmarked only for two-wheelers,” said the NHAI official.
 
 
 This requires support from other government agencies associated with regulating   traffic to ensure that heavy duty vehicles do not flout the rules by continuing to ply close to the median fearing run-off road crashes, he said.
 
 
 “If the idea of shortening the median doesn’t go well with higher-ups, the plan might be changed. The bypass might be extended by 1.5 metres on either side so that two-wheelers can have a dedicated lane along the edges of the road,” the official added.
 
