BENGALURU: When a will and the mental capacity of the individual who made it is questioned, the court has no option but to treat the petition as a regular suit where all the parties involved get an equal opportunity to present their case, the high court has said. 

 The court's observation came when it allowed an appeal from a Belagavi villager, who had challenged a lower court's summary dismissal of his objection to his father's will on grounds that it was obtained when he was not in a sound mental state and the process resorted to by his siblings to execute it was flawed.
 
  "Once the proceedings become contentious, it is not open for the trial court to proceed with the matter in a summary way and allow the parties to prove the will in common form. The section provides that the proceedings shall take as nearly as possible form of a regular suit," Justice   observed in his order while citing the provisions of section 295 of the Indian  , 1925. 
 
 Basavanni and his sister Shantawwa, residents of Yamakanamaradi in Hukkeri taluk of Belagavi district, had petitioned the district court to ratify the will which they claimed was executed by their father, late  , on June 20, 2001. Hanchinamani had given each of the two siblings half share of the house property and open space situated at Yamakanamaradi.
 
  In their petition, they had named one of their siblings, Laxman, as the sole defendant. Laxman contested the petition, saying all the legal heirs were not made parties and also their father, who was 86 years old at the time of death, was not in good mental state. He is said to have executed the will only 25 days prior to his death. 
 
  However, the district court ruled in favour of Basavanni and his sister and Laxman challenged the same through a miscellaneous first appeal ( ) before the Dharwad bench of the high court. 
 
 Noting that the petitioners had failed to specify the family or other relatives of their father and their houses in the petition filed before the district court, as required under section 278 of the Indian Succession Act, Justice Cunha remanded the matter back to the Belagavi district court.
 
  The trial court has been directed to consider the matter afresh in accordance with the Indian Succession Act and   probate and succession matters, by treating the same as a regular suit. 
 
 
