When my Editor summoned me for a team meeting in Kochi, that too on Valentine’s Day, I had no doubt about the mode of transport: could there be a better opportunity to check out the revamped   with its advanced passenger-friendly features’? Yes, it felt a tad weird to attempt this early morning trip from Thiruvananthapuram even as my friends were making V-Day plans but my boyfriend was understanding and wished me a ‘good journey’. Mom, however, had a look of surprise as the last time I got up so early was for my board exam.
I had booked a non-AC ticket but that remained in the waiting list forever, so I had to buy one for `80 and grabbed a window seat on a general bogie. Will someone come and claim this seat at some point, I wondered as the train started at the scheduled time of 5 am, from the   station platform at Thampanoor, beginning its long journey to Shoranur.
 
 The coaches in white and blue still smelled of new paint and the bucket seats in the chair car with foldable snack trays were impressive but I missed the ‘relaxation’ that one used to get by sitting on the seat with folded legs. Of course, the new seating arrangement proved a shield from the stares that are customary when a girl travels alone in a general compartment. 
 At this point, I decided to take a stroll inside the Venad Express, one of the oldest daily Inter-city trains in Kerala and one that connects the capital with the business hub, Kochi. The interiors had mosaic design and vinyl flooring while the AC coaches had roll-down curtains. The new rake boasted a second class (Non AC) chair car (18 coaches), a pantry car, AC chair car (3 coaches) and second class Divyang (disabled friendly coach). The washbasins were sleeker, permitting easy movement in the doorway area, and featured a concealed dustbin. 
 
 As the train reached Kollam, the empty seats were quickly filled up by employees and students. The reporter in me began to hound anyone who crossed my path for ‘feedback’ about the train. Said Jeeja, a treasury employee at Kottayam, “I used to commute in   but now I prefer the new Venad as it looks more beautiful and seats are also good.” Agreed Anil Prasad from Karamana who works in a Mavelikkara government school, “Ever since I got my job eight years ago, I have been a regular in Venad. The new seating is good as it gives a calm feeling.” 
  
  
 
 
 When the clock struck seven times, an asariri (announcement) came that train vendors will be serving breakfast including masala dosa, idli-vada and uppumavu. I found out that dosa was priced at `21 while idli or uppumavu along with a vada came for `30 but there did not seem too many takers for either. Soon, melodious Malayalam songs flowed from the speakers, making some of the passengers go into a reverie with eyes closed. 
 
  
  
 
 
 An elderly lady asked me about the next station. I would have been clueless normally but the newly installed LED display based on GPS data made me a wise one that morning. But not all were pleased that the notifications were only in English and Hindi and not in Malayalam. I overheard a group of boys wondering if the train was running late and I informed them that it was late at that point by exactly 25 minutes, a piece of information that did not go well with them. They became more impatient when the train stopped for a few minutes in stations.
 
 Another bunch of students from Kottayam preferred to stand even though there were a few vacant seats. The space near the door turned into a romantic corner and who could have found fault with them, especially on a day reserved for lovers.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 As I found out, the regulars on the train were more bothered about the train’s punctuality than its new add-ons. Sreejith Kumar, an IT employee at Kochi, said, “Though renovated, it has not been reaching Kochi on time. On many days, I reach the office only at 11 am and have to mark a half-day leave. But then, this is the only train that I can depend around this time. Some of us halted the train at Kottayam three weeks ago in protest and were fined heavily. If they want to make the train passenger-friendly, then please run it on time.” 
 Another passenger Arun S, clearly one who is big on nostalgia, complained how he missed the earlier seating arrangement of Venad which allowed for ‘comfortable chatting’. Most passengers were happy, however, about another kind of comfort; they seemed more or less satisfied with the bio-toilet fitted, modular lavatory with stainless steel panelling.
 Finally, as the train pulled up at   at 10.30, it was ‘only’ late by 15 minutes. After all, it is Indian Standard Time, isn’t it?
 
 
 
 
