KOCHI: Renowned ecologist and conservationist 
  has suggested that consuming palm sap, either fresh or fermented, could be a possible route of   infection.

 
 Stating that there has been no reoccurrence of Nipah involving bats and pigs across the world, Racey said that the annual outbreak of Nipah in   continues to puzzle virologists because of its differences from the disease broke out from  .
 
 Replying to email queries, Racey said, “Nipah virus was first isolated in 1998 in pigs and pig workers suffering from encephalitis in Malaysia, where 265 cases resulted in 105 deaths. Cessation of pig movements and culling over a million pigs brought the disease under control. The experience with Hendra virus (transmitted through horses) soon led to fruit bats being identified as the source of infection, with pigs eating fallen fruit contaminated by bats.”
 
 He said that since 2001, human cases have occurred almost annually in Bangladesh and occasionally in nearby India, with higher fatality rates than in Malaysia and with a different route of infection. This occurs mainly by drinking palm sap infected with the virus by Pteropus giganteus. (Indian flying fox). “Denying bats access to the pots which collect the sap has reduced the infection rate.”
 
 In Bangladesh, humans contracted the disease from consuming contaminated date palm sap and also from person-to-person transmission (nursing the sick or preparing bodies for burial). The reported death rate from the virus found in Bangladesh appears to be higher than that reported in Malaysia. In Bangladesh, bamboo skirts have been deployed to prevent bats from contaminating palm sap.
 
 He said that he had been monitoring the reports from  . “I am concerned, however, that attempts may be made to nurse patients at home which could lead to potentially fatal consequences.”
 
 Racey, who is the Regius Professor of Natural History (Emeritus), University of Aberdeen, UK, has been keeping up to date with bats and emergent disease issues in order to provide advice and counter disinformation on bats.
 
 He said that bats carry more than 200 different viruses but only a few have known to cause disease. “There is little evidence that bats are affected by these viruses. There are occasional records of mass die-offs in which viruses are suspected but it is difficult to prove,” Racey said.
 
