Kolkata: A woman was knocked down and two others were injured after a local train allegedly ran into a sit-in demonstration by DYFI supporters at Jadavpur station on Friday morning. The agitators later brought local train services to a halt for more than two hours and blocked the Jadavpur intersection, throwing peak office-hour commuter movement out of gear.

 Eastern Railway authorities have denied the charge.
 
 DYFI members and supporters of a few mass organisations were protesting the railway ministry’s decision to increase fares, discontinue some routes and against irregular train services. 
 
 Around 200 DYFI activists started the protest at Jadavpur station around 11 am. This continued for almost 30 minutes when they saw the approaching Budge Budge-Canning local. 
 
 “The train did not show any sign of slowing down. Assuming that the driver did not notice the demonstrators, we waived red cloth to draw his attention. While it initially slowed down, the train suddenly picked up pace,” alleged a DYFI member.
 
 Seeing the train gain momentum, the agitators started running frenziedly. Jharna Nandi (51) tried to jump to her left before the train hit her. She was rushed to hospital with multiple injuries on her head, leg and rib cage. “Her condition is serious. There is a head injury, as also injuries on her legs,” said Sayandip Mitra, DYFI’s Bengal president.
 
 CPM leader Satarup Ghosh said it could have been fatal as Nandi managed to fall on the ground. “We have seen agitations on rail tracks, but never something like this,” he said.
 
 Jaydip Mitra, CEO of KPC Medical College & Hospital, said: “Jharna Nandi is in ICU and her condition continues to be critical. She has rib fractures and other multiple injuries.”
 
 Eastern Railway denied allegations that the train didn’t stop. “The train had stopped seeing the agitators and resumed its run finding the tracks clear. It seems the woman somehow came on the tracks and was hit unfortunately,” said R N Mahapatra, the Eastern Railway spokesperson.
 
 DYFI lodged a complaint with the GRP against the train driver. Later in the day, obstructions were witn-essed at Dhakuria, Sonarpur, Ballygunge and Jadavpur stations, delaying 22 trains .
 
 
