COIMBATORE: The much-talked about paid   will become a reality this year as the Coimbatore Corporation has called for tenders for the system to be introduced at 28 locations in the city. The commuters will be asked to pay an amount per hour for parking at these locations. 

 “To introduce a systematic parking system under the smart city project, we plan to set up multi-level car parking systems. Tenders for the project have been floated. But unless we charge street parking, people will not use the multi-level car parking systems,” said a senior corporation official. 
 
 Nearly eight international companies from France, the US and the middle-east have applied for the contract. “We have asked them to come up with solutions on how they plan to introduce it to regular commuters and one-time commuters,” said the official.
 
 According to   of the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy ( ), people who park on roads use a prime property. “City streets are limited and there are several uses for the streets. Currently, they are used only for parking. In foreign countries, parking on the streets is so expensive that people fear to take out cars. So, we shortlisted 28 locations based on a study and decided to introduce the   there,” she said. Explaining the system further, she said that the users can download the application. Once they reach the street, they will find  . “This way, time and petrol will also get saved. One needn’t search for a parking slot,” she said.
 
 The regular users can pay using online banking system. One-time users can use tokens or coupons that will be issued by kiosks. “The solution for one-time users will be provided by the contractor. The revenue generated from the parking will be shared among the corporation and a contractor through a common bank account. The corporation will use the money to develop the streets,” said an urban expert.
 
 A command and control system will be set up exclusively for the paid parking system by the service provider and the entire service will be IT based.
 
 K Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said the corporation should come up with norms to enforce availability of parking spaces in all commercial complexes, malls and shops. Public should not be charged unnecessarily for the corporation’s inefficiency. “All the building owners should be warned and forced to provide parking spaces for people. Instead of introducing a paid parking system, major roads should be made no parking zones and indirectly the commercial establishment owners should be forced to provide parking spaces if public were to reach their shops,” he said. 
 
 The onus should not be on the consumer but on the traffic police, corporation and the commercial complex owners to provide parking spaces as they only give ‘No objection certificates’ to these shops and complexes. 
 
 
