MADURAI: The Union government on Wednesday told the Madras high   Madurai bench that it had constituted a five-member committee to look into the feasibility of conducting further excavations at Aadhichanallur in Tuticorin district. It further said that the committee would file its report in a month. 

 The government’s response came following the court’s direction to the director general of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to take a decision about holding further excavation at Aadhichanallur and inform the court about it. The court had warned that it would be constrained to summon the director general if this did not happen. 
 
 The division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and R Tharani was hearing writ petitions. ASI regional director (south), Bangalore, Dr Sathyabhama Badrinath would lead the committee and ASI Chennai circle superintending archaeologist A M V Subramaniam, excavation branch (Bangalore) superintending archaeologist P S Sriraman, ASI retired joint director general Dr K P Poonacha and   head P D Balaji would act as members, he said. 
 
 Appreciating the move, the bench directed the Union government to decide about engaging professor P Raghavan of Australian National University (Canberra), to bring out the main report about the Aadhichanallur excavation site.
 
  It was former superintending archaeologist of Chennai circle, T  , who requested to engage Raghavan in the task saying that he had studied physical anthropological aspects of skeletal remains. Three volumes on the subject were completed as bio archaeological series with his help and submitted to director general of archaeology. 
 
 The court also directed the state government to release funds in a week for sending the artefacts found at Aadhichanallur for carbon dating test, which will help to know the age of our Tamil history. Earlier, additional advocate general   informed the court that Satyamurthy had sent a proposal to the government demanding Rs 1 lakh which had been sent to the financial secretary. TNN
 
 
