KOCHI: Businessman  , who approached a court seeking legal sanction for the right to have a dignified death in 1998, said that the living will created by incorporating the liberty to reject medicines and opt for   if affected by accident or  , will now have legal sanctity. He was reacting the   judgment that allowed passive euthanasia.

 “I finally have the liberty to reject medicines and freedom to decide about my life. Though Ihad written a living will, there was so far questions about its legal sanctity. I was always concerned that though I had expressed my desire, the doctors would have rejected it as it didn’t have legal sanctity,” said Chittilappilly.
 
 Chittilappilly, founder chairman and managing director of   Ltd, had filed a petition in the sub-court of Ernakulam in1998 pleading that he should not be administered with artificial means to sustain his life if afflicted by a terminal disease after the age of 70. The petition was rejected on the grounds that it is illegal.
 
 “The aging population in our state is growing and with advancements in medical technology, the hospitals and family members try to prolong life without really taking into consideration the quality of life,” said the man, who started the debate on euthanasia 20 years ago. He reiterated his demand again after a 78-year-old co-petitioner and acquaintance Thomas from Thirssur committed suicide “as revenge” after the lower court rejected his euthanasia plea.
 
 Just like in his petition in the court, even in his living will Chittilappilly reiterated, “If, at or after the age of 70, I contract any terminal disease or meet with an accident which causes fatal injuries or my health deteriorates to such an extent that life cannot be prolonged without constant medication or keeping me in ventilation or applying artificial means, then I may be allowed to die a natural death under ordinary nursing care untrammelled by tubes or wires, constant medication, ventilation or other artificial means”.
 
 “My argument is what is the use of prolonging life, if there is no quality of life? Some hospitals unnecessarily prolong life through nasal feeding and by putting a person on ventilator,” he said.
 
 Chittilappilly added that to ensure that there is no misuse of the provision, there should be an emphasis on writing a living well when a person is in good mental and physical health.
 
 
