NEW DELHI: In the wake of Delhi chief minister   criticising  's (DMRC) move to increase parking charges from May 1, DMRC has written to the Delhi government, justifying the decision. 

 DMRC has said that the current parking charges are lower than the charges being levied by the civic agencies and as a result, many people who don't travel by the metro are using its parking lots.
 
 DMRC had on Wednesday announced that it is going to revise parking charges, which were last increased in 2013. The parking charges for cars and two-wheelers have been hiked by 50% across most slabs.
 
 The move was criticised first by Delhi's urban development minister,  , and then the chief minister. "First fare hike and now parking charges hike. These steps will completely kill   n increase congestion n pollution on roads. Sad (sic)," Kejriwal had tweeted. "Metro increased parking charges by 50%. Earlier increased fares by 100%. God knows who is advising Delhi Metro," Jain had tweeted.
 
 The   had also vehemently protested Delhi Metro's fare hike, which came into effect in two phases in May and October last year.
 
 In what appears to be a bid to clarify its position on the issue, DMRC has written a letter to the Delhi government's transport department, justifying the move. In the letter addressed to the commissioner (transport), DMRC has said that the charges for using its parking lots have not been increased since March 1, 2013.
 
 "The revision in parking charges has been necessitated because of general inflation and large difference in parking charges levied by civic agencies of Delhi," the letter states. DMRC has also said that since DMRC parking charges at present are comparatively cheaper, non-metro users park their vehicles in DMRC parking lots. "As a result of this, the genuine metro commuters find it difficult to find space for parking in DMRC parking lots," the letter said.
 
 DMRC has said that while as per the revised parking rates, it will charge Rs 30 for parking four-wheelers for up to six hours, other civic agencies are charging Rs 50 for the same duration. Similarly, while it will charge Rs 50 for parking up to 12 hours, the charges are Rs 100 for the same duration in other parking lots.
 
 "Even after revision, DMRC parking charges will be on the lower side as compared to the charges being levied by civic agencies such as municipal corporations of north,  ," the letter said.
 
 
