NAGPUR: Jawaharlal Nehru Aluminium Research Development and Design Centre ( ) has over shot its target of generating internal revenue in the last financial year. It managed to earn Rs3.65 crore as against the expected target of Rs3.5 crore in 2017-18.

 65% of the earnings came from projects and testing and the remaining came from training and consultancy.
 
 JNARDDC director Anupam Agnihotri, while listing the achievements of the centre on its 29th foundation day, said 2017-18 was a very successful year. Last year, the centre completed eleven projects, applied for eight patents, two copyrights and took up 18 projects both from industry and the government.
 
 The centre has been nominated as the ‘sector expert’ by the Bureau of Energy Efficiency, ministry of power, for the national mission on enhanced energy efficiency. The centre was also involved in two national projects, development of super thermal aluminium alloy for overhead conductor and development of aluminium alloy extrudates. The process is on commercialization of both these technologies.
 
 The director said that the Central Pollution Control Board has recognized the technology of ‘spent pot lining and dross’ developed by JNARDDC so appropriate that it has put it up on its website and suggested that all users should adopt the technology.
 
 The centre also plans to set up an extrusion plant of 1,400 tonnes, the only national facility in the country for conducting research and development in aluminium alloy extrusion.
 
 VV  , former JNARDDC director, appreciated the efforts of the centre over the last 15 years. He said that so many projects and patents have been developed by merely 18 scientists of the centre.
 
 In 2002, the aggregate aluminium production was barely touching 1 million tonnes and at that time, a very optimistic projection was that the installed capacity would grow to about 2 million tonnes by 2020. But in reality, it has already exceeded 4 million tonnes, he said.
 
 T R Ramachnadran, the founder director, called upon the centre to work towards increasing the per capita consumption of aluminium.
 
 During his address,   vice-chancellor SP Kane said the health of any institution should improve with time and it must get younger with age. He appreciated the milestones in 29 years of JNARDDC.
 
 VK Jha, MP Nimje, Mohammad Nazar, PG Bhukte, RN Chauhan, Upendra Singh, RJ Sharma, and R Srinivasan were honoured for their achievements throughout the year like paper publishing in journals, patents etc.
 
 
