HYDERABAD: The performance of class 8 students from the city in the National Achievement Survey, 2017 paints a sorry picture of education in   with average performance less than 40% in maths, science and social science.

 The survey was conducted by the National Council of Educational Research and Training ( ) under the aegis of ministry of human resource development in November last year.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 According to the recently released provisional report of the survey, performance of 1,172 students from 51 government and government-aided schools were assessed. The report revealed that the average performance of students in mathematics was 33.5%. Similarly, the average performance in science was 35.7% and in social science was 34.9%.
 
 Students performed comparatively well in language with an average performance of 47.7%.
 
 While teachers were blamed for the poor performance, teachers attribute the same to lack of exposure.
 
 “Majority students in government and governmentaided schools come from poor financial backgrounds. While teachers try their level best to impart quality education, students lack exposure,” said  , general secretary of  .
 
 The learning outcome of students revealed that in mathematics, students could not draw and interpret bar charts, pie charts and add/subtract algebraic expressions. In science, students could not apply scientific concepts in day-today life, conduct investigation to seek answers to queries and differentiate materials, organism and processes.
 
 In social science, students were unable to locate important historical sites, places on a map of India, describe the functioning of rural and urban local government bodies and analyses issues related to caste, women, social reforms, the laws and policies of colonial administration towards these issues.
 
 The trend of poor performance was not just in Hyderabad but also in other districts of Telangana. The average performance of class 8 students in other districts including Nizamabad, Warangal, Ranga Reddy to name a few was less than 40%.
 
 In few districts such as Adilabad, the average performance of students in mathematics and science was even worse at 28.6% and 28.7% respectively.
 
  
  
 
