BHOPAL: The state is staring at a crisis for the 2018-19 academic session as over 1,008 unaided private schools in   have decided not to admit students under the Right to Education Act quota until the government clears their dues worth crores of rupees for past one year.

 The Right to Education Act, 2009 ensures reservation of 25% seats in entry-level classes in all primary schools for children belonging to socially and economically disadvantaged category. The underprivileged children get free education till they reach Class VIII and the government reimburses fees to private schools for teaching them.
 
 The reimbursement is fixed by calculating average of money spent per child in a government school or the fee per child taken by a school, whichever is less.
 
 “We haven’t received reimbursement for past one year. Despite our repeated pleas, the state government failed to pay fee of underprivileged children,” said  , secretary,   Private School Owners Association Bhopal.
 
 The association is mulling not to register their schools for next round of   admissions for new academic session.
 
 “We have decided not to register our schools for RTE admissions and no one can force us to do so. We will also cancel admission of already existing students after February in case the government fails to pay dues,” Singh added.
 
 KPS  , nodal officer, RTE Madhya Pradesh, said, “We have urged the schools not to take this step. The government has approved the grants but due to shift to online system, it will take some more time.”
 
 The private schools also decided to start a massive agitation in mid February against pending payments.
 
 Many school associations have come together across the state, demanding they be reimbursed all pending dues against free admissions given for RTE's 25% quota else no admissions will be given.
 
 “The online system has been started only after receiving complaints of siphoning off of grants. We won’t let the students suffer as Aadhaar card has been made mandatory document to be submitted by the schools to receive fee. By this, we are trying to bring transparency in the system,” Tomar told TOI.
 
 The resolve among schools to take the government head-on for pending dues is strong, members of   said.
 
 “Now it is a do or die situation. We have all decided to boycott the admission process.   has miserably failed to follow its own rules,” members added.
 
 
