BENGALURU: Online courses in   and cryptocurrency technology are rising in popularity among working professionals as the technology begins to find applications across a variety of fields.

 Online-learning platforms in India have launched courses on blockchain. Over 350 people have taken the five month-old course in  , some 500 on Intellipaat, and 100 on Simplil earn in a month. Acad Gild launched its course last week, and says it is getting good interest.
 
 Blockchain is the technology behind cryptocurrencies, but it is now seen to have applications across finance, smart contracts, managing digital identities. Blockchain maintains a secure digital ledger in blocks. Once recorded, the data in any given block cannot be altered without the alteration of all subsequent blocks, which makes the misuse of data almost impossible.
 
 
 
 
 This enables parties in a contract to have greater confidence, and where enforcement of contracts has required intermediaries, blockchain obviates the need for them, making processes much more fast and efficient.
 
 According to recruitment platform Indeed, the number of cryptocurrency and blockchain jobs in the six months to November 2017 rose by 290%. Blockchain developer, blockchain consultant, system architect were the top roles that were required.
 
 Sashi Kumar, MD of Indeed India, said the market globally for blockchain-related products and services is expected to reach $7.7 billion in 2022, which is indicative of more jobs being created in the sector in the future. This is driving the demand for blockchain courses.
 
 Anand Narayanan, chief product officer at  , expects mass industry demand to come in the next six months. He said those taking the three-week course are primarily professionals in the financial sector and in technical roles. Sudhanshu Dash, 35, a treasury manager in a beverage company, is one of those who have taken the course on Simplilearn. “In the company, we have been talking about the use of cryptocurrency and cryptocurrency wallet. We have been doing several months of research to understand more. I hope this course will help me implement certain projects in the company in a year or two,” said Dash.
 
 Dash, who has previously learnt data analytics online, said many companies are planning or exploring uses of blockchain and cryptocurrencies. “It is definitely a game changer for the finance industry,” he said.
 
 
  
  
 
 Edureka was the first platform to come up with the course in August, but it is only over the past few weeks that interest grew and has become one of the most popular courses on its platform, alongside subjects like AI (artificial intelligence) and big data.
 
 “Finance minister Arun Jaitley’s statement on cryptocurrency has generated a lot more interest and people want to know more about it. Most of our users have 2 to 15 years of experience and mainly come from the IT industry,” said Vineet Chaturvedi, co-founder of Edureka. The company’s   explaining the technology generates two lakh views every month.
 
 Diwakar Chittora, founder of Intellipaat, said that for a learner with experience in programming roles, the course could help get job profiles like blockchain developer and blockchain analyst.
 
