TIRUPUR: If everything goes well, the city would in the near future generate electricity from faecal sludge. According to sources,   and   has approached the   to set up a power plant to generate electricity out of septage management.

 Having entered an oral agreement with the corporation, the foundation is now surveying households to calculate the raw materials (faecal sludge) they could get. They are expected to prepare a detailed project report soon and submit it before the corporation.
 
 Representatives of Bill and Melinda   have reportedly told corporation officials that Tirpur was the first city in the state to be approached by them for setting up such a facility.
 
 “The representatives of Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation met us three months ago and sought our oral agreement for conducting a survey to find out the feasibility of the project. Only after completing the survey, they can figure out the potential and decide on the size of the plant,” a senior corporation official told TOI.
 
 Tirupur Corporation is one among the growing urban settlements in the state, with a population of 10 lakh and a floating population of 2 lakh, thanks to its knitwear industry. However of the 60 wards, only 19 have underground drainage (UGD) facility. It simply means that more than 90,000 households are yet to get the UGD facility yet. In areas covered under the UGD facility, human faecal sludge is directly sent to the   and treated at the sewage treatment plant. In other areas, households have to save it in septic tanks and dispose it of on their own.
 
 “We have proposed to expand the UGD facility to cover another 75,000 households at a cost of Rs 525 crore. But it will be likely to be completed only in 2021 that too if the works commence at the earliest this year. Till then, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation could collect faecal sludge from the households,” the corporation official said.
 
 Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has inked a memorandum of understanding with the state government to set up such plants to improve the sanitation system. “After it submits a detailed project report, we will take a final call with the government’s consent,” the official said.
 
 
