Ludhiana: As the dates for Ludhiana MC elections would be announced soon, poll fever seems to be catching up with the city businessmen as well.

 Several industrialists are contemplating entering the election arena and contest the polls themselves or seeking tickets from parties for their kin in case their ward falls under the reserved category.
 
 Meanwhile some business associations have now decided that they will form a joint front under which they will shortlist all the candidates contesting MC elections and take collective decision to which candidates to vote for regardless of their parties.
 
 Inderjit Singh Navyug, president, United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA), said, “In a city which high number of businessmen, political parties should try and give preference to industrialists while allotting tickets for MC elections. Not only do industrialists have better knowledge and solutions about the problems of people, but they can also prove to be good public representatives.”
 
 Navyug said, “Our association is known for being neutral towards all political parties. Considering the present scenario, we have decided that we along with like-minded associations will form a joint front and after the political parties distribute the tickets, all the associations will take collective decision on which candidates to vote for in every ward.”
 
 Narinder Bhamra, president, Fastener Manufacturers Association of India (FMAI), said, “Several of our businessmen friends have already declared their candidature for MC elections and more will soon follow the suit. As of now we have five such associations with hundreds of members who have already joined hands in this mission and we are confident that all the business associations will come together in this common cause.”
 
 Business fraternity has already made its presence felt in the MC. Some of the prominent councilors who come from business background include Kamaljit Singh Karwal, Bhupinder Singh Binda, Navkar Kala, Parminder Singh Soma, Jagbir Singh Sokhi and Hemraj Aggarwal.
 
 Pardeep Wadhawan, senior vice president of UCPMA, said, “We are not against any political party or individual but the decision to form this front has been taken only to ensure the betterment of business fraternity and also to take collective decisions in future on the issues related to industry.”
 
 “Majority of our factories are based in mixed land use areas and till now our issues like CLU, NOCs for various works, repair of infrastructure have remained unresolved. No one will understand our pain better, until we elect someone from among us in the MC house. Moreover, businessmen are proven administrators and once elected they can bring a lot of change in the political system and what can be better platform than this,” says Atul Saggar, general secretary, Apparel Manufacturers Association, Ludhiana.
 
 
