Kankumbi: Goa’s legislators have raised suspicions of Karnataka’s sinister plans to impart finishing touches to the Kalsa tributary diversion project through the underground canal into the nearby Malaprabha basin.

 With 70% of the canal construction work at Kankumbi, near Goa’s border, being completed and the tributary still blocked despite claims of removal of mud, a team of MLAs and legislators, led by Speaker Pramod Sawant, raised the fears that conditions are favourable for diversion of the important tributary of Mhadei river.
 
 The legislators team that trudged some distance in the heavily excavated area in the hot sun inspected the site of the diversion canal on Sunday and the spot where the Kalsa nullah has been blocked. They expressed indignation about the likely impact of the work on Goa’s ecology, its flora and fauna and several drinking water schemes.
 
 “The Kalsa tributary is in bad shape and its original course has been destroyed. The flow from Parvad tributary has also reduced. We will submit a report of our observations to the chief minister and advocate general,” Sawant said while speaking to the reporters at the site.
 
 Deputy speaker Michael Lobo alleged that Karnataka’s resumption of work was a total violation while the matter was pending before the ‘national green tribunal. “We are trying to form a committee of environmentalists and engineers to assess whether water can flow into Mhadei,” Lobo said.
 
 Further, he alleged that Karnataka has tried to change the ground situation by digging the canal deep and creating conditions for the back flow of the water towards Malaprabha.
 
 The legislators also, endorsing this view, alleged that the water was finding a huge obstruction in the bund and the level of the water could not flow to a higher level, while the level towards Karnataka was lower.
 
 A reputed environmentalist explained to the visiting team how Karnataka had destroyed the Kalsa tributary and altered its flow. Water is seen stagnating in the channel. 
 
 Alleging that all these conditions were plans to divert Kalsa water, the legislators said that the work should be stopped and the site restored to allow normal flow.
 
 “If the tribunal judges come and inspect the site, they will be shocked at what Karnataka has done to divert the water,” Lobo said.
 
 Sawant, Lobo, BJP’s Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha and independent MLA Prasad Gaonkar as well as former legislators Simon D’Souza, Shambhu Bhau Bandekar, Vinaykumar Usgaonkar, Babuso Gaonkar, Dharma Chodankar, Nirmala Sawant, Mohan Amshekar, Narahari Haldankar and Vishwas Satarkar were part of the team that visited the site to take stock of Karnataka’s work. No Congress, MGP and Goa Forward MLAs joined the team.
 
 The legislators, who were accompanied by police teams from both states, also visited the dried up Barazan and Surla waterfalls and the damaged Mauli temple. A former sarpanch of Kankumbi was hushed up by some Karnataka police after he expressed opposition to the project while replying to media queries.
 
 
