Chandigarh: Punjab Lalit Kala Akademi, on Tuesday, announced the names of the award winners for the Annual Art Exhibition 2018.

 The two-person jury comprising internationally acclaimed artists Mithu Sen and Sonia Khurana from Delhi, recommended the names for   for the Annual Art Exhibition 2018, being organised by Punjab Lalit Kala Akademi.
 
 As many as 420 artworks have been received for the exhibition, out of which 231 artworks were received in the professional category. Out of these, 43 were selected for the exhibition including the three which won awards of Rs 50,000 each.
 
 Similarly, as many as 189 artworks, were received for the student category, out of which 43 works are selected for exhibition including five winning awards of Rs 25,000 each.
 
 Artists have been requested to submit their entries in the disciplines of painting, sculpture, graphics and print making, photography, drawing, mixed-media, installation, video installations and other related disciplines. Along with the selected artworks, Akademi has also invited senior and established artists to send their artworks so that the exhibition becomes truly representative of the art created in the region in the recent years. The exhibition of these artworks is going to be organised in the last week of April 2018 at the galleries of Punjab Lalit Kala Akademi, Sector 16B, Chandigarh.
 
 In the professional category, the award winners are Amarbir Singh from Mohali, for the sculpture titled ‘Birth of an Artist 5 and 6’, Jaspreet Singh from Akkanwali, for his painting titled, ‘Life of My Village’ and Manjot Kaur from Kharar, for her work titled ‘Growing Smaller’.
 
 The jury also recommended five artists for the awards of Rs 25,000 each in student category. They were Gurpreet Singh from Khanna, for his work titled ‘Mere Supniyan vich mera ghar’, Neha Gupta from Baltana, Zirakpur, for the painting ‘Isolation’, Gurjeet Singh from Algon Kothi, Tarn Taran, for the sculpture titled ‘Lady with pink lips’, Gurpreet Singh from Badhni Kalan, Moga, for the sculpture titled ‘Blood Diamond’ and Gurneet Kaur from Kharar, for the painting titled ‘Games of Life’.
 
 
