 Chair on International Water Cooperation,  , wasn’t surprised when the Mahanadi crisis blew up in 2016. In an email interview to Amava Bhattacharya, the Sweden-based scholar from Puri, who has studied conflicts around natural resources his whole life, explains the river dispute, how it came about and where it is headed

 Q. How did the   originate? 
 
 The Mahanadi, which is the most important river for  , is an interstate river. The total catchment area of the Mahanadi basin is 141,600 square kilometers, of which 54% is in  , 46% in Odisha. In the monsoon, the Mahanadi’s discharge is almost the same as that of the Ganges. In the dry season, however, the river becomes a narrow channel. Before the construction of the Hirakud Dam in 1953, the river used to be called the ‘sorrow of Odisha’ for causing massive floods.
 
 The average inflow of the Mahanadi into the Hirakud Dam is 40,773 MCM (million cubic metre). Of this, 35,308 MCM comes from Chhattisgarh, which claims that it is currently using only 9,000 MCM of that water and that for its own economic and industrial needs, it has the right to use more water from the Mahanadi basin. On the other hand, Odisha argues that Chhattisgarh has already constructed three barrages unilaterally, which have affected the water flow to the Hirakud Dam in the dry season.
 
 Odisha says it has the primary claim over the Mahanadi because of historical use and argues that Chhattisgarh’s planned diversion upstream will cause significant harm to its agriculture and economy. Chhattisgarh claims that its barrages upstream will enable it to equitably use the river water, which it has not been able to do yet. Therein lies the seed of the dispute.
 
 Q. Both states have been accused of setting up coal-fired plants along the banks of the river. Have both Odisha and Chhattisgarh contributed to the Mahanadi’s decreasing water levels? 
 
 Yes, both Chhattisgarh and Odisha are responsible for degrading the water quality of the Mahanadi. Water diversion for coal-fired power plants is not as water consumptive as diversion for irrigation but thermal power plants and mining pollute the river. Water pollution is becoming the major issue in interstate river disputes in India in general and in the Mahanadi in particular. However, if the governments are willing and prepared to use their resources, it is easy to address water quality issues.
 
 Q. The Chhattisgarh government has accused Odisha of letting ‘too much’ of the Mahanadi’s waters flow into the Bay of Bengal and not harnessing it well enough. 
 
 The argument that river water flowing into the sea is wasted is a very primitive idea. A river system needs to discharge a certain amount of water into the sea to maintain the ecology of the river and the delta. The regular water flow to the sea stops the intrusion of salt water into the river system and supports fishing communities. So, this argument of Chhattisgarh is not a good one.
 
 Q. The Centre, after some reluctance, has agreed to set up a tribunal to resolve the conflict. But as we have seen with the Cauvery verdict, the tribunal’s resolution can be challenged. 
 
 The tribunal is a political victory for Odisha but it will not help the state stop Chhattisgarh from using the water of the Mahanadi upstream. Chhattisgarh enjoys some legal advantages vis-à-vis Odisha and that has been made very clear in the recent Cauvery verdict of the Supreme Court. The tribunal will take a long time to give a verdict and that, too, may not be the final one.
 
 Odisha has been very late in bringing up the water-sharing issue. Chhattisgarh has already built several of its projects. The best possible option for Odisha is to find a solution to the Mahanadi water-sharing issue politically, not legally. The political leaders of both states should try to find a solution through negotiation as soon as possible. Both states can form a river basin authority and entrust water and development experts to manage the river. Keeping the dispute alive is politically beneficial but leaders have to sacrifice their short-term gain for the larger interests of Odisha.
 
 Q. How do you see the Mahanadi conflict panning out? 
 
 By politicizing the conflict, leaders have missed an opportunity to find an amicable and long-term solution to water-sharing of this very important shared river. The legal route will not find an early end to the conflict. Moreover, political parties in both states will find it convenient to use the river water for political mobilization. A sustainable solution is only possible when the leaders of both states can come together and negotiate to protect and preserve the future interests of their states.
 
 Odisha will find it hard to legally challenge Chhattisgarh’s ongoing projects on the Mahanadi as there is no existing legal agreement between the two states, which gives primacy to Odisha over the use of the Mahanadi. As we have seen in the recent Cauvery verdict and as suggested by the UN Convention on the Law of the Non-Navigational Uses of International Watercourses, equitable use of shared water will be prioritized over historical rights on a river. Chhattisgarh argues that its projects are primarily meant to provide water for non-consumptive industrial use only. In general, industrial and municipal uses of water are preferred over highly consumptive agricultural use in settling water-sharing disputes.
 
 Q. Water activists say the Mahanadi is a ‘water-stressed’ river and that the Hirakud Dam is the root of the conflict. Do you think the Nehruvian model of development, where dams were the temples of modernity, was flawed? 
 
 Globally, large dam projects are not in fashion anymore. In India, movements against big dams have become very common in the last three decades and it is not easy for government to build these mega projects and justify the displacement of large numbers of people in the name of larger national interest. The Hirakud Dam has been a mixed success. While it has reduced the number and severity of floods in Odisha, and is a major source of water for irrigation and hydropower, many displaced people were not compensated. It has caused ecological problems in the Mahanadi delta. Many countries have started dismantling their dams for improved fishing, navigation, tourism and ecological protection. I think, it will take some time for India in general and Odisha in particular to adopt that approach. However, it is important that governments discard mega-dam dreams and give priority to sustainable water management, hydropower generation and irrigation with the help of small dams.
 
 Q. Upper riparian states have a natural advantage as far as river water is concerned. Can the Centre, through institutes such as the Central Water Commission, temper this advantage and lessen disputes? 
 
 Upper riparian states usually have a natural advantage, but, historically, lower riparian states have been the primary users of the interstate rivers in India. Due to increasing demand and decreasing supply of water, upper riparian states have started building dams and barrages in recent years. The government’s renewed emphasis on river-linking projects has further expedited this process. Emergence of these new water-user states has created several river disputes in India. Odisha being a lower riparian state is now competing with upper riparian states such as Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh to protect its share of the water.
 
 Water-sharing is an extremely politically volatile issue. Moreover, India does not have a national water law and it won’t be easy to make one either. In this context, the Central Water Commission has very little power unless riparian states come to an agreement over water-sharing of their river. As in the case of the Cauvery, even the Supreme Court suffers from severe limitations in implementing its verdict on interstate water-sharing.
 
 Q. Odisha has been criticized for diverting the Mahanadi’s water from farmers to industries. Is there any way of determining who will have first claim on our rivers? 
 
 Allocation of the water of a river to different stakeholders is a political decision. Legally, industrial and navigational uses of the river water are prioritized because these do not usually take away water from the river system and are economically more beneficial than highly consumptive agricultural use. But for political leaders, achieving food security is important and farmers are the major vote bank. Unfortunately, farmers in Odisha are not as well-organized as their counterparts in Punjab, Tamil Nadu or Maharashtra. This has made successive Odisha governments compromise the interests of the farmers and prioritize industrial use. In a democracy, stakeholders, particularly farmers and fisherfolk, have to be well-organized to protect their interests.
 
 Q. Do you think the Mahanadi dispute, presented as a row between a BJP-ruled state and a non-BJP ruled one, has taken away attention from the plight of farmers in both states? 
 
 Like any other issue, we like to see the water-sharing row in black and white. Branding the dispute as   versus   makes for a good story. Political parties promote this as it serves their interests. Governments will come and go. It is important that the issue be seen in the light of water and not politics. Prolonging the dispute is good for politicians but bad for the people and the environment.
 
 
