BENGALURU : Minister  , who was elected five times previously from T Narasipura assembly constituency in Mysuru district, may have ruffled some feathers in the party with his decision to contest from C V Raman Nagar, a constituency considered ‘safe’ for the  , in the forthcoming elections. However, he is not the first top leader to have sought a ‘safe’ seat in Bengaluru.

 There has been precedence, and the list includes stalwarts such as former chief ministers Ramakrishna Hegde, S M Krishna, R Gundu Rao and D V  . All four won their first electoral contests from Bengaluru.
 
 “The trend was prevalent in the 1980s,” said veteran journalist K Satyanarayana, who has been following politics since early 1960s. “Mahadevappa’s case seems to be the first in the run-up to these assembly polls. There is likely to be more such moves once election dates are announced and the parties start revealing their candidates.”
 
 Hegde, whose political career began in Uttara Kannada in 1954, became chief minister in 1983. Since he wasn’t a member of the state legislature, his Janata Party colleague, P G R Sindhia, vacated the Kanakapura seat and Hegde was elected to the assembly from there. But when fresh elections were announced only two years later in 1985, Hegde switched to   assembly seat in south Bengaluru.
 
 S M Krishna, whose home constituency was Maddur in Mandya district, switched to Chamarajpet in the 2004 elections and won by a thin margin.
 
 “These two chief ministers were seen as leaders with a vision for urban development and they have been credited for the development of Bengaluru,” said Sandeep Shastri, a psephology and political analyst. “This is probably why they chose to contest from a seat in the city,” Shastri said.
 
 Even Gundu Rao, who is credited with the construction of the Majestic bus stand which was touted to be world class then, chose to stand for parliamentary polls in 1989 from Bengaluru South. He had banked on his urban appeal and he won with a thumping majority.
 
 Caste certainly is a major factor that drew these stalwarts to Bengaluru, notwithstanding the city’s claim to hi-tech modernity. The Vokkaliga community is estimated to account for over 20% of the close to 89-lakh strong electorate in   district. The community votes are decisive in at least 15 of 28 assembly constituencies in the city.
 
 Though the Brahmin community comprises only 7% of the city’s voters, it plays a decisive role in constituencies like Basavanagudi, Malleswaram, and Chamarajpet. Krishna is a Vokkaliga, while Hegde and Gundu Rao were from the Brahmin community. Minorities and Dalits, who together account for over 30% of the electorate, is another sizeable section that leaders eye.
 
 “Caste is a factor, but I would not say it is the factor,” said  , former mayor. “The other factors are the high number of educated voters and the media exposure a Bengaluru contest guarantees.”
 
 Veteran campaign managers also speak of logistics: it is easy for a high-profile leader to campaign in short bursts and devote the rest of the time to campaigning for their candidates in other parts of the state.
 
 Former chief minister Sadananda Gowda candidly admitted that caste helps candidates. Hailing from the Vokkaliga community, Gowda migrated from the Chikkamagaluru parliamentary seat to Bengaluru North in 2014 general election. The second largest Lok Sabha seat with over 28 lakh voters, Vokkaligas account for 30 % of the electorate in Bengaluru North.
 
 “While other voters supported me, Vokkaliga votes helped me win,” Gowda said. “Caste equations are very crucial these days in elections.” Gowda succeeded D B Chandre Gowda, another former minister, who moved to Bengaluru from Shivamogga district in search of safer pastures.
 
 
 
