JAIPUR: Chief minister   tried to address a major complaint by loyalists of former vice-president and   in the Budget by announcing a scheme in his name.

 Shekhawat loyalists especially the   was upset with Raje over the chief minister’s alleged ‘antipathy’ towards the BJP veteran and his family.
 
 Raje has also tried to pacify the RSS cadres who had reportedly cold shouldered party candidates in the three bypolls held recently by announcing a scheme in the name of RSS veteran Sunder Singh Bhandari as well. It is seen as an olive branch to these core BJP supporters who had turned against Raje.
 
 Bhairon Singh is credited with the launching of the Antyodaya Anna Yogana during his tenure as a chief minister of Rajasthan. Now, the government has launched a self-employment scheme under   under which loan up to Rs 50,000 for 50,000 families at 4% interest without collateral.
 
 Similarly, another scheme named after party veteran Sunder Singh Bhandari under which 50,000 families of weaker sections will get Rs 50,000 loan for self-employment at 4% interest without collateral.
 
 Shekawat, who had been the mentor of chief minister, had later reportedly fallen out with Raje over his son-in-law Narpat Singh Rajvi’s sidelining in the government in her previous tenure.
 
 Raje believed that Shekhawat was behind the move to unsettle her in the party in the state by the central leadership during the tenure of Rajanth Singh as the party national president. The party virtually avoided a split after the central leadership backtracked.
 
 Though she gave ticket to Rajvi in the last assembly elections from Vidhaydhar Nagar, he was neglected for a ministership with Raje bagging an overwhelming majority of 162 seats in 200 member assembly.
 
 Further, Raje government attempts to evict Rajvis from the Bungalow of the 12-Civil Lines after the demise of Shekhawat’s wife Suraj Kanwar in 2014 further vitiating the relations.
 
 The Rajput community led by   had strongly raised this issue alleged side-lining of community leaders while agitating against the period film Padmaavat in Rajasthan and had exhorted the community vote against the BJP in the recent by polls. The BJP had to face massive defeats in the bypolls forcing Raje to rethink with the assembly election on the corner, according to party sources.
 
 
