Noida: Nearly 1,000 homebuyers representing various Wish Town projects of   group staged a demonstration at the sales and marketing office of the builder on Thursday, a day ahead of the next hearing in the Supreme Court in which the fate of at least 18,000 buyers could be decided. Even as Jaypee Infratech faces a possible liquidation, the buyers demanded that they should first be given their houses before any financial liability of the company is disbursed with.

 The company has been going under an insolvency resolution, initiated by IDBI for a debt of Rs 526 crore, at the NCLT for the past nine months. The collective debt to banks by Jaypee amounts to nearly Rs 9,000 crore.
 
  The next hearing in the case is on May 11.
 
 “We are against the idea of the NCLT taking up the case as homebuyers cannot be a part of this. We are not unsecured lenders. We are consumers. We want our apartments to be delivered. We have already lost nine months in the process of resolution. We don’t think another round of resolution or even liquidation of company should be considered now as the money of hundreds of homebuyers are attached with this project. Let the builder complete and handover the apartments to us,” Krishan Mitroo, a buyer said. Supporting Mitroo’s view, Manish Gupta, another buyer said, “Jaiprakash Associates has come forward with a Rs 10,000 crore offer to cover the debts and construction costs for Wish Town. With the deposits of buyers in escrow accounts for each tower, Jaypee should now be allowed to complete the houses for the buyers.”
 
 Ajit Kumar, advisor to Jaypee, said: “We welcome the support of the homebuyers for our company. We have so far adhered to every order of Supreme Court and we will wholeheartedly accept whatever the apex court orders. We have deposited Rs 750 crore so far. We have completed 14,000 apartments and we are in a position to complete 18,000 more. Liquidation of the company is neither going to favour the interests of the buyers nor of any stakeholders.” Meanwhile, in a bid to retain buyer loyalty, Jaypee group has announced a sanction of 2,000 shares for each buyer whose apartments are pending for registration. These shares are to be transferred at the time of registration at nil consideration. 
 
 The share value of Jaiprakash Associates at NSE closing on Thursday was marked at Rs 19 at market closing. This share disbursements is part of Jaiprakash Associates offer for disposing Rs 10,000 crore in case it is allowed by the Supreme Court to infuse funds to ease debts and liabilities of Jaypee Infratech.
 
 
