PUNE: The   has sought a review of the   report on fee hike, following loopholes highlighted by experts and parents. 

 This translates into no fee regulation from the next academic year and schools will have the freedom of increasing their fees as per their wish. 
 
 Parents' associations and voluntary organisations have submitted several complaints to the education department regarding unfair hikes by schools after which the panel to frame the rules and regulations on such hikes was set up under former judge V G Palshikar.
 
 A city-based voluntary organisation Systems Correcting Movement (  ) has written to the state education department about the current situation and how it would affect parents in the forthcoming academic year.
  
  
 The Palshikar committee submitted its report in August 2017 to the state government. “However, there are many points in the report that do not supporting parents or help in keeping a tab on schools over fee hike. The report did not have clarity on fee fixation by schools and how fees should be charged was also not mentioned in the act," Vaishali Bafna, a member of Syscom, said.
 
 The panel report had some case studies about how educational institutions charged illegal fees from parents, but section 16 (1) of the act did not have details about how many schools were involved in such acts and what was the action taken on them, Bafna added.
 
 Another member of Syscom, Rajendra Dharankar, stated that the report must have stringent regulations and heavy punishment on institutions that charge illegal fees. 
 
 "The report did not have any set formula on setting the fee structure for schools. The fee should ideally be based on the institution spending, but it was missing from the committee report. It required a rigorous review as these loopholes needed to be analysed. But the review is still with the panel which will lead to more freedom to schools on hiking fees this year too," Dharankar added.
 
 Parent Ashwini Ravi said, "The representation of parents in the fee deciding committee in every school needs to be in a majority. The report had just two parent members which was unfair."
 
 The committee had recommended increasing parents' rights in fee disputes. Parents' representation was been doubled in the PTA executive body—whose approval is must for a fee increase. 
 
 The panel has also proposed that school managements be allowed a 15% fee raise every two years and the right to appeal to the statutory divisional fee revision committee (DFRC) if higher fees are not approved by parents. 
 
 
