LUCKNOW: Slow pace of voting marked the byelections for the high stakes seats of   as average poll percentage in two constituencies went down by nearly 10% as compared to 2014 Lok Sabha elections. The voting passed off peacefully, but cases of VVPATs developing some snags were reported at a few booths. 

 CM   cast his vote at booth number 250 at a primary girls' school in Gorakhpur and said he was confident of BJP victory in Gorakhpur and Phulpur.
  
  
 "BJP will win with a huge vote difference in both Gorakhpur and Phulpur. People will vote for BJP, keeping in view PM Modi's policies of development and good governance," said Yogi while slamming SP and BSP for entering into a 'apavitra' (unholy) alliance. Yogi also dismissed suggestions that the bypoll results would be a mandate on the performance of his government. He said that each election is like an examination but denied that that the bypolls were a test for his government.
 
 Gorakhpur recorded 47% polling, which was 8 percentage point less than in 2014 when the seat, then contested by now CM Yogi Adityanath, registered almost 55% polling. Yogi had relinquished the seat after becoming CM.
 
 In Phulpur, the seat vacated by deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya, the poll percentage dropped from around 50% in 2014 to around 38%. The assembly segments of Allahabad west (represented by health minister  ) and Allahabad North, recorded a low polling at 31% and 22%, respectively.
 
 Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya and UP cabinet minister Siddharth Nath Singh cast their votes at Jwala Devi Inter College, Civil Lines, in Allahabad. Deputy CM said that SP-BSP alliance will never be able to stop the 'Vijay Rath' (victory march) of BJP. "We will win the byelection with an even bigger margin,"said Maurya
 
 Earlier in the day, SP chief   said that it was a day to change history. "Iske (byelections) natije desh pradesh ke bhavishya ke liye krantikaari aur nirnaayak saabit honge... (The results of these byelections will determine the future of the country and state)," he tweeted while appealing people to cast their votes.
 
 The voting percentage dipped despite CM Yogi's hectic campaign and appeals to people to turn up in large numbers and exercise their franchise. 
 
 The drop, political experts said, was largely indicative of voters' disinterest in electing a representative whose tenure was to last less than a year. The next Lok Sabha elections are due next year.
 
 
