NEW DELHI: In the early 1990s, Hans Nagar was a celebrity orthopaedic surgeon. Son of Brigadier Hem Chand Nagar and his German wife Ida Ulrich, Nagar’s colleagues called him the “most sought after doctor” in the hospitals where he practised. Nagar is also a fellow of Royal Society of Surgeons. 

 
  
  
 He has two brothers, John and Ronald, who live in Gurugram and are the prime suspects in the shooting case. The family, which is estimated to have wealth worth several crores, has been locked in a property dispute after Nagar’s mother passed away in 2012.
 
 Apart from the   where he lived with his family, he also has a house in Safdarjung Enclave where they shift to every winter. 
 
 Everything was fine in the family till 2012. All brothers lived at the farmhouse and owned several other houses in Delhi and Gurugram. The farmhouse was registered in Ulrich’s name. But she died of a heart   without naming an heir, and the brothers found themselves arguing over the property. 
 
 Police said they would get calls from the farmhouse often as the brothers fought over trivial matters, most of which revolved around the property. The family owned a five-acre property elsewhere too, which is also disputed. But Nagar’s brothers lived in different farmhouses on the same stretch, police said. 
 
 The family said the Nagar estate was divided into nine farmlands of which one was sold to John Nagar by his mother before she died. The rest of it was acquired by Hans and his family. In 2013, John had accused his brother of destroying his farmland and had even filed a petition demanding legal action against him. 
 
 One of his colleagues, who worked closely with him at Orthonova hospital that was shut down in 2014, said there was lot to learn from Nagar. “Though I was not very close to Hans, I know that he had bought three houses near Orthonova hospital from where he was practising,” said the doctor.
 
 Sources also said that Nagar was also a witness in an assault case. A Delhi Police source said they have received information regarding the accused men being admitted at a Sonipat hospital. 
 
 
