BHUBANESWAR: A strike called by the  , that took more than 17,000   off the state's roads across the state, was called off after around 12 hours on Wednesday after the state government agreed to form a committee to look into their demand for   

 The strike, though short-lived, severely inconvenienced office goers, along with school and college students, some of whom were appearing for their Plus II and degree examinations. For many, the sweltering heat only worsened the daytime ordeal.
 
 "We had to hire a private vehicle to reach our examination centre, which was around 25 km away from our village. We had to spend a lot of extra money for this," said Sarita Sahu, a Plus II student of Gajapati district.
 
 In the cities and towns, complaints of auto-rickshaws and cabs arbitrarily raising their prices were rife while rural commuters were mostly left high and dry, without alternative modes of transport to take them to the urban centres.
 
 "I was not aware of the bus strike as I had come from Visakhapatnam by train. After reaching Bhubaneswar in the morning, I came to know about it. I was stranded with my family at the station for hours because cabs were charging rates that I could not pay," said Santosh Biswal, a resident of Dasapalla in   district.
 
 The story was similar for those who attempted to travel to the big cities. "I had planned to go to Bhubaneswar to apply for my pension papers. But due to bus strike I could not go there," said Rajib Lochan Sahu, a retired government officer of Jaraka in Jajpur district. 
 
 The bus owners association had called for an indefinite strike from March 14, with an 11-charter demand that included separate routes for city buses, revision of the motor vehicle tax and reduction of toll fees. On Tuesday the state government had agreed on 10 of the 11 demands of the association, but discussions on separate routes for city buses remained inconclusive. 
 
 The state government formed a committee which promises to find a solution to the problem of city buses and private buses running along the same route. "The committee will submit its report within three months. Keeping in view the inconvenience of commuters we called off the strike," said Debasis Nayak, spokesperson of the association.
 
 
