VARANASI: The   (VMC) might have the realised the importance of the age-old saying about the city ' Raan, Saand, Sidhi, Sanyasi, inse bachey to seve  ' (Being cautious about widows, bulls, stairs/steps and mendicants is a must for those aspiring to live happily in Varanasi), in time, ahead of the visit of   and Prime Minister   on March 12. 

 Concerned about the menace caused by stray cattle on Varanasi's roads, the administration has not intensified its drive to catch the stray cattle and sending them to animal shelter homes but is also making temporary arrangements for housing them. 
 
 Talking to TOI on Sunday, Varanasi municipal commissioner Nitin Bansal said, "Catching   to make the city roads free from their menace is a regular exercise but in view of proposed visit of French president and PM on March 12 a special drive has been launched to clear the roads."
 
 The administration is facing a lot of problems in accommodating the caught animals given the limited number of gaushalas and shelter homes for stray animals in the city. To deal with the problem, the administration is setting up temporary shelters with basic facilities like supply of water and fodder. 
 
 Varanasi Municipal Commission officials admitted that menace of bulls and stray animals roaming on roads had been a problem earlier during some VIP visits in the past. 
 
 VMC's other concern are the unequal steps of the Darbhanga ghat which would be used by the French President and PM Modi to reach a hotel for lunch on March 12 afternoon. 
 
 On February 26, when additional secretary (PM) AK Sharma had reviewed preparations at the ghat for the proposed visit he had pointed out the uneven heights of the steps at Darbhanga ghat. 
 
 Bansal said that a project for riverfront development was already in progress and the issue of uneven steps would be taken care of under the initiative. However, the administration will make some temporary arrangements to enusre that the guests do not face any problems while climbing up to the Darbhanga Ghat.
 
 
