CHANDIGARH: The high-level delegation, led by   chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, on Friday signed two MoUs in London — one for cooperation with the   to utilize knowledge to boost agricultural production and productivity and another with Johnson Matthey, a British multinational, for a project involving investment of Rs 800 crore in Haryana.

 The CM and his team held detailed discussions with representatives of the University of Birmingham and top brass of Johnson Matthey. During the discussion with university officials, Khattar stressed on the need for use of knowledge to increase agri production and productivity, which would result in increase in the income of farmers.
 
 The MoU with Johnson Matthey was signed by T L Satyaprakash, managing director, HSIIDC, and Philip Blakeman, managing director, Johnson Matthey Asia Pacific, to set up a new Rs 800-crore facility in Haryana. 
 
 The MoU with University of Birmingham was signed by T L Satyaprakash on behalf of Haryana government and Prof Tim Jones, provost and vice-principal of Birmingham University.
 
 Johnson Matthey already has two entities in India – Johnson Matthey India Private Limited (JM India) and Johnson Matthey Chemical India Private Limited. Both these are operating as 100% subsidiary of Johnson Matthey Plc.
 
 Johnson Matthey (JM), a British multinational dealing in chemicals and sustainable technologies and headquartered in the UK, has been operating in India for more than four decades, providing globally acclaimed services across a wide range of industries. These include pharmaceuticals, automotive, precious metals, fertilizers, contract research organizations, laboratories and refineries.
 
 The JM India Expansion Project involves building these two lines (one 4-wheeler production line and one two-wheeler production line) based on JM best practices along with some modifications to meet local norms. The company will need a land parcel of approximately 10 acres to set up these additional lines.
 
 JM India proposes to augment capacity by building a new plant in NCR to get the maximum advantage of proximity to the clients and support from existing plant at IMT Manesar.
 
 
