CHENNAI: Chennai City FC ( ), who survived relegation in I-League by the scrape of the neck this time, have already started planning for the next season. As a first step of their preparations, they officially announced on Tuesday that Singaporean Akbar Nawas will replace   as their head coach for the next season. Akbar had formerly managed Singapore’s   and Philippines’ Global Cebu apart from coaching the Singapore youth team.

 
 As reported by TOI, Akbar’s contract was a reward for the work he did as a technical consultant for the last four I-League matches this season. It was due to Akbar’s brave decisions and strategy - he benched CCFC’s first-choice striker   in favour of Aleksandar Rakic and emphasised on defence - that helped CCFC save relegation.
 
 “Those four matches were crucial for us and we had to be bold. I saw Rakic was sharper in practice than Joachim; so we fielded him. There were gaping holes in our defence. So we had to work on it,” Akbar, who coached Philippines’ Global Cebu before joining CCFC, told TOI here on Tuesday.
 
 The 42-year-old coach, though, doesn’t want to be in such positions in the upcoming season where he has to make bold moves. It’s for this reason that he already has roadmap chalked. He wants to play possession-based football and has started scouting players in the CFA league who can fit in his team. He has also several Indian players on his wish list.
 
 “We want to play possession-based football which needs to be effective. It means we won’t just pass it around in our own box but look to dominate proceedings at the other half. We plan to have a long preseason from July where we will work on the players’ fitness and endurance. So we are not bothered about the players’ intensity now. We’re looking at players who will have a vision to create and have footballing intelligence. We will give them the tactical inputs but the players should us that they have the ability to think about bigger gains when they are in control of the ball,” the AFC Pro-License holder said.
 
