Noted saxophonist   feels that media can play an important role in connecting youth with classical music be it Hindustani or Carnatic. The 68-year-old saxophone maestro has not only performed across the globe, but also recorded many duets of Carnatic Music with Jazz and has also given music in Tamil films. He has also learnt and performed Hindustani classical music style. The artist was in Indore on Wednesday to perform at   organzied by Sangeet Kala Academy.
 : 

  Q 1: Carnatic and Hindustani music have long been exclusive and separated from one another. How do you think this gap can be bridged? 
 
 A The gap has gradually been reduced because of digital media and easy online accessibility. It is organizations like   who can call south Indian artists in northern states and Hindustani artists in south for such programmes. Once people hear these two music styles, they will know that only presentations of the two is different but Raags are same. The names may differ but their essence is similar. 
 
 Q2: How can youngsters be connected to classical music, be it Hindustani or Carnatic? 
 
 A Youngsters are taking interest in Carnatic music. I have 700 students who want to learn Saxophone, that too in Carnatic style. The need is to well train the youngsters who have chosen classical music. They should be taken into good Gurukuls and must work hard. Once they master classical music, they can perform any style of music.
 
 Q3: How can classical music generate audience?
 
 A Radio is the best way through people can be educated about classical music. Organizations like Sangeet Kala Academy can do much better by advertising musical events like Dakshinottar Sangeetotsav. The media too can play an important role in making people aware about this music. In any south Indian city, at each of my concert, there are at least 2000 people. Awareness for Carnatic music is higher there but not for Hindustani classical.
 
 Q4: How did you find Indore’s audience? 
 
 A The response from audience here was good. They were enjoying the performance, but I could see when they did not understand my rendition and I decided to change it so that everyone can appreciate what I am singing. I can read people’s face while I am performing. 
 
 
