Nagpur: The Gadchiroli police have now urged the district government hospital doctors, who performed post-mortem on bodies 34 Maoists killed during an encounter at Rale-Kasnasur-Boriya forest on Gadchiroli-Chhattisgarh border on April 22, to preserve the viscera of the bodies for chemical analysis. This is to thwart the allegations by Maoists that their cadres were poisoned before being shot dead. Gadchiroli police are now facing several allegations from the red rebels. The Telangana State Committee of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist), through its spokesperson Jagan, has claimed in a press release that cops poisoned their cadres and some innocent villagers before killing them in cold blood. Meanwhile, residents of Gatepalli village in the region are claiming seven persons from their village are missing since April 21 when they had left for Kasnasur to attend wedding at Shoma Madavi’s residence. Sainath, divisional committee member (DVCM) and in-charge of Perimili Dalam, who was shot dead at Kasnasur encounter, was a native of Gatepalli in south Gadchiroli. The bride at the marriage in Madavi’s family is also from Gatepalli. A source from Gatepalli said eight persons Mangesh Atram, Irpa Madavi, Mangesh Madavi, Anita Gawde, Nusse Madavi, Raso Chukku Madavi, Raso Pocha Madavi and Ujju Usendi had left the village on April 21 for Kasnasur. The source said Madavis have claimed none of the eight persons reached their place for marriage. The villagers of Gatepalli feel the eight might have also been killed in the encounter. Ujju’s body was identified at the mortuary at Gadchiroli district government hospital while the rest are missing. Police said the eight were not invited at the wedding. The area was abuzz with the rumours that the cops had conspired through a former cadre-turned-home guard to poison the food at the Madavi marriage feast. Several Maoists, later killed in another encounter the following day, had also attended the marriage on April 21. Substantial food was also sent to the Maoist camp on the other side of the Indravati River for resting cadres.  The conspiracy theory was also supported by some ex-Maoists who had earlier returned to the mainstream. TOI had earlier reported that a former senior cadre had shared information that police had hired someone to spike the food at the marriage feast that made it easy for the cops to gun down the rebel cadres.  Gadchiroli SP, Abhinav Deshmukh, a medical doctor himself, had earlier denied the charges of poisoning stating it was not possible to tranquillize 40-50 people by spiking their food. “Earlier, doctors were not keen to preserve the viscera as cause of death was clear. We have now requested these be preserved and sent for chemical analysis to clear any doubt,” he said.  SP Deshmukh said DNA samples of the deceased have also been preserved. “We will conduct DNA tests of Gatepalli families too to match with those of bodies that have not yet been identified,” said Deshmukh. “It is likely the eight, like Ujju, were with Maoist leader Sainath. Either their bodies would be later identified or Sainath may have distributed them to different formations,” he said. Deshmukh also indicated some Maoists may have died due to drowning. “We have sought the post-mortem reports as soon as possible to quell all rumours,” he said.  Maoists to observe ‘bandh’ on May 4 Maoists, who have released a press note in Telugu through their Telangana State committee and which is in possession of TOI, announced a nation-wide bandh on May 4 in protest of what they termed was a fake encounter of Gadchiroli police on April 22 in which at least 34 of their cadres were eliminated. The reds have also vowed to give police a befitting reply to avenge the deaths of their cadres and villagers.  The press note, released by spokesperson Jagan, also lambasted the police for killing innocent villagers including women and children under the pretext of action against Maoists. It claimed the state forces had stepped up their aggression following the visit of PM Narendra Modi in Bastar earlier this month. Besides alleging that the police had poisoned the food of their cadres with the help of one of their informers, they also also claimed that some were also killed by being hurled into Indravati river. 