Over the last decade, football has seen a world of changes in terms of ideas, strategies, formations and various other aspects.

 
 
 
 At the turn of the century, Carlos Alberto Parreira — who guided Brazil to glory in the 1994 World Cup — spoke about a 4-6-0 formation. Though we are not quite there, the game is moving towards that.
 
 
 
 The 4-4-2, till recently most common in football, is not employed much by big clubs now. It has given way to 4-3-3, 4-2-3-1, 4-5-1 or 3-5-2, with many international teams adopting them. The evolution has brought about changes in the roles of players and their positions. One of the biggest modifications pertains to the functionality of the striker. It is often said that the traditional Number 9s are vanishing quite fast.
 
 In the past, the No 9 thrived and forged successful careers just by scoring goals. Now, it will invariably lead to questions as to what else does he bring to the team apart from scoring goals.
 
 The most prolific goal-scorers today are no longer the strikers in the traditional sense, their roles have grown manifold. They no longer just position themselves to swivel off the shoulder of the last defender or barge into the box and prod home a cross. They are more involved. They hold up the ball, help in attacking build-ups, drop deep to make space for others and also create opportunities. This holds true even for teams playing the predictable 4-4-2 today.
 
 Lionel Messi and   have dominated scoring-charts for years now; neither is classical No. 9. Writer  , in an article for World Soccer in 2015, termed the duo as “converted creators”. And, the list of new and different No. 9 isn’t confined to these two. Neymar (Brazil),   (Uruguay), Antoine Griezmann (France), Harry Kane (England), Mohamed Salah (Egypt), Kevin de Bruyne (Belgium) and also Robert Lewandowski (Poland) and   (Germany) to a large extent, are some of the leading exponents of this new role.
 
 Teams are much better prepared nowadays. The defensive formations are compact and well drilled with very little space behind the backlines to exploit. Thus, more flexibility and fluidity is needed to break down defences. That has led to new formations and newer roles for strikers.
 
 It also made the False Nine position — striker dropping down to link up and also creating space for wide men — popular. Pep Guardiola’s deployment of Messi in that position brought about a significant impact. Spain demonstrated the perfect utilization of False 9 en route to Euro 2012 title.
 
 The 2014 World Cup was conspicuous by the presence of this new-age strikers with the likes of James Rodriguez, Muller, Messi and Neymar being the leading scorers. 
 
 “Mobile and versatile strikers who are difficult to mark (Neymar, Benzema, Messi, Rodríguez, Alexis Sánchez). They also act as a link to the midfielders and create the space for them or the wingers/full backs to get behind the defensive line,” states the technical report by FIFA’s technical study group at 2014 World Cup. This is definitely going to continue and thrive in Russia with the above-mentioned players, along with a host of other similar-styled exponents, set to be key for their teams.
 
 Argentina depend on Messi to build, create and also score; Ronaldo is the biggest offensive arsenal for Portugal while England will look up to Kane for the goals and his creative service. France is teeming with talented footballers but Griezmann and Kylian Mbappe’s versatility in two thirds of the pitch would be crucial if they are to lift the title. Spain have a bit of a traditional No. 9 in Diego Costa but they are extremely flexible, with players like Koke, Isco, Thiago Alcantara and Marco Asensio capable of essaying the role.
 
 Muller is not only Germany’s leading scorer amongst the current players but delivers a lot of balls into the penalty area for others to take advantage and regularly drops down to forge the attacking moves.
 
 Suarez’s Uruguay might go in with a 4-4-2 formation but his industriousness in both finding the back of the net and also supporting the team’s play overall is vital while Egypt’s hopes of pulling off any surprises depend on their talisman Salah.
 
 Who amongst these succeed in taking their team to title remains to be seen, but one thing is for sure: The World Cup in Russia will see the new-age No. 9s eclipsing the traditional ones.
 
