LUCKNOW: The father of the 23-year-old BEd student who allegedly committed suicide in her hostel room at Dr Shakuntala Misra National Rehabilitation University on Friday has lodged an FIR against the university for harassing her.

 In the FIR, Parul Singh’s father   has named hostel warden   who has been charged under   306 and 342 (abetment of suicide and confinement).
 
 He has also mentioned some unnamed teachers, saying they shouted at Parul and misbehaved with her when she went to them to talk about her low scores in MA exam.
 
 On Thursday evening, Parul was found hanging from the grille of the window of her room.
 
 Following the incident, students had held a protest against university authorities for lack of medical facilities as there was no ambulance on the campus and the girl was rushed on a two-wheeler to hospital where she was declared brought dead.
 
 Parul’s classmates and hostel inmates said she had been disturbed over her marks for a few days. One of her classmates said, “Parul was upset and looked lost when we would talk to her.”
 
 
 
 
 “In the complaint, the girl’s family has alleged that the warden and some teachers shouted at the girl when she went to them with a query about her marks being lower than expectation. The family believes that was the reason behind her drastic step. No suicide note was recovered,” said SHO of Para police station  .
 
 Singh said his daughter had completed MA in English from the same university in 2017 before taking admission to BEd. He added that she had scored well in all papers except one in which teachers had forgotten to enter her internal scores in the final tally. That had been disturbing her for some time.
 
 “She had shared over the phone that the university administration was ‘torturing’ her. For the internal assessment, the teacher forgot to enter her score and marked her absent instead. She reappeared in the internal examination after submitting a medical certificate as directed by the university but her scores were not revised,” said Singh. She had enrolled in BEd last year and scored well in the first semester. However, despite requests and reminders, her marks were not updated in the final marksheet, he added.
 
 “She was an introvert and hardly spoke to anyone. But, for the past few days, she had been upset over her marks and said that the university administration was troubling her a lot,” said a hostel inmate.
 
 She said Parul attended all classes and was a very sincere student.
 
 
