NAGPUR: City will expand up to  , excluding Wardha Road, within 20 years as per Metropolitan Region’s Development Plan (DP). On Wardha road, the city will expand up to  , touching the district boundary.

 Guardian minister   and Nagpur Metropolitan Region Development (NMRDA) commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar on Sunday gave a power point presentation to media persons on metro region’s DP published on January 9.
 
 Mhaisekar said nine urban growth centres have been identified and will be developed in a phased manner. “Initially, draft DP included 10 centres of which the state government deleted one — North-B — due to upgradation of a couple of gram panchayats into municipal panchayats. NMRDA will develop four of the nine centres in first five years followed by the remaining five in 20 years. Residential use is permissible in these centres subject to payment of 15% premium (plot owners have to pay 15% of ready reckoner value for getting sanctioned houses or flats),” he said.
 
 As per map of the nine centres, all are within the Outer Ring Road excluding south centre (Wardha Road). South centre will be up to the district boundary probably even beyond Butibori MIDC.
 
 Bawankule said chief minister   has given a big relief to lakhs of plot/land owners of the  . “NMRDA had proposed residential zones in scattered manner outside gaothan (small actual village boundary) area. However, Fadnavis rejected this and permitted residential use to a certain distance from gaothan area. Now, residential use can be permissible within 750 meters from gaothan boundary for village with population of less than 5,000 and within 1km for village with 5,000-plus population. Gram panchayat will continue to be the authority for gaothan area. NMRDA will enter gaothan area only if directed by the government for some special reasons,” he said.
 
 Bawankule also said Fadnavis saved a large number of existing buildings falling under service area of the district’s major roads and buffer zone of water bodies. “Provision of service area on the district’s major roads has been abolished and buffer zone of water bodies reduced to a great extent. Boundaries of all water bodies will be demarcated and preserved,” he said.
 
 Mhaisekar added unauthorized plots and constructions done before December 31, 2015 will be regularized. “Those outside residential zones will not be regularized at all. Charges of Rs 105 per sq.mt for areas within Outer Ring Road and Rs 85 per sq.mt for outside the Outer Ring Road will be recovered if the layout developer wants to execute developmental works within the layout from NMRDA. Also, NMRDA will recover these development charges in case layout developer fails to execute the works,” he said.
 
 Mhaisekar also said now plot owners do not require to come to NMRDA for building plan sanction on plots up to 200 sq.mt. “Architects, structural engineers and surveyors can sanction plans after depositing charges with the NMRDA. There would be only one residential zone as the government did not accept NMRDA’s proposal for four residential zones. Also, agriculture land will be categorized in only one zone,” he said.
 
 Mhaisekar said Nagpur metro region was the first in the state to get permission for transfer of development rights (TDR). “Base floor space index is 1.1.   has been made permissible in metro region. Maximum FSI using premium and TDR will be 2.8,” he said.
 
 Charges for getting sanction to layout, building plans and regularization will be as per prevailing rates of the Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT).
 
 
