NEW DELHI: Distraught parents of a doctor who was murdered in   last year want the investigation to be handed over to the CBI.

 On Monday, parents of   approached the   challenging a recent Delhi high court order expressing satisfaction with the police probe where it had also asked the magistrate concerned to monitor the progress of police investigation.
 
 A bench of Chief justice Dipak Misra, justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud issued a notice to Delhi Police and sought a reply by April 13 on the plea questioning the HC order, which had incidentally come on a missing person’s petition filed by the mother of the prime accused, Dr Suyash Gupta.
 
 Pande’s parents, both doctors, told SC their apprehension that Delhi Police is not conducting the investigation in a fair manner and that “is buttressed by the fact that six months have passed since the incident. However, till date the state police have made no progress whatsoever in the investigation and moreover nothing is forthcoming about the whereabouts of the accused.”
 
 Appearing for the accused, advocate Siddhartha Dave argued that even while Pande’s parents had filed a petition in HC seeking transfer of the probe to CBI, a division bench of HC, on the plea of the accused’s kin, has gone ahead and directed trial court to monitor police investigation.
 
 “The observations made by HC division bench in the impugned order may thwart the HC single judge from passing any efficacious orders in the ongoing proceedings filed by the petitioners seeking transfer of the investigation from Delhi Police to the Central Bureau of Investigation,” the plea in SC points out.
 
 It said that despite their efforts to convince the division bench not to hear Gupta’s petition, it went ahead and recorded satisfaction with police probe, though the victims’ family wants a CBI investigation.
 
 On the last hearing in HC on Pande’s plea, the court had in January this year granted one more chance to SIT to trace the elusive doctor. However, after that order by a single judge, a division bench asked the trial court to review once a month the progress of the probe, while hearing a habeas corpus petition filed by Gupta’s mother.
 
 Addressing the concerns of Gupta’s mother that the status reports by police were merely cut-paste copies of earlier reports and that no real progress was being made in the case to trace his missing son, the bench noted that every possible effort was being made to find him.
 
 Pande was working as an intern in the radiology department of the hospital and was found dead inside the hospital’s CT scan lab in August last year.
 
 
