NEW DELHI: In its faceoff with the bureaucracy, the Delhi government stepped up the ante on Thursday with deputy CM   shooting off a letter to the education and the art, culture and languages departments. Sisodia claimed that officers of the two departments were not sending weekly reports to the respective ministers on important proposals and action taken on them, which was in violation of the Transaction of Business of Delhi Government Rules, 1993.

 The letter was also marked to chief secretary Anshu Prakash, sources said. They added that other ministers, too, were expected to write similar letters to officers of other departments. The government has asked the officers concerned to ensure that the submission of reports resumed from February 26.
 
 The Transaction of Business of Government of Delhi Rules, 1993, states that every Monday, the “secretary should submit to the minister in-charge a statement showing the particulars of important proposals disposed of in the department during the preceding week”. “These reports have not been submitted for the last several months. The letter is to reiterate that the weekly reports are required to be submitted,” Sisodia, who heads the education and art, culture and languages departments wrote in his letter.
 
 He directed the principal secretary, education, to submit weekly reports, “indicating the current status of important proposals, matters related to her department, the progress made every week, the expected timeline by which the work will be completed and also the constraints being faced and the coordination required”. Sisodia further wrote: “If a matter of the education department is pending with any other department, then it is the responsibility of the principal secretary, education, to find out the current status and give reasons for the delay.”
 
 Meanwhile, in the first resignation by an official since the row between government and officers erupted, Dhir Jhingran, member of the state advisory council for education, resigned from his post. 
 
