BENGALURU: Maiyas, the eponymous food & beverages brand founded by  , who built and sold the storied  , has shut down production following a breakdown in business relationship between him and private equity investor  .

 
 The products of Maiyas — sweets, snacks, instant mixes and ready-to-cook categories — are out of stock across retailers in southern markets as the working capital required to keep the factory running dried up in the wake of the shareholder dispute. This is the latest blow up between private equity investors — who are long-term risk capital providers — and traditional Indian business families, many of which landed in courts or ended in distress sales.
 
 The six-year-old, Bengaluru-based  , with 350 staff on rolls, is in turmoil as the founder seeks to walk away from the business after failing to get along with Peepul Capital. But no agreement on the terms of severance has landed the company in a logjam. The other option is for Maiya to bring a new investor and remain with the company, though largely as a mascot.
 
 Peepul Capital and   own 30% stake each, while the Maiya family has the remaining 40%. However, sources said Peepul’s effective holding would be higher at 57% given the convertible instruments deployed for investments. This would convert into equity shares if the company underperformed. Similarly, Maiya, who gets diluted to 10%, would have seen shareholding claw back if performance met certain milestones, sources added.
 
 Maiya, 67, launched the company after his no-compete with the Norwegian giant Orkla — which acquired MTR Foods a decade ago — expired in 2012. He initially raised funds from Ascent Capital and later from Peepul, both investors pumping in Rs 280 crore till date. Maiya’s equity contribution was in the range of Rs 50-70 crore. The company, which had hired professional management, was tracking an annual revenue run rate of Rs 300 crore (or Rs 25 crore a month as of October last year), which is a big leap from the Rs 125-crore revenue reported in FY16.
 
 “It’s a classic case of communication breakdown between a sentimental, and at times unpredictable, Indian family businessman and a control investor,” said one of the sources cited earlier and speaking on the condition of anonymity. Peepul manages assets worth over $700 million with large stakes in several smaller, high-growth companies. When contacted, Peepul Capital and Ascent Capital declined to comment. Maiya could not be reached despite repeated attempts. 
 
 Sources said the uneasy ties between Maiya and Peepul erupted mid-last year when the founder declined to bring in follow-on capital as part of an agreed road map. Maiya also said he was prepared to exit the company and entered into months long discussions regarding the same. Maiya would walk out with the restaurant business — a small piece, with about Rs 30 crore turnover — and remain as chairman of the packaged foods company in return for an annual remuneration. The founder family was also to be relieved of all the guarantees and pledges executed towards bank loans totaling around Rs 100 crore.
 
 But as discussions prolonged, Peepul changed the terms of agreement, citing the company’s deteriorating financials. This infuriated Maiya who has carried his pedigree with pride. “In an evolving agreement, there are several back and forth, until there is a practical outcome for every stakeholder. Unfortunately, it has been a deadlock in this case,” a second source mentioned above added. Meanwhile, the directors nominated by Peepul Capital resigned from the board of the company, citing personal security reasons. 
 
 A few intermediaries are currently attempting to broker a deal to resurrect a bleeding but promising business, besides arguing a safe exit for one of the country’s pioneering food entrepreneurs.
 
 
