PUNE: The city branch of the   (IMA) has sought state government’s intervention after civic health officers persisted that they would not grant renewal to 150 small and medium size  .

 Health officials of the   (PMC) have told these hospitals to get their nurses registered with the council, failing which they will not be granted renewal, the deadline for which is March 31.
 
 
 Experts associated with the IMA, however, said that registration with the state nursing council is mandatory only for qualified nurses and not for the trained staff.
 
 “We have requested state health minister Deepak Sawant to intervene as there has been no breakthrough in this matter. These hospitals will run into trouble or even face closure if they fail to get renewal by March 31. The minister has assured to address the issue at the earliest,” said eyesurgeon Sanjay Patil, chairman of IMA’s   (HBI), Pune branch.
 
 The   branch has 4,500 allopathic doctors as its members. The HBI has 150 small and medium hospitals as members from the city. Besides, 300 other city-based hospitals, which are not HBI members, are facing a similar problem.
 
 “If these hospitals do not get renewed licences, they will face severe problems. PMC might not issue birth certificate to newborn delivered at such ahospital. Moreover, if a medico-legal case arises, the doctor can be charged for working in an illegal establishment,” said gynaecologist Avinash Bhutkar, adviser, HBI, IMA Pune.
 
 PMC’s mandate could lead to a crisis in the public health sector as 80% of the patients seek treatment at small nursing homes, Bhutkar added.
 
 Currently, hospitals have to abide by the norms laid down by the Bombay Nursing Home Registration Act. The Clinical Establishment Act is yet to be tabled in the assembly. Even if the Act is passed in the next session, it provides a three-year period to implement the guidelines, say experts.
 
 “We are wondering on what grounds are the new rules being enforced during the registration process. The Bombay Nursing Home Act expects only maternity hospitals to employ midwives or registered nurses,” said senior paediatrician Jayant Navarange, chairman of IMA Pune’s medico-legal cell.
 
 Vaishali Jadhav, assistant medical officer of health (AMoH), PMC said, “IMA’s office-bearers have met with us regarding the nurse registration issue. We have sought guidance from the state government on the matter.”
 
 Despite repeated attempts, Sawant could not be contacted for his comment.
 
