BENGALURU: Carved out of Uttarahalli, once India’s largest assembly constituency, Rajarajeshwarinagar has embraced urbanisation with even a swanky mall now added to cater to a host of layouts.

 
 Politically, tension is apparent.   has burnt many bridges, with nine BBMP corporators, including five of his own party, embittered by his alleged ill-treatment being the most notable.
 
 
 
  
 If dispirited cadres on the ground is one battle to fight, a host of corruption charges, allegations of him harassing women corporators and misusing power will be the other hurdles he’d need to overcome.
 
 “It is not just the corporators, even voters are against him,” says BJP spokesperson Malavika Avinash. However, BJP has lost GH Ramachandra to the JD(S) and he claims to have taken away at least 50% of the local cadre.
 
 But P Muniraju Gowda of BJP is confident of winning in the state’s secondlargest constituency (by number of voters — 4.5 lakh). Boosting his confidence is the fact that he had managed 1.3 lakh votes in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections from Bengaluru Rural which also includes Rajarajeshwarinagar.
 
 Another reason he’s confident is the strong Vokkaliga vote base—1.3 lakh of 4.5 lakh—even as observers say the 30,000-strong Telugu votes will sway against BJP. Ramachandra, who is also vying to woo Vokkaliga voters, however, says: “We have a strong chance here given the sentiments of people against the sitting MLA.”
 
 And, political observers say there is an “extraneous” force also working against the incumbent. “It will not be surprising if you see a Vokkaliga consolidation against Munirathna, which will mean that he’ll have to get all the other communities to back him, which, going by his present friends-tofoes ratio, may not be an easy task.”
 
 All these factors may make it appear like Munirathna has gotten himself into a ‘chakravyuh’, but he says: “I am confident that people recognise my work.”
 
 He is confident that he will be no ‘Abhimanyu’ in this ‘chakravyuh’ as he knows his way out.
 
 
