Chief minister   called his   a regular 2018-19 financial document and insisted that his government will return to power to implement it. He dismissed reports of rolling out sops ahead of the assembly elections.

 “This budget was never meant to be an election budget,” Siddaramaiah said, with a hint of undermining pre-budget analysis made by political pundits and opposition parties. “What is an election budget? There is no such term in the Constitution. Those who have read it (Constitution) will not term budgets as such. I have presented a budget that is based on our confidence of returning to power to implement it.”
 
 
 Siddaramaiah said the 2018-19 budget was prepared by “seriously applying minds” to ensure it was pratical. “This budget was prepared as part of normal course of this government’s administration,” Siddaramaiah reiterated.
 
 The chief minister, hitting out at previous CMs for announcing sops and bigticket projects ahead of elections, said he too could have done the same. “But then we cannot make false assurances, and every budget needs to be prepared based on available resources,” he said.
 
 Earlier, Siddaramaiah defended his budget proposals and revenue estimates which he admitted will see a shortfall for the year 2017-18. “While all income avenues will achieve targets, the excise department revenue target will see a shortfall,” he said. “The shortfall is expected to be Rs 450 crore, with a total revenue collection of Rs 17,600 crore by March 31 as opposed to the target of Rs 18,050 crore that was set in the previous year’s budget. This shortfall is due to the   judgement banning sale of liquor along national highways.” Siddaramaiah said as many as 3,000 licences could not be renewed and these pubs and bars had to be shutdown.
 
 “With regard to the allocation to departments, I can assure you that there has been no deduction and every sector has got its allocations,” he said.
 
 On the opposition claims that the government is taking huge loans and providing “loan bhagya” to the people, Siddaramaiah dismissed it and said the   government was taking these loans for development and asset creations. “We are not taking loans on an ad-hoc basis. Loans should be taken on affordability not availability,” he said. In the 2018-19 budget, the government proposes to secure Rs 39,328 crore in loans.
 
