In the latest episodes of  , Mithu seems to be extremely upset as   is leaving with the new born baby. She cries a lot. 
Mithu had previously requested Iman to allow her to take care of the baby. But Iman isn’t ready. She explains Mithu that she has none other than the child. But Iman tells her that she can visit her place anytime.
 
 Mithu tries to convince her to stay back but Iman doesn’t want to listen. She asks her to keep the ego aside and forget what happened with   and  . Iman seems to be offended. Mithu leaves.
 
 Iman tries to explain her situation to the baby. As an emotional mother she tells her child to forgive her for leaving Ranajay. 
 
 The entire family requests Iman to stay. Ranajay’s father asks her to reconsider her decision of taking a job in  , which is far away. They also express their concern over babysitting the child when Iman is busy at hospital. Ranajay’s mother volunteers to go with her. But Iman says that she should stay with the family members and take care of them. 
 
 Badshah tries to convince Iman by saying that she won’t be able to find a caretaker very soon and hence Ranajay’s mother should accompany her to Ujanpur.
 
 In between their conversation Ranajay arrives. He has brought Shruti and Michil back with him. The other family members get upset with this. They start criticising both Ranajay and Shruti. Ranajay’s father informs Ranajay about Iman’s decision to go Ujanpur for job. 
 
 Shruti requests her to stay but Iman insults her. Ranajay reveals that Shruti is in an advanced stage of cancer and she would live not more than 6 months. But no one seems to be bothered except Mithu.
 
 Ranajay is upset with the fact that his boss is interfering with his personal affairs. Badshah and his boss even went to drop Shruti at Halidia, where her parents live. 
 
 Ranajay blames his boss for his behavior. His boss accuses Ranajay of lying about the reason behind his leave application. He opines that Ranajay should have taken care of Iman instead of Shruti. 
 
 Ranajay replies that he has taken the leaves for personal reasons. His boss warns that he would cancel the leaves. He adds that he will take care of Shruti after his duty hours. Ranajay further reminds his boss that his personal matters are none of his business.
 
 His boss feels insulted. They get into a heated argument and Ranajay warns that he would complaint against him to the higher authorities. He also blames that he has provoked Iman against him (Ranajay). 
 
