CHANDIGARH: The residents of Sector 45A and Burail village are dealing with everyday nuisance because of lack of dustbins in the area.

 The stretch of the Motor Market that runs from AKSIPS ( ) till about half a kilometre ahead towards St Stephen’s School does not have a single dustbin leaving the entire vicinity on the mercy of the safai-karamcharis and the area residents, who have been selectively taking care of the   there. “This entire market does not have any dustbin that can be used by the shopkeepers during the day. Thus, the garbage generated from the surroundings directly lands on the road,” said  , a resident.
 
 Due to the nature of purchases, pertaining to car junk and repair, the market is visibly saturated with grease marks, metal waste, crushed metal residue, old rusted spare parts among others, that have eaten into a major portion of the walking stretch before the roads, thus leaving very little place for free movement. At the same time, the pavement running beside the metal barrier, alongside the road is full of old, used pieces of clothing, plastic waste, heaps of tea cups among other types of filth including sludge and dust. 
 
 “No one cares about this place. Let alone the main road, the corners of this stretch are infested with wet plastic and paper waste, where flies and other insects breed and smells awful. The tea cups come from the roadside tea sellers, who leave the used cups there itself due to lack of a dustbin,” said a shopkeeper Ashok.
 
 The parks in the vicinity are also in shambles and have not been mowed in a long time, with visible wild growth and small twigs which are in need of pruning and cleaning. However, the presence of a singular dumpster, placed centrally on the road, before a residential park has added another dimension to the civic neglect in the area. The area around the dumpster has garbage and residual waste scattered around, infested with flies and insects. A large number of stray animals like cows and dogs are also seen defecating around this point.
 
 However, the local councillor   said, “There are safai-karamcharis who clean the roads everyday, but the metal waste that is produced by the shopkeepers, is not our responsibility. Also, I have ordered 10-15 new dustbins for the market which will reach soon.”
 
 
