BENGALURU: For the better part of this season, Englishman Moeen Ali had warmed the Royal Challengers Bangalore bench. Then, when RCB’s season appeared to be coming apart at the seams and the team had tried what they thought was their best players and failed, Ali was finally pressed into service.

 
 
 
 The left-handed batting allrounder made his debut for RCB against the Sunrisers Hyderabad in the away contest 10 days ago. He hasn’t disappointed. On Thursday too, against the same opponents at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium, Ali faced another challenge on his hands. Skipper Virat Kohli had departed early after   had called right at the toss, and someone needed to take the fight right back to table-toppers. Ali came to the party with a breezy 65 (34b, 2x4, 6x6) that inspired awe alongside the ever-dependable   (69, 39b, 12x4, 1x6) to help RCB to a commanding 218/6 - the third highest total of the season.
 
 
 
 In return, the home team bowlers almost undid the batsmen’s effort. Red-hot Williamson (81, 42b, 7x4, 5x6) and Manish Pandey (62,38b, 7x4, 2x6) took apart the RCB bowlers with their 67-ball 135-run stand for the third wicket. But in the end, the visitors fell 14 runs short, finishing at 204/3. Needing 20 off the last over, Hyderabad lost Williamson off the first ball bowled by Mohammed Siraj and with that ended their hopes of an unlikely win.
 
 The victory helped RCB keep their playoff qualification hopes alive with 12 points (fifth position) and a match to go. RCB had come into this match needing a win, but that looked a bleak proposition when opener Parthiv Patel — dropped off the first ball by Deepak Hooda — didn't make the reprieve count. Kohli followed, when, after pulling spin ace Rashid Khan (3-27) for a boundary, fell in the same over while attempting a lavish slog. Two wickets down and 44 on the board, RCB needed a healthy dose of stability and aggression in equal measure. De Villiers and Ali provided just that.
 
 The SRH bowlers, known for their disciplined bowling, found themselves at the receiving end. Basil Thampi, who replaced Bhuvneshwar Kumar, endured a nightmarish evening when he conceded 70 from his four overs and was saddled with the unwanted tag of being the most expensive   bowler ever. With no maximums until the eight over, Ali picked Thampi to begin the assault with back-to-back sixes. The over produced 19 overs.
 
 De Villiers too put on show his array of shots but didn’t get too many big ones. In contrast, Ali’s batting was fearless. In the 11th over, he danced down the pitch to send a Rashid googly over long off.
 
