NEW DELHI: Mobs vandalised theatres, multiplexes and unleashed large-scale violence, forcing cancellation of the special screening of ‘Padmaavat’ in many parts of the country on the eve of the release of the Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s film.

 Even as paramilitary forces conducted a flag-march in Ahmedabad, violence continued unabated in many parts of   on Wednesday. At least three state-run buses were vandalised in   and north Gujarat, while mobs jammed the Ahmedabad-Vadodara expressway and Bhavnagar-Una highway.
 
 In Pune, 17 Karni Sena members were arrested for damaging a truck and deflating tyres of heavy vehicles on the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway. The police stopped members of Karni Sena from entering the   dam in Nashik to perform ‘jal samadhi’, and arrested at least 43 protesters. On the eve of the nationwide release of the film, terror-struck Gujarat Multiplex Owners Association (GMOA), Cinematograph Exhibitor’s Association of Gujarat (CEAG) and Multiplex Association of India (MAI) announced that ‘Padmaavat’ would not be screened in 120 cinemas across the state. The Gujarat government, which had earlier appealed to people to voluntarily boycott watching the movie, expressed gratitude to cinema owners for their “no-show” decision.
 
 In Rajasthan, Karni Sena members blocked the Jaipur-Delhi highway, burnt tyres and shouted slogans against Bhansali and ‘Padmaavat’. Arson erupted in several parts of MP as protesters torched vehicles and clashed with the police. Hundreds of Karni Sena members resorted to vandalism in Indore and Ujjain.
 
 
 
 The Udaipur administration has directed the education department to ensure that students do not perform to the song ‘Ghoomar’ from ‘Padmaaavat’ in schools across the district on Republic Day.
 
 The directive came a day after members of   served a memorandum to the Udaipur collector, threatening that the situation may go “out of control” if students performed to the song.
 
 Collector Bishnu Charan Mallick said, “It is not an order but more of a directive or alert notification asking school authorities to take needed measures to prevent any untoward situation.”
 
