NEW DELHI: Both, the BJP and the  , are confident of winning the assembly elections in  , voting for which concluded yesterday.

 
 While BJP's chief ministerial candidate BS   said that his party will win 125-130 seats, Congress leader and state chief minister 
 asked his party workers to "enjoy the weekend" and "not worry" about the 
  
 
 "Relax and enjoy your weekend. We are coming back," the Congress leader tweeted.
 
  
  
 The Congress leader also asked his party workers to not rely on the predictions of the exit polls, results for which are scheduled to be announced on May 17.
 
  
  
 
 "Exit opinion polls are entertainment for the next two days. Relying on poll of polls is like a person who can’t swim crossing a river on foot relying on a statistician who told him the average depth of the river is 4 feet. Please note average of 6+4+2 is 4. At 6 feet you drown!" he added.
 
 BJP's 
 was more precise with his predictions.
 
  
  
 
 "BJP will win more than 125-130 seats, Congress will not be able to cross 70 seats and JD(S) will not cross 24-25 seats. There is a silent and strong wave in favour of BJP and public anger against Siddaramaiah and Congress," he said.
 
  
  
 The BJP leader also said that his party is confident of victory and will form the government on May 17.
 
 Both the leaders were speaking a day after the conclusion of single-phase voting in Karnataka. Seventy 
  voter turnout was reported from the state.
 
 Congress sees the higher polling percentage as a clear sign of winds of change that would bring the party back to power. But BJP has a different take. It feels the increase in turnout was because more of its supporters turned up.
 
  
  
 
 As exit polls predicted that JD(S) will emerge as a kingmaker, party supremo 
  said that he was not yet "prepared" to "accept or reject" anything and asked people to wait for the results day.
 
 "I am not prepared to accept or reject anything, let's wait for May 15 (counting of votes), we will get to know the reality," he told ANI.
 
 Exit polls were divided on the outcome of the polls. Two exit polls suggested a BJP victory, while one gave a clear majority to Congress. Three exit polls predicted a fractured mandate.
 
 However, all the polls agreed that former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda-led JD (S) will be garner a substantial number of seats, anywhere from 20-to-40 seats.
 
 
  
