Nashik: hough the city is being connected by air to different parts of the country there are hardly any options for the fliers to travel from the airport to the city and vice-versa.

 While there is no bus service at the airport, the autorickshaw drivers demand hefty amount from the passengers. Keeping the problems being faced by the travelers in mind, a city-based travel agency has started to provide taxi and mini-bus service on sharing basis.
 
 The price set by the company for every passenger is Rs 350. The distance from airport to the city is around 20km. The travel agency is owned by the president of Travel Agents Association Nashik (TAAN).
 
 “We are planning to provide pick-up and drop facilities to passengers travelling by Delhi-Nashik return flights from June 15. This service is to facilitate the passengers,” an official from the travel agency said.
 
 “Initially, we will rope in two taxis and a mini bus for the transport service. We are also in talks with some other agencies for the same purpose. Initially, one side fare for city to Ozar airport will be Rs 350 per seat. But we will reduce the fare following good response from the passengers,” he added.
 
 While Air Deccan has started its operations from Nashik in December last year, Jet Airways will deploy 168-seater aircraft on Nashik-Delhi air routes from June 15. The flight will operate thrice a week on every Monday, Wednesday and Friday.
 
 Jet Airways won the bid under second phase of Regional Connectivity Scheme – known as Udaan. In the second phase, five airline operators won the bids to operate from Ozar Airport in Nashik to seven cities — Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, Bangalore, Bhopal, Hindan, Delhi and Goa. The five airline operators are Jet Airways, SpiceJet, TruJet, Alliance Air and Indigo.
 
 The state government and Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) have jointly developed the airport terminal at Ozar at a cost of Rs 84 crore in 2014. The government spent the money, while the land was owned by the HAL. The government later transferred the airport to HAL on a lease of Re 1 a month for a period of 30 years. 
 
 
