BHOPAL: After the hype over ‘phased prohibition’, the Madhya Pradesh government has set itself a target of de-addicting 50,000 people in election year. And an Ayurvedic medicine named   is the magic pill that will help people kick liquor, drugs and tobacco.

 It’s the social justice department that has set the target in collaboration with  . A statewide campaign will be launched to identify addicts, who will then be taken to Gayatri centres and helped to stay away from all forms of addiction. The organisers will use a three-step strategy — addicts will be asked to take a pledge, they will put on a course of Hariras, and counselled simultaneously, said an official. 
 
 Principal secretary   said that apart from helping addicts kick the habit, there will be a lot of activities to create awareness in society against drugs, alcohol and tobacco. A human chain of 5 lakh people will be formed in Bhopal and adjoining cities in April. It will be unique in that no one will use a vehicle to join the chain, said Shah. “Wherever a person is, they can join hands and form the human chain to support de-addiction,” Shah added.
 
 Anand Vijay, youth group state coordinator of Gayatri Shakti Peeth, Bhopal, confirmed that the anti-addiction medicine is called Hariras. “It comes from   and is very effective. Hariras pills help cut down the urges of addiction,” he said, adding: “We want a complete ban on liquor in MP. A signature campaign is underway in different corners of the state for this. We will hand over a memorandum, signed by 1 crore people, for prohibition.”
 
 The government is spending big money on anti-liquor awareness drives. While this may be having an effect (consumption is down), government revenue from liquor shot up from Rs 2,300 crore in the April-June period of 2016 to Rs 2,411 crore in 2017. Booze is very expensive in MP — prices here are the second highest in the country, next to Karnataka.
 
 Since the CM first announced plans for prohibition in January last year, by removing all liquor shops within 5km of Narmada riverbanks, 66 liquor shops have shut down and at least 50 liquor contractors have offered to surrender their licence because of public protests. Officials feel a blanket ban on liquor is not a solution. Rather, people should be demotivated from consuming alcohol, they believe. The social justice department and Gayatri Shakti Peeth have been roped in for this. The de-addiction drive will find support among women, especially in rural and tribal areas, in election year.
 
 
