CHANDIGARH: In an effort to help young entrepreneurs of the region realise their business dreams, the Chandigarh Chapter of the   (TiE) launched the two-day TiE summit –   2018 at the Indian School of Business, Mohali on Thursday. The first day of the event featured a number of dignitaries speaking on the theme- ‘Entrepreneurship in the Age of Disruption’. Prominent personalities present on the first day, included chief minister of Punjab, Amarinder Singh, British High Commissioner,   and   finance minister  .

 However, it was the initiative of the young businessmen outside the auditorium that stole the show. Around 40 selected startups displayed their products and processes representing fields like agritech, fintech, robotech and others.
 
 
 The event gives an opportunity to young entrepreneurs to launch their own projects. It is also aimed at encouraging people with existing startups and companies that close in on increasing the capital and giving them an opportunity to present their ideas to a board of angel investors, industrialists and entrepreneurs.
 
 The funding clinics were sponsored by the   (CAN), a community of successful entrepreneurs committed to investing in promising business ideas. Their primary focus is to facilitate investments in the seed and growth level ventures. “Finding funds is the most difficult task for any startup as there is a lack of trust in the product. Hence, such events are a great opportunity for us,” said Khushwant Rai, a fourth year student from the PEC University of Technology who was their to showcase his startup.
 
 Sharing similar notions, Simran from   said, “I am from the field of Arts and it is very difficult to find investors. So far, our universities are helping us in our ventures. But to take it forward, this event is certainly going to be of great help.”
 
 The event is bringing likeminded people together on one platform. It is helping them explore other initiatives that they could connect to. The inaugural day witnessed a significant number of participants from the startups and also existing companies expressing their desire to start new ventures in collaboration with the TiE. There was also a lineup of speakers. Leading lawyers are providing free legal advice. Renowned industrialists, diplomats and government officials were also present. There were speakers from Uttarakhand, HP, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana, and Punjab.
 
