MADURAI: The   department has said that it has taken steps to sort out grievances in using online registration while replying to a contempt case that came up for hearing before the Madurai bench of the Madras high court. The inspector general of registration   also said that the development team has been asked to carry out changes and an interim solution without pre-verification would be in place within this month and simplification in back-office would be in place in two months.

 He further said the registration department is open to take inputs from all stakeholders to simplify the software as well as to provide new facilities in the software. 
 
 The bench had ordered the registration department that private document writers should not be allowed to create index for registration (abstract of documents or base data of the property) and that authorities must address discrepancies in guideline values of lands displayed on official website. 
 
 Stating that the department did not obey the court order, K   filed a contempt plea. When it came up for hearing before the division bench of justices C T   and A M  , the government side produced the additional counter affidavit of the inspector general (IG) of registration.
 
 The IG of registration said that the   chief minister inaugurated the new software (STAR 2.0) for the online registration process, on February 12. After that, totally 3,26,200 documents got registered online from February 13 to April 10, through which the department received a revenue of Rs 1,262.07 crore. The revenue was higher than the revenue collected during the corresponding period in the last year. It shows that the public are using the online system without any hassle. 
 
 Besides, the department is giving periodic training to all stakeholders and is still collecting feedback from all them. If the feedback is for simplification of the system, then it is accepted and sent to the development team for carrying out the simplification in the software. Major feedback was to take away the pre-verification process. Accordingly, the development team has been asked to carry out the above chances. An interim solution without pre-verification would be in within this month and simplification is back-office would be in place in two months.
 
 Accepting the affidavit, the bench closed the contempt petition.
 
 
