PUDUCHERRY: The opposition   has threatened to lodge a complaint with the   if the MLAs holding offices of profit in the Union territory do not resign within 15 days.

 AIADMK legislature party leader A Anbalagan told reporters on Saturday, that the ruling   party, in an effort to convince the disgruntled MLAs in the party and in the alliance partner DMK, had offered the leaders positions like the parliamentary secretary to the chief minister, and chairman and managing director of quasi-government agencies.
 
 Pointing out that the ECI has recommended the disqualification of 20 AAP MLAs on charges of holding the   post of parliamentary secretary. 
 
 “They have been using the government buildings as their offices, government vehicles for transportation and appointing their assistants, who are being paid by the government. It is high time they realise that their actions are against the law and resign from the office of profit posts within 15 days to retain their MLA seat, lest AIADMK will lodge a complaint with the Election Commission of India,” said Anbalagan.
 
 The AIADMK leader also lambasted chief minister V   for surrendering to the   party for personal gains. He made the remark after Narayanasamy participated in a function presided by the Union external affairs minister  , to inaugurate post office passport service kendra at Karaikal, in which BJP Puducherry unit president V Saminathan was treated like a state minister.
 
 The nomination of Saminathan and two other BJP loyalists to the legislative assembly by the Union government without the consultation of the Congress government had stirred a hornet’s nest. 
 
 Anbalagan pointed out that the Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan stalled an event when the BJP state president was invited as one of the chief guests of a government function.
 
 He also criticised Narayanasamy for terming   as a leader of the stature of J Jayalalithaa and claimed that the chief minister’s comment proved that the Congress leader had completely surrendered to the BJP.
 
 
