HYDERABAD: With chief minister   keen on restoring Darbar Hall’s regal glory, senior officials of the general administration (protocol) department got into the thick of action on Monday by inspecting the   where   is located. The immediate plan is to remove the seating system inside the Darbar Hall where the legislative council used to meet and have a new 90-seat elevation to provide a big space.

 As the CM wants the works completed in 4-5 days, the officials are racing against time to meet the deadline and also ensure that the facade is not disturbed as the entire Jubilee Hall precincts is protected under heritage laws. Sources said the CM is planning to convert it into a massive meeting hall where he would chair key meetings with district collectors and SPs. “Former CMs of united   used to convene district and statelevel meetings with collectors and SPs and hold DRC meetings here. They also used to meet foreign dignitaries in this hall,” a senior R&B official told TOI.
 
  
 GAD officials inspected the Jubilee Hall twice and interacted with the legislative council chairman and officials concerned to take up renovation works at the Darbar Hall. “Jubilee Hall was awarded the INTACH Heritage Award in 2001. It was constructed in 1935 to commemmorate the silver jubilee coronation of VII Nizam Mir Osman Ali Khan,” recalled P   of INTACH Telangana. Since Telangana came into being, the state legislative council was shifted to AP state legislative council located on the assembly premises.
 
 Finding fault with the government for tinkering with the royal hall every now and then, Anuradha said the building is one of the architectural masterpieces of Hyderabad and explained that royal portraits and paintings of the original 1936 Darbar Hall still adorn the main entrance of the Jubilee Hall.
 
 “The building has an elegant facade and at the centre is a small but high pedestal for the throne of Nizam in the shape of a ‘dastar’ (crown), which is clearly visible from all corners,” she recalled.
 
