GURUGRAM: Almost a year after National Green Tribunal (NGT) directed authorities of NCR cities to find ways to fight rising pollution in the region, a high-level meeting of state government officials held in capital on Thursday decided to carry out a mass   drive comprising beautification and landscaping of public spaces, intersections such as parks, green belts and spaces along roads and under flyovers across Gurugram.

 According to principal secretary Anand Mohan Sharan, the campaign will mainly focus on tree plantation, and it’s at the conceptual level now. “We have prepared a draft of the plan. We will have more clarity on the project cost and number of trees that will be planted within a fortnight,” Sharan said.
 
 A notice seeking Expressions of Interest (EoIs) will be floated by   soon, and interested parties can submit their applications, he said.
 
 The corporation has already allocated Rs 1,230 crore under the category of environmental work for the project in the 2018-19 budget. However, this amount will be used for construction of roads, bridges, drains and bundhs also, according to sources in MCG. 
 
 As part of the project, MCG will start raising saplings this month itself so that it will be able to plant them in coming monsoon. Even highway and metro pillars will go green with vertical gardens. Vertical gardens, according to environmental experts, serve the dual purpose of improving air quality by trapping dust and pollutants and absorbing heat from the surroundings to provide a cooling effect. The civic body also plans to cover bundhs, creeks, drains and embankments with plants. “The idea is to cut down on dust pollution with the help of plantation,” said Sharan.
 
 The city’s average annual pollution level has been increasing steadily over the past three years. According to Haryana State Pollution Control Board data, the annual average PM 2.5 level in the city increased to 133 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) in 2017 from 113 µg/m³ in 2016, up by around 17%. Also, Gurugram ranked 11th in the index of most polluted cities in the world, according to a database released by WHO. 
 
 The government will rope in private organisations such as multinational companies, NGOs, schools and other institutions for the project.
 
  These organisations will be allowed to adopt stretches in their vicinity where they will carry out plantation and maintain green cover.
 
 MCG will take up the responsibility of plantation and maintenance in areas where it could not ensure participation of private firms. The project also comprises a few infrastructure work such as fencing and installation of grilles, which will be carried out by MCG itself. The areas along the GMDA-owned roads will be developed and maintained by the development authority.
 
 NGT had asked the state urban local bodies (ULB) department to come up with a “green” plan to address the ever- increasing pollution levels in NCR cities more than a year back in one its orders in the case of Vardhman Kaushik versus the Union of India and others. 
 
 Talking about the plan, MCG commissioner Yashpal Yadav said, “To meet water requirements for these green spaces, we have decided to install 80-100 sewage treatment plants so that the plantation doesn’t put pressure on the potable water supply in the city.”
 
 
