ALLAHABAD: Dalit seer   faced so much caste discrimination in his life that he says that several times, he had “suicidal thoughts”. Prabhu will be ordained as the first Dalit ‘Mahamandaleshwar’ of Juna Akhara, considered the most revered Hindu monastic order, during the   next year.

 “I used to have suicidal thoughts when someone would use casteist words while addressing me. Not just one or two, the whole life was full of such shaming incidents,” he told TOI.
 
 Prabhu said it was this discrimination which pushed him into learning Sanskrit and ‘jyotish’ (astrology).
 
 Born as Kanhaiya Kumar Kashyap, the seer started working as a daily wage labourer at age 7 as the income of his vegetable-seller father was not sufficient for the education of his three siblings. 
 
 It was continuous humiliation that pushed him to astrology. “I wanted to know my fate. Questions on own and God’s existence drew me towards spiritualism. By teenage, I had read every second-hand book available on spirituality and astrology. I joined Jyotish Vigyan Parishad in Chandigarh in 2008 for a formal degree in astrology. A ‘Jyotish Visharad’ (postgraduate degree in astrology) in 2013 brought a drastic change in my life,” he said.
 
 The respect he got from his upper caste clients was liberating. But the relief was short-lived as some people owing allegiance to a political party threw him out of an ‘akhand hawan’ at   in Chandigarh in April 2016. “They had invited only Brahmins, but I was a Dalit. Then I renounced the world and became a saint by taking ‘diksha’ from my guru,” recalls Prabhu.
 
 He had to struggle again when he wanted to learn Vedic Sanskrit, till his ‘guru’ Jagatguru Panchnangiri came to his rescue. 
 
 The seer refuted claims from some segments that he was taken in the   to counter reports of Dalit atrocities. “Akharas are self-reliant. I have not seen any akhara seeking patronage from government. So the rumours of Juna Akhara taking me in its fold to counter reports of Dalit atrocities have no ground at all. ,” he added. 
 
 “Till date, I was working to remove caste-based discrimination from my ashram in Azamgarh. Now, I am working on a project to open a school in Lalganj tehsil where children of marginalised sections will be imparted education free of cost,” the seer said.
 
 
