VISAKHAPATNAM: ‘Ananda Lahari Abhyasana’, which is currently being implemented for classes I and II of 84 schools in Visakhapatnam district, will be extended to classes III, IV and V during 2018-19 academic year. The initiative was inaugurated by chief minister N   on a pilot basis in Chittoor district and was later extended to around 1,340 schools in the state in 2017-18 academic year for only classes I and II. Following its success, the school   department has proposed to cover the remaining classes at the   level.

 
 Modelled on the multi-grade and multi-level pedagogy (MGML) of Rishi Valley Institute, Chittoor, the student-centric initiative is integrated within the school system. Provided with a tablet, children are grouped according to their learning ability. They learn through group activity and self-learning with the teacher playing a facilitator’s role. Teachers were trained in the MGML pedagogy before launching the initiative. According to officials, RiVER-TIDE supplies both online and offline material and learning infrastructure to the schools. Two schools in every mandal of the state has been transformed into an   school. Initially, 52 schools were identified to train the master coaches — one school from each educational division of the state. After training the master coaches at the resource schools, training of teachers (two teachers from each of the 1,340 schools) concluded in August and September last year.
 
 Some of the schools, which adopted the ALA initiative in Visakhapatnam district, include   (MPPS) Mulagapudi, MPPS Gannavaram, MPPS Gollapalem, MPPS Sivalingapuram, MPPS Panchadarla, MPPS Rushikonda, etc.
 
 A senior official from AP Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan revealed, hundreds of students were re-enrolled in government schools from private schools after the introduction of ALA. “With the introduction of the ALA system, absenteeism has significantly dropped and children are excited to come to school. It has drawn wide appreciation for introducing technology that was earlier seen as a prerogative of urban and private schools,” said the official.
 
