Twelve Sundays of fun and fitness came to a musical end at Scheme Road at Race Course here on Sunday. The last day of the second edition of Happy Streets saw Savera, a city-based Carnatic progressive fusion band, making the crowd move their hips to A R   tracks such as Dil Se Re and Andha Arabic Kadal Oram.

 S Pranesh, who led the band formed in 2015, said in April last they had reformed the band and started performing what they call progressive Carnatic rock music. “Initially, we started performing at cafes and events. Now, we have released three songs on our own. We plan to release one song every month,” he said.
 
 The venue as usual saw fitness training sessions such as aerobics and Zumba, among others. The training, which involves workouts in several stages, would help burn calories easily, said fitness trainer J S Akilesh. “We had workouts such as jumping, push ups, weight lifting in nine stations,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, a group of people in black and guy fawkes masks grabbed the attention of the crowd. Volunteers from the Humane Animal Society, they held tablets and mobile phones playing videos of how animals were treated in dairy, leather and meat industries. “This display is called   and is done worldwide. It is being done in 38 cities, including Chennai, Mumbai, Pune and Jaipur. The idea behind wearing masks is to keep away human identities and project the animals’ identities,” V  , a volunteer said.
 
 In the past 12 weeks of Happy Streets, there were events ranging from traditional games to kolam competitions to pet walk that were a hit among the participants.
 
 Traditional games such as pambaram, gilli dhanda, undi villu, goli gundu were part of Happy Streets for four weeks. The games were held by www.nattumarunthukadai.com. B  , the founder of the enterprise said they focussed on everything connected with heritage from traditional games to siddha medicines to earthenware.
 
 The kolam competition held as part of women’s special week on the eighth week saw contestants vying with each other to draw complicated patterns. The day also featured fireless cooking techniques.
 
 The pet’s day on the ninth week saw ramp walk for dogs, besides a session on pet maintenance.
 
 
