LUDHIANA: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday filed chargesheets in the killings of   followers Satpal Sharma, his son Ramesh Kumar and Shiv Sena Punjab labour wing leader Durga Gupta, in the special   court of Anshul Berry at Mohali.

 Whereas Satpal Sharma and his son Ramesh Kumar were shot dead at Naam Charcha Ghar at Jageda of Ludhiana district on February 25, 2017, Durga Gupta was shot at on the evening of April 23 while he was standing at Lalehri Chowk in Khanna.
 
 The agency has chargesheeted 15 people, including British national Jagtar Singh Johal under Sections 302 (murder), 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 379 (theft), 416 (cheating by personation) and Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Sections 16, 17, 18, 18A, 18B, 20, 21 and 23 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Sections 25 and 27 of the Arms Act.
 
 These include people who sold or facilitated the sale of weapons to the accused to carry out the killings/ attempted killings. Other than Jagtar Singh Johal, others named in the chargesheet are   Shera, Ramandeep Singh Canadian, Dharminder Singh Guggni, Anil Kumar alias Kala, Amaninder Singh alias Mindu, Manpreet Singh alias Mani, Ravipal Singh alias Bhunda, Pahad Singh, Parvez alias Farru, Malook Tomar, Harmeet Singh alias Happy alias PhD alias Doctor (suspected to be in Pakistan), Gurjinder Singh alias Shastri (suspected to be in Italy), Gursharanbir Singh alias Gurusharan Singh Wahiwala alias Pehalwan (suspected to be in the UK), and Gurjant Singh Dhillon (suspected to be in Australia).
 
 The investigating agency has already sought the discharge of Taljit Singh alias Jimmy claiming no evidence had emerged against him during the investigations.
 
 During investigation, it was found that killings of Satpal, Ramesh and Gupta were part of trans-national conspiracy hatched by senior leadership of the Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF), said the NIA.
 
 “Eight incidents of targeted killings/ attempted killings were executed as part of this conspiracy between January 2016 and October 2017 in Punjab. All the persons targeted belonged to certain specific communities and organizations. The objective of the conspiracy was to destabilize the law and order situation in Punjab and to revive the fledgling terrorism in the state,” the agency claimed.
 
 “It was found that the conspiracy had its footprints in several countries including, Pakistan, UK, Australia, France, Italy and the UAE. As part of the conspiracy, large amounts of funds were supplied through Italy, Australia and the UK to the perpetrators of the killings/ attempted killings through Hardeep Singh and Ramandeep Singh,” said the NIA.
 
 
