 and her businessman hubby   have been setting major #relationshipgoals for many after they got married. The latest update from the couple on social media — with Sonam adopting Anand’s name almost immediately after their wedding and then Anand adding the initial ‘S’ to his on Thursday — had many gushing over the gesture. We asked newly married   celebs what they think of it. Here's what they had to say...

 ‘It’s admirable that an Indian man has added the first letter of his wife’s name to his own! What a great love story! Kudos to Anand for professing his love to his wife in this unique way! Sonam must have loved it and felt proud of her husband. Sonam too is writing her name as  , and I respect her choice. Though Subhashree introduces herself as  , she has retained her maiden surname post marriage. I am fine with it. To me what matters is how much she loves me and nothing more!’
 — Raj Chakrabarty, director
 
 
 ‘I have nothing much to say on this as it is an individual decision. Sonam and Anand have their own way of showing love for each other. If they are happy, who are we to judge? Sreeja, my wife, started using my 
 surname by choice after we got 
 married. It was her decision alone and 
 I respect that’
 —  , actor
 
 ‘Both Anand and Sonam decided that after marriage they will use each other’s initials or surnames; they did it and are happy about it. So, if they are happy, we can only rejoice. Chandrani and I recently got married and she has decided to use her maiden surname and I am extremely happy about it. To me what matters is 
 compatibility between a couple and surnames have nothing to do with it. Having said that, anyone is welcome to usher in a change’
 — Dibyendu Mukherjee, musician
 
 ‘I just loved the way Anand Ahuja added ‘S’ to his name after getting married to Sonam Kapoor. Hats off to the man. Why is a woman always coaxed and cajoled to use her husband’s surname after 
 marriage? Why is she not allowed to decide for herself? My wife,  , uses her maiden surname and I totally support her decision’
 — Gaurav Chakrabarty, actor
 
 
 
 
