NASHIK: The state government is planning to send vegetables and fruits by air cargo from Nashik’s   to the seven states in north eastern part of the country.

 
 The government has entered into talks with their counterparts in these seven states — Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland and   — for dispatching the vegetables and fruits grown in the district.
 
 “The air cargo operations from Ozar Airport to these seven states are likely to start within the next six months,” sources in  , a joint venture between   and Container Corporation of India Ltd (CONCOR), said on Monday.
 
  is a major production centre of several vegetables and fruits. The district supplies about 750 tonne of vegetables, including 250 tonne of onions, to Mumbai on a daily basis. Another 200 tonne of different types of vegetables are supplied to different cities in Gujarat.
 
 “It is going to be a win-win situation for the farmers of Nashik and consumers in these north eastern states. While the farmers will find new markets for their products and get the right prices, the consumers of these states will get fresh vegetables and fruits at competitive price,” the official added.
 
 According to him, at present there is infrastructure is the major issue in the north eastern states and vegetables are costly.
 
 Apart from vegetables, Nashik is known for producing grapes and onions at large. Over 1 lakh tonne of grapes are exported from the district to European and non-European countries every year. Moreover, the district contributes 80% of total onion export from the country.
 
 Halcon has set up the Inland Container Depot (ICD) and air complex adjacent to Ozar airport. The facility at ICD and air cargo complex comprises warehousing, integrated packing center for perishables, cold storage, screening, comprehensive ground handling services for airlines, CCTV surveillance, bar-coding, labelling and customs clearance facilities.
 
 The pack-house at the ICD and air cargo complex is used to grading and packing of vegetables for export purposes. 
 
