NEW DELHI: A special court, while sentencing a rapist to 14 years in jail, observed that “in a country which guarantees right to equality to all its citizens, it is unfortunate that it is the woman...who is the victim of sexual assault/rape...is subjected to social stigmatisation.”

 The court added that “the woman becomes a laughing stock...and is forced to make compromises in all spheres of life. The victim is often shunned by one and all, even close relatives, left to lead a life of isolation”.
 
 While taking a decision on the case of a minor’s rape by the convict, the court said such instances leave a permanent scar on the survivor.
 
 “The convict was an adult of 22 years of age at the time he committed the crime...having a thinking mind and therefore ravishing a helpless and naive 11-and-a-halfyear-old victim only to satisfy his lust, speaks volumes of his perversity,” said Protected of Children Against Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act judge Seema Maini.
 
 The convict was the survivor’s neighbour. On December 30, 2015, the survivor was on her way home when the convict took her to his room on the pretext of showing it to her.
 
 The police claimed that the man abducted, gagged and raped the minor. She was threatened not to disclose her ordeal to anyone, but she later told her sister about it.
 
 “I was washing my bloodstained clothes after getting home. My sister saw me and insisted that I tell her what had happened. Then I told her about the entire incident. My sister went to the accused’s house to ask him why he had done such a thing, but he was not there. She then reported the matter to the police,” read the survivor’s statement.
 
 Claiming innocence, the man said the survivor was friends with him and when the girl’s family came to know about it, they framed him in the case. He also said he never had sexual relations with the girl.
 
 Additional public prosecutor Neeta Gupta argued that the survivor has categorically identified the accused to be the culprit and had also clearly described the assault.
 
 Appearing for the convict, amicus curiae   contended that the survivor used to call the accused on his cellphone and her family had objected to their friendship, which resulted in the case.
 
  arguments, the court found the man guilty of rape and abduction. However, saying that the provision under Indian Penal Code was more stringent than the POCSO Act, it awarded 14 years to the man for raping the minor under IPC and fined Rs 40,000. The girl was awarded Rs 3 lakh towards her welfare and rehabilitation by the court that felt that no amount could compensate her loss.
 
