Nagpur: Although dead, controversial spiritual guru Krupalu Maharaj alias Ramkrupalu Lalitprasad Tripathi, has been not been granted any relief by the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court over charges of sexually exploiting his disciples.  The high court, however, abated the charges against the Maharaj, who had set up many big ashrams in India and the United States, due to his death on November 15, 2013. Delivering a judgment last week, a division bench comprising justices Bhushan Gavai and Murlidhar Giratkar maintained that two girls, who were the disciples of the Maharaj, had “voluntarily kept physical relations with the accused Maharaj”.  The court acquitted Maharaj’s acquaintances — Neelam Chourasiya and Saraswati Yadav — who were charged with abetting the victims to maintain sexual relations with the accused. “It’s not in dispute that Maharaj died in November 2013 and as such, appeals stand disposed of as abated insofar he was concerned. The main charges of rape were against the deceased. There was allegation against the other accused that they abetted the victims to have close relations with him,” the judges said, while dismissing appeals on merits against other respondents.  The case against Maharaj, having massive following in north India, was filed by the Maharashtra government in 2005, to challenge a Nagpur Sessions Court order. Cases of kidnapping were lodged against Maharaj and his acquaintances in 1991 following complaint lodged by the girls’ parents with Dhantoli police station.  The parents claimed that their daughters ran away from home and went to the Maharaj’s ashram at Mangadh in Uttar Pradesh. They alleged that the Maharaj had sexually exploited their daughters, who attended his discourses regularly. The case led to uproar in the city and subsequently, offences were registered the respondents. After medical examination of victims and completion of investigations, charge-sheets were filed before the JMFC, which in turn, committed the case to the sessions court. After commencement of trial, material witnesses were examined on charges framed against the three accused. The additional sessions judge acquitted all of them in 2005. The government then challenged the verdict by filing criminal appeals in the high court. Additional public prosecution Sushil Ghodeswar appeared for the prosecution, while AS Manohar pleaded for respondents. 