NEW DELHI: Chief election commissioner O P Rawat on Friday declined comment on the Delhi high court order setting aside the presidential notification disqualifying 20   from Delhi for having held ‘office of profit’, saying that the poll body was yet to get a certified copy of the order. Sources however indicated that   may soon review the order in detail and take a call on rehearing the case and allowing oral arguments by respondent MLAs, as directed by the high court.

 In all likelihood, fresh oral hearings on merits of the ‘office of profit’ charge will be held, even though the other option of appealing against the Delhi   order technically exists. 
 
 When asked by TOI for a reaction to HC’s observations and EC’s next course of action, CEC Rawat said: “EC does not comment on court orders. We will examine the order once we receive its certified copy, and then take any further call,” he said. 
 
 If the case is heard again to allow the oral submissions, proceedings may stretch well into the twilight period of the current Delhi assembly. Hearings in ‘office of profit’ cases are known to last several months. Interestingly, the case here involves not a single MLA but 20 legislators. 
 
 Meanwhile, two former CECs — S Y Quraishi and H S Brahma — that TOI spoke on Friday concurred that it is but fair judicial practice to allow all parties sufficient opportunity to be heard while deciding a case. “When multiple hearings were held on the question of maintainability, why could the MLAs not be heard during actual disposal of the ‘office of profit’ case? ” Quraishi said.
 
 Brahma too stressed that the principles of natural justice demanded that a fair opportunity was given to all parties to a case to make oral arguments and counter-arguments, prior to pronouncement of verdict.
 
 Another ex-CEC who did not want to be named had a different take. “As I understand from EC’s opinion forwarded to the President, the MLAs were reportedly resorting to delaying tactics. The EC may have decided the case to beat the delaying tactics,” he said.
 
 “The EC must use this as a test case and appeal against the HC order,” he suggested.
 
 
