BENGALURU: The Janata Dal (Secular)-Congress combine to assume power in Karnataka can hope for better chances of survival. Reason: the   runs in the DNA of many leaders on both sides. 

 At least a dozen senior Congress leaders, who won the May 12 elections, including the newly appointed coordination committee chairman and former chief minister Siddaramaiah, are originally from the Janata Parivar, whose offshoot is Janata Dal (Secular). Among the other victorious Congress leaders whose roots are in Janata Dal are RV Deshpande, R Roshan Baig, S Ramesh Kumar,  , Satish Jarkiholi, Amaregowda Bayyapura, BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan and Akhanda Srinivasamurthy.
 
  Many of them admit to a sense of deja vu in the new alliance. When the two parties first joined hands in 2004, there were very few Janata Parivar leaders in Congress, including Deshpande, Ramesh Kumar, Baig and Krishna Byre Gowda. The alliance collapsed in two years, with JD(S) leaders accusing Congress of trying to break the party. 
 
 The situation now is different as there are more former Janata Parivar leaders, like Siddaramaiah, in the upper echelons of Congress. "At the outset it looks like a marriage of convenience, but the alliance would not be at odds considering the common style of politics the Congress and JD(S) adopt and that most leaders were once colleagues. Significantly, the so-called original Congressmen look more open to the friendship and seniors like   and DK Shivakumar are leading by example," said L Vasudevamurthy, a political watcher.
 
 The Kumaraswamy-Shivakumar animosity was what had contributed to the 2006 alliance collapse. JD(S) later joined hands with  .
 
 "Unlike in the alliance with BJP, JD(S) leaders will not feel like they are in company of strange bedfellows. Besides the secular ideology, the common moorings of many leaders on both sides are a binding factor this time," said BL Shankar, Congress vice-president, who was once an close aide of JD(S) chief HD Deve Gowda.
 
  Shankar, however, admitted that bringing together grassroots workers of the two parties is a bigger challenge. "It all depends on the top leadership of both parties how they handle the seat-sharing negotiations in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls," he said. 
 
  "At a time when there are many Janata Parviar leaders in Congress, we, too, have senior Congress leaders in our ranks. This will only strengthen the combine amid small differences that are bound to crop up," said AT Ramaswamy, a senior JD(S) legislator. 
 
 
