Want the latest buzz on the gossip front? A peep into the lives of the rich and famous? A wind of Chennai’s best-kept secrets? Writer, activist, anchor, and queen bee   fills you in with all that and then some in this column 

 
 Tthe latest buzz in town is about this newly married actress who refused to go for her friend’s ramp walk because she was insecure that her husband may fall for the young man’s delicate charms. Yes! Her close friends reveal that the actress refused to turn up despite confirming as she wasn’t too comfortable with the brewing friendship between her hunky husband and her best buddy. An idle mind is a devil’s workshop! Perhaps, her friends who squeal should tell her as it is. 
 
 
 Why is the bubbly Ineya missing in action? Designer sources reveal that despite having clothes ready, she hasn’t even come for trials as she has gained weight. She’s maintaining a low profile till she knocks off the extra pounds, and also during this time, she’s focusing on starting her own event management company.
 
 
 Sivakarthikeyan’s cinematic success and star value is too well established to talk about it all the time. But it’s his house that is the best-kept secret. Built on 11 grounds or more, his palatial 3-storeyed home is also constantly guarded by four burly men, and the local realtors on   reveal that he has acquired land adjoining his home to build a state-of-the-art, cross-fit gym.
 
 
 olaf  , the Parisian artiste, whose love for Indian gemstone art is well-known, has a few other passions. From working out with hunky trainers to remaining fit to dining at gourmet restaurants... and the best of them all showing people around the rarest and unseen culture sites of Pondy. His latest obsession, though, seems to be his vigorous workouts.
 
 
 Manju Mudit, who was till recently known to many as a counsellor and a social worker is a pro at putting guest lists together. Instead of opting for regular run-of-the-mill PR agencies, big brands, and especially luxury brands prefer to rope in Manju to do their launches and events. Shy and not interested in the limelight, this lady, whose got a fan following, is just what the city needed. Thank God, her guest list leaves out the wine-crazy free loaders. 
 
 
 Healthcare industry’s queen bee, we hear, has a maid who’s well-trained in massages and therapy, for her sore joints. The lady tags her maid along all over the world to deal with her aches and pains. Sources say the maid was sent for special training to a well-known massage centre in Mysore.
 
 
 It seems there’s romance brewing between a fading male designer and a well-known young photographer. The two, who met during an event two years ago, are constantly planning their next date it seems, and it usually happens to be a social event, after which the photographer drops this baby-faced spectacled designer home. The photographer’s wife, too, we hear, has her guard up as tongues have been wagging. 
 
 (Views expressed above are the author’s own) 
 
 
 
  
  
 
