The 
  of the 
  week is celebrated as the 
  The day is celebrated on February 9 and as the name suggests, this is one day to express your love with Chocolates. If you wish to win someone's heart or want someone to know exactly how you feel about them, chocolates are definitely the most perfect  .“What use are cartridges in battle? I always carry chocolate instead.”

 These words by the famous playwright   reinforces our belief in chocolates—there is no love that chocolates cannot win and no pain that it cannot heal! This brings us to the most important day for all chocolate lovers—9th February, the third day of the Valentine’s Week which is also celebrated as  .
 
 Irrespective of whether you are engaged or not, young or old, this day can be celebrated by all. Indeed, people of all age group can observe this day with great enthusiasm. Celebrated by gifting chocolates to friends, family and loved ones, Chocolate Day is perhaps one of the sweetest days of the Valentine’s Week. But this day comes with its own set of hurdles: How to choose the best chocolate or gift? Fret not, here are a few suggestions to help you choose the best chocolates.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Given the fact that chocolates come in all shapes, sizes, flavours and textures, choosing the best one is not a child’s play. Before you start your journey to find the perfect chocolate, first you need to understand the taste of the person you are planning to gift the chocolates to. Some might like dark and bitter chocolates, whereas others might prefer the sweeter variants. Once you get an idea, you are then ready to start the hunt for the perfect chocolate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 If the person likes dark and bitter chocolates, you should look for ones that have higher cocoa content. Remember that higher the amount of cocoa, darker, stronger and bitter will be the chocolate. Some chocolates have over 90 per cent of cocoa, but before gifting anyone such dark chocolates, make sure that the person have tasted it before. Also, dark chocolates are known for its health benefits—these are powerhouse of antioxidants and are known to fight against free radicals in the body.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Unlike dark chocolate, milk chocolates were traditionally made from chocolates having low cocoa content with added ingredients like sugar and milk products. The taste of milk chocolate is lighter and sweeter than dark chocolate and this can be the perfect choice for a person who has a sweet tooth. 
 
 
 Interestingly, the world of chocolates is not limited to just dark and milk chocolates. We also have chocolates with different flavours like mint, caramel, citrus and others. If you are looking for chocolates with textures, he market is flooded with different varieties that come loaded with nuts, dry fruits, wafers and others.
 
  
  
 
 
 This variety of chocolate is strictly for adults. Chocolates with liquor (alcohol) filled centers not only taste good but are a sight to behold—these come in many shapes like miniature bottles, hearts or something as simple as a cube. However, do not forget to store these in a cooler temperature because these tend to melt easily. 
 
 
 
 Besides gifting your loved one chocolates, there are so many other options that you can explore. If your   loves perfume, you can always choose a perfume with warm notes of chocolate. In fact, you can take a few classes on chocolate making and surprise your partner with hand-made chocolates on that day.
 
 
 How about selecting a few movies that center around chocolate? The movies ‘Charlie and the Chocolate Factory’ and ‘Chocolat’ can a part of your gift box set. If your partner loves to cook, you can gift him or her a book of chocolate recipes.
 
 Remember, no matter what kind of chocolates or gifts you choose, it is the gesture that matters the most. And when you have something as sweet as a piece of chocolate for your partner, nothing an go wrong. Happy Chocolate Day!
 
 
