MUMBAI: A  , standardising the quality of roads, and holding contractors and civic officers liable for bad roads are some of the recommendations of a two-judge committee of the Bombay high court. 

 Last November, the high court had set up the potholes committee comprising Justices K R Shriram and   to monitor repair and maintenance of roads. 
 
 In a three-page report, the judges have put down 18 measures as interim recommendations. A division bench of Justices Abhay Oka and Pradeep Deshmukh, which is hearing a suo motu petition on bad roads, asked the state to clarify if the government could direct civic authorities across   to implement measures to ensure roads were properly repaired and maintained. 
 
 “This is a wider issue as the costs come out of the public exchequer,” said the bench. 
 
 The state has to respond on February 16. Advocate Jamshed Mistry, who was appointed amicus curiae or friend of the court, said the onus should finally be on the civic officers who have a duty to maintain roads in good condition. 
 
 Advocate Kamal Khata, who was representing HC lawyers, said the   redressal mechanism in the form of an app did not fully comply with the court’s earlier orders. 
 
 “It is time-consuming to upload photos and other details in the new BMC app. Also, there is no mechanism to find out what happened to the complaints or if any action was taken,” said the advocate. 
 
 In its interim report, the committee has recommended aseries of measures, including acentralised 24x7 pothole grievance portal, where complaints by the citizens can be forwarded to the appropriate agencies. “This is because the public at large is not aware which road falls under which authority. 
 
 Using the portal, one controlling authority can forward the complaint to the proper forum,” the committee said. Besides standardising quality of road and road works, the panel has recommended using the services of traffic police, drivers and conductors of public buses and peons and sweepers to identify bad patches. It also sought contractors and civic officials to be held accountable for bad roads and potholes.
 
