KOLKATA: West Bengal governor   has taken serious note of complaints pouring in from districts on the unabated violence in block offices during filing of nominations for the Bengal rural polls. The   has asked state election commissioner Amarendra Singh to take all possible measures to guarantee peace in the rural polls.

 During his meeting at Raj Bhavan on Wednesday, Singh told the governor that the state election commission had already intimated the state government about the need for central paramilitary forces. 
 
 In an earlier meeting, the governor also asked chief secretary Moloy De and home secretary   to ensure that candidates can file nomination papers across districts, with particular reference to South 24 Parganas, Bankura and Birbhum. According to the state election commission (SEC), till Wednesday, Trinamool had filed 3,629 nominations (including gram panchayat, panchayat samiti and zilla parishad) while BJP had filed 2,316 nominations, and other parties together filed 1,651 nominations.
 
 Trinamool secretary general   will be calling on the governor on Thursday to apprise him of the ground reality. “The governor is going on an overdrive without verifying the facts. The opposition has raised a clamour from the second day of filing of nomination in a bid to keep the state election commission under pressure. State BJP leaders are quoting the governor, which is unfair. We will meet the governor tomorrow and also the state election commissioner,”   said. 
 
 Clashes between political parties in the run-up to panchayat polls have become a political hot potato in Bengal, with opposition parties knocking on the doors of the   while keeping up the pressure on SEC. BJP leader Mukul Roy staged a dharna at the SEC office on Wednesday while party activists demonstrated in front of the office. “I told the state election commissioner that we are being denied the right to contest in rural polls, which is a fundamental right. Our party has moved the Supreme Court on this ground,” Roy said.
 
 In a counter-offensive, Trinamool leaders called on Union home minister Rajnath Singh in Delhi on Wednesday to complain against the governor going on an “overdrive” over rural polls when things were under control. A 20-member Trinamool MPs’ delegation, led by its Lok Sabha party leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay and Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien, met Singh to put on record their “unease” over the governor’s “interference”. They took exception to the governor giving directions to the chief secretary and home secretary without “taking the elected state government into confidence”.
 
 Constitutional experts, however, see nothing wrong in the governor calling senior state officials or meeting the state election commissioner once the rural poll process is on because the Constitution, under Article 243K, vests in him the power “to make available to the state election commission such staff as may be necessary for the discharge of the functions of the SEC”. However, the state Act specifies that the arrangement has to be done in consultation with the state government.
 
 
