LUCKNOW:   on Tuesday passed a stringent   to control organsied crime amid walkout of Opposition members, who term it a "draconian" legislation. Chief minister   re-introduced the UP Control of Organised Crime Bill (UPCOCB) in assembly on Tuesday as legislative council, where ruling   doesn't have a majority, rejected the bill even after being cleared by the lower house earlier this month. 

 Formulated on the lines of Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA), the proposed legislation seeks to curb organsied crime and deal strictly with those trying to foment terror or dislodge the government forcibly or through violent means. It also seeks to act sternly against those using explosives or firearms or any other violent means or damaging life and property or involved in anti-national or destructive activities.
 
 
 
 
 Introducing the bill, CM Yogi said that the recent busting of terror funding racket in the state underlines the importance of the bill. He said the Act with help the government to tighten noose around those involved in spurious liquor, drugs, medicines apart from those indulging in anti-national and terror activities. The opposition members alleged that the bill has been brought to crush the voice of politicians, farmers, social workers and journalists and said it was against the constitutional right of freedom of expression.
 
 Later, the entire opposition staged a walkout terming the bill as a "black law".
 
 In the absence of the opposition, the House passed the bill by voice vote after the chief minister highlighted its salient features and sought to allay the apprehensions of the opposition parties that the new law could be misused against them.
 
 The bill will give more teeth to law enforcement agencies to control organised crime like land and mining mafia, kidnapping industry and crime syndicates in the state as well as to break the politician-criminal nexus.
 
 It proposes that properties amassed through organised crime will be taken over by the government with the permission of the court during the course of investigation. The property will be confiscated by the state government after conviction.
 
 To break the nexus between criminals and politicians, the draft law envisages special power to the police. In a big relief to investigators, it also proposes to extend the period of filing charge sheets from 90 days to 180 days.
 
 The state government will also establish a special force and UPCOCA courts to expedite hearing of cases filed under the provisions of the new law. The state home secretary will personally monitor cases lodged under UPCOCA.
 
 The draft provides for punishments from minimum three years' imprisonment to capital punishment. The provision of capital punishment will also extend to those involved in illicit liquor trade. The draft Bill also provides for fines ranging from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 25 lakh. To prevent possible misuse of the law, the bill says UPCOCA can be slapped only after recommendation of commissioner or IG-rank officials.
 
