Ludhiana: A woman was killed and 33 others received serious burns after an LPG cylinder exploded in a house at Samrat Colony, Giaspura, on Thursday morning. The injured included five minors and 10 women. The condition of at least 12 persons was critical.

 The deceased was identified as Sunita, 40, wife of house owner Ashok Yadav, 58. Ashok, his daughters — Kajal (19) and Pooja (20) — and son Raj (13) were critically injured.
 
 The injured have been admitted to different hospitals in Ludhiana. Two persons have been also referred to PGI, Chandigarh.
 
 It all started when Sunita went to the kitchen around 6.40am to make tea and breakfast for the family. Bhushan Singh, an area resident, said as she lit the gas lighter, the cylinder pipe caught fire due to leakage. As Sunita’s clothes caught fire, the family raised an alarm, attracting people’s attnetion.
 
 People from neighbouring houses thronged the house with water buckets and sand to help the family. Though family members managed to bring the leaking cylinder outside the kitchen, resumption of power supply (that was not there since the morning) triggered a blast in the cylinder.
 
 The explosion led to the collapse of a wall in the room. The main door of the house also was damaged in the process.
 
 Another area resident Joginder Pal said family members and others inside the house received serious burns. He said the neighbours had come to help the family but they too became victims.
 
 Meanwhile, the injured were taken to the civil hospital with the help of PCR and other police officials who had arrived at the spot in their private vehicles.
 
 The fire had been controlled by the time fire brigade department reached the spot. The area people and family members of injured condemned the fire brigade for reaching late at the site.
 
 Amandeep Singh Brar, station house officer, Focal Point police station, said, “PCR cops first got the information and reached the spot after conveying the same to the police station. I along with police party reached the spot. But by that no ambulance had reached the accident spot, therefore we decided to take the injured in our police and other private vehicles to different hospitals.”
 
 Senior medical officer Dr Geeta said the entire staff was deputed for the treatment of these patients and those who were serious were rushed to CMCH. She said some of the injured were referred to ESI Hospital as requested.
 
 Sunita succumbed to her injuries in the evening.
 
 MLA Surinder Dawar after meeting the injured said all patients would be provided treatment free of cost as per the directions of chief minister Amarinder Singh.
 
 The Explosion
 
 At 6.40am, Sunita, wife of house owner Ashok Yadav, lights up the gas to prepare tea and breakfast
 
 As gas was leaking from the cylinder, its pipe catches fire
 
 Sunita’s clothes catches fire too in the process 
 
 Family members raise an alarm, attracting neighbours’ attention
 
 People from neighbouring house come with water and sand buckets to help put off the fire
 
 The family members bring the leaking cylinder outside the kitchen
 
 Electricity that was cut off since morning suddenly resumed at around 6.45am leading to a blast in the cylinder
 
 Five members of the family and 29 neighbours were injured in the blast
 
 As ambulances fail to arrive, police officials take the injured in PCR and private vehicles
 
 Battling for life
 
 As many as 14 people were admitted to CMC Hospital out of which Sunita and her son Raj sustained 100 and 90% burns, respectively, and Surinder Kumar, Aganya Devi, Shubham, Shivam, Pawan and Ashok sustained 70 to 80% burns. Others who are under treatment at CMCH included Pooja, Kajal, Meena Devi, Prince Kumar and Anju Devi have received burns between 40 to 60%. Two residents — Ashok Kumar and Dharminder — were shifted to PGI Chandigarh. They had received burns between 35 and 45%. One woman Shashi Singh was referred to Oswal hospital with 57% burns. The rest of the injured were under treatment at civil and ESI hospitals.
 
 Ill-planned area
 
 The locality where the incident happened on Thursday morning is developed in ill-planned manner. As most of the migrant population resides in the area, small houses had been constructed in around 50 square yards. The houses share walls. The area is densely populated which is why the number of injured is more.
 
 
