`Madurai: It’s a nameless ‘koozh’ shop on wheels, but one many would have spotted at the same place for the past six years. Suffice it to say that it is one of the most soughtafter roadside eateries by the health-conscious foodies of Madurai.

 No sooner does the clock strike 8 in the morning, S Manikandan is ready to start distributing his millet porridge, made predominantly with ragi and pearl millets, to his customers. Many troop in after their early morning walk and wait patiently for him to give them that small potful of the porridge. As one regular said, “It fills the stomach and keeps away fat.” The little shop is situated on Vinayagar Nagar main road, opposite to the Madurai district court in K K Nagar, adjoining the petrol bunk.
 
 Manikandan says it was his uncle who set up the shop here many years ago serving idlies and a little porridge. “But in recent years, people have become very health conscious and many prefer the koozh to idly, so I started selling just koozh along with ten types of accompaniments,’’ he said. Open from 8 am to 3 pm every day, he sells about 200 litres of koozh of ragi, pearl millet and wheat. While a small ‘sembu’ pot of 500 ml capacity costs Rs 10, a parcel of 750 ml costs Rs 15. He offers ten types of side dishes to go with the porridge, including chopped onion, shallots, a variety of fries, pickle, raw mango and sun-dried vegetables like cluster beans or chillies soaked in buttermilk and then dried.
 
 His wife helps him with the preparation, which takes many hours, a reason why he cannot keep his shop open in the evening also. The koozh is prepared in the traditional method by soaking millet for hours and then grinding and cooking it. ``The porridge I serve may not be the tastiest food available, but still hundreds of people come to my shop daily. I return home after selling every drop of the 200 litres that I bring only because people are health conscious. So I don’t want to compromise on quality and only want to give them the best, the reason why the preparation takes time,’’ he said.
 
 One can see people come in cars and take away parcels on a regular basis. ``Though the same thing is sold in many parts of the city, this shop provides one of the best quality koozh. So I frequent it thrice a week,’’ said G Sudhakaran of Umatchikulam. Advocates and office-goers also make the regular customers at this joint. On hot summer days, Manikandan sells more while the rain causes a slight dip in sales. “But business is never dull,” says Manikandan.
 
 WHAT: Millet porridge
 
 WHERE: Koozh shop, Vinayagar Nagar main road
 
 WHEN: 8 am to 3 pm
 
 QUOTE: “In recent years, people have become very health conscious and many prefer the koozh to idly, so I started selling just koozh along with ten types of accompaniments.” -S Manikandan , Shop owner
 
 
