' ' has veteran actor  , who hails from Rajasthan and plays the role of  . Speaking on his experience in the show Karmveer says,"I have a very good experience in the show and it has been a pleasure working with the production house. The real hero of our show is the story. Obesity is something which almost every Indian family has and we all have faced this problem. And our protagonist   is someone who has taken this problem as a challenge. 75% of our village population can relate to this, specially people from North India they are glued to the show. I would like to mention about one person from the production house Ishtiyak Ahmed who has been a great help and support in the show." 

 Karmveer who hails from Udaipur, Rajasthan has an interesting background. He was a successful businessman and at the age of 45 he shifted his base from Rajasthan to Mumbai. He says,"I had a successful business till the time I lost all my money in the election which I contested. I lost my money and realized I need to find my base again. At the age of 45 I shifted my base to Mumbai, before that I have worked in 24 Rajasthani films and also I have received an award for the best villain category. But when I came to Mumbai no one was interested about my Rajasthani films. So I started from scratch in Mumbai and started hunting for TV shows. At the same point of time my son and my daughter were studying engineering and medical respectively, so it was more pressure on me. My wife asked me to come back to my place as she used to feel bad why I am struggling so much. But I have never lost hope and worked hard. I also started living in a paying guest accommodation. In Udaipur I used to have my own bungalow, car so for me it was a big contrast. But I sailed through and today I have got back my wealth in Rajasthan and also I have a proper set up in Mumbai. I want to become an inspirational story for many people who are depressed and they don't want to do anything. I want to tell them nothing is impossible."
 
 
