CHENNAI: The Lok Sabha polls are still a year away, scheduled to take place in May, 2019. However, the DMK and its ally,   have been shadow boxing over the past few days to keep the other on guard. 

 It has been thus ever since the visit of   chief minister and TRS president   to Chennai to meet DMK working president Stalin last Sunday. Despite denial, the third front option appears to looms large.
 
 The visit of former Union finance minister and ex-BJP leader,   along with disgruntled BJP MP Shatrugan Sinha to Chennai on Friday only added further fuel. "The democracy and the secular character of the country is under threat now," Yashwant Sinha said, with Stalin on his side. "All our objective is to defeat the communal BJP. The discussions are now about which parties will come together," Stalin said in a statement that night, while refraining from even naming Congress. parties. "Both KCR and Sinha were keen to bring the regional parties together. KCR's aim was to persuade regional parties was against giving away seats to allies (read Congress), given the favourable wind blowing towards them. Sinha, who saw an anti-Modi wave and more so in South, was keen to get the southern kitty together in one lot," said a source, privy to the discussions. "We have not committed to anything. But, more discussions will follow," said the DMK source.
 
 On the other, the Congress got VCK leader Thol Thirumavalavan to meet party president Rahul Gandhi, despite his hectic schedule of campaigning in Karnataka. After the meeting, the VCK leader voiced his support for a Congress-led alliance, even as TNCC president S Thirunavukkarasar reiterated that Congress is in firm alliance with the DMK. "Both DMK and Congress are tied together and we have to swim together. One cannot discount Congress and look at stitching an alliance especially for Lok Sabha polls, when there is unrest against BJP and Modi," a senior Congress leader, who did not wish to be named, told TOI.
 
 Analysts too feel the same. "I don't think DMK will ever commit the mistake of avoiding Congress in an alliance for Lok Sabha polls, despite negativity lurking both sides. In the present scenario, Congress is the best option for DMK in a Lok Sabha election in the present circumstances. A misunderstanding seems to have crept into the relationship between the two parties and that needs to be addressed," said political analyst M Kasinathan.
 
 
