PUNE: Construction of a road in   has infuriated residents, who claim the it was likely to damage the Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary. The group issued a press statement on Friday night, demanding that the ongoing work be stopped. 

 “Many citizens were invited to the road-breaking ceremony. A handful attended it expecting some improvement for Kalyaninagar. They were taken aback to realize that the   was an infructous exercise — a 400m road to nowhere — and even more insidiously destroying a significant tract of the Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary, which all of Kalyaninagar and Pune is trying to preserve and promote. This has been amply reported in the newspaper (sic),” stated the letter.
 
 According to residents, they were told the road was a part of the Shivne-Kharadi linking road incorporated in the last two issues of development plans, portions of which were being constructed as and when land was acquired. This activity is and will be ongoing, starting with the extension to   for about 400m.
 
 The group has urged the authorities to fund the road on the east end of South Avenue from   towards Kharadi. 
 
 According to residents, creating a road parallel to the central avenue extension (Adlabs chowk toward D Mart) with an interconnection or two would ease the traffic burden along the east and central avenues. It will directly connect many addresses to Aga Khan Bridge and Kalyaninagar. 
 
 “Residents and bird lovers are fighting to save the bird park. Government authorities should explore some other option for this road. The construction should be such that it will help the commuters while not creating any problems to the bird park,” said Purnima Joshi, one of the residents. 
 
 “The park is important for its bio-diversity and it must be preserved. The new road which is going to be built will damage the park. It will also create trouble for the birds coming to the park,” said a resident, requesting anonymity. 
 
 The group of residents met the local MLA and submitted the letter outlining their concerns. 
 
 
