NEW DELHI/ VISAKHAPATNAM: Nearly 33.5 lakh people living in urban areas have given their feedback on the status of cleanliness and sanitation in their cities and towns during the   across the country, which ended on Saturday. This is the biggest ever survey in urban areas.

 The ranking of 4,041 cities and towns on   is likely to be out next month. Among the states, maximum number of 5.9 lakh people have given their feedback in Rajasthan, followed by Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh, data available in public domain revealed. Among all municipal areas, Visakhapatnam recorded the maximum responses at 1.6 lakh, followed by South Delhi and Indore.
 
 Citizens’ feedback is one of the key parameters in the ranking of cities. It enjoys 35% weightage in the scale. Citizens feedback includes face to face interviews, interactive voice response, telephone calls and responses that came through the  . Citizens have also given their feedback using the   mobile application.
 
 Data updated till Friday shows that almost 65% of the citizen feedback have come through the Swachhta survey portal. A high number of urban citizens are participating which is being seen as a sign of the mission’s growing popularity. “This is an encouraging trend. To ensure that the no person gives more than one feedback, we have followed the one time password mechanism.,” a survey official said.
 
 He added different municipalities have put emphasis on different modes of feedback mechanism and that is the reason why some cities have got more feedback than others. What remains to be seen is whether more feedback would prove a boon or bane for the municipal bodies that are working hard to secure top ranking in the list of cleanest cities this year.
 
 According to sources, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation had sent about 15 lakh bulk text messages in a phased manner, appealing residents to participate in the survey. From creating videos and setting up hoardings across the city on Swachh Bharat Mission and the citizens feedback components, the civic body has left no stone unturned in getting top honours in this year’s survey.
 
 
 
