CHENNAI: When world over large airports have been thriving on   generated from commercial ventures like shops, spas, hotels and malls, poorly designed airport terminals, like the one in the city, have impacted Airports Authority of India’s (AAI) chances to make non-aeronautical revenue. 

  (AERA) has said that though Rs 2,000 crore were pumped in for the new terminals commissioned in 2013 for the Chennai airport, the percentage of space available for commercial utilisation is one of the lowest when compared to other airports in metros across the country.
 
 In response to the application filed by AAI to review and revise the user development fee at the airport, AERA said, “The authority is aware of the constraints in increasing the non-aeronautical area at Chennai airport due to lack of depth in the terminal building. However, in a metro city such as Chennai there is sufficient scope to allocate more space for non-aeronautical services.”
 
 AAI also considers shops inside terminals as aeronautical assets while AERA has said they are non-aeronautical assets. As per AAI’s calculation total commercial area is 7,236sqm. The percentage ratio of total usable area of the terminals and non-aeronautical space is 4.4%. 
 
 Sources said the Chennai airport generates approximately Rs 200 crore per year from commercial sources. This includes space rented out to food and beverages outlets, duty free shops and hangars. “There was criticism from firms on the size and area alloted for shops when the domestic and international terminals were opened. A lounge where alcohol is sold is located in a corner, far from the boarding gates. Passengers have to go in search of the outlets while in Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Dubai and Singapore, shops and eateries are positioned in such a way to capture the attention of travellers.” Consequently, the revenue generated by the airport per passenger is a meagre Rs 8 to Rs 10 while in other airports it is Rs 45 to Rs 50.
 
  Officials worried about the audits and processese involved are unable to propose commerical revenue generation plans. This is in contrast to the private airports where managers have the freedom to rope in the best in the industry. Another factor is Chennai is not in the list of 13 airports where city-side areas will be developed to give a boost to commercial revenue. For now, AAI is looking at freeing up space infront of the terminals where a multi-level car park can be built soon.
 
 
