Trichy: Philately as a hobby is becoming a trend among school students in Trichy. 

 Owing to the demand, Trichy Philatelists’ Association, with the support of the postal department, on Friday began a one-sheet philatelic exhibition, ‘OSPex -2018’, here to propagate the hobby of stamp collection among school students.
 
 The two-day exhibition is a first-of-its-kind initiative in Tamil Nadu, according to the organisers. Though only a minimum of 16-sheet collection (considered to be one frame) is accepted as an exhibit as per common standards, the organisers came up with the one-sheet experiment for the convenience of children.
 
 A total of 52 exhibits by school students are featured at OSPex -2018, which is being held at the head post office in the city.
 
 Each exhibit is based on a particular theme, some of which include ‘Actress Madhubala – The Marilyn Monroe of India,’ ‘Indian Cricket Legends,’ ‘Slogan Stamps’ and ‘Australian Stamp Collection’.
 
 Postal department officials and members of philatelists association stated that the hobby of stamp collection has considerably increased among children in the city, especially after ministry of communications, government of India introduced ‘SPARSH’ scheme last November.
 
 Through the scheme, students from Class VI to IX, are awarded annual scholarships of Rs 6,000 per annum (500 a month) based on a selection process, which includes quiz competition, written exam and showcasing their stamp collection. A total of 66 students from the state – with 10 from Trichy alone – are on this scholarship currently.
 
 According to senior superintendent of post office, Trichy division, R Ganapathi Swaminathan, many kids started philately deposit account in the post office over the past one year. “Through this scheme, we directly send newly released stamps to those who have created the account. The response for this from school students has been good,” he told TOI. 
 
 Class IX student, R Akhilesh, who is one of the 10 scholarship winners from Trichy, said, “Student philatelists are in constant touch and we even exchange stamps now and then."
 
 Secretary of Trichy Philatelists’ Association, J Raghubathy also echoed a similar point of view and added, “We want to create an environment in way that more students are attracted to the hobby of stamp collection. This experimental exhibition is a good start,” he said.
 
 
