GADCHIROLI: Two parties of C-60 commandos, under two experienced commanders, left their Pranhita headquarters in Aheri in south   and were zooming towards Bhamragarh late evening on April 21. They had specific information about a motley group of Maoists having assembled at a particular place.

 There was no sign of history in the making. Information from a regular source was processed by the senior officers like additional SP of Aheri, A Raja, additional SP (Operations) Hari Balaji and Gadchiroli SP Abhinav Deshmukh. When they ordered the commandos, groomed from the tribal district itself, to the place they expected nothing more than engaging with a handful of rebel cadres.
 
 Between 11pm and 11.30pm, however, complexion of the mission changed with when another piece of information reached the seniors through a chain of informers the forces had been cultivating for the last couple of years.
 
 “It appeared this information could yield to bigger success. The location (under three hillocks in Kasnasur-Boriya forest on the banks of Indravati river and it’s tributaries) was among the ones where Maoists were known to camp for over 24 hours as they considered it one of their safest havens,” said SP Deshmukh, one among the three MBBS graduates serving in Gadchiroli district at present, the other two being Balaji and additional SP (administration) Maheswar Reddy.
 
 “Just one month ago, we had conducted a detailed study of the place. GPS mapping was done in minute details. Topography of the location was studied meticulously incorporating maximum local geographic information,” said the SP.
 
 Shortly after midnight, Deshmukh, Balaji and Raja decided to divert the forces. “We diverted the two parties of commandos to the new location of Kasnasur-Boriya, abandoning the operation at Bhamragarh. It was about 12.30am then,” he said. “We knew sending just two parties to Kasnasur-Boriya would be a mistake. We had to have an additional party as the location was multi-dimensional and different from regular ones. The third party was created using the manpower of Tadgaon Armed Outpost and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). They were told to join the two other squads already moving towards Kasnasur-Boriya.”
 
 The senior officials drew up a plan of troops swooping down on ground zero from three sides.
 
 The cadres of at least four formations of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist), Perimili Local Organizational squads (LOS), Aheri LOS, Platoon 7 and Gatta LOS, had assembled at the base of three forested hillocks — Dodrimetta, Addametta and Kandametta — on the banks of Indravati River.
 
 Sources close to the cadres claimed the formations, under Divisional Committee Members (DVCM) Sainath and Shrinu and four other commanders, had come together to chart their course of action. Sainath, an expert on ‘action teams’ that operate on ‘shoot-and-scoot’ style in towns to eliminate targets, was to form a few such outfits for south Gadchiroli to target the members on his hit list. These are generally police informers, political figures or persons who have made some money. Some kidnapping and ransom plans were also to be discussed. Sainath, Shrinu and four other commanders would be among 33 dead in the encounter that began next morning.
 
 TOI has learnt from sources the second information was generated from Kasnasur village, around five kilometres from the spot, where some rebel cadres had come to attend the marriage function at the family of Shoma Madavi. A former Maoist-turned-home guard was the architect of the plan and had also generated much of intelligence.
 
 The three parties of C-60 commandos and CRPF jawans abandoned their vehicles near Tadgaon and took up the remaining 12-km journey on foot. In the stillness of night in the forest, noise of engines travels far. Three parties spread out and zeroed in on the camp site from different directions. They continued their walk in the dead of the night without halting for even water. Reaching the place just before day-break was crucial as they wanted to take positions before the cadres could realize they were surrounded. Night vision goggles came in handy for the pilot members of the troops who did not lit a torch or any other light as they strode towards the target.
 
 Two parties approached the base of the three hillocks where the cadres were camping from either side. Some men climbed to the elevated lands for getting vantage positions. Another party took position on the opposite side of Indravati to ensure the Naxalites would have no escape route even by crossing the river. The rebels generally post sentries to keep a watch but this time they failed to spot the advancing troops.
 
 Deshmukh, who later briefed DIG, Naxal Range, Ankush Shinde and chief of Anti-Naxal Operations (ANO) Sharad Shelar on the operation, said the homework done earlier and analysis shared with everyone from commanders to the constable at the newly created C-60 training centre helped. “The commandos knew all possible escape routes, sentry points and details down to the height of each rock, tree, elevation of hillocks and even depth of waters in Indravati. We plugged all exit routes by the time the cadres realized they were surrounded,” he said.
 
 The forces and Naxalites began exchange of fire at 8.45am and continued till 11.30am on April 22. Security forces surprised the cadres by lobbying several grenades with their Under Barrel Grenade Launchers (UBGL) right into the heart of the camp where 40-50 cadres could be seen across a couple of hundred metres.
 
 The shelling not only inflicted casualties on rebels but also triggered panic as they started running for cover. Their leaders were unable to control them leaving them unable to retaliate. As firing from two side continued, some cadres started jumping into the river to escape only to be picked off by the troops on the opposite bank. “Most bodies were found near the escape routes from where cadres had tried to flee,” Deshmukh said.
 
 “We started search operations once their guns fell silent. Many times in the past, the security forces had got massacred as their ammunition got exhausted, this time luck had deserted the Maoists,” he added.
 
 The security forces had to discontinue communication through the satellite phones while the firing was on. At 9.15am, a villager landed up at Tadgaon post with news of heavy exchange of fire. “We knew action had started. There would be some information. We knew even if there are casualties, our parties would respond well,” said the SP.
 
 Deshmukh, his team, DIG Shinde and others were relieved when the commanders of battling parties came back on satellite phones and informed them of 8-10 bodies at the camp site and some more in the river. Everyone among their troops was safe. They began gathering the bodies of slain Naxalites but had to stop as heavy rains hit the forest at 2pm. A few cadres had managed to escape too. TOI came across a villager who had seen three men and a woman flee by diving into the waters of Indravati.
 
 “It was a harrowing task to carry the bodies back while remaining alert for escaped cadres to regroup and attack or to snatch the bodies back from us,” said the SP.
 
 Having brought in 16 bodies from the forest by tying them with bamboo and ferrying them to Gadchiroli for identification and post-mortem, another search was launched beyond the hillocks and into the river after 24 hours. A fleet of Mine-Protected Vehicles and some reinforcements were sent to assist the squads. But they got stranded a few kilometres from the site. That did not stop the commandos from completing the onslaught and also retrieve the bodies.
 
 “We had to create a helipad on the exposed sand of the river bank to air lift the bodies,” said Deshmukh adding that combining human intelligence and technological support was key to the success in the operation.
 
 DIG Shinde said Gadchiroli police had completed a detailed survey, profiling each village to know about their population and people residing in each hamlet which came in handy for the forces.
 
 
