BHOPAL: More than 50 persons were killed and 80 others were injured in separate road mishaps reported from different parts of   in the last 48 hours.

 
 Eight people, including children sitting under a roadside tree’s shadow, died near   – located 35 km from Jabalpur district headquarters on Sunday evening as a cement-laden truck overturned on them, said police, adding, the casualties might increase. The truck was on its way to Bhopal. Five people were injured in the accident.
 
 Earlier, seven people were killed and 26 others were injured when an overloaded bus overturned after the driver lost control of the vehicle in   district.
 
 Mandsaur SP   told media that the private bus was travelling towards Bhanupura from Mandsaur and those injured were hospitalised in time. More bus accidents were reported from Bhind, Dindori and Raisen districts.
 
 In Raisen, passengers tried to set the bus on fire after it overturned. Many of them sustained injuries, said police. The driver was speeding up the car despite a snag in breaking system.
 
 Six people of a marriage party, including the bridegroom and four minor girls, were killed and two others injured after the car they were travelling in collided head on with a speeding truck in Satna district late on Friday night. The car driver was also killed in the accident, which took place on Maihar-Amarpatan road near Narora village, said police.
 
 The truck first rammed against the car and then overturned on it killing six people on the spot. A JCB machine was pressed into service to separate the car from the truck, said a police officer. Rescuers had to cut open the car to pull out dead and injured, he added. 
 
 The groom, Brijmohan Kol (22), was on his way to the wedding venue at Amilia village. Others who were killed in the accident are driver Pintu Kol (30), Rishika (15), Ankita (14), Pranjal (14) and Amrita (10). The truck driver fled the spot after the incident. His address is being traced.
 
 Three youths were mowed to death by a truck in Katni district on Friday night. They were returning from a wedding ceremony.
 
 
 
