 has become such an integral part of our lives that we sometimes fail to draw a line between our personal and virtual lives. Selfies, status updates, checking in and constantly updating our daily activities seems more important. We ask college students if social media dictates our lives...

 
 
 
 Social media rules every single person’s life. From the moment we wake up till we sleep, we are glued to our phones. We need places where WiFi is easily available. The idea that others should know what we’re up to itself shows how much of a control social media has over our lives. The perfect selfie, caption, the perfect filter — everything defines us to the rest of the world, and we’re definitely swayed by all the opinions we get 
 
 I do feel social media dictates our lives. Our day literally starts with us scrolling through our social media accounts, and pretty much ends with it. Right from how we present ourselves  , what stories, memes, and songs we share, everything is judged. We have built a virtual personality to keep up with it. Social media connects us to everyone, and while it might seem fun, it’s not all that safe 
 
 
 I do think social media ends up dictating our lives far more than we’ll admit. Be it during class hours or while simply hanging out with friends, social media is like a crutch we cannot live without — a worm we can’t get out of heads. Even when being physically around the same friends we interact with on these platforms, we find it difficult to shut these  . In this modern age, everyone is hooked on to social media and allows it to shape their lives and schedules
 
 
 
 
 Social media is a major chunk of everyone’s life. It is a popular notion that social media is highly controlling and compelling. But to be honest, that is not the case. I use it mainly as a stress-buster and to find out what my friends are up to. People consider only Instagram, Facebook and Snapchat as social media, but there are other platforms like Pinterest and Quora, which have their own agenda. Together, they act as information suppliers. It does not dictate our lives in any particular way at all 
 
 Social media is more of a bearer of information. Just like the saying ‘Don’t kill the messenger’, we should not blame the platform for what we do, but rather the information itself, if at all we want to blame 
 anything. To say that social media alone dictates our lives is too much of an accusation 
 
 Social media plays a vital role in today’s day and age, primarily for the youth. It’s a means of expression, connection and also livelihood for some. However, I do not believe it has the power to dictate our lives, unless we actually give it the power to. The ill effects of social media can be avoided if we choose to make it only a part of our lives and not a means of living 
 
 
 - Sanjana Sindhe
 
