HYDERABAD: It was a smooth entry for Sunrisers Hyderabad when they joined the   in 2013. They finished fourth in the table but the contours of a fine team were beginning to take shape. They were trendsetters too, then. Remember Kumar Sangakkara sitting out due to bad form?

 
 
 
 
 With the likes of Dale Steyn, Ishant Sharma and Amit Mishra to start with, the emphasis was on a heavy batting order up front with Shikhar Dhawan, Quinton de Kock and Aaron Finch joining the team next year (2014). That season also saw the current main exponent of their success story in defending any total – Bhuvneshwar Kumar – also being drafted in along with David Warner.
 
 
 
 
 Though success was limited to finishing sixth in 2014 and 2015, the Sunrisers gave an indication of things to come by defending totals as low as 119/8 (against Pune Warriors) and 127 in their debut year, when they restricted their opposition to totals below 130 nearly eight times, including dismissing Delhi for 80. With David Warner at the helm, the Sunrisers emerged a formidable force as the skipper formed an enviable combination at the top with Shikhar Dhawan and their bowling assumed a cutting edge. Bhuvneshwar was the pivot around which Mustafizur Rahman, Ashish Nehra, Barinder Sran and Siddarth Kaul revolved as they emerged champions.
 
 Nehra’s injury and surgery saw Kaul acquit himself very well last season as Chris Jordan, Ben Cutting, Mohammad Nabi,   added to the firepower of the Sunrisers, who have converted defending low totals into an art form this edition. Mumbai Indians came a cropper at the Wankhede, chasing down 118 and lost by 31 runs, Kings XI Punjab were cruising while chasing SRH’s 132 for six before crashing to a 13-run defeat and Rajasthan Royals failed to overtake SRH’s 151 for seven. On Monday night, RCB became their latest victims as Kaul and Bhuvi came up with death bowling of such impact that RCB fell short by five runs.
 
 That begs the question – how does a team shorn of star value do such a stunning job of defending totals? “It tells us about the skill of the bowlers we have. All five – Bhuvneshwar, Sandeep Sharma, Kaul, Rashid Khan, Shakib Al Hasan and Basil Thampi – are very skilful,” SRH mentor   told TOI. “The basic requirement in defending a small total is conviction and self belief, which translates into attitude and approach. And what can set you back when defending a small total is a partnership. It pays to be positive if that happens.”
 
 
