KOLKATA: Bengal’s panchayat   are not starting on May 1. The Calcutta High Court on Friday directed the State Election Commission to redraw the poll schedule in consultation with the state government, 20 days after it fixed May 1, 3 and 5 as dates for a three-phase rural poll.

 The HC also scrapped the SEC’s April 10 notification, which reversed its own decision (taken less than 12 hours earlier) to give an extra day to candidates to file their nominations. The SEC will now have to announce a fresh date for filing of nomination papers by candidates, who could not file their papers by April 9 because of “terror and intimidation by ruling party supporters”, and then draw up a fresh schedule for the polls.
 
 Significantly, both Trinamool Congress and the opposition parties welcomed the verdict, choosing to focus on their own sets of takeaways. “We welcome the judgment and hope the SEC will conduct the election as soon as possible in accordance with the panchayat law. Quite a few days have been wasted and I don’t want to waste any more,” CM   said. Trinamool MP and senior lawyer Kalyan Banerjee took the cue from his leader and opted not to take the legal battle further.
 
 The court’s direction for fixing another date for filing nominations makes it impossible for the SEC to stick to the original poll schedule because there has to be a clear 21-day gap between the last date of filing nomination papers and the first day of polling.
 
 There are several other stages between the nomination-filing day and polling day, including scrutiny of candidates’ lists, withdrawal of nominations, publication of the final list of candidates and allotment of symbols.
 
 Justice Subrata Talukdar, however, did not fix the fresh nomination-filing date as well as the new poll dates, leaving it to the SEC to fix in consultation with the state government.
 
 The HC, in a setback for the Trinamool, set aside the argument that it had no jurisdiction to hear poll matters when the election process was on after Trinamool MP Banerjee spent hours on this point during his submission, going to the extent of citing Supreme Court orders to argue that any allegation that had the “effect of vitiating an election should be brought up only at an appropriate stage in an appropriate forum before a special tribunal”.
 
 BJP petitioner Pratap Banerjee called the high court order a victory for the people of Bengal. The Congress and the  , while welcoming the order, said they would keep an eye on how things would unfold now.
 
 “I fear the Trinamool will continue with its violence and threats,”   president Adhir Chowdhury said. Chowdhury has filed a public interest litigation in the court of acting Chief Justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya for deployment of central paramilitary forces during the election. “The case will come up for hearing after two weeks,” Chowdhury said.
 
 CPM leader and lawyer   also kept alive the option of moving court. “Let us see how things play out. We will knock on the court’s doors again if the Trinamool sticks to its tactics,” Bhattacharya said.
 
 
