MANALI:   are surprised over appearance of flowers on plants a month in advance even as scientists blame it on climate change, which is a matter of concern.

 According to scientists, hills are witnessing   in February and this is not a good sign. They blame it on change in weather pattern, no snowfall and rise in temperature. Trees of stone fruits like plum, peaches, apricot, almond and cherry are already in full bloom.
 
 Associate director of Dr Y S Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry Dr D R Khajuria said the blossoming had come almost a month in advance. “The weather is to be blamed for this. Temperature is abnormally high due to no snowfall. Now, if temperature dips after peaks witness snowfall, it can destroy the bloom in advance stage, that will eventually affect the harvest,” he said. Another scientist Dr Kishore Khosla, who specializes in plant pathology, also said the early blooming is not a good sign. “If temperature remains stable, growers can get a good crop but if it dips suddenly, which is likely in the next few days, it will affect the pollination process. The rise in temperature in early February is not good for crops,” he said
 
 Not only lower parts of Kullu and Mandi district but some orchards in Manali have also sprung to life with early blooming. The beautiful sight is not cheering growers and scientists as they know nature had started to give signs that something is not good. Some growers have also started to share the photos of early flowering on social media. Some of them are claiming that apple tree flowers have also begun to appear. Fruit grower Rinchen Zangpo said almond bloom in front of his house offers beautiful view but also worries him a lot. “Most people in state are dependent on fruit cultivation for their livelihood. This is a serious threat that climate change is now visible not only in form of shrinking glaciers but also in form of early blooming. I pray this should not happen every year,” he added.
 
 “Climate has already changed,” plum grower Rohit Boktapa said, adding that the trees had developed large green buds and few of them were about to bloom. “I have never seen blooming in early February. This is a serious matter of concern. Now, only God can protect our crops.”
 
 
