Nagpur: In a respite to thousands of citizens and builders, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Thursday relaxed the stringent restrictions it had imposed on MSEDCL and SNDL against issuing power connections to buildings lacking occupancy/completion certificates. A division bench of justices Bhushan Gavai and Murlidhar Giratkar accepted the pursis filed by amicus curiae Shreerang Bhandarkar, who requested the court to ease the stringent conditions that were causing several problems for citizens. MSEDCL too had sought modification of the HC order of August 31 last year, contending it was leading to several complications in giving power connections to old houses and slum areas where no HT lines exist. HC had then asked the amicus to tender a list of exceptions of such areas, where power connections could be released without occupancy/completion certificates. The court was hearing a suo motu PIL based on TOI reports on the deaths of 11-year-old twins Priyansh and Piyush Dhar, and five-year old Umesh Pande due to electrocution from HT wires. Earlier, the state government informed it had granted a bungalow in Ravi Bhavan to the court appointed panel to resolve the issues pertaining to HT lines. It would be available till June 15. Before adjourning the plea by two weeks, the judges directed NMC, NIT, MSEDCL and Spanco to depute their assistant engineers to assist the panel. In his pursis, Bhandarkar clarified no new service connection should be granted to sites, locations, and areas already identified as danger zones by MSEDCL and SNDL, and where HT lines were perilously close to buildings, premises and houses. Similarly, any premises, buildings and houses, identified as illegal and unauthorized construction, as per the planning authorities like on government lands, wouldn’t be provided electricity meters. Bhandarkar mentioned some structures where power connections could be granted taking into consideration the threat perception about hazards or danger. He informed that the slum areas where no HT line exists or the distance between tenements is maintained/available as per rules and regulations, should be excluded from HC’s order along with old buildings, houses and flats built as per DCR. Even those premises and flat schemes where HT line exists, but the distance between them is maintained as per rules should also be spared along with new houses and commercial buildings possessing sanctioned plan. (With inputs from Abhishek Tiwari)