HYDERABAD: It’s a double delight for denizens of the Old City. The long-pending Metro rail works will kick off soon and the rail corridor will be extended from Falaknuma to Shamshabad Airport.

 
  
  
 
 Municipal administration minister   said the works in the Old City were delayed because of the sensitivity involved with a lot of religious structures on the stretch. Giving a detailed reply on the works during the question hour in the assembly on Tuesday, the minister said: “There are 103 religious structures on the stretch and 25 were likely to get affected. But now, only four structures will have to make way for construction of Metro viaduct and pier.”
 
 Metro rail stretches in the Old City fall under corridor II of Metro phase I (JBS to Falaknuma) and the works are being taken up from   to MGBS. But now, the government is planning to complete the balance 6-km stretch from   to Falaknuma as well.
 
 While the maximum width of the road is 200 ft in places like Miyapur, the minimum road width is 66 ft at Sultan Bazar which is oneway. “The road needs to be expanded to 80 ft to 100 ft,” the minister said and added that works between JBS and MGBS are at a brisk pace and will be completed by August this year.
 
 When MIM floor leader Akbaruddin Owaisi sought a clarification on reports that the project concessionaire L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad is not willing to complete the Old City corridor, Rama Rao said: “It is a hypothetical question. The government is committed to completing the Metro rail in the Old City.”
 
  floor leader G Kishan Reddy questioned the government on the undue delay. “People in the Old City have waited for the Metro rail for the last eight years. The TRS government has also dragged its feet for the last four years,” he pointed out and staged a walkout protesting against the apathy of the government.
 
 Earlier, Rama Rao said the government had spent ₹2,296 crore towards land acquisition, while the Centre paid ₹1,000 crore against ₹1,458 crore viability gap funding. On escalation in project cost, the minister said: “There are claims and counter-claims on the cost escalation. But, we have not arrived at a final figure yet.”
 
 
