HYDERABAD: The   is facilitating states and   to individually develop   with foreign countries, said   minister of state for external affairs   on Sunday. 

 He said his ministry has created a separate economic diplomacy and states division to actively help states to receive foreign investments. He said the external affairs ministry has not limited itself to maintaining political and cordial relationship with other countries, but also encouraging states.
 
  
 
 
 
 “It’s not about getting into sister city agreements or becoming smart cities. We are a democracy. We can leverage this. Each state can do well,” he said, explaining how states should benefit economically through business agreements with companies abroad. The minister was participating in the ‘Deccan Dialogue’, a conference on ‘Economic diplomacy for development’ jointly organised by the economic diplomacy and states division, ministry of external affairs and Indian School of Business, Hyderabad.
 
 
 He said the manufacturing sector needed growth and it was not enough if the country is doing well in the services sector. He pointed out while the general economy of the world was sluggish, India was standing out as a bright spot. “Our markets should be exploited. Everyone is wooing India. FDI flow has been at an all-time high. We need to do some serious thinking to make it even better,” he said.
 
 
 Referring to China’s ‘Best and Road Initiative’, which is aimed at building routes with other countries for economic gains, he said India cannot afford to just remain a spectator. He said through economic diplomacy, India should get the best advantage and this should be done by taking a relook at traffic, trade and other regimes. The minister confessed that while   through its economic diplomacy was pushing for gains, the Union ministry of commerce had its own concerns on certain trade restrictions. “These should be sorted out,” he said.
 
 
 Singh said the focus should be on improving air, road and railway connectivity within the country and this would help the manufacturing sector grow. “We have a large number of young people. This demography can both be an advantage and a challenge. Global labour mobility is in our interest,” he said.
 
 
 “It is not just going abroad to work. There should be no illegal migration. There should be no exploitation. It should serve the interest of both India and countries where our people are going to work,” he said.
 
 
 
