CHANDIGARH: Opposing the decision of the Chandigarh administration to cut down the limit of cash deposit from Rs 2,000 to Rs 500 at e-Sampark centres in the city, the Federation of Sectors’ Welfare Association of Chandigarh ( ), on Sunday, decided to raise the issue with the authorities.

 In the Foswac meeting, the members of various resident welfare associations (RWA) objected the notification of the authorities that said the residents can no more deposit over Rs 500 in cash in the e-Sampark centres and have to use their debit or credit card for the same.
 
 Secretary of citizens association, Sector 21,   said the residents are opposing this decision. “Especially, the senior citizens, who are not tech-friendly and avoid using debit or credit card for payments, are against it,” he said.
 
 Sharing about the cash limit, he said earlier the limit was Rs 10,000, which was later cut down to Rs 2000. Now, it has further been reduced to Rs 500, which is not acceptable to the residents. “FOSWAC would submit a representation to the Chandigarh administration to reconsider the decision to facilitate the public, for whom the centres were opened in the first place,” he added.
 
 Another issue which the RWAs raised in the meeting was increase in the number of incidents of snatching in the city. The representatives said with the significant rise in the number of snatchings now, they believe that, cops must also be telling their wives not to wear gold chains while venturing out. FOSWAC should organise a special meeting with police to discuss about the law and order situation in the city, they added.
 
 Representatives from Sector 38 (west) levelled a serious allegation against their area councillor  . According to them, he is misusing his powers in allocating the community centres to the local residents. Even as the newly-constructed community centre of the Sector 38 (west) is yet to be opened for public, the councillor organised Lohri function there last month. However, he denied its permission to a local resident who wanted to use it to host a marriage function.
 
 Members also objected to the increasing encroachments in the market area of various sectors. RWA president of Sector 15 Surinder   said the issue has been raised by different members in a number of past meetings, but nothing has been done about it by the authorities till date. “The irony is that when any of the residents raises the issue with the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) commissioner, his response is that the authorities are in the process of drafting policy for the vendors,” he added.
 
 As per norms, the MC has exempted ex-Army men, in-service personnel, widows and disabled persons from the house tax. But, they continue get notices regarding this. When these residents approach the authorities, they are informed that they can submit their affidavit to the authorities for further exemption from tax, but have to pay the pending tax amount as they have not informed them about it before. 
 
 Chandigarh administration and Chandigarh MC are not involving Foswac in any of their decisions. Hence, a number of problems are remaining unresolved. Area councillors have made the community centre of their wards their personal property and misusing them for their own benefits. There is deficit of funds with the authorities but that never affects the salaries of officials
 
 
 
