Nagpur: Twenty poets of Hindi and Urdu gathered at Muktangan, SCZCC, on Sunday evening to pay   to   -Ur-Rehman Khan on the occasion of his 94th birth anniversary. It was eight years back the poet and former professor of Urdu of Nagpur University passed away. Well-known Urdu poet Shams Jalnavi was the guest of honour at the meet.

 In a mushaira titled Yaad-e-Mansha, organized by his son and grandson, Nadeem and Azeem Khan, the evening saw an eclectic mix of doctors, engineers and writers who also dabble in poetry. 
 
 Taking the stage first to pay his tribute was MA Kadar, the well-known singer who had known the late poet. “Many others of my age here have known him very well. The idea behind this evening is to introduce Mansha to the younger generation,” Kadar said while he read out a naat written by Mansha.
 
 Terming the late poet as one of the symbols of India’s secularistic character, historian and poet GS Khawaja Rabbani described his poetry as one of motivation. “He would ignite emotions at any stage where he performed not just in the city but across India. His own couplet, ‘Haq main dushman ke dua kaun karega, siway mere ye kaam aur kaun karega,’ sums his personality and character in the best way,” Khawaja said.
 
 The group of poets was a good mix of young and old and Sandeep Sarathi belonged to the younger group. The engineering student who writes about love and romance expressed himself with his poem ‘Pehli mohabbat’ but after reciting a couplet, ‘Jism hai to dikhta huoon, meri rooh hai jo likhta huoon.’ The other younger poets included, visual artist Babar Sharief, IT professional Shirish Naik and Anas Nabal from Akola who writes on current issues and social anomalies. “Parindo haq se baitho in building par ki phele is jagah par jungle hua kartey thay,” he said. After Azeem Khan, who writes under the name of Manchala, had recited his poetry, it was the turn of elder poets which included Dr Lokendra Singh and Dr Sharad Ranade among others to take the stage.
 
 Remembering his association with Mansha, writer Ramesh Gandhi said that the late poet was always very encouraging. “He would very patiently listen to what I wrote and always told me to right without bothering about the grammar or meter,” Gandhi said as he recited the poem which he had penned on the occasion of Mansha’s 75th birthday.
 
 
