MUMBAI: Recently, 22-year-old Marathi actor   told his mother that he was finding the commute from his office in   very tiring. The travel killed him on Monday morning. At 4.16am, when Prafulla tried to board a   at  , he slipped and fell. The GRP took him to Babasaheb Ambedkar hospital in Kandivli, where he was declared dead. His iPhone helped cops establish his identity.

 Prafulla shot to fame as a child   on the TV show ‘Kunku’. He has also acted in Marathi TV serials such as ‘Tu Majha Sangati,’ ‘Nakushi’ and ‘Jyotiba Phule’, besides a Marathi film ‘Barayan’, which was released recently.
 
 CCTV footage shows Prafulla running on a foot over-bridge to catch a Churchgate-bound slow train that had started moving out. He slipped from the end of the platform. A post-mortem examination showed head injuries to be the cause of his death. 
 
 
  
  
 
 “Prafulla would usually zip around on his father’s bike. However, after he took up this job in Malad four months ago, he decided to start taking the train as his office was almost 30km away,” said his aunt, adding that he was supposed to do a week-long night shift once a month. He was drawing Rs 16,000 per month.
 
 His mother told TOI: “Prafulla would return by 5.15am after night shift. When there was no sign of him till 6am, my husband was about to dial his number; but before he could do that we received a call from the police. My husband dashed out of the home without saying anything. For a long time, I was not aware of my son’s death.” Prafulla’s father Kailash works at a security agency. 
 
 “When he told me the commute was tiring, I had told him to quit the job,” the mother said.
 
 “Prafulla wanted to work in the south Indian film industry and was trying to bulk up his body for it. He used to go to the gym earlier and was unhappy since he stopped going. Prafulla wanted to go holidaying with his friends from TV industry to Indonesia. I had told him to save the money that he received for ‘Nakushi’ and use it for the holiday,” she added. Prafulla, who had adopted a stray called Piku in his lane, had bought an iPhone using his friend’s credit card and booked a bike for himself. He was paying monthly instalments for both from his salary. 
 
 Recalling their last conversation on Sunday evening, his mother said he had overslept. “He was famished and kept asking for food,” she said.
 
 On coming to know of Prafulla’s death, his co-stars, relatives and girlfriend rushed to his house to pay last respects while Piku kept barking all day long and refused to eat. 
 
 
