NAVI MUMBAI: A whopping 2.62 lakh faulty electricity   were replaced by   in the last quarter across Konkan Regional Division, which includes Navi Mumbai, Bhandup, Mulund, Panvel, Kalyan, Palghar and Thane. 

 The move was aimed at curbing commercial and distribution losses and also provide error-free bills to consumers. 
 
 
  
 Consumers had been complaining about fluctuated billing amounts due to defunct and malfunctioning meters. 
 
 The Panvel division recorded the highest number of new meters, followed by   and Waghle Estate Circle in Bhandup division. After facing flak from consumers who were reportedly getting inflated bills before the replacement of the faulty meters. MSEDCL initiated the meter-replacement drive on a massive scale in January and installed the new meters by March-end.
 
 According to MSEDCL sources, those who paid excess due to faulty meters in the previous three months will be reimbursed via adjustments in the ensuing bills based on fresh meter readings. 
 
 On the other hand, those who paid less in accordance with the new meter reading will be charged the deficit amount while taking into account of three retrospective months, for recovery. “We have appealed to the consumers to bear with us with the change of faulty meters which will give accurate meter reading and help us recover the loss and refund the excess amount received and provide better services,” said  , divisional director, MSEDCL.
 
 After receiving the first bill, many consumers in Navi Mumbai and Thane raised their voices about the exorbitant billing and staged a protest, prompting MSEDCL to assure them of considering their cases through rechecking of meters and adjustments, if any. 
 
 MSEDCL has guaranteed utmost accuracy in the new meters.
 
 “Over a period of time, the electronic meters became either defunct or slow and the display was also poor due to which inaccuracy in billing started cropping up. This has prompted us to change such meters to recover the loss and pacify the consumers,” said  , PRO of MSEDCL.
 
 
