BHAGALPUR: The Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University (TMBU) syndicate ratified Rs 781 crore deficit   for the financial year 2018-2019 on Thursday. Earlier, the budget proposals were placed for discussion and approval by the   syndicate on January 16, 2018, but could not get approval as majority of the syndicate members objected saying that it lacked clarity.

 During the earlier budget proposal, the syndicate members also objected to the procedure adopted by the university while alleging that university authorities did not care to provide agenda of budget proposals to be discussed to the syndicate members in advance. Following the objections raised, a revised budget was placed in the second meeting held on February 1. Several issues like swindling money, in addition to the approved fee structure, from the students by private teachers’ training college for BEd and other courses beside other issues were brought before the syndicate.
 
 Other issues like time-bound promotion of TMBU teachers, facilities to sports persons, appointment and payment of remuneration to guest faculties, remunerations to contractual personnel, establishment of girls section especially for the girl students in  , monitoring of admissions in colleges against the sanctioned number of seats besides issues like inspection of colleges to monitor the teaching standard etc were discussed in the meeting.
 
 Syndicate members including JD (U) MLC Manoj Yadav, JD (U) functionary   and several other members singled out a private teachers’ training college at   block in   district for demanding additional money (apart from the approved fee structure) from the applicants for getting admission and later on harassing them who failed to cough up the money. The members demanded to set up an inquiry committee to probe the charges.
 
 TMBU public relations officer   said that deficit budget proposals of Rs 781 crore has been approved by the syndicate for financial year 2018-2019 against the estimated income of Rs 8.4 crore only. Issues raised by the syndicate members will be taken up for necessary action shortly as per the statutory provisions, he added.
 
 
