TRICHY: A group of archaeological enthusiasts discovered the remains of a temple -- believed to have been built in the medieval Chola period -- close to the banks of the   near   in Trichy district.

 The stone temple was believed to have been intact till the 13th century before being ravaged by floods in the Cauvery. The stone slabs of the ruined structure, which had been lying idle for centuries, were said to have been utilised by the British to construct a bridge across a canal.
 
 The team of archaeology enthusiasts -- N Murugan, V Parthipan and S Vinoth -- located the remains of the temple. They spotted stone slabs having inscriptions while visiting the origin point of the Uyyakondan canal, a distributary of the Cauvery.
 
 While the team was inspecting a British era bridge connecting Devadanam hamlet near Pettaivaithalai, they found stone slabs engraved with inscriptions on the inner walls of the outlet. “Through further visual observations along the walls of the outlet canal and bridge, we realised that we were looking at the remains of an ancient temple,” said V Parthipan, one of the members of the expedition team. 
 
 The members subsequently alerted senior professor S Rajavelu of the department of Maritime History and Marine Archaeology in Tamil University, Thanjavur. 
 
 Rajavelu, who inspected the stone slabs and analysed the stone inscriptions, said the temple belonged to the 9th century. The stone slabs identified along the canal near the Cauvery bear the inscriptions of several renowned Chola kings, including Parantaka Chola, Uththama Chola, Rajaraja Chola I, Rajendira Chola I, Rajadhiraja Chola I and Kulottunga Chola I.
 
 One of the inscriptions decoded by the archaeology enthusiasts identifies the name of the ruined temple as Tirupponnodai Isvarar. The engravings also reveals the name of the canal as Ponnodai, reportedly a perennial water body irrigating the then cultivable lands around Pettavaithalai.
 
 “Due to the heavy flooding in Cauvery, the temple should have collapsed around 12th or 13th century as we do not get inscriptions beyond that period. The village name was referred as Suralur alias Chola Uttama Chaturvedi Mangalam in the inscriptions,” Rajavelu said. 
 
 As many as 25 fragmentary inscriptions, engraved structures, and frieze (decorative sculpture) of the ruined temple were found by the expedition team. As the heap of stones were lying for centuries without proper care after the temple disintegrated, public works department (PWD) in British colonial period was said to have used the slabs to construct bridge across the outlet. The canal from where the ruins were found serves as a drainage channel for the Devadanam village situated on the Trichy-Karur stretch of national highway 67 near Pettaivaithalai.
 
 The team further called for a detailed study in the locality with support from PWD and state archaeology department to explore the historical sources and inscriptions available. 
 
 
