PUNE: The first   of this year is quite a rare occurrence. 

 On January 31, we will witness the first eclipse involving a Blue Moon in more than 150 years. Such a phenomenon was last seen on March 31, 1866, and will not be seen again for 11 more years, till December 31, 2028.
 
 As the moon will be red in colour (termed ‘Blood Moon’) at the height of the total eclipse, and given that this will be a Blue Moon, this eclipse is being called the ‘Super Blue-Blood Moon’.
  
  
 In Pune, the eclipse will be visible from 6.27pm to 6.31pm. “There are a total of five eclipses that will occur in 2018, of which three are partial solar eclipses. They will take place on February 15, July 13 and August 11, but are not visible from India,” said  , the director of  . “The other two — total lunar eclipses — will both be visible in India. The first one is on January 31, which is partially visible in India, and second one is on July 28, which will be entirely visible,” he added.
 
 The July eclipse will be visible from  , Europe, Africa, Asia and Australia. According to USA’s National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa), the earth will experience a total of 228 lunar eclipses in the 21st century.
 
 The earth casts two shadows that fall on the moon during a lunar eclipse: The umbra (a full, dark shadow) and the penumbra (a partial outer shadow). The moon passes through these shadows in stages. This can occur only when the sun, earth, and moon are aligned exactly with the earth in the middle and so, a lunar eclipse can occur only the night of a full moon.
 
 However, the moon’s orbit around the earth is on a plane different from the latter’s orbit around the sun. So, the perfect alignment for an eclipse doesn’t occur at every full moon. 
 
 A total lunar eclipse comprises three stages — penumbral, umbral and totality.
 
 The moon is about 3.84 lakh kilometres away from the earth. During the total lunar eclipse, the moon first enters the penumbral shadow of the earth. This shadow is very faint and a casual observer can miss the beginning of this phase of the eclipse. The progress of the penumbral shadow becomes apparent when more than half of the moon is covered by it, said Paranjpye.
 
 The Umbral shadow of the earth on the moon is very distinct, and its progress can be easily noticed, he added. When the moon is entirely covered by the umbra, a total lunar eclipse will have set in. After this, the moon comes out of the shadow in the reverse sequence. 
 
 “During the total phase of the lunar eclipse, the moon will appears red colour. The reason is very similar to red apparition of the moon (or the sun) when it is rising or setting. Fine particles in the atmosphere of earth scatter the blue component of the solar spectrum, and what reaches us is the red part. The red wavelength further travels and falls on the moon, giving it a reddish hue during the total phase of the eclipse,” said Paranjpye.
 
 There have been times when a volcanic explosion preceded a total lunar eclipse. In July 1992, Mt Pinatubo of the Philippines had erupted, killing a reported 847 people. The total lunar eclipse of December 10, 1992, was so dark that for a while, the moon appeared to have vanished from the sun — the sky was as dark as that on a new moon night.
 
 The last lunar eclipse, a partial one, had taken place on August 17 last year. 
 
 Today, eclipses are seen as a scientific phenomenon, but that has not always been the case. Through the ages, before the advent of science, eclipses were viewed with a mixture of awe and fear, especially during the ‘Blood Moon’ phase. The superstitious blamed it on God’s wrath.
 
