LUDHIANA: The case in which the body of a 32-year-old was found on the railway tracks of   line — in which the   (GRP) proceeded with Section 174 of CrPC, assuming it to be an accident — has turned to be a murder. On Friday, seven months after the crime, CIA-I arrested three accused persons for killing the man and dumping his body on the railway tracks.

 On June 5 last year, the body of Deepak Kumar from EWS Colony was found in pieces on the railway track. According to police, Deepak had passed information to the police about the accused — who were known to him, and were wanted in drug peddling, assault, and snatching cases — and got them arrested. Following this, when the accused were bailed out, they hatched a conspiracy to kill Deepak.
 
 The arrested accused have been identified as   of Gagan Nagar in Giaspura, Gurbakhsh Singh of   on Gill Road, and Ankush Sharma of MIG Flats in Dashmesh Nagar. Two of the accused —including   and Kali — who were arrested in some other cases, have been lodged in Ludhiana Central Jail, while another accused Rohit is on the run.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (DCP-Investigation)   said in the questioning that the accused told police that on June 5 last year, they called Deepak over drinks in the Grain Market near Gill Road. From there, they kidnapped him and took to Radha Swami Road near the railway lines. The accused then thrashed him by attacking him with an iron rod and sharp-edged weapons. Later, he was strangulated with an electric wire. To make it look like an accident, the accused had dumped the body on a railway track.
 
 He added that on Thursday, Deepak’s sister approached the police and suspected her brother was killed by his friends. The police took the accused in custody for questioning, during which they confessed their crime, following which a case under sections 302 (murder), 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the IPC was registered against the accused on Friday at Shimlapuri police station.
 
 The DCP further added that Gagandeep was the gang leader. He and Kali were arrested in a case of ‘attempt of murder’ in 2017, and both of them were lodged in jail. Gagandeep is involved in more than 10 cases of murder, attempt to murder, and snatchings. The police will now check how the GRP proceeded with Section 174 of CrPC in the case.
 
 
