NEW DELHI: The   on Tuesday moved to ensure speedy trial in cases under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. A three-judge bench headed by CJI Dipak Misra issued six guidelines to make trials in cases of child sexual abuse under the POCSO Act conform to the intent of the legislation, including asking each high court to set up a committee of judges to monitor progress of these cases and take remedial measures wherever necessary.

 
 The   asked high courts to ensure that all child sexual abuse cases were dealt with by special courts under the procedure prescribed in the act, indicating the apex court’s concern that the trauma of child victims should not be prolonged. It asked each HC to set up a committee of judges to monitor progress of cases under POCSO Act and take remedial measures wherever they found that the trial was not proceeding as per the mandate of the law. 
 
 The SC said the HCs would ensure that special courts provided a child-friendly atmosphere as per the spirit of the law. The special courts set up to deal with child sexual abuse cases, which would include all kinds of sexual assault as well as use of a child for pornographic purposes, must be instructed by the HCs to fast-track the trials and not grant “unnecessary adjournments”, the SC said. 
 
 Importantly, the CJI-led bench ordered the director general of police of each state to constitute a special task force to professionally investigate child sexual abuse cases and ensure timely production of witnesses in courts. The SC also asked DGPs to provide adequate security to witnesses as well as the child in sexual abuse cases. PIL petitioner-cum-advocate Alakh Alok   had complained that Section 35 of POCSO Act, which envisaged conclusion of trial within one year from the date of a court taking cognisance, was being observed in the breach. 
 
 He quoted   statistics to inform the court that as many as 8,904 cases of sexual offences against children were reported in 2014 under POCSO Act, of which 7,970 cases were still pending, belying the law’s objective to provide speedy trial. Quoting a   report of May 2016, Srivastava had told the SC that 5,217 cases were registered by it between 2012 and 2015 under POCSO Act. 
 
 “Out of this, investigation is still pending for more than a year in 251 cases, for two years in 90 cases and for more than three years in 14 such cases. Such inordinate delay in completion of investigation and consequent incessant delay in completion of trial are defeating the very purpose of POCSO Act,” he said. 
 
 Srivastava said right to speedy trial was available not only to the accused but also to sexually assaulted children and their families. “Speedy completion of trial reduces the psychological suffering of rape survivors. Hence, it is in the interest of justice that investigation and trial are completed in maximum 6 months from the date of incident,” he had said.
 
