GUWAHATI: With no leads emerging in the case of the missing   peace talks facilitator, the pro-talks faction of Ulfa questioned the Union home ministry and peace interlocutor   about the progress of the investigation. 

 Rebati Phukan, once a BJP candidate for the assembly election from Lahowal in Assam, has been facilitating every peace dialogue between the Centre and Ulfa since 1990. He went missing on April 22 here and was last seen going on a morning walk, leaving behind his two cell phones at home. Chief minister   ordered a search unit of   Police to take up the case, but police have made no headway yet.
 
 Ulfa general secretary Anup Chetia told TOI on Tuesday that the outfit's central executive committee had raised the case of Phukan's mysterious disappearance with Mathur, former special secretary of the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), and officials from the Intelligence Bureau (IB) during one of the rounds of the ongoing dialogue in New Delhi on Monday.
 
 "We have told IB officials and the interlocutor that there are rumours of the involvement of Indian intelligence agencies in Phukan's kidnapping. We want to know his whereabouts," Chetia said. "The interlocutor told us that government of India does not see Phukan as an anti-national and is a known face for the central government for a long time since he has always been involved in initiating peace talks with Ulfa. He denied that Indian intelligence agencies could be involved in his missing because he is not considered as an enemy of the state," he added.
 
 Chetia, who was handed over to India by Bangladesh after he completed 18 years in jail since his arrest there in 1997, joined the pro-talks faction and is currently leading the group in the dialogue process with the Centre. It was Phukan who played a key role in his transfer from Bangladesh.
 
 On Tuesday, Phukan's son Kaushik also met top Union home ministry officials in New Delhi, seeking information about his father. He said, "I have now decided to take the legal recourse...there is no positive response from anywhere. I am taking legal consultation and, in all likelihood, we will be moving Supreme Court next week."
 
 Phukan's son said his father was actively trying to bring Paresh Baruah, the leader of the anti-talks Ulfa (Independent), to the negotiating table. He suspects that his father might have been kidnapped by "people who do not want Paresh Baruah to join the peace process".
 
 Baruah had earlier told TOI that Phukan disappeared at a time when he was negotiating a fresh proposal for his faction with the Centre with help from the interlocutor with the Naga outfit National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Isak-Muivah), RN Ravi. Baruah had also expressed his suspicion that Phukan might have been "kidnapped by one of India's intelligence agencies - IB, RAW, MI or NIA - who have serious inter-agency rivalry among them."
 
 The last time Baruah had met Phukan was in   in 2014, when a peace proposal by IB and RAW was on the table.
 
 
