LUCKNOW:  , where a class I student was stabbed in toilet on Tuesday, was closed for two days on Friday. The principal, manager and director were not available and the police team which went to record their statements was told by staff that they have gone out of city.

 Nepal Singh, police outpost in-charge of  , said that he went to the school to record statements of authorities and check   footage again. "School teachers and non-teaching staff present there told me that school has been closed because of law and order problem being witnessed for the past two days. They also said that the director, manager and principal are out of station and will be back when school reopens on Monday," said Singh.
 
 The school is run a by one family, with   being director and principal and her elder son Rachit working as manager. Other family members are on different posts. Rachit was arrested on Thursday for concealing facts related to the case but was released on bail the same evening. The incident occurred on Tuesday but school officials informed police on Wednesday when the matter was reported in media. 
 
 
 
 
 ASP trans-Gomti Harendra Kumar told TOI that police will revisit the crime scene and check CCTV footage once again.
 
 “If office-bearers of school management are not available on Monday or don’t co-operate then we will take legal action. A reconstruction of the crime will also be done. We are also thinking of recording statements of other children with the help of child helpline officials and child welfare committee members,” said ASP Kumar.
 
 Meanwhile, the condition of the injured boy improved on Friday. “The boy is much better. His wound is healing and he ate food today. If he remains stable, we might discharge him on Saturday,” said Prof Sandeep Tiwari, head of trauma surgery department.
 
 Hrithik’s father said, “He told me that a senior girl tied his hands with a red cloth and hit him on the head with a mop.”
 
 DIOS has begun probe against Brightland College.
 
 
