NEW DELHI: The Tamil Nadu government has extended conditional support to the Centre on the   and said it favoured enactment of such a legislation but would like criminal provisions in the bill that provide for imprisonment of three years and fine to be dropped. 

  A dozen states, all   ruled except Tamil Nadu, have sent their responses to the central government on the bill banning triple talaq. All have concurred with the NDA government on the legislation which has been passed by   and is likely to come up in   this week. 
 
 The Tamil Nadu government said, "The provision of punishment with three years imprisonment and fine may be omitted... and the Act be drafted accordingly."
 
  Tamil Nadu also suggested making "necessary provision to provide one-time settlement of entitled amount to Muslim married women as per Shariat law" while concurring with the view that subsistence allowance should be paid to dependent children who have been affected by the talaq, besides granting the affected women custody of minor children. 
 
  The Assam government said the proposed legislation "will go a long way in ensuring gender justice and equality to Muslim women and deter the practice which is reported to be continuing despite the SC judgment". Similar views were expressed by Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Manipur and Uttarakhand. 
 
  Most of these states said there was "an urgent need to give relief to helpless Muslim women by such a legislation to end the arbitrary, unjust and discriminatory practice". 
 
  Gujarat said "the present form of   in India has acquired a nature of cruelty against women" and therefore there was a need for penal provisions in the legislation. Madhya Pradesh said "the proposed legislation is indispensable to extend the benefit of cherished principle of equality before law and equal protection of law as enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution to married Muslim women" . 
 
 Maharashtra said it "is highly obliged about the decision of the central government to bring in the proposed legislation". Gujarat gave the example of "13 Arab countries such as Algeria, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Morocco, Sudan, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates and Yemen (all nine Islamic theocratic Muslim majority states) as well as Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon and Syria (all four Muslim majority secular states) having legislations to prohibit the practice of triple talaq". 
 
 
