Newly-elected mayor Davesh   talks to TOI and lists his priorities and challenges

 Q. How do you view your victory?
 
 I am humbled and grateful to my party for giving me an opportunity to serve residents of the city as the mayor. I will work with utmost dedication to fulfil the responsibility bestowed upon me.
 
 Q. What will be your priorities in the one-year term?
 
 I want to work for the overall development of the city by taking everyone along. In consultation with all elected representatives, both BJP-SAD and  , current and former MPs, we will work together to fulfil Prime Minister’s goals of a “New India” by making Chandigarh a model city. The issue of waste segregation concerns residents directly. We will seek people’s help to ensure segregation is done properly at every level.
 
 Q. How you plan to tackle financial crunch in the MC?
 
 We all will have to work together as a team to help the corporation overcome the financial crunch. If required, we will seek financial assistance from the central government. I am confident of getting the required funds from the Centre.
 
 Q. Any plan for introducing fresh taxes?
 
 We will not impose any fresh taxes without consulting residents. We will think of imposing them only after getting approval from people.
 
 Q. In run-up to the elections, the party was divided into two groups. What do you have to say?
 
 The party worked together and collective hard work helped us in achieving such good results. The win has put an end to all the speculation making the rounds. We all will work together for the development of the city.
 
 Q. You were made to apologise by former mayor.
 
 My prestige is certainly not greater than the party. The senior leaders have taken a decision, that is final, and I will fulfil the expectations of my party.
 
 Q. You opposed the contract given to a private firm for sanitation. What will be your next course of action?
 
 We will analyse the work done by the firm so far. Our main objective will be to ensure that transparency is maintained in all projects.
 
 What issues do you want the new mayor to take up?
 
 
