GURUGRAM: The city police did not fine a single motorist for overspeeding in January and February as all the six traffic interceptors have been lying defunct. Interceptors track   vehicles through laser-based cameras. The traffic cops said the interceptors could still issue challans but the cameras were not covering the range that they were designed to cover.

 According to police, there has been a concerted effort to fix the dysfunctional interceptors but they are not working yet. Explaining the “technical glitch”, a senior traffic police official said, “When the interceptors were functional, the cameras used to work within a range of 150 to 200 metres. However, now the range has been limited to only 50 metres.”
 
 As a result, the interceptors are no longer efficient on a highway where the range has to be more than 50 metres to detect overspeeding. However, the same interceptors could be used within city roads, officials said, adding that city roads were not speeding zones and installing the interceptors there would serve no purpose.
 
 On March 5, TOI reported that none of the six interceptors in the city, installed to curb the menace of overspeeding, were working. Replying to an RTI query, the police at that time said that the interceptor vehicles had not been maintained properly for the past three years. 
 
 Of the six interceptors, five belong to a type called Prolester-4 and the fifth one is of Prolestor-III type. These vehicles were bought from a US-based company to tackle speeding. Of the six interceptors, one was procured by the city police and the others were donated by a private auto company. Police officials said that the company was unwilling to get the interceptors fixed.
 
 According to the data with police, speeding has been found to be one of the major causes of accidents in 14 spots in the city, including Sirhaul where a number of route diversions were recently initiated by the authorities. Apart from this stretch on the Delhi-Gurugram expressway, Raj Nagar Mod, Naurangpur Mod, Bilaspur, Manesar, Kapriwas, Bandhswari Mod, Subash Chowk and Bakhtawar Chowk are among the many accident-prone spots in the city where speeding is a major problem.
 
 “We are trying to work on fixing the range of the interceptors to check overspeeding,” said a police official.
 
 
