GURUGRAM: The municipal corporation has decided to take up work to augment civic infrastructure at 15 unauthorised   across Gurgaon that currently lack even the basic amenities.

 Under the move, initiated as per the Haryana Management of Civic Amenities and Infrastructure Deficient Municipal Areas (special provisions) Act 2016,   will develop sewer lines, water pipes etc. at a subsidized rate. While the government will pay for 50% of the expenses incurred for the proposed development, the rest will have to be borne by property owners at the unauthorised colonies.
 
 The 15 colonies are   1 and 2, Bhim Colony, Hari Nagar Extension 1 and 2, Shri Ram Colony, Devi Lal Extension, New Jyoti Park Colony, Patel Nagar Extension, Shiv Nagar, Vikas Nagar, Ghasola, Nararpur Rupa, Harsaru village, Surat Nagar 1 Extension, Tikli village and Jharsa village extension.
 
 “We need to collect 50% of the development charges from property owners in these colonies at the rate of Rs 1,250 per sqft. Until they pay, we will not be able to start the infrastructure work,” said Sudhir Singh Chouhan, senior town planner, MCG.
 
 The amount, he added, would have to be collected by RWAs constituted and registered for individual colonies. The money thus collected will be kept in an escrow account, which will then be transferred to the corporation for carrying out the work.
 
 MGC sources said the Act provided that in case the residents were unable to fund the development cost, the corporation, in consultation with the RWAs concerned, would explore options for financing the projects through banks.
 
 “However, in case the residents do not deposit the 50% development charges within a year, they will not be eligible for the benefits (infra development at a subsidised rate) under the Act,” said Chouhan.
 
 In this regard, at the second   last week, councillors asked MCG officials to start developing common and basic infrastructure without the development charges. They claimed said that the rate (Rs 1,250 per sqft) would be too high for a large number of the residents.
 
 
