NEW DELHI: A young girl faces the test of her life, ordered by the  , in All India Institute of Medical Sciences ( ) and the result will determine whether she is permitted to live with her ‘husband’ or will stay in Allahabad’s  .

 
 She claimed to be in love with one Dharmendra Kumar, eloped and got married last year. Her father Kalpnath filed an FIR accusing Kumar of kidnapping a “minor” girl. The father then moved the Allahabad high court with a habeas corpus petition seeking production of his daughter in court. The girl’s counsel told the court that a medical examination had estimated her to be 19 years of age. But the father produced a certificate issued by  , according to which her age was around 14 years. 
 
 In December last year, a high court bench of Justices Shashi K Gupta and   had said, “There is nothing on record to indicate that she has got married to Kumar.”
 
 The bench referred to Section 94 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, and said the date of birth certificate from school or matriculation certificate from the examination board shall be given precedence over medical opinion on age.
 
 Going by the CBSE certificate and terming the girl a minor, the high court upheld the chief judicial magistrate’s order sending her to Nari Niketan, Allahabad, as she refused to accompany her parents.
 
 The girl moved the apex court through her ‘husband’ and a bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud on April 6 ordered production of the girl.
 
 The girl, dressed in a bright golden bridal sari, appeared before the court on Monday and answered questions. The bench ordered AIIMS to assess her age and posted the matter for further hearing on April 26.
 
 For the purpose of enabling her to undergo the test to estimate her biological age, the bench asked UP’s additional advocate general   to arrange for her stay in UP Bhawan in Delhi while she awaits the test result.
 
 It also ordered UP police not to arrest her ‘husband’ till the court decided the issue relating to her age. The court also sought the assistance of additional solicitor general Pinky Anand.
 
 If AIIMS finds her age to be the one mentioned in her CBSE certificate, she may have to wait for nearly four years to become a major and walk out of Nari Niketan. However, if AIIMS finds her to be a major, she can go with her husband.
 
