Cultural and geographical factors, and the level of development of different states seem to be more important determinants of how many children a woman has, rather than her religion. The latest state-wise data of the   ( ) 2015-16 shows that the   ( ) of different religious communities shows greater variation between states than between communities. 

 For ins tance, though the all-India TFR - defined as the number of children likely to be born to a woman over her lifetime - is 2.6 for Muslims, compared to 2.1 for Hindus and 2 for Christians, the rate for Muslims varies widely from 1.7 in Tamil Nadu to 4.1 in Bihar, the state with India's highest fertility rate in the country. Similarly, the Hindu TFR ranges from 1.4 in Kerala to 3.3 in Bihar. 
 
  In fact, in Chhattisgarh, the   of 2.1 was lower th an the 2.2 for Hindus, and in Odisha the Muslims had the lowest TFR among the three sizeable religious groups - Hindus, Christians and Muslims. 
 
  While the   was lower than for Hindus or Muslims at the nationwide level, in several northeastern states Christians had significantly higher fertility rates than Hindus. 
 
 
  
 
 
 One result of this kind of wide variation between states is that even Hindus and Muslims - the two religious communities with TFR at or over 2.1 nationally - have fertility rates at or below replacement levels in several states. In the case of Muslims, there are 10 such states. All but one of these ten states had a TFR well below replacement level. In the case of Hindus, there were 22 states where their fertility rate was at or below 2.1. Once again, 18 of these 22 states had an overall TFRs at or below the replacement rate.
 
 Interestingly, though Christians' country-level TFR of 1.99 of the Christian community is well below replacement level, it was clearly above replacement level in most north-eastern states and Chhattisgarh, which are all states with above-replacement level fertility rates. However in the southern states, and in Tripura, Sikkim and West Bengal, the Christian TFR, mirroring the overall TFR of these states, is below replacement level. 
 
 
