Music is synonymous with women and yet, it seems to end with just singing when it comes to film music. One rarely hears of them as creators of music. With such a huge divide existing in the music industry, a young bunch of talented music spinners —  , Jasleen Royal, Rachita Arora and lyricists  , Abhiruchi Chand, Anvita Dutt Guptan and Priya Saraiya — come across as a ray of hope. A sliver of light to music buffs, who would like to see the gender gap close, especially since  , in the past, have proved that creativity is not gender-based.

 Let’s hark back a little to the 1950s — a time when the film industry was known to use verses of renowned poets like Amrita Pritam. Mystical poetess Meerabai also featured as a lyricist in the end credits with tracks like Ghoonghat Ke Pat Khol Re (Jogan, 1950) and Jo Tum Todo Piya (Jhanak Jhanak Payal Baje, 1955). 
 If you step out of the literary world, Jaddanbai (Nargis’ mother and Sanjay Dutt’s grandmother) was said to be one of the first female music directors and lyricists in the industry. Composer OP Nayyar’s wife Saroj Mohini Nayyar wrote the famous track Pritam Aan Milo (Mr & Mrs 55, 1955). Indu Jain penned some memorable tracks in Sai Paranjpye films, including Kahaan Se Aaye Badra (Chashme Baddoor, 1981) and Khali Pyaala Dhoondhla Darpan (Sparsh, 1980).
 The nineties saw lyricist Rani Malik penning popular tracks Tumse Milne Ko Dil Karta Hai (Phool Aur Kaante, 1991), Kya Sochta Hai Ae Dil Kya Sawaal Karta Hai (Sadak, 1991), Chhupana Bhi Nahin Aata (Baazigar, 1993) and Chura Ke Dil Mera Goriya Chali (Main Khiladi Tu Anari, 1994). Maya Govind was quoted in an interview saying, “In a way, I was the first full-fledged woman lyricist. The late actor, Bharat Bhushan, heard my poems and invited me to pen lyrics for his film. Later, I kept getting work through word-of-mouth publicity. Over the years, I have written for some 450 films, including Gaja Gamini, Main Khiladi Tu Anari, Hafta Vasool, among others.” 
 
 
 
 Young lyricist Abhiruchi Chand’s penchant for simplicity reflects in her songs as well. Currently working on the upcoming Varun Dhawan-starrer October, she has penned some heartfelt songs like Le Chal Mujhe (NH10, 2015), Buddhu Sa Mann (Kapoor & Sons, 2016), Dil Jaane Na (Dil Juunglee, 2018), Dhinchakk (Wedding Anniversary, 2017) and more. She says, “Gender has no talent, so I wonder why composing songs and writing lyrics is limited to men in the industry. We certainly have a dearth of women composers and lyricists. Apart from Sneha Khanwalkar, we have hardly heard any other woman composer.”
 
 
 
 Lyricist Prashant Ingole who has ventured into directing, feels that music should not be based on gender. “We have to stop labelling a talent on the basis of gender. Treat them as another human being with talent. I admire the way lyricist Kausar Munir writes. Sneha Khanwalkar is an amazing composer and is one of the best we have today.”
 
 
 
 The music world is not immune to archaic rules and belief systems being followed in some parts of the country. Composer Shreyas Puranik believes that the basic mentality has to change first, in order to pave the way for women music composers and lyricists. “There are areas, where women are still not allowed to be a part of in the industry. I know of big composers (who I cannot name) and singers, who have talented daughters, but they are not allowed to be a part of Bollywood. When that mentality changes, only then will you see women talent rising in music,” he says. He is all praises for the women talent. “To me, Sneha Khanwalkar is the female Amit Trivedi. Anvita Dutt and Kausar Munir are doing different kinds of work.”
 
 
 
 In this male-dominated world of film music, there are some composers who feel that women could lead the music industry to newer heights — be it in music or lyrics writing. Says composer Mannan Shah, “Female artistes are far more evolved and sensitive about their craft. There has been some amazing talent lately in the field of composing and lyrics writing. I’m already a fan of Jasleen Royal. I also love what music composer Rachita Arora has been working on. Mukkabaaz was such a refreshing album. I would love to work with Kausar Munir, she’s one of the finest lyricists we have today.” Abhiruchi adds to the list, “There are also new composers like Samira Koppikar and Rachita Arora, who are doing some great work.”
 
 
 
 Composer-singer Jasleen Royal, who has composed all songs for a recently released film, says, “Most girls want to be singers, they don’t think about composing. When I was growing up, I always looked up to AR Rahman and Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy. When more women get into composing, only then will young girls have someone to look up to.” 
 
 Talking about her experience in the film industry, Jasleen says that she has never faced any problem as a woman composer. “I have had my challenges, but they have not been because I am a female,” she concurs. 
 
