CHENNAI: This is especially disturbing. Tamil Nadu has failed to use ₹37 crore in transport allowances for almost 80% of children with special needs (CWSN) in the state for six years despite funds being allotted by the Centre, show government records accessed by TOI.

 Of the 25,400 such children identified in Tamil Nadu, more than 20,600 did not receive the benefits for more than six years under the Inclusive Education Scheme (IED) of the Union human resource development ministry. Every such child is entitled to an allowance of ₹250 a month for transport or escort facilities as per the policy document on inclusive education for 2016. This hasn’t reached 20,600 CWSN in Tamil Nadu, says   data, indicating that funds worth ₹37 crore were not used for the intended purpose between 2011and 2016.
 
 Besides, nearly 800 CWSN from Trichy, Villupuram and three other districts did not receive equipment, including hearing aids, wheelchairs and calipers as nearly ₹3 crore released towards this too was unused, said a MHRD official.
 
 It is the duty of the state government concerned to provide these benefits to ensure children with disabilities access their schools without difficulty so they can complete elementary education, as per Rule 6 (7) of the   and Compulsory Education (RTE) Rules.
 
 Attempts by TOI to contact officials of the  , a central government-funded programme functioning under the school education department to bolster primary education, failed.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 S Namburajan of the   of Differently Abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC) alleged that the entire scheme was spurious. “Random checks made by our association in Ramanathapuram district revealed that local authorities created fake documents for the sake of records,” he said.
 
 There were stark differences between the number of   and teachers actually present in the district compared to the numbers presented by the authorities, he said.
 
 However, a consultant working with SSA, requesting anonymity, said the issue had been resolved since April 2016 and that funds worth Rs 6 crore allotted towards this component since then. “Now, the allowance is directly transferred to the beneficiaries’ bank account.”
 
