PATNA: Top CPI(Maoist) leader Diwyendu Kumar Singh alias Subodh Singh was arrested from Ram Kahan Path in Bhojpur Colony under the Kankarbagh police station area in the city on early Saturday morning.

 He was arrested in a joint operation of Bihar police’s Special Task Force (STF) and Jharkhand police. STF sources said he was undergoing treatment for severe spine injury he had received during an encounter at Chaibasa in Jharkhand almost a fortnight back.
 
 Diwyendu would be taken on transit remand to Latehar in Jharkhand in a case related to attack on police in January 2017. “Diwyendu, in his late 50s, was a close associate of   Arvind Kumar alias Arvind Kumar Singh, who died recently. He also belongs to the same Sikaria village in Jehanabad from where Arvind hailed,” sources said. Bihar and Jharkhand governments had announced a reward of Rs5 lakh and Rs1 crore respectively on Arvind’s head.
 
 “Diwyendu is the Bihar-Jharkhand special area committee (BJ-SAC) member of CPI(Maoist),” Latehar SP Prashant Anand told TOI over the phone. He said Diwyendu was injured in an encounter in Saranda jungles on May 11.
 
 “Other top Maoists like Sudhakar Reddy and Anal Da were also present at the encounter site, but managed to escape,” the SP said.
 
 He said Diwyendu had come out of Gumla jail in mid-2016. “Police are gathering information about the cases in which he was involved after coming out of jail,” Prashant said.
 
 Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj said Diwyendu was taken to PMCH for his injury and further action would be taken on doctor’s recommendations.
 
 Sources said Diwyendu was arrested with Rs18 lakh from Patrakar Nagar locality in Patna in January 2010. “Diwyendu’s wife, daughter and brother have been living at the rented accommodation in Bhojpur Colony for a long time. He was taking shelter there,” sources said.
 
 They said his daughter had written Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) this year while two of his sons were studying in different engineering colleges outside Bihar.
 
 
