INDORE: The removal wing of   demolished 91 residential buildings in   area on Monday after the   dismissed the occupants’ petition and found no reason to interfere in the matter. 

 A team of some 200 staff along with heavy police force, including female personnel, and senior officials of   and district administration reached the area for the removal drive. The residences, which were causing obstruction in proposed road widening project of the civic body, were razed. Prior to this, power supply of the whole areas was disconnected to avoid any untoward incident and ensure safety of staff carrying the drive. 
 
 The drive, which was led by IMC additional commissioner   began at around 10.20am, and continued till afternoon. As many as five earthmover, four dumpers were pressed into service. 
 
 There were police personnel in and around the area. The civic body also used drone camera to keep an eye on the removal activity. There was no resistance from the residents and most of them had removed their belongings before commencement of the drive.
 
 “Most of the occupants had already vacated the buildings. So we did not have to any difficulty in demolishing those structures,” said Singh. 
 
 He said that they could not remove six buildings in the area as a decision on petition filed by the residents is pending before the high court. “We have marked these buildings with green colour to avoid any confusion between the ones which were to be removed,” he said. 
 
 IMC officials said that the road widening project would begin on the stretch soon. 
 
 The whole stretch from Machhi Bazaar square to   was sealed and entry of locals was restricted during the course of the drive. The civic body officials had also formed separate teams to monitor and carry out demolition activity at different places on the stretch simultaneously. 
 
 A dispute between civic body staff and an auto rickshaw owner also took place during the drive when an earthmover hit his auto-rickshaw. The situation was brought under control after intervention of police officials. 
 
 
