VELLORE: Sriharan alias Murugan, one of the life convicts in   Gandhi   case, was on Saturday   in a   phone and   seizure case, filed against him by   authorities, for want of evidence.

 Judge of the judicial magistrate court – I, Vellore, N Alicia acquitted Murugan under the provision of 255 (1) [if the magistrate, upon taking the evidence referred to in Section 254 and such further evidence, if any, as he may, of his own motion, cause to be produced, finds the accused not guilty, he shall record an order of acquittal of the CrPC. 
 
 “The judge acquitted Murugan citing that the evidence and witnesses were not sufficient to prove the charges against the accused person,” said a police official.
 
 The case dates back to May 2017. A team of prison officials conducted a surprise check on Murugan’s cell in the high-risk prisoners’ block during the late hours of May 25, 2017. They allegedly seized two cell phones (Apple iPhone and Samsung basic model), three SIM cards (Airtel) and a  . They were found hidden behind a photograph of a deity in his cell, said the police official privy to the investigation of the case. 
 
 Following this, jailer Murugesan filed a complaint with Bagayam police against Murugan. The police registered a case under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his/her duty) of the IPC read with 42 (possessing banned gadgets) of the Tamil Nadu Prisoners’ Act.
 
 Murugan, defending the case, cross-examined seven witnesses, including superintendent and jailer of the central prison, raising doubts and suspicions regarding the veracity of the charges. Also, the prison authorities had failed to produce sufficient evidence and witnesses to substantiate the charges. 
 
 Sources said that the police investigation team found three numbers in the phones. But it had failed to produce call logs and other forensic evidence and to establish how the accused sourced the cell phone into the high-security central prison to pin him down. 
 
 The verdict on Saturday brought cheer to Murugan. He was later taken to the Central Prison for Men amid tight security. 
 
 
