CHANDIGARH:  , a van that takes cancer screening to women, is ailing for want of funds. Out since 2012 under an outreach programme for detecting breast and cervix cancer, it has tested 20,992 women in the five years and five months it has been on the road. 

 It has helped bring even those women to the advanced hospital of PGIMER (Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research) who were shying away from taking treatment. However, after completion of five years of this US funded project, there is no money for the maintenance of the van. Its top needs urgent repair. 
 
  
  
 
 The van was an initiative of the   and an American organisation founded by a team of radiologists from Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Maryland, US. Latest population-based cancer survey suggests the burden of this disease to be high in Chandigarh. Among women, breast cancer is the most common, with 35 affected out of every 1 lakh. "The outreach program has been able to screen cervix and breast cancer, besides osteoporosis, in both rural and urban women of Chandigarh. Those who were reluctant to step out of their house for mammography have now joined us in motivating others to come forward," said Dr  , head of the radio-diagnosis department of the PGI, who started this programme.
 
 After the US project's duration ended, the NGOs (non-government organisations) from its areas of operation assumed the responsibility of maintaining the van. Since 2012, various philanthropists have donated a total of Rs 14 lakh too keep it running. With expensive machines installed, the estimated cost of the van's maintenance is Rs 6 lakh for two years. "It took us a while to get fuel for the diagnostic van," said an official in the medical institute. "The PGI has now decided to bear the running cost of the vehicle." 
 
 The doctors behind its wheel have been able to screen 13,455 women for breast cancer, of which 70 were diagnosed with cancer. Colposcopy was done in 13,595 cases for cervical-cancer screening and 10 women were diagnosed with early cervical cancer. Dexa scan, which is a test of bone strength, was administered to 17,722 women, of which 38.6% turned out to have osteopenia and 15.4% were diagnosed with osteoporosis.
 
 
 
