KOLKATA/MIDNAPORE: Chief minister   summoned all the 365 surrendered Maoists, once active in West Midnapore, Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram and Birbhum, at Nabanna on Tuesday, to tell them that they shouldn't pay heed to former police officers. The CM fears that some of them may be hand in glove with the BJP-ruled neighbouring   to rake up trouble in  . 

 This is the first time after their surrender since 2012 that former Maoists - Jagari Baske, Suchitra Mahato and their ilk - had a direct interface with the CM, DGP, home secretary and the police top brass. 
 
 Those at the meeting had no difficulty in understanding that the CM's hint was at retired IPS officer   Ghosh, accused in the cash-for-gold case. The state CID followed it by up by rounding up sub-inspector and Bharati loyalist Rajsekhar   accused in the same case on the same day. The agency took Pyne in custody after he fumbled during questioning based on inputs from arrested police officers Chitta Pal and Subhankar De.
 
 The CM's calling the surrendered Maoists, now posted at the  , to Nabanna two days ahead of her public meeting at the erstwhile Maoist badland   seems to be based on inputs from the West Midnapore SOG cell set up for gathering intelligence from the area. On Friday, Mamata will hold her administrative meeting at the Midnapore Police Lines, where former Jhargram SP Bharati Ghosh spent quite a few years. 
 
 " 't pay heed to those who are not in the police force. Go to the cops if you have any information," the chief minister said to the former Maoists, many of whom had a rapport with Ghosh because she had been instrumental to the back-channel discussions before their surrender. Sources in the government fear that the former SP might be exploiting her old relationships for her own purposes. 
 
 With Ghosh going to ground, fuelling speculation that she might take Bimal Gurung's route and move the   with tacit support from BJP seniors in Delhi, Mamata has reasons to fear fresh trouble in Jangalmahal that is prone to Maoist resurgence. The government is aware of the simmering tension between the Santhals and the Kurmis, particularly because BJP leader Mukul Roy has been sympathising the Kurmi cause. The CM reiterated that her government has written to the Centre recommending ST status for the Kurmis and has also brought out school texts in Alchiki script. "We are looking for an all-round development of the region. Don't give indulgence to evil forces trying to cook up tension in the area. They are doing it for their own survival," she said. 
 
 
