NAGPUR: For the first time since the medal controversy broke out before the convocation,   (NU) vice chancellor SP Kane disclosed that there were “other factors” for awarding   to MA psychology student   during the 105th convocation on March 24.

 Like Vijayshree, there are several students with their CGPA tied for the top spot, but NU had preferred to award the youngest of them to award the medal. Students and teachers had demanded that the person with highest marks should have been awarded a medal in case of a tie of CGPA.
 
 In the light of Kane’s revelation, the spotlight is back on the drawing up of the merit list and calculation of CGPA. Several parents and students had complained to the exam section that their CGPA was wrongly calculated.
 
 In MA psychology, the medal winner decided by NU had the lowest marks among the first three, which perplexed the Bajaj family. On March 24, the Bajaj family had staged a vehement protest at  , where the convocation was organized.
 
 So far, the NU administration had reiterated that the VC had powers to award gold medal in special cases, and Vijayshree’s name was manually added to the list after the protest. Since NU didn’t have an extra medal on hand, it gave her the one that was to be given to another topper who didn’t turn up for the event. After the convocation, officials took back the medal, promising to issue her another medal. Till date, she is yet to get the special gold medal.
 
 On Tuesday, Kane said, “The file to issue the special gold was cleared last week, and the student would soon be handed over the medal.”
 
 At the same time, Kane ruled out any consideration for other toppers with their CGPA tied, but losing out to a younger student. He said, “There were other factors in the MA psychology student case.” He didn’t disclose the other reasons.
 
 Regarding the flawed merit list, Kane said the exam section got very less time to prepare for the convocation.
 
 Narendra Bajaj, Vijayshree’s father, had been doing rounds of the VC office and exam section, but didn’t get a satisfactory reply. “I have been meeting officials once every week but all I am told is that the medal would be given soon,” Bajaj said, adding that his daughter is still coping with the trauma.
 
 Bajaj demanded that NU must make the “other factors” public.
 
 
