NEW DELHI: When Anita Mishra gets on her scooterette, she forgets about her polio, taken over by a sense of freedom that gives her the fire to hit the accelerator and push in the gear. Coming to a women’s biker   and riding alongside the Border Security Force (BSF)   riders is a reinforcement of her view “disabled, but so what?” She, along with eight of her team members, were the women with the ‘safa’ at the women’s biker rally on Sunday.

  
  
 
 The rally, attended by over 1,000 women participants and led by the BSF’s famous Seema Bhawani riders, was flagged off by actor Ajay Devgn from Saket, over a 17 km circuit. The rally was attended by other women empowerment groups and the CISF, along with individual riders who take pride in riding the “very male” motorbikes.
 
 For Kamlesh Panchal, a 40-year-old rider at the rally,   riding is just another step towards equality. “I started out with scooters owned by my uncles and then moved on to bikes, cars, even autos. I always felt that if men are riding these vehicles, why can’t I ride them too? Now I want to drive a bus and then a truck,” she told TOI.
 
  
  
 
 For these women, family support is immense and helpful to pursue their dreams. For example, Kamlesh’s husband was there at the event to nudge her forward, not that she needed the push. First time BSF rider Amandeep had also come all the way from Patiala with her 8-year-old daughter to be a part of the BSF contingent. “My husband is not here, but I brought my daughter for support,” she said, with her daughter riding pillion.
 
 For college student Yashika Sudan, too, it was her father and grandfather who pushed her to register for the rally. “They taught me how to ride and then I taught my brother. People are shocked to see me on the bike but my family is proud of me,” she said. The shock factor remains for a lot of women riders, as they are few and far. “Sometimes, I have taken a few sawaris in my husband’s auto, and they all want to click photos of me. It feels good,” said Mishra.
 
  
  
 
 Mishra came from Narela on her bike after her father dropped her off at a certain point. “It is important for people to see that we as women and as disabled are as able as the men ,” she said.
 
 But also being able to ride alongside the famous Seema Bhawani was a matter of great pride for these riders. The Seema Bhawani contingent, which is famous for its formations and displays on Rajpath for Republic Day, had 31 members in their group this year. And for these BSF women, riding a Royal Enfield is the real pull. “Though at home I prefer my scooterette, I still love my bike,” said Sangeeta Kumar, one of the Seema Bhawani riders. Besides this, there were also 44 riders from CISF. The rally saw a total of 4,436 participants, including pillions.
 
 
