PATIALA:   Liberation Force chief Harminder Singh  , who had escaped from police custody in the 2016 Nabha jailbreak died of cardiac arrest in the central jail here late on Wednesday afternoon, according to jail officials.

 Having led a long terror campaign for separate Sikh state of Khalistan, 51-year-old Mintoo was facing over 10 terror-related cases in various Punjab courts. His name had also recently cropped up in the Punjab targeted killings case and he had been booked by the National Investigation Agency.
 
  
  
 
  Central jail superintendent Rajan Kapoor said Mintoo had appeared before a Jalandhar court via a video conference from the jail on Wednesday afternoon and added that he collapsed in the same barrack after complaining of uneasiness. The militant was rushed to the nearby government hospital, where the doctors declared him brought dead. Following this, his body was shifted to the mortuary of the hospital.
 
 “Elaborate security arrangements have been made around the hospital to prevent any untoward incident and all movement around the mortuary of the hospital has been restricted,” Patiala range inspector-general AS Rai said.
 
 Aprobe has been ordered into Mintoo’s death. ADGP (prisons) IPS Sahota said his department has made a formal request for a judicial probe into the death, as mandated by the jail manual.
 
 There is no confirmation as yet about the cause of death and this will be confirmed only after Mintoo’s autopsy is performed on Thursday. Mintoo had not been keeping well for over one year and had repeatedly been hospitalised.
 
 
 Questions over Mintoo’s death
 
 Mintoo's lawyer Brijinder Singh Sodhi confirmed that he had cardiac problems and had even been admitted to PGI for treatment in May last year.
 
 Damdami   and Dal Khalsa on Wednesday raised questions about the circumstances surrounding Mintoo’s death. In separate statements issued late on Wednesday, the two organisations demanded that an investigation should be ordered into the   chief’s death in the jail. Mintoo along with five other inmates of the Nabha maximum security jail had escaped in a November 2016 jailbreak.
 
 However, he was arrested within 24 hours by the Delhi police at a railway station when he was trying to buy a rail ticket to Goa. The KLF chief had earlier been arrested in November 2014 by the Punjab police from the Indira Gandhi International Airport on his return from Thailand.
 
 Mintoo, according to his lawyer, hailed from Dalli village of Punjab’s Jalandhar district. But his wife and children are based in Canada now and his brother lives in Goa. The lawyer has managed to contact Mintoo’s brother Satinder in Goa and he will be arriving in Patiala by Thursday afternoon.
 
 Mintoo was accused of involvement in various terror cases, including an attack on the Dera Sacha Sauda chief. The KLF chief was also accused of hatching a conspiracy, at the behest of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence, to revive terrorism in Punjab.
 
