LUCKNOW: In a chilling   in the state capital, dacoits struck at will — 3rd time in four days — at two villages in   late on Monday night.

 This time, they targeted four houses in one hour in which one person was killed and six villagers suffered injuries. While the gang was on the rampage in Sarawan and Munshiganj villages, SP (rural) Satish Kumar was patrolling just 500 metres away in Miraganj. The gang robbed three families within a span of 40 minutes and were trying to target a fourth house when police jeeps blaring siren arrived, forcing them to escape.
 
 However, none of the seven masked men who were carrying guns, crow bars, iron bars could be intercepted.
 
  
 
 Recalling the incident, Sarawan resident   said, “Armed dacoits stormed the house of former pradhan Parmeshwar Rawat around 2am. One of them knocked and when Parmeshwar opened the door, he dealt a severe blow on his head with an iron bar. When Parmeshwar’s son, Shamu Rawat (45), tried to resist the dacoits shot him dead. They brutally thrashed remaining family members and looted cash and jewellery. They robbed two more houses similarly and left by 2.45am. All of them had covered their faces.”
 
 The dacoits took away Rs 5 lakh in cash that Shamu had kept in his house to buy a mango orchard.
 
 
 
 
 The dacoits next targeted the house of Chhatrapal Yadav and on failing to gain entry, they fired three rounds, hitting Yadav in his right leg. The miscreants looted Rs 50,000 in cash and jewellery worth Rs 2 lakh.
 
 The dacoits then moved to Munshiganj were they stormed into the house of Shiv Kumar Kanaujiya. “They thrashed my husband with iron rods and took away all my jewellery worth lakhs, besides cash,” said Kumar’s wife Laxmi.
 
 The dacoits then headed the house of Awadesh, 50 metres away. By the time Awadesh took out his rifle, a police party patrolling in Mirajganj arrived blaring sirens. But the dacoits managed to escape with the booty.
 
 SP (rural) was the first to arrive, after which SSP Lucknow and CO Malihabad reached the spot. ADG (Lucknow zone) Abhay Prasad and IG (Lucknow range) Jai Narain Singh also visited the villages.
 
 The injured were admitted to KGMU’s trauma centre by police.
 
 SSP Lucknow Deepak Kumar said three persons have been detained and said that the dacoity looks like the handiwork of a gang from Etah.
 
 SSP Kumar said the modus operandi resembles with that in the dacoity in Kakori. “We have zeroed in on a gang from Etah which has settled in Tirwa area of Kannauj and takes Bangarmau road to enter Lucknow, commits dacoities and escapes,” said Kumar.
 
 The recent spate of dacoities has instilled fear among the people in colonies on the outskirts of the city.
 
 When the body of Shamu Rawat reached the village after autopsy, irate villagers blocked the Lucknow-Hardoi highway for four hours.
 
 “We only want to sleep in peace and nothing else. Policemen are rarely seen at night. We tell police in which direction a trap needs to be laid after an incident and work with them closely. But year after year, Kakori, Malihabad and Mall continue to become targets of violent gangs,” said Awadesh Yadav, the pradhan of Sarawan village.
 
 Angry crowd also gheraoed Malihabad police station and demanded suspension of local policemen and district police chief.
 
 The crowds budged after a compensation of Rs 8 lakh was announced for the family of the deceased.
 
 
 
