KOCHI: Kerala will soon have womb transplant for women who are unable to conceive. 

 The directorate of medical education, Kerala, gave certificate of registration to Sunrise Hospital, Kochi, to carry out organ transplantation of the uterus for five years after inspecting its facilities. With this, the hospital becomes the second centre in the country to get permission for womb transplant.
 
 The certificate issued on January 5, 2018, states that any lapses can lead to cancellation of licence.
 
 "There are lots of patients who are unable to become pregnant due to damaged or absent uterus. The transplant will be useful for such patients to have a child and also avoid surrogacy," said laparoscopic surgeon Dr Hafeez  .
 
 Womb transplant was first done in   in 2012 and the first baby, born to the recipient in 2014, was delivered prematurely through Caesarean section, and was healthy, according to the British medical journal  . There are so far, five uterine transplants and two kids have been born. Rest failed. The first womb transplant in India was done at a Pune hospital in 2017 when they transferred a mother's uterus to her 21-year-old daughter. The cost of the procedure is around Rs 4 - 5 lakh.
 
 According to Dr Rahman, the transplantation is not known to harm the recipient or the baby despite the use of anti-rejection drugs (immuno-suppressants) and the multiple surgeries involved. "Also after the baby is delivered, the transplanted uterus can be removed so that they don't have to take immuno-suppressants for the rest of their life to avoid rejection of the donor uterus," said Dr Rahman.
 
 The hospital plans to conduct uterine transplant soon and said that already three families have shown interest. "In a month or two, we intend to do the uterine transplant. We will be selecting a patient with adenomyosis (a condition in which the inner lining of the uterus (the endometrium) breaks through the muscle wall of the uterus) as in most cases their ovary would be normal. The donor would be a mother or sister," added Dr Rahman.
 
 
