BHOPAL: The city seems to be no place for the elderly. An 85-year-old watchman of a farmhouse was hacked to death by a co-worker in   locality on Tuesday. 

 The octogenarian was hit by an axe a couple of times because the accused suspected him of having an illicit affair with his wife. The 35-year-old man allegedly saw the watchman holding his wife that made him fume with anger. He got an axe and hit the elderly man on his head. He died on the spot.
 
 Cops reached the spot after getting information from the farmhouse owner's son and nabbed the accused.
 
 SHO Sukhi Sewania police station Mahendra Mishra said the farmhouse belongs to Subhash Sharma, a resident of  . It is located Ganiyari in Sukhi Sewania locality. The deceased has been identified as  , a resident of Gairatganj in Raisen district. He was working as a watchman-cum-caretaker of the farmhouse since the last 40 years. He resided at the farmhouse alone as his wife passed away 15 years back. Two of his sons live in Gairatganj and one in Bhopal.
 
 The accused has been identified as Kailash Goud, a resident of Punia village in   that falls in Raisen district and has been working in the farmhouse since the last ten months. He is a father of three children.
 
 The ghastly incident took place on Tuesday at around 11 am. Kailash told police that he had gone out to the field around 10 am. At that time, his wife was cleaning wheat, while his children were playing in the courtyard. When he returned, he saw Suraj hugging his wife. As soon as he saw Kailash, he moved away and started picking out nails from a plank. Kailash claimed he had seen Suraj hugging his wife many-a-times in the past, but he had controlled his anger. 
 
 Suspecting his wife of having an illicit affair with Suraj, he rushed to the godown and soon returned with an axe. In a fit of rage, he went towards Suraj, who was sitting on a chair under a tree and struck with the axe. Then Kailash rushed towards his wife and hit her, but she managed to take the axe and was left with an injury in her hand.
 
 
