GAYA: The National Commission for Minorities has expressed its reservations over installation of door frame and hand-held metal detectors at the main entrance of the world heritage site   at Bodh  .

 The commission, which is also averse to body search of the pilgrims, has recommended replacement of the metal detectors with sophisticated and less-visible body scanners.
 
 Sulekha Kumbre, a member of the commission, told mediapersons in Gaya on Thursday that the existing arrangement was not visitor or devotee-friendly. She said the commission has recommended installation of an advanced security system in place of the conventional metal detectors and other obtrusive gadgets.
 
 “Without compromising with the shrine security, the sentiments of the Buddhist clergy and other followers of the faith have to be properly acknowledged,” the commission member said.
 
 Gaya DM Abhishek Singh, the ex-officio chairman of Bodh   Management Committee, said his office has received the proposal of the commission. “The technical feasibility and financial viability of the proposed advanced security system will be studied,” he added.
 
 Ever since terrorist attack at Mahabodhi Mahavihara and low intensity serial blasts on the temple premises on July 7, 2013, in which two monks were injured, the shrine security has been a major area of concern for both the state government and the Union home ministry.
 
 On January 19 too, a low-intensity blast took place at Kalchakra Maidan, about 200 metres to the northwest of the shrine and explosives were recovered from a point closer to the shrine’s main entrance.
 
 A proposal for providing security in and around the shrine premises by Central Industrial Security Force is pending with the Union home ministry. Sources said the Centre wanted either the shrine management committee or the state government to bear the Rs 15 crore per annum establishment cost for the maintenance of about 150 CISF personnel of different ranks. The state government, on the other hand, wants the Centre to foot the bill on account of Bodh Gaya’s international importance. 
 
 
