PATIALA: A 13-year-old   from Ambala who was rescued on Thursday by the members of the district child protection office (DCPO) and district child welfare committee (DCWC) was found to be 22 months pregnant with 22 weeks old fetus. It is learned that the doctors at the   have refused an abortion.

 The committee members, however, are waiting for the mother of the rape survivor to give consent for the abortion as the victim herself is too young to take a decision. However, despite numerous attempts, police have not been able to contact the family members.
 
 DCWC members said that they are yet to counsel the survivor but may approach the   seeking approval for abortion. Doctors said that rape survivor is suffering from anemia.
 
 The doctors added that it is a high risk to proceed with the surgery of a patient having haemoglobin presence below 8 gm. “The mother of the victim is yet to reach Ambala as the rape survivor hails from West Bengal. The doctors have conducted the ultrasound of the rape survivor and confirmed that fetus is 22 weeks old (around 6 months).
 
 “The girl is unaware of the abortion and we will soon conduct her counselling. We will tell her about the pregnancy and the abortion of the foetus to take place. The haemoglobin of the victim is also 6.4 gm which is not enough to perform the abortion as doctors revealed to us,” said,   of DCWC Ambala.
 
 
 
 
 We will move the court to get permission for the abortion after we have the consent of the rape survivor and her parents. The court will probably set up a board of doctors that will decide over the matter,” said, Dr Sangeeta Mathur, member of DCWC Ambala.
 
 The district administration and health authorities had no clue about Supreme Court guidelines to form a permanent board of three doctors including two gynaecologists in all the states and Union Territories.
 
 The Ambala deputy commissioner and the members of DCPO were unaware of any such committee suggesting the CMO is the right person to comment.
 
