JAIPUR: South-west monsoon is likely to enter southern   by June 20. As IMD, Delhi has said that the south west monsoon is expected to arrive three days prior to the actual date so there is also a possibility of early monsoon in Rajasthan. However, the widespread monsoon activity is likely to be witnessed from June 26 onwards.

 
 The   (IMD), Jaipur on Thursday stated that it is likely to enter Rajasthan from the southern side of the state by June 20. Still it will all depend on its onset dates in Kerala and further progress from June 1.
 
 “There is a possibility that south west monsoon is likely to enter the state by June 20 from Kota and Jhalawar districts and it is likely to have a widespread activity by June 26 onwards in Rajasthan,” said an officer with the IMD, Delhi.
 
 In 2017, Rajasthan had witnessed a good rainfall in all its districts except barring a few. This year the IMD has also forecast for a normal monsoon which would be around 95 percent.
 
 IMD has further said that the pre-monsoon activity is likely to start in some parts of Rajasthan from June 8 onwards when humidity levels start rising. “Usually for the onset of monsoon the humidity levels should be around 90% and above. By the first week of January the humidity levels will start increasing,” said an officer.
 
 Entrance of south west monsoon in Rajasthan usually depends on when it enters Maharatasta and Gujarat. It is usually expected that Rajasthan gets monsoon rainfall almost 10 days after it reaches Gujarat.
 
 Meanwhile, dust storm and thundershowers continued at many places in the state.   remained hottest in the state where a maximum temperature of 44.9 degrees Celsius was recorded. In Jaipur a maximum temperature of 42.2 degrees Celsius was recorded.   was followed by Barmer with 44.6 degrees Celsius, Jaisalmer 43.6, Churu and Kota 43.0 degrees Celsius each, Jodhpur 42.9, Sriganganagar 42.5, Bikaner and Ajmer 42.0 degrees Celsius each, and Pilani with 39.7 degrees Celsius.
 
 In its forecast Jaipur Met office said that mild showers will occur at many places in the state while dust storm would be witnessed at a few places in the next 24 hours.
 
 
