The Theni police late on Wednesday arrested Erode-based tour organiser D   on charges of taking trekkers illegally into the reserved forest area. In Chennai, the police are trying to locate  , founder of Chennai Trekking Club through which a group of 26 people went for the trek.

 Theni district superintendent of policeM Baskaran told TOI a special team arrested Prabhu for “trespassing intothe reserve forest and for taking the trekkers in a negligent manner.”
 
 Prabhu, who ran Tour De India Holidays at   near Thindal in   district, used to organise treks in Erode and  . “He got customers through Facebook regularly,” said a senior Theni police officer seeking anonymity. This time, he had taken 11 trekkers to the Kurangani hills. This was one of the two groups caught in the forest fire on Sunday. After the tragedy, the K Vilakku police picked up Prabhu for questioning and found he took the group to Kolukkumalai, a restricted area. Foresters said trekkers can be allowed only in a few areas. “They will not be allowed in the reserve forest area at any cost,” said an official. He added that Prabhu paid ?200 per head to the forest department as entry fee. “He can take trekkers only on the specified pathway and not into the reserve forest,” he added.
 
 According to the K Vilakku police, the team reached Kurangani in a van on March
 
 10. Ranjith, a local guide, took it to Kolukkumalai around 6 pm, where they met the team of 26, led by Arun from Chennai. On March11, both groups went to a tea factory.
 
 All had lunch at Othamaram. At that point, Ranjith gotknews of thefire and urge all trekkers to get down soon. “He led them through the reserve forest where they got caught in the fire,” police said.
 
 In Chennai, a team led by Theni inspector   visited Peter’s residence at Palavakkam where neighbours said he had vacated the house two months ago. As he stayed aloof and didn’t mingle with the neighbours, they did not have any information about his new residence.
 
 The Neelankarai police said: “We have collected his mobile number and got his call details. We are trying to locate him by inquiring with those he spoke to before he turned off his mobile.”
 
 The Chennai city police have also sought the help of the cyber crime wing experts to track down Peter, as he is still active on social media. Police sources said that Peter was interacting with some of his CTC office-bearers. “We are tracking him,” said a police officer.
 
