CHANDIGARH: Varnika Kundu’s father, Varinder Singh Kundu, said in court here on Tuesday that he spoke to Haryana ex-CM   Hooda, INLD leader Abhay Chautala, and nine serving and retired IAS officers, after his daughter was allegedly stalked on August 5.

 Kundu — who appeared in the court of civil judge Brijinder Pal Singh and was cross-examined by defence counsel Rabindra Pandit — said politicians and bureaucrats had phoned him just to enquire about the incident, after they read about it in the news. He said he did not use his connections with them to pressure the police to press non-bailable charges against the accused in the high-profile   — Haryana BJP chief Subhash Barala’s son Vikas and his friend Ashish Kumar.
 
 Vikas and Kumar are accused of allegedly stalking and attempting to abduct Varnika on August 4 midnight. Varnika had filed a complaint with the police in the early hours of August 5. Kundu said it was he, and not Varnika, who wrote the police complaint too, saying that his daughter was “sobbing” and he kept “consoling” her, and at the end he wrote the complaint as narrated by Varnika.
 
 Kundu denied having used an “IAS lobby” to falsely implicate Vikas. He also refuted defence counsel Rabindra Pandit’s claim that it was due to his pressure and influence that UT home secretary   appointed the district attorney as special public prosecutor in the case. Public prosecutor Manu Kakar also objected to this claim.
 
 For now, teh court has been adjourned the hearing of the case to February 6.
 
 Giving the names of IAS officers he spoke to, Kundu said he had telephonic conversations with Giriraj, Ajit Balaji Joshi, Urvashi Gulati, Alok Nigham, Harsharan Das, Varinder Dahiya, Kesni Anand Arora, Sandeep Kaushal, and Jatinder Dhesi.
 
 He denied suggestions of the defence that the entire IAS lobby joined hands to pressure Chandigarh Police to add non-bailable offences in the FIR. Kundu refused to share his email address with the defence counsel, saying he apprehended that his email and Facebook profile could be hacked.
 
 
 
 
 The defence counsel asked Kundu whether he received an email from Varnika on August 17, 2017, regarding her conversation with police and produced an e-mail conversation between the father-daughter duo.
 
 The defence said a copy of the conversation was submitted to the court during a bail petition filed by Vikas on September 12. The prosecution, however, objected to this, questioning the source of the conversation and saying that it was a personal dialogue between a father and daughter.
 
 The court then sought record of the court from where the prosecution claimed to have procured the emailed conversation.
 
 Vikas Barala, son of Haryana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief  , and his friend Ashish were booked for stalking Varnika and released on bail soon after. As public outrage erupted, police added the charge of attempt to kidnap and rearrested them a few days later. The accused maintained that suspicion could not be the basis of the charges.
 
