GURUGRAM: More than eight months after evidence was found of a bead workshop in Kunal, Fatehabad, a team of archaeologists will be setting out for the   in January for what they hope will be fresh discoveries. 

 This site, three hours out of Gurgaon, is known to date back to the early   era, though it has been speculated that it goes even further back. It is the oldest site to have been discovered in Haryana.
 
 The team, says Banani Bhattacharya – deputy director, department of archaeology and museums, Government of Haryana – is keen on understanding more about settlement patterns in the area. “It’s an early  , and we have got evidence up to the PGW (painted grey ware) culture also,” she told TOI, adding, “We have to see if the PGW culture correlates with the late Harappan phase, or if it’s a separate culture altogether.”
 
 The painted grey ware culture is an Iron Age culture that predominated from around 1200 BCE to 800 BCE, in a swathe of land which today roughly corresponds to that straddling eastern Pakistan and northwestern and central India.
 
 The archaeologists will be hoping to cover more digs in 2018, as they seek further information about the settlement, including details on its layout. “In Kunal, there was an industrial area which was separate from the main area of habitation. The latter is in the centre of the mound, but the former area may be outside of the main settlement,” Bhattacharya explained.
 
 This was the first time that such a workshop was discovered in the state (incidentally, a copper smelting zone was unearthed here in the 1990s). But it differed from other workshops found elsewhere, in that steatite (soapstone) was being used to make beads of exceptional quality.
 
 For, when it came to trade, beads were among the most important items. “The raw materials for these beads came to Kunal from Gujarat and Rajasthan, but the skilled workers were in Haryana, making beads from carnelians, agate, jasper and lapis lazuli,” described Bhattacharya.
 
 Moreover, there’s proof that there was contact with other areas, up to Central Asia, and maybe as far afield as Mesopotamia. “For example, we also found some gold beads, which must have come from somewhere else since there is no gold mine in the surrounding area.
 
 “The routes of that age, that is something we have to decipher,” Bhattacharya added. It remains to be seen whether the latest phase of excavations will help archaeologists and historians get closer to solving the fascinating jigsaw puzzle that is Harappan (and pre-Harappan) India.
 
 The excavations are being conducted by the Haryana Archaeology Department, the National Museum (New Delhi) and the Indian Archaeological Society (New Delhi).
 
