VIJAYAWADA: The city was buzzing as the three-day long   festivities began on Sunday. Bhogi celebrations organised by various voluntary groups received huge response from citizens. 

 The celebrations started with huge Bhogi   (bonfire) on streets. Events organized by Amravati Utsav Samithi at Krishna Lanka attracted large crowds. Endowments minister P Manikyala Rao launched the celebrations by lighting bonfire with 1.25 lakh cow dung cakes. Thousands of denizens participated in this event, and offered special prayers.
 
 “Sankranti is a special festival for Telugu people, and the bonfire reminds us of celebrations in villages,” said Manikyala Rao. He appreciated the organisers for conducting the event on a huge scale. Kite flying competitions, and games for children held on the occasion.
 
 Hundreds of women participated in rangoli competitions and village sports. Makara Jyothi Gottumukkala, a homemaker, said: “Using the floor as canvas, and painting is a great feeling. Rangoli competitions reminded me of my childhood. Today’s youth have forgotten this great art, which is a part of our culture.” 
 
 A walk and a bonfire organised by Siddhartha Walker’s association and Vijayawada East legislator Gadde Rama Mohana Rao, at Siddhartha Public School, received massive response. Hundreds of walkers participated in the mega walk. 
 
 “Organizing a mega walk on Bhogi day has become a tradition for Siddhartha walkers. It gives us strength, and traditional Sankranti celebrations refresh us,” said  , a member of the organistaion. 
 
 A traditional fashion show at GSR Raju Road in   was a special attraction in the city. Vijayawada central legislator   participated in the event and distributed prizes.
 
 Member of Andhra Pradesh legislative council, Buddha Venkanna, began the celebrations with traditional Sankranthi Sambaralu in Bhavanipuram, where cockfights were also organised. Venkanna asked denizens to enjoy cockfights without tying knives to the roosters, in accordance with the Supreme court’s directives.
 
 
