NAGPUR: Overuse of   and Internet is responsible for giving rise to ‘dry eyes’, a condition which is becoming increasingly prevalent in today’s society, said noted eye surgeon Queresh Maskati. Maskati inaugurated the installation ceremony of members of Ophthalmological Society, Nagpur (OSN), held at a city hotel on Sunday. Dr YS Deshpande, President, IMA Maharashtra State, was the guest of honour. Dr   was installed as the president, and Dr Rishikesh Mayee as the secretary.

 “Not spending enough time outdoors, and increased interaction with gadgets and devices has become a part of our culture today. Normally, we blink 30 times in a minute. But when we are occupied on a computer or our mobiles, we hardly blink ten times a minute. This causes the tears in the eyes to dry up, and causes the need to apply tear drops,” said Maskati, adding that once caused, the condition takes four or five years to heal completely.
 
 Little lifestyle modifications such as closing eyes for a minute every half an hour, remembering to blink often while using gadgets, etc can go a long way in helping avoid this condition. Dr Rahatekar added, “Environmental pollution and dust is also known to give rise to infection in the eye, and causing the surface of the eye to become unhealthy. A person in this condition doesn’t require spectacles or treatment, but yet complains of tired eyes and blurred vision. This affects one’s work to a great extent by reducing productivity.” Apart from above causes, dry eyes is caused in elderly people by ageing, and in young people as a result of infection, allergy or Vitamin A deficiency, she added. Drinking enough water, and taking breaks from work are some of the remedies in avoiding this condition. At least forty per cent people in their middle age suffer from dry eyes, she said.
 
 Talking of her vision for the coming year, Rahatekar said she plans to organize workshops on newer techniques in treating cataract as well as on new lenses. “I will also be consulting NMC and IMA in an attempt to help young doctors establish their practice. Eyes are affected a great deal due to diabetes and hypertension. Our plan is to work with   in the field to reduce the percentage of cases in the regard,” she said.
 
 
