INDORE: Over 10,000 tribal people from 50 villages of Dhar, Jhabua, Alirajpur, Barwani and Khargone districts gathered at Sodul village of   tehsil in Dhar on Sunday to register their   against acquisition of their land for setting up a cement factory in Manawar. 

 The protesters even threatened of not casting their votes if the government does not return their land before the upcoming assembly elections in Madhya Pradesh. They also demanded jobs in the cement factory for 75 percent of the unemployed youth of the area.
 
 “At least 75 percent of the posts in medical, engineering, and supervisory posts of the factory should be reserved for local tribal youth,” they demanded. 
 
 Addressing the gathering, Jai Adivasi Yuva Shakti national convener Dr Heeralal   said, land belonging to scheduled caste (SC) or scheduled tribe (ST) people cannot be bought by a non-tribal. Constitution provides some general restrictions on sale of land belonging to  .
 
 Land belonging to scheduled caste (SC) or scheduled tribe (ST) people cannot be bought by a non-tribal. Constitution provides some general restrictions on sale of land belonging to tribals, he added.
 
 “Innocent tribal people from 32 villages have been relocated and their land has been acquired for setting up of a cement factory in Dhar,” said Alawa adding that the state government will have to return the lands of tribal people. 
 
 He said that 95 percent of the land on which the industrial project is being developed belongs to the tribal people. They have been paid scanty amount of compensation as compared to the current market value of their lands. “The lands have been acquired by duping innocent villagers and we are not going to allow the government to develop this cement factory,” Alawa said. 
 
 A ST land holder can only sell his land to a ST, then how can government acquire their land and give it to a non-tribal organisation for establishing a cement factory, he reiterated. 
 
 The other members of Jai Adivasi Yuva Shakti also stressed on implementation of fifth and sixth schedules of the Constitution of India for safeguarding the rights of tribal people. 
 
 
