GUWAHATI: A day after students of   (ADBU) lodged a complaint to the   alleging of lack of basic amenities on campus,   authorities on Tuesday refuted all charges, claiming that the Tapesia campus has a proper Right to Information Cell, an   and a placement officer, besides adding that there are proper internet facilities and measures taken to maintain cleanliness on campus. 

 "The university continuously reviews all its processes to ensure continuous improvement for success in accordance with statutory norms as well as setting a benchmark against other institutions," said the director of the school of humanities and social sciences at ADBU, Riju Sharma. She added that a dedicated house-keeping staff works tirelessly for the upkeep and cleanliness of the entire university. 
 
 ADBU authorities also said they have a comprehensive care system for students in place, which includes student induction and development programmes, activity clubs, career guidance cell, training and placement cell with an officer, and an entrepreneurship development and incubation centre.
 
 It added that emphasis is given on awareness and counseling to ensure that complaints will be dealt with in a sensitive, fair, timely and confidential manner. They further clarified that a gender amity committee was set up in 2012 and after the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 was passed by the Centre, this committee was renamed as the Internal Complaint Committee (ICC) as per the Act.
 
 Authorities also said the campus has an NKN 1 Gbps leased line and a   20 Mbps leased line with several servers for internet and intranet. The libraries are virtually centralized and offer access to thousands of textbooks and leading e-journals. "The department of mass communication is well-equipped with all the necessary facilities such as professional editing suite, audio recording studio, digital cameras and digital recorders. In fact, the department is one of the few media departments in this region to have a state-of-the-art indoor photography studio," the university in a statement said.
 
 
