NOIDA: Daily commuters have been reported to be spending around an hour to 70 minutes in snarls on the   while travelling from Delhi to Noida and back during peak hours, since the toll on the route was removed in October 2017. It has also seen a 62% rise in traffic during this period.

 Regular commuters travelling from Delhi on the Mayur Vihar extension or the Noida entry gate to Noida on the DND Flyway, have to battle slow traffic and intermittent snarls on  , which leads from the Noida entry gate to Noida-Greater Noida Expressway.
 
 Data from Flyway officials suggests that while an estimated 1,25,000 vehicles used the route daily before the toll was removed, it has now reached around two lakh — a 62.5% rise.
 
 A commuter travelling from Delhi to Noida via the Mayur Vihar extension crosses Noida entry gate on Dadri main road, which has several exits to its left — three loops leading to DND, a turn towards Sector 15, and others towards Sector 16A (Film City) and Sector 18.
 
 The biggest bottlenecks form near the spot where the second exit loop from DND towards Film City, and Dalit Prerna Sthal, merges with the Expressway, with morning traffic regularly getting stuck for around 20 minutes here. Here, it joins traffic approaching Noida from the Mayur Vihar extension side, and begins to crawl.
 
 “Mondays are the worst. After getting stuck at the mouth of the DND exit loop, traffic again gets stuck near the left turn towards Sector 16A (Film City),” said Arun Sharma, who drives to his office in Film City from Delhi everyday.
 
 In the evening, commuters headed from Noida towards Delhi have to battle extremely slow traffic from around 2km before the DND exit near Ashram. That the number of vehicles is the main culprit for the logjam is clear from the fact that congestion reduces noticeably on Fridays andis almost nil on weekends, when the logjam shifts to the Shahdara bridge connecting Film City to the malls in Sector 18.
 
 Sheetal Vij, who regularly travels from Delhi to Noida via DND, said she avoids travelling on the stretch between 9am and 10am. 
 
 “I either leave early, or after 10am. Traffic slows down before the second cut on DND, which takes you to Film City via a loop exit, and connects you with the Expressway. It gets worse after 6.30pm in the evening. On the Noida side, the Expressway clears up once you’ve crossed the left turn towards Sector 18 ahead of the Dalit Prerna Sthal. However, it is chock-a-block on the Delhi side,” she said.
 
 While Vij said she spends around 20-25 minutes extra during peak morning hours, snarls near the DND exit towards Delhi cost her an additional 45 minutes in the evenings, she said.
 
 Traffic police have tried to reduce the congestion, succeeding to some extent. Making the stretch signal-free during peak hours and closing the two U-turns opposite the two Sector 15A entries, seem to have helped, but with the ever-increasing traffic flow on both sides, cops said only an engineering intervention can reduce the congestion in future.
 
 It is also believed that the U-turn, which has recently cropped up between Noida entry gate and the first entry to Sector 15A, may have have slowed down traffic on the Delhi-bound carriageway even further. 
 
 The U-turn was a demand of Sector 15A residents, who wanted an easy exit to Dadri main road and onwards to the Expressway, when other cuts are closed during peak hours.
 
 Traffic police suggested that the DND exit loop leading to Dadri main road could be widened to increase the intake of traffic.
 
 “Four-lane traffic meets a bottleneck as it tries to enter the two-lane loop. It can be broadened to ease traffic flow, but dimensions have to be checked. We’ve noted that around 60% of traffic coming via DND exits via this loop onto the Expressway,” SP (traffic) Anil Jha told TOI.
 
 Sandeep Chandra, incharge of the   traffic cell, disagreed. “Broadening the DND exit loop is not an option. The bottleneck is formed because of the Expressway link road. Even if you broaden the loop, the bottleneck will just shift 600m ahead, on to Dadri main road. It’s not going to help in the long run,” he said.
 
 But officials agreed that with increase in traffic from Delhi, and development of new sectors along the Expressway, they don’t really have a plan to manage the daily congestion, which is bound to rise in the future.
 
 “There has to be a plan. It’s a developing city. More and more projects are coming up. Although as of now delivery of a lot of projects is held up, but just think of the time when builders start delivering? The Authority appears to have a plan for the buyers, but do they have a plan for consequent traffic flow?” asked a traffic police officer.
 
 
