CHANDIGARH: The recent letter sent by   to minority   in the city, asking for various details regarding their  , seems to have started a war of letters between schools and the department. 

 In a reply to the department’s letter, Independent Schools Association (ISA), sent a letter refusing to submit the details asked for on Monday. Ignoring the same, UT   again sent a letter to all minority schools asking them to send the details at the earliest.
 
  (DEO) sent a reminder to all minority schools to send the details as per the proforma sent to them on March 10. Department officials said the seven schools, which had complied with the orders, have been asked to send the details again in a specific format. “Only around seven schools have submitted the details. But, they have only shared the details about the number of students they had admitted under land allotment scheme, whereas other required details asked for have not been shared. So a reminder has been sent to all 22 minority schools in the city again,” said an official source, requesting anonymity.
 
 Talking about the reply sent by ISA on behalf of its minority school members, the official said, “We will be framing a suitable reply to it soon.”
 
 On Monday, TOI had reported that ISA, through a mail, refused to give details regarding their minority status as asked by the district education office stating that these were asked in an attempt to “blackmail, harass and arm-twist” the minority schools. 
 
 The mail further read, “It is clear that your attempt is only to collect evidence against the minority schools in Chandigarh and thereafter use the same against them.” 
 
 ISA president HS Mamik confirmed the reaction of the minority schools.
 
 On March 10, DEO office had asked all 22 minority schools in the city to give details like date of allotment of land in UT Chandigarh, details mentioned in object clause or any other clause to incorporate the clause to impart education to minority communities, date-wise changes/amendments in object clause or any other clause and seats filled under land allotment clause. The last date to submit the required details was scheduled on March 23. 
 
 Only a few minority schools have been filling seats as per their land allotment condition while the others have refrained from doing so by quoting the judgement passed by minority commission last year in case of St Kabir School in Sector 26 where it was stated that no reservations can be imposed on minority schools by the UT education department.
 
 
