PUNE: The proposed 129km ring road around the city would get an allocation of Rs 2,468 crore under the Centre’s Bharatmala project in the next financial year.

 The project found a special mention in Union finance minister Arun Jaitley’s Budget speech on Wednesday. He made an allocation of Rs 5,35,000 crore for 28 ring roads across the country, including the proposed ring road in the city.
 
 The ring roads in Pune and Bengaluru have been put on the priority list. These roads are expected to ensure better connectivity to highways, reducing the ordeal of travelling through the “congested” interiors of the city.
 
 Besides Pune and Bengaluru, Varanasi, Lucknow, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Nagpur and   would also benefit from ring roads under the Bharatmala project. Jaitley said 35,000km of roads would be laid in the first phase of the project at an estimated cost of Rs5,35,000 crore.
 
  
  
 
  (PMRDA) commissioner   told TOI that of the 32km stretch of the ring road’s first phase, land for 12km had been acquired. It would connect   highway to   highway.
 
 PMRDA had sought Rs 2,468 crore for it. He said they were now upbeat about getting the funding, which would speed up the link road.
 
 The total cost of the 129km ring road, linking three highways around Pune and  , is expected to be a little more than Rs 17,000 crore. Of this, Rs12,000 crore is expected to be funded under the Bharatmala project. The remaining funds would be generated through town planning schemes and land monetization models, Gitte said.
 
 The ring road is expected to decongest the traffic on internal roads in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad because most heavy transport vehicles would travel on it. The ring road link would improve the traffic flow on internal roads as well.
 
 Besides the ring roads around big cities, the Bharatmala project would cover 45 bypasses, and 34 projects of expanding lanes and flyovers. All these works would be undertaken in the next one-and-a-half years to end traffic congestion in urban areas. 
 
 The focus of the entire programme is to provide better connectivity and improve mobility. across the major cities in India.
 
 
