Panaji: With Niti Aayog encouraging strategic sale of public sector units, including state-owned shipyards, the ministry of defence may allow Goa Shipyard Limited to be listed on stock exchanges through an initial public offering ( ) in a year, chairman and managing director of Goa Shipyard Limited ( ) Shekhar Mital said.

 The central government has not made any official communication regarding the move to take the company public, but with a proven track record and a healthy balance sheet, the chances are high, said Mital.
 
 “The government has to decide. But as of now, there is no official communication,” Mital told TOI. 
 
 “Very specifically, nothing has been decided, nothing has been spoken or said to us.”
 
 The central government recently put up shares of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited for sale through the stock exchanges and the scrip was undersubscribed. This could prompt the ministry of defence and the Niti Aayog to rethink any immediate plans to float an IPO for other defence public sector units.
 
 GSL is a profit-making firm with a production value of Rs 1,371 crore in 2017-18.
 
 The company recently signed a pact with Rolls-Royce to manufacture technologically-advanced MTU Series 8,000 engines, used in offshore patrol vessels, in the country.
 
 “We have a proven capability. Turnover wise, there is no problem,” Mital said.
 
 With an eye on indigenously manufacturing mine-counter measure vessels and guided-missile stealth frigates for the Indian Navy, GSL has invested close to Rs 1,000 crores in infrastructure augmentation.
 
 “Out of nine defence public sector units, four are already listed and another two have filed their red herring. It is just a matter of time when GSL’s turn comes,” Mital said.
 
 The Union government is trying to reduce its stake in several   to meet its disinvestment target.
 
 The GSL is expected to ink several agreements in the near future that could see its order book swell, a move that is in line with the shipyard’s projections to have Rs 5,000 crore revenue in the next five years.
 
 
