 came into the limelight through her role of Meenakshi in the popular serial Eswaran Sakshiyayi. 

 Directed by K K Rajeev, the soap had won the State Television Award for Best Serial in 2016. The young actress is on a high now, after getting good responses for her character Niranjana in the serial  , which concluded recently. She is also known as the ‘minji girl’ after her romantic music album   went viral in social media last year. Parvathy talks to us about her dreams, her television stint with husband Balagopal and her future projects in tinsel town.
 
 
 
 Rathrimazha, a family drama produced by  , is an adaptation of writer Mayadevi's novel from a renowned Malayalam weekly. My character, Niranjana, is the wife of the male protagonist Sudhi, played by actor Niranjan Nayar. Sudhi has a child from his former love Archana, played by Sreekala Sashidharan. Niranjana takes care of the child like a mother. The custodial rights of the child between Archana and Niranjana take the story forward. Though Niranjana is a strong and bold character who stands for her rights, she sacrifices her motherly love and hands over the child to Archana eventually. 
 
 During the telecast of the serial I used to receive mixed comments from the audience. As my role had a dash of negativity filled with selfishness and possessiveness, most of the feedback was a little abusive. But after the final episode, I was flooded with positive comments, congratulating my character for her sincerity. With her sacrifice, Niranjana ended up being the real hero (laughs) I guess. I was on cloud nine when the mothers of various small-screen actors and actresses told me ‘Nee njangale karayichu kalanju mole’. If my character could etch a space in viewers’ hearts, it was successful, I felt.
 
 
 
 Prior to Rathrimazha I had acted in two serials — Amma Manasam, my debut, and Eswaran Sakshiyayi — both by KK Rajeev sir. Both the serials were acting schools for me. Eswaran Sakshiyayi’s Meenakshi helped me explore my acting capabilities. The best part of being a part of Rajeev sir’s serials is that we get briefed about our roles very well. 
 
 Amma Manasam will always be close to my heart as my father Gopikrishnan donned the role of my on-screen father in it. My father was the only person in my family who encouraged me to try my luck in showbiz. Only a few would be lucky enough to act with their own fathers. Though he had participated in a few theatre productions, it was his debut television acting stint and I was happy for him. Everyone on the location used to look forward to our combination scenes. 
 Meanwhile, my husband Balagopal and I are an onscreen couple in the on-going reality show, Super Jodi. The show features television actresses with their real-life husbands. The programme is packed with fun segments like dance, skits and game rounds. Balu chettan (Balagopal) is a music director by profession. He was shy at the beginning of the show. But the show made him outgoing and he started exploring his artistic talents including dance. I was surprised to see his enthusiasm. He was practising dance steps till 2 am at times! 
 
 
 
 When it comes to acting I am very selective. What matters to me is that role must leave an imprint on my audience’ minds, not how big it is. The music album Minji, directed by Varun Dhara made me popular especially among the youth. I fell for the music the moment the team made me listen to it. The video had great viewership and people still recognise me as the Minji girl. Funnily enough, I received several marriage proposals after the video release. I was already married by then!
 
 Apart from acting, I have tried my hand at ads, modelling and television interviews of film personalities. It was the happiest moment for me when I got a chance to interview our own dear Mammukka (actor Mammootty). I wish to interview Lalettan (actor Mohanlal) also one day. 
 In between I was able to complete my BTech course with flying colours, and could make my parents’ dreams come true. 
 
 
 
 I am an emotional person who gets attached to people easily. Serial schedules are fun and more like a get-together for artistes like me. Whenever a serial nears its end, I get depressed and break into tears on the final day of shoot. The crew are more like family for me so I get sentimental when the shoot concludes.
 
 
 
 I love to write love stories and I am working on a few. I hope to direct a romance one day.
 At present I have the show Super Jodi and a few ads in my kitty. I am also anchoring two new shows, Pachamalayalam —a talk show featuring prominent environmentalists and a fun show — Tharam Avatharam which will be aired from April first week. I wish to concentrate more on modelling and family for a while. 
 
 
