  : With summer fast approaching and the city's gardens in a patethic state, the civic body has issued notices to the contractors to keep these public places ready by March 24 or face action. 

 The preliminary deadline is March 17, until when most maintenance work will have to be completed, following which the contractors have swung into action in the last two-three days. The remaining work should be completely over by the final deadline of March 24. 
 
 Out of the 481 gardens in the city, 285 are maintained by contractors while 196 by the  . There is a total staff of 228 in the gardens department for maintenance work.
 
 A total of 364 gardens are less than half acre (less than 2,000 sq mt) in size, which is 75.86% of the gardens; 75 gardens are 1.5 acres in size (15.59%), 25 gardens are of two acres (5.20%), nine gardens are 2-3 acres (1.87%), four are 3-4 acres (0.83%), two are five acres (0.42%) and two are more than five acres (0.42%) in size. 
 
 "The use of these gardens less than half-acre size is basically by locals of that area. These could be open spaces that have been developed as gardens or are small colony gardens. Hence, the main rush will be at the remaining 25% gardens that are big in size," said a civic official.
 
 The official said that on inspecting these gardens, the department found that lights were either less or defunct, sprinklers and fountains were not working and there was overgrowth of weeds and grass.
 
 "We are coordinating with the respective departments to get all the work done. We started getting lights repaired or installed from the electric department. If the lights are more, anti-social elements can be restricted and people, particularly women, children and families will feel safe," he said.. 
 
 "We have also asked the mechanical department to get the sprinklers and fountains repaired. Water can be saved through sprinklers and drip irrigation. We are using ground water sources such as borewells," said the official.
 
 Every division has a garden inspector working under the respective divisional officers, both of whom are responsible for the works related to gardens .
 
 "The employees have been asked to clear the shrubs, weeds and fallen leaves. The fall season will be over soon and hence we have asked the staff to focus on cleanliness of the gardens and its greenery," said the official. 
 
 
