CHANDIGARH: Compared to the visits of several other heads of foreign states to India, Canadian PM Justin Trudeau’s visit last month was already being labeled lackluster when a diplomatic disaster sunk it completely. While the man in the eye of storm,   is not too keen to share details of his previous life, on the dinner invitation fiasco in India, he pulls no punches. 

 Not only is Atwal very vocal in openly naming and criticizing organizations and individuals “still supporting the cause of Khalistan”, but he is also quick to blame Justin   for pandering to such people. The issue broke out when a photo of Atwal with Trudeau’s wife Sophie Grégoire Trudeau at a Mumbai event appeared in the media and it emerged that he had been invited to a dinner by Canadian high Commissioner organized in honour of the visiting Trudeaus on February 22.
 
 
  
 
 Trudeau’s disastrous India visit continues to rock the   with the Conservative Party cornering the Liberal government for suggesting that the Indian government had played a part in causing embarrassment to the visiting dignitary.
 
 “Trudeau will pay the price of cosying up to   in the next election,” says Atwal, adding, “So will NDP leader Jagmeet Singh.”
 
 Indians make up around 4% of Canada’s overall population. Canadian Sikhs number close to five million or 1.5% of Canada’s population. “Of these, not more than 5-7&% may have some sympathy for   idea. But they are the most vocal bunch and so seem to control the narrative for the whole community. That’s one reason I have been mulling entering politics myself,” Atwal explains.
 
 Detailing the aftermath of the row, he adds, “The PM, politicians of all parties, provincial and federal, all used to come to my house and ask for help in elections. Then they don’t think, ‘Who is Jaspal Atwal?’”
 
 He reiterated, “This was not the first time I was visiting India, I had come in February for my medical treatment in Jalandhar.”
 
 On why it created such a furor, he says, “The media in both the countries was playing up that Modi didn’t come to receive Trudeau. Did anyone ask why it happened? Our Sikh MPs, some 4-5 of them, not all, are related to WSO which has Khalistan as its aim. Among those travelling with PM were two former presidents of WSO. If our PM takes Khalistanis along in his plane, you think the Indian government will welcome him at the airport?”
 
 
 
