Chandigarh: The   of students in government schools, on Wednesday, improved by 10% to 30% in every school but is yet to go beyond 60% in most out of the total 115 schools. Teachers said it is due to the cold mornings and cold classrooms. On Monday, which was the first day of school after winter vacations, the attendance in was as low as 5% to 8% in some of the schools and did not exceed 40% in any school.

 “The attendance in our school has reached around 60%. We hope that it would improve further, though, the classrooms continue to remain very cold all throughout the day,” said Arvind Rana, a government school teacher-cum-president of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) Teachers Welfare Association. In his school, 161 students out of strength of 622 were present on Day 1.
 
 Keeping in view the low turnout of the students, the teachers are not teaching anything important and focusing on revision of what has been taught. The absentees mainly include the primary wing students and students who come from a little far off places. The teachers are expecting the attendance to improve next week after Lohri festival falling on the weekend.
 
 On the other hand, many private schools in Chandigarh have changed their school timings and parents of government schools, too, are waiting for the same. “The department officials should come out and see how cold it is in the morning. My daughter told me that classrooms remain very cold. The department should change the timing of the schools like those in Punjab. What is the harm?” said Anirudh Bakshi, a Sector 50 resident.
 
 “Schools should provide at least one heater in every classroom. No matter how many clothes the child is wearing, the classrooms are too cold all the time. The students cannot even go out in the sun except during the break,” said Sumitra Kaushal, a resident of Sector 23.
 
 The department officials, however, are still unperturbed. Even as it was said that the change in timings will be discussed on Tuesday, no communication came till Wednesday.
 
 Sources from the UT education department said it has moved a file to change timings of the government schools from 9am to 3pm. However, the director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar denied it. “Nothing of this sort has come to my knowledge,” he told TOI.
 
 Earlier, TOI had reported that majority of the schools had less than 30% attendance on Monday. It was 40% to 50% in three to four schools. Evening schools, too, witnessed low attendance. Many private schools, also, reopened on Monday.
 
 Only 31 out of 628 students attended Government Model High School, Sector 29 A, while the number was 45 out of 884 in Government High School, Indira Colony, in the evening shift.
 
 
