PUNE: Writing down his personal identification number (PIN) on his debit card cover proved costly for 56-year-old Hulgappa  .

 The retiree, who lives in  , had his wallet stolen by pickpockets at   bus stand on February 10. The wallet contained Rs16,000 in cash. The thieves then used his debit card top withdraw Rs 75,000 from an  .
 
 Curiously, Kurade did not receive SMS alerts from his bank about the cash withdrawal. He only discovered that the money was missing from his account when he visited the bank’s Karvenagar branch on February 22. He then lodged a complaint with the Swargate police.
 
  
  
 Assistant inspector  , who is probing the case, said Kurade had retired from service with a private company and lives in Karvenagar. On the night of February 10, Kurade had come to Swargate bus stand to catch a bus to  . “Kurade had plans of travelling to meet his relatives,” More said.
 
 Around 9pm, while Kurade was waiting at the bus stand, someone picked his pocket. “The wallet contained 16,000 in cash as well as a debit card issued by a cooperative bank,” More said.
 
 As he had to catch the bus, More said Kurade did not immediately lodge a complaint. He also did not approach the police after returning to Pune. “Kurade is a heart patient and had recently undergone a major surgery,” More explained.
 
 On the Thursday (February 22), when Kurade went to his bank in Karvenagar on some work, he found that Rs75,000 was debited from his account. “When Kurade checked the statement, he found that the amount was withdrawn from different ATM kiosks between February 12 and February 13,” More said.
 
 When Kurade realized that the money was withdrawn using his debit card, he immediately approached the police and lodged a complaint. “Kurade stated in his complaint that he had written the PIN on the cover of the card, in case he forgets it,” More said.
 
 More said Kurade should have immediately approached police after he realized his pocket was picked. “He should have blocked his debit card too,” More said.
 
 A senior officer from Swargate police station said the police will get the details of the cash withdrawals from Kurade’s bank and check the CCTV footage from the ATM kiosks from where the cash was withdrawn. “Our probe is on,” the officer said.
 
