CHANDIGARH: It's been almost two months after the launch, but the ambitious project of online building plan approval system has failed to yield any result. 

 Not even a single building plan has been approved through the system, which was launched on February 8 amid much fanfare with an aim to spare the city residents of the ordeal of running from pillar to post for getting their building plans approved.
 
 The system aimed at expediting the scrutiny process by eliminating lengthy and cumbersome manual process. But the reality is quite different. The officials of the   building branch are still insisting the applicants to manually submit a copy of the plan along with online application.
 
 According to sources, the officials are facing issues when it comes to scrutinising the plans through the software. The applicants are being asked to manually submit a copy of plan so that the officials can compare it with the plan uploaded online.
 
 City-based architect  , who is also the president of  , said that the department adhered to the old practice, where the residents had to submit their building plans along with prints of drawings, which were processed manually. Due to human intervention in the process, it took months to get the building plan sanctioned.
 
 "By asking the city residents to submit their plans manually after applying online, they have defeated the purpose of the online building plan approval system. Nothing has changed on the ground and we are back to square one," rued Mukherjee. He further said that there is lack of coordination between the building branch and architect office.
 
 The architects are also complaining that the department did not consult them and other stakeholders while designing the system.
 
 Talking to TOI, assistant estate officer (AEO)   held technical glitches as the one of the main reasons for the delay in approval of building plans online. "We are sorting out the issue and will start approving the building plans within a day or two," said Khattri. 
 
 
