MUMBAI: In an important development, the Bombay high court on Thursday asked the Maharashtra government about its opinion on setting up an “independent   commission” to inquire into the   fire. A division bench of Justice Ravindra Borde and Justice Rajesh Ketkar gave the   a day’s time to clarify its stand and scheduled the matter for orders on Friday.

 “On paper everything is perfect but in practice it is a different story,” said the bench. This was after a two-and-half-hour hearing in which the   and the state government placed on record steps taken to probe the incident and lay down remedial measures for future. “What is your view about an independent judicial probe?” Justice Borde asked the state’s legal team.
  
  
 A judicial inquiry is one of the main pleas in the public interest litigation filed by former police commissioner Julio Ribeiro, seeking an inquiry into the incident. The fire that broke out at Mojo’s Bistro and One Above at Kamala Mills compound in Parel in the early hours of December 29, 2017, had claimed 14 lives and left 12 others injured. 
 
 Senior advocate Anil Sakhare, counsel for the BMC, said a judicial inquiry may not be necessary at this stage. The BMC lawyer said that following the incident, the corporation had set up a committee under the chief engineer to inquire into the root of the issue and submit a report within three months. The committee will look into alleged irregularities in the Kamala Mills compound, including development control regulations and floor space index violations. 
 
 Advocate Sakhare said there were 13 restaurants operating in the mill compound and the committee would probe if they comply with the rules. 
 
 Sakhare said inspections were being carried out at restaurants in each of the city’s 24 wards to ensure that such an accident would not recur.
 
 The BMC has already initiated proceedings against 12 officials, the lawyer said. “We will inquire into the past and also come up with a policy for the future. If there are any suggestions or directives from the court, we will take that into consideration while framing the policy. The views of other stakeholders, including the general public, will also be considered,” said advocate Sakhare.
 
 Government pleader Poornima Kantharia submitted two affidavits before the court—one by the investigating agency detailing the progress of the criminal probe and the other by the excise department. Kantharia said the excise department carries out regular inspections at the time of granting permissions and renewals of liquor licence for restaurants. Permissions were granted to the restaurants on the basis of inspections as well as no objection certificates issued by the fire department and the BMC. The court remarked that while applying for permissions, restaurants may have shown a retricted area.
 
 
