PUNE: Marcia (35), who delivered a   girl normally about a week ago, was puzzled by the excessive attention doctors were showering on her daughter.

 Upon enquiry, she was told that her baby was at a higher   of developing   due to the   group   between her and the child. And that is just one of the reasons for jaundice among newborns.
 
 The neonatal or newborn-jaundice occurs because the newborn’s blood contains an excess of bilirubin, a yellow-coloured pigment of red blood cells. “Newborn jaundice is usually harmless. Some babies have severe jaundice, which can lead to deafness and even brain damage if not treated promptly,” paediatrician Sanjay Lalwani said.
 
 Most newborns develop jaundice to varying degrees, depending on how efficiently their bodies can get rid of bilirubin. It is usually noticeable by the first or second day of birth and intensifies by the fifth day and usually resolves by the time the infant is two weeks old.
 
 “About 60% full term babies and 70% of preterm babies develop physiological jaundice and 50% of them require treatment in the form of phototherapy,” Lalwani said.
 
 In some cases, however, jaundice can develop shortly after birth, getting noticeably worse within the first 24 hours. “This is usually a sign of an underlying disorder, such as a blood type mismatch between mother and baby, a lack of certain enzymes within the red blood cells, infections or genetic disorders,” he added.
 
 Sharing the view, neonatologist Sachin Shah said, “Preterm babies, the ones born to diabetic mothers and those in whom feeding is not established properly are at higher risk of developing jaundice.”
 
 Early detection of jaundice in newborn babies is visible enough to get detected and treated in time. 
 
 “There is yellowish discolouration of skin. It starts from face and then spreads downwards. The level of bilirubin is very high if the discolouration is seen even on ankles,” Shah said.
 
 Parents need to understand the need for monitoring. “Frequent blood tests are needed, which may prolong the stay of the baby at the hospital. Mother during this period should focus on proper feeding,” Shah added.
 
 “Doctors need to be more vigilant whenever there is a blood group mismatch. Early checking of bilirubin levels (starting with umbilical cord blood) and then every 4-6 hours if levels are worryingly high,” Shah said. 
 
 The treatment for new-born jaundice has become more effective over the years. “Today, we have more powerful phototherapy units that help to lower down jaundice levels faster. Also, there is more awareness about this condition now,” paediatrician Sharad Agarkhedkar said.
 
 The best prevention of newborn-jaundice is adequate feeding. Breast-fed infants should have 8-12 feedings a day for the first several days of life, experts said.
 
