MUMBAI: Over 24 hours after a major fire broke out in the city’s largest dumping ground at Deonar, firemen managed to “reduce it to a   and confine it to one area”. Firemen said eight fire engines were still at work and debris was being laid over the flames to ensure they do not reignite.

  
  
 
 Senior civic officials, including the additional municipal commissioner, visited the dump site on Tuesday. 
 
 On Monday, the fire erupted at 3.30pm in the dump pockets near Baba Nagar and Rafiq Nagar. Firemen said they managed to bring the situation under control by 5.30pm, but the fire again spread rapidly at night due to strong winds, causing panic among locals. 
 
 On Tuesday morning, firemen said the garbage was only smoldering and efforts were on to control it. However,   lingered in the area. “Eight fire engines are still at work. We have deployed sufficient man and machinery to control the black smoke which is has spread over the creek side of the dump. The fire, however, has been confined to a particular area only,” said a fire official. “Fire enegines will be stationed at the spot till the smoke is cleared out.” 
 
 Residents pointed out that the fire and smoke cover 24 hours later clearly indicates that nothing seems to have changed on the ground even after the 2015 and 2016 blazes. In most fire incidents at Deonar, local residents had complained of breathlessness, cough, throat and eye irritation due to the high pollution levels and even schools were forced to remain shut. 
 
 Activist Rajkumar Sharma from Chembur said, “I visited the site on Monday night and was informed that the fire had spread largely towards the creek side. Even today, there are no adequate lights affecting firefighting operations at night. Even CCTV cameras are not in the areas where they are required. Instead, the responsibility of managing the garbage has been thrust upon citizens. Someone needs to be made responsible for these dumping ground fires.” 
 
 Deputy municipal commissioner (solid waste management) Vijay Balamwar was unavailable for comment. 
 
 
