MARGAO: Chairperson of Goa Commission for SC/ST, Prakash Velip, on Thursday said that as only 60% of the   under the   sub plan were utilised by various government departments in 2017-18, the Commission will probe into the reasons for the non-utilisation of the major chunk of the funds meant for the benefit of the tribals. Around Rs 300 crore was allotted under the tribal sub plan in the last fiscal.

 “The Commission will soon hold a series of meetings with various government departments and seek reasons why they couldn’t utilise more funds. The department of tribal welfare, however, spent 97% of the funds allotted to it,” Velip said in reply to a query at a press conference addressed by him on Thursday to announce the commemoration of Prerana Din 2018 on May 25.
 
 The event, organized by United tribals associations alliance (UTAA) in association with directorate of tribal welfare, will be held at Ravindra Bhavan, Curchorem. The annual event is held in memory of two tribal youths, Dilip Velip and Mangesh Gaonkar, who died in the Balli agitation on that day in 2011.
 
 The inaugural function of the event will be held at 9am in the presence of   MP Dr Achyuta Samanta, social welfare minister Pandurang Madkaikar, tribal welfare minister Govind Gaude, and other dignitaries. 
 
 Addressing mediapersons, Velip said that the focus of the event will be on providing guidance to the tribal youth with regard to career and business opportunities. 
 
 Of the 12 demands for which the tribals had held a mass agitation on May 25, 2011 at Balli, Velip said that while most of the demands had been fulfilled, only three, which are in the domain of the Centre, are yet to be met. 
 
 “Our demands for 12% political reservation for SC/ST, declaration of tribal-inhabited areas as scheduled areas, and formation of a tribal council, lie in the jurisdiction of the central government. We are pursuing these demands,” Velip said. 
 
 Chairperson of ST Finance and Development Corporation, Durgadas Gawde informed that a help desk will be opened in the South Goa office of the department of tribal welfare,  , on May 24, to facilitate speedy processing of applications for various welfare schemes from the district.
 
 
