The 18th Century was a fascinating period in the history of Punjab where Sikhs, Marathas, Persians, Afghans and the remnants of Mughal empire clashed to rule or to simply collect revenue and loot without administrative responsibility. The decaying Mughal empire and its governors tried desperately to prolong their rule but lost it all due to the onslaught of the Persians, Afghans, Marathas and the Sikhs. Nadir Shah had only one aim - loot and scoot. The Afghans under Ahmed Shah   had a mixed approach. They desired to rule only the areas adjoining their homeland and east of Indus focussed on revenue collection and loot.

 In summer of 1757 having looted and ravaged Delhi, Ahmed Shah Abdali returned to Afghanistan after appointing Afghan governors for Punjab at Lahore and Sirhind to control areas west and east of Sutlej respectively. In September 1757 Imad - ul - Mulk, a powerful noble and former Prime Minister, invited the Marathas to invade Delhi to consolidate his own position and to drive out the Rohilla Chief, Najib - ud - Daulah, who was acting as Abdali’s plenipotentiary. The   army under Raghunath Rao, the brother of Peshwa Balaji Bajirao, did more than that. The Marathas ousted the Rohillas from Delhi and seized their territory of Saharanpur. They further threatened the Sirhind Sarkar across the Yamuna under Abdali’s governor Abdus Samad Khan.
 
 The mercurial Adina Beg, a great survivor who ruled the Bist or Jullundur doab for 20 years by allying with and fighting against all players in Punjab, was under pressure from Jahan Khan, Abdali’s general, who was the regent to Taimur Shah (eleven year old son of
 
 Abdali) the notional governor of Lahore. Adina decided to decimate Afghan power to secure Lahore for himself and invited the Marathas to Punjab pointing to the rich harvest of spoils and promising them one lakh rupees for each day of fighting and Rs 50,000 for each day of march/halt.
 
 The Marathas remembering the vision of Peshwa Baji Rao1,1720-1740, to establish Hindu Pad Padshahi (Hindu empire) and the lure of Punjab’s riches, made the first attack on Sirhind in end December 1757. The Afghan governor, Abdus Samad Khan, patched up an ongoing conflict with Ala Singh of Patiala and entrenched himself at Sirhind. However, he managed to avoid battle by paying a tribute of five lakh rupees and Marathas returned to east bank of the Yamuna. Not adequately satisfied the Marathas returned in January 1758 with a large army under Raghunath Rao.
 
 An unusual alliance of the Marathas, Mughals under Adina Beg and the Dal Khalsa (Sikh confederation) under Jassa Singh Ahluwalia attacked and captured Sirhind on March 21, 1758. The city was thoroughly plundered which also led to bad blood between Sikhs and Marathas as the Sikhs garnered the lion’s share. The allies then marched to Lahore. The city was abandoned by the Afghans to the “Indian alliance”. The Afghan escapees were were waylaid at   on the Chenab. While Taimur and Jahan Khan escaped across the river, the entire treasury which was still east of the river was captured by the victors. Large scale slaughter of Afghan troops took place. The prisoners were marched by the Sikhs to Amritsar to clean the Golden Temple sarovar where dead cows and excreta had been dumped earlier by Jehan Khan.
 
 Surprisingly despite having an army of 2,00,000 and supported by Adina Beg and the Sikhs, the Marathas did not pursue the Afghans across the Indus to deal the coupe de grace. They were content to enforce “chauth” (one forth of revenue) and “sardeshmukhi” (one tenth of revenue for king/ governor). The frontiers of Punjab were left to be guarded by 15000 - 20000 troops in widely separated forts at Multan, Peshawar and Attock. There was no unified command. Bulk of the army under Raghunath Rao and his deputy Malhar Rao Holkar made its way back to Delhi and central India.
 
 The Marathas gave the Adina the title of Nawab and made him the overlord of Lahore and Sirhind, virtually pacing entire Punjab under him for an annual payment of rupees seventy five lakhs. They abandoned the Sikhs to the now powerful Adina who began pursuing them with vengeance for past wrongs. The Sikhs in turn began guerrilla raids on the Marathas and never trusted them again. 50 years later even Ranjit Singh despite repeated requests refused to ally with them against the British.
 
 The reasons for the Marathas abandoning the subjugated Punjab and giving up the dreams of Hindu Pad Padshahi were many. The region was too far away from their court in Pune and the Maratha bases in Central India. There were many powerful leaders in the Maratha army. In central India these leaders had established their own fiefdoms. Maratha empire was actually functioning as a confederacy. These leaders felt that being in Punjab would make them lose control over their central India fiefdoms. Also, not seizing the Delhi throne which was the symbol of power in India, was a major folly. Alas, there was no Scindia or Holkar for Punjab. The decision to invest in Adina Beg rather than the sons of the soil Sikhs and not consolidating Punjab with their own or a Sikh governor led to their debacle in Punjab an year and a half later and eventually to their rout at Panipat in 1761.
 
 In the spring of 1759 the impotent emperor Alamgir 2 again invited Abdali to invade and save his throne. The Rohilla Chief Najib ud Daulah also pitched in. Abdali began his fifth invasion and quickly routed the Maratha detachments at Peshawar, Attock and Multan, and Lahore was captured in October 1759. Thus ended the Maratha “foray” into the Punjab heartland and set the stage for the coupe de grace by Abdali on 14 January 1761 at Panipat.
 
 
 
 
