NEW DELHI:   and commercial complexes across the capital are expected to remain shut on Tuesday as a mark of protest by traders’ associations and market welfare groups against the ongoing   drive ordered by the Supreme Court-empowered  .

 The decision was taken in a meeting at Constitution Club of India attended by over 400 representatives from leading trade associations.
 
 Sanjay Bhargava, the president of  , said that traders are anguished about due process not being followed in the sealing drive resulting in an atmosphere of uncertainty.
 
 “Nobody is safe, be it old markets, local shopping centres, commercial complexes or pedestrian markets. Even Chandni Chowk traders are being harassed with notices and demands of proof of ownership. We are a market from the times of Shahjahanabad and there is no rationale behind this drive,” Bhargava said.
 
 Rajender Sharda from GK-I M-Block market welfare association, said that a three-fold strategy will be used to express their resentment. “Political pressure on the ruling party, judicial intervention and a state-wide bandh has become our last resort,” he added.
 
 Traders claimed that the monitoring committee is openly violating the municipal corporation Act as well as the Delhi High court orders given in 2013 and 2014. “The Delhi high court had clearly stated that a notice should be served to traders 48 hours prior to any sealing activity so that they have time to give a reply. However, a jungle raj (lawless state) has prevailed since the sealing began,” said one the participants.
 
 While many popular markets have confirmed their participation in the bandh, others are being convinced by   (CAIT). Brijesh Goyal, convener of chamber of trade and industry, said that markets in Sadar Bazar, Chawri Bazaar, Kashmere Gate, Khari Baoli, Karol Bagh, Gandhi Nagar and Connaught Place have already confirmed their participation.
 
 CAIT said that traders will organise protest marches in their respective markets during the one-day bandh.
 
 The sealing drive started on December 22 in Defence Colony market. Since then, many major markets, including Sundar Nagar, Civil Lines, Karol Bagh and Khan Market have witnessed sealing activity. A monitoring committee member told TOI that the sealing drive will expand to other areas in the coming days.
 
 Aam Aadmi Party has declared that it will support and actively participate in the bandh. It will also show its solidarity by organising a march towards Parliament on January 29. 
 
 
