Nagpur: The Bahujan Samaj Party ( ) is all set to launch preparations for 2019 elections on January 15, which happens to be party supreme Mayawati’s birthday. To mark the day, public celebrations have been organized in Mumbai as well as Nagpur.

 Party MP and in-charge of Maharashtra Vir Singh was in the city on Monday to hold a meeting of Nagpur zone that comprises Vidarbha and Khandesh. It was also the first meeting after Suresh Sakhre took over as state unit president last week. “The meeting revolved around Behenji’s birthday celebrations which would be used to kick-off preparations for the 2019 elections,” said Vir Singh.
 
 Meanwhile, it is reliably learnt that a 50-member state unit delegation will be reaching Lucknow on January 10 for a special meeting with  . The meeting holds significance in view of the party’s focus on Maharashtra and resolve to open its account in Lok Sabha elections from the state.
 
 “We are very confident of winning seats this time in Vidarbha and Marathwada,” Vir Singh told ToI adding that the strategy is being planned accordingly. The disintegration of the Republican Party of India into several small factions over a decade ago has been a gain for the BSP which got the Ambedkarite votes on a platter. 
 
 BSP candidates have got around 50,000 votes in Assembly polls or over a lakh vote in Lok Sabha seat in Vidarbha in the last one decade, but instead of winning a seat, this has contributed to defeat of candidates from secular party like the Congress or NCP, thus helping the BJP. 
 
 One of the reasons for this poor performance is the BSP’s policy of fielding candidates imported from other parties or strangers who enter the party just for getting the ticket. Claims of loyal workers are ignored even for civic polls.
 
 Monday’s meeting brought some welcome change as it brought back to action some senior workers who had been sidelined by the earlier state president Vilas Garud. Bhima-Koregaon was highlighted by BSP and Mayawati at a rally here at Kasturchand Park on December 10. But it could not take credit as the events of January 1 were lapped up RPI faction led by Prakash Ambedkar. The BSP will now use Mayawati’s birthday to mobilize workers into action.
 
 
