MADURAI: C  , a 60-year-old retired teacher from Jaihindpuram, has been running from pillar to post to get the alleged anomaly in the increased property tax on her house rectified. She claims that the tax has been hiked from a modest Rs 1,616 a year to Rs 3,000 all on a sudden and issued a notice by the   to pay up.

 Saraswathi says she lives in a small concrete house measuring 400 square feet which was constructed several decades ago. She claims to have not made any structural change to the house in recent years. “But now I have been asked to pay over Rs 20, 000 as the corporation officials are levying the fine retrospectively from 2011. Although I have been paying the tax promptly, I have been asked to shell out such a huge amount now,” she said.
 
 The tax which was increased after the recent survey conducted by the corporation has come in for sharp criticism from a large number of people who have approached the civic authorities to get the issue sorted out. About 75 per cent of around 50 complaints received at the monthly grievance meeting held in Madurai Corporation’s zone four office on Tuesday pertained to property tax. They opposed the collection of the tax retrospectively from 2011, terming it unjustified. C  , also from Jaihindpuram, said he had to pay over Rs 25, 000 at a go.
 
 A resident of   said that his house was measured by the corporation officials a couple of months ago. But they have not been issued any notice so far. “Our property tax has doubled after our panchayat locality was annexed to the corporation in 2011, but there has been no developmental activity ever since,” he said. 
 
 An official of the Madurai city corporation said that it was difficult to distinguish between the genuine and fake claims made by the residents. It would take some time to check the claims and solve the problems, he said. Corporation commissioner Aneesh Sekhar said that genuine complaints would be addressed. Measurements would be taken again for those who raised complaints and the problem sorted out. 
 
 
