Noida: The husband and the parents-in-law of a Greater Noida-based techie who was murdered on January 10 were arrested and charged with dowry death on Thursday. Police said the techie’s husband Kuldeep Raghav (26), had locked himself in a room and tried to commit suicide when the cops found him late on Wednesday, hours after the murder was discovered. 

 His wife, Richa, was a software engineer with Wipro. Raghav is also an engineer but was unemployed for six years, police said. A police officer said he had an inferiority complex and the couple frequently fought in the past, and that Raghav had claimed the murder was the result of a “breach of trust” in their marital relationship.
 
 Raghav had completed B-Tech from JSS Academy of Technical Education in 2011 in Noida. He had prepared for civil services examination but was unable to crack it. 
 
 On the other hand, his wife Richa Sisodiya completed engineering from Galgotias University and landed a job with Wipro. 
 
  Shailendra Sisodiya, Richa’s father, said she married Raghav in February 2016. The family spent around Rs 45 lakh on the wedding and gave the groom everything they could afford. Sisodiya alleged Raghav’s family had been demanding an SUV and Rs 10 lakh in dowry.
 
 He said Richa had told them that she was beaten up over the issue. “We had held a meeting with his family members and requested them to stop troubling her for dowry. We gave Rs 2 lakh to them six months ago but their greed continued unabated,” he said.
 
 On Wednesday evening, Sisodiya received a call from Kuldeep’s family informing him about her death. The family members reached her house and found her lying in a pool of blood in the bathroom. She had deep injury marks on her head. The family members rushed her to Kailash Hospital where she was declared brought dead.
 
 Brijesh Kumar Verma, SHO, Kasna police station, said Raghav had locked himself in a room and tried to commit suicide after killing his wife. “The accused also tried to set himself on fire by turning on the cooking gas but was stopped by the police on time. He was immediately apprehended and brought to the police station for questioning,” he said.
 
 The accused briefly spoke to the media and said ‘trust deficit in the marital relations’ led to the murder. “I have committed a big mistake. But trust is the most important thing in a relationship. A person goes to any extent when the trust is broken,” he said, adding that he suspected his wife was having an affair.
 
 A large number of relatives, friends and local residents gathered at Richa’s house after they got news of her death. Fatima, the vicim’s school friend, said on Wednesday noon Richa had informed that her husband was not allowing her to go to work.
 
 A case of dowry death, subjecting a woman to cruelty, under sections 304-B, 498-A, and Dowry Prohibition Act 1961 has been registered against Kuldeep, his parents Raghuraj and Sushma, and sister Annu who is at large. Police have seized the murder weapons.
 
 
