JAIPUR: Where there is a will there is a way. This was the life motto of 29-year-old former police constable   who cracked the Civil Services Examination-2017 (CSE) after braving several odds.

 A native of Virat Nagar in Jaipur rural, Rawat was mocked by villagers when he quit his police constable post in 2013 and as lower divisional clerk (LDC) in 2014.
 
 “There was a lingering fear about what if I fail, it would have been impossible for me to return to my village ever again. People would have laughed at me, they were already mocking me for leaving two government jobs,” he said.
 
 Rawat comes from a humble background; his father is a teacher at a primary school. “My mother insisted that I should dream big and prepare for IAS. It was her firm conviction, that guided me through tough times,” said Rawat, who secured 824th rank in CSE and wishes to join Indian police service (IPS).
 
 Rawat’s road to civil services was dotted with many problems. “When I resigned from police and clerical services, villagers said I had gone mad. But I knew I had all the skills required to crack IAS,” he said, adding that he was a Hindi-medium student who studied political science.
 
 “There is a misconception that only students from engineering and science background, or from elite institutions, can make the cut.   gives a level playing field to candidates from all backgrounds,” said Rawat, who graduated from Rajasthan University.
 
 Rawat believes that students from humanities background should not be intimidated by civil services aptitude test (CSAT) which also asks questions based on basic numeracy, quantitative aptitude and reasoning. “I have only one humble advice for students of humanities, try to understand the question. UPSC judges your presence of mind and nothing else,” he said.
 
 In 2015, Rawat was also selected for the post of assistant commandant (AC) at CISF. “I asked my mother what should I do, she told me not to worry about anything and go ahead for IAS. I sat alone for a few hours and made up my mind to move to New Delhi and prepare for civil services,” he said, adding that he studied for 8 to 14 hours every day.
 
 
