CHENNAI: Delay in release of water from Mettur reservoir and a delayed monsoon have affected the samba harvest process in the state. Under normal circumstances, half the area would have been harvested by now, but only 1.75% of the harvest has been completed so far in the current season. 

 In a last-ditch effort to save the standing crop raised on 10.7lakh acres in the   delta, the rice bowl of the state, the government on Thursday released 10,000cusecs (cubic feet per second) from the Mettur reservoir, despite dwindling storage. While the sluice gates of the   should have be opened in June last year, due to poor inflow water was released only on October 2, 2017.
 
 The supply may not last long, given Karnataka’s decision not to release water from its reservoirs  , Kabini,  . Their combined storage is at 42% of their capacity at present. “The standing crop badly requires one or two wettings. The release from Mettur may continue for the next few days in the range of 10,000cusecs to 7,500cusecs, but cannot be guaranteed further. The available water will have to be used for drinking water supply too until the next monsoon,” said a government official. 
 
 Currently, Mettur has a storage of only 19.9tmcft (thousand million cubic feet) as against a total capacity of 93.47tmcft. About five tmcft is dead storage, which means only about 15 tmcft is usable.
 
 After a year of drought, the state is pinning its hopes on available water to save at least two-thirds of the crop by the first week of February. Delta farmers are, however, losing hopes of a good yield. “Standing crop on at least five lakh acres is at risk for want of water. Unless we get our due from  , the crop will wither,” said TMC farmers’ wing president Puliyur Nagarajan.
 
 The long-term   raised on 18,747 acres alone was harvested until Monday last and a sizeable area is getting ready for harvest in the next few days. In about 40,000 acres in Nagapattinam district, where the crop was raised very late, water is required for the next one month. The first crop got damaged extensively due to heavy spell of rains. What is available now is replanted  .
 
 The state has fixed a target of realising food production of 100 lakh MT this year, twice the quantity produced last year. Cauvery Delta Farmers’ Welfare Association general secretary S Ranganathan said the PWD exhausted 20ft of water in ten days recently. They could have been prudent in saving water and supplying to specific areas where water was needed. If so, water supply could have been maintained till the first week of February, he said. 
 
 “At least 20% of the crop requires water immediately. We are at the mercy of Karnataka and appeal to the state to do the needful,” he said.
 
 
