VISAKHAPATNAM: On Wednesday, teams of   and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) initially brought a JCB from the nearby Polavaram project site but could not pull up the wreckage from the Godavari river. Finally, a big crane was pressed into service and the boat brought up.

 The rescue teams has to cut down part of the boat to bring out the dead bodies. By the evening, 19 bodies were retrieved. A temporary mortuary was set up on the riverside and post mortem conducted by a team of doctors after which the bodies were handed over to the relatives.
 
 AP chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu reached Vadapalli where the rescue operation was going on and announced an ex-gratia of Rs 10 lakh to the family of each of the deceased. “A new act will be enacted to ensure the safety of passengers and a special circuit from Dowlaiswaram to Polavaram will be developed for safety of passengers travelling in boats,” he said.
 
 Naidu said as per the information provided to him, the boat carrying 44 passengers capsized within 30 minutes of taking off due to gale winds. According to him, 37 persons belonging to seven villages in   and seven persons belonging to four villages in West Godavari were travelling in the boat. The CM said the death toll rose as the passengers who were inside the boat could not come out and assured action against those responsible.
 
 Naval diving teams of the Eastern Naval Command (ENC) were airlifted from Vizag to Rajamundry by naval Dornier aircraft at about 11 pm on Tuesday for the rescue operations. Three naval helicopters with additional diving teams and a Dornier aircraft with technical and air traffic control crew also got airborne on early morning of Wednesday to aid in the rescue operations and air traffic control services at Rajamundry airport. Apart from the navy, two NDRF teams from Vizag and   and six scuba divers were pressed into action. Members of the state disaster management also took part in the rescue operations.
 
 Despite the tragedy, these people have no way to avoid travelling on the boats as there is no other means of transport available for them. “We the tribals of 14 villages in Kondamodalu panchayat, have to travel only in a boat for our every needs including buying groceries and to reach any government office including a police station,” said   of Kondamodalu of   village who lost her mother.
 
 
