LUDHIANA: The Special Task Force (STF) of   police has held a Jammu-based drug smuggler with 5kg heroin from near   area on Wednesday late night following a tip-off. The accused has procured the contraband from Pakistan-based smugglers and was going to deliver it to customers when he was nabbed. The accused was earlier booked in December by the   for supplying drugs and was in wanted list of the police. Significantly, the seized contraband costs Rs 25cr in the international market.

 The accused has been identified as   of   village in Akhnoor. The cops had established a checkpoint near   near Panjeta village. During checking, they waved a   car to stop. However, the accused tried to flee by taking a U-turn. The police gave him a chase and nabbed him. During frisking, a packet containing 5kg heroin hidden inside a sack of rice. 
 
 The AIG of STF, Sahendeep Sharma, said that on questioning the accused confessed to procuring the contraband from smugglers based in Pakistan. Ashok was reportedly in touch with them through whatsapp call. 
 
 The official added, “Though the accused has not gone across the border, Pakistani smugglers used to come here and provide him with contraband in Rajouri district. Ashok used to deliver the same to different parts of the country. Mostly, he used to ask his customers to come near Ludhiana and Pathankot in Punjab or Damtan in Haryana. 
 
 Sharma added that the accused had been smuggling drugs from the past 16 years. He was earlier arrested by the Jammu police with 10kg heroin 2001 and after-three year imprisonment, he was bailed out but started smuggling again.
 
 On asking about link of the accused with Pakistani terrorist, the official said that the possibility could not be ruled out and the matter was under investigation. 
 
 Sharma added that the police would produce him before the court and request for his remand for further interrogation to bust the racket involving drug smuggling through Jammu & Kashmir.
 
 The STF official said the police would also investigate how the Pakistani smugglers manage to cross border and deliver the contraband to him. 
 
 
