MUMBAI:   on Wednesday announced that   has become an open defecation-free state after constructing over 60 lakh   in the last three and a half years.

 But   such statements are unconvincing. “By making such incorrect statements, are we trying to convince the rest of the world? Because here in the state everyone is aware of the reality that the city is not open defecation-free,” said Chembur-based activist Rajkumar Sharma from the Advanced Locality Management and Networking Action Committee. He added that if the statement were true, then “henceforth no more toilets should be constructed”.
 
 On July 6, 2017, the Quality Council of India declared Mumbai open defecation-free. Three months later, President Ramna-th Kovind declared the urban areas of Maharashtra open defecation-free. On both occasions, activists called the claims hollow. Bollywood celebrities like Twinkle Khanna and Shabana Azmi have also taken to social media to show how open defecation is prevalent on city beaches. 
 
 As per the baseline survey of 2012 conducted by the Centre, only 45% families across the country have access to toilets. While declaring the rural areas of Maharashtra open defecation-free on Wednesday, Fadnavis claimed the government has built highest number of toilets in the country and completed the task before deadline. “We met the target before the deadline of October 2, 2019,” the CM said. “Now, under the Swachh Maharashtra Abhiyan, we will encourage other campaigns, like  ,   and  , in rural areas to encourage citizens to use toilets.”
 
 Since the launch of Swachh Maharashtra Abhiyan in 2015, the Centre and state government have spent over Rs 4,500 crore to complete the open defecation-free mission. “We have made available toilets to the remaining 55% homes. This massive exercise of constructing toilets spanned 34 districts, 351 talukas, 21,000 gram panchayats and 40,500 villages,” Fadnavis said. “In the Good Morning Squad, children will be equipped with whistles and flowers to discourage people from defecating in the open.”
 
 But activists claim the CM’s statement does not seem to be supported by scientific data. “When driving out of the city limits, we still see people defecating in the open. On what basis does one declare Mumbai is  ,” asked activist-advocate Godfrey Pimenta. 
 
 Sharma pointed out: “Sanitation is still bad in the state. People do not use toilets in their locality because they are not in a good condition.” 
 
 Stressing that there is no chance that false data has been provided, the chief minister said: “Each and every toilet has been geo-mapped and photographed. We have the details of all toilets, even those built in remote areas.” Elaborating on the data, he said the state government has built 2.2 lakh toilets in 2013-14, 4.9 lakh in 2014-15, 8.82 lakh in 2015-16, over 19 lakh in 2016-17 and over 22 lakh in 2017-18, in addition to 2.8 lakh common toilets.
 
 
