Church Street, which underwent a complete revamp and was inaugurated recently, has got the thumbs up from people, especially the youth. The path, which begins at the Brigade Road intersection and goes up all the way to St Marks Road, sports a new look with LED lights and cobblestones arranged in a Kasuti pattern. It looks fancy, no doubt. But what has raised concern among   is the lack of adequate green cover along the stretch. The limited number of trees apart, the choice of species planted is also unscientific, they say.

 
 
 Architect and urban planner Naresh Narasimhan, who was part of the team behind the new-look Church Street, says that people need to be patient when it comes to the green cover. “One of the major problems of the road is that it does not have uniform width. Near Brigade Road, it is only 30 feet wide, but as you move along towards St Marks Road, it widens to 60 feet. One half of   always has shade because of the buildings and private compounds with trees, which provides  ,” says Naresh adding, “As the street widens, there are a lot of provision for trees. We have more than 20 locations, where good quality trees have been planted. There are trees like Saraca Asoca and Caesalpinia. The idea is to make a better street for people.”
 
 Naresh also adds that’s there has been a lot of work that has gone into beautifying the street. “Most of the roads in the city or anywhere have storm water drains running along the compounds of the building. Here, everything has been replaced and the storm water drains run under the footpath, which can be easily maintained without disturbing or digging the road,” Naresh says. He adds that a lot of opinions were taken into consideration including from the BBMP Horticulture Department, before the landscaping was finalized. “Green hedges have been planted along the stretch, which will need routine trimming. Let’s give it a little time,” says Naresh. When asked how citizens can contribute to maintain the quality of the street, Naresh adds, “Citizens have to be the watch dogs as maintenance is the key for this road. Meanwhile, a maintenance manual is being drafted, which should be followed to make sure the quality of the stretch remains the same. ”
 
 
 
 
 Ecologist and ornithologist MB Krishna says that although the street looks good, the open bareness is set to raise the temperature in the coming days. “Trees are required for shade, as well as for the wildlife like birds and butterflies. Church Street is a place that is frequented by young people. So, the road could have had trees that bear flowers announcing the arrival of each season. It could have been more colourful,” says MB Krishna.
 
 From the greenery point of view, as Krishna points out that there is a fault in the design of the stretch. “A road like this has two aspects — the functionality and the aesthetics, both of which must match each other. Why have   that are maintenance intensive? Why not plan ahead?” he asks, adding, “Instead, they could’ve planted trees like the Singapore Cherry, yellow and pink Tabebuias, Cordia and other species that hitherto belonged to Bengaluru.” What can be done, says Krishna, is to choose plants judiciously to be a true representation of the city’s ethos. “Trees that grow to heights that don't require trimming on a regular basis can be considered, ” he says.
 
 
