Chandigarh: At a time when Rs 11,400-crore PNB scam involving billionaire jeweller Nirav Modi has rocked the nation, a city-based businessman has duped a bank of Rs 75 lakh on the basis of forged documents and a plot that never existed.

 Mukesh Goyal, proprietor of Unique Pharmaceuticals, Keso Ram Complex, Sector 45, secured a loan of Rs 75 lakh from the Sector 38 branch of Dena Bank after hypothecating stock and a vacant plot at Khurana Colony, Dharampur, Kalka, as collateral. The bank said the accused provided the documents on January 29, 2014, and was given the loan. When Goyal failed to repay the loan by November 2014, the bank sent him several notices and reminders but the accused ignored them.
 
 According to the complaint filed by Neelam Agarwal, branch manager of Dena bank, Sector 38 C, bank officials on April 20, 2015, visited Kalka and found only streets and roads at the site where the accused claimed he owned 10 biswa property. The bank officials had requested Goyal, a resident of Dhakoli, Zirakpur, to go with them but he had refused. The accused then promised to change the collateral property with other properties of equal value within a month, but failed to do so. He also issued a cheque of Rs 2 lakh, which was dishonoured.
 
 The bank alleged the accused had also cheated State Bank of Patiala by taking loan on different PAN numbers. The bank alleged the accused had provided forged documents. The bank suspected the accused could flee the country and police should intimate the immigration authorities. The role of officials of revenue department should also be investigated as accused produced forged documents of property to the bank, the bank demanded.
 
 Economic Offences Wing deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Pawan Kumar said Goyal has been booked under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120 B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He said the accused had earlier been arrested by the Sector 34 police in connection with a cheating case. Police have zeroed in on the accused and he would be arrested soon, the DSP said.
 
 Booked, will be caught: Cops
 
 Businessman approaches Dena Bank branch in Sector 38 for loan of Rs 75 lakh
 
 He pledges a vacant plot at Khurana Colony, Dharampur, Kalka, as bank collateral
 
 Bank gives him the loan on January 29, 2014
 
 Bank issues him notices to repay the loan in November 2014, but to no avail
 
 Bank officials visit the site in Kalka and find streets and roads at the site pledged by accused as collateral
 
 Accused assures to mortgage another property of same value but fails to do so
 
 Accuses issues a cheque of Rs 2 lakh, which is dishonoured
 
 Police book him for cheating
 
 
