Pune: India’s dream run at the   in Guadalajara, Mexico, continued as  , 23, clinched gold in men’s   event on Sunday.

 
 
 Sheoran, who had qualified fourth with a score of 1174, shot 455.6 in the final. Compatriot  , who got off to a strong start in the final after qualifying with a national record score of 1176, fumbled in the standing series and finished fourth with a score of 430.9. Austria’s   won silver with 452, while Peni bagged bronze with 442.3.
 
 
 
 Sheoran, who had lagged till more than half of the 45-shot final, made a splendid comeback to stun a strong field of shooters. The finalists included Rio Games bronze medallist and current World No. 1 Alexis Raynaud (France), former World Champion   (Hungary) and multiple World Cup gold medallist and World No. 2 Istavn Peni of Hungary along with Olympian Sanjeev Rajput.
 
 
 
 
 The gold is Sheoran’s first medal in his second World Cup appearance since 2013. But more than the medal, it was Sheoran’s self-confidence that was at stake, since being on a shaky ground for past two years. The Uttar Pradesh shooter, who has been shooting since 2009 and had turned senior in 2016, had missed out on winning the Rio Olympics quota in 10m air rifle event by 0.4 point.
 
 “Score-wise I was doing well, but I wasn’t getting satisfaction in terms of my overall shooting. I started with air rifle but used to shoot 3Position too, but then despite being in the junior and then the senior teams, nothing was clicking for me,” the Johdi-village born shooter told TOI.
 
 “After the Rio miss, I was getting a little impatient and wanted things to fall in place. I then sat with my coach Deepali Deshpande and we decided to start from the basic all over again. I think it worked,” Sheoran said.
 
 In the beginning of his career, Sheoran used his school’s rifle for national trials and made his way to the Indian junior team.
 
 Though his farmer father had managed to buy an air rifle, buying a 3P rifle was an expensive affair. “I had used Deepali ma’am’s rifle for almost two years before I got my own. Actually, even getting my own rifle was not possible if Gagan bhaiya (Narang) had not bailed me out,” he said.
 
 After managing the fund, Sheoran wanted to buy the then justlaunched Walther rifle, but it had a waiting period of six months. “The model was newly launched by the company then, so it wasn’t available for six months. Gagan bhaiya being a big shooter had got that special edition rifle from the company as a gift. Since I was struggling to get a rifle, Gagan transferred his voucher to me,” he said.
 
 On Sunday, Sheoran was placed fourth till the 25th shot. In the final, shooters shoot 15 shots each of kneeling, prone and standing positions. After an average show in the 15 kneeling shots, Sheoran recovered in the last five shots of the prone series. Once he came to top just ahead of the standing series, he didn’t let the advantage slip. “Standing position is my strength, I knew I would do well in it,” he said.
 
 India remains on top of the medals tally with four golds and overall nine medals.
 
 
