KOLKATA: A 12-hour drama played out outside mayor Sovan Chatterjee’s new   address, where his estranged wife,  , sat on a dharna for most of Thursday night before being finally arrested by cops from the   police station. The complaint was lodged by none other than the mayor himself, who cited “unlawful assembly” outside his residence to “cause harm to his life”.

 
 The episode started to unfold a little after midnight on Thursday and finally, around 12.45pm on Friday, Ratna received bail from the police station. She has been charged with unlawful assembly, criminal intimidation and wrongful restraint. Before that, with the mayor refusing to step out of his residence even as Ratna, along with their Class-IX daughter, spent most of the night on the pavement opposite the mayor’s home, the showdown was enough to keep the political circles and the common man agog. The two sides’ supporters’ sloganeering near the mayor’s residence, and later at the police station, added to the drama.
 
 The entire episode started with their daughter being chosen for a school trip to Germany. The girl claimed for the tour, she needed a signature from her father for which she visited him twice but was turned away by the security personnel. Apparently left with no other option, Ratna decided to sit in front of Sovan’s house till he signed the girl’s form. Around 1.30am on Friday Rabindra Nagar cops first requested Ratna to withdraw the demonstration. The area ACP, too, made multiple requests but to no avail. But Ratna stayed put. By 7am, a crowd had gathered on the spot, some of whom began chanting: “Go Back Ratna.” More cops, in three police vans, were sent in. Around 8.30am, Ratna was taken to police station. Meanwhile, parleying went on to arrange for the signature. Senior Lalbazar officers, however, denied the claim. “We went by law,” an officer said.
 
 “He has to sign a form so that our daughter can visit Germany. I have been requesting him for the past 25 days. Finally on Thursday, he said he wanted to receive the document through Speedpost and not accept it through a lawyer. I arranged for that, but he backed out,” Ratna claimed.
 
 The mayor rubbished the claim: “Tell me, who can have such urgent work at 1am? What signature can she demand so late?” He claimed he would not hesitate to sign any document for their daughter but would not sign anything “false”. Sovan’s complaint letter stated: “Ratna had been directed by the court not to disturb my peaceful existence at my present address. By showing utter disregard and in gross violation of the order passed, Ratna along with her accomplices has unlawfully assembled in front of my house to cause harm to my life.”
 
 Ratna’s lawyer   confirmed the police remand bond was granted to Ratna. “We will confirm the bail on Monday in court,” said an officer.   said Ratna has forwarded a complaint, stating Sovan had assembled his supporters to threaten her. The complaint added despite a court order, Sovan failed to cooperate with his signature.
 
 
