CHANDIGARH:   government has finally agreed to remove the internal changes, made inside the Haryana   to bring the building in its original shape under the restoration and conservation plan of all the buildings of the Capitol Complex. The Haryana government has also asked the Chandigarh administration to prepare a detailed financial estimate of the entire project and after that, they will be able to negotiate on the issues of finance.

 The development has come following the meeting, held recently between the senior officers of the Chandigarh administration and Haryana government. The   administration shared the exact conservation plan with the state government and briefed about the changes that needs to be removed.
 
 “The officers of the Haryana government have assured us to remove the internal changes, made inside the Haryana assembly. Majority of the changes found seem to be of temporary nature and therefore, there won’t be much of a problem to remove such changes existing inside the building. These changes mainly comprise wooden partition, minor changes in flooring among others,” said an official.
 
 Since finance is most crucial point in this entire exercise, sources in the Chandigarh administration revealed that they have started to prepare detailed financial estimates in this regard, which will be shared with the Haryana government with the intention to take their contribution. “The government has shown positive response on the issue of financial contribution, but the final decision will be taken once the financial estimate is prepared,” sources said.
 
 According to information, the Bombay-based private conservator-architect has prepared the conservation and restoration plan of all the buildings of the Capitol Complex, a   heritage site, which comprise   and Haryana assemblies, Punjab and   and Punjab and Haryana high court. “The architect has deposited the drawings to the engineering department of the UT and the department has been scrutinising the submitted documents and also working on the financial implication of the entire project,” said an official.
 
 
