While growing up, TV actress   was unable to make friends as she kept moving from one city to another and kept changing schools, thanks to her army background. The actress made friends only after she completed her schooling and joined DU. On her recent visit to the city, as we took her to her alma mater, Hindu College, Aishwarya told us about how the college has given her friends for life, her memories of the Virgin Tree, her failed acting career in college and why Delhi is the only city towards which she has a sense of belonging.

 
 Aishwarya graduated from Hindu College in 2006, and as she went to North Campus with us, the first thing she said was, "This place is still the same. Even the bhel puri wale bhaiya near my college is the same."
 
  Aishwarya added, "I am feeling a little old honestly, because this visit has taken me back to my good old college days. Delhi has always been my home. It is the only city that I have a sense of belonging to. My grandparents used to live here. Nobody from my family lives here now but this place is still home. Log bolte hain ki Delhi ke log alag tareeke se baat karte hain, kuch zyada hi familiar ho jate hain. I think ye unka pyaar hota hai. They are just warm and welcoming."
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  Talking about Dilli ki sardi, she said, "I think Dilli ki sardi is not overrated at all. You get to see the best winter trends here. If you see girls in Greater Kailash (GK), Lajpat Nagar, Sarojini Nagar (SN) , they all are so well-dressed. Yes, the smog is the negative part about the city, but having said that, Delhi looks best during the winter season. Also, if you want to get a photo shoot done, winter afternoons in the city is the best time to get some good clicks."
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Aishwarya comes from an army background, is really proud of it and has no qualms in accepting that army kids do consider themselves superior to others. "People say that army kids suffer from a superiority complex, which is right, we do! Army kids interact with a lot of people and this makes them confident. I really love my army background, I really look up to it. Whatever I am today is because of my army background," she explained.
 
  
 Aishwarya was part of three societies in her college and since she was actively involved in all three, she did not study much. "I didn’t study much in college but I made friends for life. I was part of the English drama society, the fashion society and animal welfare society. The members of the English drama society thought that I could not act, so they put me behind the stage and I used to do everybody’s makeup," she laughed and added, "Look who is acting now."
 
  
  Aishwarya relishes bhel puri outside Hindu College (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  Talking about the famous Damdami Mai ki puja on Valentine's Day at the Virgin Tree of the college, she told us that she got many proposals on that location. "Humare time pe Damdami Mai ki puja hoti thi, prasad mein kya milta tha, main bata bhi nahi sakti. That puja scandalized me in my first year, but in the second and third year it was fun. I got a lot of proposals there. Jab khabar aayi thi ki Virgin Tree ko kaat diya gaya hai toh mera dil toot gaya tha, but I am happy that it is still there," she commented. 
 
  
  
 
 
