PATNA: Echoes of grand celebrations of 106th   can be heard in the national capital as well as a three-day   is underway at INA, Dilli Haat. 

 The exhibition-cum-sale is showcasing salient features of state’s tourism, tradition, art and culture and cuisines with an aim to highlight the development of the state. Altogether 118 stalls have been put up by the artisans from the state, displaying handlooms and handicrafts.
 
 The main attractions are stalls showcasing and selling Bhagalpuri silk, Madhubani paintings, bamboo handicrafts, terracotta home décor items, jute craft, Tikuli art, sikki products, handloom bed sheets of Nalnada’s Bans Bigha village, wooden crafts and leather products. Officials said people from across Delhi-NCR region are visiting the stalls.
 
 The artisans are also overwhelmed with positive response received from residents of Delhi. “We sell our products mostly at village fairs and weekly markets. This is the first time we have come to an exhibition of such a magnitude and the response has been quite good,” Devendra Kumar Jha, who has put up a Madhubani paintings stall, told this newspaper over phone from the national capital.
 
 Smita Parashar, who has exhibited a large collection of saris, kurtis, dupattas, canvas paintings and decorative items, was also upbeat with the response. “Visitors have adored my work. They don’t hesitate in paying more. People like my fusion work of Ellora and Ajanta cave on dress materials. I have also presented a medley of Mithila and Majusa painting,” she said.
 
 The food court, on the other hand, features a list of mouthwatering Bihari cuisines, including delicacies like litti-chokha, Pusa honey, makhana kheer, Belgrami, soan papdi, imirti, raj bhog, thekua and gajak.
 
 The Utsav was inaugurated on Thursday by state industries minister   in the presence of principal secretary  .
 
 “This year, the exhibition-cum-sale here has been organised on a larger scale. Bihar is always on the road to development. Institutional strengthening has been done to facilitate industrial investment in the state. An online clearance portal has also been arranged. Also, special attention is being given for promoting the state’s micro and small scale industries,” Singh said.
 
 He added many projects have of late been taken up for the overall development of handloom, silk and khadi village weavers, which has created employment to local artisans.
 
 “The entrepreneurs are doing well from the first day. It is a good opportunity for artisans to interact with the buyers and enter into long term business and commercial relations with them,” said Rabindra Jha, a member of the organising committee. 
 
 
