RAJKOT: Fifty-year-old former teacher of a reputable private school  , who allegedly abducted and raped two 16-year-old girl students for nearly two years, was sentenced to life imprisonment by a local court in Rajkot on Friday.

 Additional session judge M M Babi found Trivedi guilty under Section 4 and 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POSCO) and awarded him life sentence along with fine of Rs 30,000, public prosecutor (PP)   said.
 
 The PP said he was not aware of the observation made by the judge regarding Trivedi’s act as he would be getting the copy of the order only on Saturday.
 
 Trial proceedings had begun against Trivedi in September 2015. He was arrested from Punjab on July 14, 2014, two years after he abducted the class XI girls from their hostel in Padadhari. Trivedi was charged under the Indian Penal Code Sections 363 (kidnapping), 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage), 376 (rape) and POSCO sections. He was lodged in Rajkot Central Jail.
 
 The chargesheet filed by CID (crime) reveals that Trivedi was a serial offender. In just 10 years, Trivedi has had two failed love marriages and abducted as many as eight women, including these two girls, since 2008. Trivedi, a native of Vadodara, managed to evade arrest for several months in all cases where he had eloped with the women. What’s was more shocking was that he even managed to get jobs in various states and showed one of the women with him as his wife. The chargesheet against him stated that he travelled to Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh in two years before being arrested. He introduced one of the 16-year-old girls as his wife and another as her sister.
 
 Trivedi got married to a woman from Mumbai in 2003. However, she died within six months of marriage. He then had a love marriage with another woman, who was studying in   then. She works as a teacher in a private school in Rajkot, but has severed all relations with him. He then eloped with two schoolteachers of a private school in Rajkot in August 2008 though he was married. He married one of them as per Arya Samaj rituals in Anand. However, the woman’s father persuaded her and got her divorced. Again in 2010, he fled with two women from Surat for seven months. Two years later, he forcibly took away the two minor girls from hostel of Dr Deepchand Gardi International School in Padadhari and raped them repeatedly over two years before being arrested. 
 
 
