HYDERABAD: Historians and archaeology enthusiasts discovered sonorous rocks in the borders of Jangaon and Siddipet districts in Telangana. Sonorous rocks or lithophonic rocks are mysterious rocks that sing musically when struck.

 
 
  
 
 Interestingly, the sonorous rocks are stretched over 25 kilometres length continually and has archaeological significance starting from the stone age, Paleolithic, Neolithic to Satavahana and Kakatiya periods. Petroglyphs, hero statues, tools are found here. Experts are asking State government to declare the stretch of sonorous rocks and series of structures as heritage park and as well as to make ringing rocks as unique park like in Potts Grove in Pennsylvania in the United States.
 
 
  
 
 Historian   who discovered the sonorous rocks said, "These rocks are 10 to 30 feet in height and are located in the borders of the two districts. They are located 16 miles from Jangaon town. They are locally called Solamile Ene. The prehistoric man lived here. Physicists say that these rocks may have formed 200 million years ago due to lave ejecting on to the surface. The sound of the rocks depends on the density of ferric oxide in them. Usually, the ferrous percentage is 9 to 12 percent in them. In Telangana, there are few places having these rocks, but these are longest ones."
 
 
  
 
 
 They pass through Bonakollur, Bandnagaram, Katkur and   in Siddipet district and Veerannpet, Chunchanakota, Nagapuri, Jangamredy palle in Janaone district.
 
 
  
 
 “History of ages is told along these rocks. In Jangaon district at Bonakollur at   on the rear side garuda statutes and shank chakra are sculpted on the sonorous rocks. There are cairns(locally known as rakasi gullu) Researchers found a stone age axe here. At Banda Nagaram the rocks form as a bund to a lake. There are several groves which show that prehistoric man used to sharpen stone tools. Near the lake there are cairns,” said Ratnakar Reddy.
 
 
  
 
 At Katkur there are hero statues(Veragallu) belonging to Kakatiyaperiod. At the same place, petroglyphs are located. At Jamala researches found statutes of Nagadevata. 
 
 In Siddipet Verannapet researchers found groves which signify the sharpening of stone tools. “They belong to the Neolithic age. There are several stone paintings. Telangana’s biggest petroglyph is located here,” said Ratnakar.
 
 
  
 
 At Chunchanakota Satahavahan era tools are found. At   pally researches found Menhirs and stone circles. He added,”its high time government declares this area as national heritage and safeguard. Some places the rocks are lost due to human interference,”
 
 State Archaeological Department In-charge Assistant Director B Ganga Devi told TOI, ”We have come to know about these rocks and structures through historian Ratnakar Reddy. We are yet to visit the spot. We are currently focusing on Warangal.”
 
 
