NAGPUR: When   joined the Vidarbha fold in 2015, many hoped to see those trademark long innings from his broad blade. While the Mumbaikar has played quite a few meaningful knocks in two seasons for his new team, he had played just one long innings this season before Thursday’s marathon knock - against Goa, where he batted for more than six hours on a slow turner.

 
 
 
 Many thought Vidarbha’s Ranji Trophy triumph was a perfect swansong for him. On Thursday, Jaffer made it clear he has no intentions of calling it quits yet, showing ample proof of his class, fitness and - most importantly - hunger for runs. Jaffer ended the day batting on a marathon 285 (425b; 34x4, 1x6) against   on Day 2 of the Irani Trophy here at VCA’s Jamtha stadium.
 
 
 
 The 40-year-old produced a masterclass as both Vidarbha and Rest of India batsmen watched him bat out session after session. On a placid track on which the Rest of India bowlers managed just one wicket on Day 2, Jaffer shattered one record after another with ridiculous ease.
 
  
  
 He had a record 289-run third-wicket stand with birthday boy   (120; 280b, 10x4, 2x6), who helped himself to a 12th first-class century as Vidarbha finished the day at 598 for 3. It’s the highest partnership for any wicket for Vidarbha. The hosts already have three 100-plus stands and are getting close to a fourth. Jaffer and Apoorv Wankhade (batting on 44; 75b, 4x6, 1x6) have added an unbeaten 91 for the fourth wicket at stumps.
 
 Rest of India had pinned their hopes on the second new ball after Vidarbha batters dominated the opening day. The first ball of the second day produced an edge off Ganesh Satish’s bat. It, however, fell short of second slip.   was the unlucky bowler. Both Kaul and Navdeep Saini then bowled their hearts out but couldn’t get that breakthrough. Jaffer and Satish showed plenty patience and application.
 
  
  
 The first nine overs yielded only eight runs before Jaffer broke the shackles with a fine late cut off Shahbaz Nadeem. Four overs later, Satish charged down the wicket to launch Nadeem over long off. Jaffer and Satish also hit a boundary each as the Vidarbha innings gained much-needed momentum.
 
 With their eye in and having seen off a good opening spells from the new-ball bowlers, Jaffer and Satish knew they just needed to play proper cricketing shots. Ashwin put the breaks on the scoring for a while but the duo managed to collect runs from the other end. By the end of the first session, Rest of India were waiting for things to happen. In between, Ashwin tried every variation he has. For a while, he troubled Satish but the batsman got through the testing period with patience. Jaffer, however, had no trouble in reading the ace Indian off-spinner. He completed 18,000 first-class runs and later on his eighth first-class double hundred.
 
 
  Vidarbha 598/3 in 180 overs (W Jaffer batting 285, G Satish 120) v Rest of India
 
