MUMBAI: In what is likely to turn out as a blow to the numerous commercial establishments at  , Worli, an internal   inspection has found that almost 16,000 sq m of built-up area on the premises is illegal. The inspection report is in its final stages of preparation and is expected to be submitted to municipal commissioner   by the end of the month. 
 
 Following the   blaze in December, in which 14 people were killed when fire broke out in two illegal rooftop resto-bars, the BMC decided to conduct a probe to check if similar illegalities existed at Raghuvanshi Mills. 
 
 
  
 
 A civic official privy to the inquiry told TOI, “As per civic records, the original mill area was 24,357 sq m and the built-up area 26,486 sq m. After the inquiry committee was formed, we decided to find out the current status of the built-up area. On checking the BMC’s property tax assessment records, we were shocked to see that the current built-up area was 40,337 sq m. This is almost 16,000 sq m more than the original area mentioned in our records.”
 
  Questioned on how the illegal built-up area could be 52% more than what was originally permitted, the official said it was because of excessive illegal alterations done to the existing establishments. “For instance, in one case we found that an entire floor had been created in between two original floors, which was contrary to the original plans,” the official said. He said there is a lot of confusion on property ownership at Raghuvanshi Mills. “During the course of our inquiry, we found that the original land owner leased the property to another person a few decades ago, who subleased it to another person,” the official said. 
 
 During the course of the BMC inquiry, several establishments operating within the mill compound approached it with property tax receipts and the shop & establishment licenses they had obtained. A civic official said the BMC made it clear to them that obtaining a license and paying property tax did not mean a structure was authorized. “If a property exists, our department is bound to charge a tax from the owner. 
 
 The assessment department, which levies the charge, is not concerned with the illegality or illegality of the structure,” the official said. “We have already initiated action against the unauthorized structures in the mill compound, but once our inquiry report is submitted to the civic chief, we would be in a better position to take further action,” the official said. “We have intimated our legal department to be ready in case any of the establishments with illegal structures approach the courts against our action.”
 
  activist Anil Galgali said the BMC should ideally get its ward-level staff to inspect such sites regularly. He said had the BMC followed this methodology, it wouldn’t have found such a large proportion of illegal structures in mill compounds now. “Anyway, it is better late than never. The BMC should henceforth get ward staff like subengineers and junior engineers to take stringent action against establishments with illegalities.”
 
