RAJKOT: Ten days after   robbed her of   and chopped her husband’s ears near Dhoraji, suspicion is growing strong that the   could be the handiwork of some person very close to the family.

 The doubts stem from the fact that   jewellery of the 63-year-old woman Raambhi, which her husband Daha Karamta claimed were robbed by the gang, were found from the spot of the crime. Moreover, the 2.5 tola gold necklace that he told police was robbed after slitting his wife’s throat, was found from their daughter’s house in Dhoraji. Police found her 250gm silver bracelets and two gold earrings from the spot. However, two loops of the man, which were allegedly taken away after chopping his ears, have still not been found.
 
 “The gold necklace was made for their daughter’s wedding. It was found at her house. The couple had gone to deliver invitations for her marriage to their friends and relatives in Kutiyana on January 28 when the incident took place,” said K R Rawat, police inspector, Dhoraji. Moreover, CCTV footages at Ranavav toll plaza on Upleta-Dhoraji road did not reveal any suspicious white coloured car as described by the man.
 
 “We are calling him for questioning every few days. But there is little that he is able to share, which can provide some vital clues,” said Rawat. 
 
 Daha was discharged from Rajkot Civil Hospital after three days of treatment. 
 
 On January 28, the couple was returning from Kutiyana on their bike. When they neared the canal on Bhadar river, five persons in a car waylaid them. Four of them got down and dragged the couple to an isolated place near the highway. They stabbed Daha several times in his thighs and chopped off his ears to rob his gold hoop earrings. The gang then slit the throat of Raambhi to take out a gold chain weighing nearly 2.5 tolas and took out both her earings and silver bracelet weighing 250gm.
 
 The robbers slit the woman Rambhi Karamta’s throat and chopped the ears of her husband Daha (65), police said. Raambhi died on the spot due to severe blood loss. After looting the couple, all five escaped from there. Daha somehow managed to reach the road and started shouting for help. Some locals called 108 emergency services ambulance and they were first shifted to Dhoraji and later to the Rajkot Civil Hospital. 
 
 
