PANAJI: More than 3,000 small and big industrial units, including hospitals, in the state will have to be shut down as the central pollution control board ( ) has directed the Goa state pollution control board ( ) to close down units operating without consent to operate.

 The establishments operating without consent in the state are hotels, restaurants, private and government hospitals, and marriage halls among others, a senior GSPCB officer said
 
 The CPCB directed the GSPCB to close down all the units which are come under green, red and orange categories. 
 
 Mining, hospitals, big industries, including chemical units come under red category. Cottage industries, like rice mills, masala grinding, printing press and other small industries come under the green category, while automobile servicing and repairs stations, manufacturing non-alcoholic beverages (soft drinks), fish processing, tyres and tubes vulcanisation, retreading and moulding comes under orange category.
 
 “State pollution control boards (SPCBs) shall direct all such units (orange, red and green category) not to continue their operations till the units obtain a valid consent to operate from the SPCB,” member secretary A   said in a letter to all state pollution control boards.
 
 “We will start issuing notices to defaulters under the Water and Air Acts from next month onwards and ensure compliance with stipulated standards,” the GSPCB senior officer said.
 
 The CPCB also pulled up the GSPCB for not uploading the data about the industrial units on the CPCB web portal and directed it to immediately do so. The CPCB also asked to put all names of defaulters on the websites.
 
 The GSPCB senior officer said the parliamentary advisory committee (PAC) on environment has sought the state and UT-wise data of units operating across the country with and without consent to operate. The officer said based on the data,   has directed GSPCB to take action against those units operating without the consent to operate.
 
 The GSPCB has already started issuing showcause notices to restaurants, including multinational chain outlets, across the state so that units need not have to be closed for operating without consent to operate.
 
 
