Trichy: Weightlifters and coaches have complained that a lack of weightlifting coaches in Trichy has resulted in the number of weightlifters dwindling in the district over the years. This was evident in the 62nd edition of the district weightlifting championship organised by Trichy District Weightlifting Association and SRM Health Club on Sunday, in which only 47 weightlifters participated. While more than 70 weightlifters took part in the previous year’s competition, at least 120 athletes competed in the year before. Moreover, according to the coaches, there are no professional women weightlifters in the district currently. S Chidambararajan, weightlifting coach and joint-secretary of Trichy District Weightlifting Association, said that the main reason for youngsters not opting for the sport professionally was the non-appointment of weightlifting coach by Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu (SDAT)for the district. “Since the district doesn’t have an SDAT-appointed coach, weightlifters do not get to join the sports hostel and this has caused a major setback in youngsters taking up the sport,” he said. It was way back in 2012 when Trichy had an SDAT-appointed weightlifting coach. In fact, in the last decade, only two weightlifters from Trichy – siblings V Abilash Christopher and Arun Adaikalaraj – have participated in international tournaments. According to Christopher, who won gold medal at South Asian Games 2016 in the 105 kg category, a lack of coaches in the district is proving to be a major hindrance for the sustenance of the sport. “There are a few skilled coaches in the city, but without proper financial support from them, they are not able to train talented coaches efficiently,” he said.  Christopher added that once SDAT appoints a weightlifting coach for Trichy, the scenario would improve. The coaches, from private gyms in the city, have so far been only resorting to schools and colleges to scout potential talents and train them to become professionals. “But this is not enough.  “We need to train at a grassroot level and only when we get the government’s support, it would be possible,” Chidambararajan said. On the other hand, district sports officer, C Punniyamoorthy, said that he was confident that SDAT would appoint a weightlifting coach for Trichy soon.