THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The doctors who conducted the postmortem of  , a Latvian woman who went missing since March 14, informed police that there were no internal injuries that could harm the bones or internal organs. All the internal organs were intact.

 Though the head and one of her legs were found detached from the body, it appeared to have happened naturally after death, apparently during the decomposition stage. The right limb has come off from the knee socket when the skin and muscles covering it decayed and no external force seem to have been applied there.
 
 The doctors told these facts to the police when the latter met them as part of the probe.
 
 “According to the doctors, there is no incise wounds or fractures on the bones,” said city police commissioner P  . The bones around the neck too were unharmed. If there was any attempt of strangulation, these bones could have sustained injuries too.
 
 Internal organs, including viscera, collected from the body were sent to chemical examiners laboratory here to examine whether she was poisoned. There were pong pong trees on the spot, where her body was found. Another suspicion regarding her death is that she knowingly or unknowingly consumed the pong pong fruits, leading to the death.
 
 “All agencies associated with the probe are working fast to get the results quickly,” the commissioner said, adding that the authorities of forensic science laboratory, who are carrying out the DNA test to confirm the identity of the deceased, and the chemical examiner’s laboratory have promised to provide the results in a few days’ time. The doctors, who conducted the autopsy too have promised to provide the official report before Wednesday,” Prakash said.
 
 On Sunday, state police chief   issued a statement that IG (Thiruvananthapuram range)   will supervise the investigation. The two officers met on Sunday and decided that all possible angles leading to the death would be probed. The suspicions of the family of the deceased would be taken into account too. The investigation team was directed by the police chief to consult the best of medico-legal and forensic experts to cover all aspects of the death.
 
 Meanwhile, tourism director   met Liga’s sister   and offered financial aid to take the body back home. He also informed her that the government had decided to grant an immediate relief of Rs 5 lakh to the family. The decision was taken by tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran. The money would be handed over to Ilze soon.
 
 The government would meet the travel expenses of the family members as well.
 
