NAGPUR:   has appointed Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) to conduct a study on noise pollution due to Nagpur Metro Rail. CRRI experts will identify the stretches where pollution mitigation measures need to be undertaken.

 Interacting with media persons after the third foundation day programme, Mahametro managing director Brijesh Dixit said, “We will install noise barriers on stretches that pass through residential areas. The barriers redirect noise into the viaduct. Rubber pads will be installed on tracks to reduce noise. Mass spring systems will also be installed.”
 
 CRRI will begin the study in about ten days and complete in two months. “We will identify the shops and residences that will face maximum noise pollution. Preventive measures will be taken before the actual operation starts. Noise will not increase beyond stipulated limit,” Dixit said.
 
 The MD said that pocket tracks will be laid at three stations — Rahate Colony, Agrasen Square and Subhash Nagar. “A third track will be laid so that if there is a snag in a train it can be stopped midway and repaired. Also, trains will be parked on the pocket track at night. They will leave early in the morning for their destinations. All trains need no go to the depots at night,” he added.
 
  (AAI) had taken objection to Metro viaducts on two places — near Jaiprakash Nagar station and between Rachna T-point and Bansi Nagar stations. “We have got the clearance by reducing the height of the viaduct by 80cm at these places,” he said.
 
 Commenting on relocation of   (also known as Khowa Bazar) near Ramjhula, Dixit said that Mahametro had constructed sheds for the vendors and they happily shifted into them. “We have provided them concrete platforms, a shed, electric and water connections,” he added. On khowa merchants, Dixit said, “The lease was in the name of pan vendors. Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ) has to be take a decision on khowa vendors.”
 
 Huge parking will be provided at Airport South, Pardi and Dattawadi stations so that people coming from outside can park their vehicles there and travel in the city using Metro. “Talks with Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) are going on for acquiring land,” Dixit said.
 
 
