Each year T Subbarami Reddy finds a good reason to host one grand party in the city. This year, what called for a celebration was his daughter Pinky Reddy’s appointment as the president of the   Ladies Organisation (FLO) and the guests were not just from Delhi, but also from Mumbai and Hyderabad. “I would really want to thank all the Hyderabadis who especially came to Delhi to attend this party. This was my father’s plan, and thanks to him, I got to meet so many friends,” Pinky told us. 
 
  
  (L-R) Robert Vadra, T Subbarami Reddy,   and  
 
 Her father pointed out that the party was a “neutral gathering” and “nothing is political here,” he said. He also added, “I have been hosting parties for the last 25 years, but I am happy to see that men are in minority at this party. We see women dominating different areas now, which is very good.”
 
  
  Vijay Goel and Ahmed Patel
 
 It is usual to see guests walking in with flowers or wine as gifts at parties, but what caught the attention of many people at this party was Dr Harsh Vardhan walking in with a small plant. “Now that is the kind of gift that you expect from the Minister of Science!” said one of the guests. Among the guests who walked in early and left soon was  .
 
  
  (L-R) Dr Harsh Vardhan, Ghulam Nabi Azad and Farooq Abdullah
 
 Pinky is known among her friends for her classic taste in the designs that she chooses to wear, and it was no wonder to see many of her designer friends at the party. From Anju Modi to JJ Valaya and Raghavendra Rathore, there were quite a few designers at the party. Rina Dhaka told us, “Pinky was one of my first customers and we’ve been friends since then. In fact, she is now like family to me.”
 
  
  Sanjay Reddy and Jaya Bachchan
 
 
  
  Sanjay and Ameeta Singh 
 
 
  
  Subhalakshmi and Amjad Ali Khan
 
 
  
  (L-R) Avantika Dalmia, Shashi Tharoor and Ambika Soni
 
 
  
  (L-R) Bobby Bedi, Sandeep Jajodia and Jyotiraditya Scindia
 
 
  
  (L-R) Kumari Selja, Abha Dalmia and Raian Karanjawala
 
 
  
  (L-R) PJ Kurien, Sushil Ansal and Ashwani Kumar 
 
 
  
  Jatin Das and Rajeev Sethi
 
 
  
  Rajinder and Pari Bagga
 
 
  
  JJ Valaya and Rina Dhaka
 
 
  
  (L-R) Gaurav Gupta, Kalyani Saha Chawla and Nikhil Mehra
 
 
  
  (L-R)Anju Modi, Varun Bahl and Raghavendra Rathore
  
  
 
