MOHALI: Two more incidents, including a case of snatching, have come to light in which   police have not registered FIRs. In the first case, police are yet to register a case 18 days after a snatching incident was reported in   village. Three miscreants allegedly snatched a gold chain from a 38-year-old woman near a temple around 7 pm on April 4.

 The victim has been identified as Rina Kumari, a resident of Kansal village in Mohali. In her complaint, the victim said she was walking home with her mother-in-law and a friend when a man and his two accomplices on a motorcycle, came from behind, snatched her gold chain and fled from the spot. “I was taking a walk with my mother-in-law and a friend when three bike-borne men snatched my gold chain and fled. One of them was sitting near Jawala Ji temple and the other two were waiting on a bike. Suddenly, one came from behind, snatched my gold chain and fled. The bike did not have a number,” Rina said.
 
 
 Parveen, the victim’s husband, said, “I went to the police station with my wife to lodge a complaint on April 4. Now, 18 days have passed but police is yet to register an FIR. Beside, they didn’t even contact us.”
 
 Only seven cases of snatching were reported so far in Mohali since January 1this year, which is the lowest in the Tricity. Chandigarh on the other hand, recorded the highest number of cases at 85. Senior police officers of Chandigarh and Panchkula attribute this to non-registration of cases by the Mohali police.
 
 In the second case, five to six persons beat up a man at the   highway and robbed him of Rs 4,000, but 11 days on, police haven’t register a case. The incident took place near   around 1.30am on April 7. The victim, Rohit Verma (29) of Panchkula, lodged a complaint with the   police.
 
 Verma said he went to get a burger late at night in his car and was on his way back when he was attacked. When he reached near Patiala Chowk, five to six persons in a car intercepted him and beat him up. “Five to six miscreants beat me with iron rods and stick. They snatched my wallet and took Rs4,000,” said Verma, adding that police told him probe is on but have not lodged an FIR or updated him on the case.
 
