By: Dilip Kanade

  in our city is a never-ending conflict between space available and the number of vehicles. And like many of the city’s affected motorists, I too have a few solutions. Now, some of the these solutions may sound radical or almost impossible to implement. But let’s all agree that unless we find spaces to park our  , Pune is looking at chaos on an unprecedented scale.
 
 First on my list is mandatory purchase of visitor’s parking space. All commercial establishments — big or small — should be made to buy a required number of parking spaces at public parking lots. This will add to the convenience of their own customers. When the same is mandatory for residential structures, should it not be so for congested business zones?
 
 Then, we have night parking charges. This plan is built on the premise that public facilities such as parking spaces should not be handed out for free. Also, the facility of night parking is not like water supply, garbage collection or fire services, which is being used by all citizens. In Pune, if a car occupies a space of a few feet, the owner is actually receiving land for free — when rates are at an alltime high. World over, free parking is being seen as a cosumption of valuable space. So why should we not charge for land use by a vehicle?
 
 Finally, we have community parking lots. For this, we’ll need to study successful models.
 
 In the city of Geneva, residents of a particular area enjoy preferential parking spaces that are created separately on the road. The residents contribute towards the facility and their cars are given identifying stickers. Any car without such stickers, if found parked in these reserved lots, are fined 100 Francs or Rs 6,000. Similar arrangements can be made in our neighbourhoods.
 
 But everything rests on improvement of public transport, a plan Pune’s officials seem to be taking seriously. An efficient system will reduce the number of private cars being used for short, daily commutes. However, it will not substantially influence our fascination for the motor car — a personal vehicle has been the preferred mode of transport for decades.
 
 Such sentiments or beliefs attached to the motorcar should be used by our city’s authorities to generate revenue. People don’t mind spending more on secured parking spaces — they have become a necessity.
 
 The writer is a general surgeon and retired medical teacher
 
