KOCHI: Cardinal  , the head of the  , has finally addressed the laity in person regarding the ongoing land deal controversy. 

 Leading the Palm Sunday ceremonies at the  's Basilica here, the cardinal said that everyone is impure in one way or the other. "I and you all are also among those who are impure. Impurity happens because of power and money. Individuals, families and the Church need to be purified," the cardinal said in his homily.
 
 The cardinal said that the issues related to the sale of land in the Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese will soon be resolved.
 
 "Whatever I and the auxiliary bishops have given out in a statement on the sale of land belonging to the church earlier, is true. Other news doing the rounds on the land row shouldn't be believed," the cardinal said.
 
 An official communique under the letterhead of the Major   of Ernakulam Angamaly undersigned by the cardinal and auxiliary bishops Sebastian Edayantharath and Jose Puthanveetil had stated that the problem would be solved through continuous discussions.
 
 While some of the faithful who came for the Palm Sunday observance at the St Mary's Basilica claimed that the number of those who attended the holy mass was less in the backdrop of the land deal row, some chose to differ and said that they were still with the cardinal.
 
 Referring once again to Jesus expelling merchants and moneychangers from the  , the cardinal said in his address at the basilica that "God's whip is against us".
 
 He had, in a YouTube video uploaded on Saturday, said each Palm Sunday initiates a purification process. Meanwhile, the Palm Sunday procession, for a change, saw police presence to avoid any untoward incidents.
 
 Later, a section of laity held a protest dharna at the Bishop's House alleging that a property rightfully belonging to the Church at Karakkunnam in Aluva was given to a missionary group.
 
 Meanwhile, the Central police have registered two separate cases over the clashes outside the Bishop's House while the   meeting to discuss the land deal row was underway on Saturday.
 
 "A case was registered for allegedly manhandling a man named Martin and another was in connection with preventive arrests," said Central SI Joseph Sajan.
 
 
