NEW DELHI: With no let-up in charges being traded between   for the second day, the discussion on the ongoing   in the capital was concluded by the speaker of  . He directed a special committee on municipal corporations to inquire into the sealing drive, process of levy and utilisation of conversion charges collected so far.

 “Based on the sense of the  , I’m referring the matter for examination by the special committee headed by Bhavna Gaur,” speaker Ram Niwas Goel said.
 
 Goel also directed the commissioners and other corporation officials to depose before the committee. “The committee should submit its report on the first day of the next session,” he added. The first meeting of the committee is likely to occur on Thursday.
 
 While AAP MLAs attacked the BJP-led corporations over sealing, BJP returned fire accusing the ruling party of choosing politics over a solution. Urban development minister   put the onus of bringing urgent measures to stop the sealing drive on the Centre.
 
 Putting out the government’s line on the issue, labour minister   said that if the Centre and corporations wanted a solution to the sealing drive, first the chaos surrounding conversion charges will have to be cleared. “If you want a solution, exempt all traders from payment of conversion charges,” he challenged BJP.
 
 Responding to leader of opposition Vijender Gupta’s attack alleging that despite repeated letters from the corporations (he held up letters from 2016 onwards) the state did not notify 351 roads awaiting notification as commercial and mixed land use, Rai said, “As far as this issue goes, if the corporation officials give us the complete information on January 22, we will notify the roads the next day,” Rai said.
 
 Rai also told Gupta that the sealing drive is being carried out on roads which are not in the list of those awaiting notification.
 
 Jain also hit back by saying the letters being shown by Gupta and the dates mentioned by him were in his knowledge. “I must inform the House that this correspondence started in 2016 only after we sought a response from the corporations on the issue,” he added.
 
 The UD minister said that the notification of roads cannot be done without following the law. The state government had raised certain queries, but the corporations failed to respond to them.
 
 Citing the meetings held with the corporations, Jain shot back, “I told them to sit in my office for a few hours and compile the papers, but they asked for two days, then more time and finally they said January 22. How can you blame us for the delay?”
 
 He also asked what had stopped the corporations from pursuing the matter from 2007 to 2015. “During President’s Rule in Delhi, you were in charge as BJP was at the Centre but didn’t raise the issue. The matter wasn’t even addressed before the civic polls last year,” Jain said.
 
 
