MANALI: Wrestler Dalip Singh Rana, popularly known as The Great  , has been made the brand ambassador of   for cleanliness campaigns, particularly in making rivers and lakes of the state plastic free.

 The state council for science technology and environment have started a campaign to clean up Rewalsar lake and Beas, Satluj rivers in Kullu, Mandi and Bilaspur with help of eco clubs of the school and various government departments.
 
 The forest department will supervise the campaign, which will conclude on World Environment Day on June 5. Going by ‘Beat Plastic Pollution’ theme of World Environment Day, the focus will be to get rid of plastic waste from the state.
 
 The campaign was started after a marathon in Manali where The Great Khali was the chief guest. Forest, transport and sports minister   here announced that Khali would be the brand ambassador of the state for cleanliness campaigns.
 
 “We have 3,100 eco clubs in the state. We shall make our rivers garbage free. The waters will retain its sanctity. We shall spread awareness among the public regarding importance of trees and a pollution-free environment,” he said.
 
 The Beas and Satluj rivers have been divided into sectors for collection of garbage. The drive to clean up other rivers and tributaries will continue even after June 5. The holy Rewalsar lake in Mandi, which is fighting for its existence, will also see a facelift.
 
 Talking to media, Khali said he was proud to be the brand ambassador for the social and environmental cause. “I’ve spent all my childhood in Himachal. I owe everything to this state and I will do all possible for betterment of the state. The government can use my name and fame for promotion of tourism and other causes,” he said.
 
 He said his motive is to promote sports in the country and motivate youth not to use drugs, alcohol and smoking and live a healthy life. “I will soon organize two international-level wrestling events in Mandi and Solan. This will motivate our youth to adopt sports as profession. We shall explore the hidden talents of wrestling and help them reach national and international platforms,” he added.
 
 Education department, irrigation and public health, PWD, Indo-Tibetan Border Police, home guards, national hydroelectric power corporation, Nehru yuva kendra, other departments, local bodies and NGOs, mahila mandals and yuvak mandal are also participating in the campaign to clean up garbage from rivers. Khali and the minister flagged off various groups to start the cleanliness drive.
 
 
