Jaipur: The cash-strapped Jaipur Development Authority ( ) will have to wait for long to earn revenue after selling Lakshmi Vilas Palace and its adjoining land as its auction is not happening any-time soon.

 The civic body will only sell the heritage property after its building bylaws are formed. Nearly 10 months ago, the JDA took possession of the property, following the Supreme Court’s directions.
 
 Later, a three-member committee was constituted to define the usage of prime land situated in Central Park. The committee recommended the UDH department to sell the property through auction to hoteliers. In its report, it mentioned that Kanak Bhawan should be converted into a guest house of the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA).
 
 A senior JDA official on the condition of anonymity, said, “As per our preliminary estimation the property worth is approximately Rs 250 crore. However, it can be put under hammer after its building bylaws are defined. A legal opinion has also been sought to examine the finer points,” he said.
 
 Surrounded by greenery, walking/jogging tracks, a golf course, a polo ground, Lakshmi Vilas was a popular tourist destination ever since it was converted to a heritage hotel in the early 1970s. Committee comprising of JDA’s additional commissioner, additional director (tourism) and joint secretary (GAD) suggested that state government can earn huge revenue after auctioning the hotel to private player.
 
 Following Supreme Court directions, the JDA on May 5, had taken possession of properties Lakshmi Vilas Hotel, Kanak Bhawan and a horse stable at Central Park that were spread over nearly 35,000 square metres.
 
 An officials said, “Lakshmi Vilas Hotel and the adjoining marriage garden are constructed in an area about 18,000 sq m; Kanak Bhawan is spread over 3,890 sq m. The stable land situated in the Central Park covers about 11,000 sq m of area.”
 
 It was informed that Lakshmi Vilas was originally an estate motor garage and constructed during the period of Sawai Man Singh II. It was converted into a hotel by erstwhile ruler Bhawani Singh. In 1986, Bhawani Singh sold both Lakshmi Vilas as well as Kanak Bhawan. The three families who owned the properties were using parts of it for residential and commercial purpose. However, the JDA challenged the sale of both the properties.
 
 
