NAVI MUMBAI: A speeding   Benz   crashed into a two-wheeler ahead of him on   at 4am on Saturday. 

 The deceased SUV driver has been identified as Rahul Patil (37) who ran construction and hotel businesses and was founder-president of R K Patil Charitable Trust. He was the nephew of Panvel APMC chairman Rajendra Patil as well as former councillor of Panvel municipal council Sandeep Patil. The deceased   has been identified as Kalamboli resident Reuben Pillai (25) who worked as a bartender in Vashi. 
 
 Pillai was returning home after work. Suresh Pandit (29), a childhood friend of Pillai, said he was to marry his girlfriend later this year and that he is survived by his parents and a younger brother. “He was the sole breadwinner as his father worked as a security guard.”
 
 Patil is survived by his wife and two children. He was reportedly returning home after dropping his friends in Vashi after a birthday party in his village, Wahal in Panvel taluka, when the accident took place. 
 
 Police sub-inspector Anil Shinkar of NRI coastal police station said, “The biker was riding in the third lane when the speeding SUV rammed into it near Sector 50, Seawoods. Motorists who were behind the SUV alleged that the vehicle was speeding at around 200kmph when it rammed into the bike; the biker was thrown in the air and   on impact. The SUV veered off the road, somersaulted a couple of times and rammed into the peripheral poles and the crash guard. Although the air bags opened, they were of no use as the SUV driver was thrown out of his vehicle; he was not wearing his seat belt and the vehicle also skidded for about 50 metres.”
 
 Shinkar addeed that occupants of other vehicles halted to help the victims. One carried the injured duo in his car to MGM Hospital in CBD-Belapur but they were declared as brought dead on arrival. An FIR was registered against the deceased SUV driver for causing death by rash and negligent driving under Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicles Act. Cops said Patil’s licensed revolver was found on the road. It has been deposited at the police station. 
 
 
