RANCHI: RJD president   will be brought back to Ranchi despite his plea that he is still unwell and needed further treatment at the   (AIIMS), Delhi. Lalu, who has been in judicial custody after his sentencing in fodder scam cases, was sent to AIIMS last month as he was suffering from a host of illnesses.

 Before his discharge, Lalu wrote to AIIMS management saying that he needed further treatment at the institute. Lalu said that he was suffering from various illnesses including heart problem, kidney infection, blood pressure and diabetes. Lalu said he also suffers from backache and get bouts of dizziness and he has fallen in the bathroom several times.
 
 “I was sent from   (Rims) to AIIMS for better treatment. There is no facility for treatment of kidney problem at the Birsa Munda jail hospital or at Rims. Every citizen has the right to get treated according to his satisfaction,” he said in a letter addressed to the AIIMS management.
 
 In the letter, a copy of which is with the TOI, Lalu questioned the “sudden decision” to shift him from AIIMS. Claiming that the decision could have been made under political pressure, Lalu said: “Doctors should not take any decision on political lines. Their first concern should be complete recovery of the patients.” He signed off saying that if anything happens to him, the AIIMS management would be held responsible.
 
 Meanwhile, RJD leaders said the decision is politically motivated. Lalu’s close aide Bhola Yadav said the central government is behind this sudden decision to send the RJD leader back to Ranchi. Bhola said he is with Lalu and will return to Ranchi by train. “He is suffering from several illnesses, yet he is being sent back to a place where there is no treatment for such diseases. People usually go to better centres for treatment of serious ailments, but Lalu is being sent back to a smaller medical centre. This is a political conspiracy,” Bhola said.
 
 Rims director Dr RK Srivastava and the Birsa Munda central jail management said they have not received any official communication about Lalu being sent back.
 
 
