Along with a few others from Chennai, Grammy-award-winning singer   made the city proud, yet again, after winning the First Ladies Award at   a few days ago. As she talks to us, her thoughts on women empowerment and way forward for women seem as powerful and reverberating as her voice and songs. Excerpts from an interview with her on being felicitated by the President of India, what women empowerment means to her and of course, music.

 
 Apart from getting an award, I was also the MC of the event. Apparently, they wanted one among the 112 women to compere it. I happily agreed when I was approached for it. The whole thing was quite a learning experience. And it was motivational to listen to inspirational stories of some of the women like   (the first Indian woman to win Paralympics medal) and   (the first physically challenged woman to top the civil services exam in the general category) among others. I was in awe of some of them like   (first woman army officer) and Captain   (first woman paratrooper). I also met three female fighter pilots. Imagine them walking with the entire battalion of men — it gives you goosebumps.
 
 
 
 I’m already a part of ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ campaign. I am not new to socially responsible initiatives — it’s there in my gene. My great grandfather started Vaishnav College for Women in Chrompet. He believed that women should be educated and that they should be independent. So, the philanthropy side of mine has always been there.
 
 Of late, women empowerment has become a subject of discussion. But is it really happening in rural India, where it is much needed?
 I wouldn’t say ‘No, no... it is happening’. There are areas where it is not happening. But it is slowly starting to happen. One thing I completely agree with what Major Priya said is that women shouldn’t use our feminity to avoid difficult circumstances. That’s the change we need.
 
 
 
 Last year, I finished a couple of tracks in Hebrew and Italian. I also did a Portuguese-Hindi mash up. I’m also working on a few more tracks in other languages. I am just trying different languages because that is my forte. I am in a very happy phase right now and love the time I spend experimenting different things in music. I am not running after something. 
 
 
 
 You can keep singing. But if you’re looking for fame, it has a totally different angle to it. But unless you go after it, you won’t get it. Fair enough? So, it all depends on how badly you want it. I can talk only for myself. I am taking each day as it comes. Of course, I do have goals in life, but I don’t want to rush into things. If I am called, I will definitely go and sing. But in the film industry, they have certain wants; they want a particular voice for a particular genre. Frankly, I think I have a very different timbre. And when people want to experiment with my voice, I go and sing.
 
 
 
 It all depends on the movie. If it works, it’s good for the film. Today, you can auto-tune the voice. It’s in the hands of the director or the music director. If they want it that way, who are we to question or stop it? If you don’t like it, that’s your issue. Here, if an actor is singing, people are like, ‘Oh! This one is singing?’ But in Hollywood, it’s a different thing. If an actor is called to sing, they are like ‘you better sing well’. And they sing, play piano or ukulele, etc. As an actor, they all have some musical training. Come on,   sang for Duets!
 
 
 
 Mary J Blige and Common.
 
