AHMEDABAD/MUMBAI:   (ATS) on Thursday night arrested a key accused in the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts case   alias Lambu, an associate of   alias   who is an aide of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim.   was nabbed from the coastal area of Valsad.

 Lambu was absconding for the past 25 years and, according to police, he remained in Dubai for most of the time. On March 12, 1993, serial blasts had rocked Mumbai at 12 places in which 257 persons were killed and 713 were injured.
 
 According to   ATS, Lambu was in India to execute a gold smuggling assignment through the sea route from India to a Gulf country. “We got a tip-off about his presence in Valsad and arrested him,” said a senior ATS official.
 
 SP Operations, Gujarat ATS, Himanshu Shukla, said Lambu carried a reward of Rs 5 lakh on his arrest since 1996 and a red corner notice had already been issued against him. The ATS official said that Lambu used to stay at a building near Musafirkhana in Mumbai, which was one of the places from where Dawood Ibrahim used to run the underworld of Mumbai.
 
 “We will hand him over to the Mumbai unit of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) which is probing the Mumbai serial blasts case,” said Shukla.
 
 A few months ago, another absconding accused in the case Mohammed Farooq alias Takla — an alleged Dawood Ibrahim aide — was arrested after being extradited from UAE.
 
 According to the ATS, Lambu was wanted in Bharuch arms landing case too. “This is an important arrest,” said CBI special public prosecutor Deepak Salvi, adding that Ahmed Kamal Shaikh could give vital information about the blasts conspiracy meeting held in Dubai in which Dawood Ibrahim too had participated.
 
 Gujarat ATS sources said that Lambu was involved in landing of RDX, AK-56 rifles, grenades, ammunition and detonators at Dighi Port in Raigarh district of Maharashtra. “He also took part in planning, terror training in Pakistan, and executing the blasts along with Dawood Ibrahim, his brother Anees Ibrahim, Tiger Memon, Mustafa Majnu, Salim Meera Shaikh alias Kutta, Yusuf Batka and Saeed Qureshi,” said an ATS official.
 
 Mumbai police sources said that Lambu was also suspected to be involved in subsequent transportation of a part of the arms cache, explosives and ammunition to Bharuch in Gujarat.
 
 Mustafa Dossa, brother of the absconding accused Mohammed Dossa, had faced trial along with seven others in the case. Mustafa was pronounced guilty last year. He died of cardiac arrest at the JJ Hospital in Mumbai where he was admitted when he complained of chest pain at Arthur Road Jail. Special Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act (Tada) court of G A Sanap had convicted   of charges of conspiracy, murder, and terror.
 
 Salim Meera Shaikh, who had participated in the landing of ammunition and grenades at Dighi port in Raigad district near Mumbai, is serving life imprisonment and currently serving his term at Pune’a Yerawada jail. Farooq, who is alleged to have arranged accommodation for several co-accused in Dubai, is in judicial custody and his next remand date in June 6.
 
 The main conspirators still wanted are Tiger Memon, Mohammed Dossa, Dawood Ibrahim and Anees Ibrahim.
 
