LUCKNOW: The highly   was recovered from the room of a hotel at   on Sunday. The body was detected when repeated calls from the housekeeping staff to the room went unanswered and a foul smell was detected. The deceased was identified as Arpit Dixit (28) hailing from Shahjahanpur district. 

 Police said that the housekeeping staff of Hotel Continental at   crossing in Kaiserbagh police station area noticed that the inmate of room number 203 was not responding to calls and a 'do not disturb' slip was placed on the room's door.
 
  The staff said that they got suspicious as a foul smell was emanating from the room. The staff informed their senior Sachin Verma who knocked the door but got no response. He then informed police control room. 
 
 A team of police personnel led by sub-inspector Rajesh Singh reached the spot and the door was broken. The body of a man lying with his face downwards was found on the bed. "The body was in highly decomposed state and was stinking terribly. It appeared to be two days old. We failed to detect any injury on the body," he said.
 
  ASP (west) Vikas Chandra Tripathi said, "Investigations have revealed that Dixit was a designer and was studying footwear designing at a premier institute in Rae Bareli. He had checked in the hotel room that was booked in the name of one Abhinav at around 6pm on May 3. He had also produced the ID of Abhinav. Around 6.25pm, Abhinav joined Dixit and they stayed together for two days. CCTV footage shows Abhinav leaving the hotel in the morning of May 5. Abhinav didn't return thereafter. We have found that Abhinav is a native of TP Nagar in Kanpur and is a teacher at a polytechnic in Bahraich. He had booked the room online." 
 
 ASP Tripathi said it was still not known how Abhinav and Dixit knew each other. The postmortem examination will reveal the cause of death, he added.
 
 "It seems to be a complex case though injuries could not be detected as the body was recovered in a highly decomposed state. Prima facie, Abhinav is the prime suspect," the ASP said.
 
 
