PUNE: Deputy commissioner of police   said police investigators in the Enforcement Directorate (ED)’s complaint related to a housing project on 0.83 hectares of attached land in   would have to go through a number of documents before arriving at any conclusion.

 “The entire case is based on documents and records. We have to examine the documents provided by the Enforcement Directorate as well as by the housing society and its developer and the office of the Inspector-General of Registrations (IGR),” Shinde, who heads the zone III area of the city police, told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 Vikram Patil, the assistant commissioner of police of the Chatushrungi division under zone III, is investigating the case.
 
 Authorities at the IGR office said that they would have to examine the registration documents related to the land for establishing any irregularity.
 
 As of now, the 85 techies and their families residing in the Scrum Utkarsh housing society, developed on the land by the  , are contemplating their next move of legally challenging the ED’s eviction notice before the Appellate Tribunal under Prevention of   Act (PMLA) in Delhi.
 
 According to the ED’s complaint, the land was provisionally attached in March 2013 during an investigation into a money laundering case against a Mumbai-based businessman and his group of companies. An adjudicating authority under PMLA confirmed the provisional attachment in July 2013.
 
 It is alleged that despite these attachment orders, the land was first sold in September 2013 to a realty firm, which sold the property to   — a company set up by 100 and odd software professionals for developing a housing project of their own in January 2014. The ED has since named the businessman; the two partners in the realty firm; the director of Hindavi Swarajya, the sub-registrar offices at Mulshi, Paud and Mulshi-2 in the FIR for cheating and conspiracy.
 
 Questions remain as to how the transfer of property from the businessman to the realty firm and, later, from the realty firm to the   got registered at the sub-registrar’s offices at Mulshi, Paud and Mulshi-2 despite the attachment proceedings. The 7/12 extract related to the land did not carry any remark about the attachment order, as is the case being made out by the Hindavi Swarjya office-bearers justifying the purchase of the land from the real estate firm.
 
 In September 2015, the ED had written to the IGR office to stop registering any property transaction involving the housing society. 
 
 While IGR Anil Kawade is on election duty in   and the deputy registrar was on leave, a senior IGR official, who did not wish to be named, said, “Under Section 44 of the Registration Act, we cannot prevent any property from being registered, but we can list such property with a negative remark. What precisely happened in the case of the Scrum Utkarsh society is something we have to see by going through the relevant registration documents.” 
 
 
