LUCKNOW: UP Public Service Commission chairman  , who has challenged the state government’s recommendation for a   probe into the panel’s appointments, said here on Thursday that the   government wanted him to resign. Yadav, who had been appointed by the SP government, was summoned by chief minister   to Lucknow on Wednesday to explain why did he go against the government’s move.

 In an exclusive interview to TOI, Yadav said that the state government was interfering with the autonomy of the commission by ordering an inquiry without following the proper procedure and putting pressure to stop appointments and asking the chairman to resign. “I was asked by one of the chief secretaries of the present government to resign,” he said.
 
 When asked about a slew of allegations against the commission — not following laid-down procedures and appointing candidates of a particular caste in large number, Yadav said that these were all baseless. “It’s all a canard against the commission. I have submitted a detailed report to the government in this regard. Anybody is welcome to check these facts,” Yadav said, refusing to say anything on his predecessor as his matter was in court.
 
 
 
 
 His predecessor, Anil Yadav, was removed after the high court declared his appointment illegal and the Supreme Court upheld it. Anirudh Yadav took over as the chairman of   in April 2016 and in August 2017, the Yogi government sent its recommendation to the Centre for a CBI probe into all appointments by the commission between 2012 and March 2017. The Centre ordered the probe last month after which Anirudh Yadav and members of the commission challenged the order in high court.
 
 Talking to TOI, Anirudh Yadav when a new government was formed in March 2017, the secretary of the commission was directed from the chief secretary office to stop all recruitments, though no written orders were given. “That was the first attempt to interfere with the functioning of the commission. I sought direction from the Raj Bhawan and was told that the commission should wait for the written orders from the state government,” Yadav said. “Then one of the chief secretaries of the present government put pressure on me to resign from the post. I asked what was the validity and reason for forcing me to resign when I face no charge, nor do I have any controversial records. I have a five-year tenure and completed just one year in office,” he added. Now, by recommending a CBI inquiry into the functioning of the commission, even without following the basic procedure, the UP government has made a brazen attempt to subvert its autonomy. “The Constitution is very clear in this regard. In case of a public service commission, the state government has to recommend to the President who would ask the Supreme Court for an inquiry. No less than a n SC judge can conduct an inquiry into the functioning of a commission,” Yadav explained.
 
 When asked whether he would resign after he has explained his position before the state government, Yadav shot back: “Why should I? What is the basis for asking my resignation?”
 
