LUDHIANA: A fire nearly destroyed a five-storied hosiery factory at   here on Saturday morning, after a boiler exploded on its fourth floor. As the industrial unit contained highly inflammable woolen and cotten fabrics, and an LPG cylinder burst on the third floor after it came in contact with the flames, the blaze engulfed the entire building within a matter of minutes, according to eyewitnesses.

 A fire official said damage to the building was extensive as   took place inside it and the only saving grace was that it did not collapse. One of the factory owners, who stays on the third floor, suffered minor burns in the fire which broke out around 7am. A pet dog and a monkey, which had been chained on the terrace of the building, were killed. Though 16 fire engines were pressed into service, the blaze could only be controlled by 3pm. Some fire tenders were still stationed outside the factory at evening, as officials feared fabrics kept inside could catch fire again.
 
 Though the owners were yet to assess the losses, machinery and raw material kept inside the bulding were completely destroyed. The injured owner, Laddi Makkar, said he was sleeping on the third floor when he was woken up by smoke. As he rushed down the stairs, Laddi came in touch with the blaze and suffered burns on his arms. It is yet to be ascertained what caused the boiler to explode as no worker was present when the explosion happened. 
 
 Black smoke, caused by the burning of fabrics, made it tough for the fire brigade to douse the blaze. “Flames were everywhere inside the factory. The twin explosions even shook adjoining buildings,” said assistant divisional fire officer Bhupinder Singh Sandhu.
 
 Assistant divisional fire officer Sandhu said there was no fire-safety arrangements made inside the factory and even water was not available in the area. He said they were refilling fire tenders from a tube well near Chand Cinema and Sunder Nagar fire station, and this consumed a lot of time. He said they did not allow firemen to enter the building because it was unsafe to remain inside. 
 
 
 
