In the latest episode of  , Popatlal arrives in the society's compound, yelling at Bhide. The two get into a verbal fight, wherein   accuses   of taking his scooter without seeking his permission. Bhide asks him to return his scooter, but Popat is so upset with Bhide's curse that he tells him he won't disclose where he has hidden the scooter. 

 When their fight gets intense, Popat even tells Bhide that he has sold his scooter and added the money in his marriage fund. This makes Bhide mad at him and he further curses Popat by telling him that he won't get married for another 10 years. Mehta calls   and asks him to return to the society as he feels the situation is going out of his hands. Jethalal and Sodhi are left with no option but to do so. 
 
 Eventually when Popat tells Bhide that there is no reason for him to take his scooter out as he was working the entire night, Bhide's anger cools off. Popat further tells him how all his accusations are baseless and without any rationale. Bhide apologizes to Popat and tells him he was very tensed. The latter, too, seeks forgiveness as he realizes he shouldn't have been so upset. 
 
 Popat then asks Bhide who actually instigated him, and the latter tells him it was Jethalal. Just then, Jethalal arrives on the scene. Bhide and Popat run after him. Jethalal, however, manages to pacify them by apologizing profusely. They all then head to Mehta's house to drink water and discuss Sakharam. While they are sitting, Popat asks Jethalal why he called him at 3.30 in the night. Jethalal is seen in a fix. Then Komal, Anjali and Roshan reveal how their husbands were out at night. 
 
 This makes them all suspicious. However, Mehta, Jethalal, Sodhi and Hathi give excuses to save themselves. After they are done, Popat again asks Jethalal why he called him as he still had not answered his question. To this, Jethalal tells him that he saw a dream last night in which Popat had got married to a beautiful woman, and flying off for his honeymoon to Switzerland. So he couldn't wait to tell this to Popat. The latter is thrilled to hear this dream. 
 
 Keep watching this space for more updates on Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah.
 
