For sometime now, there have been rumours about long-time couple   and   splitting because of compatibility issues. The actor duo had a roka four years ago, following a courtship of two years, and were planning to tie the knot in November, 2016. However, they cancelled their   plans in the wake of demonetisation, and ever since, have been fielding queries about their break-up. 

 When we got in touch with Shakti, he replied, “All is well with us. I have become thick-skinned, and rumours about my split, marriage and kids don’t affect me anymore. It’s part and parcel of this profession.” He added, “I won’t let my personal life overshadow my work; that’s the reason I am averse to reality shows as well — they put your personal life on display. If at all I take up a reality show, it will be to showcase my talent.” 
 
 So, when is he planning to get married? “I feel that I am not yet ready for marriage. Neha and I want to focus on our careers. We had a roka four years ago, toh koi kahiin bhaaga nahi jaa raha hai. We will take the plunge when the time is right,” he replied. 
 
 On the professional front, Shakti is back in India after an eight-month successful acting stint in Indonesia. He is now looking at taking up a challenging project here. While it was reported that he has been signed on for producer Rashmi Sharma’s next, the actor denied the news. He said, “It isn’t true. I met her a year ago for a show for which I was almost confirmed, but I then left for Indonesia, where I worked on a fiction show, a reality show and a film. There has been no movement on Rashmi’s project since then. Now that I am back in India for good, I want to take up a show here.”
 
 When asked whether he lost out on some crucial months on Indian television following the success of his TV show ' ', Shakti replied, “I have done many Indian shows and wasn’t desperate for one at that time. In fact, it seemed like a good opportunity to test new waters. In the bargain, I learnt an international language and experienced a new lifestyle. Several actors have tried their luck in Indonesia, but it’s not easy to make a name for yourself in a new market. Unlike Indian TV, they pull down a show, which doesn’t do well, in just a week. But I have been fortunate to be able to sustain there.”
 
