PUNE: Unmanned traffic and mismanagement by the organisers marred the 52nd edition of the Mumbai-Pune cycle race on Sunday.

 
  
  
 The race that began from Kala Ghoda in Mumbai at 8am on Sunday was scheduled to finish opposite   on   in Pune. 
 
 Everything was according to the plan till the cyclists reached Shivajinagar. Matters went haywire after they entered JM Road. Organisers did not give any official figures, but it was estimated that as many as 180 riders participated in the event on Sunday.
 
 The riders, who had picked pace in the last 500m, were seen struggling to control their cycles as other vehicles whizzed past them once the signal at Rani Jhansi Chowk turned green.
 
 The traffic that should have been halted till the riders reached the finish line was allowed to flow down the road. Cyclists were seen riding amidst other vehicles that included PMPML buses, cars, motocycles and pedestrians.
 
 Such was the chaos that even the organisers had no clue about the winner for at least an hour. They had to rely on the camera installed at the finish line, before they announced the winners.
 
 The organisers blamed on the traffic police for the chaos. “We had taken all the required permission from the police and had intimated them about the race. They should have managed the traffic,” one of the officials present at the finish line said.
 
 When contacted, deputy commissioner of police (traffic)   told TOI that there were no shortcomings at their end and the policemen had done their job well.
 
 “It was a sensitive bandobast. We had deployed out staff and officers to monitor the bicycle race. Vehicles were not allowed to travel on the city roads where the cyclist passed according to the route they provided us,” Morale added.
 
 However, he said, a large number of motorcycles of the organisers entered the race on JM Road. “Our teams in the   control room were watching this development. Most motorcycles belonged to the organisers. However, nothing untoward happened on the road,” he said. 
 
 JM Road is an arterial road and despite this, vehicles were not allowed to ply on the road when the cyclists were approaching the finish line, he reiterated. About JM Road being the finishing point, Morale said it was the organisers’ choice but they should choose a safer place, the next time.
 
 Ahmednagar-based cyclist   crashed 10m before the finish line, missing out on finishing among the top-10. He said he was brought down by the milling crowd near the finish line. 
 
 CAM secretary   said there was no provision of an appeal or a protest in the race. “ Mohite’s case was an accident which happens in such events. They happen even in Tour de France,” Jadhav added.
 
 He said he was not aware of the chaos near the finish line. “I was not there when the race ended. I reached late, so I can’t say anything about it,” he added. He did not comment on keeping JM Road as the finish point the next time too.
 
 The race is organized by  . Its 51st edition was conducted in 2016.The absence of sponsors put the event off calendar for two years.
 
 
