PUNE: An   addressed to police commissioner Rashmi Shukla uncovered the truth behind the death of a one-and-a-half-year-old girl in an accident at a construction site on March 6 in Phursungi.

 
 A probe by the Hadapsar police, following receipt of the letter, revealed that the girl was run over by an earthmoving machine while she was playing at the site. The building contractor and two others had allegedly convinced her parents, who work as labourers, against reporting the matter to the police. The trio also made them perform the last rites. 
 
 The police on Monday registered an offence of negligence causing death and destruction of evidence against the building contractor, driver and the owner of the earthmoving machine. No one has been arrested to far. 
 
 The police said the suspects had not shared information of the girl’s death with the police. The incident came to light a fortnight since the girl’s death after the letter written in Marathi reached the police commissioner’s office. 
 
 The police chief took serious cognisance of the incident and ordered deputy commissioner of police (Zone IV) Deepak Sakore to conduct an inquiry. Sakore appointed inspector (Hadapsar police) Anjum Bagwan to conduct an inquiry and submit a report at the earliest.
 
 Bagwan told TOI, “We recorded statements of a number of people, including the victim’s parents. They were not cooperating with the police initially. We took them into confidence and they subsequently shared details of the incident. However, they were not keen on filing complaint against the suspects.”
 
 He added, “We summoned the builder, who admitted questioning that the girl had died after she came under the rear wheels of an earthmoving machine. The builder had appointed a contractor for the excavation work at the site. The contractor, in turn, had appointed the owner of an earthmoving machine. He had then hired a driver for the work.”
 
 On March 6, the girl and her parents were sleeping in their house. Around 2.30pm, she woke up, rushed outside to play, came under the rear wheels of the earthmoving machine and died. “We have lodged an FIR against under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicles Act. The suspects will be arrested soon and a charge sheet will be filed before a magisterial court,” Bagwan said. 
 
 
