Trichy: The Urban Local Body (ULB) here is literally abandoning its 47.5acre large dump yard in   on the city outskirts. The site known for housing mounds of waste that hit headlines while going up in smoke every extreme summer is gradually losing its purpose for good. With Trichy Corporation focusing heavily on Solid Waste Management (SWM) and decentralised waste collection cum disposal, the waste every day heading to Ariyamangalam dump yard has declined drastically by 80% in last two years. As more number of micro compost yards (decentralised waste processing mechanism) is being opened, the civic body plans to rehabilitate the land used as dump yard in a year or two.

 It all started in August 2016 when the civic body launched a micro compost yard facility in Pookollai on Thanjavur Road. The facility, acting as a scaled-down entity of the dump yard, would receive the waste every day and segregate them as degradable and non-biodegradable on a daily basis. Unlike dump yards, the micro compost centre would recycle the collected waste. Meanwhile, as the dump yard in Ariyamangalam was going up in smoke frequently during summer, the corporation looked up at the micro compost yard as a solution. Subsequently, the successful micro compost yard concept in Pookollai was expanded to 24 other spots covering 70% of the city in the past two years. "Micro compost yards besides serving as a tool for decentralised waste management have been effectively recycling the waste. While the degradable waste was made into compost, the non-degradable waste was sold to scrap dealers for a price, and the sum was shared among the sanitary workers," said, S Kannan, executive engineer, Trichy Corporation.
 
 As many as 25 micro compost yards are recycling the waste, bio gas plants are operational at Ambedkar Nagar, and Karumandapam are making use of food and vegetable waste to produce green energy. Aimed at preventing the waste flow from reaching Ariyamangalam, the corporation through a private environmental organisation has been processing and supplying quality alternate fuel prepared from the city’s non-biodegradable waste to a cement factory in Ariyalur. With these alternative steps, the civic body from sending 400mt per day to the dump yard in Ariyamangalam in April 2016 has managed to limit the quantity to 68mt per day as on April 2018. "To ensure that no waste is heading to Ariyamangalam dump yard, we are taking a slew of efforts such as identifying the bulk waste generators and asking them to process their own waste. The coming months will further see a decline in the amount of waste heading to the dump yard," corporation commissioner N Ravichandran said. Within 2018, the civic body has planned to ensure the availability of micro compost centre to each of the 65 wards for ensuring cent percent recycling of waste generated by city each day.
 
 
