NEW DELHI: A group of transport ministers (GoM) from states on Thursday recommended uniform onetime road tax for vehicles across the country to put an end to the practice of people buying and registering vehicles in neighbouring states where the tax rate is low. 

 
 The GoM meeting held in Guwahati has also recommended national bus and taxi permit on the lines of trucks and other goods carriage vehicles, which is paid annually. A national permit system for taxis and buses will mean that operators won’t need to pay different taxes for plying in states as they can make the annual payment to ply across the country. 
 
 This will bring ease in their operations. Every buyer of a new private vehicle pays 10 years’ road tax upfront and this covers the liability for 15 years. Road tax slab is linked to the vehicle’s cost. Trucks and other commercial vehicles pay road tax annually. 
 
  
  
 
 This tax is high in   and   in comparison to their neighbouring states. Similarly, it’s comparatively higher in Delhi than in   and this is why one can find many residents of the capital choose to buy their vehicles there. “We had discussed both the issues with the state transport secretaries last week. We have also asked them how to ensure that transfer of vehicle registration and driving licence can be made seamless as more and more people are now moving from one state to another,” road transport secretary   told TOI. 
 
 The prime minister’s office had recently asked the ministry to come out with a roadmap to resolve such issues as a part of government’s thrust on “Ease of Living” initiative. Another ministry official said, “Currently, people submit affidavit to buy a vehicle from any state other than their place of residence. We will make the process stringent and every buyer will have to provide substantial residence proof for registration.” 
 
 According to an official release by the transport ministry the GoM has also recommended liberalisation of permit system for electric vehicles and raising the tax on diesel vehicles by 2%.
 
