Singer  , who made his debut as a playback singer with En Uchimandai from Vijay’s  , has come a long way. “I have been into singing from a very young age; both my parents used to sing and I participated in many singing competitions as a child. But I never thought of it as a career option. So, after college, I joined an IT company. Once, at a wedding, I was asked to sing, and music director  , who had attended the function, was impressed with my rendition and asked me to visit his studio. When I heard my voice in a new composition, I was surprised and   sir motivated me to take up playback singing seriously. That’s how it all started,” says Krishna.

 He went through an extremely difficult phase in life when he quit his job to pursue singing seriously. “I couldn’t concentrate on both, So, I quit my job and my parents were furious with my decision. I moved out of my house and struggled for about nine months. Then, I   Antony sir gave me an opportunity — my first ever song. He called me to sing En Uchimandai. A total of nine singers had sung that song, and the list also included a few leading singers. After comparing all the voices, Vijay (actor) sir chose mine, saying it was unique and would suit the song. I am grateful to Vijay sir for that.”
 
 Talking about the challenges of singing in a live concert, he says, “You will never know what sort of audience you will see. Someone would be in a bad frame of mind and some would be absolutely ecstatic. So, you have to set the mood in your first two songs. As a performer, you will know by the end of your fourth song what the audiences are up to and what they want. So, you can continue performing those kind of songs which they enjoy. You should always keep track of their mood, that’s extremely important.”
 
 Does he think a singer can survive by singing in one particular genre in this competitive field? “Have you ever seen Shreya Ghoshal sing a song like Andrea or vice versa? If Andrea had sung Munbe Vaa, it would be a completely different song. It’s only in reality shows that contestants are asked to sing in all genres. Leave the legendary singers like   sir, Yesudas sir, they are incomparable. In this generation, I think a singer can sing in only one genre. I am not saying a singer can’t attempt other genres, but they can only imitate others and won’t be able to bring the originality of the genre. And, I think you can survive by singing in one particular genre, but, you have to do justice to the song and entertain the public. I am comfortable with folk and melody genres.”
 
 Krishna Iyer had sung Google Google from Thuppakki along with Vijay. Sharing the experience of working with Vijay, he says, “Initially, the song didn’t have his voice. Once he came to the studio, he listened to the composition and sung the song in a jiffy. He is a born singer. Shoba aunty (Vijay’s mother) is a Carnatic singer. So, singing came naturally to him; leave alone Google Google, he has sung many good songs like Kandangi Kandangi.”
 
