GANDHINAGAR: After the Congress’s symbolic fast, the Gujarat BJP drew a lot of criticism over its own “symbolic fast” on Thursday, which it called the “Lokshahi Bachao Protest and Fast”, against what it alleged was the Congress-led opposition’s obstruction of Parliament for the entire budget session. 

 After a formal announcement that he would join the fast organized by the state BJP in the Lal Darwaza area of Ahmedabad, chief minister Vijay Rupani avoided doing so. He remained at his official residence in Gandhinagar.
 
 Deputy CM   took part in the fast at a dharna in Mehsana. BJP ministers, MLAs, MPs and other office bearers participated in dharnas at various places in the state. State BJP president   participated in the fast at a programme in Vadodara.
 
 At many places, BJP leaders held dharnas with indulgences such as air coolers and chilled mineral water. In Vadodara, BJP workers covered a statue of Mahatma Gandhi. When   members raised an uproar over it, the BJP removed the covering. The Congress criticized the BJP for using luxuries such as air coolers and domes. They also alleged that the BJP workers were eating before and after their fast.
 
 Paresh Dhanani, leader of the opposition in the Gujarat assembly, said, “The BJP’s five-star fasts shows that it has accepted its defeat in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and held these dharnas to prepare for sitting in the opposition. Opposition parties usually hold dharnas to highlight the failures of governments. Today, those who are in power in Gujarat for 22 years and in the Centre for 48 months, are holding dharnas. The BJP, by this move, has accepted their failure in addressing public grievances. BJP insulted Mahatma Gandhi in Vadodara by covering his statue.”
 
 Jitu Vaghani, Gujarat BJP president, said, “What the Congress did was a five-star part-time dharna. Everybody saw on TV how Congress leaders sat on a one-hour dharna after eating. I challenge them to fast like us from morning to evening in such large numbers. Congress leaders themselves are not used to seating in the heat like us. In Vadodara, we accepted our mistake of covering Gandhiji’s face. It was not intentional. As soon as we realised our mistake, we uncovered it and garlanded the statue again. The people of Gujarat knows who had non-veg and liquor parties in Gandhiji’s birthplace, Porbandar, during Sonia Gandhi’s rally. The Congress must stop misusing Gandhiji’s name.”
 
 
