HYDERABAD: The All India Tiger Census will provide an estimate of the number of tigers in the country, but that's not all. More important, the comprehensive survey of the entire   will detect the 'human footprint' in animal territory. In the survey being undertaken after four years in every forest area, a record will be made of how much of human interference has crept into the habitat of the animals. 

 
 "Based on that, measures will have to be taken to protect the forests and ensure that animals do not feel threatened and are safe in their habitat," said principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF), IT and publicity, P  , of the Telangana forest department. 
  
 Though the exercise is being dubbed as tiger census, fact is that such a census takes place twice a year in tiger reserves and once a year in tiger sanctuaries. The exercise that is being undertaken all over the country from January 22 to 29 will practically be a gigantic attempt to find out the presence of all types of animals and also vegetation. 
 
 In Telangana, eight species of carnivorous and another eight species of   are known to exist.
 
 Predators, co-predators and other animals will be enumerated during the census. These include tigers, leopards, hyenas, jackals, bears, spotted deer and the like. Vegetation in the forests will give an indication on which of the animals could be in the vicinity. 
 
 The food pyramid is what gives away the presence of animals. The scat of animals will be collected during the exercise to determine which animals are present in the area. Their footprints will also be collected.   that have been in existence will anyway be there.
 
 "During the first three days, staff and volunteers will walk in the beats to detect indications of the presence of the animals. During the second round, the focus will be on spotting an animal," an official said. In what is known as a transect (path), staff and volunteers will walk 2km to directly   The census being conducted in tiger reserves and sanctuaries cover only 10% of the total forest area. The remaining forest area is surveyed once every four years. 
 
