Bengaluru: The universal health coverage scheme —Arogya Karnataka — has been launched but several questions remain unanswered. As per the government order, the state will bear costs up to Rs 1.5 lakh and an additional Rs 50,000 per family per annum, and the rest must be paid by the patient. However, the private sector has raised financial concerns and questioned the rider that accompanies the scheme. 

 “Patients’ families will be left in the lurch as they can’t be beneficiaries of   if they are availing any other insurance scheme. If the bill exceeds Rs 1.5 lakh, the patient will end up paying from his/her pocket. How is it a cashless healthcare facility,” asked a doctor from the Private Hospital and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA). 
 
 Though the scheme accommodates everyone, notwithstanding their financial status, it comes with the rider that the patient has to first avail treatment at a government hospital and can be referred to a private empanelled hospital only if the treatment is unavailable at the government facility.
 
 Dr Nagendra Swamy SC, chief coordinator, Federation of Healthcare providers (FHP), feels the referral system will only add to the chaos. “If all was well with government hospitals, why would people come to private ones? Getting a referral letter from government hospital authorities to shift the patient to an empanelled private hospital will be easier said than done and could lead to corruption,” he said 
 
 He added the scheme covers only surgical intervention whereas in many cases like dengue, treatment does not require surgery but medical management. “The scheme will neither help patients nor hospitals,” he said. Healthcare industry leaders said they will meet the health minister or health department officials once the government communicates to private hospitals about the scheme. Health cards will be issued at 10 select government hospitals from Monday.
 
 What about Centre’s Rs 5L insurance scheme?
 
 Doctors are also wondering how the state will incorporate the universal health insurance coverage of Rs 5 lakh per family/annum announced in the Union budget-2018. “We welcome the state’s move but are still don’t know how the Centre’s scheme and Arogya Karnataka will be integrated,” said Dr Jayanna, president-elect, PHANA. 
 
 The state government has to contribute 40% financial support for the central scheme. “Is Karnataka taking up both the schemes? Rs 5 lakh is thrice the amount offered by Arogya Karnataka,” said a doctor.
 
 N Tabassum Abroo, executive director, Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust which is implementing the scheme, said no communication has been received from the Centre on its insurance scheme. “As of now, it has only been announcement in the Union budget. When it is rolled out, we will take a call,” said Abroo.
 
 Lacks regulation
 
 Dr Sylvia Karpagam, public health expert, said the scheme lacks regulation. “The government order (GO) reads that empanelled hospitals can charge general patients (APL patients) as per publicly disclosed rates. However, there is no mention of what penalty will be levied on hospitals if the charges are not as per the display. The 30 per cent reimbursement for patients is only a bait to lure them to private hospitals. But the GO lacks regulation for the 70 per cent of the bill amount the patient pays from his pocket,” she opined.
 
 
