NEW DELHI: As one of the world’s oldest civilisations, the Indian landscape is replete with historical remnants. Indeed, the Archaeological Survey of India has over 3,600 monuments under its custody. Now, 157 years after its establishment, ASI is finding it difficult to maintain these structures while keeping pace with the demands of the tourism sector.

 
 Last year, the Union ministry of tourism floated the idea of corporates adopting India’s key monuments, taking the responsibility for their maintenance, upkeep and tourist amenities. However, archaeological officials point out that funding is not the real problem — lack of resources, manpower and trained personnel is.
 
 
  
 
  became the first so-called Monument Mitra when it recently “adopted” Delhi’s Red Fort. In April, 31 prospective ‘friends’ of heritage sites had been shortlisted by an oversight and vision committee for developing tourist-friendly infrastructure at 95 historical places, including the  ,  , Hampi (Karnataka), Sun Temple (Odisha),   (Maharashtra), Char Minar (Hyderabad) and   ( ). Purana Qila in Delhi was embraced by NBCC last year, and the construction PSU has already chalked out an elaborate plan on boosting visitor facilities there.
 
 But heritage experts and ASI itself aren’t too enamoured of the idea of companies taking responsibility of heritage buildings. For one, ASI comes under the culture ministry and the tourism is another kettle of fish. As an ASI official pointed out while requesting anonymity, “We are traditionalists by nature. We do want interference in the maintenance of monuments and prefer keeping things simple. Any tourism ministry proposal ideally pushes measures to enhance tourist experience and revenue generation, when all we want is to ensure maintenance of heritage sanctity.”
 
 Admittedly though, places of historic importance in India are extremely poor in terms of visitor amenities. Barring Humayun’s Tomb where a museum is being set up by the Aga Khan Trust for Culture, none of the ASI monuments have a site museum or basic amenities for visitors.
 
 Purana Qila has a small, shabby museum where relics recovered in excavations undertaken by ASI in the area are displayed. Despite being the most visited, Qutub Minar has no site museum yet. Jantar Mantar and Safdarjung Tomb are also popular sites, but forget museums there.
 
 Red Fort has three museums, but they are bursting at the seams and in poor shape; ASI’s plans to convert the British barracks into well designed galleries have been doing the rounds for several years without getting off the drawing board.
 
 None of the monuments have cafeterias worth their name, drinking water facilities or even clean toilets. A site like Tughlakabad Fort has tremendous potential for visitors, but offering nothing to tourists at present, not even benches, signboards or pathways. Sultangarhi’s tomb is a ticketed site, but gets barely half a dozen visitors owing to its remote location and poor accessibility.
 
 The problem, ASI says, is lack of trained manpower, not funds. For the Delhi circle, for example, ASI has an annual budget of around Rs 10 crore. This is adequate for maintenance and creation of new facilities in at least 20 select sites. “There are far too few attendants to look after 174 monuments, and as far as security is concerned, ASI is forced to outsource the work. We don’t have trained archaeologists and conservationists, technical experts, civil engineers and security personnel,’’ admitted a former ASI official.
 
 It is to tackle these issues that some agree corporate adoption could prove helpful. But the current Adopt a Heritage scheme has raised some red flags.
 
 “The companies are only to be concerned with building tourist infrastructure in the monument complexes, but the tourism ministry has to have more specific guidelines on these,” advised a top conservationist. “Amenities at a heritage site cannot be independent of the heritage value of the place and there has to be a monitoring mechanism in place. Otherwise the adoption scheme is bound to be a disaster.”
 
 Others said that even the companies haven’t had time to figure out what is expected of them. In the case of Red Fort, for instance, what work will Dalmia Bharat undertake there? “We are already constructing new ticket windows, opening galleries in the British barracks, shifting the electricity connections underground and by June 30 will have put in new facade illumination. Also, a lot of work for visitor services is already under way. We are yet to comprehend what Dalmia Bharat will do,” said a baffled ASI official.
 
