COIMBATORE: A craft, which was seen as an occupation meant for just a section of the society, is now gaining widespread interest. Passion for pottery has led many people to dovetail with the craft as an art form. 

 Dinakar Perumal, 40, a city-based electronics engineer is a typical example. Dinakar, who had been working in a software firm in the US, wanted to learn pottery. But he couldn’t, as he had to travel far from where he resided. When he came back to India in 2010, he wanted to pursue his interest and visited   in  , where they teach pottery. But he couldn’t stay there for a year-long course as his business endeavours needed his presence. Similar was the case when he went to Bengaluru to learn pottery.
 
 When he wanted to learn the art in Coimbatore, he found that there were no places that taught it. This prompted him to start a studio in the city where he could practice the art from and also impart his skills to others. “I wouldn’t call myself a professional potter. I wanted to share the art that I learnt for almost seven months in Puducherry and Bengaluru,” says Dinakaran. He says Simply Arts Studio that he started in December at Park School Arch Road in Uppilipalayam, is his effort to promote people to excel in the art.
 
 The art form enables one to focus one’s mind and energy, says Dinakaran. “I teach the basic techniques of pottery such as centering, opening, lifting and shaping. When one practices the art with involvement, it gives an inner peace, whether one believes in it or not,” he adds.
 
 How has the response for the studio been, given that pottery is seen as a craft and not an art such as painting or dance? “Actually there is a huge crowd in the city that wanted to learn pottery. They had no place to learn,” says Dinakaran. He says how a doctor who when learnt that his studio taught wheel pottery, did not think twice before joining. 
 
 He says students, professionals, homemakers and children all come to learn the art.
 
 K Nithya, 52, a homemaker, who learns pottery at Dinakar’s studio, says she has found an interest in pottery after joining the classes. “I have been learning the basic techniques, and I am enjoying it,” she says. She says she hasn’t seen classes teaching pottery in the city before and when she saw Dinakar’s studio, she was interested in it. 
 
 Simply Arts studio also teaches clay sculpting, Tanjore painting and oil painting. 
 
