Actor  , who is playing the role of   in Siddharth Kumar Tewary’s 'Mahakaali – Anth Hi Aarambh Hai', is loving being part of the show. The actor says that his character excites him as it is very different to how he is in real life. “It’s a beautiful feeling! Everything that I do, everything that I am is so different from the character I play. The moment I am in the attire of Kartikeya, I just start to get goosebumps. I feel I am that warrior that we see in him. I feel I am the Commander of the Gods Army! It might sound a bit funny but it’s totally a different feeling when I’m playing Kartikeya. That’s how much I’m enjoying playing it and that’s how much I am attached to it now,” he says.

 The actor says that he is getting a wonderful response for his character. “The response has been overwhelming and the viewers are loving my role. That’s what has inspired me to keep working hard on the role and to make the character come alive,” he says. It was the action sequences that his character has to do, which motivated him to come on board. “My favourite genre to watch films has been action. And the moment I have an action scene to do, I’m instantly ready because that’s how much I relate to it. I don’t use a body double for the action scenes, I do my own stunts. People say that there’s a certain charm about Kartikeya and I’m happy to have been able to do justice to the role,” he says.
 
 The actor has bonded well with his co-actors. “Saurabh is like an elder brother on the set. We are always talking about the kind of work that inspires us. The same is true with Pooja. I love her sense of humour and she’s always fun to have a conversation with. This is the second time Kanan Bhaiya and I are working together after   in which he played Yudhishthira and I played Abhimanyu. So, I have the most fun while he’s around. He just brings a certain joy. I love gossiping with Nikita. It’s always about the industry but it’s just fun at times,” he says. He adds, “I have bonded with everyone on the set. Even the whole supporting cast is fun to work with. So, it’s always a fun ride on the sets. We are always joking around.”
 
 Although he loves being part of the show,   admits that mythological shows are more challenging. “Mythological shows are always difficult to work on. The makeup and the costumes are tough to manage and you have to be more aware about yourself. Then there comes the performance. The kind of performance that is required for it is also on another level. So, the efforts and preparations are intense compared to a social show,” he says.
 
 The actor is shooting in Umbergaon currently and says that he is very comfortable there. “I wouldn’t say I don’t miss Mumbai, but I also feel at home in Umbergaon. I have been here for four month now. Having shot for 'Surya Putra Karn' also here, I enjoy my stay here while working. All the cast and unit members have become like a family, so it’s fun shooting over here. Plus, we get weekends off mostly, so I do catch up on everything,” he says.
 
 Ask him how it is to work with Siddharth as well as Rahul Kumar Tewary, and he says, “They are the best producers in the TV industry currently. The kind of vision they have is mesmerising and then their executing process is fun to work for. I sometimes tell this to my co-actors that the kind of shoot that happens here is no less than a big budget Bollywood film. So, I’m a fan of their work.”
 
 
