PANAJI: After scrapping its plans to build a satellite   at Betul,   Port Trust ( ) has now turned to Vijaydurg in Maharashtra, where it plans to construct a greenfield port to cater to container, crude oil, fertilizer, and limestone cargo. The Vijaydurg port will be developed in collaboration with Mumbai Port and Jawaharlal Nehru Port (JNPT) on the western bank of the Vagotan river, around 200 km from  .

 MPT sources told TOI that Tata Consulting Engineers has been picked to prepare the techno-economic feasibility report. 
 
 Efforts are now on to get the environment impact assessment done, so that the required environmental clearances can be obtained for the port.
 
 Mormugao Port, Mumbai Port and JN Port along, with Maharashtra Maritime Board, intend to develop the Vijaydurg Port jointly as a satellite port at Girye bay in Sindhudurg district,” a senior port official said.
 
 The curbs on coal imports and iron ore exports have led to   sources drying up for MPT, and the state-run port is looking at new revenue streams.
 
 “The demand for crude oil and petroleum at Vijaydurg will be driven by West Coast Mega Refinery (Ratnagiri Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd. – RRPCL), which is proposed at Babul wadi, in the immediate vicinity of Vijaydurg Port,” a port official explained.
 
 This proposed port-based refinery is expected to import its crude oil through the Vijaydurg port and then transport it for domestic consumption. The 60 MTPA refinery is expected to turn operational by 2021 and MPT is keen to also start port operations by then.
 
 Officials from MPT and the Union ministry of shipping expect that the port will also attract largely feeder vessels transporting containers to JNPT. Officials say that the proposed port could lead to a shift from containers being transported by sea instead of by road.
 
 “Major container traffic at Vijaydurg could be marine exports, pharmaceuticals, agro products, and manufacturing goods,” a source said. “The container traffic for Vijaydurg port is expected to hit 26,208 TEU’s by 2022.” 
 
 As per norms, MPT needs to obtain environmental clearances before construction activity can begin. MPT is scouting for a consultant to prepare the Environment Impact Assessment report and Environmental Management Plan, which will help the port procure its Coastal Regulatory Zone and Environmental Clearances. 
 
 
