Panaji: The Goa cabinet on Wednesday approved an estimated cost of Rs 125 crore for the construction of a new district and subordinate   complex at Merces. It also granted a probable increase of up to Rs 200 crore in project costs to cover aspects such as furniture requirements, interior design and landscaping. 

 Addressing reporters after a cabinet briefing, chief minister Manohar Parrikar said the project’s proponent, Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC), had not obtained permission from the expenditure and finance committee (EFC) before starting the project. EFC approval is mandatory for all ventures costing over Rs 15 crore. 
 
 Parrikar said although the project was taken up on orders of the court, the absence of an EFC clearance meant that payments could not be made to the contractor, causing work to come to a standstill. “A licence from the local panchayat has been obtained and environment impact assessment is under way. Work should begin in the next two-three months,” he said. 
 
 One other administrative irregularity, the chief minister said, was that the GSIDC had not placed the project before its board. The council of ministers also observed that the estimated cost of completing the project was likely to touch Rs 200 crore. This, added to the cost of annual maintenance and of other utilities and services, was projecting expenditures much higher than those incurred by other court complexes in the state, the cabinet observed.
 
 It is therefore likely that the complex’s design will be reviewed, both in terms of the area to be constructed upon as well as specifications, in consultation with the high court of Bombay at Goa in an attempt to reduce the costs of construction and the subsequent expenditure on maintenance and provisions of utilities and services.
 
 The cabinet, however, clarified that these observations should not, in any way, be construed as dilution of the government’s commitment to provide judicial infrastructure of the best quality in Goa. 
 
 “However, in the absence of prior approval from the expenditure and finance committee, where these concerns are actually taken care of, the post facto approval now being given by the cabinet should be utilized, wherever practicably feasible, to reduce the cost of the project,” the council of ministers observed.
 
 
