PUNE: The   will roll out   midi buses on some routes next month even as it gets ready to conduct a   to identify stretches with more number of potential women and student passengers.

 “For women-only buses, the details about their number, routes and timings will be finalized by month-end,” a senior PMPML official said, adding that the transport utility will get the possession of 100 midi buses by March. “Some of them will be utilized for the women-only   which will be rolled out on the International Women’s Day that is celebrated on March 8,” he said.
 
 Some of the working women TOI contacted, however, said the transport utility will have to look into the safety as well as reliability aspects before launching the service. “Will it be safe for me? Will I be able to reach my office on time? These are the two questions that come to my mind while using PMPML buses. The authorities will have to address these issues, then only women like me will use it,”  , a working professional, said.
 
 As far as the survey is concerned, the   (PMPML) will carry it out next month. “The objective of the survey is to get more number of women and students to use public transport. Many people in this segment have two-wheelers and the idea here is to try and convince them to use our buses by way of better and uninterrupted services,” the official said.
 
 Once the survey is over, more buses for women and students will be allotted on the identified routes. “The PMPML will ensure that the buses are safe, clean and run on time to attract more women and students to use them for daily commute,” the official said.
 
 He said though the focus of the PMPML has been on the right track since 10 months, a direct approach towards improving passenger amenities was needed. “A lot has happened in the recent past, but a lot more needs to be done. Having online services in the form of cellphone application is a good move, but it has to reach out to larger number of people, for which steps need to be taken,” the official said.
 
 
