NAVI MUMBAI: Three men, including a  , were convicted in the 2010 murder of engineer Dipan Banerjee. They were sentenced to life term and fined Rs 10,000 each by the Thane district court on Tuesday.

 Dipan’s dabbawala, Vinod Bandal, who used to provide packed food to the L&T engineer, had convinced his associates,   and Santosh Raut, to rob the bachelor. They ended up killing him.
 
 As judge H M Patwardhan announced the verdict in a packed courtroom, the three convicts showed little emotion, but Dipan’s elder sister Somali began to sob silently. She later told TOI: “We are relieved that justice has been done. For the past seven-and-a-half years, I have been regularly coming down to Mumbai from Kolkata to attend the murder trial while my aged parents have continuously wondered when the killers would be punished. My brother Dipan was only 23 in August 2010 when he was brutally stabbed 17 times by the convicts in his Airoli flat with the intention of robbing him.”
 
 
  
  
 
 Ironically, the convicted men found just Rs 250 in cash from the flat, besides his camera, a laptop, credit and debit cards, and a mobile charger.
 
 The three were convicted under Indian Penal Code sections 302 for murder, 394 for voluntarily causing hurt while committing a robbery, 397 for robbery or dacoity with an attempt to cause death or grievous hurt, 411 for dishonestly receiving stolen property, 419 for cheating by personation, 452 for house trespass and 34 for common intention.
 
 Local Rabale cops, under Navi Mumbai police department, arrested the three within four days of the crime and recovered the robbed articles from them. Special public prosecutor Sangeeta Phad told TOI: “This was a rather challenging  , as of the 41 witnesses, half a dozen turned hostile during the trial. However, Navi Mumbai police had secured two sets of fingerprints of the killers from a cupboard in Dipan’s flat and recovered all the looted articles. Two other accused who had kept these robbed goods were let off due to lack of evidence and as they had no direct involvement in the crime.”
 
 Ramesh Ghadavale, retired assistant commissioner of police who was the investigating officer (IO) in the case, said, “We knew that since there were no eyewitnesses, the other witnesses were likely to turn hostile. We methodically began to collect all incriminating clues from the scene of the crime. We spoke to many locals and others who knew Dipan and began to zero down on the dabbawala (Bandal). We are happy that after the passage of so much time, the Banerjee family has finally got justice.”
 
 Recalling the initial days since the murder of her younger brother, Somali, who works as a nutritionist- cum-dietician in Kolkata, said, “I just sat at Rabale police station for two days at a stretch. The cops did not want to show me the gruesome photos of my brother’s body, but ACP Ghadavale had assured me that he would catch those who did this to Dipan. I am thankful to him and others who supported me to get justice.” 
 
 “I had spoken to Dipan on his mobile phone barely half an hour before his murder. Afterwards, when there was no response when I tried his number, I asked the house broker, Nanak Keswani, to go and check at the flat. That’s how we learnt of what had happened,”' she said and added that Dipan was a bright electrical engineering student who had secured third rank in his Kolkata college. He immediately landed a job in Larsen & Toubro and moved to Navi Mumbai to begin working in the city.
 
 
