CHENNAI: The politics over the  , which has been building up momentum over the past few weeks, played out in full on Thursday when the opposition-sponsored bandh evoked mixed reactions across  .

 Even though the ruling   plied its buses and kept open Tasmac liquor outlets and Amma Canteens, the private establishments, especially the traders – shops & eateries – remained closed.
 
 Claiming the bandh was a 100% success and a big victory for the opposition parties in the state where he said 10 lakh people courted arrest, DMK working president M K   wanted the Centre to take notice of the day’s developments and constitute the Cauvery Management Board immediately. The police said only 85,000 protesters were arrested.
 
 To keep the momentum going, Stalin outlined the next stage of the Cauvery protest in the form of a march from Mukkombu in Trichy district to Cuddalore to highlight the rights of Tamil Nadu over the Cauvery river water. “We will decide on who will lead the march and at what junctures at an all-party meeting of the opposition on Friday,” said Stalin.
 
 As if not wanting the opposition to hog all the limelight, the AIADMK hit out at Stalin for using the Cauvery issue for political gains. “Unlike others, the AIADMK has gone by the law to pressurise Centre to set up the Cauvery Management Board,” deputy CM O Panneerselvam said.
 
 “Having failed in his attempt to create ruckus in the assembly to get this government dismissed, Stalin has now taken up the Cauvery issue to create a law & order problem,” fisheries minister   said. He also accused Stalin of taking people back to the ‘stone age’ by getting DMK cadres to throw stones at buses and block roads, preventing the movement of even ambulance.
 
 The drama started early on Thursday with opposition party workers assembling near the Anna statue on   where Stalin, accompanied by TNCC president S Thirunavukkarasar, DK general secretary K Veeramani and VCK leader Thol Thirumavalavan, soon arrived and sat in protest.
 
 ‘Centre must recall affidavit on clarification filed in SC’
 
 When the police started arresting the leaders, they got up and started walking, armed with black flags, towards the Anna Memorial on the Marina, with the cadres in large numbers following them on the impromptu march. Taken by surprise, the police barricaded the entry to the beach road. By the time the leaders marched closer to the Marina, the police had taken charge of the place and this resulted in a slugfest. The leaders once again squatted on the road, forcing the police to take them in custody and lodge them in a marriage hall in Purasaiwalkam.
 
 “This is 100% victory for us. The Centre must recall the affidavit seeking a clarification filed in the Supreme Court. If it fails, the state government must pressure the Centre to recall the clarification, which is to be taken up on April 9,” Stalin said.
 
 Expressing the need for all parties, including the AIADMK, to jointly fight for the state’s cause, Stalin doubted the possibility of that happening as long as the AIADMK remained submissive to the BJP. “All state parties can come together and fight. But that can be possible only if the AIADMK comes out and questions the BJP,” he said. “We have stalled the Parliament with our protests for 21days to force the Centre to get the Cauvery Management Board formed. We will continue to do so until we succeed in our mission. Asking the MPs to resign will not help in finding a solution,” said AIADMK MP and LS deputy speaker M Thambidurai.
 
