YAVATMAL: Demanding restoration of elections in colleges and more employment opportunities for the youth, a group of sloganeering   activists blocked the cavalcade of state education minister Vinod Tawde and gheraoed him on Saturday. The activists forced Tawde to come out of the vehicle and listen to their grievances.

 The incident took place when the education minister was heading towards the residence of the   district unit chief Rajendra Dange where he was scheduled to address BJP workers at 3 pm. The ABVP activists were waiting with placards and banners to protest against the injustice meted out to them by their own party leaders. As soon as the police vehicle escorting Tawde’s vehicle passed by them, the ABVP activists intercepted the minister’s vehicle and blocked the road. As the activists refused to budge, the minister was forced to alight from the vehicle to discuss the issue with the protesters. The activists demanded restoration of elections in colleges, reduction in the pay of the teachers and advancing their retirement age so that more unemployed youth can get job opportunities.
 
 The protesters also shouted slogans against the minister for his ‘good for nothing’ educational reforms. Tawde somehow managed to pacify the ABVP activists and reached the venue to address the party workers.
 
 At the meeting venue, Tawde faced angrier protests by the BJP workers from all over the district who alleged that despite being ruling partner in several municipal councils and zilla parishad, they were being deprived of the opportunity to serve the people due to bureaucratic hurdles.
 
 ZP vice-president Shyam Jaiswal complained that the teachers found excess in zilla parishad schools were not transferred to municipal council schools despite vacancies there. The minister summoned the education officer Dr   to the venue and asked why she had not allowed the excess teachers to be transferred to municipal council schools. The officer expressed inability to do so and blamed the rigid ‘sanch mannyata’ (approval of divisions) being implemented in the schools.
 
 One of the taluka secretaries from Arni, Bipin Rathod, narrated his brother’s case saying the school management has not paid salary to him for the last 6-8 months on the ground that the post on which he has been appointed is yet to be regularized. Rathod alleged that the management is demanding Rs1.5 lakh for regular appointment to his brother. On this, the minister suggested that hundreds of party workers should go to the school and teach the management a befitting lesson. Even as Tawde said this, Yavatmal MC construction committee chairman Mohan Deshmukh stood up to say that he did the same in Yavatmal and in return he was booked by the police on a complaint of chief officer Dnyaneshwar Dhere.
 
 Tawde then advised party workers to file RTI applications to expose such “erring” officials. On this, a retired college professor’s kin waived a copy of the RTI application filed on March 9, 2017 before the joint director’s office in Amravati demanding ‘action taken report’ on the recommendation letter issued by Tawde himself on March 3, 2016. The kin said that he has not received any information from the joint director till date.
 
 The party workers also said that three years have passed without any positive steps being taken by the present government with regard to the appointments on various boards and corporations. They said the earlier government was better than the present one under chief minister  .
 
 Unable to face the party workers’ wrath, the minister had to wind up his speech and leave the venue.
 
 Sitting MLA of Arni Raju Todsam, former ministers Rajabhau Thakre and Sanjay Deshmukh, former ZP president  , vice-president of YDCC Bank Dadasaheb Gade-Patil, former district president Uddhav Yerme, women’s wing chairperson Vidya Kotekar were present at the meeting.
 
 
