NEW DELHI:   companies in the country are looking beyond kirana stores to boost sales. Many are turning to business-to-business (B2B) wholesale giants, such as   Cash & Carry and  , to tap into the hotels, restaurants and catering (HoReCa) segment, which outnumbers mom-and-pop stores in India.

 While there are around 1.2 crore kirana stores across country, the HoReCa segment accounts for about 1.3 crore organisations, according to data provided by German wholesale retailer Metro Cash & Carry.
 
 “Barring a few exceptions, most companies do not have a go-to-market strategy for HoReCa,” said Arvind Mediratta, MD & CEO of Metro Cash & Carry India. “We have a natural edge in this segment and these brands ride on our bandwagon to tap this.”
 
 Quoting data from Nielsen, retailers said only 31 (0.2%) out of 15,000 FMCG launches succeed every year, while the rest fail due to lack of an all-pervasive distribution strategy. Even the top FMCG companies in India manage to reach only 30-40% kirana stores with the penetration rate of their top brands stagnating at 50%.
 
 “We have helped small Ho-ReCa members such as dhabas to grow their assortment range. HoReCa is an extremely important segment for us,” said  , senior VP and head of corporate affairs at Walmart India. “The segment has strict requirements such as timely delivery and consistent quality. With the growth of nuclear families, more people are eating out and demanding safe food, as a result of which, the segment is growing fast.”
 
 Seeing the opportunity in the relatively underserved segment, consumer goods giants, including HUL and Mars, are turning to cash & carry channels. Other than HoReCa, companies such as Walmart and Metro also cater to the services and companies (SCO) segment that accounts for around 2.5 crore entities.
 
 “In India, we have around three times the distribution reach of Mars, the American confectionery and pet food company,” said Metro’s Mediratta. “Many pharmacies come and buy from Metro that are not covered by their distribution channel. We analysed that these pharmacies are not buying the big packs of pet food, but the smaller ones.”
 
 Metro worked with Mars to create a special Rs 20 pack for the pharmacy channel, after which, Mediratta said the company’s distribution reach increased by 25-30%. The retailer is currently working with HUL for its food business, including Knorr and professional range, Mediratta added.
 
