MUMBAI: In a stern diktat, the state government has reminded all its 7.5 lakh employees to use Marathi for all official communication, and warned of penalty in case of non-compliance. Marathi is the official language of the state. 

  A   vigilance officer will be appointed in every department, and anybody found violating the Marathi-first diktat faces the prospect of forfeiting promotion or salary hike for a year. The government, in the GR issued on Monday evening, has directed that its employees must speak in Marathi while giving information about any government scheme or when talking on the phone. 
 
 Senior officers have been reminded that they must use Marathi while addressing people, speaking in government meetings or making presentations in cabinet meetings or other high-level meetings, said an official. All file notings, remarks, annexures or even replies to letters that come from the common public should all be written in Marathi.
 
  
  
 
 The GR also mentions that any government receipt, like that for traffic violation, tourism charges like parking or fort entry should be in Marathi. All departments must ensure the names of government schemes they initiate are in Marathi.
 
 The stern tone has taken many officials by surprise. Officials pointed out that   already largely uses Marathi as it official language; only some internal presentations or meeting discussions happen in English. The government already has a Marathi language department, headed my cabinet minister Vinod Tawde. 
 
 Also, since the Shiv Sena is the junior partner in the government and it is very strict with its Marathi-first approach, officials are always on their toes. For instance, transport minister Diwakar Raote from the party insists his staff speak in Marathi and use as much as textbook Marathi in circulars as possible.
 
 Some officials explained that the move came after the use of Marathi was slackening. "The state government has time and again sought to ensure that Marathi is used, but of late, it was noticed that employees were not using Marathi in even official communications. That prompted the fresh GR," said an official.
 
 Some senior officials pointed out that official correspondence with other states was happening in English to allow for ease of communication. They said a Marathi-only rule could be counter-productive when dealing with other states and the Centre. It could lead to inordinate delays in handling of files and/or the information they contain could be garbled in translation.
 
 In fact, one official who did not want to be identified said at times, schemes meant for the public do not reach them because of the difficulty in understanding the language. "There are many technical terms which, if translated in Marathi, the common people do not understand," said an official. Highly technical subjects are also better tackled in English because often Marathi doesn't have the necessary terms.
 
 The resolution has said Marathi should be used for all court documents except where it's not possible. It has mandated that nameplates of officials outside their offices should be in Marathi, and invites sent out for government events must be in the official language. It says that the name of a place should be in correct Marathi; for example, if a function is in Sion, rather than saying Sion in Devnagri script, the invite must read Shiv in Marathi. Government tenders should be publicised in at least two Marathi newspapers.
 
 
 
 
