PACHPADRA(Barmer): A day after Prime Minister   kicked off the commencement of work for the 9-million tonne   refinery at  , TOI team visited the site on Wednesday to find out if the work has started or not. 

 Union oil and gas minister  , one of the key architects of the project, on Tuesday had emphatically assured that construction will begin from Wednesday. 
 
 But what the TOI team witnessed is that close to a hundred people busy in dismantling the huge pandal that was erected for 3 lakh people. Iron pillars, chairs, dust covered carpets, torn posters and broken wooden frames lying all around. One could see half a dozen cranes busy in loading the bunk houses put up for official meetings and hospitality services. But there were no workers where the boundary work was being carried out.
 
 "Non-availability of bajri due to the   ban is a big constraint which is why the work has stopped for over a month. Barmer collector has been requested to make some special arrangements so that the contractors can resume boundary construction," said a source.
 
 Constructing the 33-km boundary wall is part of the pre-project activity for which contracts have been awarded.
 
 Before the bajri ban came in, a stretch of 2 km have been excavated out of which foundation has been laid over 1 km.
 
 "Within a month, one can see a 10 ft wall moving around the boundary," said the source.
 
 HPCL would be investing Rs 500 crore initially for the pre-project activities. Before the work stopped because of unavailability of bajri, around 300 workers were engaged. But the source said as there is plan to expedite the construction, the number of workers could go up to 600-700 in coming months.
 
 Apart from the boundary wall, laying of a 16 km road with 19 meter width will also be undertaken soon inside the refinery area to move machines and materials for various construction activities for the refinery. 
 
 "There is an urgency now. As the work picks up pace while expanding the construction activities into more areas, there will be more people on the site. We expect about 350 engineers to be be working on different facilities inside the refinery," said the source.
 
 The progress of the construction is being keenly watched by the locals who are still sceptical about the project.
 
 "Modi ji is also a politician like others. But he delivers what he promises unlike other leaders. That's why there is some hope the refinery will come up here," said  , a local resident.
 
 
