GURUGRAM: Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam ( ) has finally started work on removing gantry towers carrying high-tension transmission lines, which have been posing hurdles to  .

 HVPN officials said two gantry towers, which were located on the Dwarka-bound carriageway near Harsaru village, had been removed on Tuesday, a couple days after TOI reported about a series of bottlenecks, including transmission lines, that delayed the expressway by around a decade.
 
 However, many more high-tension towers are still blocking the expressway. The towers are located at five different places between Kherki Daula and Dwarka — near Delhi-Gurugram border, in Sector 102-102A, near Basai railway over-bridge (RoB), Kherki Daula junction towards Dwarka.
 
 The officials further said the two towers were carrying a 17-m-long 220kV power line stretched from Daultabad to IMT-Manesar, which had now been shifted underground.
 
 “The towers were virtually blocking the expressway. We have removed the towers and laid an underground 220 kV line. Normally, a 220 kV line should flow overhead, and can run underground only when it is near or inside the premises of a substation. This was one of our ambitious projects and it cost us around Rs 10 crore,” said Anil Yadav, superintendent engineer, HVPN.
 
 Officials said the two towers were part of a trijunction of three power lines — two HVPN lines of 220 kV and 400 kV, and one BBMB (Bhakra Beas Management Board) line of 220 kV. 
 
 “We were initially asked to raise the height of these towers, but technically, a 220 kV line cannot be placed higher than a 400 kV line. So we decided to shift the lines underground,” Yadav explained.
 
 According to Yadav, the other towers, which are still coming in right of way of the expressway, would be removed soon. “There is a 400kV HVPN line and another 400kV HVPN-DHL line that are blocking the proposed cloverleaf junction near Kherki Daula. These are very high-voltage lines and have an extensive sphere of electric field. So, the height of the lines has to be essentially raised. We have also issued a notice to NHAI, asking it to carry out all necessary changes in the height of the power lines. It will get it done through a consultancy, but the process will be monitored by us,” Yadav said. 
 
 Earlier, Huda had claimed that all high-tension towers of 220 kV would be shifted by mid-February while the towers with 66 kV lines would be shifted by mid-March. Though it missed the deadline, Huda lately swung into action to remove all the hurdles, including buildings, along the expressway. If sources are to be believed, Huda has already given allotment letters to 148 of the 223 eligible oustees and removed most of those houses. 
 
 However, around 75 houses of GPA and SPA holders are still coming in right of way of Dwarka Expressway. A case related to the GPA and SPA holders is still pending in the Punjab and Haryana high court which is expected to hearing the matter again on April 26.
 
 
