BEIJING: The Chinese government announced plans on Friday to retaliate against the   administration’s decision to impose tariffs on up to $60 billion worth of Chinese imports, saying it planned to levy duties on $3 billion worth of US exports. The threat of Chinese retaliation raised fears of a US-China trade war.

 
 Beijing targeted politicially sensitive items of US export, like pork, wine and apples, for imposing punishing tariffs. Its ministry of commerce said it planned to impose a 15% duty on 120 types of US products, like fruits, nuts, wine and seamless tubes, worth $977 million, and a 25% levy on other products, including pork and recycled aluminum.
 
 The Chinese picked US farm exports because they would affect the largest number of people and make Trump unpopular ahead of a midterm election. But in value terms the items listed by Beijing amount to a mere $3 billion in US exports, a tiny fraction of the $60 billion in Chinese goods being targeted by  .
 
 The US will pay for its “arbitrary and reckless behaviour”, the Chinese foreign ministry said. “Some people” from the US are “too arrogant and have misjudged the situation”, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said on Friday. “Do not underestimate China’s determination and capacity to safeguard its legitimate interests, and the price that the US will have to pay for its arbitrary and reckless behaviour,” she said.
 
 But China, trying to avoid a headon collision with the US because it has a lot to lose in a trade war, also asked the US to work towards settling the dispute rather than escalating it. Beijing is talking tough to salvage its political prestige but still hoping for a solution, analysts said.
 
 Beijing said in a statement that “the US disregards the fact that China is increasing protection on intellectual property, the rules of  , and voices from industry”. It said a trade war would be bad for both countries and the rest of the world. “It creates a very bad precedent,” Beijing said, adding, “China hopes the   will pull back from the brink, make prudent decisions, and avoid dragging bilateral trade relations to a dangerous place.”
 
