› Seven-month pregnant   had to wait for six hours to get her   enrolment done at the   ward office. When she requested for the enrolment of her three-year-old son as well, she was told to come some other day › A man who visited a centre with six members of his family was categorically told that onlyone person perfamily can be enrolled on a single day › M   (70) was made to wait for about five hours as “there was sometechnical problem” at the e-seva   he had visited

 These are justsome of the instances reflecting the callous attitude of the agencies involved in Aadhaar enrolment process in the city, calling for a humane and sympathetic approach.
 
 “The operators very well knew about my condition. Still they asked me to wait. Thankfully my mother was with me and we took turns to wait in the queue. After my enrolment was over, I requested for the enrolment of my son, but to my surprise, I was told to come some other day,” Fernandes said while recalling her ordeal at the Wanowrie ward office.
 
  
  
 
 The rule of enrolling just one person per family on a given day has citizens fuming. “This is simply bizarre,” said the man who visited a centre with six of his family members for Aadhaar enrolment.
 
 “They (operators) are too high handed. This is not the way to treat people,” he said, adding, “I have a full-time job and cannot go to the centres on weekdays. It is only on Saturday that I can go with my kids and other relatives for the enrolment. And if they will continue with this rule of enrolling just one person per family on a given day, it will take me ages to get all my family members enrolled.”
 
 Monica Bhugam, another citizen seeking Aadhaar enrolment, said even as the administration is providing these services from ward offices, only handful of people are able to benefit from it. “We expected the services to improve, but the situation is still the same as it was in the beginning,” Bhugam said, adding that she had to wait for five hours for theexercise.
 
 Septuagenarian M Garg said, “Either the (Aadhaar) machines are not working properly or there is less staff. They have some or the other problem all the time.”
 
 When contacted, district nodal officer for Aadhaar Vikas Bhalerao said 209 machines were operational in the district and about 50 more machines were expected to be operational in the coming week. “We have been able to start operations of enrolment at all the ward offices in the municipal corporation areas, but this will slowly scale up with more machines at the government offices too,” he said.
 
 Anil Mule, deputy commissioner and coordinator of Aadhaar in the   area, told TOI that nobody can be stopped from enrolment. “Anybody who comes for enrolment has to be given a token number and there is no rule about only one family member being enrolled on a given day. We willspeak tothe service providers about it,” he said.
 
 The less number of machines and chaos caused Nitin Trivedi an entire day to get his enrolment done at the Collectorate. His sister,  , said her brother faced a tough time to get the enrolment done. “Unless there are more machines, the situation will continue to be the same,” she added.
 
