NEW DELHI: A 55-year-old property dealer and his 50-year-old wife were found dead under mysterious circumstances at their flat in southeast Delhi’s Zakir Nagar on Saturday morning. The bodies bore no injury marks.

 
 DCP (southeast) Chinmoy Biswal said the bodies of the victims, Shamim Ahmed and his wife Taslim Bano, have been sent for postmortem and an inquest under Section 174 of CrPC has been initiated. The bodies were discovered early on Saturday, by the couple’s 27-year-old son Abdul Wahid. 
 
 Wahid had gone out for dinner on Friday and returned late. However, no one opened the main door — the iron gate was open but the wooden one was locked from inside — even after repeated knockings. He tried calling his father but got no response. He then went on a ride on his motorbike, which was kept outside the gate. He came back after some time, but still no one opened the door. Wahid said that thinking that his parents were in deep sleep, he slept at a nearby shop. 
 
 At dawn Wahid again returned but even then when no one opened the door he called his uncle. Both of them broke open the door and found the bodies in the drawing room with their faces covered. Officers said that when the bodies were lifted blood oozed out from Ahmed’s nose. However, no injury mark was found on the bodies. Police suspect that the couple had consumed poison, though no suicide note was recovered from the spot.
 
 Wahid, who was later detained for questioning, accused his wife of abetting his parents’ suicide. He said that his second wife, who left him four years back, was living with her parents in Kanpur. She had alleged that Ahmed had raped her and was harassing her for dowry. She had filed a complaint in this regard and was fighting a legal battle with them. Wahid’s first wife had left him a few months after his marriage. 
 
 The deceased couple also had two daughters, both of whom are married. Investigating officers said that Ahmed was suffering from depression for some time and was on medication. They also said that Wahid was a drug addict and jobless at present. An old monetary dispute is also being probed as Ahmed allegedly gave around Rs 7 lakh to someone but did not get back the money. 
 
 
