A man who had worn many hats — farmer, journalist and politician —  , 78, has so far had an uneasy tenure as the   of  . He assumed charge on October 6, 2017 when the state was in political turmoil, and soon found himself in the vortex of controversies. Purohit, who had served as the managing editor of Nagpur-based newspaper Hitavada and the governor of Assam, speaks to TOI about the Madurai Kamaraj University scandal, his plans for TN’s   sector and why a governor is more than a nominal head of the state.

 
 
 I was amused. I don’t have just sons and daughters, but great grandsons and granddaughters. On Tuesday (April 17) morning I read about it in the newspapers. I said to myself that I must deny it and clarify it. If I remained silent it would have meant that I accepted it. So I called for a press meet. This is not the way a civilised society behaves.
 
 I have completed 78 years. Nobody can raise an accusing finger at my character. My journalist friends in Maharashtra could not digest this allegation. They call me ‘babuji’, which denotes a father figure.
 
 
 
 There was a suggestion from MKU about constituting a five-member panel for which the VC needed my approval. As the charges were against the higher-ups of the university and the members were also from the university, I said there has to be someone from outside, that too a senior man in the rank of retired chief secretary or retired HC judge, who is above all pressure. R Santhanam was selected. He is a competent officer.
 
 
 
 As chancellor of so many universities (20) the responsibility is big. My way of working is different. I am sure that if the best man is selected and given total freedom, things will improve hundred percent. We will improve the system and allow him to work without any interference.
 
 
 
 Yes, I am in touch with the chief minister and it is my duty to select the best VC. There is a system and I have not disturbed it. When I assumed charge as the governor, I informed the press that I will always be guided by the Constitution of India. I am a senior politician. I have friends in the cabinet who will help me in the development of Tamil Nadu.
 
 
 
 It is my duty to stop the corruption in higher education, come what may.
 
 
 
 The governor is the executive head of the state. Am I not supposed to meet my officers? Should I not know anything about the state and visit the districts? When I tour the state, I get comprehensive feedback. I should not interfere in the working of the government. But gathering information from an officer is not interference. I tell officials during my visits that I have not come here to find fault or punish them. That is not the governor’s job.
 
 
 
 I feel there is some effect.
 
 
 
 I tell students and officers (quoting Martin Luther King), "The day we see the truth and cease to speak is the day we begin to die". If I see something going wrong, how can I remain silent? I am doing my duty with affection, dedication and devotion. Anybody can ask me anything, including the CM, ministers … if they have any difficulty or need any clarification. I have never refused appointments to anybody.
 
 
 
 During my visits to districts, around 250 people meet us with petitions. They come with their problems. I try to help them. There are three types of problems — if they pertain to districts, I hand over the petitions to the district collector and SP; certain problems are dealt with by the secretariat. As for issues concerning the Centre, I deal with it personally. Every day I receive at least 150 petitions by post.
 
 The problems relate to pattas, pensions, requests for bank loans, roads, sanitation and drinking water. Swachh Bharat is dear to me and I motivate others. Collectors send their status report; if they delay, our officers talk to them.
 
 
 
 We were busy for a fortnight. In May we will be touring three to four districts. We have covered half the state.
 
 
 
 He issued a statement criticising me on the appointment of law university VC Tamma Suryanaryana Sastry. I told him to come so I could show him the search panel list. He was convinced. Later the Anna University issue came up.
 
 
 
 I told Stalin about the prosecution of VCs of a few universities, and not about government’s working. He misunderstood me. There was a communication gap.
 
 
 
 I am doing my job. I am getting so many petitions with allegations and feedback from hundreds of people. We are sending them to the government for action.
 
 
 
 We will finalise VCs for Alagappa and Annamalai universities in two months. Search committees are working on it. As the system is already there, I need not consult anybody. I need to appoint the best and honest. If I complete my term I will change the higher education scenario and you will find it is totally transparent.
 
 
 
 A monthly report is being sent to the President and copies of it to the Prime Minister, the vice-president and the home minister. When I meet the PM, I tell him about my work in Tamil Nadu. He is aware of everything.
 
 
 
 Let me complete one year, I will tell you then. I find it satisfactory. They are trying their best to improve. There are very good schemes which are not there in other states. All families are getting free rice, Amma canteens are very successful. The government is sincerely following it.
 
 
 
 They are vague and not with any proof.
 
 There is a perception that the political instability here may be affecting the investment climate.
 
 How do you say the government is not stable? Everything is going on smoothly including the assembly session.
 
 
 
 I told them if they have problems I will take it up with the CM. The single window clearance is a good move. My information is that some well-known industries that participated in the defence expo are ready to invest here.
 
 
 
 I have spoken to water resources minister Nitin Gadkari on the constitution of the Cauvery Management Board. He said it is under process. It is a long process. His secretaries are working on it. 
 
 Email your feedback to southpole.toi@timesgroup.com
 
 
