BHOPAL: Two districts of   are at loggerheads over Chambal river water sharing.

 Just ten days after the chief minister issued directives for a survey of Chambal water canal meant for the drought-hit villages of  , the   MLA has threatened to start an agitation against the move. “We will oppose the construction of canal to protect the rights of the farmers of Bhind, situated at the tail end of the canal system,” said   MLA Narendra Singh Kushwah.
 
 Talking to TOI, Kushwah said that he is not against the farmers of Sheopur, instead he is only supporting Bhind farmers. “With water in Chambal river already scarce this year, farmers in Bhind are extremely concerned about the drought situation. After scanty rainfall, the district has been declared drought-hit. I will take the canal issue to the chief minister,” he said.
 
 After scanty rainfall last year, both — Bhind and Sheopur — are facing acute water shortage.
 
 Last month, residents of 35 villages in Sheopur district had threatened to boycott the 2018 assembly elections and had launched a ‘No Canal-No Vote’ agitation. They even painted the walls in the villages with the same slogan.
 
 “More than 20,000 hectares of land are lying barren because there is no water. If the canal water doesn't reach the villages, many farmers may commit suicide. The farmers are demanding construction of a minor canal from the Maharana Pratap Sagar dam canal network in Chambal,” said farmer Yaduraj Singh. Singh is also the district president of BJP legal cell and is spearheading the movement.
 
  president Omprakash Meena said, “Everyone has equal right on the river water. We have been facing water crisis for long.”
 
 After the agitation, the chief minister had assured the farmers that he will resolve the matter and issued directives on the water canal.Singh, Meena and other farmers said that they are ready to fight for their rights. BJP MLA from Sheopur Durgalal Vijay said, “The rights of Sheopur farmers will be protected. We will ensure it peacefully”.
 
 
