Ludhiana: Non-payment of fees on the part of parents of students affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has led to delay in the publication of their results. The schools have not only withheld the results, but they have also warned parents to face action over the non-payment of fees.

 It’s a tough time for parents and students are worried as the new session has begun but their ward hasn’t been promoted to the next class due to unpaid fees. Mandeep Singh, a parent of a student from BCM Basant City School, said, “My son hasn’t been promoted to the next academic session even after I have paid the tuition fee for the new academic session. The school is asking for the full payment of annual fee, admission fee, academic fee, and activities charges. The school has declared the results of those students whose fees were fully paid and have also begun their academic session but the results of students whose fee have not been paid fully are withheld by the school. The school authorities have denied their promotion to next academic session until the dues are cleared. The worst part is that they have mentioned in the report card as well.”
 
 Gurkirat Kaur, whose daughter studies in Guru Nanak Public School said, “It’s been so many days since the new academic session has begun. My daughter hasn’t been promoted. It is so rude on the part of the school. We are not running away. Education is a right of every child. The school administration cannot make a student feel so embarrassed in front of everyone by not promoting. They could have taken the step of withholding the results if we dint pay fee after the student is passed out. My daughter is there in school for next few years. This step taken by the school authorities is really wrong. The financial condition of a family is not always the same.”
 
 While the parents at one point are protesting against the action taken by the school authorities, Mona, Principal, Guru Nanak Public School said, “I think the decision taken by the school authorities is quite justified as the dues have been pending since the last 2-3 years. We have been continuously asking parents to clear the dues. If the parents can’t pay the fees, they can’t make their ward study in some other school. I am quite confident that even the government schools are good. The parents are protesting, but I wonder why they can’t make their ward study there. I would suggest parents who can’t pay the fees to take TC and leave the school. I am ready to waive off their dues and also give their results along with TC.” 
 
 Speaking on the future of the students, Mona added, “If we wanted to spoil the future of the student, we wouldn’t have allowed them to sit for the examination. We let them write the exam. So, their future too isn’t spoiled.”
 
 
