MUMBAI: What was meant to be a relaxing evening turned into a nightmare for Somen Shah, head, marketing excellence, of M/s Abbott Health Care. Shah, who was hosting the annual office party for his colleagues, was booked for a non-bailable offence and arrested by the state excise department for not obtaining a temporary   to serve   for the party held on January 10 at   Renaissance, Powai.

 He was released on bail the next day. The hotel administrator, Kailash Bhaurao Pandit, was also arrested. He too secured bail the next day.
 
 The MNC executive’s arrest has caused consternation in Mantralaya and the chief minister’s office has ordered an inquiry into the incident.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The hotel’s consultant licensing officer Shivkumar Surajdin Verma managed to evade arrest and on January 18 obtained anticipatory bail from the Bandra metropolitan magistrate’s court.
 
 Shah and Pandit were booked under Sections 65 (d), 81 and 83 of the Maharashtra Liquor Prohibition Act, 1949. The law allows arrest of the person who committed the crime by not obtaining the licence to serve liquor and also the person who abetted the crime. 
 
 The MNC executive’s arrest has caused consternation in Mantralaya and the Chief Minister’s Office has ordered an inquiry into the incident. “At a time when Maharashtra is hosting the Magnetic Maharashtra event and laying out the red carpet for foreign investors, the arrest of an executive of a multinational company for serving liquor without possessing licence sends out a very bad signal,” said Mantralaya sources.
 
 According to a press release issued by the state excise department, the raid was conducted as part of a special drive launched by excise commissioner Ashwini Joshi to prevent revenue loss to the government.
 
 The office party was held at a banquet hall in the hotel. Senior excise officials said it is common knowledge that the hotel’s licence to serve liquor is only for a certain area within the hotel premises. “Since the banquet hall and conference rooms in hotels are public places, it is mandatory to obtain a one-day temporary licence. The cost of a one-day temporary licence is Rs20,000 for a commercial event and Rs10,000 if it is an informal gathering,” said Santosh Zagade, the department’s district in-charge.
 
 A spokesperson for Abbott Healthcare said, “It was our understanding that the hotel was responsible for securing the permissions for the event. We made the payment necessary for the permits in December.”
 
 S T Malave, excise inspector, who led the raid, said at the time of inspection there was no licence to serve liquor though it was being served at the event. Liquor worth Rs1.44 lakh was seized from the hall. The raid, which started around 9.30pm, lasted three hours. Excise officials said when the raid was being conducted, neither the hotel nor the party host could produce a copy of the licence. “The host also could not produce any evidence of having paid the hotel the requisite fee amount to procure the licence. It is now being investigated if they had indeed paid for it,” said officials on condition of anonymity. If found guilty, the punishment under the Act is imprisonment for a maximum of three years.
 
 A spokesperson for Hotel Renaissance, which is owned by M/s Chalet Hotel Pvt Ltd, said, “No alcohol was served on the evening of the concerned date. We are completely cognizant of the laws of the land and as an international organization of repute we understand and abide by them. We shall continue to extend our full cooperation to the local authorities.”
 
