KOCHI: The   on Thursday upheld central government’s decision to allow CBI to invoke provisions of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in   case in which CPM Kannur district secretary   is accused to be the mastermind.

  declined to agree with the contention of Jayarajan, other 18 accused as well as the state government that only the state can grant permission for invoking UAPA for a crime that occurred within Kerala.
 
 The court pointed out that even the first accused had not challenged an earlier HC judgment upholding invoking of UAPA provisions and criticized the state government for opposing use of UAPA even though CBI has completed the investigation and filed a chargesheet. How can the state government, which has to maintain law and order, come to the aid of the accused, the court asked. “The state government is now acting more loyal than (the) king,” the judgment said.
 
 For cases being investigated by the CBI, central government is the sanctioning authority, the court said.
 
 A state government affidavit had argued that the CBI “commenced and concluded investigation as ordered by state government.” The incident occurred within the state and there is no allegation of any terrorist act as defined under UAPA. Therefore, sanction for prosecution in the case can only be given by the state government.
 
 Declining to agree, the court pointed out that the CBI has conducted the probe and has filed the final report. “Here the investigation was happily handed over to the CBI by the state government... Therefore, the state cannot lament that the CBI is not seeking sanction from the government,” the judgment said.
 
 Jayarajan is the 25th accused in the case related to the murder of Elamthottathil Manoj alias Kathiroor Manoj, who was the ‘jilla sharirik shikshan pramukh’ (district leader of physical training) of RSS, in 2014. CBI had named Jayarajan as the mastermind behind the murder and had said that Manoj was an accused in a case related to a murder attempt on Jayarajan in 1999.
 
