Marking the end of harvest season, the festival of   Boishak is celebrated with great fanfare among both Bengali and non-Bengalis. Ringing in the  ,   are ready to gorge on the traditional sweets and enjoy some cultural events today...
A grand feast on the first day of the year is a must at all the traditional Bengali homes. Educationist Maya Mukherjee shares, “There is a different positive atmosphere at home on Poila Boishak. We decide the special menu, days before the festival.”
 There are some who giving their traditional delicacies a modern twist. “Poila   gives us a bigger reason to relish a grand feast all day long,” says IT professional Supriya Chatterjee, adding, “Cooking with mom isn’t a simple task because of differences between us on traditional Bengali vs fusion food. However, we have managed to strike a balance this time and we are preparing doi maach, broccoli bhaaja, chor chori with exotic veggies, baked bhapa doi etc. today.”
 Doing her masters in music,   Roychodhury is also striking a perfect balance between her studies and festivities. “Even though I have my exam tomorrow, I have made sure that I equally enjoy the festivities. While I’ll be studying in the first half of the day, I’ll be catching up with my friends in the evening,” says she.
 Making the most of the weekend, law student Tania Mukherjee has gone to her hometown Chhindwara to be with her family to celebrate. “For the past two years, I have been missing the celebrations at home, but I’m quite happy to be with my family at this time,” says she.
 There are some outstation students who are missing out on their home celebrations today. Feeling a bit depressed, IIM student Somnath Mukherjee says, “I remember how much I have enjoyed the new year with planned parties and good food. But this year, I am busy making presentations for my summer internship.”
 Cultural evenings are an integral part of Poila Boishak celebrations. And many members of the Bengali community will come together for adda. Rakhi Jha, who is looking forward to a cultural evening, says, “A well-known artist from Kolkata will render old Bengali songs and after that we have a get-together at home.”
 
