NEW DELHI: The eyes-and-ear scheme of   paid dividends when a seven-year-old   was rescued from the clutches of a woman and a man, who had   him from outside a temple in south Delhi’s Lodhi Colony on Thursday evening.

 According to the police, accused Bhajan Singh (20) and Radha (35) were arrested after tip-offs were received through a woman, who was a part of the eyes-and-ear scheme.
 
 Cops received a complaint on Friday evening by one Balram Gautam, who said that his seven-year-old nephew had gone missing from the Sai Baba Mandir in Lodhi Colony on Thursday evening. Multiple teams were formed and local informers were tapped to gather information about the boy.
 
 A woman, who is a resident of the same area, came forward and told cops that she had seen the boy being taken by an unknown woman and a man. The tip-off was confirmed when cops scanned the CCTV footage from around the temple and saw the accused woman carrying the kidnapped boy.
 
 The footage was shared among police teams to generate more information. Cops also mounted technical surveillance on the boy’s family’s phone numbers, hoping that the kidnappers would call them for a ransom.
 
 Cops, however, got another tip-off from the same woman informer on Saturday. She told them that the man, who had accompanied the woman kidnapper, was seen at the Sai Baba Temple. The accused had come to the temple to get food, which was being distributed there. The accused was apprehended and taken in for questioning.
 
 During interrogation, Singh broke down and confessed that he, along with his sister-in-law Radha, had kidnapped the seven-year-old.
 
 Singh told cops that the boy was with Radha in a rented room in south Delhi’s Jangpura. Police teams raided the location and arrested the woman. The seven-year-old was rescued and his family members were informed.
 
 During interrogation, Radha told police officers that she belonged to Muraina district in Madhya Pradesh and was married and had two children. However, after a dispute, she moved to her brother-in-law’s place in Delhi. Radha was not given the custody of her two kids. On Thursday, the accused duo saw the kid and decided to kidnap him.
 
 Additional DCP (South) Vijayanta Arya said that the accused have been charged under Section 363 (kidnapping) and 34 (common intentions) of the IPC. They are being further questioned to ascertain their previous crime records.
 
 
