TRICHY: Days after the district administration announced that no heavy vehicles carrying vegetables and fruits will be permitted inside the city’s congested  , the agriculture marketing and agriculture business department on Monday commenced the preliminary process to relocate traders to the   integrated vegetable market complex. On day one of the week-long application distribution process for wholesale traders to opt for space in the new market, more than 150 applications were sold signifying the immense interest among traders in moving out of the century-old market.

 On May 4, in a strategic move, the district administration in consultation with city police and civic body announced that heavy vehicles will be banned in Gandhi market vicinity from June in a bid to push traders to relocate Kallikudi, situated on the outskirts. 
 
 Subsequently, carrying forward the momentum, the district administration through agriculture marketing department on Monday commenced the process of issuing applications. Though the authorities anticipated heavy resistance for the move, officials said that traders in Gandhi market as well in other parts have come forward to receive the application. “There is no other option than to relocate our business. Instead of applying late and anxiously awaiting for the allocation of space, we prefer to be the early birds,” M Sakthi, a trader from Gandhi market told TOI.
 
 Applications priced at Rs 200 will be distributed till May 14, post which a selection committee constituted by the district administration will scrutinise the details furnished by traders seeking shop space in the new market. “We did not anticipate such response. More than 150 applications were sold in a single day. Traders, including wholesale and English vegetable sellers have opted to relocate to the new market,” an official source said.
 
 Within this month, the committee will scrutinise and identify eligible wholesale traders initially for the relocation scheduled to commence by June. Officials added that priority would be given for existing wholesale traders in Gandhi market in order to decongest the facility. 
 
 As many as 330 shops on ground floor of the integrated market will be filled in the first phase followed by 500 shops on the first floor. 
 
 
