When this Russian duo —   and   — came to Chennai for a gig recently, what everyone expected was a good concert, featuring Russian songs. But the audience were surprised when they performed a Tamil song. But that isn’t at all. What’s even more surprising is that Anna speaks Tamil and duo has a special liking for all things Tamil. Excerpts from a chat with Anna.

 
 This time, it was a one-day visit to Chennai. We came to give a concert at Unwind Center in Adyar and to meet our Tamil friends. Then, we joined another group led by professor Alexander Dubiansky, a Tamil scholar from Russia. I learnt Tamil from him. As a group, we are visiting some culturally interesting places like Tiruvannamalai, Tanjavur, Madurai and Rameshvaram, to name a few. 
 
 I studied Tamil for six years at the Institute of Asia and Africa Studies in Moscow. I read and write Tamil. It is impossible to learn any language without reading and writing. I am familiar with pure Tamil. But colloquial language is still hard for me. It is different. I think, I should live here at least for couple of years to master colloquial Tamil. For me, it is much better and easier to speak classical Tamil, though it may seem strange to some people. I think, it’s beautiful and musical. I feel sorry that our regional languages are getting mixed more and more with English. My husband, Alexei, is also interested in Indian culture, but he doesn’t know Tamil. 
 
 
 We’ve tried out couple of Tamil songs. In fact, we sang one song — Arunachala — during the concert. It’s our favourite place in Tamil Nadu (Arunachala refers to Tiruvannamalai). Generally, Indian music is very specific, mostly based on raga system. I don’t have a deep understanding of it, but it is wonderful to know how each raga flows and how the melody develops. 
 
 
 During our visits, we’ve visited several places in Chennai, including Kapaleeswarar kovil and Theosophical Society And food — we both like dosai. I also like lemon rice. Sometimes, we make it at home.
 
 
 We have given only two concerts in Chennai so far. We both try to make it interesting and sing about love, nature and beauty, which are close to everyone’s hearts, irrespective of nationalities. I am sure people here enjoy our music as we see happiness on their faces. 
 
 
 For the concert, I tried two types of bansuri flutes. One of them is made specially for sivaranjani raga. But I play them in my own style, not in Indian classical raga. Most of my flute compositions are in sync with the guitar melody Alexei plays. Of course, it took some time to manage with Indian flutes. I wish that one day I play Indian ragas on flute.
 
  
 I wore sari for this concert because I thought it would be the best chance to flaunt the Indianness in me. I have five saris at home, all are gifts from our friends. I myself made Alexei's clothes after returning from our first trip to India. I am fond of different Indian clothes for its beauty. Sometimes, I even wear it in Russia.
 
 
