For most of us in Chennai, cricket and movies are what we are religiously passionate about. Thanks to CSK’s comeback, this summer, our cricket buffs will enjoy the game as much or even better than fans across the country. But what about   films? With no new   releasing now because of the ongoing strike, will our youngsters have a dull vacation without a big-star film?
 — Purnima.Sah@timesgroup.com
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Yes, I certainly miss watching Kollywood films. It’s very sad that this strike over the virtual print fee between the producers and the digital service providers hasn’t been resolved yet. The entire south zone has been affected by this and it’s been almost a month since this shutdown began. It’s high time that the responsible ones found a solution to this, so that we can enjoy films during summer.
  — Riya Callaghan, Madras Christian College
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 No, I don’t miss watching Kollywood movies in theatres. I am not someone who goes to a theatre and watches a film as soon as it gets released. It’s better to watch films online, where I can choose movies I want to watch and whenever I am free. It’s all at the click of a button. What more can you ask for!
  — Saradha U, Madras Christian College
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 I like Hollywood films more than Kollywood movies, even though some English movies have unrealistic concepts. I wish to see Kollywood filmmakers making concept-oriented movies. Most of the films we have in Tamil are entirely people-oriented and lack creativity; they are boring. So, I am not missing Kollywood films much.
  — C A Sidheasuwar, Loyola College
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Many like me miss the joy of watching new Tamil films on big screen. I am someone who spend weekends and holidays in movie theatres, watching films back to back. So, of late, my weekends are really boring. Since there’s no other go, I sit and watch old films at home. For bachelors, a weekend in the city is incomplete without watching a new film. I am eagerly waiting to see Kaala and Tik Tik Tik on the big screen. 
 — M Navaneetha Krishnan, Loyola Institute of Business Administration
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Yes, I miss watching the latest Kollywood releases every weekend. Films are the ultimate source of entertainment for people across all ages. It’s really unfair that we’re deprived of the best mode of entertainment because some people disagree over certain issues. The shooting of Kollywood films should start soon, so that we will get to see them at least during our vacation. 
 — Kumaresh KR, IIT-Madras
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Going to a cinema theatre is like a weekly ritual for most of us. The three hours of entertainment keeps all worries and tensions at bay. The joy of watching a new film with friends in a theatre is something that can’t be expressed in words. We always take pride in our films and admire our actors so much. But now, it’s such a sad thing that we aren’t able to watch new films. I hope that things will be resolved soon. 
  — R Sanjay Kumar, Bharath Institute of Higher Education and Research
 
 
