MUMBAI: A jeweller from   has been arrested for duping a city jewellery firm of gold worth Rs 13 crore on the pretext of selling it in Hyderabad for a commission.

 
 Besides arresting   Jain, 32, the economic offences wing (EOW) of the city police has detained a Hyderabad-based jeweller Akshay. Latesh claims he handed over the gold to Akshay, which he is denying. The cops brought him over after he could not explain the presence of jewellery worth over Rs 20 lakh in his store.
 
 Latesh, a resident of Navroj Hill in Dongri, has been remanded to police custody till May 2. The police are on the lookout for Rajendra  , Latesh’s accomplice.
 
 Anil Jain of Mahalaxmi Jewels, a gold jewellery firm with offices in Zaveri bazaar, said in his complaint that Raval, who used to work for him, introduced him to Latesh in 2016, saying he gets jewellery orders from Hyderabad.
 
 Latesh gave the impression that he was running a profitable business in Hyderabad and gained Jain’s confidence. “In July 2016, Latesh came to Mahalaxmi Jewels and procured 6kg 22-carat gold jewellery worth Rs 1.6 crore. Within few days, he returned 24-carat gold bars of equivalent worth,” said an officer.
 
 After a few deals where he paid Mahalaxmi Jewels promptly, Latesh and Raval in September placed an order worth Rs 6.5 crore on one-month credit. Before the deadline, Latesh again approached Jain and took gold ornaments worth Rs 6.5 crore.
 
 In October, just before the credit period was to get over, Latesh again placed an order for 30kg gold ornaments. Jain this time refused till payment of Rs 13 crore was cleared. Since then, Latesh started avoiding Jain.
 
 “Latesh started giving one excuse or the other, and in November, he was hospitalised after an alleged suicide attempt by cutting his wrist. Two days after his discharge, he told Jain that the entire gold has been sold to Akshay in Hyderabad,” said the officer.
 
 Akshay’s shop was searched and gold ornaments worth Rs 20 lakh, which Akshay failed to explain how he had procured, were found. He was brought to Mumbai for questioning.
 
 
