KOLKATA: A 15-month-old toddler drowned in a bucket of water in the bathroom even as his twin sister played beside him, while the parents were teaching their elder son (7) in a bedroom at their Metiabruz home on Sunday evening.

 Little   Behera seemed to have had dropped a toy inside the large paint container, being used as a bucket, and as he tried to retrieve it from there, he fell inside head first. Unable to climb out, the helpless child remained face down in the water for at least 10 minutes before his father found him and lifted him out. All along, his sister, Kaveri, played right beside him, but being barely one year and three months old, she didn’t even realize that her brother was gasping for life. Presently, as she toddled into her parents’ room, the father,  , started looking for the boy and found him inside the paint bucket.
 
  
  
 “The two always played together. On Sunday evening, too, they were playing with some toys in the drawing room, while the parents were inside a bedroom. At one point, around 8.30pm, the girl came into their room by herself and sat on the floor, which made the parents a little curious. They started looking for the boy and shortly, found him inside the bucket in the bathroom. When his father lifted him out, he was not breathing any more,” said Jyotsna Rai, Rajgopal’s aunt, who came down from Baleswar in Odisha on Monday on learning about the tragedy. “A dinosaur toy lay at the bottom of the bucket and Rajgopal’s parents suspect he lost his balance and fell inside while trying to pick it up.”
 
 Desperate to save the child,   first rushed Rajgopal to a dentist’s chamber downstairs but the doctor there said it was beyond his ability to treat him. The family then took the child to a private nursing home around 500m away where a doctor checked and declared him dead. The doctor said they would have to call the cops but before the nursing home could act, the family returned home with the little boy’s body. They apparently wanted to avoid the police.
 
 “The family was extremely upset and didn’t want cops to intervene. So they tried to get a death certificate from a local doctor. But their nightlong effort came to a nought. One of the doctors called the police who took them to   where the child was declared dead,” said  , the nextdoor neighbour. The police started a case of unnatural death, sent the body for post-mortem and seized the water bucket.
 
 “He was an extremely cheerful child and had just learnt to walk. I can never forgive myself for not being a little more alert,” Narayan, who worked at Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers Limited, told TOI over phone as he broke down and passed on the phone to another relative. The relative said the family was shattered and the mother had fallen severely ill. “She hasn’t had any food since Sunday evening. She has been falling unconscious time and again,” she said.
 
