Come May, and venturing out of home can be a daunting task in Ahmedabad, thanks to the scorching heat. It’s no different this year and not surprisingly, the popular   joke is back, which goes like, “These days, it is so hot in the city that if you throw 
  on someone, 
  will hit their face.” The prolonged   is showing no signs of relenting and a yellow alert has been issued for the next three days. It means, the average maximum temperature in Ahmedabad will remain between 42 and 44 degree Celsius for the next three days. As per the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation’s heat action plan, the colour signal for heat alert is classified like this: yellow alert (41.1 to 43 degree Celsius), orange alert (43.1 to 44.9 degree Celsius) and red alert (greater than 45 degree Celsius). With hotter days predicted in the coming days, Amdavadis are bracing up for some tough days ahead. 
  
 
 
  Vigin Lal, a scientist at   (India Meteorological Department), shares, “We have collaborated with the AMC and IIPH (Indian Institute of Public Health) for the heat action plan for Ahmedabad. For the Ahmedabad region, 40 to 41.6 degree Celsius is normal for this season but due to the lack of clouds, dry wind is blowing towards the state, leading to the rise in temperature.”
 
  Manorama Mohanty, a senior official at the IMD, said, “Ahmedabad is likely to witness 42 to 44 degree Celsius for the next three days. We have issued a yellow alert for the city. Overall temperature in North Gujarat would remain in the range of 40 and 44 degree Celsius. While Vadodara may see above 40 degree Celsius over the weekend, temperature in Surat is likely to remain below 40 degree Celsius.”
 
  Mohanty advised to not venture out between noon and 5 pm and take ample amount of fluids while avoiding working under direct sunlight.
 
  
 
 
  Irrespective of how hot it is outside, you can’t stay away from your regular work schedule. Actor  , who has been shooting in Ahmedabad for his upcoming Gujarati film, tells us, “Recently, we had an outdoor shooting schedule from 7 am, which was supposed to go on till evening. It was so hot at 10 am that it was difficult to even stand outside! But we managed to complete the sequences. We kept ourselves hydrated and had lots of water, 
  and even cold coffee. Having fruits like orange and watermelon also helped.” 
  Agrees skater Mishri Parikh, “We have an ongoing selection camp (till May 25) for the upcoming Asian and World Championships and there are two sessions (8.30 to 11.30 am and 1.30 to 5 pm). It can get difficult and exhausting, and you can develop cramps unless you are careful. But you need to deal with all kinds of circumstances as a sportsperson. Since we sweat a lot, the key is to keep ourselves hydrated all the time.”
 
  
 
 
  So how can one be extra careful during such times? Dr Ankur Dave, city-based physician, says, “Both in case of orange and yellow alert, one needs to exercise certain precautions. One should avoid going out between 12 to 3 pm. One should wear light-coloured clothes and use light-coloured caps too. If you are riding a twowheeler, you can choose to wear light-coloured helmet.”
 
  He adds, “The fundamental rule is to drink plenty of liquid to stay hydrated. One should have four to five litres of liquid in a day. This can include water, butter milk and coconut water. Before going out in the sun, one should have lemon water with sugar and salt. One should also have light food and avoid spicy food. When the mercury soars, heat strokes, sunburns and sun allergies become quite common. The symptoms of heat strokes include severe headache, nausea, vomiting and high fever. In such cases, the person should be given immediate medical attention.”
 
  
  
 
 
 At 44 degrees Celsius, May 11 was the season’s hottest day for Ahmedabad.
 
  An orange alert is issued when the average temperature is likely to be between 43.1 and 44.9 degrees Celsius.
 
  The Met department has warned that there might be hotter days ahead.
 
  
  
 
 
 Stay hydrated all the time. Four to five litres of liquid per day is a must.
 
  Avoid going out between 12 to 3 pm.
 
  Opt for light-coloured clothes and caps/helmets.
 
  Have lemon water with sugar and salt before going out in the sun.
 
  Avoid spicy food. Add fruits to your diet.
  
  Watch out for the symptoms of heat stroke.
 
  
 
 
