By: Sunil Rahar

 CHANDIGARH: Top officials and a few employees of Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) observed car-free day on Wednesday by coming to office on bicycles.
 
 In a bid to promote cycling, municipal commissioner  , on Monday, passed an order directing employees to cycle to office every Wednesday. Those who do not know how to ride a bicycle or who do not have a bicycle were allowed to use public transport. Heads of all departments were asked to ensure compliance and prepare a report. Employees were also asked to use cycle tracks and offer their suggestions.
 
 Of the 800 employees working in different departments of the corporation, only around 100, including MC commissioner  , additional commissioner I  , additional commissioner II Anil Kumar Garg, chief engineer   and Mayor Davesh Moudgil reached office on bicycle.
 
 A number of employees came on their personal vehicles and parked them near the office while family members dropped a few within walking distance. Many employees also used public transport.
 
 Only bicycles were allowed inside the MC office gate and even visitors on vehicles were not allowed to enter the premises. MC commissioner Jatinder Yadav said more employees would commute to office on bicycle next Wednesday. He said they would urge private companies to donate bicycles to the corporation under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) programme and bikes would be distributed among employees.
 
 Lauding the initiative, Chandigarh mayor Davesh Moudgil said, “The move will encourage residents to opt for bicycle as a mode of transport.”
 
 A few employees in the corporation have been coming to the office on bicycle for many years. Surender Singh said, “I have been using a bicycle for 10 years. Every day, I come to the office from   and it takes me around 55 minutes.” Another employee,  , has been coming to office on bicycle since 2002. “Cycling keeps me healthy and does not leave a negative impact on the environment,” he said.
 
 Later, Davesh Moudgil and Jitender Yadav led all MC employees, including women, to spread the message of “Mahila Ho Sashakt to Desh Ho Swachh” for women’s empowerment.
 
