THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: None of the universities or colleges in the state could even apply for the full academic and administrative autonomy, which the   ( )bestowed to 62 higher education institutions elsewhere in the country last week.

 
 An A+ grade by   ( ) and 50 or above ranking in the National Institutional Ranking (NIR) by the human resources ministry were the basic prerequisites fixed for applying for full autonomy. None of the universities in   has an A+ ranking nor a remarkable NIR ranking.
 
 “I don’t think none of our universities would ever be able to achieve the ranking the UGC has fixed for institutions seeking full autonomy. We have long lost the intellectual high culture that once prevailed in some of our universities. The academic high culture has now been replaced with political high culture. Unless we have excellent teachers who matter in their respective academic area, we cannot have an institution of high academic stature,” said educationalist and   vicechairman  .
 
 “Only an academically brilliant teacher with a respectable position among his peer group would be able to do justice to the role of a vice-chancellor. But unfortunately, politics has taken over academics on most of our campuses. At the same time, the way the Union government and UGC are showering autonomy on academic institutions would bring more harm than good to the education sector in the country,” he added.
 
 According to him, by granting autonomy to a small group of handpicked institutions, the government wants to cut down the distribution of funds to higher education sector.
 
 “This would split the institutions into two sets and would in turn be soon used to impoverish a large number of education institutions by citing their poor ranking, which itself is not scientific or true to the fact on most occasions. Full autonomy to institutions like JNU at this juncture would ruin it,” he added.
 
 But there are also others with divergent views.
 
 “There are attempts to curtail even whatever little bit autonomy that some of the higher education institutions were given by the former government. Hence, there is no point in wondering about why no institutions figured in the UGC list. Even if the universities wished to try for more autonomy, it’s doubtful whether the government would have supported them. There is no doubt that none of the universities or the state government would have even given their consent to aided or private institutions if they wanted to attain the autonomy offered by UGC by improving their ranking,” said the vice-chancellor of a state university.
 
