AHMEDABAD:   has ordered an inquiry into the   involved in arson and violence at five multiplexes in Ahmedabad on January 23. The violence took place during a ‘candlelight protest’ by   against the release of the film Padmaavat.

 Top city police officials said the inquiry has been handed to additional deputy commissioner of police Andrew Makwan, who was part of the bandobast for the candlelight march which snowballed into the violence. 
 
  
  Soon after the march began from Iskcon Crossroads, participants stormed and vandalized a nearby mall.
 
 The mob torched more than 70 vehicles and vandalized five multiplexes in the western parts of the city. More than 48 persons were arrested by police, based on a total of four FIRs lodged at Vastrapur and Satellite police stations. The accused face charges of attempted murder and attempted culpable homicide.
 
 Government officials said serious note has also been taken of the failure of city police to heed specific intelligence inputs, which specified the place, Sanand, where the conspiracy was hatched.
 
 Top police officials said three policemen, Lalsinh Harisinh, Jogendrasinh Pravinsinh and Dharmendrasinh Bhavubha, have already been suspended for letting of a key conspirator — Rajendrasinh alias Rajbha Vaghela, a real estate agent from Sanand and the son of the former president of Sanand Market Yard, Raubha Vaghela. Raubha had given land on lease for the Tata Nano project at a token price of Rs 1. Raubha died in 2012.
 
 “We also came across another policemen and are inquiring into his role in letting Rajendrasinh out of the lock-up amd conniving with rioters who vandalized the multiplexes. We are also hunting for four other prime conspirators named in the FIR,” added a senior police official. 
 
 Top city police officials said the inquiry conducted by additional DCP Makwan will cover all aspects including the connivance of policemen with the rioters.
 
 Officials of the state home department said the alleged involvement of cops is a serious matter and they will seek a report from city police.
 
 “We will take strict action against police officials found to be negligent or in connivance with rioters who allegedly torched vehicles and vandalized multiplexes,” a source in the home department said.
 
 
 
 
 Police sources said it has emerged that two meetings were held in Sanand on January 23. “One was between the conspirators and 150 youths at Jaldhara farm and the second at Riddhi Siddhi Society, built by Rajbha’s father. At 4pm on the fateful day, youths were sent from Sanand on bikes to participate in the candlelight at Ahmedabad. The youths reached Ahmedabad at about 6.30pm. Most of the accused arrested belong to Sanand,” added a senior police official.
 
 
