MUMBAI: The   has acquitted a man convicted for the “honour killing” of his daughter. The HC quashed the conviction and life sentence handed by a Pune trial court five years ago.

 The acquittal was pronounced by a vacation bench, which was convened to hear pending criminal case appeals. The trial court had pronounced Arun Erkal — a government employee — guilty of inflicting over 40 wounds with a pair of scissors on his 17-year-old daughter in December 2002 at their Yerawada home. 
 
 The injuries had punctured her lungs and other vital organs.
 
 But on May 9, a bench comprising justices Abhay Oka and  , for reasons to be recorded separatel,y allowed Erkal’s appeal against his conviction. Additional public prosecutor Prajakta Shinde argued that the July 2013 conviction was based on cogent evidence, but Erkal’s lawyer   argued insufficient evidence to nail him for murder. 
 
 But in the guilty verdict, the then Pune sessions Judge A M Badar, now a Bombay high court Judge, held that it was established beyond doubt that Erkal had intentionally caused his daughter’s death. The trial court had even observed how “this case belies the thinking that honour killing is a recent phenomenon mainly found in  , as according to the prosecution, accused father Arun Erkal brutally killed his daughter who had eloped ...;to maintain the family’s honour”.
 
 According to the prosecution, Erkal, then 50 years old, was employed as the caretaker of a state run remand home at Pune. 
 
 He used to stay at the official residence provided by the state government with his college-going daughter, two sons and wife. 
 
 Erkal’s daughter had been kidnapped when she was in the seventh standard and the accused was her neighbour. Just before she was killed, the neighbour had been acquitted and her brother had spotted him taking her on a two-wheeler from a school event on December 20, 2002. Her brother chased them but lost track and rushed to Pune railway station, where his father was leaving town, to tell him about her eloping. 
 
 The brother and mother even lodged a complaint of ‘abduction” with the police but she returned home in the evening. The prosecution said that was when her father “assaulted” her. Her brother later found her lying dead. Her brothers were witnesses for the prosecution during the trial against their father and identified his blood-soaked clothes. 
 
 The police said they had also recovered the scissors and a stick which were used as weapons and his blood soaked clothes which were used as evidence to pin him down for the murder. In court, Erkal’s plea was “not guilty” though the police said he had himself gone to the police station to confess. 
 
 However, since a confession or statement made before the police is not considered evidence, the prosecutor needs to show the presence of other evidence which the trial court felt was adequately proven, while in appeal it appears to have fallen short.
 
 Joshi argued that the evidentiary value of the FIR and of the weapon of alleged assault was weak. He also questioned the credibility of witnesses’ statements and argued that the evidence on record was not sufficient to convict.
 
 
