GHAZIABAD: A   transport aircraft of the 1940s was formally inducted into the vintage fleet of the Indian Air Force at a ceremony at the air force station in Hindon, Ghaziabad, on Friday.

 The aircraft, a Dakota DC-3, was obtained from the scrap in 2011 and was restored to flying condition in the UK by Rajya Sabha MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar. Subsequently, the IAF signed a contract with the Reflight Airworks of London to upgrade its navigational system. Earlier, on February 13, 2018, the chief of air staff, Air Chief Marshal Birender Singh Dhanoa, had symbolically accepted the aircraft from Rajeev Chandrasekhar.
 
 A large fleet of Dakota DC-3 served in the IAF till 1988. 
 
 The restored aircraft, named Parashuram, has been given a registration number—VP 905. Built in 1944, the aircraft had served with the Royal Air Force and was also operated by various civil airlines. It had also transported the troops of the 1st Sikh Regiment to Srinagar on October 27, 1947, during the Kashmir conflict. 
 
 After successfully completing all test flights since its restoration, the aircraft commenced its journey from the UK on April 17, 2018. It was flown to India by a joint crew of the IAF and Reflight Airworks. En route to India, the aircraft halted at France, Italy, Greece, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Oman and Jamnagar in Gujarat. It completed its journey on April 26, 2018, at Hindon air force station in Ghaziabad.
 
 Air Chief Marshal Dhanoa congratulated the team that flew the aircraft over 9,750km. “The Dakota was one of the core tools of victory for the Allied Forces in   II. During the Second   War, there was an incident wherein a Dakota crash-landed in a forest with a quarter of one wing being sawn off. The crew then cut off a similar length from the other wing and flew it back to base. The Dakota has a special place in the history of IAF ever since it was inducted in 1946. The aircraft was used for transporting troops and supplies to inaccessible areas in Ladakh and the North East. The IAF has operated over 90 Dakotas between 1946 and 1959. It has played an important role in the conflicts of 1947-48 and 1971,” said Dhanoa.
 
 Air Commodore M K Chandrasekhar (retd) was granted special permission to fly on board the aircraft from Jamnagar to Hindon.
 
 
