TIRUVARUR: Police arrested over 180 villagers including the anti-methane project movement leader professor  , while they attempted to besiege the work site where the process of establishing oil well is on for extracting natural oil and gas by the ONGC at Kadambangudi in   district. Earlier police arrested three villagers who tried to stall the work on Friday.

 The protestors alleged that hectares of fertile lands in and around the Kadambangudi village had lost its fertility and groundwater table had been depleting, due to ongoing extraction work by the ONGC. Meanwhile, upon hearing the news that the ONGC authorities were in the preparatory works of erecting another oil well, they gathered there and opposed the move.   police rushed to the spot and arrested Sivakumar, Shanmugasundaram and Sundarapandian for abetting protest on Friday.
 
 Meanwhile, a large number of villagers including the members of Makkal Adhikaram besieged the site where ONGC was preparing to dig a new well and raised slogans against their move. Earlier, they took out a rally from Thenpathi village and reached the work site at Kadambangudi.
 
 However, anti-methane project movement leader T Jayaraman who arrived there to oppose the project was intercepted and arrested by police before reaching the spot. The police also arrested over 180 people including 80 women and 22 school students who protested on the site.
 
 In another incident, a section of villagers stated protest against the Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) pipeline project near   in Tiruvarur, here on Friday. A section of villagers registered their protest against laying of pipelines across their area. The GAIL has been conveying gas through underground pipelines from Nallur to Thirumakkottai, a distance of 9 km, since 2001. It is said to be mandatory for GAIL to renovate the works after completion of 15 years.
 
 While work was completed for a stretch of 7.5 km, the balance has faced stiff opposition from the landowners. Police detained 8 persons for staging a protest.
 
 
