BENGALURU:   reported a paltry 2.5% IT services revenue growth on constant currency basis in the fourth quarter, compared to a year earlier, the weakest among its peers. The company was hobbled by bankruptcies of two of its clients — at least one of which is in the telecom vertical — and continued weakness in its healthcare business in the US.

 
 Wipro, which has now been overtaken by smaller rival   in terms of market capitalisation, also issued a tepid guidance for the first quarter of 2018-19 as it takes the revenue hit from the bankruptcies in its books. For the quarter ending June 30, the company said revenue could drop by as much as 2% sequentially, and will remain flat in the best case scenario.
 
 Shares of the company took a beating on the NYSE in morning trade with American depositary receipts (ADRs) down about 5% to $5. The disappointment is exacerbated by the fact that Wipro’s full-year growth on constant currency crashed to nearly 3% from 7% in 2016-17.
 
 In comparison,   and   grew at close to 6% and 7% respectively.
 
 “We are disappointed at the loss of momentum in Q1 due to surprises out of bankruptcies faced by our two clients with a revenue run rate of over $50 million, additional impact in the   business (in the US) as more clients exit the exchange market, and weakness in our communications business unit,” CEO   said.
 
 Wipro is also yet to consider the impact of the divestiture of its hosted data centre services business to Ensono for a consideration of $405 million.
 
 In March, one of its telecom clients, said to be Aircel, filed for insolvency. The British energy client Carillion went belly-up earlier this year. “There are more headwinds to be prepared for in HPS,” Neemuchwala admitted. The insolvencies also dented the margins, down to 14.4% in the last quarter, from 18.3% in the preceding one. Excluding this impact, it was 16%. For the full year, it dropped to nearly 16% from 18%. The numbers could not have been starker when compared to TCS, which is operating at about 25.4%.
 
