BENGALURU: In 2013,   rode to power promising to end illegal mining in the state. In fact, it tapped the massive iron ore scandal that dogged the BJP’s first term in the state, to attack its rival party and also took on the powerful mining barons of Ballari.

 Siddaramaiah emerged the Congress’ chief ministerial candidate by undertaking a 315km padayatra from Bengaluru to Ballari, the mining hub, in 2010.
 
 Cut to 2018 and the tables seem to have turned on Siddaramaiah. On Saturday, JD(S) president H D Kumaraswamy accused the CM’s office of allowing illegal mining of iron ore worth over Rs 5,450 crore. 
 
 “The iron ore scam is likely to be a major problem for Siddaramaiah, as the JD(S) intends to make a political issue of it. The party is also planning to campaign and release a book on the alleged irregularity and distribute the same across the state. We are waiting for the CM to respond,” said a senior JD(S) leader. The  , too, seems determined to take the Congress head on in this matter.
 
 After becoming the CM, Siddaramaiah entrusted the task of investigating the scam to the enforcement directorate (money laundering) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (inter-state ramifications) and constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to look into the roles played by government officials. But none made headway in cracking the Rs16,000-crore iron ore scam that was brought to the fore by the   in 2011.
 
 “On September 20 last year, the CBI sent a report saying it cannot register a case and that the state can take any further action. Recently, the government asked us to look into illegal exports of iron ore and we are just taking baby steps,” said a senior police officer, who is part of SIT.
 
 “The SIT made no progress other than compiling investigation papers and wasting government funds. The SIT and the government failed to act because not just BJP leaders, even Congress leaders are involved in it. Besides, they were also under pressure from the 617 officials, including IAS, IPS and IFS officers, who had been indicted by the anti-corruption body,” alleged S Sridhar, an RTI activist.
 
 Last year, Siddaramaiah faced the heat for giving preferential treatment in renewing iron ore mining leases of eight firms, some of which are still being probed by various agencies for illegal mining. 
 
 The opposition BJP had then demanded a detailed probe into the renewal of mining leases, alleging irregularities worth Rs 2,500 crore.
 
 According to   guidelines and an advisory issued by the Centre, mining leases are to be given to firms through auction. But the government bypassed that process and renewed mining leases of six firms and issued fresh leases to two others in a hurry, allegedly in violation of the provisions of the Mines & Minerals Development & Regulation (MMDR) Act, 1957.
 
 However, the state government had then defended itself saying it did so as per recommendations of the Indian Bureau of Mines ( ).
 
 
 
