NEW DELHI: The   on Tuesday said sending   to   would   of homebuyers who are not getting possession of their houses despite having paid money and   the   to complete the   within a   is a better option.

 Unlike in housing projects of Jaypee and Unitech in which the apex court is trying get money refunded to homebuyers, a bench of Justices Arun Mishra and U U Lalit said it intended to ensure that buyers in Amrapali’s projects got possession of their flats and asked the company to place before it a viable business plan on how to complete the projects in a time-bound manner.
 
 “It is very easy to send them to jail and we can do it right now but it may not solve the problems of homebuyers,” the bench said when advocates appearing for some of the flat-buyers pleaded for punitive action against the promoters for their failure to complete the projects. 
 
 Over 42,000 homebuyers, who have invested in various projects of Amrapali, are not getting possession of flats despite having paid substantial amount. There are many projects which have not taken off as yet. 
 
 As the cash-strapped company is facing insolvency proceedings, senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, appearing for the developer, sought the court’s permission to auction its land to raise money to complete the nine projects nearing completion.
 
 The bench, however, refused its plea and said, “We cannot allow you to auction the property until the buyers get their flats. You first complete the project and then we will consider your plea. You have to show your bona fide first.”
 
 The court granted the company time till April 25 to frame a comprehensive plan on how to complete six of the nine projects which are at completion stage.
 
 As per an estimate filed in the apex court, around Rs 452 crore would be needed for five projects in Noida . These projects are Amrapali Sapphire, Amrapali Zodiac, Amrapali Eden Park, Amrapali Silicon City -I, II and the number of flats is 6917.
 
 Lahoty had told the bench that are other four projects in Greater Noida where constructions are at an advanced stage and possession could be handed over to buyers in 3-12 months. He, however, said an amount of Rs 1500 cr would be required to complete the projects of Leisure Park. Amrapali Golf Homes, Amrapali Centurian Park and Verona Heights which have 2753 flats.
 
 
