Nagpur: Despite taking over the charge of city bus services last year, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and Delhi Integrated Multimodal Transit System (DIMTS) have failed to solve the timing issue.

 This is evident from the number of calls their helpline number receives related to glitches in schedules of the buses. Out of the nearly 250 calls and around 70 messages received by the helpline number per day, maximum account for issues regarding pick and drop service of the buses.
 
 Sources from the NMC’s transport department told TOI that the helpline number receives calls regarding timing of buses, breakdowns, bad state of seats, filthy condition, change in routes, conductor and driver-related issues among others. But the city bus whereabouts are the most frequently asked questions.
 
 The helpline call center was started by DIMTS in April last year to provide relief to the commuters and assist in daily commuting. A complaint redressal mechanism on WhatsApp was also launched in July for the passengers to register their issues.
 
 Akshay Gedam, a resident of Bharatwada, said, “I missed many assignments due to uncertainty in the bus timing. Cabs turn out to be better options at times. Bus schedules are an issue that affects students mostly.”
 
 Manoj Pandhare from Gorewada said, “Though the services are improving, a lot still needs to be done. The buses are unpredictable at times and the lack of empathy of conductors and drivers add to the woes. Even in the age of technology, the corporation is failing to provide citizens good bus services.”
 
 CP Tiwari, head of DIMTS, said, “As compared to the past years, the services of the city buses have come a long way. The helpline and WhatsApp redressal system got great feedback from people and we aim to provide the best services to the public. If the complaints are genuine, immediate actions are taken and attempts are made to solve the issue promptly. Though bus timings are an issue, it has considerably decreased and we are working to completely remove it.”
 
 
