BEED: Constable Lalita Salve, 29, from   was more than relieved on Tuesday when she got admitted to St George Hospital for her much-awaited sex reassignment surgery.

 
 “I am very happy!” was all she could say when TOI met her at the Fort hospital’s VIP suite No. 3. But Salve’s long fight to change her gender won’t end soon as doctors say it would take another six months to complete a series of surgeries for sex reassignment.
 
  
  
 
 The first surgery may take place on Friday if new permissions – this time at the hospital level – come through, said Dr   from the state-run hospital.
 
 Dr Kapur has treated Salve for over a year, from the time he was posted at JJ Hospital. Salve got admitted to St George’s Hospital as that’s where Dr Kapur is now posted. 
 
 “Salve has taken all permissions from the police and the government, but the surgical team needs to take permission from the hospital’s medical superintendent,” said the plastic surgeon. “I will seek permission in writing on Wednesday morning.” Once it’s granted, Salve’s sex reassignment surgery will be the hospital’s very first. Salve needs to get two sets of surgical changes. Doctors will first carry out operations to ensure that she is able to urinate like a man. Then they need to construct male genitalia. Salve was born with small external male genitalia that her parents mistook for that of a female’s and brought her up accordingly. Salve has mentioned several times that she has the condition gender dysphoria and always wanted to be male. 
 
 Tests revealed that she was genetically male with XY sex chromosomes. If the sex reassignment surgery works well, doctors won’t prescribe hormonal medication. But she may need hair transplant for a beard and denser moustache. “Lalita is now too old to grow a beard, a process that occurs at puberty. If the beard doesn’t come up naturally, we may need to consider hair transplant,” her doctor said. 
 
 Salve’s maternal uncle, Arjun Ujgare, who is in Mumbai with her, said, “We are all hoping for the best results. After her surgery, she wants to be reinducted into the state police as a male constable,” said Salve’s brother. 
 
 The family won’t be able to afford the AC VIP room where Salve has been kept temporarily as non-AC rooms weren’t available when she was admitted. Salve joined the police as a constable nine years ago. In September 2017, she sought a month’s leave to undergo sex re-assignment surgery. Her leave application was rejected by the police that November, after which she moved court. 
 
 The high court then told her to approach the Maharashtra administrative tribunal. Things moved fast when CM   stepped in and directed the home department to consider her case positively
 
