CHENNAI: The next time you decide to call the scrap dealer to hand over the heap of old newspapers at your house, think again. It could be where your child’s next kaleidoscope could come from. 

 For anyone who wants to be a part of a zero waste movement, a collective of experts, planners, residents and NGOs are there to handhold you.   was started in October 2017 with the idea of bringing together stakeholders to arrive at sustainable waste management solutions. On March 18, the Murasoli Maran Park in Perambur will host a Kuppai Thiruvizha (waste management fair) with stalls promoting alternatives to plastic, talks and workshops on source segregation, home composting and upcycling.
 
 "The thiruvizha concept was conceived to take the message across to the public, and parks were chosen as the platform as they are inclusive and accessible," says Kripa Ramachandran, researcher with  , one of the partners in Kuppai Matters.
 
 Sunday’s thiruvizha will be the third, after Anna Nagar and Mylapore, and has been conceptualised to initiate discussion particularly on the Kodungaiyur dumpyard, which for the rest of the city has been "out of sight and out of mind", according to Ramachandran. "We expect a big turnout particularly from the waste picking community. The idea is to get a perspective from people on what it’s like to live with a dumpsite in their backyard," she adds.
 
 Kuppai Matters has 20 organisations on board, including Arappor Iyakkam, Pen Urimai Iyakkam, Vettiver Collective, Urban Design Collective and Arunodaya. The idea is to work in tandem on issues like air quality and public health.
 
 "An important part of our work is to sensitise people about centralised and decentralised waste management," says   of Urban Design Collective.
 
 They also put together DIY kits for residents with solutions on waste management. "Using   Maps, we help them set up community waste units, dry waste management and material recovery facilities in neighbourhoods," says Mohankumar.
 
 Kuppai Matters plans to start solid waste management clinics across the city in April, which will help residents’ welfare associations with localised planning and capacity building, besides engaging the corporation on waste management solutions. Despite having several rules in place and Greater Chennai Corporation’s notification making source segregation of waste mandatory, not much has been done. "We wanted to understand what the problem is in Chennai, given that we generate 710g of solid waste per capita, the highest in the country. We also looked at parallel models such as Mysore to see what they were doing right," says Ramachandran.
 
 
