BENGALURU: Reduced to low numbers in the state, the   parties — Communist Party of India (CPI) and Communist Party of India-Marxist ( ) — are trying to stage a comeback in the assembly elections.

 Eyeing a handful of seats across the state, including a few in Bengaluru, the Left parties are trying hard to forge strategic alliances with the bigger secular parties, the   and JD(S). While discussions among national leaders of these parties are progressing well, leaders at the state level are yet to warm up to the idea.
 
 “The need for a grand alliance of secular forces has been realised at the national level and the idea has already gained traction. But in Karnataka, the dynamics are different and talks are yet to be initiated,” said Siddanagowda Patil, national council member of CPI.
 
 The JD(S), which has already cobbled up an alliance with Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), has had preliminary discussions with CPI and CPM . 
 
 “The JD(S) will be more than happy to include Left parties. As far as seat sharing in Karnataka is concerned, they have to be reasonable,” said Kunwar Danish Ali, secretary-general of JD(S).
 
 The CPM is planning to contest 26 assembly seats in Karnataka and has sent feelers to the JD(S). But the dampener is that JD(S) has announced its candidate from Bagepalli in Chikkaballapura district. CPM state secretary G V Srirama Reddy, who won twice from there in 1994 and 2004, is keen on contesting from the seat this time.
 
 “They (JDS) say they are interested in an alliance with us. At the same time, they have gone ahead and announced candidates for seats from where we can win. These issues need to be sorted out before starting discussions,” said Srirama Reddy.
 
 Reddy said his party will contest from at least five Bengaluru seats — KR Puram, Mahdevapura, Peenya Dasarahalli, Bengaluru (South) and Anekal.
 
 Meanwhile, the CPI, which is planning to field candidates in 15 constituencies, has written to Congress leaders seeking an alliance with the party. “Our party general secretary   is expected to be in Bengaluru in a couple of days and will take a call after taking feedback from party leaders,” said state Congress vice-president B L Shankar. 
 
 Although effective in voicing socio-economic issues in Karnataka, representation of Left parties in the assembly has been limited over the years. In Bengaluru, CPI leader   won four times — twice each from Malleswaram and Rajajinagar — between 1967 and 1983. The CPI and CPM together won seven assembly seats in 1983.
 
 “The JD(S) reaching out to national parties BSP and NCP assumes significance in view of next year’s Lok Sabha elections, where there would be a strong effort to create a third front. The Karnataka assembly election may be a forerunner for things to come,” said political analyst K Satyanarayana.
 
 
 
 
 The recent assault case involving Congress lawmaker NA Haris’ son seems to have given much-needed traction to Aam Admi Party (AAP), which is planning to field retired IAS officer Renuka Viswanathan against him in Shantinagar. 
 
 “After the MLA’s son got embroiled in the assault case, we went door to door seeking people’s opinion. The common refrain was ‘bhaya’ (fear) of the  ,” said Prithvi Reddy, state coordinator of AAP.
 
 AAP, which has already launched protest programmes such as a padayatra and candlelight vigil, will hold a ‘Nirbhaya March’ on Saturday to instil confidence among the residents of Shantinagar.
 
 Reddy said AAP is planning to contest from 10 assembly seats in Bengaluru, including Sarvagnanagar which is now represented by Bengaluru development minister  , BTM Layout against home minister Ramalinga Reddy, Mahadevapura, Basavanagudi, Hebbal, Shivajinagar and K R Puram. 
 
 
