KOLKATA: The Rs 20-crore loan default allegation against   Kerala state secretary’s elder son   in the UAE is gaining traction within CPM contingents elsewhere in the country, including Bengal, in the run-up to the CPM party congress.

 Even though Binoy is not a party member, some members in   have picked up the controversy to corner CPM Kerala state secretary and politburo member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, who pilloried the   faction in the last central committee meeting held in Kolkata to rule out “any understanding” with Congress. The issue came up in CPM’s   state committee after the CC meeting, where former minister Manab Mukherjee demanded a statement from the central committee.
 
 A statement issued by the CPM Kerala state secretariat in January giving a clean chit to Binoy has added fuel to the raging controversy. “Binoy Kodiyeri has made it clear there are no such cases against him in Dubai or any restriction on his travel,” it said. The statement came into question after a Dubai court imposed a travel ban on Binoy till he settled the dispute with the Deira-based Al Jaas Tourism LLC. The court ordered Binoy to deposit his passport with the country’s treasury.
 
 The news, published in the ‘Khaleej Times’, has come as a shot in the arm to the Bengal CPM owing allegiance to CPM general secretary Yechury. The young liberals in Bengal CPM want the issue raised in the coming CPM central committee meeting. They hold that CPM can’t get away by saying that Binoy is not a party member.
 
 The liberals pointed to the letter the local UAE sponsor of the Deira-based company, Nsaeel Abdullah Al Marzooqi, wrote to CPM central leadership accusing Binoy of cheating the company and absconding from the UAE by not paying back an accumulated interest and principal, totalling nearly Dirham 1crore (nearly Rs 13crore). The CPM CC has forwarded the letter to Kerala CPM.
 
 According to party insiders in Bengal, raising the issue at the party forum would hardly bring about any change in the decision-making of the central committee, where former CPM general secretary Prakash Karat has a massive majority. 
 
 A few in the Kerala CPM would, however, encourage this controversy because that would queer CPM Kerala state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s becoming the Kerala CM, as is the tradition among Left in Kerala. Party members cited instances of VS Achuthanandan and Pinarayi Vijayan, who had been holding the state secretary’s post before they became chief ministers.
 
 
