CHANDIGARH: It is not often that a man, convicted of culpable homicide, finds himself on the same side as the judge who convicted him. But, thanks to a quirk of fate, that is precisely what has happened in Punjab.

  was convicted of culpable homicide in a road rage case in 2006 by a division bench headed by Justice Mehtab Singh Gill when he was a judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court. Today, Sidhu is a cabinet minister in the Punjab government and Justice Gill, who retired from the high court in 2010, heads the state government’s commission investigating false cases filed during the previous SAD-BJP regime.
 
 
 Interestingly, Justice U U Lalit, who is now a judge of the  , was Sidhu’s lawyer when he was fighting his case in the high court.
 
 Justice Gill was appointed head of the commission when the Captain   government came to power last year. The commission has submitted six interim reports so far and decided more than 895 cases out of 4,349 complaints it has received. When contacted, Justice Gill refused to comment.
 
 Gurnam Singh, who was then 65, had died after fist blows by Sidhu in Patiala on December 27, 1988.
 
 
 
 
 In its judgment of September 22, 1999, the Patiala district and session judge had acquitted Sidhu and his friend Rupinder Singh Sandhu in the case. But the state government in 2000 appealed against the verdict in the high court. On December 6, 2006, the high court division bench, which included Justice B Singh besides Justice Gill, had sentenced Sidhu and Sandhu to three years’ rigorous imprisonment, against which Navjot Singh Sidhu has moved the SC.
 
 On Thursday, the Punjab government’s legal team told the Supreme Court to confirm the high court’s conviction. Amarinder later said that his government had no choice but to go with this decision and hoped that the top court would consider Sidhu’s contribution to society in its final verdict.
 
 Asked about his reaction to Punjab government’s stand in the Supreme Court, Sidhu had said on Friday that he would suffer the burden of the outcome single-handedly and that he believed in the judiciary.
 
 The high court judgment authored by Justice Gill reads, “Learned counsel for the accused (Sidhu) has vehemently argued that it was the cardiac condition which caused the death of Gurnam Singh as the condition of his heart was weak and it is thereafter when he fell on the ground that he suffered an injury on the left temporal region. For repetition sake, stating again that neither Dr   prosecution witness (PW)-2 or the Pathologist, nor the Board constituted on whose behalf Dr Krishan Vij PW-1 has stated, that the mode of death of Gurnam Singh was cardiac arrest.”
 
 The high court order also said, “The only conclusion we can come to, is that Gurnam Singh died due to a fist blow given by accused Navjot Singh Sidhu on the left temporal region of his head. Gurnam Singh was an old man of 65 years and he could not take the impact of the blow given by a young, physically fit man,” reads the judgment.”
 
 Both Sidhu and Sandhu were convicted for committing culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Sandhu was also convicted for acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention and voluntarily causing hurt to Jaswinder Singh, who was with Gurnam at the time of the attack.
 
