NAGPUR: The   has recently declared that it would henceforth contest all elections on its own and work towards getting the status of a national party. A pro-Vidarbha youth leader has said the   could surely achieve this goal by supporting creation of separate state of Vidarbha.

 Nitin Ronghe, convener of ‘Maha Vidarbha Janajagran,’ addressing a press conference here on Saturday, appealed to the Sena to create Vidarbha state as it would in the party’s interests and help in meeting the criterion for being acknowledged as national party by the Election Commission of India. Sena is the only party in the state which is opposed to split of Marathi-speaking Maharashtra. Its natural ally, the BJP, has always cited that as obstacle in creation of Vidarbha state.
 
 “Not many may be aware that Shiv Sena established by Balasaheb Thackeray in 1966 is the third oldest party after the   and the   of India. Yet it has remained a regional or state party. Its founder’s dream of recognition as national party remained unfulfilled though newer parties like the NCP and even   have become national. All this can change for Sena if Vidarbha becomes a state,” said Ronghe explaining his warped logic.
 
 One of the conditions set by the ECI for recognition as national party is that it should win at least 2% votes in the   elections. That translates into 11 Lok parliamentary seats. But it should be from three states. So if Vidarbha state is created, the Sena can easily win seats in Vidarbha and Maharashtra where it already has good presence and also from one of other states since it is planning to contest across the country from 2019 election, Ronghe opined.
 
 Asked for his comment, Krupal Tumane, Shiv Sena MP from Ramtek, said the Sena would never betray the Marathi cause. “The Sena can easily achieve its goals of securing 2% votes in next elections. All these years being traditional ally of the BJP it did not contest from other states to avoid division of Hindutva votes. Now the Sena is free to contest from al states on its own and achieve the goal soon of getting national party tag,” asserted Tumane.
 
 
