PANAJI: The river navigation department (RND) is contemplating buying a solar-powered ferry. The boat, introduced in Kerala last year, currently plies between   and   and is India's first solar ferry. The RND has procured a feasability report from the Kerala government, and it will be forwarded to the government for advice. 

 An RND officer said that a team from the state visited Vaikkom to examine the ferry after a communique from the chief minister's office about its operation. An officer who was part of the team said the question now is whether Goa should prepare a separate feasibility report or rely on the Kerala one.
 
 "Our waters have strong currents, quite unlike the Kerala river in which the boat was plying," the officer said, adding that the department has discussed this with RND minister Ramkrishna 'Sudin' Dhavalikar, who is also keen to have a solar ferry in Goa. During informal discussions, Dhavalikar said that the government could call for an expression of interest (EOI). 
 
 "In that case, we would not be required to conduct a feasibility study as it would be carried out by the party keen to start the venture," the officer said.
 
 If all goes well, the officer said the solar ferry would be introduced along the   route. The route was discontinued a little prior to the Liberation of Goa. "The Aldona-Panaji ferry would allow people from   to reach Panaji in 45 minutes. It takes longer now, as they have to travel via Mapusa," he pointed out. 
 
 However, the venture appears to be a costly affair as the cost of building a solar ferry is about Rs 3 crore, thrice the cost of the ferries currently plying in Goa. Also, the ferry is designed differently, as it takes into account the comfort of passengers. Thus, it can be used for tourism. "We are considering that option too," the officer said.
 
 The cost of building a solar ferry is about 3 crore, thrice the cost of ferries currently plying in Goa. Also, the ferry is designed differently, as it takes into account the comfort of passengers 
 
 
