BENGALURU:   is trying to use technology to improve farm productivity and ensure better prices for farmers. Among other steps, it is encouraging startups that work on technologies that cut out middlemen in agricultural marketing and provide real-time weather and other data that can help improve food production.

 “We are seeing a huge technology gap in production and marketing. Conventional methodologies are hurting the sector,” said agriculture minister Krishna Byre Gowda. Cropin, a seven-year-old startup based in Bengaluru, provides weather data and agriculture solutions directly to the farmer producer organisations (FPOs). The project was started on a pilot basis in two districts of the state. “We had a successful experiment, and are now utilizing the same mechanism in another two districts of  ,” said Cropin co-founder Kunal Prasad. On the marketing side, the state government expects big players to come up with ideas and platforms to provide fair remuneration to farmers and weed out middlemen.
 
 The founder of Mandi Traders, Edwin Varghese, who has been at the forefront of technology to market agricultural products, believes there is a lot of opportunity in assuring farmers stability in sales.
 
 “What is most required is educating and reaching out to farmers with the platforms available. We have popularized our platform particularly among non-government organizations (NGOs) and many college students,” said Varghese.
 
 But both Prasad and Varghese were disappointed with the government support they have received. Prasad said change in the personnel at the agriculture department has forced it to go back to the drawing board before expanding into other districts of the state. Varghese said he hasn’t received much support from the government in popularizing his platform.
 
 But Gowda ruled out any red tapeism. He said the government is in talks with the   (NCBS) for starting a centre for excellence to boost agricultural startups and provide the requisite technology to increase farmers revenue and production capacity. “The  , hopefully, should provide much-needed hand-holding for startups and give companies a direct link with farmers,” the minister said.
 
 The government also recently entered into an understanding with ICRISAT and   to develop an agricultural commodity price forecasting model, with the objective of enabling farmers to better predict prices. For this season, the prediction model will be applied to the tur crop. The project expects to touch 10,000 farmers this year. ICRISAT and Microsoft are also building advisories for fertiliser and pesticide use, and for harvest and post-harvest practices, for each region, depending on its specificities.
 
 However, some farmers say that before pushing technology, the government must first address the crop-pricing concerns. K S Sudheer Kumar, president of the Rajya Raitha Sangha, said if the government provides them with basic necessities like scientific minimum support price (MSP) for their crops or implements the Swaminathan Commission Report on ensuring sustainability in farming systems, and enhancing quality and cost competitiveness of farms, then farmers themselves would adopt technology.
 
 
