MUMBAI: A junior Bollywood artist recently complained to the police that she was raped by a   on a desolate stretch in   East. Cops registered a case even as she kept altering her statements and could not point out the crime scene. Investigators later found out from doctors that she suffers from  .

 The 31-year-old lives in   with her mother. On January 11, she had gone to Vasai for a photo shoot in connection with a job offer that she had received from a middle eastern country. She was dropped to Vasai by her friend who is an autorickshaw driver. She checked into a lodge and stayed there for a day. 
 
 On January 12, she decided to head back when an argument broke out between her and the friend who had brought her to Vasai. Once he left, she hailed another auto.
 
 “The auto had reached till Dahisar East when she realized that she had just Rs 40 in cash left with her. The driver asked her to get off and take a train as he couldn’t ferry her without being paid the full fare. She then noticed a biker and requested him to give her a lift to the nearest railway station,” said a police officer.
 
 According to her initial statement, the biker grabbed her hand and took her to a decrepit building where she was raped. She later changed her statement and said she had been raped behind some bushes. Subsequently, she said that the accused’s wife had come to the crime scene and told her that the accused was a habitual offender. After the incident, she left for home and approached a public hospital the next day. They directed her to Dahisar police in whose jurisdiction the case had occurred.
 
 “When we took her for medical examination, doctors recognized her as she had taken treatment for schizphrenia at the same institution from time to time. When we took her with us to confirm the crime scene subsequently, she couldn’t locate it,” an officer said. Charges have been applied against an unknown man under section 376 of Indian Penal Code for  . “It would be a challenge to track down the culprit,” said an investigator, admitting it was befuddling.
 
