KANYAKUMARI: They stood several feet away warding off the stench with a cloth covering their nose as the badly decomposed and disfigured bodies of fishermen who got killed in Cyclone Ockhi were unloaded, but for   of Kozhikode, who handled 24 such bodies, it was business as usual. A ‘business’ without remuneration that is for the social worker who has handled more than 2,000 bodies involved in accidents and tragedies in 34 years. 

 According to C Jacob, 60, of Thoothoor in Kanyakumari district, the sight of the 51-year-old handling the remains of their dear ones with dignity, unmindful of their form or odour, came as a soothing touch for the distraught relatives. They were at the Government Medical College at Kozhikode where at least seven bodies of fishermen from  , retrieved from the sea off Kerala, had been kept. 
 
 Besides delicately dismounting the bodies from the boats that brought them to the shore, he also prepared and handed them over to the relatives after post-mortem. “Mother Teresa picked street children from the rags in Calcutta and nurtured them. Aziz collects decomposed bodies and gives them a fitting tribute,”, said Jacob who was at Kozhikode on Thursday to collect the body of his brother  , 62, a fisherman who was killed in Cyclone Ockhi.
 
 “He was with us from afternoon, readying the body for post-mortem. He then prepared and packed it and was with us till the ambulance left the hospital with the body at 11.30 pm. He refused to take money,” Jacob added. Talking to TOI over phone, Aziz said that giving the bodies the respect they deserved as a human being gave him satisfaction.
 
 The man from   panchayat, who does farming for a living and is a social worker by passion, says he has recovered and or handled 2,288 bodies in the region over the last 34 years. 
 
 He doesn’t take a pie for it and, unlike many mortuary labourers and people handling bodies, Aziz is a teetotaller. He is not perturbed by the sight of decomposed bodies as he has recovered them from all quarters — wells and ponds, noose around their neck or disfigured and mangled in accidents of different sorts. He assists the doctors at the post-mortem by stitching the bodies after the exercise, packing them neatly and seeing them off from the mortuary. If the body is unclaimed he gives it a decent burial.
 
 Ockhi is not the first incident where he has handled so many bodies. In 2001, he says he laid his hands on bodies of more than 40 people who were charred to death in a bus accident. Similarly, his services were also used during the Kadalundi train derailment in Kozhikode that claimed more than 50 lives. “At Kadalundi there were only mangled remains as the bodies got stuck under the bogies. I collected the parts and took them to the hospital,” he recalled.
 
 It all began when, as a 17-years-old, he jumped into the backwaters to rescue a three-year-old girl who accidentally fell into it during the rainy season. “However, she died in a few minutes of reaching land. I was depressed. But villagers appreciated me for doing my part and this gave me the spark to recover bodies too,” he said.
 
 Having studied only till 3rd standard, Aziz knows only  . But he understands what families of the deceased from other states tell him with tears in their eyes. His services have won him more than 600 mementos and certificates. “I am happy about the appreciation but I have a greater purpose of serving humanity, be it dead or alive,” he added.
 
 
