CHANDIGARH: There is nothing smart about the smart parking system introduced in Chandigarh amidst much fanfare last year. The municipal corporation and the private firm hired to run the parking lots have failed to implement the smart parking solution even nearly three months after parking rates were increased. In last three months, very little has changed the way parking lots have been managed in the past except for residents shelling out more money. 

 Overcrowding and haphazard parking are a common scene at all parking lots. The residents are of the view that the firm, which had bagged the contract for managing the parking lots for Rs 15 crore, appears to be more interested in recovering the money invested in the project. "Even if the parking lots are full to the capacity, the parking staff continues to allow motorists to come and it affects the movement of vehicles, leading to chaos," said  , a resident of Sector 8.
 
 For the current financial year, for two-wheelers the civic body increased the rate from Rs 5 (full day) to Rs 10 for the first four hours and Rs 10 for subsequent two hours. The rates had been increased for the first time since the concept of paid parking was introduced in the city in 2001. The civic body was forced to take the decision to bridge the ever mounting gap between its expenditure and revenue. With charges set to further increase from April, the residents have demanded to put the hike on hold till all parking lots start functioning as smart parking.
 
 Under the project, ticketing was to be done with electronic machine that enable the authorities to monitor real time. The firm is issuing electronic tickets, but the mechanism for real-time monitoring is yet to be put in place. The firm had also to developed a mobile application that will enable commuters to locate and book parking lots. The mobile app only allows motorists to make payment for using parking space. The firm is yet to install boom barriers on entry and exit of all the parking lots. Server room is also yet to be set up.
 
 Sandeep Bhora, project head of the firm, acknowledged that there were some operational problems that they were working to resolve. He assured that all parking lots would be equipped with smart features in the next couple of months. He, however, said that they would charging enhanced rates from April 1 as decided by the house. "The cost of running the parking lots is very high and will start charging enhanced rates from April 1 onwards," said Bhora.
 
 On overcrowding and haphazard parking, he said that they had been facing resistance from market associations if motorists were stopped in case parking lots were full.
 
 Lashing out at the civic body and the firm, general secretary of Federation of Sectors' Welfare Associations Chandigarh JS Gogia said the residents were being fleeced. "There is nothing smart about the parking lots and they are not being properly managed." 
 
 To save money, a large number of motorists park their vehicles outside the parking lots leading to traffic congestion and loss of revenue. Recently, the firm managing the parking lots had conducted a survey in which it was found that around 10,000 vehicles are daily parked outside the lots. The local police have failed to take action against those parking their cars on roadsides. 
 
 
