PATNA: Two days after attack on its   in Begusarai district,   on Sunday tried to corner the JD (U)-BJP coalition government by raising the issue of alleged “rise in the cases of atrocities on scheduled caste (SC) people” and “deterioration in law and order scenario.”

 “Law and order in the state has crumbled since the day Nitish Kumar realigned with the BJP and formed an ‘unusual alliance’ with the saffron party in July last year. The cases of attack on the members of mahadalit and backward communities have registered a rise in the last six months. People from SC community are being specially targeted and murdered. Situation has come down to such a level that even people’s representatives are not feeling secured,” RJD MLA and former minister Shiv Chandra Ram said here on Sunday while addressing the party’s sit-in programme which was organised to protest the Friday night attack on the house of Paswan.
 
 He said Paswan was attacked while he was sitting at his home. “The manner in which a gang of armed miscreants made a murderous attack on an elected representative exposed the Nitish government’s tall claims of good governance,” Ram said.
 
 Paswan was at his residence at Kumharso village in Begusarai district on Friday evening when two motorcycle-borne miscreants fired three bullets, police said. Though the MLA escaped unhurt, his supporter Naval Kishore Sahni, headmaster of a local school, who was seated beside him, received bullet injuries in his stomach and was admitted to a private hospital in the district.
 
 Besides Ram, hundreds of RJD workers, including six party MLAs, sat on the daylong sit-in programme in Gardanibagh area of the city and berated the JD (U)-BJP coalition government for allegedly “failing to maintain law and order”.
 
 Prominent among those who sat on the sit-in were RJD legislators Rajendra Ram, Prema Choudhary, Subedar Das, Vir Prakash, Samata Devi, Rekha Paswan, party’s women cell chief Abha Lata, former MLA Sudhanshu Shekhar Bhaskar and party’s EBC cell chief Rambali Singh Chandravanshi.
 
 Earlier on Saturday, Begusarai district police arrested three persons in connection with firing at the house of Upendra Paswan. Begusarai SP Aditya Kumar said before opening fire at the MLA's house, the miscreants had fired indiscriminately near a petrol pump at Kumharso, injuring one Sanjiv Kumar Mahto, a resident of Alauli village in Khagaria district.
 
 A day after the attack on Paswan, a delegation of the RJD seniors led by its state president Ram Chandra Purbey on Saturday met   DGP P K Thakur in the police headquarters here and submitted a memorandum alleging that the party's legislators were being attacked “at the behest of our detractors who are wary of the public support the RJD enjoys.”
 
 The delegation also demanded a bullet-proof car along with escort vehicles and adequate deployment of security personnel for the leader of opposition in Assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who is scheduled to begin his statewide “Nyay yatra” from February 12. 
 
 
