CHENNAI: For both   and his franchise  , the current edition of the   didn’t live up to expectations. While RCB had to exit after the league stage and prolong their search for an elusive IPL title, the Tamil Nadu allrounder was confined to four wickets in seven matches. After making telling contributions for Rising Pune Supergiant in his debut IPL last year and winning the Man of the Series for India in the Nidahas Trophy in March, the 18-year-old would have perhaps been hoping to play a more prominent role for the Virat Kohli-led franchise.

 
 
 
 Washington, though, has taken it in his stride and insists there was a lot to take away from the last two months. “The experience was very good. To be honest, playing or not playing depends on the selection group. There are a lot of things involved when it comes to making the playing XI in IPL – four foreign players, team combination etc. It’s not disappointing at all. Whenever you play a long tournament like the IPL, there are a lot of things you learn irrespective of how you do,” he told TOI.
 
 With India set to tour United Kingdom next month for a full-fledged series starting with T20s against Ireland followed by ODIs and T20s against England, Washington will be hoping to put some of the things he has learned into use, having earned selection in both the ODI and T20 squads.
 
 “I have never played cricket in England before. The challenge will be to get the best out of myself in those conditions. I should not be looking to do things too differently. I just need to be mentally prepared in all aspects. If I can do that, I have the belief that results will go my way and I can succeed there,” he assessed.
 
 The upcoming tour will also be Washington’s first opportunity to be part of a full-strength Indian side with Kohli at the helm of affairs. Spending the past couple of months at RCB under the Indian skipper’s watch should stand the youngster in good stead.
 
 “It was amazing to play under Kohli. There are so many things to learn from the way he carries himself and the kind of intensity he brings. You cannot blink when you are playing with him. As captain, he gave me a lot of inputs in terms of strategies and tactics. It definitely helps being around senior players if you are up for it and keen to learn as much as possible. When I’m around stars like Kohli and Dhoni (with Pune last year and India), it gives me an added advantage to grasp things quickly.”
 
 Aside from Kohli, Washington also had the chance to share the dressing room with   at RCB. Having seen de Villiers strutting his stuff and winning games with his characteristic exuberance during their IPL stint, the South African legend’s international retirement came as a bolt from the blue for the TN lad too.
 
 “AB’s retirement has come as a shock. The way he moves around in the crease and in the field, anybody would want him to play for the next 3-4 years at least. Every player goes through certain things and they might want to take these tough decisions. Cricket will miss him.”
 
 
