In the latest episode of  , Amma asks   to talk to Shravan. He asks Shravan to trust him and tell him if Parmeet was the one who gave him the card. Shravan nods. Raman gets furious and asks him how could he trust Parmeet knowing how he was.

 
 Shravan apologises and says that he was in big money trouble and had to borrow from friends and doesn't know how to repay the loan. Raman offers to help and makes him promise to not make the same mistakes again. Shravan resists at first but Raman gives him the money and goes. As he goes, Shravan laughs and says it was easy to fool Raman.
 
 Ishita calls Neha and asks her about the recruitment letter and asks her to send a picture of the same. When Neha asks her the reason, Ishita lies and says she had some work. She soon gets a picture of the fake letter and says she had to inform Raman about the same.
 
 Mani calls Ishita and asks her to come immediately to discuss something important about Adi and Aaliya. Ishita gets ready to leave.
 
 Mani says that getting Adi and Aaliya was a big mistake. Ishita supports Adi and says that he was a part of their family and suggests that Aaliya go back. Aaliya agrees and says that she will talk to Adi. Mani agrees to it.
 
 Adi is talking to Roshni when Raman comes in and calls Adi. Roshni cries and leaves. Raman tells him to resolve his fight with Aaliya and not get involved in baseless fights. Ishita brings Aaliya home. Aaliya and Adi talk in private. As they go, Ishita shows Raman the fake letterheads and informs him about the fraud. Raman is shocked to know this and says that he did not send any letter to Neha. 
 
 Adi tells Aaliya that he won't talk to her till the time she apologises to Roshni and starts trusting him.
 
 Ishita and Raman worry about the fraud letters and try to find a solution. Raman feels that somebody was taking advantage of his health situation. They decide to go talk to Arushi about the same.
 
 Roshni comes home and talks to Aaliya and says that she had to lie to the police as they had no other option. Aaliya confronts her and asks her about the wedding photo. She warns her to stay away from Adi. Roshni goes away.
 
 Arushi opens the door to find Raman and Ishita waiting. Ishita asks her to listen to them once as they wanted to help. Raman explains to her Sonakshi' situation and apologises, saying that the culprit needed to be punished. They ask her to help so that they can help her get justice.
 
