HYDERABAD: With a spurt in fire incidents with onset of summer, Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) exposed unpreparedness of the fire department in Hyderabad and the rest of the state. According to   report released on Thursday, against the requirement of 2,596 fire stations for  , the state has only 96 fire stations, a shortfall of 96 per cent. 

 "There was no perceptible improvement in setting up new fire stations and provision of infrastructure facilities and equipment in fire stations. As per norms, there should be one fire station for 10 sq km radius for towns and one for 50 sq km radius in rural and open areas. As per this norm, the requirement of fire stations in state would work out to 2,596. Against this, there are only 96 fire stations, a massive shortfall of 96% in the state to cover an area of 1.15 lakh sq km," the report said.
 
 
  
 
 After formation of Telangana, director-general of fire services periodically submitted proposals to government for new fire stations in the state. However, only six new fire stations were sanctioned by the government in this period, CAG report said. Of these, only two were put into operation and remaining four stations were not yet operationalised as of October 2017, it said.
 
 Apart from fire stations, there is a shortfall of fire tenders as well, said CAG. As per requirement of one fire tender for every 50,000 population and one rescue van for 3 lakh population with another rescue van for another 10 lakh population in three sampled divisions, only 72 fire tenders were available (77% less) against the total requirement of 312 fire tenders. Only two rescue vans were available against the requirement of 17, it said.
 
 CAG also castigated the fire department for the time taken to respond to fire calls. "  has recommended a maximum response time of five minutes for urban areas and 20 minutes for rural areas. But in the sample survey by reviewing 62 major and serious fire incidents 117 in urban areas, the response time is 19 (31%) for incidents within prescribed norms (below 5 minutes). And in remaining 43 cases, response time ranged between 6 and 93 minutes ( ).
 
 In rural areas, in 73 fire incidents reviewed by the audit, the response time was within prescribed norms (below 20 minutes) in 29 (40%) incidents. In remaining 44 cases, the response time ranged from 21 minutes to 158 minutes," the CAG said. It also said old vehicles are also causing delay in reaching the spots.
 
 Pointing to other shortcomings, CAG said as many as 35 of total 96 fire stations in state do not have any water sources in premises such as borewells and electric motors. CAG report said many norms recommended by the   (SFAC) were not being followed by the state government and state disaster response and fire services department. The report said 21 fire stations were drawing water from canals, irrigation channels located up to eight km away from the fire stations.
 
 
