THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With the state coffers half empty, the government has revised the expenditure norms to be followed by government departments, public sector units, board-corporations and grant-in-aid institutions, including universities.

 As per the revised financial consolidation issued by the state  ,   should be created after necessary studies and if the posts thus arise could be filled through redeployment that option should be resorted to.
  
  
 The order said the employees in government departments, public sector units, boards, corporations, grant-in-aid institutions, autonomous organizations and university staff should try to avoid air travels to the maximum possible extent. Wherever video conferencing facility could be utilized, such option should be explored.
 
 The government has cut down the mobile phone bill reimbursement ceiling to Rs 1,000 from Rs 1,500. Officials were also encouraged to use mobile phones, instead of land phones to cut down the cost. The ceiling for officials using pre-paid mobiles would be Rs 440 per month.
 
 The order instructed officials against sanctioning new grant-in-aid institutions. Even if such sanctioning is done, it should be done after detailed study and reviews. 
 
 Only department heads, police, local body chairpersons, heads of grant-in-aid institutions are allowed to purchase vehicles. Officials seeking permission for air travel should obtain prior permission from the government. Files seeking permission for air travel should be submitted four weeks before the travel date. Approval of chief minister and chief secretary would be mandatory for giving clearance to officials seeking permission for air travel.
 
 The order issued by finance principal secretary   asked all departments, PSUs, corporations, universities and grant-in-aid institutions to keep e-registry of the vehicles available with them. Instead of purchasing new vehicles, such departments and institutions should avail vehicles on lease. Lease should be for three to five years. The lease amount should be inclusive of the service of the vehicle driver and its maintenance. The total price of the lease amount should not be above Rs 14 lakh.
 
 
