TIRUPUR: The Dyers Association of   (DAT) has written to the chief minister alleging that textile dyeing units outside Tirupur district were not following the zero liquid discharge (ZLD) norm, which give them an edge over their competitors here.

 Coming at a time when the business is slow in the district, the letter does not explicitly indicate the ‘violators’. But, industry sources say the letter is pointing to the illegal dyeing units along Cauvery in Erode and   districts. 
 
 “Many units were established on the banks of Cauvery in the areas like Komarapalayam, Pallipalayam and Kokkarayanpettai. It would be easy for them to release the effluents into the river without even conducting the primary treatment. They would face problem when the river is dry for four months in a year,” said a managing director of a dyeing unit in the dollar city. 
 
 “We received reports that these units are discharging untreated dyeing effluents into the river during night. But the Tamil Nadu pollution control board (Tnpcb) fails to take action against them,” he added.
 
 “We are spending 25 paisa per litre for treating coloured water which would totally cost Rs 25 for a kilogram of fabric. But the unauthorised units on Cauvery banks need not worry as they do not follow the ZLD norm. By cutting cost, they could attract garment manufacturers from here,” said an owner of another dyeing unit.
 
 “We have already lost a lot of businesses to such units in neighbouring districts as well as in   in Karnataka. It has become a double blow as the industry was already facing constrains since the implementation of GST,” he added.
 
 When contacted, Tnpcb divisional environmental engineer (Komarapalayam) D   told TOI that, “About 250 dyeing units were functioning here, of which, 150 were registered. We have sealed 62 unauthorised units which had violated the norms.”
 
 She said the government was also taking steps to establish three common effluent treatment plants. “Komarapalayam zone of Tnpcb was recently formed to curb the the environmental violation by the dyeing units,” she added. 
 
 According to industry sources, 400 dyeing units were functioning in Erode and Namakkal districts, and of which 40% did not implemented the ZLD norm. 
 
 
