NAGPUR:   district collector Shekhar Singh has ordered a magisterial inquiry into the encounters of Kasnasur-Rela-Boriya and Nainer village as per the provision under section 176 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). Totally, 40   were shot dead on April 22 (34) and 23 (6). The separate inquiries will be conducted by sub divisional magistrates (SDM) of Etapalli and Aheri. 

 Though it’s a routine process, the probe order gains significance as there have been a barrage of allegations against the security forces of killing innocent villagers to poisoning their meals to sedate the cadres.
 
 The state police department scripted history by eliminating 34 rebels in Kasnasur — the highest ever since the Naxalism problem cropped up. The cops are also gearing up for any retaliatory action as the Maoists have called for a bandh on Friday.
 
 “The SDMs are expected to file their reports at the earliest. The task is laborious as they will have to take down statements of eyewitnesses and other concerned persons,” said Singh.
 
 Meanwhile, Gadchiroli SP Abhinav Deshmukh said searches in the Indravati river has been discontinued temporarily but will resume with the help of the forest department. “We had engaged boats and magnets to search for bodies and weapons in the river beds. The chances of finding bodies are quite less now but weapons might still be there,” he said. 
 
 Deshmukh said police forces are wary about conducting searches in the river due to the presence of four crocodiles on the stretch. He dispelled rumours of a body present at Jichhgaon village.
 
 The cops have received the post-mortem reports of 10 bodies from the Gadchiroli District Hospital. “The report says some deaths occurred due to multiple organ failure following the bullet injuries and some due to drowning,” said Deshmukh.
 
 It’s also learnt that a felicitation programme has been organized in the first week of May for the C-60 commandos who were involved in the encounter. “We will informally announce some reward for the commandos. The formal announcements would be made only after the outcome of the magisterial inquiries are completed,” said Deshmukh. 
 
 
