BENGALURU: ‘Digital’ will be the buzzword during the upcoming assembly polls in Karnataka: The   ( ) will introduce a slew of initiatives, including the use of voter-verified paper trail audit (VVPAT) machines, a digital security net and a geographic information system (GIS) called Digital Atlas for planning, implementing and monitoring the poll process in real time.

 “An integrated information technology system, based on the pilot RoNET system that was implemented in the   elections, will be used for the first time in Karnataka. It works across the mobile, web and SMS platforms and is designed to ensure efficient, transparent, smooth and free and fair elections,’’ deputy election commissioner Umesh Sinha said on Wednesday, wrapping up the two-day review meeting on the poll preparedness in Karnataka.
 
 The Digital Atlas application, part of the RoNET system, will make it easier for the commission to manage the Karnataka elections. “We will get a bird’s-eye view of each and every polling booth and constituency through webcasting,” Sinha said. The Android application will also enable smartphone users to keep tabs on their polling booths.
 
 Deputy election commissioner Sandeep Saxena said five other Android mobile apps under the system will help officials in maintaining law and order, streamlining functioning of presiding and polling officers and checking crime.
 
 Other information technology systems developed by EC include Samadhan, a forum to address the complaints received by the commission during, before and after the poll process, and Suvidha, the single-window clearance system for political parties seeking permission to use helicopters and posters among other things.
 
 
 
 
 Another app called ‘know your booth’ was launched on Wednesday to simplify the process for voters and encourage more and more citizens to exercise their franchise. Electors who want to know at which polling station they have to cast their votes can get the details on www.ceokarnataka.nic.in or download the app on their smartphones, said Karnataka chief electoral officer Sanjiv Kumar.
 
 Alternatively, voters can send SMSes with details of their Electors’ Photo Identity Card (EPIC) number to 9731979899, to know the assembly constituency, polling station address and other details, by typing ‘KAEPIC space ID card number’. 
 
 The state government has been asked to launch a digital campaign through social media, in addition to other traditional methods, to spread awareness and urge youngsters to vote. “Karnataka has a healthy voting percentage of 71%. We are hoping to improve it considerably this time,” Sinha said.
 
 
 
 
 EC is likely to extend the date for enrolment of eligible voters in the electoral rolls. Umesh Sinha said political parties have submitted a representation seeking extension of the date, January 12, and they are positively considering it.
 
 Voters can enrol either online or offline. Sinha said the final electoral rolls would be published on February 20, but names of those who have filled online forms seeking inclusion in the list will be added to the rolls till nomination papers are filed by candidates. As of now, there are 4.90 crore voters in the state’s 224 assembly constituencies. 
 
 
