NEW DELHI: A day before Aam Aadmi Party’s political affairs committee is likely to meet to decide on the party’s   nominees, three names did the rounds as possible choices. Of these, two are from outside the party. 

 Prominent chartered accountant and former president of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India N D Gupta, businessman and social activist Sushil Gupta were the outsiders while party member   is the third person. 
 
 Sushil Gupta is a billionaire who works in the education and health sectors. But he likes to call himself an agriculturist and social activist. In 2013, he had contested the assembly elections on a Congress ticket from Moti Nagar. In his affidavit to the Election Commission, he had said his total assets were valued at Rs 164 crore. He recently resigned from Congress.
 
 When asked about it, Gupta said he has learnt about it but hasn’t received any confirmation. 
 
 N D Gupta, on the other hand, is considered an expert on GST and has authored several books on accountancy and business. 
 
 Sources said the party drew up a list of 18 prominent names from various fields, but many of them turned down AAP’s offer on various grounds. 
 
 Sources also said that   had also explored the possibility of picking three names from among the top ranks of the party, but except for Sanjay Singh, consensus couldn’t be reached on the names of others. The name of Kumar Vishwas hasn’t figured in it yet even though he had made his wishes known earlier. 
 
 The names of Sushil Gupta and N D Gupta were also opposed by some ground-level AAP workers on social media on Tuesday. But CM Arvind Kejriwal, who returned from the Andamans on Tuesday, has called a meeting with all MLAs on Wednesday. It’s likely that he would explain the situation to his legislators to try and convince them before the matter is taken up by PAC. 
 
 Rajya Sabha elections would be held on January 16, and AAP is set to win all the three RS seats currently represented by Congress since it has an over-whelming majority in the 70-member assembly.
 
 
