Swachh Bharat Mission has gone for a toss on the train tracks passing through Pune city with dumping of garbage and open defecation continuing unabated. This is not only causing much damage to the tracks but is also putting much stress on the Railway coffers to keep the lines clean.

 Statistics available with the drinking water and sanitation ministry reveal that the movement led to the construction of 6,00,84,116 toilets since October 2, 2014 and 4,464 villages across 306 districts have become free of open defecation. Maharashtra is among 10 states that has achieved the open-defecation-free tag.
 
 The Pune and   civic bodies have constructed 25,000 and 8,600 individual toilets, respectively, at slums. But a large number of people continue to dump garbage and openly defecate on or along the tracks.
 
 A visit to railway stations shows that the passengers continue to spit, dump ‘pan masala’ sachets, cigarette butts, match sticks, chocolate wrappers, empty food packets and waste papers on the tracks.
 
 Financial expenses of the   in the given situation have increased (
 ). Divisional railway manager   said, “The municipal corporations are supposed to collect garbage from the slums, but people continue to dump waste and defecate on the train tracks. We are facing difficulties in maintaining the tracks. It has become an endless maintenance for us as even fittings from public toilets are being stolen.”
 
 Passenger   said, “The government has constructed toilets to stop open defecation. But when I travel by trains in the morning, it’s a shame to see a large number of people defecating in the open along the tracks. Trains are often delayed because of unabated dumping of garbage.”
 
 Former corporator Jaideo Randhawe said, “There are no complaints of open defecation on tracks from the four slums adjacent to the tracks between Koregaon Park and Kawdewadi because PMC has constructed individual toilets. But there are complaints of not cleaning up the garbage. Earlier, the slum dwellers dumped garbage in a nullah linked to Mutha at Yerawada. PMC cleans up the nullah partly, but waste flows, gets clogged below the tracks and enters into the slums.”
 
  
  
 
