PATNA: One Akash Kumar (19) allegedly committed suicide during video chat on WhatsApp with his girlfriend at 3am on Monday. The boy shot himself in his head using a 9mm country-made semi-automatic pistol at his residence in Saichak under the Beur police station area in the state capital.

 Police sources said Akash was chatting on a video call with his girlfriend, a Class IX student. She lives in  , which is also under the Beur police station area. The youth had failed in Intermediate examination last year and was associated with one of the biker gangs in Patna.
 
 Sources said the pistol used in suicide, a loaded magazine, a pellet and the cellphone through which the youth was chatting with the girl were seized from the spot. “The girl told the police that Akash cocked the pistol during live video chat. She asked him to remove it and take out the magazine,” police said.
 
 “Akash’s father   Rai was against his relationship with the girl as her father had a criminal background,” sources said. Sanjay had also scolded Akash a couple of days back and asked him to marry a girl of his choice. He had also used foul language against him and that probably had hurt the youth emotionally, police sources said and added even the girl was scolded by her parents a couple of times for her relation with Akash.
 
 “Akash narrated everything to his girlfriend and requested her to come live on video call to see her for one last time,” sources said. The boy told the girl that her family members won’t bother her after his suicide.
 
 “Keeping the cellphone on his legs covered with a blanket, Akash shot himself while resting on his back on the bed,” sources said. They said the girl tried to contact Akash’s cousin   immediately when he stopped responding on the video call. “Chandan somehow entered through the terrace at 5am and found him dead,” police said, adding the body was handed over to the family members after autopsy.
 
 Beur police station SHO Alok Kumar said the girl’s statement was recorded. “Akash’s father is a property dealer. He has lodged an FIR against unknown persons for killing his son. However, it seems highly impossible as the door was locked from inside,” the SHO said, adding forensic experts also gathered samples from the spot.
 
 
