WEST MIDNPORE/KOLKATA: There’s a tantalizing whiff of yellow-and-white in an area that, until a few years ago, was Red all over. Once a hotbed of Maoist activity, the forest of   — locally known as Jhitka — is back in the news again. An attack on villagers’ livestock, including three fullgrown cows and a calf, in the last week and pugmarks in the forest and fringe villages like Amlia, Pardiha and   have sparked rumours of a tiger roaming this Maoist zone.

 
  
 
 On Tuesday, researchers from Kolkata placed five pairs of camera traps at three spots in the forest to decode the mystery. “Going by the pugmarks, it looks like a big felid (mammal of a cat family),” said Ratul Saha, WWF-India’s landscape coordinator in the Sunderbans, whose team had earlier conducted an extensive camera trap study in the mangroves. “We have placed cameras in the forest and will check those between March 1and March 5. We hope the mystery will be solved soon,” he added.
 
 “We had initially thought it was a hyena or jungle cat,” said divisional forest officer Rabindranath Saha. “However, after seeing the pugmarks and nature of the recent kills, we suspect it is a big cat — either a tiger or a big leopard.”
 
 Neither a tiger nor a leopard, a source said, has ever been reported from this region. Chief wildlife warden   said more camera traps have been dispatched to Lalgarh from the Sunderbans. “Only the cameras can clear the air now,” he added.
 
 While the nearest tiger habitat from Lalgarh is Odisha’s  , more than 200km away, experts said tigers had earlier crossed similar distances in central India. State wildlife advisory board member   said if it was really a tiger from Simlipal, it would have crossed at least two big rivers (Subarnarekha and  ) and a highway (NH-6), apart from human habitation, to reach Lalgarh from the Nayagram side. “The designated forest corridors between Lalgarh and Simlipal are fragmented now because of mining activity,” he said.
 
 Another route that Dalma elephants often take to reach Lalgarh from the Jharkhand side is through the forest patches of Belpahari and Goaltore. “Since there are no tigers in Dalma, and if we assume the tiger has come from Simlipal via this route, it would have to cross over to Jharkhand from Odisha using the last remaining forest corridors between the states,” said an expert.
 
 So, why would a Simlipal tiger want to move? “There’s good tiger habitat in and around Simlipal and there’s no reason for them to disperse, but I won’t rule out the possibility,” said  , senior scientist,  . The 2014 all-India tiger estimation exercise had camera-trapped only five big cats in Simlipal National Park, but a later census by the Odiaha government had pegged the total number at 26.
 
 The forest department has also lodged an FIR, mainly to stop spreading rumours about atiger in the area, which is triggering panic among villagers.
 
 
