TIRUNELVELI: Confusion among commuters and bus conductors and heated exchange of words were a common sight on buses plying in  ,   and Kanyakumari districts on Saturday following the steep hike in ticket prices announced by the government on Friday. Thousands of passengers from this region were in for a shock as the hike came into effect with hardly any notice. The impact would be felt more from Monday when schools and work resume in full swing after the weekend.

 Many people from Tirunelveli travel to Nagercoil and Tuticorin everyday for work. On the other hand, thousands shuttling between Nagercoil to   and Thiruvananthapuram were also affected. “This will force us to shell out a few hundred rupees every month and add to our expenses,” said M Vasanthi, a private school teacher who travels between Tirunelveli and Tenkasi everyday.
 
 “During the last revision six years ago, the government said it would help maintain buses better. But nothing has changed as we travel in the same poorly maintained buses. Hope it changes this time,” said M  , a daily commuter between Tirunelveli and Nagercoil.
 
 Bus drivers and conductors are also not in favour of the upward revision of fares by 40 to 60% and said that they will have to face the heat. 
 
 Fear has also gripped the long distance travellers, as omni buses who usually charge more than government buses and fleece passengers during extended weekends and holidays by charging manifold more would also increase their fares. “They (omni bus operators) have always been waiting for a chance to fleece. I won’t be surprised if they escalate the fares from the three-day extended weekend for Republic Day,” said R Vijayakumar of Chennai.
 
 Meanwhile, Kanyakumari District Railway Users Association has expressed confidence that more local commuters would avail train services as they are cheaper and faster than buses. “Since crowds will increase, railways should operate more passenger and superfast trains. This could begin with the extension of trains to nearby towns and cities. It will also increase railway’s revenue,” said association secretary, P Edward Jeni.
 
 
 
 
