Nagpur: Striker   stole the show with for   a hat-trick at  . He ran faster, dodged smartly and executed the moves fabulously to lead his team to the   title on Tuesday.

 Mihir, who was praised by coach-cum-owner of Big Ben Atmaram Pande for his performance in the tournament, struck a goal before lemon break and added two more as Big Ben Juniors beat Times FC 3-1 in the final.
 
 “Mihir has been consistent in the tournament and his performance helped us win the title,” Pande, who is a happy man now as Big Ben Club has added two NDFA titles within 13 months, said.
 
 Last year, Big Ben Club, which was formed in 1991, clinched Super Division title and qualified for the Elite Division League.
 
 Pande, who has been working hard since more than two decades at University ground, is elated to have the second title of the year. “Earlier this season we have also won Under-14 tournament held at Ram Nagar. The consistent efforts are bearing fruits and it really feels good,” Pande added.
 
 “I would like to thank the coaching staff including Atul Neware, Naeeem Akhtar, Siddharth Kale and Ajay Jichkar. The coaches have been very particular in practice and take out the best out from the players,” Pande said.
 
 The good work of coaches reflected in the final . After both the team challenged with equal venom for initial half-hour, Mihir shifted the balance of the match with a clever finish in the 35th minute and made it 1-0.
 
 However, the joy was short-lived as Times ’ Aditya Labhare drew the parity just before heading to the lemon break in the injury time.
 
 After the change of ends, Mihir kept rolling like champ. Within five minutes of taking-up the field, he gave Big Big Juniors an advantage by making it 2-1.
 
 It was followed by a Times’ attacking tactics. They were coming hard in search of an equalizer but Big Ben defenders stalled each of their attacks. Later, when TImes missed a chance, Mihir got into action and completed a hat-trick, and put the final nail in the Times coffin.
 
 During the prize distribution ceremony, Mukul Verma of JSW was the chief guest. Harish Vora, Iqbal Kashmiri, Eugene Norbert, Salim Baig, Stanley Gregory, Satayanarayan Jerpot, Khalid and Abid Ali were prominently present. The winner walked away with a prize money of 7500 and a trophy. BTS team received a runners-up trophy and 5000 cash award.
 
 
 
 
 Big Ben Junior FC 3 (Mihir Baghele 35th, 50th and 63rd min) bt Times FC (Aditya Labhare 45+2) 1
 
 
