Madurai: It is one thing to complain about absence of traffic signals and another to ignore them altogether as it happens at the Mudakkusalai and Palam Station road signals. At both these signals vehicles seem to turn a blind eye to the red light and speed on much to the consternation of many road users, especially new comers to the city.

 The traffic coming from Kalpalam Bridge towards the Y-shaped intersection at the Palam Station Road signal does not tend to stop as the usual traffic from Sellur will be scanty most of the time making the road users jump the red light. Three years ago, traffic was permitted on the stretch from the opposite direction too and road users had to exercise caution. After it turned one-way, there has not been much control despite a traffic cop being stationed in the vicinity most of the time.
 
 Mudakkusalai signal is a relatively new one for the road users to get accustomed to, as they have to follow their own intuition while taking diversion as the road branches towards Theni and Kochadai here. Here, they have to adjust naturally according to the opposite traffic. Though signal was properly established at this junction two months ago, the habitual action has not stopped.
 
 “Not many take notice of the signal at Mudakkusalai because we have been using it without signals for time immemorial. Of late, traffic has increased many folds at this junction. Whenever a traffic policeman or woman is posted, there is some discipline. So the police should post traffic police personnel here for a few months till there is some discipline among the road users,” said S Lakshmirathan, a resident of Achampathu.
 
 Deputy commissioner, traffic, Arun Balagopalan said that the department would take note of the situation at Mudakkusalai and take measures. Palam Station road has been an issue for a while because the road was quite big and there were frequent cases of signal jumping since there was not much of traffic from Sellur side, said Arun. 
 
 “We have been sensitising public about road rules and urging them to abide by signal rules. The changes are happening gradually,” he added.
 
 
