LUDHIANA: The result of entrance   for the Meritorious School has come as a shocker for the city, as out of 989 students who had appeared for the exam, only 463 have managed to qualify. With 526 students having failed to qualify, the percentage of students eligible for counselling is just 46.81%. The entrance exam for 500 seats of Class XI of Senior Secondary Residential School for Meritorious Students, Ludhiana, was conducted on May 21, the result of which was declared on Friday, leaving officials in shock.

 Importantly, students of Ludhiana-based government schools — who have recently cleared Class X — appeared in the exam for three subjects — Science, English, and Mathematics. The questions are also taken from the syllabus of Class X. Interestingly, the students who have recently cleared Class X have failed to qualify for the Meritorious School.
 
 Out of the 500 seats for Class XI, 300 seats are for non-medical, 100 for commerce, and 100 for medical streams. In non-medical, 180 seats are reserved for girls, while 50 each in commerce and medical stream too are reserved for them. A total of 1,104 students had applied for the entrance exam, but 115 were absent on the exam day. Now, the school faces another challenge on June 14, as they do not know how many students will actually turn up for the counselling session. School principal   said: “The government has given an opportunity to students of government schools. However, many could not avail of it. They might have not understood the concept.”
 
 Retired former principal of Meritorious School,  , said: “Initially, only meritorious students who obtained 80% and above marks were eligible to appear for the exam. However, this time students with marks above 55% too were allowed to appear for the exam. So, such a poor result was expected. The government should remove the tag of ‘meritorious’ from the school’s name, or should make it like other government schools, as it has failed to achieve the objective of preparing students of government schools for competitive entrance exams, like that of IITs and IIMs.” 
 
 
