KOLKATA: The state government has proposed the East-West Metro line be extended to the airport to link all the four major transportation hubs in the city. If the Rs 1,000-crore proposal does go through, it will be a game-changer for the city that has till now survived a paralytic collapse thanks to the North-South metro line.

 Originally proposed between Howrah Maidan and   V connecting Howrah Station, Esplanade and Sealdah Station, Railways have already approved an extension till Haldiram on VIP Road. The state now wants it to go a further 2.4 km to terminate at Kolkata airport where two other Metro lines — Noapara-Airport-Barasat link and   — are set to converge.
 
 The proposal was discussed in earnest at a meeting chaired by Bengal’s chief secretary   at Nabanna on Wednesday. Among those present were senior officials of Metro Rail, Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation, project executing agency Rail Vikash Nigam Ltd and engieering consultancy firm RITES. The latter has already prepared the DPR for the extension of the   till VIP Road and will now do the feasibility study till the airport.
 
 Though the EW Metro line and the Garia Station-Airport line run parallel between Sector V and Haldiram with proposed interchange facilities at Wipro and City Centre II, extending the EW line to run alongside the other one till airport will not lead to duplication of infrastructure as commuters on the two lines will be divergent.
 
  
  
 While the Airport-Garia line is expected to primarily cater to commuters from the city’s north-eastern suburbs to south Kolkata, the EW line will not only cater to commuters but also be of use to travellers taking a flight, train or bus. “Trains for both Garia and Howrah Maidan could have originated at the airport without the need to construct separate lines had both lines been uniform. Unfortunately, EW is standard guage while all other city Metro lines, both existing and those under construction, are broad guage. So the rakes cannot be interchanged,” an official pointed out.
 
 
 
 
 If the extension proposal materialises, airport will also become a hub for three metro alignments like Esplanade where EW, North-South and Joka-Esplanade lines will interface.
 
 The under-construction Metro hub at the airport is located around 500 metres from the integrated terminal and will be linked by a tunnel with walkalators.
 
 The existing elevated station and tracks of Circular Railway will be dismantled to make way for the new station 13 metres underground. The facility will have two levels with a concourse and five platforms spread across approximately 6,000 sqm. While two sets of up and down tracks will be used for New Garia-Airport line and Noapara-Airport-Barasat link, the fifth line will be for a train originating at the airport and moving in either of these directions. If the EW line is extended, it is likely to terminate at an overhead station.
 
 During Friday’s meeting, the Railways also sought clearances along VIP Road for fast-track construction of the New Garia-Airport viaduct. A controversial flyover that is proposed between EM Bypass and the main arterial road in New Town also figured in the meeting.
 
