During the fest season in DU, the students unions fight to get the best sponsorships for their colleges. When the budget is allotted for the fest, a large amount goes to the star performance because the colleges want their fests to be talked about till the next fest season. And although that star performance at the finale is the highlight of the event, there are many small gigs by local bands that keep the energies of the students high till the last day of the fest.

  
  The band Sankraman at   
 
 Till last year, most of the local bands would perform only at the Battle Of Bands – one of the events at the fest – but keeping in mind the fact that people in general have started to prefer live music, the colleges now see many local bands taking the stage before the headlining gig. Though any band would normally perform for the same time as any established singer, they sometimes do not charge any fee because they get to showcase their talent in front of a large audience. So, it is a win-win situation for both the students’ union – since they don’t have to spend an enormous amount – and the bands. And while some colleges do this to encourage young talent, others are thankful to them for keeping the energy high during their fests.
 
  
  Sandeep Vyas of Rooh
 
 
 
 Members of the students’ union tell us that most of the members of the local bands are recent college graduates and performing at any college’s fest is a big feat for them. “We had invited a band along with the main artist for our fest Tarang. These bands either end up performing at small cafes or events that usually do not get them the recognition that they need. But when they perform at any college fest, they get the biggest platform. They make their own music, write their own lyrics and the level of exposure that they get any fest or college event is different from performing at any cafe. So, it is our way of providing them with the platform to exhibit their talent,” says Amita Yadav, president of Lady Shri Ram College for Women.
 Nayan Jhangiani, the media head of  , adds, “We also called a band along with the star performer and two DJs for our fest, Symphony. I think students also like the change, and for these artists, it is a big thing to have performed at any DU college.”
 
  
  Members of the band Tarkash at Kamala Nehru’s fest Ullas
 
 
 
 As the bands perform a day or two before the main event, students’ union members say that these bands are able to generate a hype among students. “On the first two days, we usually have society events and competitions for Nexus, our annual fest. These get over by the evening and the footfall increases during that time. That is the time when these artists really help. We called a band before the main artist for our fest because bands festivity ka mahaul banake rakhte hain. Woh bade artist jitna perform bhi karte hain, aur zyada paise bhi nahi lete, toh humein bhi fayda ho jata hai, aur unhe bhi platform mil jata hai,” says Prabal Khatri, president of Sri Venkateswara College.
 Mahima Vaid, president of Indraprastha College for Women (IP College) says that it is always interesting to have a new artist because they perform for the same time and entertain the crowd. “We are always open to the idea of calling a new band which can perform at Shruti, our fest, without charging much. Achha hi lagta hai agar koi perform kare artist ke jitna, woh bhi kam paiso mein,” she adds.
 While the budding artists do not charge anything in comparison to the main artist, there are some who do not charge a single penny. Prachi Agarwal, from Shaheed Rajguru College of Applied Sciences For Women, says, “When the bands get a bigger platform like a college fest, they do not even charge sometimes. We get some of the bands or such artists on complimentary basis from event management companies.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Navjot, a guitarist with the band The Forgotten Cure, tells us that their band has performed at   before and the college has always given new artists a great platform to perform. “We were contacted by some colleges this year as well to perform. The college-going crowd enjoys original compositions and they do not only wish to listen to Bollywood music. The first gig that we did at LSR was for free because it is the crowd that matters there,” he elaborates.
 Rohit Raj, manager of Sankraman band, which performed at Lakshmibai College’s fest recently, explains, “Our band headlined their fest this year. The response was great and we got so much recognition after performing there. The results were visible on our social media pages and we were also invited for bigger commercial gigs after that. Till some years ago, performances by new bands were a low-key affair, so nobody used to talk about it. But with the growing interest in live music, we are being invited to headline fests. For these local bands, they create music and they have the means to put it on digital platforms, but the audience that you get in   is immense. You don’t get that reach anywhere else, so the gigs that we do for colleges are cheaper comparatively.”
 
  
  Project Yugm at LSR’s fest
 
 
  
 
