MUMBAI: The   government, which has imposed a ban on plastic items, aims to re-lay 10,000 kms of roads using 50,000 tons of plastic waste in 5-6 years, sources in the public works department say. 

 The   has already re-laid 1,000 kms of roads using 5,000 tons of plastic waste in 2017-18. Maharashtra generates over 1,000 tons of plastic waste every day, so reusing the leftover of the last 35 years is going to be a mammoth task. PWD secretary C P   said contractors were allowed to take plastic waste from dump yards in towns within 35- 50 km of the road work sites. Women self-help groups in these towns helped the contractors in collecting the plastic waste and crushing them. “It has been proved that such a mixture is increasing the life of roads besides reducing the maintenance cost,” he said. 
 
  
  
 “The reuse of plastic is a positive move. But it will take a long time to reuse the entire leftover of the last three decades. We will have to find newer ways to reuse and dispose of the plastic waste lying in dumps and around human dwellings,” an official of the state pollution control board said. The state has a target of recarpeting 1,000 kms of roads using plastics every year. Sources in the PWD said the government, however, aims to re-lay 10,000 kms of roads using plastics in 5-6 years. 
 
 On the instructions of Prime Minister  , the state government had, in 2016, directed road contractors to mix plastic in tar on an experimental basis. Subsequently, the   wrote to the state PWD citing increase in strength of the road if the plastic is used in asphalt. “A majority of road works on state highways in and around municipal council and corporation areas has seen the use of plastic in asphalt in a large quantity,” PWD sources said. 
 
 The roads are checked every three months for quality. Experts said if urban civic bodies used the same method for re-laying roads, more plastic waste can be reused to avoid harm to the environment. "We wish the PWD trains all civic bodies in using plastic for re-laying of roads to end the plastic waste problem,” a road expert working with   said.
