KOLKATA: A team of scientists in Kolkata have found a safe and cost-effective nano drug that promises accurate treatment of neonatal jaundice. The drug combines nanoparticles extracted from manganese salt with citrus extract, like from lemon. This combination of manganese salt and citrus extract can break down bilirubin, providing a cure for hyperbilirubinemia in the newborn. 

 Developed by scientists at SN Bose National Centre for Basic Sciences, Kolkata (SNBNCBSK), the findings have been published in international journals, including ‘Nanomedicine London’. In January this year, the project made it to the top three finalists in the competition for nanotechnology discoveries in India held in New Delhi, a collaborative initiative under India and the US. “Once injected this nanodrug has the potential to bring the bilirubin back to normal within two-and-a-half hours. We have finished the trial on mice. We are now looking for sponsors so that we can start the clinical trial on humans,” said Professor  , who led the research team at SNBNCBSK. 
 
 
  
 Bilirubin is a yellow pigment found in bile, a fluid secreted by the liver. An abundance of it causes jaundice. At present, there is no medicine to treat neonatal jaundice. Doctors use either phototherapy or blood transfusion to treat the ailment that most newborns — specially pre-term babies — tend to develop. “Around 80% of pre-term babies develop jaundice. And if the bilirubin level of such newborns is not brought under control in time, they stand the risk of brain damage. Phototherapy is a safe procedure, apart from some short-term side effects like skin rashes, loose stools and dehydration. There is no drug to treat this condition now,” said Dr  , neonatology head at SSKM Hospital. 
 
 During the trial on mice, the investigators found the nanoparticles safe and its effects swift, precisely bringing down the bilirubin level within twoand- a-half hours. The medicine did not have any toxic reaction on the mice and affected no organs. “In fact, this nanodrug has the potential to treat two diseases. If injected, it can treat neonatal jaundice and if administered orally, it can treat hepatic fibrosis and heavy-metal toxicity. It is the only medicine that can directly degrade bilirubin inside the body,” said  , who presented the work in New Delhi under Pal’s supervision. The research team has been working on the project for over five years.
