GAYA:   syndicate at its important meeting held at the university headquarters on Wednesday constituted a three-member committee to inquire into alleged financial irregularities and appointment-related anomaly in vocational courses being run in the self-finance mode.

 More than six courses including B  , physiotherapy, hotel management and rural management etc are being run in the university in self-finance mode. The committee has been constituted following complaints of largescale bungling including illegal diversion of funds and violation of financial rules and non-observance of appointment norms.
 
 Confirming the constitution of the inquiry committee, VC Prof Qamar Ahsan said the committee comprises financial adviser RB Das, dean students welfare SRP Singh and director distance education  . “Effective follow up action will be taken on the findings of the inquiry committee,” he said.
 
 Sources say that university authorities have also requested the state vigilance investigation bureau to accelerate the pace of ongoing inquiry into the degree scam. As per reports, several hundred foreigners were awarded PhD degree by the university in blatant violation of rules including non-observance of eligibility criteria, field work, issuance of student visa etc.
 
 A sizeable number of recipients are said to have obtained degree without even visiting the university or even the country for that matter. Even non-teaching employees supervised PhD research in violation of the norms. Rules permit only professors, associate professors and assistant professors to supervise PhD research.
 
 Through another resolution, the university syndicate decided to deduct the number of days for which the university employees remained on strike in November and December 2017 from the accumulated earned leave of respective employees. Employees who do not have enough earned leave, will not be paid remuneration for the strike period.
 
 No payment will be made to contractual employees for the strike period.
 
 The syndicate has also endorsed the demand for Rs 225 crore for clearance of all outstanding arrears and post retirement claims of the university employees. Arrear non-payment remains the single largest source of litigation for the university. As of now, the university is party to more than 400 writ petitions and about 100 contempt cases.
 
 
