Every passing day, we see numerous instances of unhappy employees and disinterested workers, across all industries and sectors, whose primary problem rises from their incorrect selection of collegiate programmes. Adding that reality to the arrival of the season when college applications open, there's frantic chaos everywhere, with students scurrying to procure their entry into universities. In such a scenario, a query that’s bound to cross every applicant’s mind is that of their course selection. Although it is true that one can always go ahead and change his or her educational field after a diploma through further studies, the additional time and expenditure brought on by an unideal course selection is not an easily available commodity for all. So the importance of choosing a right course for colleges — and thereby an ideal career path for one’s life — cannot be emphasised enough. Here are a few factors that often get in the way, but most definitely cannot act as one’s deciding factors when making such a significant verdict: 

 
  As cinematic as the idea of tragically being forced into a field of disinterest because of parental pressure might sound, it is an all-too-real state of affairs for several students in our country. Be it out of genuine parental aspiration to offer a lifestyle to their children that would outdo their own, or a mere ambition to ensure that their children carry on the legacy of a family enterprise, several young applicants state their parents as the reason for the academic goals. “Letting your parents dictate your educational choices is quite a trap,” admits  , a student of Psychology who is now attempting for Medicine out of regard for his parents’ demands. “You might do so thinking that you owe them something for all that they have invested in you, but the regret and the confusion around your future that follows is not worth it.” 
 
  It often happens that by the time an individual turns eighteen or nineteen, the restrictions of living with one’s family (coupled with Western influences of children leaving home upon turning an adult) pushes them to pursue any method to live away from their home and to enjoy the freedom that comes with distance. However, the desperation to leave home frequently goads students into attending colleges of much lower regard or quality they would otherwise prefer. It is this compromise that must be avoided at all costs, and proper prioritisation offers a good solution to this conundrum. 
 
 
  Students occasionally have to face with the realities of the educational sector, wherein good courses don’t always go hand-in-hand with good colleges. “In such a scenario where you have to choose between a good college and a good course, never ever let your desire to graduate from a highly reputed institution stop you from going for the specialization and course that you actually wish to pursue,” advises Ayush Goel, a second-year Honours student of Commerce in   University. 
 
 
  An oft-mentioned and very commonly observed phenomena is that of peer choices influencing the decisions of students. If most of one’s friends opt for a particular stream, the implicit and underlying pressure to do the same overrides his or her actual inclination or skill. Furthermore, societal values being added to specific jobs and careers also make certain streams decidedly more appealing than others, skewing students’ decisions further. These pressures must ideally be ignored and avoided, since course choices made according to personal preferences are much likelier to translate into academic interest and rigour. 
 
 
  In a vastly changing world with several new domains and areas opening up for exploration regularly, it comes as no surprise that plenty of reputed colleges offer intriguing and unique courses that are presented to be very unique and exclusive. “Distracted by the promises and potential of such novel programmes, students can easily get tempted to give them a shot and see how things go. Although it might seem like a huge gamble and a rare occurrence — considering that several people screen one’s final collegiate decisions — I know many people who took up a course on a whim and who regret it immensely now because of how much it differs from their expectation. So good research and honest interest should always backup one’s choices,” states  , sophomore student at MES College Malleshwaram.
 
