Earlier you begin, greater the impact. That is what academics experts and principals believe and have started taking baby steps towards creating awareness in schools about  . They feel that students can take the learning home and help spread the word among parents and peers.

 From year-long campaigns to giving regular lessons on organ donation, schools are doing their bit to bring about a change. Recently, class VIII and IX students of SVPV Vidyalaya, Kandivli in Mumbai, recorded a 30-minute radio drama around the cause. “The theme of our annual day celebration last year was organ donation and, we have, time and again, invited doctors to speak about it. The skit is about a child who dies young and how his parents decide to donate his organs,” said Sangeeta Srivastava, school principal. The drama recorded on April 17, will be aired on AIR on Tuesday (May 8).
 
 
  
 
 “Our students have learnt about organ donation through various awareness sessions at the school. They make presentations on the issue during open houses, when we have all the parents visiting. The students showcase street plays at Malad station regularly,” said Sudha Shanbaug, principal, Children’s Academy, Malad. The school will host a 15-day awareness drive in August as a line-up to the World Organ Donation Day on the 13th.
 
 The Campion School in Fort has month-long activities planned for June. “We want to involve not just the students, but the entire family,” said principal Paul Machado. At the HVB Global Academy, Marine Drive, a cause is taken up every year and students made aware. This year, the cause is skin donation.
 
 Giving a push to the cause are the recently published class X textbooks for the Maharashtra state board. A chapter titled ‘Cell Biology and Biotechnology’ speaks to students about organ donation and how it can help save lives. The lesson reads: “Concepts like organ donation and body donation have emerged recently after realization that some organs can be used to save the life of other needful persons. A liberal view behind the concept of organ and body donation is that after death, our body should be useful to other needful persons so that their miserable life would become comfortable...”
 
 The book also provides links to WHO resources about organ donation and introduces them to the Transplantation Of Human Organs Act, 1994. And where schools haven’t made an effort, science teachers have taken up the cudgels. “We talk about organ donation to kids from class VII onwards while teaching them about organ systems,” said Neeta Vaz, a teacher from Malad.
 
 Meanwhile, academics are not too pleased with a 2013 circular of Mumbai University’s department of students’ welfare to make printing of pledge on students’ ID cards mandatory. The expectation was to have a one-liner saying ‘I am an organ donor’ or ‘I pledge to donate my organs’ on college ID cards.
 
 Principal of Jai Hind College, Ashok Wadia, said, “It should be voluntary. What if students’ families do not consent. We cannot force such pledges on cards.”
 
 
