CHANDIGARH: A marriage bureau in Sector 36 has been directed to pay Rs 82,000 for failing to find a match for a woman resident of Sector 70, Mohali, despite being paid for the services.

 
 
 According to Navpreet Kaur, Wedding Wish failed to arrange meetings and wrongly mentioned her profile on its website. She stated in her complaint to the consumer forum that she availed the services of the   after it projected to be “number one jodi maker” in the Tricity by making a payment of Rs 51,000. The marriage bureau was to provide 21 profiles of candidates with complete details, arrange meetings/conferences, and to accomplish the entire work within three to four months.
 
 However, instead of sending its own profiles, they sent profiles from newspapers, failed to arrange conferences meetings and wrongly mentioned the complainant’s profile on the site. The complainant wrote numerous emails to them airing her grievance, but to no avail.
 
 In its reply, the marriage bureau said as per the service agreement dated January 27, 2016, executed among the parties, it was bound to provide 21 profiles, but instead sent 37 profiles till date in her account out of goodwill gesture. It was urged that out of these profiles, the complainant rejected 14 of them. The bureau said 12 conferences were organised for her as per her preference and a meeting was also organised. The complainant had not given a green signal for finalising the match out of any of the 37 profiles forwarded to her, the bureau said.
 
 During the course of oral arguments, it was argued on behalf of marriage bureau that even now it was ready to send more profiles to the complainant so that she could find her perfect match.
 
 The forum, however, observed that the profiles provided were not of the level asked by the complainant, rather they pertained to different castes and background. On one occasion, the boy was interested in a working girl, which was not the particulars of the complainant. In another instance, the boy was working in Delhi, which was again against the requirement of the profile of the complainant.
 
 ‘Marriage bureau misled complainant’
 
 The forum concluded, “The marriage bureau tried to mislead the complainant in one way or the other by throwing useless profiles at her, which despite being in her possession she could not pick/ choose as they were not of her match.”
 
 “In the absence of suitable profiles, it was not possible for the complainant to estimate the suitability of the proposed boys by the agency for matrimonial purposes. Had the agency sent the profile of the boys with complete details to the complainant, the matter would have been different,” the forum added.
 
 The forum directed Wedding Wish to refund Rs 51,000 along with interest @ 9% per annum from the date of receipt. The agency was told to pay Rs 15,000 because of deficiency in service and causing mental and physical harassment and Rs 6,000 as cost of litigation.
 
