NEW DELHI: The home ministry, in a bid to crack down on funding of Left-wing extremists and ensure confiscation of their ill-gotten properties, has set up a multi-disciplinary group comprising officers of intelligence and investigative agencies of the Centre and affected state governments.

 
 The Central agencies represented in the group include  ,  ,  ,  , NIA, CBDT and CBI, while the state agencies are the police, state intelligence and CID. The agencies have been coordinating their actions and holding regular meetings. A home ministry officer on Monday said the actionable intelligence gathered through their “painstaking work” has achieved substantial success in tracking and choking the financial supply lines of Maoists, particularly in   and Jharkhand.
 
 In another measure, the home ministry has initiated the process for creation of a separate vertical in NIA for probing important cases relating to Left-wing extremism.
 
 According to sources, the Left-wing extremism movement in the country is financed through a network of dubious activities of its leaders that include collection of levies from private contractors executing government projects, mining contractors, transporters and small/medium entrepreneurs operating in Maoist-hit areas. Maoists also collect money from those engaged in illegal mining, illegal stone crushing and collection of ‘tendu patta’.
 
 An officer said that much of the collection by CPI(Maoist) is diverted towards “personal wealth of its leaders, whose children avail best of education and families live in comfort while the misled cadres toil away in the jungles in the name of a twisted ideology”.
 
 For instance, investigations have revealed that one Pradyuman Sharma, member of the Bihar-Jharkhand Special Area Committee (BJSAC) paid Rs 22 lakh as fees for admission of his niece to a private medical college in 2017. His colleague Sandeep Yadav allegedly exchanged Rs 15 lakh cash during the demonetisation drive, as per a disclosure made by a trader who facilitated the exchange.
 
 Incidentally, Yadav’s daughter had studied at a reputed private institute while his son is pursuing engineering. Another leader   was found to have paid Rs 12 lakh as fee for his brother’s engineering course.
 
  has registered four money-laundering cases against Pradyuman, Sandeep, Vinay Yadav and Musafir Sahni of CPI(Maoist), attached properties worth Rs 1.5 crore and 32 acres land, seized Rs 2.45 crore in cash, including Rs 1 crore during demonetisation, said a home ministry official.
 
 The good education ensured by Maoists for their kith and kin, an officer pointed out, stands in stark contrast to CPI(Maoist)’s practice of forcing young children to join their squads and strongly resisting development activities such as road construction and erecting mobile towers, etc.
 
