BENGALURU: Its predominantly rural pockets kiss Bengaluru’s IT hub, even as a part of Sarjapur and a bunch of industrial estates like Jigani and Attibele fall within its jurisdiction. Yet, Anekal, which has seen only Dalit MLAs in the last 12 terms as it is reserved for the Scheduled Castes from 1967, battles untouchability in several pockets with caste-based violence being commonplace.

 
 It is not the socially dominant Gowda and Reddy communities that are solely responsible for disharmony or the discrimination. The problem is rooted even within SC communities, with a divide between   and Right Hand communities.
 
 Yet, democratic spirit occasionally triumphs over hidebound identities. The lead contender this time, A Narayanaswamy of   (from the ‘Left’) had won four times before losing to B Shivanna of  , who belongs the ‘Right’, in 2013, despite 60,000-odd of the 80,000 Dalit voters here belonging to the Left Hand community.
 
  
  
 
 “People finally saw through Narayanaswamy, whose tenure had seen too many clashes and murders, while the MLA remained isolated enriching himself financially. Which is why even Dalits from the other side voted me in,” Shivanna says. However, Narayanaswamy counters the argument saying that the sentiments across the state had swayed away from BJP in 2013 and that Shivanna himself is corrupt.
 
 That the income-tax department conducted raids on Shivanna even before poll fervour peaked may lend credence to Narayanaswamy’s claims, but the fact that the department found nothing has yielded Shivanna some sympathy.
 
 Adur Prakash, a social activist, while saying that the fight will be very close, however, claims Shivanna may hold the edge because of his work. “He has made some progress in bringing power, housing and water facilities. Although there is a lot more that’s desired, people may pledge their support with him again because they’ve seen him do some work,” he says.
 
 Aside of this, Shivanna says the fact that there have been no murders in his tenure or major community clashes because he has been indiscriminate in dealing with people’s issues, will also aid him.
 
 D K Suresh, Bengaluru Rural MP and brother of Congress strongman  , is camping in Anekal and has taken it upon himself to get Shivanna elected. JD(S) has not fielded a candidate in Anekal, which it gave up to its partner  . Observers say BSP’s P Srinivasa may not be able to cause too many problems to Narayanaswamy or Shivanna. “If it was Gopal, BSP’s prominent leader in Anekal, they may have been able to make their presence felt, but it seems difficult now,” one of them said.
 
 The constituency has 40,000 Vokkaliga, 30,000 Kuruba, 20,000 Balija and about 15,000 Muslim voters.
 
