We humans have been encroaching their territory for adventure and ‘relaxation’ for long, despite the dangers lurking in the wilderness. 

 Who would have imagined that one day, animals will similarly decide to raid human habitats too? From a tiger-like animal that was spotted in a wedding video in Kozhikode, frequent sightings of wild snakes in Fort Kochi to a deer that explored a housing colony in Thiruvananthapuram, they are getting braver by the day. Reasons? We find out.
 
 
 
 During the World Wildlife Week in October, the forest department in Kochi had gone on record that an unprecedented number of wildlife species is now being spotted and rescued from urban localities. They cited the destruction of their habitat as the main reason for animals including reptiles straying into human habitations. Messages have also been doing the rounds on social media about how we might be able to spot more of our ‘wild friends’ in the upcoming summer, owing to drought.
 
 Malayattoor Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) A Ranjan says, “We get the most number of calls from people who spot pythons. There is a special rescue team for it now. It’s not that pythons or other varieties of snakes did not exist here before. They had green covers like sacred groves, which have gone. They don’t have many predators like mangoose or king cobra that would eat their eggs, and so, their population would be 20 times more than in the wild!” 
 Environmentalist C M Joy says, “The hills of Kizhakkambalam, Chottanikkara and Kakkanad are being mined for soil, to be transported into the heart of Kochi for construction. Along with the mud come the eggs and young ones of the snakes too. That’s one reason for their numbers going up.”
 Ranjan says that unlike in the past, people don’t kill wildlife species upon spotting them, nowadays. “Now, people know these animals are legally protected and hurting them can land them in jail. So, they inform us immediately and that’s another reason why these sightings have gone up.”
 
 According to Ranjan, some of the animals raid human settlements for food which may be available there. “For instance, if they like the taste of pineapple, elephants will return for it. Similarly, they will look for bananas, jackfruits and more.”
 
 Another commonly spotted ‘celeb’ is the peacock. “While it is believed that it indicates the arrival of a dry spell, a scientific confirmation cannot be given. Their numbers in the urban spaces are also increasing, and they are not harmed because of their religious significance,” Ranjan adds.
 
 
 
 The video of a deer darting over concrete fences in Varkala had recently gone viral on social media. D Rathish, Divisional Forest Officer of Thiruvananthapuram, explains, “Southern Kerala is not a habitat of spotted deer, like the one in the video. It can be found only in the North and also in certain border areas in North-West Kerala. We are investigating how this animal landed here.” CM Joy thinks that the deer could be someone’s pet. “There are instances when those like gypsy groups keep wild pets. Authorities are reluctant to penalise them. I am of the opinion that whoever flouts the law should be strictly penalised, to increase the awareness. There should be a phone number to share anonymous information on anyone who keeps wild animals as pets, privately.” Ranjan also says that the occasionally spotted monkeys are the ones abandoned by those who once kept them as domestic pets.
 
 
 
 Recently, the news of a lady spotting a tiger-like beast in Varkala had made headlines. Later, it was reported that the animal was only a ‘fishing cat.’ “They don’t harm human beings unless attacked, and have always been present in our wetlands and coastal areas,” says D Rathish, DFO, Thiruvananthapuram. “The light brown, cat-like animal which can be a metre in length and weigh upto 15 kgs when mature, looks exactly like a panther, with spots and a ringed tail. Fish is its main feed and it also eats hens and rodents. I had met the woman who spotted it out of the blue and was shocked out of her wits. We had also found a hen, which was its prey. 
 
 It had held the hen by its neck, in a different fashion than how leopards carry prey.” It’s called fishing cat as it fishes with its tail, he says.
 Meanwhile, the tiger-like creature spotted in the wedding video from Kundamangalam in Kozhikode can be a leopard cat, says range officer Imrose Navas. “It is found in our neighbourhood too, at times. We are yet to track it down.”
 
 While people also report spotting civets, they are not entertained much, says Ranjan. “Forests aren’t the natural habitats of civets, and we have had them amidst us in the past too. So, we can’t capture and let them out into the wilderness.”
 
 
 
 DFO Ranjan is of the opinion that there is a positive side to the current population of snakes. “There are a lot of rodents in our urban spaces. Unless we have the presence of snakes, their numbers will proliferate. Also, some studies are now going on about the need to have such species of animals amidst us.”
 At the same time, it is better that we don’t encourage wild animals to intrude further, by feeding them, officials say. “It’s against law too. People start feeding them for fun or out of sympathy, but then they can become a nuisance. If at all the reason for them to raid human settlements is for water or food, it’s better to just inform officials.”
 
 
