KOHIMA: Leader of the NDPP-BJP alliance, Neiphiu Rio, on Sunday met   governor PB Acharya and staked claim to form the government under the banner of People’s Democratic Alliance (PDA), amid threats by Naga People’s Front ( ) that it would withdraw support from the BJP-led government in  . 

 National Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) secretary general Abu Metha said PDA — comprising NDPP,  , JDU and Independents — was formed on Sunday for the formation of a new government under the leadership of Rio as CM. 
 
 The tally of PDA touched 32 — NDPP (18), BJP (12), JDU (1) and Independent 1. Nagaland has a 60-member House. Rio handed over letters of support from BJP, JDU and Independent legislators, to the governor. BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav, JDU’s G Kaito Aye and Independent Tongpang Ozukum were also present. 
 
 Quoting Nagaland governor Acharya, sources said Rio would be allowed to form the government as he had the majority. But there is no official communique from the Raj Bhavan, inviting Rio to form the government, so far. In the evening, Zeliang, along with the newly elected NPF members, also met the governor at the Raj Bhavan. 
 
 Zeliang’s press secretary Azeu Namcyn Hau said if NPF’s interest in Nagaland was compromised, there were chances of four party MLAs withdrawing support to the BJP-led government in Manipur. “If we withdraw support from the Manipur government, BJP will lose two MP seats in the next   polls. If BJP’s alliance with NPF in Nagaland doesn’t remain intact,   will lose one MP seat each in Nagaland and Manipur,” said Hau. 
 
 NPF, despite emerging as the largest party with 26 seats, is in a state of confusion, especially after its pre-poll ally, JDU, decided to join hands with the NDPP-BJP combine to form government. 
 
 While NPF president Shurhozelie Liezietsu is sticking to his ground that his party is not going to have a truck with BJP, another section in the party has been sending feelers to the saffron party to join with them and form government. 
 
 “We are in touch with some winners from BJP who want to form government with NPF. We are ready to provide six ministerial berths to BJP MLAs,” said NPF press secretary Sebastian Zumvu.
 
