Ace actor  , was given the option to perform either in Mumbai or Varanasi at the Theatre Olympics organised by the   in different cities. The ' ' and ' ' actress chose Varanasi. "Banaras really pulls you. I had been to the city several years ago for a film shoot. Though I have very fleeting memories of that stay, I still remember that I had gone to   temple and shopped for some Banarasi saris. Moreover, I am a great believer in God, so I wanted to come here again and perform," she said when we met her.

 Himani, who has done several films and TV shows, says, "Theatre is a like a spa, it kind of rejuvenates you, so the reason I keep coming back to my roots. Theatre is like my first love which stays on forever, no matter how many times you fall in love again. As an actor, if you have done theatre, the magic of it never leaves you. It is very hypnotic and keeps calling you back. Actors like Naseeruddin Shah, Paresh Rawal are still doing theatre because of their love for it. I willingly gave up many assignments in films, TV and endorsements, which were far more economically lucrative, for the sake of theatre as I am really passionate about it. I teach theatre in Mumbai and at the National School of Drama, as I want to remain connected with it."
 
 "Theatre is far more fulfilling for an actor," says Himani, adding, "The kind of roles I can do in theatre, I cannot dream of ever getting in films, which is still a very male dominated industry. Even when I had joined films, though I was in my late 20s, the kind of roles which I was offered were of middle aged woman. In the given circumstances, I tried to do my best in films. Similarly in TV, it was only initially that some good roles came my way. Later what was offered was mere caricature. Theatre has beautiful roles for women but which are unfortunately missing in other mediums."
 
 The spirited actor however, does not hesitate to spell out the lacunae in theatre as well. "The only drawback in Hindi theatre is that the money is pittance. It is sad that people don’t buy tickets and watch Hindi theatre, which is not the case with Marathi and Gujarati theatre, where the audience are ready to spend money to watch plays. While I was doing a repertoire and was travelling across the country, during my performance in Nasik, I was shocked to see that theatre shows were happening back to back, like films, and all were ticketed shows that were running houseful. While in the Delhi repertoire, we invite people but we see the same faces every time. Even in my hometown in Dehradun, I had to invite people, give them cards, and even call them. They do you a favour in coming and watching your play. It is really unfortunate that people will spend thousands of rupees to watch a trashy film in a multiplex but won't spend 50 or 100 bucks to see a good play. This is one of the major reasons Hindi theatre has not developed. A Marathi or Gujarati actor survives by just doing theatre but which is unfortunately not the case with a Hindi theatre actor. We have to do films and television to survive."
 
 Himani believes that presence of a star in a play helps in drawing the audience to theatre. "Now I have a face and if I do theatre then people will come and see the play. I want to use this to popularise Hindi theatre, if I can," she says.
 
