It’s barely been a few days since he left the   house bowing out at third position during the finale, but it’s already back to business and normal routine for Kannada actor  . The fitness freak that he is, JK, as he’s popularly known, isn’t amused about the weight and, more importantly, muscle loss he has suffered due to his stint on the show, and has already started working on getting back in shape. He also has his movie commitments to honour, interviews about being on the show and much more keeping him busy. Before he headed to Shirdi, we managed to speak to   about all things Bigg Boss. Here are excerpts from the conversation.

 
 The team behind the show had been asking me for the past four years, but earlier, I was never mentally prepared for it. I go with my thoughts and this time around, I felt I needed to convey to people what I am like in real life.
 
 
 People thought that I had a lot of attitude, am arrogant, don’t mingle easily with people and don’t speak to them. There was a perception that I tend to keep to myself. This was something that I wanted to correct in the minds of audiences. I believe that I have achieved what I set out to get. Today, people know the real me and come up to me and say that I am a nice person; that is all that matters.
 
 Honestly, I think it is mainly because of my character in  , in which I played a very arrogant superstar. People must have thought that I was exactly like my character, which sort of carried forward in my Hindi serial,  , as well, in which I played Raavan. Many thought that I was a real-life Raavan. No one really came up to me to talk to me or figure out if I was what they thought I was. I was also told that I look arrogant, unless, of course, I smile.
 
 Whatever I wanted to convey, I have been able to do, and in that sense, I think it was a good experience for me. But overall, it is a difficult place to live in. More so, because I like to keep busy through the day. Normally, I sleep only for about 5-6 hours, and am up and about at all other times. In the Bigg Boss house, it was really tough for me, because there were a lot of unproductive hours. It got me wondering, ‘What am I doing here?’ Spending 24 hours, with not much to do, barring your tasks and other mundane household work, is no mean feat. Over time, I realized that I need to utilize my time better. I have written the script for one of my upcoming movies, May 1st, and I started thinking about what more I could do for it to make it even better. Then people thought that I was just sitting around idle and doing timepass, when, in fact, I was thinking of new ideas.
 
 
 It is difficult to live with people you have known your whole life also sometimes. You don’t understand each other completely. In the BB house, there are 17 people with different temperaments. You have no idea how they are, how they will react to situations, or how to approach them. It took me a couple of weeks to figure that out and used to keep quiet in the meantime. Once I knew how to approach each of them, I started talking to everyone. BB is about learning to live like a family and doing all the work you have to do there. You have to remember that you have to see the same faces the next day. You need to be nice and have good rapport, and accept any feedback that comes your way. I tried my level best to understand everyone, which was the toughest challenge.
 
 
 I would say it is like real life only. The tasks are the obstacles you encounter in day-to-day life. You figure out how to overcome those difficulties and move ahead.
 
 
 Obviously. There were a lot of people who supported me and voted for me. At least for them I wanted to win. Having said that, I feel I have done justice to being in the house.
 
 
 I wouldn’t do it again. Bigg Boss is a lifetime experience for me, which I don’t want to go through again.
 
 
 No. In the house, all I thought about is being myself. If I go again, I will be the same JK, spreading positivity.
 
 
 I will not miss any of the contestants, or anyone from Bigg Boss. In fact, I was good to some of the men also and my best pal was Jagan, which, of course, was not highlighted. As for Shruti (Prakash), Anupama (Gowda) and Krishi (Thapanda), they took good care of me and I reciprocated. That was all there was to it.
 
 
 
