MUMBAI: In 1952, The Times of India reported that a new “beauty spot” had been added to the city—“a fairyland with a waterfall that culminates in a pond from which fountains play, a bird house, a built-in fish tank and a bridge spanning the cliffs overlooking the city’s south-west coastline.” This was a description of  , which had just been inaugurated by the then governor of Bombay, G S Bajpal.

 Sixty-six years later, the newly renovated park still boasts a built-in fish tank and a viewing bridge, but the waterfall has been replaced with a lily pond. There’s also a floral selfie point. The most iconic feature of the park, the ‘Old Woman’s Shoe’, which was closed for over five years after it was hit by lightning, has undergone an overhaul.
 
 Cane swings dot the landscaped garden and paintings of beloved Jungle Book characters and famous   like ‘Baa Baa Black Sheep’ and ‘There Was an Old Woman Who Lived In a Shoe’ break the monotony.
 
 The renovation cost the BMC over Rs 5 crore and took 12 months. It was inaugurated on Thursday at a function attended by Shiv Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray,   Vishwanath Mahadeshwar, and other dignitaries. 
 
 Additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Mukherjee said, “The park has been given a new nursery rhyme theme. As there are a lot of international tourists, we have created a walkway overlooking Marine Drive and Chowpatty. The Ashoka pillar now sports a tricolour lighting scheme, while the amphitheatre and the viewing gallery resemble a rainbow and a mariner’s compass. We have installed signage that provides information on the flora and fauna.” 
 
 Visitors like Minal Gomes and her eight-year-old daughter Stephanie thronged the park. “It’s much better than what it was,” said Gomes. “I never expected it to be so nice.” Gaurav Bhave, a Girgaum resident, who counts Kamala Nehru Park amongst his favourite haunts, described the revamped park as “awesome”. He was particularly struck by the greenery and the lighting. But some visitors were underwhelmed. Surinder Dhawan, a Malabar Hill reside-nt, said, “Considering the money and labour involved, they’ve not done anything special.”
 
 
