CHANDIGARH: Striking a measured pace while ambling along the   lake’s promenade and keeping a hawk’s eye secures glorious observations of our feathered friends. These can be chance discoveries that adds to the Tricity’s avian riches. This is how the record of lesser sand plovers seen in Inter-State Capital Region (ISCR) for the first time was created after four specimens were spotted on the Sukhna’s embankment.

 A wader species and a rarity for the deep inland region, the plovers stayed very briefly at Sukhna as they were in migration passage from sub-continental coasts to above the tree-line in the   or   in the urge to breed. The ISCR encompasses a region falling within a 50km radius from Chandigarh. The plover’s record takes the checklist of the ISCR’s avian diversity to 430. In earlier years, the Kentish plover and little ringed plover have been recorded in the ISCR.
 
 In the field, it is not easy to distinguish between lesser and greater sand plovers. However, when examined carefully with binoculars, the plovers differ in terms of bill size, length and colour of legs. The dark sub-terminal band on the tail of a greater sand plover sets it apart from the narrower, white wing bar across primary feathers of a lesser sand plover. There are other features, too, that contribute to the distinctions between these two tiny delights in the world of migration. 
 
 As compared to the greater plover, previous sightings of the lesser plover (as recorded by eBird India) are closer to Chandigarh in migration passage. For example, Mike Prince recorded a single lesser plover at Pong dam on March 10, 2018, while Sunil Kumar observed three at Yamuna Khadar, Hiranki, north of Delhi, on September 18, 2016. It is quite possible that the four specimens observed at Sukhna on May 13, 2018, were on a brief stopover en-route to Pong dam before flying further to high altitude lakes and wetlands for breeding. On the other hand, records of the greater sand plover being spotted in Northwest India are fewer and lie to the west of Chandigarh. The nearest record of the greater plover to Chandigarh is from Nathusari Chopta, Sirsa, by Sanjeev K Goyal on July 17, 2016, and Sambar lake by   on August 15, 2015.
 
 Describing the behaviour of plovers while wintering on sea coasts, the legendary ornithologist Salim Ali wrote, “The birds run about in short spurts with quick mincing steps, neck pulled into the shoulders, dipping forward obliquely now and again to pick up some titbit. They bunch up on high ground to rest when the tide is in, and scatter again as it recedes, often feeding till well past sunset. When resting, the bird stands inert on one leg, the other remaining tucked even while repelling a neighbour, hopscotching up to him comically with bill threateningly levelled..”
 
 According to IUCN research, the breeding diet of plovers includes many beetles, weevils, fly larvae, stalk worms and crabs while during the non-breeding season, this species takes insects, crustaceans (such as crabs and amphipods), molluscs (particularly bivalves) and polycheate worms.
 
 
