AHMEDABAD: Students across the city were all smiles as they checked their results of class XII board exams declared by the Central Board of Secondary Education on Saturday. Most city schools registered cent per cent passed, with several students scoring above 90%. Some even scored full marks in various subjects, and once again, girls outshone boys.

 Keeping up their track record, students of DPS-Bopal excelled in scoring marks. Girls of DPS secured top positions in all streams including the school topper position. All 196 girls who appeared for exam in Science stream passed with flying colours. Priya Singh emerged as the topper in Science stream with 97% marks. At DPS (East) Yugansh Dave scored the highest with 93% in Science.
 
 
  
 Of the 53 students who had appeared for exams in Science stream from Maharaja Agrasen Vidyalaya, 42 students secured distinction. Archi Shah topped the school’s merit list in Science by scoring 96.4% and she was followed by Nikhil Bhamwani with 94.2% .
 
 Of the 81 students, who appeared for exams from  , 39 students scored 90% and above. Antara Banerjee emerged as the school topper with 96% marks. She was followed by Dhruv Banerjee and Vedant Kedia, with both scoring 95%.
 
  Rachana School registered cent per cent passed with Vallari Patil topping in the school scoring 96.4%. She was followed by   with 95.8%. Students of   again made their school proud. Muskan Sah and Nandini Vaghani scored 95% and emerged as school toppers. They were followed by Astha Modi with 93.4%. 
 
 At Prakash School, Sahaj Phalorah topped in the group with maths combination by scoring 95.2%. While, Disha Shah topped with 94% in the group with biology combination. Out of 68 who appeared for the exam from Divine Child International School, Mehsana, 30% students scored above 80%. Scoring 94.8%, Ankitkumar Patel emerged as school topper. He was followed by Nishil Inani , who scored 93.6%. Rudrashi Suryavanshi emerged as school topper with 92.4% at DCIS Adalaj branch.
 
 The New Tulip International School also registered 100 per cent success rate.   emerged as school topper by scoring 95.8%. Ayush Jain with 95% emerged as a topper at Podar International School. At Hillwoods School (Gandhinagar) Vhaghisha emerged as Science topper by scoring 97.4%. She was followed by   at 93.8%.
 
 Kendriya Vidyalayas register better pass rate
 
 Kendriya Vidyalayas across the state registered a 2.55% increase in their passing rate in the class XII results declared by the Central Board of Secondary Education on Saturday. The pass rate for this academic year was 95.67% compared to 93.12% last year. A total of 2,067 students had taken the exam from 38 KVs across the state. As many as 1,977 students cleared the exam. Speaking to TOI, assistant commissioner in-charge of Kendriya Vidyalayas, J Prasad, said, “This year, as many as 17 KVs registered a cent per cent passing rate. Last year, there were only 8 KVs with similar scores.” In the city, KV SAC has registered cent per cent pass rate. 
 
 
