CHANDIGARH: Participating for the second time in the annual ‘Museum Week 2018’, 32 students from Class IX of  , Sector 38, took over the entire functioning and operations of Government   and Art Gallery, Sector 10, to have a hands-on understanding of the various behind the scenes responsibilities of an exhibition and conservation of art on Friday. 

 The event was a part of the largest global campaign for museums supported by Unesco. 
 
 The students on Thursday were taken through an orientation programme explaining varied roles and responsibilities of working in a museum, after which they were divided into different teams and were given roles like conservators, curators, librarians, marketing team, guides, sculptor among others. 
 
 The event is a part of a national organisation titled ‘Heritage Lab’ which works for increasing education, awareness and literacy about museums and connecting them with people. 
 
 The students who were acting as guides were seen manning the displays, paintings, excavated artefacts and sculptors while explaining about their history and importance to the visitors and other local and oversees tourists. 
 
 “Both of us are working as conservators in the museum and we have learnt about a lot of things. Firstly, we learnt about the materials that are used in conservation of certain objects. For example, I am working on an ancient sculpture of Lord Vishnu. As conservators, we are required to enlist the flaws or the broken parts of the sculpture and later work on improving them. We have to write about holes, discolouration of metal and also, if anything is missing,” said Fateh and Mayush, Class XI students from Vivek High School.
 
 The group of students working as curators were divided into two themes —‘representation of women in Indian art’ and ‘elements of architecture in Gandhara Art’. 
 
 The students working as curators were made to collect pictures of various artworks encapsulating their themes and were taught the art of an organised research and documentation.
 
 The students also worked as librarians, maintaining a database of the books available in the museum along with cataloguing them. A group of students were also working in the children’s museum section and learnt to create artworks on potter’s wheel through clay and moulds.
 
 
