CHENNAI: Even as opposition parties are stepping up pressure on the ruling AIADMK — the third largest party in the country — to back the no-confidence motion moved by Telugu Desam Party against the Modi government, the AIADMK has decided to wait till March 29 for the Centre to set up the   Management Board and would take further course of action later.

 This comes in the backdrop of complaints that the six-week deadline given by the Supreme Court to constitute the permanent bodies would end shortly. The court pronounced its verdict on the festering water dispute on February 16. Deputy chief minister   said the state would not give up the its rights to the inter-state river. “We have the SC order. We cannot discuss it and therefore, we have to remain patient. Only if nothing fructified, we could meet then and take a good decision,” the deputy CM said, responding to leader of opposition, M K Stalin, who urged the state to support the no-confidence motion.
 
 The DMK leader said that an all-party and farmers meeting on February 22 passed a unanimous resolution to meet PM   to exert pressure on him to set up Cauvery Management Board and Cauvery Water Regulation Committee. Since it was getting delayed, the assembly passed another resolution unanimously on March 15 to set up the board and committee. “But is there any information received by the government? When TDP moves a no-confidence motion for special category status to  , let the TN government also show keenness,” Stalin said, urging the state government to send the message to MPs in Delhi. 
 
 Lok Sabha was, however, adjourned on Monday, and the TDP and YSR Congress could not move the motion after AIADMK MPs disrupted the proceedings for the  . Panneerselvam said the Parliament had been stalled for a week now due to protests by AIADMK members. “Never in the history of Tamil Nadu, a public issue has been stalled for a week in Parliament,” the deputy CM said. “The special category status sought by Andhra Pradesh is their problem. I request the opposition leader not to link the issue with that of Cauvery,” he added. 
 
 
