KOCHI: The oceans will house more plastics than fish by 2050. Recent studies have shown that there are 5.25 trillion pieces of plastic debris in the ocean. Of that mass, 269,000 tonnes float on the surface, while some four billion plastic microfibres per square kilometre litter the deep sea, said experts at the two-day national conference on marine debris (COMAD 2018) beginning on Wednesday. 

 About 850 million metric tonnes of plastics will be found in the ocean by 2050 whereas the ocean will have only 812 million metric tonnes of fish by that time, said V Kripa, principal scientist of the   ( ), while delivering the talk. The two-day conference is being organized by the Marine Biological Association of India.
 
 She said that coastal waters are highly contaminated with plastic debris. "Since the coastal waters are nursery area for several fishes, high amount of plastics in coastal areas will have drastic impact on many fishery resources," Kripa said.
 
 "Abandoned or lost nets, commonly known as 'ghost nets' are also a major concern, which disrupt the environment of ocean and troubles fishing activities. Disposing such nets also causes entanglement of dolphins and entanglement in the propellers of fishing boats. This is also a threat to migratory turtles," she added.
 
 The problem is not with plastic but poor garbage culture that is leading to accumulation of wastes in land and water ecosystem.
 
  Plastic is no more meant to be a waste, but a fruitful resource for multiple developmental purposes if processed scientifically," said   Rajagopalan, the 'Plastic Man of India.'
 
 In his inaugural address, Vasudevan, who received   for converting plastic wastes into tar for road construction, said plastic wastes could be mixed with stones and bitumen for laying plastic roads which last up to 15 years. 
 
 "One lakh kilometres of plastic roads have been laid in India so far," he added.
 
 According to him, billions of pounds of plastics can be found in swirling convergences making up about 40% of the world's ocean surfaces. "However, India will require import plastic wastes from other countries if all the roads in the country convert into plastic roads," he said.
 
 
