NOIDA: A   of a private company returning home to celebrate Holi with his family was robbed of Rs 28,000 and some valuables at gunpoint by four men who had offered him a lift to the   in their car.

 The four men had allegedly beaten him up and threatened to shoot him dead after he faked his ATM pin on being told to withdraw money from his account. Kumar Gaurav, an HR manager with the Shriram Group in Rajasthan’s Kota, had got off a bus at Pari Chowk in Greater Noida around 6am on Thursday and was waiting for an auto when the men offered him the lift.
 
 The HR professional said that even after getting robbed, he had a tough time registering a police complaint as the cops debated over jurisdiction.
 
 “I got off the bus at Pari Chowk around 6am. There was no auto to take me home to Gaur City (Noida Extension). A Swift Dzire screeched to a halt and the two occupants, including the driver, offered to drop me to Noida   metro station,” Gaurav said.
 
 Soon after Gaurav got into the car, it picked up two more persons on the way. “After a few minutes, they pointed a gun at me and asked me to hand over whatever I had. I realised I had been kidnapped,” he said.
 
 The group also snatched Gaurav’s mobile phone and removed the battery to ensure he could not call the police even after they had dumped him. The victim gave them his purse, which had Rs 1,300 and a debit card.
 
 “They stopped the car outside an SBI ATM kiosk in Sector Omega 1 and asked me for the PIN,” the 36-year-old said. While three men held him at gunpoint in the car, one went to the ATM to withdraw the money.
 
 As Gaurav had given the wrong password, the withdrawal was denied. The gang then beat him up and threatened to shoot him, prompting him to share the correct pin. The four withdrew Rs 28,000 from his account in three transactions.
 
 The men, however, refused to take Gaurav’s laptop, saying they were not educated enough to make any use if it. The manager was eventually dumped in Sector Pi after a two-hour drive on the Noida Expressway.
 
 Gaurav alleged that the police stations in Kasna and Knowledge Park had initially refused to register his complaint over jurisdiction issues. He claimed officials in the Knowledge Park police station had told him to contact the Kasna police station as he had been dumped near it. The Kasna police station apparently told him he had been picked up from an area under the other police station.
 
 Hansraj Bhadoriya, the SHO of Knowledge Park police station, said a case of   had been registered against four unknown persons in his police station. “We are scanning CCTV footage of nearby areas,” he said.
 
 
