PUDUCHERRY: Former   member M   appreciated the findings of the Indian economic survey 2017-18 that admitted that   and goods and services tax led to negative effects despite tall claims by prime minister and Union finance minister that the measures helped in countering terrorism and tax evasion.

 In a statement, Ramadass said these two measures had unleashed a new vicious circle of poverty in the country. “Shutting down lakhs of small ventures, affecting landless, marginal and small farm households, curbing purchasing power of millions, reducing demand for goods and services and affecting production and employment, these two measures (demonetisation and  ) had unleashed a new vicious circle of poverty in the country,” he said.
 
 Ramadass was of the opinion that the Union government must not wait for private investment and must inject more public investment in infrastructure, agriculture and industries and empower people with more purchasing power by restricting direct and indirect taxes. “The Indian economy will traverse the growth path of 7% only after public investment-oriented action is initiated,” he said.
 
 He also lauded the survey for cautioning the government of the ill-effects of climate change on dry agriculture, which may reduce farm income by 20% to 25%. He sought the Union government to revive the ‘celebrated planning commission’ and bid farewell to Niti Ayog, which so far has not grasped the factual challenges, issues, priorities and targets of real India.
 
 He mocked at the prediction of the survey that Indian economy will grow at 6.75% in the current year and at 7% to 7.5% in the next financial year arguing that the prediction is based on ‘a few uncertain and unsure foundations such as stability in global economic recovery, controlled international oil prices, neutralising inflationary effects, growing private sector investment, rising exports and elevated stock prices.
 
 “These factors are under least control of the government and the survey has no reason to rejoice that India will be the fastest growing economy in the world,” he said.
 
 He wondered the economic survey did not mention the issues highlighted by the world economic report on India recently. The world report had made a candid but shocking revelation that “73% of India’s wealth is concentrated in the hands of 1% of millionaires and billionaires of the country and that out of every three poverty-stricken persons of the world, one is an Indian”, he said.
 
 
