PATIALA: Having escaped the   in  , five Indians — four of them from Punjab and one from   — returned home this past week after spending six years in prison there.

 A Sharjah court had ordered the execution of Dharmendra of Chapra district in Bihar, Harwinder Singh of Ajnala in Amritsar district, Ranjit Ram of Zinsra village in Nawanshahr, Dalwinder Singh of Malpur village in Hoshiarpur, and Sucha Singh of Jasso Majra village in Patiala for murdering Varinder Chauhan (38) of Shekhanura village,   district in Uttar Pradesh, on November 4, 2011.
 
 The killing took place after a bootlegging deal had going bad. Though the five were to be executed in the Middle Eastern country, they were let-off after an NGO, Sarbat Da Bhala, came to their rescue and paid Rs 21 lakh as   to the murdered man’s kin.
 
 The five men, however, served a jail term in Sharjah for the crime and were deported with a rider that they could never return to the country again.
 
 The Sharjah court had convicted the five men, and awarded them death by gunshot and three years in jail. However, before the execution could be carried out, SPS Oberoi, who runs Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust, moved a petition before the Sharjah court, pleading that a chance be given to his NGO to save the lives of the five people by offering blood money to the victim’s family.
 
 Following this, the court ordered a stay on their execution. During this, Oberoi approached the victim’s family and met his mother, wife, son and five daughters’, including three minors, in August last year, and persuaded them to pardon the five men.
 
 After a lot of persuasion, Virendra’s family agreed to accept the blood money of Rs 21 lakh. In accordance to laws prevalent in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), the family issued a pardon letter to the five men. The letter was produced before the Sharjah court on September 27 last year. Then a panel of judges set aside the execution orders on October 23 last year.
 
 As the accused had already undergone six years of imprisonment against three years awarded to them for the crime, the court ordered their release on April 11 this year, after which they have returned home.
 
 Sucha Singh said he had gone to Dubai about 11 years ago. Happy over his son returning home, Karam Singh said the family had lost all hope after Sucha was convicted. 
 
 Oberoi said the Indian high commission at Sharjah, Jaspal Singh Ahuja, helped the men get temporary passports and tickets, and this facilitated their return.
 
 ‘Jobless, Indian youth take to crime in Middle East’
 
 NGOP Sarbat Da Bhala founder S P S Oberoi said travel agents often misled Indian youth when it came to immigration to Middle East. “Propsective immigrants end up believing that their lives would change once they reach the Middle East, but that does not happen,” he said. 
 
 He added that Indian youth ended up taking odd jobs in these countries as they go abroad after talking huge loans. “They get into bootlegging as it means quick money, though it is illegal. Gangs involved in bootlegging operate in separate areas within cities and feuds often erupt between them,” he said.
 
 
