NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday named a prominent chartered accountant, Narain Dass Gupta,   and social activist Sushil Gupta and party functionary   as nominees for the   elections scheduled on January 16. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announced the names following a meeting of the party's political affairs committee (PAC) and consultations with over 50 MLAs at chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence. 

 Eight members of the 11-member PAC voted for all three canddiates. Ashutosh gave his consent for N D Gupta and   Singh but did not vote for Sushil Gupta. PAC member Kumar Vishwas was not invited while Sanjay Singh did not attend. The choice of Sushil Gupta and N D Gupta have, however, left political observers surprised, considering the fact that some prominent names had been in circulation. 
 
 Sisodia said the party first wanted to choose people of national repute for which it approached 18 personalities well known in the fields of judiciary, law, economy, academics etc. “Some of them felt that association with   will undermine their political neutrality while others feared reprisal from the ruling BJP and declined the offer,” said Sisodia after the PAC meeting. Among some names which had been in circulation were Raghuram Rajan, T S Thakur, Gopal Subramaniam and Arun Shourie.
 
 No consensus could be reached on the name of any of the 11 top party functionaries considered as potential nominees because some of them could be in the running for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “CM wanted people from outside the party. These included Atishi Marlena, Ashutosh and Raghav Chadha. Finally, it was decided to choose people working in different fields though they do not have national fame,” said Sisodia. 
 
 The Guptas are not well-known in political circles but AAP claimed both have impressive profiles. N D Gupta, 72, is a former president of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and member of the Board of International Federation of Accountants (USA) and has been helping the party in its fight with the income-tax department.
 
 Author of many international publications and books on economy and business, N D Gupta has been a member of Central Direct Taxes Advisory Committee and Audit Advisory Board of CAG and a board member of Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority besides that of other government bodies. He is considered an expert on GST.
 
 A billionaire, 56-year-old Sushil Gupta is a businessman and social activist. He runs various not-for-profit educational institutions located in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab besides several hospitals. He reportedly has influence in the Agrawal community in Haryana and Delhi and could be an asset for the party. A former president of Law Students Union of Delhi University, Sushil Gupta also contested the assembly elections from Moti Nagar in 2013 on a Congress ticket. He resigned from the party in November last year when he reportedly told the Delhi Congress president that “AAP has assured him of an RS nomination.” In a couple of years, he has reportedly come close to top AAP functionaries.
 
 With AAP since its inception, 46-year-old Sanjay Singh is in-charge of party’s UP and Bihar units and also a PAC member. A mechanical engineer, Singh has been active in social work for more than two decades. He got in touch with Kejriwal during the RTI movement and the relationship deepened during the anti-corruption movement. He was in-charge of party’s Punjab unit during the assembly elections in early 2017 in which the party won 20 seats.
 
 The MLAs who were consulted over the nominations did not express any disagreement and preferred not to speak about it to the media. "We accept the choices of the party," a couple of MLAs told TOI after the meeting was over while another said: “Nobody listens to the MLAs anyway.”
 
 AAP is set to win all the three Rajya Sabha seats currently represented by Congress since it has an overwhelming majority in the 70-member assembly.
 
 
