Chennai: India’s superbike market is revving up for some rural growth. The small volume high growth luxury motorcycle market in the 400 cc plus range is betting big on rural demand as better road infrastructure and aspirational spending push the younger customer base in Tier-2 and Tier-3 towns/cities to buy these brands.  “For us, in the 500 cc plus segment, sales from Tier-2 and Tier-3 markets last year was 10-12%. Currently that has jumped to 20-22%. In the 400-500 cc segment, already a lot of demand is coming from rural/semi urban markets,” said Vimal Sumbly, MD, Triumph Motorcycles India. What’s more, there’s really not much difference in the profile of customers between rural and urban markets, he said. “Between Tier-1 and Tier-2 or 3 markets, there’s no difference in consumer profile and if anything the Tier 2/3 consumers are more brand conscious,” Sumbly added. “Consumers in these markets like to buy clothing and accessories along with the product even though they typically take longer to make their buying decision.” Young consumer base makes the non-metro markets more attractive. “The age profile of our target audience is 35-40 years but our rural customers are younger though many are supported by their parents,” said Sumbly. “A younger profile is positive because that will ensure faster growth.” Understandably superbike companies like Triumph are focusing attention on these customers for incremental growth. “Our focus this year is on Tier-2 and Tier-3 markets and we’re starting with a showroom in Mangalore this week, followed Coimbatore, Calicut, Vishakhapatnam, Lucknow, Dehradoon, Ludhiana and Guwahati,” said Sumbly. “The plan is to go from 15 outlets right now to 25 outlets by 2020 and all of these starting with Mangalore onwards will be in Tier 2 towns because our new set of consumers will come from there,” he added. That’s good news for a segment that’s expected to clock reasonably decent double digit growth this year as well. “Although Q1 retails may not be as exciting as last year because of the BS3 to BS4 effect in 2017, overall there has been a positive mood from January onwards in our segment,’’ said Sumbly.  Which means the entire 200 cc plus range should see double digit growth and the 500 cc plus should do 2-3% more than the regular industry driven by new product launches. “We’re expecting the entire 500 cc plus segment to clock 10-15% growth,’’ he added. As for the larger mid-segment (200 cc and above), that is already clocking around 7,00,000-7,50,000 units which should see it expand towards the higher end.  “The mid segment today should be around 60% urban and 40% rural and over time it should be 40% urban and 60% rural,’’ said Sumbly. 