GURUGRAM : A 14-year-old boy who is a student of Class VI, was blackmailed for six months by his neighbour, an unemployed youth, and another boy, a Class IX student living in the neighbourhood, with a video of the former eating at a dhaba with his friends. The Class IX student also sodomised him under threat, filming the act to continue the blackmail. 

 The duo extorted over Rs 1 lakh, a gold chain and two mobile phones from their victim. The matter came to light some days ago when the boy confided to his family that he was on the verge of suicide. 
 
 The family approached police and an FIR has been registered in the case.
 
 According to the complaint lodged by the boy’s uncle, nearly six months ago, Harpal (21), a resident of Mau village, spotted the boy and his two school friends at a dhaba near   on the national highway. 
 
 The boy had not taken permission from his family to eat outside. Harpal made a video and clicked pictures of the boys. Next evening, he approached the boy at his wrestling class and threatened to show the pictures to his coach as well as his grandfather, who is a cop. 
 
 The boy loved wrestling and had been forbidden to eat outside by his coach and family. Harpal demanded Rs 2,000 from him, which he stole from his house to give.
 
 However, Harpal started to blackmail the boy regularly, and he started stealing cash from his house. This created tension among family members. Harpal had extorted Rs 1,10,000 from the boy before the family became alert and noticed that something was wrong with the boy.
 
 Last month, Harpal shared the photos and the video with a student of Class IX, who also started blackmailing the boy. The Class IX student started visiting the boy when he was alone at home. 
 
 Once, he thrashed the boy and forced him to give the key to their almirah and stole Rs 54,000. The Class IX student also took the boy to the fields where he sodomised him and filmed the act. He started to threaten the boy with this new video, forcing him to hand over more money, his mother’s gold chain and two mobile phones. 
 
 According to the boy’s uncle, when the family started taking stricter security measures, the thefts stopped but they noticed that the boy looked scared. Then they started questioning him. “My nephew was disturbed as he was trying to flee from home or commit suicide. We found a handwritten suicide note in which he had written how the accused had been harassing and blackmailing him,” the uncle said in his complaint.
 
 An FIR has been registered against Harpal and the Class IX student under sections 384 (extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of IPC and Section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at Pataudi  . Police are conducting raids to nab the accused. “The accused are absconding but they will be arrested soon,” said Beer Singh, ACP, Pataudi. 
 
 
