BENGALURU:  ,  , is the only team from India to make it to the finals of the $20-million   —   — to develop breakthrough technologies that convert the most   from coal and natural gas power plants into products with the highest net value.

 The team, among 10 firms globally to make it to the last stage, is led by Dr Sebastian Peter from Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR), his colleague Prof Umesh Waghmare and Rakshith Raghavan Belur, 32, from Airbus India, co-founder of the three-member company. 
 
 The competition, launched in September 2015, aims to address global CO2 emissions which lead to climate change, by incentivising innovative solutions to convert CO2 from a liability into an asset. Other finalists are four firms from Canada, three from the US and one each from the UK and China.
 
 The contest has two tracks — one focused on testing technologies at a coal power plant and the other at a natural gas power plant. Each track will operate as a separate competition following the same timeline. The prize money ($20 million) will be split into two equal sums for each track.
 
 “We’ve been named as one of the 10 finalist teams from five countries advancing in the competition,” the firm told TOI in a statement. 
 
 Breathe has been awarded an equal share of the $5 million milestone prize for developing new approaches that have the potential to transform our climate future. The finalists were announced in New York on Monday. 
 
 To secure a place in the finals, the semifinalists had to demonstrate their technologies through a small-scale pilot at a location of their choice. Over 10 months, the teams were challenged to meet minimum technical requirements and were first audited by independent verification partner Southern Research. 
 
 “Teams were then evaluated based on how much CO2 they converted into products, the economic value, market size and CO2 uptake potential of those products, the overall CO2 footprint of their process as well as energy efficiency,” Belur said, adding that Breathe’s proposal is to convert CO2 waste emitted from a coal power plant into usable methanol.
 
 
