Mumbai: A research report by   has said that political uncertainty is on the rise and the ruling   (BJP) is on the back foot — a development that could hurt  . The report concludes that   is currently  .

 
 In the report authored by India economist Sonal Varma and others, the investment bank said that an early general election in the fourth quarter of 2018 instead of the scheduled second quarter of 2019 cannot be ruled out. “We would assign a 25% probability to an early general election, clubbed together with state elections scheduled in Q42018 and H12019 (first half), including the key BJP states of Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. For the BJP, the advantage would be an ease of campaigning and subduing anti-incumbency in states like Rajasthan,” it said.
 
 According to Nomura, early elections would mean that big-ticket reforms are less likely and after four years of fiscal prudence a populist overtone is more likely as the government raises its pro-farmer, pro-common man profile via higher minimum support prices (MSPs) and fiscal transfers that ensure that   are effective, increasing both inflation and fiscal risks. “Given an already negative basic balance of payments (current account + net foreign direct investment), this could make current account deficit financing difficult,” the report said.Overall, the outcome of the Lok Sabha elections are hard to forecast, but political uncertainty and noise are only set to rise in the next year and some consideration needs to be assigned to the opposition parties performing better than in 2014. “We believe that these political risks are currently under-priced,” the report said. It analyses headwinds faced by the ruling BJP. These include the loss of two key by-elections in Uttar Pradesh, exit of the   from the ruling alliance, failure to win support for state assembly by-elections in Bihar and the likelihood of the opposition rising from the ashes to form a grand coalition. “The immediate political threat is trivial as the BJP coalition still has a majority in the lower house. However, the emerging political vulnerabilities are emboldening both opposition parties and the more vociferous of its allies to become more restive,” the report said.
 
 
