KOTTAYAM/THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Following damning evidence of their role in helping the gang that murdered newly married Kevin Joseph, adalit, two policemen were taken into custody and questioned by the special investigation team on Wednesday. Kevin, 23, was allegedly abducted by his wife Neenu’s family a day after their wedding from the house of his cousin. His badly bruised body was found two days later in a rivulet. 

 
 T M Biju, assistant sub-inspector of   police station, and Ajayakumar, a driver from the same station, who had earlier been suspended for dereliction of duty, were quizzed by SIT. An audio clip of a conversation between the ASI and prime accused Shanu Chacko, Neenu’s brother, was aired by TV channels on Wednesday morning. IG Vijay Sakhare, who is leading the investigation, confirmed the veracity of the tape. 
 
 Meanwhile, finance minister T M Thomas Isaac called the “honour killing” an indelible blot on the state’s reputation. In a   post on Wednesday, Isaac wrote: “The backing it (the murder) received from police points to a very dangerous situation. Nobody can trivialise this situation, and the message has already been conveyed to society through immediate action against responsible police officers. We all should drop our heads in shame before Neenu,” he said. 
 
 In stark contrast to his senior cabinet colleague, chief minister   continued to blame the media for casting the state in a bad light. “I’m not averse to criticism, you should criticise mistakes. But a section of the media is not doing that. They want to prove that he (Kevin) died as Gandhinagar police was preoccupied with the security of the CM. That is wrong... That is unacceptable,” he said.
 
 Shanu Chacko and his father were remanded by an Ettumanur court in judicial custody. Another accused,  , surrendered in Peerumedu court on Wednesday and was handed over to police in  . The three who were remanded on Tuesday — Niyaz, Riyaz and Ishan — will be taken into police custody on Thursday. Six accused are still at large.
 
