GAYA: Magadh division commissioner Jitendra   has directed Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College and   (ANMMCH) authorities to put in place standard operating procedures ( ) to be adopted to meet emergencies requiring mass medical attention and intervention.

 Though shortcomings were first noticed during the Rajdhani Express accident in the year 2002, in which more than 125 passengers were killed and another 200 received serious injuries, sources said little has been done to standardise medical assistance during emergencies including accidents, earthquake and other calamities.
 
 A meeting was held in the commissioner's office on Monday to work out the modalities of SOP. “The SOP must be effective enough to put everything in place at the shortest possible notice. The SOP must specify who will perform what job during emergency and standby arrangements to replace pre-designated officials in case of their non-availability. It must be clear in the SOP as to who will bell the emergency ring. The response time must not be more than 15 minutes. Perodical rehearsals would also be needed to put the SOP to test,” the commissioner said.
 
 Srivastav also instructed that the SOP should also incorporate a traffic plan to ensure hassle-free transportation of people needing medical attention from the place of occurrence to the hospital in the shortest possible time. District magistrate and SSP’s role must also be clearly defined in the SOP, said the commissioner.
 
 According to the hospital superintendent Dr SK Sinha, an administrative approval has been obtained for establishment of a nine-bed trauma centre on the hospital premises. It has been on the hospital agenda for more than a decade now.
 
 Though nearly five decades old, ANMMCH lacks amenities like trauma centre, department of neurology and cardiac intervention facilities.
 
 “About 10 patients needing neurosurgery and cardiac intervention are referred everyday to Patna. Quite a few of the referred patients succumb on way to the state capital. On account of sub-standard facilities, the hospital is a misnomer. Due shortage of toilets, open defecation is also quite common on the hospital premises,”   activist   said.
 
 
