COIMBATORE: Several hundred thronged the Race Course scheme road to appreciate the works put on display at the ‘art street’ organised as part of the Coimbatore Vizha, which entered the second day on Saturday.

 Artist B Pradeep was seen making quick sketches of people. The queue got only bigger as the day progressed. “I can make a sketch within seven minutes,” he said.
 
 The ‘art street’ titled Oviya Sandhai, which was organised by  , Raviraj College of Fine Arts, saw participation of more than 90 artists from across   and Andhra Pradesh.
 
 According to Raviraj, founder of Lalit Kalakshetra, the concept of   was drawn from Chitra Sandhai in Bengaluru where various artists sell their artwork. “We wanted to create a similar platform here to promote art and to create awareness about artists in the city,” he said.
 
 The main attraction was the 3D art on display. “My students drew the art as I insisted that the city should get a glimpse of it,” Raviraj said.
 
 V Saravanan, a lab technician with the government arts and science college, said he was very happy to be part of Oviya Sandhai. “We hardly get a large crowd such as this at the art galleries. This is a good way to promote art,” he said.
 
 Parvathi Thiyagarajan, a resident of Race Course and an art lover, said artists should be given their due. “We always gift original paintings to our friends and relatives. People need to move away from the digital prints and respect the paintings. Sandhais like this should be a regular affair,” he said.
 
 Many homemakers, who were passionate artists, also put their works on display at Oviya Sandhai. One of them was B Sangeetha, who said she wanted to live her passion.
 
 Oviya Sandhai had a lot to offer apart from art works. K N Tarini from   was busy painting tattoos for children and adults. Food trucks were stationed on the street. Karaoke, music and beautiful lights drew more crowds as evening passed.
 
 Shimna, a local resident, said she had never seen such a beautifully lighted place in the city and was happy to spend her weekend there.
 
 Chen, a resident of China, said she loved the sandhai. “There was a wide range of art work. I loved the food as well,” she said.
 
 
