GHAZIABAD: A   has alleged that a man groped his seven-year-old twin daughters and tried to kiss them on the cheeks during   celebrations in Risabh Cloud 9 apartments in  .

 The father has lodged a complaint for molestation, saying the alleged assault had been captured in CCTV cameras installed in the housing society. An FIR is yet to be registered in the case.
 
 The engineer, who lives with his wife, mother and twin daughters in a seventh-floor flat in Tower F, said he had been watching from the balcony his daughters playing holi in an open area of the housing society on Friday.
 
 “Around 12.20pm, my mother pointed out that a man was trying to lift one of my daughters. When I looked closely, I saw the man had already picked her up in the arms and was trying to plant a kiss on the cheek. My second daughter was hitting him from behind. He then put down my first daughter, picked up the other and tried to do the same. I immediately rushed downstairs,” he said. 
 
 The father said the accused was aged around 25-30 years, spoke in Bengali and was drunk. 
 
 According to sources, the man did not live in the society. Many of the guards were on leave for Holi, making it a free run for outsiders, the residents said.
 
 “I handed him over to the guards of the housing society and told them to keep an eye on him while I dropped my daughters home. By the time I returned, the guards had let him go. The molestation and how the guards released the man have both been captured on CCTV. On Saturday, I gave a written complaint to the police,” he said.
 
 Sources said the housing society did not have any official apartment owners’ association as of now and the security was being managed by a private firm hired by the builder.
 
 Sandeep Pandey, a member of a temporary association of society residents, blamed the private security firm for the lapse. 
 
 “Due to Holi celebrations, some security personnel were on leave. This could be the reason for outsiders entering the society without a check. We will raise the matter with the developer,” Pandey said.
 
 Contacted, SHO, Indirapuram, Sachin Malik said he had received a complaint and was looking into the matter.
 
 
