JOHANNESBURG: Thanks to rain joining the fourth one-day international between South Africa and India for a good hour, a 50-over game rode on the Duckworth-Lewis Method to change into Twenty20 mode, making Pink Day at the Wanderers an evening to remember.

 
 
 
 
 
 Chasing India’s 290 for a win in the mandatory 50 overs, South Africa were 43-1 when rain and lightning altered the calculations, leaving them needing a further 159 runs from 124 balls. The hosts, for once, got their act together and raced to the target with nine balls to spare.
 
 In doing so, South Africa relieved themselves of the haunting Indian wrist spinners in a five-wicket victory and kept the six-match series alive ahead of the fifth game at Port Elizabeth.
 
 Having lost a wicket already before play had to be stopped, the hosts walked out once the umpires had inspected the field of play and soon found AB de Villiers at the crease leading the charge.
 
 Two sixes, a four and AB raced to 26 off just 18 balls, changing the momentum of the chase to levels not yet seen on the part of South Africa in the three matches so far. The batsman didn’t last long, holing out to Rohit Sharma at long-leg, but while he stayed, he provided enough inspiration for the rest of the batsmen – the dangerous   in particular – to maintain their pace.
 
 Miller joined Amla at the crease and he proved to be threatening and lucky in equal measure. Threatening for the four boundaries and two sixes he hit in his 28-ball 39 to bring South Africa back into the game from where they could fetch a win. Lucky for being dropped by Shreyas Iyer at deep square-leg, getting bowled by   off a no-ball and getting caught at deep mid-wicket off the free-hit that followed.
 
 By the time he left, caught leg-before by Chahal again, South Africa were 28 runs away from a win with allrounder Andie Phehlukwayo joining wicket-keeper-batsman Heinrich Klaasen in the middle. The two would eventually see South Africa through.
 
 Earlier in the day, left-handed opener   became the first Indian batsman to score a century in his 100th one-day International and along with captain   put together a 158-run stand for the second wicket.
 
 His century, along with Aiden Markram (of Hardik Pandya) and Bhuvneshwar Kumar’s (of  ) jaw-dropping catches had remained the most entertaining elements to the play. That is, of course, before South Africa’s chase met the required pace in extraordinary fashion.
 
 
 
