CHENNAI: The swanky metro rail transit hub at Central Station may be taking shape underground, but on the surface cracks remain. After bearing the brunt of tunnelling work for nearly six years, century-old heritage structures along the stretch await rehabilitation, but uncertainty continues on who will take up the responsibility.

 
  
  
 
 Tired of waiting for CMRL, Greater Chennai Corporation in January initiated restoration work costing `64 lakh on the 105-year-old Ripon Buildings. While the corporation has given up on CMRL, senior lawyers of Madras high court have decided to fight to get metro rail officials to fix the cracks in the 127-year-old law college building. Last month, the   issued a notice to   asking to fix the cracks. "They are yet to respond," said senior advocate N L Rajah. 
 
  
  
 The cash-strapped corporation awarded a contract to a Gujarat-based firm to fix the cracks caused or widened due to tunnelling. "Our safety is more important," said a senior corporation official. "We were tired of CMRL refusing to take responsibility," he said. Last week, a team from the private firm inspected the cracks in one of the courtyards, now supported by a temporary scaffolding. "The single crack has branched out to form smaller ones. The company will submit a report, following which work will begin," said the official. 
 
  
  
 A CMRL official said the damage caused by metro rail was attended to. "Whatever cracks developed because of metro rail construction have been repaired. We are not aware of any restoration work now," said the official, adding that Afcons, the company which built the tunnels and  , is in touch with IIT-M.
 
 But structural engineers say CMRL conducted temporary fixes. "Cracks were periodically filled so that rainwater ingress is prevented. The final repair work that involves strengthening is yet to be carried out," said an expert who has been part of the inspection team. The only structure CMRL will take complete responsibility for is Ramaswami Mudaliar Choultry — officials intend to convert it into a metro rail museum. Experts say   has been spared of cracks but the structure has sunk into the ground by at least five inches. Victoria Public Hall, which underwent a `4 crore restoration in 2012, will require only "minor repairs". 
 
 Experts from IIT-M, who have been monitoring heritage structures close to the upcoming Central Metro Station — Ripon Buildings, Victoria Hall, Siddique Sarai Mosque, Ramaswami Mudaliar Choultry and Dr Ambedkar Law College — said readings of the sensors in these buildings show they are stable and repairs can be undertaken. "All these structures have stabilised and it is essential that final repair work is executed," said Arun Menon, assistant professor, civil engineering, at IIT-M. He is part of the team that has been tasked by CMRL to monitor the health of these buildings since 2014.
 
 The damage, however, could have been prevented, notes a former member of the near defunct heritage committee of Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority, which approved metro rail’s alignment close to these buildings. "These colonial buildings are of excellent quality. But unreinforced masonry buildings lack ductility, brick masonry is brittle and cracks up easily," he said. "Everyone was aware of this, but chose to overlook it. If approving authorities had acted earlier, we could have avoided such a situation."
 
 
