MIDNAPORE/KOLKATA: Former West Midnapore SP Bharati Ghosh landed in more trouble when a Swarupnagar resident, businessman Euenus Ali  , filed a petition at the Midnapore chief judicial magistrate’s court on Wednesday, alleging that Ghosh and three policemen took Rs 45 lakh from him. They also allegedly took away an SUV and two trucks, which they later returned.

 Midnapore CJM Prasun Ghosh asked Kharagpur police station to treat the petition as an FIR and start a case.
 
 
 “We have asked the court to start a case against the four on IPC 409/ 403 and 166A and the court has directed the police to initiate a case,” Euenus’ lawyer Samit Bhanja said.
 
 On the same day, CID again raided on Ghosh’s Madurdaha residence. CID officers took the caretaker, Rajmangal Singh, to the Madurdaha flat for identification. Another CID team has left for Bihar.
  
  
 
 In another development, police have received a fresh complaint from  , who claimed himself to be the owner of Flat 2/C at Madurdaha. Ghosh’s husband MAV Raju had allegedly sought permission to use Chakraborty’s almirahs, but the complainant “had no idea that he was stashing illegal cash” in it.
 
 According to Euenus’s petition, Mondal’s brother Samad met with an accident on NH-6 at Sadatpur, under Kharagpur PS, while returning with Rs 45 lakh from Gopiballavpur in Jhargram in an SUV on September 24, 2016. According to the petition, after the accident, Chiranjib Ghosh, the then SI of Sadatpur outpost, Raj Sekhar Pyne, the then officer-in-charge of Kharagpur police station, and Sujit Mondal, personal assistant of Ghosh, took the car’s passengers to the police station and took away the money and seized the vehicle. They promised to return them the next morning after verification.
 
 Euenus reached the police station next morning, but was not given the money or the vehicle. He was told to meet Ghosh. Euenus claimed that when he reached Ghosh’s office he was told that the money and the vehicle would be returned 15 days after proper verification.
 
 “We have a transport and fruit business, but sometimes we trade cattle as well. The money was for purchasing cattle and we had to give the money back to our clients from our pocket,” he added.
 
 After that, Ghosh reportedly not only stopped taking his calls, but also seized two of their trucks and threatened to arrest them. Euenus informed DG Surajit Kar Purkayastha and the state home department and also filed a petition at Calcutta High Court in December 2016. The petition said that Ghosh had called and told him to withdraw the case. Euenus asked her to return the vehicles and the money. When Ghosh returned his vehicles, Euenus withdrew the case thinking he would get the money. But Ghosh allegedly never returned it.
 
