CHENNAI: For more than three years, many sub-inspectors in the state were unaware they held additional charge of child-welfare officers. They discovered it only recently when asked to attend an orientation programme on child-friendly policing. 

 Such confessions are among manythat have come to the fore at the ongoing training programme held for child welfare police officers in the state, organised jointly by the   high court, Unicef, Tamil Nadu police department and various child rights organisations and institutes.
 
 The programme, initiated by Madras high court judge and chairman of the JJ commitee, Justice S Manikumar, will be on till May 23 and has covered close to 700 police stations so far.
 
 According to Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, in every police station, at least one officer, not below the rank of assistant sub-inspector "with aptitude, appropriate training and orientation" should be designated as the child welfare police officer to exclusively deal with children, who are either victims or perpetrators, in co-ordination with the police, voluntary and non-governmental organisations. However, it wasn't until three years later that these officers were made aware they were designated as child welfare officers. 
 
 With children's issues, especially pertaining to rape, gaining limelight, police officials - who are usually the first point of contact for children in need of protection or those in conflict with law - have now woken up to the need to sensitise the force. As a first step, senior officers said, they would ensure child welfare officers who are transferred retain their designation in the new station. "This was one of the main challenges we faced. We will also ensure the training is not one-off. It will be an ongoing process," said a senior police officer.
 
 Andrew Sesuraj, state convener,  , who is among the trainers in the workshop, said another challenge policemen face is the lack of a concrete mechanism in handling children. "Many of them are committed to helping children but they were not aware of the procedures that need to be followed," he said. The poor coordination between the child welfare committees and the district child protection units has only acerbated the situation. "Besides making them aware of the laws, we also taught them basics on how cases pertaining to children can't be dealt with like they handle cases of adults - a fundamental mistake they make," he said. Recognising the lack of awareness among policemen,   along with Unicef will soon roll out short-term programmes on Child and Adolescent Developmental Psychology, Juvenile Justice (JJ) Act and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and other related subjects, for the police force. Loyola college, too, will soon start a similar short-term course for policemen. 
 
 
