Mysuru: Eminent mridanga exponent Vidwan Umayalapuram K Sivaraman will deliver the convocation address on the third graduation day of the Dr Gangubai Hangal Music and Performing Arts University, which is being held at the Nityotsava Convention Centre on Thursday.

 As many as 29 students will be awarded degrees on the occasion, of which 21 are postgraduate degrees. Gold medals will be awarded to eight students for their proficiency in particular subjects, while two will receive cash rewards. Geetha Hebbar, who has scored 82% in Hindustani vocals has bagged the first rank, besides winning the gold medals. Meanwhile, Vijaya has won two gold medals in Carnatic music. BK Mamatha and KN Hemalatha have respectively won gold medals in Hindustani and Carnatic vocals respectively.
 
 Geetha, a mother of a three-year-old daughter, appreciated the varsity for deciding to award achievers a real gold medal – the medal contains 1.25g of gold. Interestingly last year, the gold medals awarded to students last year only had a gold varnish over a silver medal.
 
 Delighted at having managed to come out on top, a visibly elated Geetha told TOI, “I am feeling really happy. This achievement woulod not have been possible without my husband’s support, and help from both the teachers, and the non-teaching staff at the university.” Geetha, who took a six-month-break to take care of her child while pursuing the course, added that she was keen on pursuing research in the field
 
 In a first, the   will have the   stamped on them. The varsity vice-chancellor Sarvamangala Shankar said, “Based on the instructions from the University Grants Commission (UGC), we will have the Aadhar number stamped on the degree certificates. Apart from this, we will also have a bar code.”
 
 Karnataka governor Vajubhai R Vala will preside over the convocation ceremony, while higher education minister Basavaraj Rayareddy will also be present on the occasion.
 
 Performance by alumni
 
 An orchestra comprising as many as 13 instruments will perform before the start of the ceremony. The orchestra is made of alumni of the varsity.
 
 Honorary doctorate
 
 Padma Shri awardee R Satyanarayana, veteran musicologist, coming from family of musicians will be honored with honorary doctorate by Dr Gangubhai Hangal Music and Performing Arts University during its convocation on Thursday. The university authorities had proposed three names but the governor zeroed in on Satyanarayana who is from Mysuru, according to the varsity authorities
 
 
