After showcasing various hues of love and romance through shows like ' ', 'Kuch Rang Pyar Ke Aise Bhi' and 'Badhe Acche Lagte Hain',   is now bringing you an untouched, breezy yet absorbing world of romance in ' '. 
 
 The show will premiere tonight and will air Monday to Friday at 11 pm. The story revolves around Siddhant Sinha ( ) and   (Palak Jain), whose love is unspoken but palpable, unexpressed but perceptible. 
 
 Dilip Jha, Writer and Producer, says, “I am very happy to collaborate with Sony once again. The series has two parts — one is a contemporary romance with nuances and nostalgia of first love. The other part is this larger-than-life drama of the 70s, where a young man is all set to take the entire world head on to make his way, while still being rooted and in love.”
 
 Danish Khan, EVP and Business Head, SET, says, “We are delighted to present Yeh Pyaar Nahi Toh Kya Hai and collaborate with  , the writer-producer, who had given Sony a great love story last year — Ek Duje Ke Vaaste. This show will give urban working couples and youngsters a great love story to end their day. It also marks our ambition to move from shooting in a studio set-up to a real location. This show will set a new benchmark in production quality on Indian Television."
 
 Along with the debutant lead pair — Namit Khanna (Siddhant Sinha) and Palak Jain (Anushka Reddy) — the show will feature an ensemble of talented artistes, including Manish Choudhary, Anuraag Arora, Alka Amin, Ankit Raj, Shahana Verma and  . 
 
 Coming back to the storyline, Siddhant races ahead to achieve fame and success in his career, but still finds a vacuum in his life. Anushka, the daughter of one of the biggest business tycoons in the country, is untouched by the opulence in which she has been brought up. She has everything which one could desire, but she cannot give up on her feelings for Siddhant. The question the show asks is, Yeh Pyaar Nahi Toh Kya Hai?
 
 Elaborating on show, Dilip Jha of Bindu & SJ Studios, adds, “Apart from great entertainment, I believe this show will also deliver a strong social message. One can look forward to great acting, fast-paced narrative and above par production standard. It will appeal to television’s regular audiences across age groups as well as as bring in new audience looking for new-age content.”
 
 One of the main highlights of Yeh Pyaar Nahi Toh Kya Hai is that it’s being shot in Delhi at real locations, to give its viewers a cinematic experience. 
 
