Kolkata: The state election commission could not announce the panchayat poll schedule even on Wednesday, torn as it was between two compulsions: holding the rural polls before the onset of Ramzan on May 16 and providing adequate security.

 Wednesday was the second day since the poll process passed into the scrutiny phase. On Thursday, withdrawal of nominations is set to begin. State election commissioner Amarendra Singh may also hear out panchayat officer on special duty Saurabh Das before announcing the poll dates.
 
 The state government and several Muslim organisations want a single-day election bef-ore the Ramzan month begins. The problem, in this scenario, is that the state doesn’t have adequate armed personnel for each of the 58,467 booths spread over 43,067 poll premises. 
 
 According to the last report from the director-general police, the state can provide 46,000 armed police and 12,000 lathi-wielding constables for the polls, which would make it impossible for the commission to provide at least one armed cop per booth. Representatives of 40 Muslim organisations, led by Nakhoda Masjid imam Md Safique Kasmi, met the state election commissioner on Wednesday and told him in no uncertain terms that they want the polls before the start of Ramzan. Representatives of some of the organisations, after coming out of the meeting, said they might even move court if the poll dates fell during Ramzan.
 
 The threat of moving court by the minority organisations looms large on the state poll panel’s initial plan to conduct a phased poll divided into two or three phases, given the inadequacy of armed forces for a single-phase poll. The commission can’t ignore the security aspect either, because it has to submit the security plan to the division bench of Calcutta High Court by May 4. Five years ago, in 2013, the same court had issued a ruling on what security for   ought to be, in a case between the West   State Election Commission versus the state government.
 
 The state poll panel, to be on the safer side, asked the state on Wednesday to submit its poll proposal in writing. At the same time, the commissioner asked for a report from the director-general of police on the availability of forces after ascertaining the law-and-order situation in the districts that had witnessed unabated violence since the election notification was made on March 31. What transpired in the scrutiny is that the commission will have no force at hand to tackle violence outside booths and hardly any force for area domination in the event of a single-day poll. The problem of holding polls in a phased manner is that at least one or two poll dates would then definitely fall during Ramzan, as the earliest poll date available with the commission keeping a 21-day gap from the last date of nominations on April 23 is May 14. 
 
 It appears that the situation is now headed towards a situation where the commission itself has to take a call on the security aspect. Experts say the Constitution gives plenary powers to the commission over “superintendence, direction and control” of the conduct of all elections. The commissioner’s proposed meet with the state government representative coincides with the tea-table discussion with intellectuals that Bengal governor Keshari Nath Tripathi has called at Raj Bhavan on Thursday. Political observers maintain that the state election commissioner may approach the governor over providing adequate forces for the panchayat polls.
 
 
