NAGPUR: The resident doctors at the   ( ) will be seeking legal advice on the issue of a junior resident and a lecturer who allegedly took Rs3000 from a patient’s relative for giving an injection for retinal surgery.

 The residents didn’t get any support from the college dean. The junior resident, Dr  , and lecturer, Vandana Iyer,working in the ophthalmology (eye) department, were arrested on January 29 and were released on bail on January 31.
 
 The residents, under the banner of Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD), GMCH branch, are also demanding that the head of the eye department must own up the responsibility of prescribing the medicine to be bought from outside the medical college. The residents are not ready to work under the present head Prof Ashok Madan as they claim that all medicines were being prescribed by the head. 
 
 “We met the college dean   who told us to follow the legal course of action and wait for the departmental inquiry report and not take up any path which could land them in trouble. We will be meeting a lawyer and take advice on the issue,” said Dr  , the MARD president at GMCH.
 
 Dr Niswade told TOI that the MARD members were pressuring him for expediting the inquiry and withdrawing charges against Dr Pradhan. “Now the issue is in the court. So, we must follow the legal course. I can give any official statement on the subject only after the departmental inquiry committee is submitted to me,” said the dean.
 
 The inquiry committee has Dr   and Dr YB Bansod, the heads of surgery and medicine departments respectively, and Dr R Gosavi, the medical superintendent as the members. They are expected to submit the report by Monday evening. The committee has already had its first round of investigations. But Dr Madan obtained anticipatory bail from the pre-empting any danger for himself.
 
 In the meantime, Dr Pravin Shingare, directorate of medical education and research (DMER) chief in Mumbai, told TOI that he had not got any documents yet on the issue from GMCH. But he would stand in support of his doctors if it is found that the money for the injection was being taken by all patients for the Avastin injection in good faith and intention for a long time as a practice.
 
 “Ideally, the department should have sent all the eight patients who received the injection to the private shop and submit their share of the money and bought an injection instead of collecting money individually from each patient. No doctor is supposed to be taking any money directly from a patient for any medicine not available in the college. I have had only telephonic conversation with the college dean. I will take any stand only after I get the written report. But if the process was being followed in good intention then I will stand by my doctors and fight the case for them,” said Dr Shingare.
 
 
