NEW DELHI: As the   2018 play-offs get underway today with table-toppers Sunrisers Hyderabad facing second-placed  , one man's name will perhaps attract more interest than others given his pedigree in knockout matches in the IPL.

 
 
 
 
 That would be  , an IPL behemoth. The tournament's all-time leading run-getter, the man who until this season had not missed a single IPL match, and the stroke-maker with a sensational record when it comes to IPL play-offs. With 427 from 13 innings in IPL play-offs, including five half-centuries, this is a man who raises his game in knockouts and over the weekend Raina gave an indication of what could come when he fashioned  's latest win with an unbeaten 61. 
 
 On that note, here are Raina's top performances in IPL play-offs down the years:
 
 
 
 
 After restricting KXIP to an under-par 112 in the second semi-final of the first IPL, CSK cruised to victory thanks to unbeaten half-centuries from opener   (51) and Raina, who came in at one-down. S Vidyut had lost his wicket for 6 in the third over but that was the only moment of celebration for KXIP that night. Raina, with four fours and four sixes, scored an unbeaten 55 and hit the winning boundary to seal a summit clash with eventual winners Rajasthan Royals. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Royal Challengers Bangalore topped the points table and made it to the play-offs, booking a first qualifier clash with second-placed CSK. Virat Kohli's 70 off 44 balls steered RCB to 175/4 at the Wankhede Stadium, and early in their chase CSK lost openers Hussey and Murali Vijay cheaply. In the previous two editions (2009 and 2010), Raina had failed to make an impact with a combined tally of 22 runs from his two semi-final appearances, but come 2011 he was back to his best. Raina fashioned three critical stands with Subramaniam Badrinath,   and Albie Morkel to keep them on course and was the fulcrum of CSK's chase with an unbeaten 73, studded with four fours and six sixes.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Following the pattern, with two underwhelming performances in CSK's next two play-off appearances, Raina roared back with a blazing unbeaten 82 off 42 deliveries in the first Qualifier of the sixth edition of the IPL at the Feroz Shah Kotla. Batting first, CSK made a strong start and in a repeat of their semi-final exploits during the first season, Hussey and Raina combined to plunder 168 runs between them. Both remained unbeaten to take CSK to 192/1. Though Hussey top-scored with 86, it was Raina who outperformed the Australian batsman with five fours and five sixes. The total was enough for CSK to book a fifth IPL final spot in six attempts.
 
 
  
  
 
 Before the start of the Eliminator against Mumbai Indians, Raina had marked his return to India's ODI squad and that too as captain. And he celebrated in style. Raina's contribution to victory was an unbeaten 54 off 33 balls, a match-winning innings that came from a situation in which CSK lost two wickets in one over and a third not long after. He batted calmly, ensuring that the good balls were knocked about and the loose ones hit towards the boundary. He counter-attacked against Harbhajan Singh, who dismissed   and   in one over, by hitting him over extra cover for six; then he targeted left-arm spinner  , who got Brendon McCullum, with a six over long-on. The winning runs also came from Raina's bat, courtesy a whipped four, and he was a shoo-in for Man of the Match, which was his fourth in IPL play-offs overall. During his brisk innings, Raina crossed 400 runs for the season, which meant it was the seventh time in a row he had done so. 
 
 
  
  
 
 The night belonged to Virender Sehwag who turned back the clock with a breathtaking century, helping KXIP to a mammoth 226 after being sent in by Dhoni. But Raina had other plans. His brief but manic stay at the crease must have sent chills down the collective spines of KXIP fans. After getting Faf du Plessis for a first-ball duck, KXIP were at the receiving end of a brutal Raina assault that shaped one of the greatest IPL innings. Twelve fours and six sixes during his 25-ball 87 threatened to pull off the highest ever successful run chase in IPL history. The highlight of his knock being the 33 runs he looted off Parvinder Awana in the final Powerplay over. That over cost KXIP two sixes and five fours. But a run-out off the first ball of the seventh over resulted in an unfortunate dismissal and even Dhoni could not prevent KXIP from defending the target as they managed 202/7 in 20 overs.
 
