Ryan Harris, in his brief Australia career, had become the leader of a vaunted pace pack between 2010 and 2015. He would have ended with much more than the 113 Test wickets he took if his career wasn't restricted to 27 Tests due to injuries.

 
 Now, Harris or 'Rhino' to his teammates, is in charge of the next generation Aussie cricketers after being appointed the head coach of the U-19 Australian team for the ongoing World Cup in New Zealand. With his boys taking on India in Saturday's final, Harris told Cricinfo that he was mighty impressed with the young Indian speedsters - Kamlesh   and Shivam  . The duo has set the stage on fire during the World Cup by consistently clocking in excess of 140kmph. "It's great to be talking about India and not talk about spin! They've got some really good bowlers there that bowl good pace, beautiful actions. I just watched them running into the wicket - it's so easy for them. It's great, it's a challenge for our guys," Harris told the website.
 
 "These guys haven't faced so many guys who are consistently up around 135-140 mark. It's a great challenge, it's fantastic to see some young fast bowlers coming out of India. Usually, we speak about spinners coming out of there," the former Queensland paceman said.
 
 Mavi has eight wickets in the tournament so far at an average of 15.5 while Nagarkoti, who touched 149kmph in the World Cup opener, has seven wickets at 15.14.
 
 In the tournament opener between the same teams, Australia conceded 328 and then saw their top order collapse to the Indian speedsters. "I think their batting is strong at the top, but I don't think their lower order has been really exposed -I guess our job is to get through those players at the top and get into the lower order," Harris said. "It can go against you but with the way they're playing, their top order is getting it done, so that's our job to get through them and expose the lack of cricket the lower order has had."
 
 
 
 
 Queenstown: Two-time champions Pakistan claimed third position at the   U-19 Cricket World Cup 2018 after their third-fourth position play-off match against Afghanistan was washedout on Thursday without a ball being bowled, here. Afghanistan and Pakistan were in Group D and though Afghanistan defeated Pakistan in their opener, Pakistan topped the group after Afghanistan lost to Ireland in their last group match.
 
