GURUGRAM: In a first in  , the state   has pressed into service   in the  . Apart from monitoring wildlife, these drones will be used for spotting and preventing any non-forest activity like cutting trees, building roads and encroachments, as well as mapping of the ecologically sensitive forest.

 To start with, two drones — a basic drone and an industrial drone — have been launched in the Aravalis. The forest department on Friday conducted a demonstration of these drones in the   area of the Aravalis.
 
 The drones have been introduced after green activists raised a concern over rising   in the Aravalis.
 
 While the basic drone can carry out survey, the industrial drone can be embedded with various sensors, including the thermal sensor, to spot any crime against wildlife or non-forest activity in real time. This drone is fitted with an optical sensor of 43 megapixels and a camera. It can fly up to 250 metres at a speed of more than 60 metres per hour. Both are equipped with night-vision cameras.
 
 “We successfully tested the two drones on Friday for survey and surveillance of forest and wildlife areas. These drones will help in high-resolution mapping, gathering terrain and vegetation information, preparing 3D models of forest and wildlife areas,” Vinod Kumar, chief conservator of forests (wildlife), Gurugram circle, told TOI.
 
 “These drones will help in gathering data of forest health, encroachments, the presence of wildlife to prepare management plans and developing decision support systems. The drones can take several pictures and videos that are better than satellite images and thus can be used for making a 3D model of the area,” he added.
 
 The project has been rolled out with an investment of Rs 20 lakh. Both the drones have been sourced from the US. The drones are connected to a server, which will be operated by the department. 
 
 Currently, a private company will help the department operate the drones. However, the company is also training staff of the wildlife department to carry out various projects with the help of drones.
 
 “It is a first-of-its-kind and a crucial step to protect the Aravallis. We are ready to take all significant steps to protect the forests in the state,” said state forest and wildlife minister Rao Narbir Singh.
 
 The drones were introduced in the wake of repeated demands from green activists. A high-level meeting was recently convened after the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEF & CC) asked the state and regional forest department to submit a status report on the deployment of the Aravalis task force. 
 
 The activists had also met Union minister Harsh Vardhan in December last year and raised concern over traps found in the Aravalis to capture wild animals.
 
 
