BENGALRURU: For the third year in succession, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara   (BBMP), led by the Congress-JD(S) coalition, presented a surplus budget. Presented by tax and finance standing committee chairman M Mahadev, who is part of the JD(S), the budget outlay for the financial year 2018-19 is an ambitious Rs 9,327 crore and, given the financial status of the civic body, it immediately begged the question — where would the money come from?

  
 With the state set for assembly elections in a few months, the budget proposals had something for everyone although the emphasis was on the poor. However, just how the Palike will execute its proposals remains to be seen.
 
 One project the Palike envisages is the construction of helipads in all eight zones of the city. The reasons cited are to provide air ambulance services and easy movement of VIPs; Rs 5 crore has been earmarked for the first phase of this project. The budget also proposes free Wi-Fi hotspots in 400 public places across major roads, bus stands and BBMP offices. The project will be implemented with assistance from the state government.
 
 Janoushadha centres, that offer medicines cheap, will be set up at   to reduce healthcare costs for the poor.
 
 Solid waste management continues to remain a bugbear and the budget has attempted to address this concern by proposing decentralised composting units in all wards. While the move is imperative, no real action plan appears to be in place.
 
 With the state budget allocating Rs 2,500 crore for the city, BBMP will extend its whitetopping works to 150km of arterial and sub-arterial roads. Under the   project, 25 TenderSURE roads, development of  , renovation of KR Market and other projects will be executed.
 
 The budget proposes setting up automated pay-and-park stations at  , MG Road (near Commercial Street), Dispensary Road and Shivajinagar (opposite Russel Market) under public-private partnership. Similar plans were announced in past budgets, but none took off. Being an election year, no extra taxes have been levied on the citizens.
 
 
 
 Though most of the lakes in the city require urgent attention, the budget has set aside only Rs 20 crore for the development of 40 lakes. It has proposed cosmetic measures such as planting medicinal saplings lakeside under the ‘Dhanvanthari’ programme. It has set aside Rs 50 lakh for this.
 
 
 
 
 Mahadev, chairman, standing committee for taxation and finance, proposed several social welfare schemes like multistoreyed apartments for slum dwellers, free safety kits for all pourakarmikas and free bus passes for members of the transgender community. Women’s toilets will be built at all government offices. As much as Rs 63 crore has been allocated for welfare programmes such as providing tricycles, Jaipur foot and financial assistance for selfemployment for the disabled. Rs 5 crore has been set aside for the welfare of senior citizens and Rs 10 lakh for women welfare.
 
