CHANDIGARH: More students might be able to pursue   and sociology at the postgraduate level as   (SGGSC), Sector 26, plans to start MSc (physics) and MA (sociology) from the 2018-19 academic session.

  
  
 
 
 At the undergraduate level, the   wants to introduce NSS (National Service Scheme) as an elective with Bachelor of Arts. It has submitted a proposal with the Panjab University to start the courses, which will be introduced subject to approval.
 
 Meanwhile, the college released its prospectus for the academic year 2018-2019 on Thursday.
 
 The college, which has been popular for its varied achievements in sports and cultural activities, has won Sir Shaadi Lal Trophy for General Championship in Sports (Panjab University) for 10 consecutive years.
 
 The prospectus was released by Colonel Jasmer Singh Bala (retd), secretary, Sikh Educational Society of the college management, along with principal Dr Jyoti Lamba.
 
 The college currently offers 10 undergraduate courses and 13 postgraduate courses across three streams.
 
  
  
 
 But, the college plans to introduce three new courses for the academic session 2018-2019 that is has proposed to the Panjab University and aresubjectto approval.Two of them are postgraduate courses — MSc (physics) and MA (Sociology) — along with NSS (National Service Scheme) being offered as an elective with Bachelor of Arts.
 
 “We had been planning to begin these courses for a whilebecause weknow a lot of students are interested in a course like this and somehow the seats tend to be limited in Panjab University and all its affiliated colleges. We have sent the proposal to Panjab University and we are expecting a response of approval soon,” said Dr Jyoti Lamba, principal, SGGS College, Sector 26.
 
 The college will offer as many as 60 seats in MA (sociology), 40 seats in MSc (physics) and around the same in NSS elective with a BA degree.
 
 Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26 has also become the only college in the city to offer a course in religious and Sikh studies as an elective optional course. The course, which was started last year, is currently in its second year with as many as 40 seats.
 
 The college has received a grant of Rs 1 crore under RUSA (Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan) which has been used to revamp its library which has been digitalised and has been enabled with new technology like INFLIBNET and DELNET (development library network) databases. The new technology has been introduced to facilitate online access of e-resources through N-list programmes.
 
 Additionally, a portion of the RUSA grant will also be spent to make place for lawn tennis and a basketball court in the college.
 
