Thanjavur: In order to help coconut  , the Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology (IIFPT) has planned to release ‘neera’ by September of this year.

 While addressing the state level seminar on supply chain management of small onion and coconut neera, organised by IIFPT in Thanjavur in association with the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agribusiness on Friday, director of IIFPT C   said that IIFPT is working on   and by September 2018, a range of technologies, new processing units and value-added products from coconut and neera will be released for the benefit of coconut growers.
 
 “IIFPT entered into a MoU with Banana Producers Company, Trichy and   for development of technologies for value addition and processing of these products,” he said.
 
 Project coordinator, supply chain management, Chennai, Ilango talked about the importance of developing R&D solutions for processing, value addition and storage of coconuts, black gram, tomatoes and onions, particularly for the benefit of the farming community. 
 
 The district collector A Annadurai talked about the potential of coconut processing and value addition. After Coimbatore, Thanjavur district stands second in the production of coconut and hence the locality suits best for the seminar.
 
 Commissioner, Agricultural Marketing and Agribusiness, government of Tamil Nadu, Chiru asked farmers to gain information, knowledge and a vision to increase their income through agro-processing and value addition. 
 
 Tamil Nadu also anticipates the establishment of a new Mega Food Park. He also listed the health benefits of neera and added that food safety and profitable sector in neera should be established.
 
 Agricultural production commissioner and principal secretary to government,   in his address said that small and medium farmers having adjacent lands can join together and collectively practice cooperative farming where provisions are available for the purchase of agricultural inputs at subsidised prices, he said.
 
 “Around 2000 Farmer Producer Company has been established across the state. A processing unit will be established in Trichy district as well for processing and value addition of small onions,” he added. Mathiyalagan, Join Director of agriculture delivered the vote of thanks.
 
 
