Despite all the struggles that have come their way, these women para-athletes have scripted truly inspirational stories. On  , today, they open up to Chennai Times on how they fought fears, suicidal thoughts, criticisms and physical impediments, to emerge victorious.

 
  
 In 2001, I had to undergo a spinal surgery. But that went terribly wrong and I was left a paraplegic for the rest of my life. I couldn’t accept the disability as I was a normal person till then. I was completely shattered and even attempted suicide. I was bed-ridden and had to depend on others for everything. It took nearly eight years for me to come out of the mental trauma. The books that I read back then slowly motivated me and helped me move forward in life. I started doing physiotherapy at home and it started showing results. Though I had to give up studies in 2001, I managed to complete Class 10 almost after a decade. Later, I completed diploma and passed Plus Two also. It was in 2014 that I came to know about physically challenged people participating in runs. There was so much negativity from many around me, and they said that it would be really tough for a person like me to do it. But I was motivated. I went for it and successfully completed the 10km run. Since then, I have been regularly participating in the event every year. Later, I picked up shot put, javelin throw and discuss. I have gotten selected in the state team and later this month, I will be competing in the National Para Athletic Championship in Haryana, representing Tamil Nadu. Today, I am also a motivational speaker. It’s all in the mind. First, one has to accept the disability and then find his/her strengths to overcome that.
 —  , para-athlete 
 
  
  
 
 
 I was born with a congenital disability that hindered the rotation of my right arm. And I picked up swimming as part of my therapy. There have been many challenges that I had to face to come this far — time management, balancing studies and swimming, criticism when I was unable to compete with regular swimmers, etc. Though I was interested in both badminton and swimming, I felt that swimming gave me more hand mobility and I’ve 
 always felt that I am a water baby. My family has been my pillar of strength. I am blessed with a family 
 background where there is no discrimination. And I study in a co-ed school. I also practise with male swimmers and we all do the same workouts. Being organised, planned, determined, focused and self-confident has empowered me. I’ve been winning gold medals in national para-swimming competitions for the past three years. In December 2017, I also won a silver medal in the 100m breast stroke at Asian Youth Para Games in Dubai.
 —  , para-swimmer
 
 
  
 
 
 I was born and brought up in a rural place in Andhra Pradesh. I was affected by polio when I was seven months old. There was no accessibility to wheelchair during my childhood and I had to be literally carried around. But my parents ensured me good education and that fetched me a nice job. But because of inactivity, my health deteriorated in 2008. I was 37 years old then. The disease had compressed my spinal cord and covered one of my lungs fully and the other one partially. Lack of oxygen made my muscles also go weak. I was immediately asked to undergo a surgery. But doctors told me that my chances of surviving more than a year even after the surgery was bleak. Meantime, I also started doing hydrotherapy, which I was told would be effective. But everyone was so scared about me getting into water, considering my physical condition. But I felt the therapy quite effective and that’s when corporate Olympiad was announced in our office. I registered my name also for swimming. You won’t believe, I was the only differently abled person among all other swimmers. I finished 100m freestyle in a 50m pool with 10ft depth. Everyone cheered me so much and that was such a motivational boost. Later, I went on to represent Tamil Nadu and won three gold medals in Para Swimming National Championship. And that motivated me to start this initiative called ‘Yes We Too Can’. Through this initiative, I address people with disabilities and create awareness on how sports can bring about a change in their lives. In 2013, I was approached by a UK-based NGO, Choice International, and that led me to wheelchair basketball. Today, the   Federation of India (WBFI) is a body recognised by the International Basketball Federation, and our players attend several international matches. 
 —  , president, WBFI
 
  
  
 
 I have been having this ortho deformity by birth and I walk on toes. My parents have always been very supportive. While in school, I was more into athletics and picked up basketball only a few years ago. I love it because it’s a team sport and it’s good to be with people who always encourage you. The wheelchair basketball has been doing really well and if we manage to get good support from the government, we will be able to represent the country in 2020 Paralympic Games.
 — A Hindu, India wheelchair basketball player 
 
  
  
 
 
 I work at the Office of the Accountant General in Chennai. It was only after joining there that I came to know about wheelchair basketball. Earlier, we used to practise at the Nehru indoor stadium, but we have shifted from there to Kilpauk now. But the problem is that we practise outdoors as the indoor stadium is mostly booked. Because of that we get lesser practice time, and we also don’t have the right kind of training for indoor games. Despite all that, the Indian women’s team, which I am part of, is doing really well. Now, we are in Bangkok for the Asian Para Games qualifiers. This is our third international outing as a team. 
 — Vinolia Violet, India wheelchair basketball player
 
  
  
 
  
 It was to lose postpartum weight that I picked up wheelchair basketball. I had knee pain and other complications because of my weight. Now, I am quite hooked to the sport. I was affected by polio when I was only one-and-a-half-years old.
 — A Mari Lakshmi, India wheelchair basketball player
 
 
  
 
 
 I am 16 and I’m doing Plus One in MLM Mamallan Matric Higher Secondary School in Kanchipuram. I am born without a thumb finger on my left hand. And the left hand is shorter when compared to the right. I have been playing badminton for the last five years. Since it’s an individual sport, I am able to give my best without depending on another person. But sometimes, I play with my sister, doubles against able-bodied athletes.In 2015, I was selected for the Para Badminton World Championships. But I faced a major challenge there as I was not classified properly and forced to play using my defect hand. I simply had to go, stand there on the court and lose the game. But that didn’t stop me from achieving accolades after that. In 2016, I won singles gold in School Games and again, won medals in Khelo India in 2017.
 — Thulasimathi M, para-badminton player
 
