ZIRAKPUR: In an era of swift administrative processes, a resident of Zirakpur has been running from pillar to post for the last three months to get the information in his voter ID corrected. 

 Much to Ashok Kumar’s dismay, his voter ID carries wrong name, address and even pin code. However, he is not the only unfortunate one. There are more than 200 residents facing the same problem but are clueless as to how to get the mistakes rectified. 
 
 Satpal, a resident of one of the societies, received his voter ID card carrying wrong name, flat number, name of the society and pin code. In fact there are large numbers of residents who applied for their   in November last year, but till date they have neither got any information nor the card. In fact, the list of residents waiting for their card is only getting longer. 
 
 Manoj Das, a resident of Zirakpur said that a voter ID camp was set up in their society in November last year in which residents of Savitry Greens 2 Gazipur Road applied for their voter cards, he being one of them. Approximately 55 residents applied but none has received the card yet. “This is how genuine voters are deprived to facilitate fake voters,” he said.
 
 P K Sharma, chairman, confederation of resident welfare association, Zirakpur north and a resident of Aero Homes Society said those in his society who received their cards were struggling to get the facts corrected and the rest were still waiting for the cards to arrive. He added none of the residents was able to use his voter ID cards as a resident proof since the facts were all wrong. 
 
 Ashish Jain, a resident of   said that many voter cards didn’t carry the names of the societies but the name of the village was printed. The residents did raise the matter with the concerned authorities but that has come a cropper. 
 
 One of the resident of the Aero Homes society said that a person who in his personal capacity took upon himself to correct the errors, took Rs 50 from each resident camped in Aerohomes, Ananta and Savitri Greens-2. Three months have passed, but nothing concrete has been done to help the residents. Addresses mentioned in the cards are incomplete and wrong. Residents complained they also visited the Election Department of SDM Office, Derabassi but their system was at a fault. 
 
 Jyoti Sidana, a resident of Ananta Homes of Gazipur Road said that a campaign was conducted in her society in January and approximately 100 forms were given to private service provider for this purpose. “But till date no verification has been done by the Block Level Officer or authorities and there has been no confirmation from authorities,” she said. 
 
  leader Deepinder Singh Dhillon said the department would conduct a revision of the voter ID cards and also generate new ones. He said that the voter ID cards would be rectified by the department during the revision process. 
 
 
