BHOPAL: The members of Sindhi community took out a protest march on Sunday to raise the issue of their citizenship. The Sindhi residents of   marched from   to  . “The protest was staged as many Sindhis who migrated to Bhopal from Pakistan years ago still have not been given the nationality,” said a protester.

 As many as 24 Sindhi Panchayats under the banner of   organised the rally to press their seven-point demands, said Sindhi Central Panchayat president and former Vidhan Sabha principal secretary, Bhgawan Das Israni.
 
 The march ended with a public meet at Iqbal Maidan. Israni said the community members have also submitted a memorandum to chief minister  , listing their demands. “We will go on a hunger strike if no action is taken,” he said.
 
 “The citizenship issue has been in a limbo for 71 years now. Over the last many years, we have seen that the government is not working for the Sindhi community. Our business establishments are being targeted for no reason,” said the community leader .
 
 Giving the example of shops at Mini Market, Israni said that the government razed the livelihood of many Sindhi for beautification of the area. “The businesses we established in over 40 years were lost in a day. The government should compensate the affected,” he said.
 
 He said the government had given the community members land on lease in Bairagarh when they first migrated from Pakistan, but now it is not being renewed.
 
 “To ensure better representation, the panchayat has also sought representation in the Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha in ratio of their population,” said Israni.
 
 In 2016, Shivraj Singh Chouhan had directed the district collector to provide the nationality to Sindhi community people who have settled here from Pakistan within two years but 13 months have passed without any progress.”
 
 Sheela Balchandani, principal, Sheel Niketan School, said, “Due to citizenship issue, people who have been living here for as long as three decades are struggling for basic things including driving licence, ration card, and voter ID.”
 
 When TOI asked ARTO Sanjay Tiwari about the same, he said, “I don’t know about such notification but I will ask my officers to get it checked and if such order was issued then we will start issuing them their driving license from Monday.”
 
 Harish Meghani, member of panchayat, said, “Every second year we have to get our long-term visa renewed which is a headache for us as the questions asked during police verification process are no less than a harassment.” Collector Sudam Khade told TOI, “We have provided citizenship to people whose formalities are completed.   report of few applicants is still pending as soon as we will get them, we will provide citizenship to them too.”
 
