Surat: The Diamond City is all set to get a modular cargo terminal at Surat airport by December 2018.  The groundbreaking ceremony was performed for the construction of modular cargo terminal at the airport premises on Tuesday. The construction of the terminal is likely to be completed by December 2018, official sources said. Airports Authority of India had invited proposals from engineering firms across the country for setting up a state-of-the-art cargo terminal. In October 2016, the AAI had given administrative approval for setting up the modular cargo terminal. AAI sources said administrative approval and expenditure sanction (AAES) have been accorded and that the tender was issued at a cost of Rs 8 crore.  The modular cargo terminal will be a steel-based structure to be constructed on the land between the Air Traffic Control (ATC) and the terminal building. The ground base of the cargo will be 1,000 square metre and the first floor will have the same size. The cargo terminal will have a cold storage facility for export of perishable items.  “The cargo terminal will go a long way in expanding the cargo business in south Gujarat, including Surat, due to huge potential of valuable cargo, perishable cargo and regular cargo. The groundbreaking ceremony has been performed and the construction work started,” an officer at Surat airport said.  Sources said major reason behind the city not getting the air cargo facilities all these years was lack of air connectivity from Surat airport. Air connectivity between Surat and Mumbai is of utmost requirement for starting air cargo facilities. South Gujarat has an agro export potential of more than 5,000 metric tonne per annum. About Rs 40,000 crore worth of polished diamonds are directly exported via Surat Hira Bourse (SHB) custom house to Mumbai and around the world per annum. The textile exports per annum is pegged at Rs1,200 crore. All the textile exports are done via Mumbai ports and cargo terminal.  A simple estimate of production and export of mango and chickoo from the region shows that the two seasonal fruits together constitute over Rs 700 crore worth of export market annually. Flowers of different varieties, including roses, worth Rs 150 crore per annum are exported to various parts of the world. Similarly Rs 150 crore agro-based perishable food items like jams, jellys, pickles, pulps have export market from the region. At present, this whole lot of perishable items are exported to various countries via Mumbai. Surat is the hub of shrimp farming in south Gujarat. Shrimps to the tune of over Rs 700 crore are supplied to Mumbai via containers. “SGCCI has made tremendous efforts to bring cargo terminal facilities in Surat. We look forward to the day when Dubai, Sharjah, Abu Dhabi etc will get fresh fruits, vegetables and other delicacies of Surat the same day,” Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s aviation committee member Manoj Singapuri said.