AHMEDABAD/ VADODARA: One of the most common infections today is now becoming seriously difficult to treat. Urinary tract infection (UTI) which is extremely common, now manages to survive multiple rounds of antibiotic treatment, require bacterial cultures, and last much longer than the usual few days. And in a few cases, it becomes life threatening.

 
 A detailed study spanning close to a year and involving analysis of 2,354 urine samples of men and women tested at BJ Medical college and GMERS, Gotri in Vadodara has revealed that more than 60% of resistance was seen against antibiotic drugs like Ampicillin, cephalosporins, Cotrimoxazole and Ciprofloxacin — some of the most widely used drugs for treating UTI.
  
  
 Some of the vast majority of UTI cases are caused by bacteria like Escherichia coli (E.Coli), with other pathogens including Klebsiella spp, Pseudomonas spp, Proteus mirabilis, coliforms, Enterococci spp, Staphylcoccus spp. “A major cause of drug resistance in uropathogens of UTI is due to extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBL) production — which are enzymes secreted by the bacteria that makes them resistant to antibiotic drugs like penicillins, third generation cephalosporins (Cefotaxime, Ceftriaxone and Ceftazidime) and monobactam such as Aztreonam,” says one of the investigators, SM  , a tutor at the department of microbiology, GMERS medical college, Vadodara.
 
 A majority of the UTI infections, 59.82% were found in women. UTI occurred more commonly in women due to their anatomy — short urethra and proximity to anal opening. Men usually are less prone to UTI as compared to women, due to the longer course of the urethra and bacteriostatic (bacterial growth resistant) properties of prostate secretions, found the study. 
 
 The study also showed that most UTI patients were in the age group of 20-49 years and were more prone to recurring UTI.
 
 The only silver lining in the research was that all infected urine samples were found to be sensitive to antibiotic drugs like Polymyxin B (100%) and to Imipenem (97.01%).
 
 Maruwala had analysed the urine samples with lead researcher, professor P K Shah and M M Vegad, resident doctors V J Patel and F V Patel of BJ medical college. “Such high drug resistance has happened because doctors have been widely prescribing drugs with high concentration of antibiotic agent from the very beginning of treatment. They should have actually begun with low concentration,” says Maruwala.
 
 
