PUNE: A special court here on Monday extended till May 2 the police custody remand of two directors, of a private company in Delhi, arrested for making payment gateways for the prime suspects in the multi-crore cryptocurrency fraud case.

 Sahil Bagla (28) and Nikunj Jain (29), both directors of   company, were arrested from Delhi on April 21 and remanded in police custody till April 30. Investigating officer   of the city police’s cyber crime cell produced the duo before special judge J T Utpat on Monday and moved a plea for their further custodial remand.
 
 Judge Utpat considered the investigating officer's plea that the police have yet to trace Rs 1 crore transferred to Satoshi Studio, a joint venture incubator floated by Bagla, Jain and prime accused Amit Bharadwaj, while extending the duo's custodial remand till May 2.
 
 Defence lawyers   and   had opposed extension of custodial remand on the grounds that sufficient police custody was granted to Bagla and Jain and the alleged Rs 1 crore amount was with the absconding suspect. As such, no custodial interrogation was necessary. The court, however, relied on the grounds mentioned in the police remand report.
 
 The remand report, referring to the probe done so far against Bagla and Jain, stated that police seized over 32 Bitcoins from Bagla and over 125 Bitcoins from Jain, besides having recovered the e-mail conversation they had with Amit Bharadwaj. Jain had hired the services of a lawyer and a professional accountant for siphoning of the Gain Bitcoin firm profits to various foreign countries and also preparing grounds against the hand over or extradition of the main accused, the report stated.
 
 Through Satoshi Studio, the suspects diverted Rs 1 crore raised through Bitcoin investments to other sources and the police have also initiated a look out circular for  , who is described as the brain behind creating gateways for the suspects. The police stated that they wanted to interrogate Bagla and Jain about the crypto mining pool coding they had prepared for Amit Bharadwaj and also trace the server used for the crime. They also needed to trace the gateways through which money was diverted.
 
 
