CHANDIGARH: University of Sheffield and University of Johannesburg has taken Panjab University (PU) on board to study substance use, abuse and their related affects and disorders on the population in South Asia and South Africa. Inter-disciplinary in nature, the project will bring in neurologists, psychologists, and anthropologists together to carry out the study. The   experts will engage in studying substance abuse in Punjab. 

 “We would like to examine the role of biochemical in addictive behaviour. With the assistance of other departments, the university is going to study the sociological and anthropological aspects of the substance abuse and its neurological impacts on the drug users in Punjab. An NGO will also be working with us on the study,” said  , coordinator of the project from PU. 
 
 The department of psychology, department of anthropology and Centre for Human Rights & Duties of PU will collaborate on the project. 
 
 As a part of the research methodology, regional case studies would be taken up. The project will engage in two case studies- one on Punjab and the other one would be the South African city of  . According to the proposal, two post-doc fellows including a historian and an anthropologist each, would work on both these regions. Workshops and conferences would also be organised as part of the project. PU will organise the first workshop on April 6. 
 
 The research methodology also includes analysis of consumption and regulation of substances. Moreover, digitized database of practices of consumption, treatment, opinion and regulation will be created and made publicly accessible. The study will also include oral interviews of the law enforcement officials, substance users, NGOs, health officials and bureaucrats of Punjab and New Delhi who hold an expertise on the issue and are working on this. 
 
 IIT Guwahati has also collaborated with the University of Sheffield and University of Johannesburg on the project of substance disorders and social practices in post-colonial societies. The study will have a comparative and historical approach. 
 
 
