
 
  
 
 Known for: A charm of her own and portrayal of intense characters, like Kumud in ' ' and Maya in 'Beyhadh'. She is currently seen in 'Bepannah' as a lovelorn wife whose husband dies in an accident.
 
 Divorced from Karan Singh Grover in 2016, she is currently single. A few months ago, there were rumours of a link-up with co-actor Sehban Azim. However, both of them have refuted it. 
 
 
 
 Known for: She has a huge following on social media, owing to her bold pictures and frank opinions. Known for her bindaas attitude, Nia is not someone to be messed with as she speaks her mind and follows her heart. Last seen on Fear Factor: 'Khatron Ke Khiladi 8', the actress is waiting for a challenging role to come her way.
 
 Single
 
 
 
 Known for: Popular for her turn as naagin, this Bengali beauty has slithered her way into the hearts of the audience. Considered as one of the sexiest actresses on TV, Mouni has now set her eyes on Bollywood. She has been signed on for two films, including the Akshay Kumar-starrer 'Gold' and 'Brahmastra', which features Ranbir Kapoor and Alia Bhatt in lead roles.
 
  She is dating her 'Devon Ke Dev...Mahadev' co-actor Mohit Raina.
 
 
 Known for: Erica twirled her way into our hearts with her portrayal of Dr Sonakshi Bose in 'Kuch Rang Pyar Ke Aise Bhi'. Her crackling chemistry with co-actor Shaheer Sheikh also added to her popularity. This Miss India 2011 participant has also dazzled in Kannada, Tamil and Telugu films.
 
  Was rumoured to be dating Shaheer Sheikh, but the two have always denied it. 
 
 
 Known for: She is considered to be one of the most stylish actresses on TV today. With her lustrous hair, green eyes and lithe figure, she is called the Rapunzel of the small screen. The show, ' ' gave her a chance to showcase her comic skills for the first time. 
 
  Rumoured to be dating her 'Ek Hazaaron Mein Meri Behna Hai' co-actor Karan Tacker.
 
 
 Known for: Her outing as Goddess Parvati in 'Devon Ke Dev...Mahadev'. She is currently a part of the historical show, 'Prithvi Vallabh'. On screen, she is seen wielding swords and riding the horse like a true warrior, taking us back to the royal era. In real life, the sexy and voluptuous lady turns up the heat on social media with her sizzling pictures.
 
 Single
 
 
 Known for: After making her foray into daily soaps as the quintessential bahu, the gorgeous girl is now impressing viewers with her comic timing on reality shows. 
 
  Engaged to actor Kunal Verma, who she worked with on the TV show, 'Tujh Sang Preet Lagai Sajna'.
 
 
 
 Known for: A self-confessed fitness freak, there is no stopping this actress. By her own admission, she is comfortable in her skin and doesn’t mind flaunting her hot curves for the shutterbugs. Recently, the actress stunned everyone with a semi-nude photo shoot. She is currently seen on two shows — 'Porus' and 'Khichdi'.
 
  Married 
 
 
 
 Known for: They say humour is sexy and that holds true for this beautiful lady. Known for her impeccable comic timing, Ridhima catapulted to fame as the humanoid in the show 'Bahu Humari Rajni_Kant'. 
 
  Split from Hrithik Roshan’s cousin Eshaan in December last year, following a courtship of 10 years.
 
 
 
 Known for: Portraying the dutiful Akshara in 'Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai' for almost eight years before she quit the show in 2016. Her stint on 'Bigg Boss' last year and rivalry with fellow inmate Shilpa Shinde changed her demure bahu image. 
 
 Dating Rocky Jaiswal, who worked on her first daily soap 'Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai' as the production head. 
 
 
 
 Known for: This beautiful actress was part of shows like 'Amrit Manthan' and 'Behenein', but her snake act in 'Naagin' made her popular.
 
  Was dating actor Ankit Gera. Currently, she is single. 
 
 
 
 Known for: Shama has a perfect bikini body and an impressive fashion sense. Her journey in showbiz is inspiring, too. 
 
  Engaged to US businessman James Miliron. 
 
 
 
 Known for: She rose to fame with ' ' and has also featured in the Bollywood film, 'Bobby Jasoos'. This former corporate girl now loves flirting with the camera. 
 
  Single 
 
 
 
 
  
 Known for: The leggy lass will soon be seen on 'Naagin 3'. 
 
  Was in a relationship with Upen Patel, after they participated in 'Bigg Boss' a couple of years ago. Now single. 
 
 
 
 Known for: The glamorous Surbhi Jyoti, who prefers keeping a low-profile, is known for her roles in 'Qubool Hai' and 'Koi Laut Ke Aaya Hai'. She is now gearing up for Naagin 3. 
 
 Single 
 
 
 
 Known for: The pretty girl from Delhi has been a part of shows like 'Main Lakshmi Tere Aangan Ki' and 'Tumhari Pakhi'. She is currently seen on 'Kundali Bhagya'. 
 
 Single
 
 
 
 Known for: The talented actress started her career as an anchor on Zoom, and went on to play Draupadi in Mahabharat. She currently plays Mahakali.
 
  Single
 
 
 
 Known for: She is active on social media and recently, her bikini pictures went viral. Rubina is popular for her role of a kinnar on 'Shakti — Astitva Ke Ehsaas Ki'. 
 
  Engaged to Abhinav Shukla. 
 
 
 
 Known for: The stylish actress started her career as a model and is currently seen in 'Jijaji Chhat Par Hai'. 
 
  Was dating her co-actor Pearl V Puri while doing 'Meri Sasu Maa'. She is currently single. 
 
 
 
 Known for: The actress with expressive eyes plays the glamorous Bhavya in 'Ishqbaaz'. 
 
  Mansi is engaged to actor Mohit Abrol. The couple plans to tie the knot sometime soon. 
 
 
