PANAJI: After futile attempts to revive the stinking   creek through multiple agencies, the state government has now asked Imagine   Smart City Development Limited, the agency formed to implement the   to try its hand. To try and resolve the decade-old issue, officials say that a special taskforce has been set up under the leadership of chief minister   to ensure that all agencies involved coordinate in the fresh efforts. 

 Sources say that in the last fortnight of December, Parrikar asked Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation to hand over the St Inez creek project to the Smart City Mission directorate.
 
 Decades of dumping of garbage, encroachment and mismanagement of sewage has turned the creek into a stagnant water body. A study by the   (GSPCB), based on samples collected from 27 different locations, detected raw sewage contamination in the water body.
 
 “The government has conveyed its decision that the project should be handed over to the Smart City Mission. The detailed project report (DPR) prepared by GSIDC has already been handed over,” chief executive officer of Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Limited Swayan Chaudhuri said.
 
 A preliminary inspection of the creek has begun and engineers of Imagine Panaji Smart City Development are evaluating the DPR prepared by GSIDC to understand the efforts or steps that have already made.
 
 GSIDC had prepared a DPR through LKS consultancy seeking funds to revitalize and beautify St Inez creek under the   (JNNURM). The Union ministry of urban development had sanctioned Rs 19.46 crore to the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) in March 2014 and had given CCP 24 months to utilize the funds and implement the project.
 
 CCP had then transferred the project to GSIDC in May 2014 on the grounds that CCP did not have the technical expertise to return the creek to its earlier state.
 
 “There is a taskforce set up under the chairmanship of the chief minister which includes all stakeholders. There will be a joint meeting of CCP, Goa State Pollution Control Board and department of water resources to ensure proper coordination,” said Chaudhuri.
 
 
