HUBBALLI: A 26-year-old man was killed on Monday as two families belonging to different communities clashed in Islampur near Gousiya town in  . The fight broke out allegedly over one of the families playing loud DJ music on Sunday night. 

 Police sources said a man belonging to the Hindu Ambiger family was beaten up by the Kalwad family, who are Muslims, after he objected to the loud music. 
 
 In the melee that followed,   was allegedly stabbed by members of the other group. He was shifted to KIMS hospital for treatment and died of stab injuries in the early hours of Monday.
 
 Ambigeri was working as a driver. He is survived by his wife and two children.
 
 Five men - Aslam Kalwad, Hateek Kalwad, Afridi Kalwad, Anwar Kalwad and   - have been arrested for the murder. A case has been registered with Kasabapet police station.
 
 Following Ambigeri's death, members of Hindu outfits in the city went to KIMS hospital and held a protest demanding action against the culprits who stabbed him. Police pacified them and promised to take immediate action. 
 
 But tension prevailed when Ambigeri's body was brought to his house in Islampur. Relatives, neighbours and members of Hindu outfits did not allow the body to be taken for cremation. They demanded Rs 25 lakh compensation for the bereaved family and urged the deputy commissioner and police officers to visit the spot. 
 
 Security was tightened in and around Islampur and DC S B   and police commissioner M N Nagaraj rushed to the spot. They held talks with the protesters and assured of action. 
 
 The DC said he will immediately sanction Rs 5 lakh compensation and a house under the Ashraya scheme. He promised to write to the government to grant higher compensation and a government job for Ambigeri's wife. The protesters then withdrew their agitation and allowed cremation. Nagaraj said the two families had fought over a trivial issue and there was no communal angle to it. He appealed to people not to be swayed by rumours.
 
 
