Gurgaon: The Delhi Bird Foundation had sought the National Green Tribunal’s intervention against the construction and demolition (C&D) waste treatment plant coming up at  . In its latest order, the NGT has said project proponent   should resume construction of the plant as per laws and rules.

 The order, a copy of which is with TOI, reads, “The order is susceptible to mischievous interpretation since the order records not to set up any machinery, equipment and operate the same therein for running the facilities of C&D waste processing without obtaining authorization from HSPCB.” 
 
 Pankaj Gupta, one of the petitioners, said, “We had filed for an intervention because the earlier NGT order said MCG has to build the plant as per rules, without specifying what they were. We wanted the court to specify which rules the C&D plant construction has to follow, so that MCG can’t go against it.” 
 
 He added that for the project, while MCG has approvals under the Water and Air Act, as well as from HSPCB, they do not yet have approvals under the C&D Rules. Reacting to the NGT order, MCG officials said they are happy the order has clarified that they are now free to carry on with the project. 
 
 “There was some confusion over the approvals. The latest order has clarified that. The intervention application has come as a boon in disguise for us, since it says we need permission from the pollution control board, which we already have,” said MCG senior town planner Sudhir Singh Chouhan.
 
 The order further states the court had earlier said MCG would not take up any construction work on the site, but that earlier order is now vacated, since the land under discussion has not been declared “wetland” by the Haryana government. Earlier this month, the green court had vacated the stay on construction of the C&D waste treatment plant in Basai. Now, the court has also directed MCG to ensure that construction of the plant starts only after all requisite permissions were obtained from concerned departments, following Construction and Demolition Waste Management Rules, 2016.
 
 
