KOLKATA:   that are sold for anything less than Rs 60 is likely to be untreated and may simply be the water drawn from a KMC tap or a deep tubewell.

 During the enteric outbreak in the south-eastern fringes, a large number of lower middle class households turned to packaged water, several of them carrying dubious brands and selling at Rs 35 to Rs 40 for 20 litre jars. That is almost half of what reputable packaged water brands cost. 
 
  
  
 
 Experts in the filtered and packaged water business said it was not even possible to operate a plant and then transport the water to the stockist at that price. 
 
 Sudip Ghosh, who owns a water packaging factory in Naihati, said it takes almost Rs 18 to produce 20 litres of water. “You add another Rs 10 to Rs 15 for the transportation and then the margin of the manufacturer and the retailer. After this it is impossible to sell a 20 litre container for anything below Rs 55,” said Ghosh, who had last year alerted the CM about the mushrooming of illegal water packaging units in the state. The CM had thereafter ordered a CID probe. Ghosh further reasoned that to comply with the BIS standards, one had to spend Rs 6-7 lakh apart from two mandatory laboratory tests that could cost over Rs 50,000 each. Also, each packaging unit is required to employ a mircrobiologist and a chemist who oversee the 11-stage purification process, including chlorination and ozonization. 
 
 Conversations with owners of unlicensed bottling plants, distributors and stockists revealed that every stakeholder including the van-rickshaw puller who delivers water to doorsteps earns 70%-80% profit. 
 
 “In large parts of south-east Kolkata where there is drinking water crisis, packaged water is filling up a big gap at very low price,” said  , who supplies several hundred containers of packaged water in Bagha Jatin’s   every day.
 
 Huge demand, civic body’s failure to provide clean water to the suburbs and low amount of capital to start this business makes it win-win for everybody in the trade. 
 
 The families who buy the water said that it was economical and convenient for them. “The plastic container eliminates the need to stand for hours in line in front of a public tap with erratic water supply. The person drops the containers at our doorstep and it costs less than the branded one,” said Bapi Mukherjee, a resident of  . 
 
 
