JAIPUR: A   posted at   ( ), in a letter written to district collector Sawai Madhopur, has alleged that an influential hotelier is violating norms and entering the ‘no zone’ of forest area in private vehicles.

 The matter came to the fore on Monday when forest guard   Lal Mali reached Sawai Madhopur district collector's office to seek justice, after Chief Conservator of Forest (Sawai Madhopur) transferred him allegedly on the complaint of an influential hotelier. Mali said that he was accused of disturbing the tigress “Lighting”, which recently gave birth to cubs near   area of RNP. Acting on the hotel owner’s complaint, the CCF transferred him to   range on March 28.
 
 Minister for environment and forest   said, “ I would inquire which forest guard has been transferred. Also, if private vehicles are entering the ‘no zone’ of forest and are inside park after it is closed, stern action will be taken against them.”
 
 Mali told TOI, “On March 18, the CCF deployed me as a beat guard to track the tigress in Amaghati. I was doing my duty and taking pictures of pugmarks and tigress to identify her and report it to my seniors. The hotel owner accused me of disturbing the tigress. To seek justice, I approached the district collector, as it is humiliating to be transferred on the complaint of a private hotelier.”
 
 Sawai Madhopur district collector K C Verma confirmed that he has received complaint from Mali. “I have received the complainant from the forest guard but can comment only after examining the matter,” Verma told TOI.
 
 As evidence, the guard has provided to TOI pictures from a trap camera installed in Amaghati area where private vehicles allegedly of the hotel owner can be seen inside the RNP zone. Two trap camera pictures show that the vehicles are entering RNP at night, allegedly in connivance with the staff of state forest and wildlife department.
 
 A source at RNP said, “On April 1, the trap cameras captured a hotel gypsy at 8.03 pm. The forest department is apparently giving privilege to the influential to stay in park even after it is closed at 6.30 pm.”
 
 The Chief Conservator of Forest could not be reached for his reaction.
 
 
