HYDERABAD: The   ( ), on Saturday, proposed to notify speed limits on major roads across the city, keeping with the central government’s instruction to all municipalities regarding the same. This, sources said, is aimed at better traffic management.

 The decision was taken at city convergence meeting attended by officials of the GHMC,   and other state departments. The meeting was held at the Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering (MCEME) auditorium, Trimulgherry. This is the first time the city convergence meeting was hosted by the Army.
 
 Speaking post the meeting, civic body members said that they would soon press into service its engineers, from the maintenance and project departments, to study the roads and coordinate with the police for setting up signage, displaying speed limits .
 
 “The GHMC engineers are who are mostly on the field already know the speed limits for the roads that are there in their circles. We will also carry out a study to assess the speed limits as requested by the traffic police department to us, before putting up the signage,” said B  .
 
 Apart from limiting speed, the traffic police has also proposed to GHMC to take up lane markings at 332 junctions in the city and relocate 41bus shelters.
 
 “Lane markings and relocation of bus shelters will improve the traffic condition in the city. We have also requested the civic body to modify the Mehdipatnam bus station to ensure better facilities to the people using the services,” said V  , joint commissioner of police (traffic), Hyderabad.
 
 It has also been decided that the Army will appoint a nodal officer who will co-ordinate with traffic police to ensure better traffic movement on roads that are used by the Army as well as civilian population.
 
 For issues pertaining to sewerage lines in the Army area that being shared with localities that fall under the  , officials have decided to draw up a sewage master plan soon for better management.
 
 The GHMC officials have been instructed to expedite culvert works at Gachibowli, Miyapur and Banjara Hills.
 
