KOCHI: With just 11 days left for the current fiscal to end, Kochi corporation has been able to spend only 52% of the money allocated for the plan fund projects (PFPs) for 2017-18. The local body has also fallen behind in completing preparation of PFPs, which are to be cleared by the district planning council ( ) before March 25 and implemented from April 1.

 The civic body could complete the implementation of projects worth Rs 55 crore, which is far below Rs 66.61crore (the aggregate amount of spill over projects from the 2016-17 fiscal). The PFPs for 2017-18 comes to Rs 138 crore.
 
 “Even if the corporation tries its best, the total expenditure won’t exceed 60%,” said V P  , secretary,   parliamentary party, Kochi corporation.
 
 “While implementing the projects in a haste, we will have to compromise on its quality as well. Many of the projects being implemented now have not been designed to suit the requirements of a division or the corporation as such. Funds are being wasted on unnecessary road works to complete the spending before March
 
 31. Had the corporation started measures to design and implement projects at least in August, the performance of the local body would have been much better,” Chandran said.
 
 The corporation authorities are still hopeful of improving the local body’s performance.
 
 “Though the plan fund expenditure is 52% as per records, it is 54%. We must get the corporation council to clear many of the projects for which funds have already been spent. The council meeting to be held on Wednesday may clear many such projects,” said  , chairperson, standing committee for development.
 
 As per the latest norms laid down by the state government, for preparing budgets of local bodies, PFPs should figure in the budget with precision.
 
 “Earlier, the projects to be designed using plan fund would figure in the budget as tentative projects. This time onwards, the government has made it mandatory that the budget should give a clear picture of PFPs,” Chandran said.
 
 “The civic body will have to convene development seminars. Based on such seminars, plans should be prepared and cleared in the council. Then, the projects will have to be approved by the DPC. The local body will have to go through these process before giving final shape to the PFPs,” Chandran said.
 
 “The budget is scheduled for March 24, while the development seminar would be held only on April 5,” he said.
 
 The LDF would stage a dharna in front of the corporation office asking immediate measures to complete PFPs and the launch of Roll-on Rolloff (Ro-Ro) services in the   route on Tuesday.
 
