HYDERABAD: Come March 11,   will be made mandatory for all land registrations. This is one of the several sweeping changes in land deals made by the   (TRS) government to weed out corruption and bring in transparency.

 Speaking at the collectors’ conference at   on Tuesday, chief minister   said that age-old practices will be abandoned to make the sale deed process more transparent and accountable. The CM said that Aadhaar will be made mandatory to execute a sale deed, top sources confirmed.
 
 During land registration, both the parties must take appointment of the registration authority and be physically present on the day. The financial transactions must be completed by that time. No registration of property in unauthorized layouts will be allowed. Banks too have been ordered to not give loans on the basis of pattadar passbooks, but based only on the details in the Dharani website.
 
 The far reaching changes will come into effect from March 11, when the chief minister launches the new registration policy.
 
 “In the land records purification programme, 93% of land and 92% accounts were found to be undisputed and without any litigation. By February-end, there should be one revenue court in the district in place of courts of RDO, joint collector and district collector. Revolutionary changes are going to take place in the revenue records maintenance from March 12,”   said.
 
 As many as 2,500 to 4,000 registrations take place on a daily basis in the state, 60% of which are in urban areas. Apart from 141 sub-registrar offices, 443 mandal offices will be given the responsibility of registrations. Registration offices will be in place in 584 mandals.
 
 It was also decided not to take too much time for mutation of land. Entries will be made into the passbooks of both seller and buyer immediately with the required changes and additions. For this purpose, advanced computers and servers will be provided. Passbooks will be sent by courier to both seller and buyer and the details updated immediately on Dharani website.
 
 “Dharani website can be accessed from anywhere in the world. The collectors should update details of sale and purchases beginning March 12 on the site. Core banking method will start from March 12. We have reduced Pahani columns and will use simple Telugu terms in place of Marathi terms,” KCR said.
 
