CHENNAI: The   ( ) has warned candidates to be cautious of fraudsters sending WhatsApp messages which promise jobs at Chennai airport for a fee of 5,000. Two days ago, a candidate reached the airport with a fake appointment letter and had to be turned away. 

 The WhatsApp messages inform potential applicants about a recruitment drive, following which people posing as AAI staff hold interviews in hotels and issue appointment letters. A message recently did the rounds advertising for 800 jobs for the positions of store keeper, floor manager and assistant floor manager. The message included an email ID and phone number for sending resume and Aadhaar card. The qualification for the post is mentioned as 8th to 12th pass, graduate or diploma holders. 
 
 A student who sent his resume, marklists, certificates and identity proof received a reply asking for 5,000 to be deposited in an account at   in New Delhi. 
 
 S  , who stopped his cousin from sending the money, said, "My cousin got a message on WhatsApp about vacancies in the Airports Authority of India. There was an email ID and a phone number. When he called, a woman picked up and said that selected candidates will be given postings at the nearest airport from the town or village they live in  . Soon after receiving the documents, she informed him that they were verified and he has been selected for training. She then asked him to deposit the money." 
 
 A message was also sent to the candidate reading, "Dear Sir/Madam congratulations glad to inform that you are selected for airport job thanks. Regards, AAI Delhi." 
 
 "It appeared to be fishy because the email ID was a gmail account (aaidelhi2018@gmail.com). When I called, the woman said the recruitment is being done by AAI's sub-office in  . But she dissuaded me from visiting the sub-office saying no one would be allowed inside. I asked for some link on the AAI site where the given email can be verified but she stopped taking my calls," said Bose.
 
 A senior AAI official said, "AAI does not recruit by sending messages. Recruitments are done after notifications are called for on our website www.aai.aero. We have come across a few fake recruitment attempts like this and have warned prospective candidates. People circulate recruitment messages on WhatsApp, hold interviews at some hotels and also issue appointment letters."
 
 "In many cases, students have fallen for the claims without verifying if they are genuine," he added. 
 
 
