TRICHY: The eighth edition of Happy Streets will be held at Race Course Road near   at   in the city on Sunday. In order to create awareness among the public about the city’s 100-year-old Uyyakondan canal, a special speech about the history of the canal by the team Citizens for Uyyakondan has been scheduled this Sunday.

 Citizens for Uyyakondan is a collective banner under which people from various walks of life have been conducting Uyyakondan canal clean-up drive every Sunday since January, apart from organising several awareness events.
 
 The events that have been scheduled for the eighth edition would be a mixture of awareness sessions, exhilarating performances, exhibitions and of course loads of entertainment and fun.
 
 The participants would be treated with an eye-catching Kalaripayattu performance by a group of martial artists from Manasa yoga team. The martial art form, which originated as a style in Kerala, is said to be one of the oldest fighting art, which is still in existence.
 
 After a great response to the coin and currency collection exhibition, which were conducted over the past three weeks, the founder and president of   will be holding the exhibition for the fourth consecutive week. Apart from these special events, regular activities like zumba, cycling and yoga sessions would also be held.
 
 The first three weeks of the super-successful initiative was held at  , while the next three programmes were held at Link Road, Uzhavar Sandhai. And last week, the programme shifted to Race Course Road near Anna Stadium.
 
 Over the past seven weeks, Happy Streets has brought a smile to every participant who attended it and has been the starting point of many new friendships. For parents, the programme has been a boon as they feel that Happy Streets paved way for their children to ditch gadgets to go out and play and inculcate the spirit of community.
 
 Times of India in collaboration with   Corporation and Trichy city police kick-started Happy Streets at Thillai Nagar 10th Cross Street (west) on February 25. The initiative will be conducted on every Sunday over the course of next five weeks in Trichy from 6 am to 9 am.
 
 SPECIALTIES OF THE EIGHTH EDITION
 
 Exhibition: Get a glimpse of currencies from across the world
 
 Performance: Special Kalaripayattu performance by Manasa yoga team
 
 Awareness talk: Special speech on history of Uyyakondan and its culture by Citizens for Uyyakondan
 
 Talent corner: Let the city know your talent
 
 BE HERE AT
 
 Date: April 15
 
 Time: 6 am to 9 am
 
 Venue: Race Course Road near Anna Stadium at Khajamalai
 
 
