AHMEDABAD: When Ahmedabad rural police finally unravelled the mystery behind a  , they were taken aback. The victim, a 32-year-old woman, was strangled to death for resisted the advances of a man.

  Investigators said Koth police registered a case of accidental death after the body of a woman, in her thirties, was found at a secluded spot at 4.30pm on May 17. The body was decomposed and it was difficult to ascertain the woman’s identity from her face. The woman’s purse was found and it contained a SIM card tucked into a fold. The damaged card was analysed and officials learned that the body was of Ranjan Rana, 32, a resident of Soyla village near Sanand.
 
 “Ranjan, a native of Anand district, had married  , a resident of Surendranagar. The couple were unhappy and Ranjan had started living separately with her sons, Pratipal and Yashpal. She was a manual labourer and would go to nearby areas in search of work. She had left home on the morning of May 12. Her sister said that Ranjan’s phone was also missing,” said an investigator.
 
  As the postmortem report said her death was caused by strangulation, police filed a case for murder and loot. When the Ranjan’s phone was found to be active, police used technical surveillance and identified the user.  , 32, a resident of   was apprehended in South Bopal on Sunday. After thorough questioning, Pagi confessed to killing Ranjan and taking her phone to obstruct the investigation.
 
 “On May 12, Ranjan left for Nadiad, to meet a relative. She mistakenly got off a bus at Dhandhuka Crossroads, instead of Rohika Crossroads. As she was walking towards Rohika, Pagi, on a motorcycle, offered her a lift. Pagi found out about her background as they chatted and decided to take advantage of her. On the pretext of going to a temple, he took her to a secluded spot and tried to force himself on her. When Ranjan resisted, her clothes were torn in the struggle. Fearing that she would report the incident to police, Pagi strangled her and took her phone,” said a police official.
 
 
