KOLKATA: Kajol Chowdhury lost her husband 24 years ago. She channelised all her energy in raising her son which gradually healed her. But today, with her son having settled with his own family, the 69-year-old feels lonely. Chowdhury was one among the group who turned up for the senior citizen matrimony and companionship meet on Sunday.

 “My son is happily settled and looks after me well. But deep down I feel lonesome as all my siblings, too, have passed away. I’m here looking for a soulmate,” said Chowdhury, New   resident.
 
 Organised by Thikana Shimla, the meet provided a platform for single senior citizens to interact.
 
 Ashish Ganguly, in his 60s, had turned suicidal after he lost his wife to cancer six-years-ago. He engaged in social activities of keep himself busy but at home, loneliness would haunt him. “I keep looking for a companion to fill the void inside me. I hope to find true friend at this meet,” said Ganguly.
 
 Entrepreneur Joyshree   has been a divorcee for the last 25 years. Despite being independent, the 67-yearold yearns for emotional support when times get difficult. With her son settled in a different city, the Kasba resident hopes she will soon find a companion. “I don’t care if people ridicules me for wanting a companion at this age. In fact, the society should understand the pangs of solitary people,” said Mukherjee.
 
 The   will assist the participants by holding informal adda sessions. If a couple decides to take their relationship to the next level, the organisation would help them get married or move in together.
 
 “In several cases, it is the family — specially children — who object to such an alliance fearing social stigma or property issues. They need to understand that single elderly people might feel isolated and insecure. We would step in to counsel the family and help them sort the property issues,” said Dr  , founder secretary of the organisation.
 
 The NGO is also planning to organise a two-night trip for the participants in June. Many are looking forward to it.
 
 “I’m an avid traveller and would go places with my wife. But life has come to astandstill after she passed away a-yearago. I’m looking forward for a woman who loves exploring new places. I would want to share my life ahead with her,” said  , who just retired from a central government service.
 
