COIMBATORE: The open space reserve area or the space earmarked for public purpose in every residential layout is all set to shrink in the state. According to a circular issued by the commissioner of town and country planning Beela Rajesh on February 26,  , henceforth realtors can earmark OSR excluding the space for roads allocated within the layout.

 Earlier, 10% of OSR was allotted calculating the area earmarked for roads as well.
 
 Though the percentage of OSR remains the same at 10%, now the promoters are allowed to calculate this OSR area excluding the space earmarked for roads. So effectively, the open space will come down, which in turn benefit the builders while leaving the residents with a shrunken public space.
 
 While builders have welcomed the move, activists say they will challenge the circular since it is against the law.
 
 The empowered committee met on February 7, 2018 and took this decision apparently after requests from real estate owners association. The empowered committee cited the procedure followed by Chennai metropolitan development authority (CMDA). In CMDA, OSR is calculated for the area excluding the roads. 
 
 Former president of CREDAI, Tamil Nadu, Ramesh Bafna said that this was a welcome move and it will benefit the residents. “The land prices will come down and everyone will benefit if this is implemented. We have been requesting the government regarding this for a long time. This will also help in better implementation of the central government’s ambitious affordable housing scheme,” he said.
 
 Activists however said that the empowered committee did not have the authority to pass such orders. “The corporation Acts and government laws clearly state that OSR has to be calculated for the entire layout and roads cannot be excluded from it. This is against the government act and we will challenge this in the court,” said RTI activist S P Thiyagarajan.
 
 Secretary of   K   said that they were completely opposed to this circular and it was issued with vested interests. 
 
 “Just to please a few real estate owners and under political pressure, such a circular has been passed. The empowered committee has passed similar orders without giving due consideration to the existing laws governing real estate,” said Kathirmathiyon. He added the same empowered committee has several times passed orders against the norms and regularized park sites. “A few officials cannot decide the fate of the state,” he said. Senior officials were unavailable for comment. 
 
 
