BHUBANESWAR: Chief minister   on Wednesday approved developmental projects worth Rs 29.50 crore for 108 gram panchayats under the Ama Goan.....Ama Bikash ( ) programme.

 The programme, under which the chief minister directly interacts with people and instantly approves projects within Rs 10 lakh on their suggestions, was held at block level instead of at panchayats.
 
 Since the chief minister directly connects to the people through the programme, the   aims to cover all 8000 gram panchayats under the programme before the 2019 general and  .
 
 Over 50 panchayats have so far been covered under it which was launched on March 5 marking birth anniversary of   and state panchayati raj divas.
 
 “We take the programme as a game changer. The chief minister has given top priority for it. A whopping Rs 1250 crore has been earmarked for it in the 2018-19 annual budget. Chief secretary A P Padhi has been taking stock of the status of implementation of the projects approved by the chief minister at regular intervals,” said a senior panchayati raj department official requesting anonymity.
 
 According to a statement from the chief minister’s office, the chief minister approved projects worth Rs 8.12 crore for 32 panchayats under Rangailunda block in Ganjam, Rs 4.38 crore for 15 panchayats under Lamtaput block in Koraput, Rs 9 crore for 36 panchayats under Chandbali panchayat in Bhadrak and Rs 8 crore for 25 panchayats under Jajpur sadar block in Jajpur.
 
 Addressing the people through videoconferencing, the chief minister said development of village is essential to make Odisha, the number one state in the country.
 
 “The Ama Goan..Ama Bikash programme is a perfect example of government’s 3T mantra as I could reach out to the people by the use of technology. Since the developmental projects are approved in presence of thousands of people, it ensures transparency,” Naveen said.
 
 The chief minister also asked the elected panchayat representatives to follow his 3D--dedication, determination and devotion-- model of governance which he recently asked his colleagues in the cabinet to follow.
 
 Urging the panchayat leaders to work for the people, Naveen said development and delivery should the aim of their life.
 
