Udaipur: Amidst the controversy of police enquiry regarding political affiliations and criminal record being updated against Maharana Mahendra Singh, the eldest of the Mewar royal household, the constable named Umesh, who had carried the confidential letter of the Udaipur superintendent of police to Singh’s residence, has been attached to lines as punishment for the act that has come as a big embarrassment for the police authorities.

 Extending a clarification to media, home minister Gulab Chand Kataria said that this is a routine procedure and any one of such letters would have my name too. Meanwhile, the erstwhile royals do not seem to be contended with the clarifications and disciplinary action against the cop. “The constable is perhaps the most junior of the department who carried the letter but the question is who started it in the first place? Our question remains to be answered that what law permits the government to call for such a report and to serve what purpose?” Vishvaraj Singh, son of Mahendra Singh said in a telephonic conversation with TOI. 
 
 “My father wrote the letters to the PM, Union home minister, CM and state home ministers, as well as copies sent to the Udaipur district magistrate and SP but it’s a week now and we haven’t received a written communication from any one of them, we are waiting for a proper reply,” Singh added. 
 
 It may be noted that Udaipur SP had issued a letter dated February 5, to the Surajpole Police station asking the SHO to compile a detailed report on Mahendra's Singh’s activities. Since Singh’s residence fell under the Ghantaghar police station area, the letter was redirected to the concerning station. The SP had asked the officer to treat the letter on utmost priority and submit the required details in 5 days as it was supposed to be forwarded to the police headquarters. 
 
 In the letter Mahendra Singh was referred as a member of the Congress party and sought details whether he was alive or dead and if alive, his present affiliations. Deeply hurt by the act, Mahendra Singh had on February 10, sent emails to the central and state government authorities.
 
 
