GURUGRAM: The   Justice Board (JJB) on Friday discharged all minors apprehended for their alleged role in the rioting during a protest against controversial film Padmaavat. 

 The special investigation team (SIT), which is probing the case, had told the board that the five juveniles apprehended for their alleged role in the arson could be discharged as it hadn’t found any evidence against them. 
 
 
  
 
 Two other juveniles were discharged by the board on February 16.
 
 A Haryana Roadways bus was set on fire and a   was attacked by a   during the protest against the film in Gurugram on January 24.
 
 Police had initially apprehended and named eight juveniles in the FIR for their alleged involvement in the violence, but later the probe found that one of them was a 21-year-old youth, and was produced before the board as a minor.
 
 The SIT thoroughly investigated the matter and found one juvenile to be studying in Vivek Bharti School, Ghamroj, while another teenager — a Class X student — was pursuing his studies via open schooling. 
 
 The probe also found that a juvenile was present in his school and reached home at 3pm on January 24, when a school bus was attacked and a Haryana Roadways bus was set on fire by protesters.
 
 The board observed how police had acted in a negligent manner and apprehended the juvenile, who are “not involved in any criminal activity”, in a haste.
 
 The SIT had later removed offences punishable under sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 397B (snatching with use of force) of IPC from the FIR. 
 
 Also, the SIT probe revealed that driver of the Haryana Roadways bus, conductor and any police officer had not received any grievous injuries during the protest. The SIT’s report also said allegation of attempt to murder has been found to be false as “protesters had stopped the bus, got it vacated and then set it on fire”. 
 
 The investigators claimed that charges of snatching of a mobile phone belonging to the Haryana Roadways bus driver were also turned out to be false.
 
 The JJB’s order stated that police arrested the juveniles and produced them before the board without verifying their date of birth.
 
 “Police do not want to prosecute them. Then no reason is made out to decline the request of discharge of juveniles and no useful purpose would be served to continue the proceedings against them…” the board’s order stated.
 
 Eleven others arrested for their alleged involvement in the violence were granted bail by a session’s court on Tuesday. Villagers of Bhondsi had earlier met several politicians and the deputy commissioner earlier, claiming that the juveniles had no role in the violence.
 
 
 
