KOLKATA: Good things don’t come easy. The first initiative to get women into the autorickshaw sector — unabashedly male-dominated and in the news for all the wrong reasons — has hit a roadblock, thanks to a section of male auto drivers.

 These drivers are vehemently protesting against the move, threatening the women against taking out their autos, even as just one of the 60-odd trainees have started driving the three-wheelers.
 
 “Some of the auto drivers, especially from the Tollygunge-Hazra route, have voiced their dissatisfaction with the initiative,” said  , the president of the  , controlled by Trinamool. “They say they fear the influx of new autos and drivers into the already cramped routes would hurt their business.” 
 
 What Chakraborty didn’t mention is that some of the drivers had already threatened the women and their family members, asking them not to get into the profession or face the consequences. “Some auto drivers have threatened me, saying I should not drive autos,” said a woman in her 20s who has been undergoing the training.
 
 “I have already applied for a licence, but the constant threats from the drivers with whom I will have to work regularly has made my family cautious. Even I am in a spot of bother now — I don’t know whether to drive an auto or not.”
 
 TOI had reported last Tuesday how two intrepid Kolkata women in their 20s have been driving through an unusual glass ceiling, opting to ply autorickshaws in a city where their colleagues are known to be violent and boorish — with both passengers and traffic sergeants.Tandra  , a 27-year-old BA Part-II dropout, is the first to have applied and received a learners’ licence, while Mousumi Sardar, 20, applied for one last week. The two are part of a 60-woman group who have been undergoing training under veteran auto drivers led by South Kolkata District Auto Drivers’ and Auto Operators’ Union general secretary Gopal Sutar.
 
 The constant threats and protests have even made Sadhukhan — who had started driving an auto on and off between Taratala and Rabindra Sarobar Metro route — to stop. When TOI got in touch with her on Sunday, she didn’t want to speak on the issue but conceded she hadn’t driven her auto for the last five days.On Sunday, TOI spoke to some of auto drivers of the Tollygunge-Garia and Tollygunge-Hazra routes, and they readily admitted they resisted the move. “There are already more than 100 autos on the Tollygunge-Hazra route. How can we accommodate more autos?” said a driver in his 40s unwilling to be named, but who claimed to have been in the business for over 15 years. “Moreover, with women around, we need to behave in a different manner than what we are used to. There are several other professions women are into. Why do they need to drive autos? This is just a publicity gimmick that will only hamper our business,” he added in a huff.
 
 Sutar, the brains behind the project, says the resistance has left him in a spot of bother, but was firm that he would continue to fight for the women, come what may. “All these women are from very downtrodden families. They want to come to this profession against all odds just to sustain their families and live a respectable life. I don’t know why a section of drivers have objection to these women. I have made it clear that these women will be distributed among different auto routes, which will not hamper the business of the current drivers. They are still refusing to listen, but I will be by their side and fight for their cause,” he said.
 
 
