ALAPPUZHA: Tension prevailed in front of the  ,  ,   on   for hours on Sunday after nurses under United Nurses’ Association (UNA) blocked the road demanding immediate government intervention to end their ongoing strike at the hospital.

 As many as 113 nursing staff, who are on strike for the past 175 days demanding better pay and working conditions and reinstating two of their colleagues terminated by the hospital management, came to the NH on Sunday evening and blocked the traffic. 
 
 Though   tried to remove the agitators from the road, they refused to move from the highway. Following this, Cherthala witnessed huge   on NH and other roads connecting to the NH. Following the protest from passengers, police intervened and forcefully removed the nurses and arrested around 50  .
 
 Renjeesh M R, a striking nurse alleged that police caned the protesters and many were injured. However, Cherthala CI Mohnalal denied the charges and said that protesters were arrested after they blocked traffic along the NH. He said that seven cops including a DSP were injured in the melee.
 
 “The hospital has not been paying even the minimum wages announced in 2013. The working hours often extended to 10 hours during day shifts and 14 hours on nights. Most of the nurses were not eligible for PF, ESI and other benefits and were often fined for silly reasons,” said Renjeesh.
 
 The KVM Hospital management said on February 8 that it would not participate in any conciliatory talks with the UNA. In a press note, director and chief medical officer of the hospital Dr V V Haridas said the indefinite strike by the nurses under the aegis of the UNA in front of the hospital at Cherthala was illegal. 
 
 UNA secretary Sujanapal Achuthan, said the nurses under the aegis of UNA will observe ‘black day’ on Monday to protest the police attack. “If the issue is not resolved in the coming days, nurses will strike across all private sector hospitals in the state on February 15,” said Sujanapal, who is on an indefinite hunger strike in front of KVM Hospital since Friday.
 
 
