 made his debut in Bollywood as a leading man with director Eeshwar Nivas’ drama, 'My Name Is Anthony Gonsalves' (2008). Post that, he featured in films like 'Raavan' (2010), 'Shor in the City' (2011), 'Hate Story' (2012) and 'Tamanchey' (2012). The actor admits that his films didn’t rake in the moolah at the box office. But, his passion for cinema made him want to still be part of the movie industry. Now, he has changed gears and has plunged headlong into production. The female buddy film, ' ' starring  ,  , Swara Bhasker and Shikha Talsania marks his debut as a co-producer.

 Ask him if a background in management studies prompted his decision and he says, “That wasn’t the real reason. From the age of four, I knew that I had to grow up and be an actor. Since, childhood, I have been passionate about cinema. I came here to be an actor but my films didn’t do too well. After my initial films didn’t sell tickets at the box office, the kind of films I was being offered weren’t encouraging. I didn’t have the aesthetics to be part of the films that were being offered to me. Tickets prices have gone up and when you get to see Shah Rukh Khan, Salman Khan and Hrithik Roshan at that price, I would have had to make a huge effort to convince people that they should watch Nikhil Dwivedi in a film and pay that kind of money. The only way I could have done that was if the content was good enough. When I wasn’t being offered films with good content, I knew it was going to be difficult as an actor. Even then, I wanted to be a part of cinema. Despite that, being a producer was not a conscious choice. It happened to me by default. In the past, the producers who invested in my films didn’t have the experience to put a film together. I used to turn into a non-paid executive producer on my films. On my last film, I was even working out Richa Chadha’s dates. I realised that I could put a film together in a limited budget because my films were made on low budgets. That’s how I turned to production.”
 
 Quiz him why he decided to bet his money on 'Veere Di Wedding' and Nikhil admits, “It is important to have belief and back creative people. I have been in that situation where I wanted to be part of good films and I didn’t have producers backing me. The team of 'Veere Di Wedding' intended to make a good film and they had invested in a script. According to me, lack of money shouldn’t be a deterrent when people want to make good cinema. I would like to put my money where I can smell good stories. My inspiration is someone like  . I think he was one of the finest producers that we have ever seen. I would not like to lose money but I would like make films like he did.”
 
 
