NAGPUR:  , alias Raju, a 53-year-old vegetable vendor has been placed in police custody till Friday after his daughter-in-law, 23, complained to the police that she was being sexually exploited since two years leading to three pregnancies. The accused, who was a close kin of the survivor, had started abusing the woman after his mentally challenged son was unable to consummate the marriage.

 The survivor, who lodged the complaint on Monday at   police station, told police that her mother-in-law forced her to have sex with Rajdatta in her presence. 
 
 Police said the survivor was married to Rajdatta’s son without knowing that he was mentally challenged. The marriage was fixed by her uncle, who resided close to the survivor’s place, in May 2016. The survivor used to be surprised by her husband’s behaviour as he would not communicate nor try to consummate the marriage. She was told by her in-laws that he takes time open up with strangers.
 
 The survivor then confided to her parents who were subsequently told by Rajdatta not to visit their daughter.
 
 In a few weeks, Rajdatta started harassing the survivor to have sex with him. He also wanted her to conceive. She was raped for the first time when her mother-in-law was not at home.
 
 Soon, it became very regular. The survivor spoke to her mother-in-law who did not take any action. She was not allowed to speak to any of her relatives too.
 
 The survivor had two miscarriages — towards end of 2016 and then in 2017, following which Rajdatta even took her to the government hospital for a diagnosis. 
 
 Earlier this year, the survivor and her in-laws had a tiff. She wanted to visit a relative to attend a programme but they did not allow it. On May 1, she had another miscarriage. Mustering courage, she contacted her family members and narrated her plight.
 
 Senior PI   of New Kamptee police station said the statement of the survivor would be recorded in presence of a magistrate. “We are collecting evidence and recording statements now,” he said. 
 
 
