GURUGRAM: Roads are among the biggest killers in India. According to recent figures gathered by  , not wearing seatbelts resulted in 5,638 lives lost on the country’s streets and highways in 2016. Half of these fatalities could have been averted had proper precautions been taken.

 With such grim statistics in mind,   India, the country’s largest automaker, has rolled out a nationwide social campaign – #PehniKya? Conceptualised by Happy mcgarrybowen (a unit of Dentsu Aegis Network), the heart-tugging film seeks to exhort drivers and passengers to stay safe by wearing their seatbelts.
 
 An important piece of protection, seatbelts are too often disregarded by motorists in India. In fact, a recent survey carried out by Maruti Suzuki with Kantar Group (Millward Brown and IMRB), revealed that the rate of seatbelt usage is as low as 25 percent. “Lack of awareness of seatbelt as a safety device, lack of encouragement from family and friends, and weak legal enforcement were among the key reasons for non-usage,” told R S Kalsi, senior executive director, Maruti Suzuki.
 
 In the film, a father’s practice of not wearing a seatbelt leaves a son worried. The boy is seen desperately trying to stop dad from driving his car, by, in turns, placing a plastic ball in the exhaust pipe, deflating the tyres, and applying glue to the driver’s seat. An angry father is forced to confront his son. “What’s wrong with you?” to which the son replies, tearfully, “Papa, I get very scared when you don’t put on your seatbelt.”
 
 Remorseful, and not a little guilty, the father assures, “Sorry son, from now on I will wear the seatbelt every day – I promise.” It’s a brief but very touching piece of advertising. Not wearing a seatbelt, the ad warns, will harm more than just you. It will also put your loved ones at risk.
 
 “Drawing from research, we decided to keep the message simple and thought provoking – thus was born #PehniKya?” shared P M Praveen Das, chief creative officer and MD, Happy mcgarrybowen.
 
 “Another key insight that was validated by research, was that people would be far more impacted if the message came from a family member. Hence, the construct of the TVC. The film captures the simple emotion of love of a son for his father,” Das added.
 
 Maruti’s Kalsi reveals that according to studies by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, USA, if a driver is not wearing a seatbelt in a vehicle equipped with airbags, the airbags may cause more harm in the event of a crash. “At the same time, with the new safety regulations, more cars in India will come equipped with airbags. This makes the usage of seatbelts even more critical,” he added.
 
 Hopefully, the message will hit home – and help save many lives.
 
 
