GHAZIABAD: A 12-year-old-boy drowned in the   canal on Saturday, the fourth minor to die in the waters of the canal this week in Ghaziabad. The mishap took place on a stretch along the   near the bridge that connects Vasundhara with Indirapuram.

 
 The body of Neeraj, a Class V student in a government school in Pratap Vihar, was recovered by a team of National Disaster Response Force a little after 7 pm after a two-hour search.
 
 On May 15, three minor boys had drowned in the river in an area upstream, out of which the body of one Pratik (11) could not be retrieved.
 
 According to police, Neeraj had accompanied two other boys to the canal for bathing around 1 pm on Saturday. Neeraj’s family lives in Kanshiram Colony of Pratap Vihar where his father Rupesh is a tailor.
 
 “Neeraj’s school was closed on Saturday. He left home saying he is going out to play with friends. Nearly 45 minutes later, two of his friends, who live in our colony, rushed to our house in panic and said Neeraj had drowned while bathing in the Hindon canal. The boys said all three of them were bathing on the edge of the canal. However, Neeraj strayed into deeper waters along the centre of the canal. He reportedly took a dip and never emerged. We rushed to the canal immediately thereafter,” Neeraj’s uncle Raj Kumar told TOI.
 
 Neeraj’s family members said he did not know how to swim. Police said they received an alert about the incident in the control room around 3 pm.
 
 “We took the help of local divers and searched for the kid’s body for nearly an hour. More than half-a-dozen divers searched the area where the boy reportedly drowned but could not find his body. We informed the NDRF thereafter,” said SHO, Indirapuram, Sachin Malik.
 
 The NDRF team reached the spot at around 5.30 pm and two hours later, they managed to fish out the body of the kid. “A team comprising a commander, a telecom operator and divers was pressed for the search operation. Earlier, we had searched for the body of Pratik for three days around five to seven kilometres downstream of the river where he had drowned. Our rescue team also cleared a certain portion of the marsh near the barrage downstream. However, we could not find his body,” said commandant of eighth NDRF battalion, PK Srivastava.
 
 Pratik had drowned with two other minor boys, Saleem and Aleem, in the   near Karheda Bridge on May 15. The boys had accompanied locals of Deendayalpuri to the floodplains for the burial of a minor girl after which they had entered the waters for bathing.
 
 
