MUMBAI: Housing minister   has sought to shift the blame for the MP Mill compound slum rehabilitation scheme controversy to additional chief secretary (housing) Sanjay Kumar in his written reply to   ML Tahaliyani, sources said. 

  Mehta was not available for comment and did not respond to TOI's text messages. 
 
  The minister is facing the Lokayukta inquiry after opposition pressure following TOI 's report on July 12 last year. TOI had said Mehta had sanctioned an irregular SRA proposal that allowed extra building rights granted to slum dwellers at M P Mill compound in Tardeo to be transferred to a scheme for project-affected-people although there was no such provision in the development control rules. 
 
 This would have generated additional building rights worth over Rs500 crore for the developer.
 
 The state housing department had opposed this, but Mehta went ahead and sanctioned the proposal, TOI's report had mentioned how the housing department's note had said, "There is no provision in the DC rules which allows benefits granted to eligible slumdwellers to be withdrawn or transferred."
 
 Mehta had filed his reply before the Lokayukta in January. Sources said Mehta has claimed that if his noting differed from that of the housing department, it was the responsibility of the additional chief secretary (housing) to bring it to his attention. However, without asking him to re-look at the proposal, the department processed it, Mehta has reportedly said.
 
 Mehta sanctioned the proposal saying he had informed CM  , chairperson of SRA. "Proposal should take General Body Resolution (GBR) of society. The government will get PAPs. The Chief Minister has been informed. This is being permitted on accepting the PAPs," Mehta's noting had said on June 21 last year. The proposal was stayed by Fadnavis. Mehta subsequently backtracked and said Fadnavis was not aware of the proposal.
 
 Sources from the state housing department said it had vetoed the proposal to issue directions under Section 3 K of the Slum Act since this did not apply to the case. This section allows the state to use issue directions to SRA on policy which it thinks are necessary or expedient for carrying out the purpose of the Slum Act.
 
 On the issue of whether to allow transfer of building rights from the slum scheme to PAPs, the housing department had asked the then SRA CEO Vishwas Patil to examine the issue under provisions of the Slum Act and DC rules. This is because the SRA CEO is authorised to decide on issues related to expansion of slum schemes. But on June 23, two days after Mehta's noting, Patil also sanctioned the scheme on the grounds that the general body resolution of the slum society be taken. As a result, the file did not revert to the state housing department, sources said. The Maharashtra Lokayukta has already examined two housing department officials in the case and is likely to summon Kumar next for his deposition.
 
 
