RAJKOT: It has been over one-and-a-half years since the   (GIC) ordered the state home department to take a final decision on making the inquiry report on killing three Dalit youth from Thangadh in police firing public, but the government is yet to take a stand. At the same time, the state government recently told the state assembly that it was not inclined on tabling the probe report in the house. 

 On the intervening night of September 22 and September 23, in 2012, three Dalit youths Pankaj Sumra (16), Mehul Rathod (17) and Prakash Parmar (26) were killed in police firing in Thangadh town of  . The police had fired while trying to control a clash between people of two communities. After the incident, the state government had asked senior IAS officer   to conduct an inquiry. He had submitted the report on May 1, 2013. But the government is yet to make the inquiry report public.
 
 GIC in its order dated August 22, 2016, took note of the state home department’s reply that “the probe report was under consideration of state government and no final decision was taken” and ordered the authority to decide quickly on it. “There is already a delay in this report. The commission recommends to take a decision quickly and provide the copy to the applicant without delay,” GIC order stated. 
 
 The applicant Navsarjan Trust’s Kirit Rathod said, “Even after the GIC order, neither have I got a reply on government’s decision nor the copy of report.” 
 
 “I have again sent the application to GIC seeking direction to state home department to provide me the copy of probe report. On the same day, I sent an application to CM’s online grievance cell which has been directed by the home department to provide me report as per the GIC order. But till date I have got nothing,” Rathod added.
 
 During the on-going Assembly session   MLAs Sailesh Parmar, Alpesh Thakor and Soma Patel had raised this issue in the house and asked “when will the government be tabling the Thangadh inquiry report in the assembly?” To this, chief minister  , who holds the home ministry portfolio stated in a written reply that “appropriate decision has been taken” and “it is not required to be tabled in the state assembly”.
 
 In August 2016, GIC had rejected the home department’s argument that the disclosure of the inquiry report may harm sovereignty and integrity of the country and incite hatred among sections of the society. The state home department had invoked section 8 (1) (a) and (c) of RTI Act to deny the inquiry report sought under the act. 
 
 Under these sections 8 (1) (a) and (c) of RTI Act, the government shall be under no obligation to give any information that would prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the State, relation with foreign State or lead to incitement of an offence.
 
 
