MUMBAI:   milled around as   enacted the   at   on Friday.

 Infant Jesus Church, Koparkhairane, and St Thomas Church, Vashi, conducted the Way of the Cross from Koparkhairane Sector 10 to Vashi. More than 700 people joined the procession which stopped at 14 locations en route, said Fr Benny Thanninilkumthadathil, parish priest.
 
 Since 31 years the most grand Passion Play is organised by Joseph Dias of the Catholic Secular Forum (CSF) in Santacruz. Dias said this year the event drew a crowd of 7,000-8,000 along the 5 km route. The procession passed through Khar, Santacruz, Vakola and Kalina with the crucifixion scenes being enacted, as in the Philippines, to a tearful finale. Many people walked barefoot.
 
 Thirty-three-year-old Allan D'Souza, who has been playing the part of Jesus Christ since no less than 14 years, said he is always touched to see the reactions of little children. "The elders are moved, but the children come up with the most curious, innocent questions. They ask about the 'blood' on the cloak, they ask about the thorn that pierced Jesus, they want to know how I came out alive after being 'crucified'," he smiled.
 
 The archbishop of Bombay, Oswald Cardinal Gracias, delivered a powerful   address at Cross Maidan. He invited the gathering to focus attention on three principal characters that have significant roles to play in the Passion narrative.
 
 "Are we Judas?" he asked. "Judas heard Christ preach, he was a disciple whom Jesus trusted. Why would Jesus put him in charge of the common fund had he not trusted. But scripture tells us that Judas used to help himself from the common fund, and over a period of time, his conscience was dulled. A dulled conscience gives way to a lapsed conscience, and that made him accept the blood money to betray Jesus. This leaves us with the first question: has our conscience been dulled over a period of time that we too land up betraying Jesus?"
 
 Then the archbishop said, "Are we Pilate? Weak and unable to stand up for the truth? We have heard in the course of the Gospel that Pilate said, to different people, 'I find no guilt in this Man', not just once but three times. In spite of knowing that Jesus was innocent, Pilate gave in to the pressure of the crowds and had Jesus executed. Why could he not stand up for the truth? The weakness of Pilate was in his thirst for power. He did not want influential people to complain about him to the authorities and so he gave in."
 
 The third example the Cardinal placed was that of Peter. "Finally, we have Peter, a bumbling man, spontaneous and one who constantly got into trouble because he put his foot in his mouth. He was always one who would shoot off his mouth and then later understand the consequences of his actions and words. Peter could make the declaration of faith and then right after, be the spokesperson for Satan. He was committed to Christ and yet he denied him."
 
 "We must remember that there is no mention of the other disciples during the passion of Christ, except John. While the others abandoned Jesus totally, Peter followed him. Yes, he did deny Jesus, but the moment he realised what he had done, he was filled with remorse and was willing to make changes in his life."
 
 Cardinal Gracias said these three names have become synonymous with behaviour patterns over the ages. "If a good friend lets us down, we say, don't be a Judas. Pilate is remembered for his lack of willingness to take a stand. A person who is non-committal is often told, don’t wash your hands of this issue, or don’t do a Pilate. And finally, for a person you can depend on to some extent, you call that person a rock like Peter."
 
 "How, then, do we want history to remember us?" he asked.
 
 The spectators went home with much to reflect upon ahead of the Resurrection.
 
 
