ALAPPUZHA: Stepping up his attack on the BJP-led NDA,   Yogam general secretary   Natesan on Monday said going by the current trend, LDF candidate Saji Cherian has an edge over rivals in the Chengannur bypoll to the state assembly.

 Natesan, however, added that the Yogan has not yet decided on supporting any of the candidates.
 
 He said UDF’ s D Vijayakumar would be coming second, and NDA's P S Sreedharan Pillai would finish third.
 
 Both Vijayakumar and Pillai, meanwhile, filed their nominations on Monday. Cherian would be filing his papers on Wednesday, a day before the last date for filing nominations for the May 28 bypoll.
 
 Rajiv Pallath of the Aam Aadmi Party also filed his nomination papers on Monday.
 
 Meanwhile, speaking to reporters at his   residence near here, Natesan said the SNDP's council meeting would decide on whom to support.
 
 ‘‘Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan is my favourite politician and Saji has an edge in Chengannur now. The BJP is in third position. The Yogam’s council meeting will be held after the final list of candidates is known. We will have a political stand and our's will be different from that of the Bharat Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS),’’ he said.
 
 NDA candidate Pillai had met Natesan at the latter’s residence on Sunday. The SNDP leader said Pillai had agreed to his opinion and demanded the leaders concerned to solve the current problems in NDA.
 
 He said   leader  's statement that BDJS is a communal party was untimely and it would adversely affect the chances of the LDF.
 
 “CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan do not share  's opinion,” he said.
 
 Vellappally reiterated that BDJS should leave NDA and field its own candidate in Chengannur. He sought an early solution to the issues within NDA.
 
 "If the issues are settled in the last stage, it will not reach the grassroots-level party workers on time. It is BJP's state leadership who had created the current issues,’’ he said.
 
 The byelection was necessitated in Chengannur after the death of sitting MLA K K Ramachandran Nair, of the CPM, in January this year. Votes will be counted on May 31.
 
 
