Prachi Arya

 Actor and anchor  , of ' ' fame, was recently in the city to attend a children’s film festival organised by a private school. The actor, who is a frequent visitor to the city says that something or the other attracts him to this city. "Lucknow ke saath connection badhta jaa raha hai as I might be coming in July for a film promotion also. I have my relatives here too as my wife   has relatives here who live in Aishbagh. So I know each and every place in Lucknow pretty well. Even otherwise, before I got married, I used to come to Lucknow quite frequently for plays," says Annup.
 "Lucknow, as a city, has its own cultural character which cannot fade or die. This city will always be remembered for its culture, heritage, theatre, language and more. I remember coming to Lucknow and adjoining cities like Kanpur, Allahabad, for the shoots of 'Crime Patrol'. Those memories are still treasured," adds the actor who has also done television shows like ' ' and 'Kahaani Ghar Ghar Ki'. 
 Annup, who gained immense popularity through the show 'Crime Patrol', has finally decided to quit it after devoting eight years to it. The actor feels that doing the same thing over the years makes an actor monotonous which is harmful to his career. "I have given eight years to this show but you see it is very important for an actor to do acting assignments, as well. To be honest, I was desperately missing acting. Because of this show I was not able to give much time to my acting. Logon ka perception bhi ho jata hai that I am busy. You know what used to happen was that most often my dates for other projects would clash with those I had committed for 'Crime Patrol'. Someone would say ki aap das din show chhodhkar Lucknow chaliye doosre project ke liye and I used to refuse those offers as I could not leave the show for 10 days. I used to say that can you take me for five days as I have to come back, to which they would say no. So as an actor you miss out on a lot of things. And moreover, you have given eight years to a single project, so I felt ki ab kuchh naya karte hain. I think people will not miss me on Crime Patrol as I have done 1600 episodes, jo poora din repeat hote hain," says Annup.
 
