LUCKNOW: Even though experts say that February is the ideal month to start   to prevent   in summers,   has neither begun the exercise nor plans to do it any time soon.

 Presently, LMC has deployed two fogging machines, one at Lucknow Mahotsava and the other for VIP areas like CM’s residence, Governor House, Butler Palace, Darulshafa, etc. LMC officials said that fogging in the city will begin in March.
 
 TOI surveyed various localities in the city on Friday to assess fogging status and as expected was disappointed.
 
 Gomtinagar: Many sectors are still deprived of fogging. Some have not seen it for past many years. Sikandar Raj, a resident of Vishwas Khand, said, “There are too many mosquitoes in the area where I live . The drain outside the school near my house is clogged with garbage and serves as breeding ground for mosquitoes.”
 
 Narhi : The drains are overflowing with garbage and sludge. LMC workers cleaned some drains but dumped the silt on the edge. Tarun Amarnani, a local, said, “Fogging was done in last summer. They don’t do anything about choked drains.”
 
 Sadar: There is a huge puddle which has also become a dumping ground for household waste. The pipeline leakage in Purana Qila is contributing to growth of mosquitoes. “Fogging machines never come in my locality,” said Noor Jahan.
 
 Khurramnagar: The Kukrail Nullah flowing adjacent to Khurramnagar is full of garbage. While LMC doen’t bother to clean it, stray animals like pigs and dogs feed on the waste. Mohammad Faeq, a local, said that broken drains cause   at many places.
 
 Mahanagar & Badshahnagar : Overflowing drains serve as  . Sunita Srivastava, a resident of Badshahnagar, said, “There is a spurt in growth of mosquitoes. I am not able to sit in my balcony.”
 
 Indiranagar: One can see swarms of mosquitoes flying near Munshipulia crossing. Rishabh, a resident, says that choked drains are a perennial problem and result in growth of mosquitoes.
 
 Meanwhile, Lucknow Municipal Corporation officials said, “We will begin fogging in March when mosquitoes grow rapidly. At present, we are only focusing on VIP areas and on places from where we are receiving complaints.”
 
 (With inputs from Nabia Rizvi, Abdul Rehman and Mehdi Moosvi)
 
