KOLKATA : The floating market at Patuli, the first of its kind in a metro, was inaugurated by chief minister Mamata Banerjee through remote control from Netaji indoor stadium on Wednesday. State urban development and municipal affairs department minister   later visited the place and officially opened the market for the public. A total of 228 sellers who were earlier moved out from the   VIP market have been rehabilitated at the new place.

 Hakim inspected the entire market area and met the sellers before buying a few things. “I bought some jujubes and had a coconut,” the minister said.
 
 Tultul Roy, a 70-year-old who had been selling vegetables at Patuli VIP market for over 20 years is one of the lucky 228 who has found space at the floating market with her daughter. “We are happy that we have been rehabilitated here,” she said.
  
  
  was one of the firsts to make a selling. “The first transaction I made was a bunch of grapes for Rs 10 that I sold to a child. The arrangements here are quite good,” the fruit-seller said.
 
 Local residents who frequented Patuli VIP market all these years said the arrangements at the new area seemed to be good.
 
 Amit Saha, a local and one of the first buyers on Wednesday, said: “The arrangements look good. Only, the customers will not be able to choose the vegetables and fruits on their own as is normally done in ordinary markets. Lets see how it works,” he said. Saha bought some guavas on his first visit to the floating market.
 
 “There is another market nearby, but I think we will be
 
 coming here since this is a new kind of thing and the sellers are the ones we have already been doing business with,” said Ratna Purokayastha, another local resident.
 
 Hakim said a number of safety and cleanliness measures would be followed to make the market a safe place.
 
 “Not many would be allowed to get on to a particular wooden platform at the same time and children below the age of six would not be allowed to enter the place without his or her parents. As for the stability of the wooden platforms, it is our engineers who have supervised the entire structure,” he said, adding that the market will be maintained by the   as of now. A market committee will soon be formed.
 
 The minister added that all necessary steps would be taken to keep the area clean.
 
 “The water would be constantly purified with a machine that has been installed in the waterbody. No plastic will be allowed to be dumped inside the area either,” he said.
 
 
 
