GAYA: Rumours about demolition of all structures located in a radius of 500 metres from the outer wall of world heritage   caused panic among people on the second day of three-day   bandh on Saturday.

 The   has been called to protest new traffic plan imposed on streets near the shrine by the Gaya district administration and police. Gaya DM Abhishek Singh, however, denied any demolition plan. The denial of district administration announced through a press release was widely circulated on social media to allay misgivings. “There is no proposal for immediate demolition of the structures,” the release said.
 
 “The proposal of creation of buffer zone around   temple is futuristic and implementable in 2031,” the release stated. Earlier in 2013, 58 shops in front of the shrine were demolished following terrorist attack.
 
 What gave credence to the demolition rumour was a 16-year-old guideline given by Unesco, the world cultural body, for proper conservation of the shrine. In 2002,   notified Mahabodhi temple as a world heritage site and issued certain guidelines for the shrine’s proper maintenance and conservation. Creation of a buffer zone in a radius of 500 metres from the main temple was part of the Unesco guideline.
 
 Sources said though Unesco does not have coercive power to execute its proposals, it reserves the right to de-notify any world heritage site for non-implementation of its guidelines.
 
 Unesco teams, while visiting Bodh Gaya on a couple of occasions in the past, had expressed unhappiness with the place’s conversion into a concrete jungle on account of unabated illegal constructions.
 
 Besides creation of a buffer zone around the shrine through removal and relocation of existing structures, the Unesco also wanted a ceiling of 3-metre height for all buildings in a 1km radius from the main shrine. As per Unesco guidelines, buildings located in 1-2km radius of the shrine should not have height exceeding 11 metres.
 
 Asked about the new traffic plan, Gaya SSP   said the administration has been extremely accommodative and open to suggestions as well. “However, blackmailing tactics will not be tolerated. No compromise can be made with the shrine’s safety and security,” said Malik. 
 
 
