LONDON: Reliance Industries (RIL) chairman and managing director   has said that the company’s telecom venture   was in fact conceived by his children in 2011. Speaking at an event here,   said Isha, a student at  , was doing some coursework during her holidays and said the internet in their house “sucked”. His son Akash then told him about the immense possibilities of a digital network.

 
 “Dad, you don’t get it. In the old world, telecom was voice. In our new world, we can do a lot more with a digital network than just talk,” his son told him. At that time, data in India was not only scarce, but priced “artificially high”, Ambani said and recounted how he went on to make data and broadband internet affordable and abundant across the country.
 
 “Isha and Akash belong to India’s young generation that is far more creative, far more ambitious and far more impatient to become the best in the world. These young Indians convinced me that broadband is the defining technology of our age and India cannot be left behind,” Ambani said.
 
 Since then Jio, which has the largest wireless data subscriber base in India, has emerged as “the biggest startup in India’s history”, Ambani said, explaining Jio had made high-quality data available across India at the lowest price in world, enabling 99% India’s population to “zip forward to the future”.
 
 “Jio was able to acquire more than 100 million customers in just 170 days after its September 2016 launch,” he said, creating a customer base that “is more than one-and-a half times the population of the UK in less than six months”, which was “unprecedented”.
 
 Ambani, who was speaking at an award function in London on Thursday night, said Jio was also of enormous societal value by helping the country’s digitally and financially excluded. “With Jio, an Indian farmer — even in the remotest village of India now has the same access to digital learning, e-banking, e-commerce, e-governance, e-healthcare, and real-time information that is enjoyed by those in cities.”
 
 He added Jio was currently connecting nearly 1.9 million schools and over 58,000 universities across India. By making the customer king, 300,000 to 500,000 Indians were also daily migrating to Jio phone, Ambani said. “It took the combined Indian telecom industry 25 years to build a pan-India 2G network. Jio took just three years to build the most advanced 4G LTE network, which is 5G-ready. This will make India a global leader in 4G by 2019.”.
 
 Steel tycoon  , who also spoke at the event said, “Jio has upended the mobile status quo in India. Jio will soon impact agriculture, education and healthcare.”
 
