NAGPUR: With the state government taking efforts to ban plastic, the industries concerned of the region have come together to prepare an action plan to reduce   in Vidarbha.

 A meeting regarding the issue was held on Wednesday between the members of Plastic Industries Association of Vidarbha and Packaged Drinking Water Manufacturers Association, Nagpur, during which the two associations chalked out various strategies.
 
 “Instead of discarding the 20-litre water jars, we will cut them and use them as planters. We will hand them over to the civic body which can place the saplings at prominent places,” said  , founder member of the Packaged Drinking Water Manufacturers Association, Nagpur.
 
 Apart from this, the associations plan to increase the scrap value of plastic waste so that it can be recycled and reused. “The scrap value of plastic waste is around Rs25 per kg. But because it is considered a menace, rag pickers and scrap dealers stay away from it,” said Bhartia.
 
 To ensure that household plastic waste reaches scrap dealers, the associations are planning to start a helpline number. “We will act as mediators. People can collect plastic waste like bottles and milk pouches and sell it to the vendor once a month or so. There are units in the city where this waste can be recycled,” said  , secretary of the Plastic Industries Association.
 
 Bhartia said public awareness campaigns will also be launched. “The vehicles used by distributors for transporting packaged drinking water will have banners displaying messages related to handling plastic waste. If the authorities concerned permit, we will also print similar messages on our bottle labels,” he added.
 
 Recently, state environment minister Ramdas Kadam stated that the government would like to start implementation of the ban on PET bottles from   and other government offices to set an example for private offices. Following this, the members of Packaged Drinking Water Manufacturers Association, Nagpur, had submitted a deputation to chief minister   and state industries minister   stating that PET bottles should not be banned.
 
 
