Last Saturday, more than 450 excited female students from across 90 schools in Mumbai eagerly gathered at the   in Kandivali. The curious youngsters, buzzing with ideas and questions, were waiting to meet the speakers of their interactive session — mountaineers Tashi and  . The 26-year-old world record holders from Dehradun didn’t just share their awe-inspiring journey with the students, but also encouraged them to pursue their dreams, come what may. “To make one’s dream come true is the biggest challenge. More than incompetence, it is fear that has killed dreams,” they advised the youngsters. BT caught up with the sisters, who spoke about twinship, mountaineering and the challenges they’ve faced. Excerpts… 

 
 
 While they took up a basic mountaineering course at the age of 18, at 21, they had already completed their summit to   in 2013, thereby becoming the world’s first female twins to scale the Sagarmatha. Tashi said, “We had declared our intention to scale Everest as early as 2010, soon after our advance mountaineering course. While our father had only advised us more training and preparation, our mother was absolutely devastated by our decision and for next two years, even the mention of it always ended with the threat of ‘I will commit suicide’! But the two of us knew we would prevail eventually. During the training, our instructors were impressed with our grit and motivation, and would often ask us to climb Mount Everest. Our principal at the institute further cemented this belief with his encouraging words. Our father would call him frequently to confirm if he genuinely believed in our capabilities.”
 Nungshi added, “In 2012, our principal had registered our names to climb Everest, but when he informed our mother, she said, ‘Sorry Colonel, we don’t want to lose our daughters’. Anyway, once we made it to Mt Everest in 2013, we thought climbing other mountains will be easier, but what we didn’t realise was that it’s never about the altitude. Every mountain teaches a lesson and the difficulties that come with each one vary immensely.”
 
 
 
 Having accomplished the Seven Summits across seven continents together, they have dedicated their adventures to the Indian girl child. When asked if their twinship has helped them during their climbs, Tashi shared, “Alone we go faster, together we go farther. Even without any substantial achievements, having a twin is always special. If it wasn’t for being together, our parents won’t have let a girl go to world’s farthest and dangerous extremes alone. Twinship is huge synergy in mountaineering. Given that we always shared the same passion for climbing mountains, it was easy for us to accept challenges and opportunities together. Being twins, it’s hard to see ourselves as totally separate from our “other half”. On a mountain, it’s important to have someone you can count on to deal with the beating our bodies take from sub-zero temperatures, the heavy loads and long hours of physically challenging activity, loneliness, near absence of medical help and the need to ensure everything goes right.”
 And what if there are disagreements? “Being the younger of the two (by 21 minutes), Tashi often gets the upper hand. Sometimes, our parents intervene and resolve it by tossing a coin in the air for a traditional head-tail outcome; the rest of the times, it is based on our instincts,” said Nungshi.
 
 
 
 Initially, along with the hurdles, they also had to dodge comments like, ‘What if you break or lose a limb?’ and ‘Who will marry you?’ Tashi shared, “To counter these statements, we resort to our favourite quote, ‘Mountains do not discriminate based on gender’. Having said that, the entire adventure industry has plenty of sexism and this is evident from the sponsorships and grants for big expeditions from the biggest players. We have managed to earn the respect of men who were initially sceptical of having girls in their teams. Serious mountaineering is as much about mental robustness as about physical strength. Both men and women climbers face the same challenge.”
 Nungshi added, “We faced innumerable gender obstacles ever since we declared our intention to pursue mountaineering. The only exception was our father. In pursuit of mountaineering, we have actually outperformed most men in our expeditions, and won their grudging admiration and respect. In life-threatening adventures, the feeling of ‘being in the same boat’ so ‘we row together or sink together’ keeps potential gender issues from playing out. Many girls in India want to climb mountains not only for the love of climbing, but also to achieve milestones and records in a field dominated by men. They want to send a strong message of gender equality and girl empowerment. In our case, too, climbing Everest was our passion, but all subsequent climbs were to promote girl empowerment. Mountaineering is particularly favourable to women as they are mentally and emotionally stronger and biologically better placed to survive in extreme cold.”
 
 
 
 Given the scope of outdoor sports in our country, this is still one area that needs some attention; pursuing a profession in this field still seems like a distant dream. Nungshi shared, “We are not an outdoor-loving nation. So far, such activities are mostly restricted to security forces, police, national cadet corps and organised public sector corporations. India is still predominantly an agrarian nation. We are a nation of extreme contradictions. There is a popular saying, ‘India is a nation where satellites are towed by bullock carts’. I think that in a way sums things up. Tashi added, “Through our foundation, we are promoting an outdoor leadership program that focusses on girls. Currently, the budget for adventure sports is miniscule and there’s very little support, if any, from the government. With sport climbing now included in Olympics, hopefully things will speed up.” They are on the verge of starting their foundation’s Outdoor Leadership School in the foothills of Mussoorie. “Our first program will start in Ladakh and Uttarakhand this summer,” said Tashi.
 
 
  
 
