BENGALURU: A small playground in KEB Colony, Sanjaynagar was abuzz at the weekend, with residents singing, dancing and participating in games. Children had their share of fun too as they indulged in sports and games. At the end, the winners were handed prizes and everyone had a sumptuous dinner.

 It wasn’t a programme organized by a residents’ association or an NGO to promote family bonding, but by supporters of   with the assembly elections in mind. Suresh is a contender for a ticket from   constituency.
 
 Land developer-turned MLC and chief minister Siddaramaiah’s confidante, Suresh had lost out on a ticket in the by-election to the constituency in 2016. The party had favoured  , grandson of veteran leader C K Jaffer Sharief. Suresh has been nursing the segment assiduously ever since and is leaving no stone unturned to get a ticket this time.
 
 Suresh’s supporters have been organizing one programme or the other in the constituency for the last few months. From holding community meetings to sporting events and doling out generous donations to youth organizations to sponsoring religious events, the list of programmes has reached out to almost every segment of the electorate.
 
 “These are all tactics of politicians to reach out to voters ahead of elections, and Suresh is no different,” said a senior citizen who attended the programme.
 
 BJP workers though see it as a kind of bribe, but without cash. “He has been splurging money to win elections, but he will not succeed,” says sitting BJP MLA, Y A Narayanaswamy.
 
 Suresh, however, insists that he isn’t doing all this just because assembly elections are around the corner. “I have been donating funds to the needy and the poor since many years,” he said. “I have been funding the education of poor students and helping poor patients receive dialysis. Why are BJP leaders are not talking about this?”
 
 The state government is also supporting Suresh by pumping in funds for the constituency. Recently, the government had issued an order asking officials to take up works suggested by Suresh in the constituency. However, it was withdrawn after Narayanaswamy opposed the move in the assembly.
 
 “Although an MLC, I have got the government to sanction Rs 67 crores for the development of the constituency, whereas the MLA has brought just Rs 40 crores. This shows how committed I am for the development of the constituency,” Suresh whose MLC tenure ends in June, said.
 
 Naryanaswamy’s PhD becomes talk of Hebbal
 
 MLA Y A Narayanaswamy’s PhD for his research on ‘Integrated Water Resources Management for Sustainable Irrigation: Emerging Issues and Challenges’ has become the talk of Hebbal constituency.
 
 Besides posters and buntings tied to electric poles, huge hoardings congratulating Narayanaswamy for his academic achievements have been installed at every nook and corner of the constituency. Many see it an effort to impress urban, educated voters.
 
 Local grapevine has it that the MLA had sent out word to all party workers to address him as Dr Narayanaswamy.
 
 
