Balaji Kumar, who made the 2013 thriller   with  , is now set to begin his next, which he has tentatively titled  . And he is hoping to rope in Prasanna, Andrea and Madonna for this suspense thriller. He reveals that Andrea and   have read the script and liked it, and informs that Madonna, who is shooting abroad presently, will read it soon. “But all three are yet to sign on the dotted line. We are planning to shoot the film in Mauritius by July, so it all depends on their availability at the point of time,” he adds. John Vijay, who was part of the director’s debut film, will be in this one as well.

 The director is still smarting at accusations that followed after the release of his first film, alleging that he had plagiarised the British film, London To Brighton. “I couldn’t credit the original for complicated reasons, but the original’s director gave his blessings for the project. In fact, in the credits, instead of ‘written and directed by’, I went with ‘scripted and directed by’ as I had not written the story of the film,” he claims.
 
 Interestingly, his new film is also an adaptation — of a literary source. “The script is based on a popular novel, which has been made into films earlier. But my version will be closer to the novel. We are in talks for buying the rights for the film adaptation, so I cannot reveal the title of the novel right now,” informs the director.
 
 A European cinematographer and a Bollywood production designer will be working on the film, which will also have concept artist Vishwa, who has worked on films like 2.0. Girishh, the composer of Vidiyum Munn and the recent Aval, is the music director.
 Meanwhile, the director is also simultaneously working on another film, a murder mystery, titled Kolai, based on a true crime. “An American film was made based on this true, unsolved case, therefore mine will be a palimpsest of that work,” says Kumar, adding that the cast is yet to be decided for the film.
 
 However, on the technical front, the film will be a reunion of the Vidiyum Munn crew — cinematographer Sivakumar Vijayan, Girishh, editor Sathyaraj Natarajan and sound designer Vijay Rathinam.
 
