NAGPUR: It is important that the gap between government and industries is bridged and business environment simplified so that the investors could reap benefits of various schemes launched as part of ‘Make in India’ project, said Suja Chandy, vice-president of  , on Saturday. 

 Chandy was speaking on the opening day of the two-day entrepreneurship conference organized by the Nagpur chapter of The Indus Entrepreneurs (TiE) at Persistent Systems, Gayatri Nagar. The meet is aimed at helping budding industrialists to climb the ladder of entrepreneurial success.
 
 Speaking on ‘Leveraging government initiatives’, Chandy put forth statistical data, showcasing the increasing graph of India’s progress and urged those present to benefit from the initiative the organization has undertaken.
 
 Sheetal Amte, CEO of Anandwan, Warora, Anil Nair, president of Credai and LS Murty, director of  , spoke on subjects like ‘Go to market’, ‘Competition driving innovation’ and ‘Business and ethics’, besides others.
 
 Milind Chittawar, president of the Nagpur chapter of TiE, explained the agenda and objectives of TiE and  . “The aim is to provide the probable industrialists with mentoring, education, networking, incubation and funding opportunities. The theme of the conference is ‘Entrepreneurs... RISE’. It stands for reinvent, innovate, success and enjoy. 
 
 He said entrepreneurs go through a lot of hardships; sometimes they fail, and also succeed. But they always learn from it and rise. He motivated the delegates to keep their ambitions and aspirations high even if one is not in the best place at that moment. 
 
 This seventh edition of the conference was divided into a number of dialogue, keynote addresses, panel discussions and question and answer sessions. The event was attended by a lot of budding entrepreneurs from central India most of whom were youngsters.
 
 The second day will witness mentoring sessions on topics like ‘Corporates and start-ups: Significant companions’, ‘Disruption in technology’, ‘Startups’, ‘Human resources: Key insights’, ‘Rags to riches’, ‘It’s determination that works’, ‘Learning from film industry’ and ‘Arts and hobbies’ which will be presented by prominent industrialists from various fields.
 
 
