NEW DELHI: The  's "free   scheme" appears to have helped bring a large number of Delhiites into the formal   while encouraging consumers to conserve water. 

  Data from the annual economic survey shows unmetered connections in the city registered their biggest drop in recent history - getting more than halved between 2015-16 and 2016-17, from about 3.9 lakh to 1.8 lakh. Concurrently, metered connections jumped by nearly 4 lakh, from 19.2 lakh to 23.2 lakh. The usual annual increase has been of up to 1 lakh. 
 
 DJB officials said the 'subsidy factor' introduced by the government in 2015 had playing a key role in changing consumer behaviour, including, it appears, an actual decrease in per capita consumption which remains less than 50 gallons a day.
 
 The AAP government had announced the scheme of giving free water to households consuming up to 20,000 litres in a month. They are charged the full amount if consumption exceeds 20,000 litres. The scheme came into force on March 1, 2015.
 
 “A large number of these consumers have shifted from unmetered connections to metered ones since only consumers with functional meters can avail benefits of the scheme. The lure of this scheme too might be a factor in decreasing the per capita consumption from 48 to 47 gallons a day but that can also be due to improved data collection,” a DJB official said.
 
 “Earlier, no one used to bother whether meters were functional or not but now benefits such as the free water scheme and rebates have been linked to metered connections and functional readings,” the official said.
 
 DJB, interestingly, had witnessed an increase of almost 1.3 lakh in unmetered connections just before the scheme was introduced. DJB attributes it to a number of factors including an increase in the consumer base due to a large number of fresh consumers coming in with new colonies being notified. “Additionally, we were also in the phase of notifying new meters during that phase” the official added. Consumers with unmetered connections get a bill on the basis of average usage.
 
 During the same period, a reduction of 1 gallon per person per day has been witnessed. The consumption pattern had plateaued at 50 gallons/day between 2008-09 and 2013-14. Between 2000-1 and 2007-8, there was a 10-gallon jump. Explaining the per capita consumption reduction, the official said: “The introduction of meters has also improved data collection. Both improvement in actual metering of readings and encouragement to use less water has led to this trend of per capita consumption remaining low.”
 
