CHANDIGARH: Hundreds of residents of the   ( ) gathered at Sector 56, Chandigarh, against CHB’s order to deposit penalties on annual basis by March 31, 2018 for regularisation of the need-based changes made within plot area and storeyline.

 The members of the federation said according to the notices served through print media, if   is not paid by March 31, 2018, then notices of cancellation shall be issued by CHB. All the speakers and public gathered there agreed raising their hands that no one will deposit these penalties.
 
 Some of the specific demands of the protesters are that 3-feet balcony should be permitted on entire facade and chajja over the windows (including additional window) should also be allowed. Also, kitchen was not provided by the government in the approved drawing of the ground floor of each building. The provision of kitchen on the 1st floor is also too small and does not fulfill the requirement of two to three families residing in these dwelling units. The sizes of the families too have grown with time. Hence, the incidental space, which is within zoning line measuring about 6’x6’ on the ground floor, should be permitted to the residents.
 
 The residents urged the Chandigarh Housing Board that these people cannot afford to   heavy penalty imposed on them. Hence, a one-time reasonable compounding fees may be charged from them after considering the above two demands of the residents.
 
 People opposed the illegal penalty of Rs 100 per square feet being charges annually by CHB. Instead one-time reasonable compounding fees may be charged for any need-based changes within the plot area and storeyline. Facilitating the transfer of flats, the residents of CHB and tenement and rehabilitation colonies should be in a time-bound period and without any cumbersome process, notices of violations/resumption/eviction should immediately be stopped, and no action should be taken on any notices already served to the residents, till, the need-based policy is framed by the board/administration to the satisfaction of residents. 
 
 
