Patiala: Detection of 12 types of explosive materials, including TNT, RDX and HMX (octogen), used in blasts by criminals will now be easier, courtesy a new technique developed by scholars from Punjabi University, Patiala, in collaboration with Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO).

 With the help of technique, the probe agencies would be able to reach a conclusion over the explosive constituents used in the explosion. It may further help in tracking the criminals behind such acts.
 
 The research conducted by university scholars along with DRDO may also prove helpful to know about the concentration level of explosive constituents in the environment, raising alarm about the probability of cancer.
 
 The Rs 15-lakh research project was wholly funded by DRDO. It took around three to conduct the research to detect explosive constituents and the same was published recently this month by an international journal ‘Separation Science’.
 
 Researchers claimed that the study would prove beneficial in detecting and analyzing the quantification of explosive contents at a very lower concentration of parts per billion (ppb) in both the environmental as well as biological samples.
 
 Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GCMS) and micro extraction with packed sorbent (MEPS) techniques were used to conduct the research. The researchers say that the method had been proving helpful for the defence agencies not only in India, but across the world to detect materials used in the explosive and its concentration level.
 
 “After the bomb explodes at a place, our research will help detect the main constituents of explosive materials used in the blast. This detection will prove beneficial for the investigation agencies to track the case and reach the criminals. After explosion, sometimes the material gets transformed, but our detection method will trace out the transformed materials too,” said Ashok Kumar Malik, head of the chemistry department, Punjabi University.
 
 “The explosive testing also leaves its constituents in the soil, water and surroundings and we will be able to detect these at very low ppb level. The contents of explosives can be detected in the blood, urine, and air among the workers who are working at ordinance factories,” Malik added.
 
 He said very less work had been done in that regard and the MEPS technique was a new method to trace constituents of explosives at the lowest level of 0.1ppb so far.
 
 Gaurav Dhingra, assistant professor at Punjabi University Engineering College in Rampura Phul, said, “I have been working in the field for over 12 years. The research is helpful in the environmental and forensic concerns. This will help in tracing the quantity of explosive constituents in the soil, water or air that can also cause cancer.”
 
 
