NAGPUR: Unauthorized constructions have cropped up around the airport, especially in the runway approach funnel, posing a  . Taking serious cognisance, Aerodrome Environment Management Committee (AEMC) has convened a meeting to chalk out measures to tackle the problems. A few days ago, an Air India flight with 180 passengers was hit by a bird while landing at the airport. 
 
 AEMC, under divisional commissioner Anup Kumar, will meet on March 5. The committee will discuss nine proposals, including problems from unauthorized constructions. “Airports Authority of India (AAI) has conducted obstruction limitation survey of airport. Also, the same survey was conducted by private agency appointed by Mihan India Limited (MIL), airport’s operator. It was reported that some buildings are infringing on the approach funnel of runway-14 and transitional surface of the airport. Also, new constructions have emerged close to the airport boundary wall. Owners of some houses have constructed walls and parking along airport boundary wall, which is a threat to airport security. MIL has informed about all these unauthorized constructions to NMC and NIT for appropriate action,” MIL said in one of the proposals. 
  
 MIL has also sought help of NMC and state government to lodge complaint with police department against persons slaughtering and dumping animal waste and other garbage within 10km from aerodrome reference point. “Aircraft Rule-1937 prohibits slaughtering and flaying of animals, depositing of rubbish and other polluted or obnoxious matter, which attract vultures or other birds, and animals, within 10km from aerodrome reference point. There is a provision of imprisonment up to three years or fine of Rs10 lakh and both. To ensure effective implementation of the provisions, civil aviation department sent a letter dated March 22, 2017, directing municipal bodies and state government to lodge complaints with police,” MIL said. 
  
 MIL also stressed the need for stringent action against owners of cattle straying in front and on access roads to airport terminal building. “NMC served notices to owners of cattle but there is no improvement. NMC inspection is required twice a week during morning and evening hours. NMC has also not registered FIR against owners of cattle with Sonegaon police station,” MIL said. 
  
 Municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal, NIT chairman Deepak Mhaisekar and officials of MIL and AAI etc are expected to attend the meeting. 
  
  
