TRICHY: When quality education is offered free of cost in government-run schools, why go debt-ridden in search of future in private schools - this is the message that K Paramathi panchayat union primary school in   is sending across.

 This might be the first time that a panchayat school has produced a short film detailing its infrastructure facilities and it as good as any of the high-tech private schools. The parents are also requested to visit government schools once and then decide on admitting them to other schools.
 
 The film, with a duration of 13 minutes, highlights the improved infrastructure in government schools but lacking patronage from parents with the advent of private schools.
 
 The short film Velicham in Tamil has already been viewed by over 5,000 people. The film shows how a parent becomes debt-ridden after unable to pay fee in a private school and finally get his child admitted to a government school. 
 
 Headmaster   came up with the idea of the short film after coming across incidents of parents becoming debt ridden to pay fees in the private schools. 
 
 “A middle class family spends over half of its income towards educating their children. While they do so with the hope of giving their children quality education, they forget the fact that government schools are capable of giving quality education, that too free of cost,” said Selvakkannan. 
 
 He said that their school also offers seven types of extracurricular activities that include spoken Hindi and English apart from dancing, yoga and music. The school has led screen and television in each class room. 
 
 “It is time that parents should shun conventional perception of government schools lacking quality,” he said, while adding people can have faith in teachers as they are recruited after clearing a tough entrance test.
 
 “Through this short film, we want to stress that children are not only ensured about quality education but also get free schemes of the state government including uniform and text books,” added Selvakkannan. 
 
 “When all the facilities are available in the panchayat school, I did not find any need to go to a private schools,” said R P  , a tailor by profession, who also acted in the short film. 
 
 Muthu has also admitted both his children in the panchayat union school and says that the children are not pressurized into academics which brings out their hidden talents. 
 
 
