GUWAHATI: While taking part in the   at   in Kokrajhar on Saturday, Assam chief minister   said the state government is giving a renewed push to its business relations with the Bhutan government, which would ultimately lead to rapid growth in the Bodoland Territorial Area Districts (BTAD). 

 The CM also appreciated the   (BTC) leadership and the Bodo community for maintaining peace in the BTAD through harmonious and peaceful co-existence. Sonowal also said steps are afoot to build an international highway covering a distance of 264 km along the border areas of Assam, connecting BTAD with Bhutan. 
 
 This move has already received an approval in principle from the central government and is awaiting clearance from the Union ministry of environment and forest, he added.
 
 The CM further said the state government is working to empower all communities to make them equal partners in the development narrative of the state. "The best quality of the Bodos is their disciplined, hard working and courageous nature. These positive traits are immensely helping in their growth. The Bodo community will have to play an important role in taking Assam forward," Sonowal said. 
 
 Stating that the peaceful environment helps in the all-round development of BTAD, the CM assured the BTC administration to extend his support in all its endeavours for growth in the region. "Peace in BTC is a result of united efforts and this is one of the greatest catalysts in ushering in development in BTAD. The state government would support the BTC administration in their development initiatives," the CM added. He also called on all the communities of the state to stay united and foster brotherhood, harmony and peaceful co-existence among them.
 
 BTC chief   said unconditional support from all the people of BTAD has resulted in rapid development in the region. 
 
 Highlighting its various initiatives, Mohilary informed that the BTC administration would soon take up measures for the all-round development of the Bodo people in the state.
 
 
