Dabolim: Union minister for civil aviation Suresh   is in the process of talking to leading airlines regarding the promotion of Goa as an international tourist destination. Making the announcement on Monday, Prabhu said he would ask leading airlines such as Emirates, Lufthansa and British Airways to feature Goa, along with some other Indian destinations, in their marketing campaign.

 The minister, who was in the state on a two-day visit, said, “I had a meeting with the global CEO of   and told him to market destinations in India, particularly, Goa.” He also spoke about plans to attract investment into the state’s industrial sector. He was talking to the media after chairing a meeting to review the modernization of the Goa international airport. 
 
 Prabhu also met state ministers   (information and technology), Vijai Sardesai (town and country planning) and Ramakrishna Dhavalikar (PWD and transport) and discussed steps to promote the state, while addressing infrastructural gaps.
 
 Prabhu, who also holds the commerce and industry portfolio, has set in motion a plan to bring in private investment into Goa. He said the Centre is in talks with the   and other major institutions to promote Goa as an investment destination under the Skill Development and Startup India initiative. “Invest India has been directed to globally promote Goa for investment,” he said.
 
 The minister is counting on the state’s popularity as a lifestyle destination to bring in high-spending tourists and major international companies which in turn could lead to employment generation. “This is a major programme we launched so that Goa gets high-end tourists, which will create more jobs,” he said. “Goa’s unique identity and brand must be maintained, retained and enhanced,” he said, adding that the Centre and state government were “working as partners” in the programme.
 
 To meet the projected increase in tourist footfalls, the Centre and state are expected to focus on infrastructure requirements, Prabhu said adding that Goa’s lone airport is being renovated and modernized for this.
 
 
