MUMBAI: Alarmed by discontent among tribals over the forest department's failure to allot them land they were tilling, tribal development   had, on November 11, 2016, issued stringent guidelines to ensure all pending disputes under the Forest Rights Act were resolved within six months. The assurance given by CM   to agitating tribals in Mumbai on Monday was more or less similar and had to be given because the deadline was not met earlier. 

 In fact, prior to issuing his order,   had had a meeting with CPM legislator from   district   on October 7, 2016 to draft an action plan for allotment of forest land to tribals in a time-bound manner. Gavit had brought to Savara's notice that dereliction of duty and red tapism at various levels was responsible for delays in transferring land. Notwithstanding the order and instructions issued to local collectors, hardly any action was taken, prompting Gavit to lead the recent march to Mumbai.
 
  The November 2016 order said the district-level committee set up under the Act should take a final decision on appeals for allotment within six months and ensure no appeal was pending beyond six months. Further, it was directed that once an appeal was made, the committee should visit the spot and examine the case and evidence submitted by the claimant. 
 
 Under the Act, an application has to be first submitted to the gram sabha, which initiates the process of determining the nature and extent of forest rights, receives and hears claims, prepares a list of claimants and maintains a register of all details. A gram sabha comprises 10-15 persons, including women and members of Scheduled Tribes and the Forest Rights Committee. After the gram sabha decides, appeals can be filed before a sub-divisional level committee headed by a deputy collector and then before a district-level committee led by the collector and a state-level monitoring committee headed by the chief secretary.
 
  The Act requires a person to submit at least two out of 13 evidences to establish that he is a tribal and has been cultivating the land, which shall not exceed four hectares. 
 
  Besides time-bound disposal of cases, Gavit had raised two other issues. He had said that if an appeal was pending before the competent authority, encroachments on forest land should not be removed and land in possession of the tribal should be considered his own. 
 
 
