BENGALURU: We are doing a hiphop concert in Guwahati. I am going to sleep really well tonight.” Speaking to a 5000-strong crowd of youngsters in Assam’s capital, rapper Raftaar exulted that   and rapping, considered an underground music genre, could get people out of their homes on a Sunday. And this in a city that is not among India’s top six metros. The headlining act at the   Music Show in Guwahati, Raftaar added, “I don’t want to do Bollywood or perform at weddings. This is what I want: to see hip-hop everywhere in India.” Strong words for a performer who has rapped a string of hits for movies like Dangal, Tiger Zinda Hai, Baaghi, Gabbar is Back and Fukrey Returns among others.

 Sticking to performing his original hip-hop hits, the Kerala-born Hindi rapper quipped, “I am not going to sing any Bollywood songs today. The audience, in turn, surprised him when they started rapping along with him. For a layperson who may not be into the hip hop music scene, the concert would have served as adequate proof that the Indian indie hip-hop scene is having its moment in the sun.
 
 INDIAN INDIE   REFLECTS INDIA’S MULTICULTURALISM
 
 “The hip-hop scene that we are seeing in India today is a lot like what was happening in the US in the 90s. There are a lot of styles coming out. Whether they are from Mumbai, Delhi, Punjab or the northeast, all the artistes have their own style of rapping.And I think that is a reflection of India’s multiculturalism,” says Vignesh Shivanand, better known by his rap moniker Brodha V. One of the most recognized hip-hop artistes in the country, the Bengaluru-based artiste started off his rapping career over a decade ago. “Those days, when you rapped fast people just wouldn’t get you. Today, I have kids who rap my words along with me,” says Shivanand who learnt rapping on his own.
 
 Late last November, Desi Hip Hop, a platform for powering hip-hop in south-east Asia produced Suede Gully. The video, that has 188,733 views till date on YouTube, brought together eight artistes rapping in four different languages. ‘An ode to the unsung heroes of the streets brewing hip hop as a culture from the very roots’, the song features Mumbai rapper Divine, Delhi-based rapper Prabhdeep along with rap groups Khasi Bloodz from Meghalaya and Madurai Souljour from Tamil Nadu.
 
 ‘WE RAP ABOUT OUR LIVES’
 
 The video may have brought them long-denied attention but Khasi Bloodz’ Donbok Kharkongor (DBok) and Ritik Roy Malnqiang (Big Ri), have been rapping since they were in school. I think I was 16 when I started to write my songs,” says Malnqiang. With ace rapping skills – “We often get told that we are better than some   in the West,” Kharkongor jokes”– the band in their songs talk about issues affecting the youth in their city,  . “Our songs are like a biopic of our lives and we write about things affecting us,” says Kharkongor.
 
 According to most indie rappers, it is this opportunity to freely talk about issues that has pushed hip-hop music into the forefront in India. Shivanand says, “Hip-hop is a lot like rock in that it is a medium that allows you to address angst. You also don’t need to necessarily learn music or how to play the guitar.”
 
 The accessibility that rapping affords has made it the favourite genre for India’s millennials. “While rappers in Mumbai talk about life in the streets, rappers in the south talk about their middle-class struggles,” says Shivanand. Kharkongor and Malnqiang say that rapping saved them. “There are a lot of suicides among the youth in Shillong today. But hip-hop, or rather, music has saved us. It gives us an outlet to vent out our frustrations. If I’d not become a rapper, I would probably not have survived,” says the 20-something Kharkongor.
 
 RAPPING TO ASSERT IDENTITIES
 
 For Tripura native Borkung ‘BK’ Hrankhawl, rapping is a medium to assert his Indian identity. Which is why, besides English, he raps, rather lucidly too, in Hindi. The vocalist of his eponymous band Borkung, BK says, “People who come to our concert for the first time are surprised when they listen to me rapping in Hindi. They have this stereotypical notion that because I am from the northeast, I wouldn’t know the language, but why wouldn’t I? I studied Hindi in school!” he says before revealing that he was almost stabbed to death by two men in Delhi because ‘they thought I was a Nepali’. An early initiate to hip-hop – “I started free-styling when I was in 7th standard,”– BK’s songs have him asserting his northeastern roots.
 
 “It is funny and sad at the same time that a majority of Indians lack an understanding of the northeast. I believe that if they visited our part of the country, they would love us. And once they know us, there wouldn’t be any racism,” he says.
 
  actor and rapper Alok Babu, who performs under the moniker All.OK, too uses hip-hop to promote Kannada culture and language. The song, Nan Kannadiga in his album KA01, has him unequivocally asking non-Kannadigas to learn the language. “It was just our way to ask non-Kannadigas to learn basic Kannada,” he says. While rapping was an alien sound when he started in 2007, today, he gets offers to perform hip-hop across Karnataka. “We have performed in the most rural of places in the state,” he says.
 
 With opportunities to perform exploding, and promoters interested in pushing the music genre, most indie hip-hop artistes agree that this is hip-hop’s moment.
 
 
