NEW DELHI:   says that the   statistics in the Central Pollution Control Board’s report on the water in the Yamuna are being used to create confusion in order to divert from the potable water crisis in the capital prior to the meeting between the chief secretaries of Delhi and Haryana on Tuesday. The recent CPCB report had pointed out that ammonia levels in many Delhi drains emptying into the Yamuna were higher than the levels in the water reaching the capital from Haryana.

 Saying that channels like Delhi Gate drain, ITO barrage and Barapulla were downstream and water from these was used only for irrigation purposes in western UP,  ,   vice-chairman, said confusion was being created by applying drinking water parameters to irrigation water. “The urgent matter at hand is the industrial ammonia pollutants from Panipat, due to which water supply in Delhi has been hit since January,” Mohaniya explained. He added that the long-term process for reducing pollutants in the downstream section of the Yamuna was already being covered under the Yamuna Action Plan-3.
 
 “The parameters for irrigation water are completely different from those for raw drinking water,” Mohaniya said. “We have identified the site of pollution of our raw drinking water at Khojkipur, 60km upstream of the Yamuna pond.” DJB argued that it was losing 30-50 million gallons a day of water and was being forced to undertake rationing. “Our three major water treatment plants are operating 30% below their capacity, leading to disruptions in supplies,” the DJB official added.
 
 DJB took the matter to the National Green Tribunal, which directed CPCB to take water samples to ascertain the current pollutant levels. In these samples, the Delhi Gate drain logged 38ppm ammonia level, Sonia Vihar drain, 35ppm, Barapullah 21ppm, ITO barrage, 24ppm, Wazirabad reservoir, 1.4ppm and Okhla treatment plant, 0.8ppm. DJB is able to treat raw water with ammonia levels up to 0.9ppm.
 
 Mohaniya insisted that the CPCB report was being cited to obfuscate the issue. “Drinking water is picked from upstream, not these drains. The pollution from Haryana consists of industrial waste from Panipat’s dyeing industry, while Delhi only has sewage waste,” he said. These arguments will be discussed along with readings of ammonia taken at various spots at Tuesday’s meeting between the two states.
 
 CPCB has classified Yamuna’s water quality in Category E, which makes it fit only for ‘irrigation, industrial cooling and controlled waste disposal’.
 
 
