Surat: Thousands of Dawoodi Bohras from all over the world gathered in the Diamond City to celebrate the 74th birthday of the 53rd al-Dai al-Mutlaq and head of the community,   After the demise of his father and 52nd al-Dai al-Mutlaq, Dr Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin in 2014, Dr Syedna Saifuddin announced that he would celebrate his birthday on the day of his father’s date of birth as a lasting tribute to his memory. Dr Syedna Burhanuddin RA was born on the 20th of Rabi al-Akhir, the fourth month of the Islamic calendar, which falls on the 7th of January this year.

 A celebratory procession was taken out by community members on the eve of the birthday in Zampa Bazaar. The procession, which commenced after evening prayers, made its way from the academy’s sports ground to the stage on the Devri. On Sunday, the day of Milad (the Arabic word for birthday), Dr Syedna Saifuddin delivered a sermon at the historic al-Masjid al-Mu’azzam. Dr Syedna Saifuddin counselled the community members on maintaining a healthy work-life balance and emphasized on the importance of memorizing the Holy Quran. 
 
 “Respecting family values, maintaining peace and harmony among fellow citizens, proper upbringing of children and helping those who are less fortunate were some of the teachings covered by Dr Syedna in his sermon”, community spokesperson Mufaddal Shakir said, adding that more than 32,000 Dawoodi Bohras from across the world have gathered in Surat for the occasion. 
 
 Dr Syedna Saifuddin arrived in Surat on the 25th of December 2017. During his stay in the city, various community programmes were held including inauguration of a masjid at Rehmatpura locality and hosting of a mass marriage. Surat city holds great historic significance for Dawoodi Bohras, for it has been the headquarters of the community’s leadership for almost 200 years. Seven Dais, the heads of the community, are buried here and it is the location of the principal branch of the community’s renowned seminary and Arabic academy, Aljamea-tus-Saifiyah.
 
 
