NEW DELHI: Attorney general   on Friday warned the   that there would be chaos if it accepted former law minister Shanti Bhushan’s plea to dilute the CJI’s exclusive power to allocate cases and entrust it to the collegium of the five senior judges.

 
 Arguing before a bench of Justices A K Sikri and Ashok Bhushan, Venugopal said it would be disastrous for the unity among SC judges if the exclusive administrative function of the   to allocate cases and determine composition of benches was entrusted to the collegium, which comprises the CJI and four seniormost judges which selects persons for appointment as judges to the SC and HCs.
 
 He said selection of judges was an altogether different matter. “Involving multiple persons or collegium in allocation of cases will complicate the issue and create chaos as individual judges could clash over where to send the case for hearing,” he said, adding that personal interest of judges could see them demand that the bench headed by them should be entrusted with hearing a particular case.
 
 “For this reason and many others, the CJI alone should be the authority to decide on the administrative side the allocation of cases to different benches and their composition,” the AG said. The SC reserved its verdict on Bhushan’s petition.
 
 Bhushan, through his advocate son Prashant Bhushan, had filed the PIL echoing Justice J Chelameswar-led rebel judges’ ‘bench fixing’ charge against the CJI and wanted the collegium procedure for distribution of cases to SC benches. They said in matters of allocation of work, the CJI being the ‘master of roster’ should be interpreted to mean “collegium of five seniormost judges of the SC”. 
 
 The Bhushans clarified that they were not challenging any judgment declaring the CJI to be the ‘master of roster’ but confining the plea “to the scope and ambit of powers of the CJI in listing matters and seeking appropriate declaration from the SC that such powers must be exercised lawfully, for objective and not subjective considerations and must always be exercised in a non-arbitrary and transparent manner in tune with the requirements of law”.
 
 But the rest of the petition referred to the CJI’s “questionable” manner of listing petitions before benches headed by “select junior judges”, including the one seeking an independent probe into the death of judge B H Loya in 2014. Allocation of the Loya petition initially to a bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra, as per the rebel judges led by  , had triggered their unprecedented January 12 press conference and provided the platform for the subsequent move by Congress and Left parties to push for a removal motion against the CJI.
 
 
