MUMBAI: The   and NCP on Tuesday agreed in principle to contest the 2019 Lok Sabha and state assembly elections together, reports Prafulla Marpakwar. The two parties had ended their alliance three years ago ahead of the 2014 state elections and lost power after 15 years.

 While state NCP chief Sunil Tatkare confirmed a decision had been taken in principle at a meeting of senior Maharashtra Congress and NCP leaders, state Congress president   said a final call would be taken only after a meeting between Congress president   and NCP chief  .
 
 The first move towards re-forging the alliance assumes importance in view of the Shiv Sena’s decision to go it alone in next year’s polls.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Apart from Ashok Chavan, the Congress was represented at Tuesday’s meeting by another ex-CM Prithviraj Chavan, leader of opposition in the assembly Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil and legislative council deputy chairman Manikrao Thakre. Tatkare, former ministers Ajit Pawar and   and leader of opposition in the council Dhananjay Munde represented the NCP.
 
 Tatkare told TOI, “There was unanimity on contesting the elections jointly to defeat BJP and Sena. The modalities and seat- sharing formula will be worked out later, when Rahul Gandhi and the NCP chief meet.” 
 
 Ashok Chavan said, “We discussed at length a proposal to contest the LS and assembly polls jointly. Our aim is to defeat BJP and Sena. We will knock at the doors of like-minded parties too, including Prakash Ambedkar.”
 
 “Today’s meeting was a first step towards securing consensus,” Vikhe Patil said.
 
 Discussions on re-entering into an alliance had gained momentum after Sharad Pawar led a rally of Congress and NCP activists in Nagpur on December 12 last year to press for a complete loan waiver for the state’s farmers. Since then, Pawar has been insisting on a tie-up for 2019.
 
 A senior NCP leader who did not wish to be named said leaders of his party were paying a heavy price following the loss of power in 2014. “One of our senior leaders [Chhagan Bhujbal] is in jail, while two other senior leaders, Ajit Pawar and Tatkare, are facing an investigation by the Anti-Corruption Bureau though there is no truth in the charges against them,” he said.
 
 The NCP leader said since BJP and Sena will contest the elections separately, the Congress and NCP will benefit hugely if they contest as allies. “We will have to work out a compromise formula and fight the polls together,” he said.
 
 After Pawar formed the NCP in 1999, his party and the Congress had contested the 1999 LS and assembly polls separately. But after the polls, the two parties joined hands to form the government in the state. In the 2004 and 2009 LS and assembly polls, Congress and NCP fought as allies and won. In 2014, they fought the LS polls jointly but after a debacle, the NCP terminated its alliance with Congress for the assembly elections later the same year.
 
 
