MEERUT: Polarisation is still at the heart of the crucial bypolls in   constituency, where BJP’s   had won with ease in the aftermath of the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots. However, this time around, the grand alliance claims that 5.80 lakh Muslims, 2.5 lakh Dalits and over 1.5 lakh   in Kairana, accounting for roughly 60% of the electorate, have been rallying behind the SP-RLD alliance.
 
 “The numbers and the momentum are with us. With Jats and Dalits on our side, polarisation will not let BJP through,” Sanjay Lathar, SP MLC and the party’s   poll in-charge said. The BJP however rubbished the claims as caste arithmetic which no longer held true.
  
 “We are fighting this election in the name of development, not caste. We fought with development as our agenda in 2014 and won. If they (alliance) claim that all the Muslims are with them, we can also say that all the Hindus are with us. But we do not want to play that kind of politics,” BJP’s west UP in-charge Vijay Bahadur Pathak said.
  
 On the ground, BJP, jittery after the Gorakhpur and Phulpur bypoll loss, has been on its toes over the new caste arithmetic where Kashyaps, Gujjars and others, dubbed to be BJP loyalists, comprise nearly 40% of the electorate.
  
 “Unlike 2014, Jats have been rallying behind Ajit Singh. Plus, the consolidated minority votes has shifted the arithmetic away from us,” a BJP insider told TOI.
  
 Jats and a split opposition were dubbed to be game changers for BJP in 2014. Claiming that the party has swinging votes among Dalits and Jats, MP Sanjeev Baliyan said, “Among Dalits, people from Kori, Khatik and Valmiki communities are still with BJP. A section of Jat voters also support us.”
  
 This time around, the grand alliance is trying to keep the flock together with RLD in attack mode over farm issues, especially the plight of cane farmers. The consistent attack has unsettled BJP with CM Yogi Adityanath trying to ward off some of the concerns during his first bypoll rally in Saharanpur on May 22.
  
 “The earlier regimes had shut down operations of several sugar mills and we revived them once we came to power,” Adityanath said at the rally in Saharanpur’s Ambehta. He also assured the gathering that strict action would be taken against officials who fail to waive off farm loans by May 31.
  
 As of May 11, the arrears of cane farmers had accumulated to Rs 11,856 crore. Though in the 2017-18 season, UP has crushed and produced record sugarcane and sugar respectively, low price of sugar in the market has given a blow to the mills which is said to be one of the reasons for accumulated dues.
