KOCHI: With mounting losses threatening to derail Kochi Metro, the Kochi Metro Rail Ltd ( ) has rejected the Urban Mass Transit Company ( ) proposal to provide an underwater connectivity as part of phase-III extension. The Pachalam-Fort Kochi link was proposed in the third phase along with Angamali extension.

 The proposal shocked KMRL honchos as the estimate touched Rs 15,000 crore. A cost escalation could take it even beyond Rs 20,000 crore. The 18.33km stretch consisted of 15 stations of which five were underground.
 
 After making a presentation on the present status and future plans for Kochi Metro before the union minister of statistics and programme implementation D V   on Thursday, KMRL managing director APM   said, “UMTC conducted a study for taking Kochi Metro from Pachalam to Fort Kochi. It was envisaged as an underwater project, and was shelved due exorbitant cost. Alternate plans are being explored to take the Metro to Fort Kochi,” he said.
 
 It is pointed out that the existing railbridge connecting   and Edappally could be utilised to transport people from the city to Fort Kochi. Trams could be introduced to provide connectivity between Vallarpadam and Vypeen from where commuters can use RO-RO services to reach Fort Kochi.
 
 In the project update submitted to the minister it was stated that when Kochi Metro project gets extended from Aluva to Angamaly it will cover a distance of 19.90km and will have 14 stations along the stretch. According to the ministry a detailed project report (DPR) was being prepared for the proposals in phase-III.
 
 The update also stated that 11.20 km stretch from JLN stadium to Kakkanad consisted of 11stations, and a detailed project report (DPR) was being prepared. The stations are Palarivattom Junction, Palarivattom bypass, Chembumukku, Vazhakkala, Padamugal, Kakkand Junction, Cochin Special Economic Zone, Chittethukara, Rajagiri, Infopark-1 and Infopark-2.
 
 The Metro agency informed Gowda that as on December 31, 2017, KMRL received Rs 4,513.55 crore and incurred an expenditure of Rs 4,364.52 crore. The update says that Metro agency received 100% equity from both the centre and state governments. It also said that KMRL has received 100% sub-debt from the centre. The loan provided by the French development agency, AFD has also been fully drawn.
 
 Regarding the operational details, Kochi Metro said they have an average ridership of 34,652 along the 18.22km from Aluva to Maharaja’s College.
 
 The average fare box collection per month stood at Rs 3.40 crore, and the average non-fare box collection per month was Rs 1.30 crore.
 
 As per the DPR prepared for the 25.61km stretch from Aluva to Pettah in the first phase of Kochi Metro the average ridership is 3.82lakh.
 
 The average fare box collection per month is Rs 21.20 crore and the average nonfare box collection is Rs 2.12 crore.
 
