LUCKNOW: In a tragic road accident, a three-yearold girl died while her sister, mother and uncle suffered serious injuries when their bike was hit by a bus from behind. The driver of the bus also sustained injuries in the incident that occurred in Gosainganj on Wednesday.

 According to the police, Rita of Mai Ji Ka Purwa was on a bike being ridden by her brother Jitendra with her daughters  
 
 (17) and Arpita (3). They were headed to Barabanki.
 
 In violation of rules, there were four people, including a child, on the bike. None of them was wearing a helmet.
 
 At Rehmatnagar crossing, a state-run bus from Basti depot knocked the bike from behind. The nervous bus driver swerved the bus and in the process, it rammed a tree. With the help of passers-by, Rita called the police.
 
 SP (rural) Gaurav Grover said the driver, Rakesh Mishra, had been booked for causing death by negligent driving, rash driving, and causing danger to life of others. A huge crowd soon assembled, bringing traffic on the route to a halt.
 
 The protesters demanded that drivers of buses be trained properly first and only then given buses to drive.
 
 
 
 
 
 A 50-year-old woman was killed and her son injured when their bike was hit by a state-run bus under PGI police circle on Wednesday. Neither of them was wearing a helmet.
 
 According to the police, Kalawati of Utretia was on a bike being ridden by her son Raju (aged around 30) when a bus hit them from behind. Due to the heavy impact of the speeding bus, both fell from the bike and the bus rolled over the woman.
 
 The incident occurred around 1pm in front of South City police outpost. They were returing from Cantt.
 
 Passers-by and some police personnel present at the spot took her to a private hospital where she was declared brought  .
 
 SHO PGI RN Rai said a police team had tried to chase the bus but it sped away.
 
 “We are checking CCTV footage from the crossing to identify the bus,” said Rai.
 
 A case of negligent driving against unidentified persons has been registered, he added.
 
  
  
 
