PUNE: More than 150 passengers of a Kochi-bound   flight were left stranded at the   early on Friday after it was delayed by more than four hours.

 The flight (6E 338) from Pune to Kochi was supposed to take off at 2.45am, but it arrived around 6:15am, a passenger told TOI. An IndiGo spokesperson attributed the delay to severe weather condition in north India.
 
 Prashanth John, one of the passengers, said no ground staff member was around to update them about the situation. “The flight was supposed to leave at 2.45am but it was delayed indefinitely. The airline put the blame on air traffic at the Bengaluru airport, from where the flight was supposed to arrive. The flight finally departed at 6.15am,”   said.
 
 He said the passengers were not informed about the revised time of departure and the electronic information system only displayed ‘delayed’ status.
 
 Another passenger said it was a very long wait for him and his family. “We have a two-year-old child and decided to reach the airport early as the airport area and the roads remain jam-packed in the evening and in the late evening hours. We reached the airport around 11.30pm and completed the security check. For us, it was a wait for more than six hours. Also, with other flights delayed, the security hold area was overcrowded. Unable to tolerate the commotion, our child cried continuously. With little information coming in from the airline officials, it became all the more frustrating for us,” the passenger said.
 
 An IndiGo spokesperson said flight schedules across the 6E (IndiGo) network were affected on Thursday and early Friday because of the severe weather condition. “One of the flights, 6E-338 from Pune to Kochi, was also affected for the same reason. To minimize the customers’ inconvenience, the airline operated the flight on a delayed scheduled instead of cancelling it. The flight departed around 0600 hours. The staff members kept the customers posted about the situation and offered food and beverages. IndiGo regrets the inconvenience caused to customers,” the spokesperson told TOI.
 
 Several IndiGo flights scheduled in the early hours on Friday were delayed. An IndiGo flight to Chennai set to depart at 12.40am was delayed by almost two-and-a- half hours, while another flight of the airline to Bengaluru at 12.45am was delayed by almost four hours.
 
 Flights arriving in Pune were affected, too. As many as eight flights of different airlines were delayed between midnight and 3am.
 
 PARKING PROBLEM
 
 13 to 14 flights arrive and depart from the Pune airport between 12am and 3am
 
 If three to four flights get delayed, it results in a chaotic situation at the airport with the apron area being small 
 
 Delays cause flights not being able to find parking bays. There have been many instances when passengers have had to sit in an aircraft for 45 minutes to an hour after landing because of limited parking bays
 
 Space crunch
 
 * The terminal building and waiting areas get overcrowded because of unavailability of adequate seats
 
 * Though the airport officials have added new seats, complaints still persist
 
 
