Nagpur: “Doctors need to be more sensitive and be socially conscious to derive professional satisfaction,” said union minister Minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari at the inaugural ceremony of the 55th national annual conference of the Indian Academy of Pediatrics (IAP), Pedicon hosted by the IAP’s Nagpur chapter here on Thursday. Gadkari called upon the doctors to be tech-savvy as they need to pace-up with the developments in the field of medicine and face the tough competitive world where knowledge is wealth. He said that Indian doctors are preferred over other doctors in developed countries as they skilled and value ethics. Praising the worth of Indian doctors, Gadkari said, “In America, among every ten doctors, four are from India which keeps the profession of Indian doctors going even in developed countries.” Further, the minister stressed on the importance of need for staying with the research developments in medicine. He said that research holds the key to all kinds of developments in the world, and medicine was no exception. Doctors must also engage themselves in the research activities as it would keep them updated and yield positive results inturn. Talking about medical education, Gadkari said it was unfortunate that government couldn’t run medical education. But he proposed that besides private sector, the corporate sector too should be allowed to start hospitals. He said that there were 12 post medical colleges in the offing which will be run with 60% contribution by government and 40% through commercial enterprises. Earlier, the new IAP president Dr Santosh Soans, in his acceptance speech listed the projects and plans of the academy for the next year. Dr Anupam Sachdeva, the outgoing president said that IAP had developed norms for various paediatric diseases like pneumonia, typhoid, cord blood banking, sickle cell disease etc. He also talked about a new software that would help 27,000 paediatricians across country to have uniform record keeping and data generation. Dr Remesh Kumar, secretary general; Dr Uday Bodhankar, President COMAD and senior paediatrician, Dr Vasant Khalatkar; Dr Jayant Upadhye, Dr Rajiv Mohta and Dr Praveen Pagey also spoke on the occasion.