CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu Medical Council on Wednesday temporarily debarred three doctors from practice for misconduct, including attempt to murder and gross negligence that led to the death of medico following a hair transplant in a salon.

 The newly-elected members of the council headed by president   issued orders at their first meeting, suspending the doctors a year after they were found guilty. “It was long overdue. We could not initiate action against them as we did not have the quorum,” Dr Senthil said.
 
 In May 2016, a final-year student of the   died a day after undergoing a hair transplant procedure at a salon in Nungambakkam. The disciplinary committee meeting held a few weeks later found the doctors — Dr  , an MBBS degree holder who did the surgery, and anaesthetist Dr Arthur Vineeth Suryakumar — guilty of negligence.
 
 170-plus complaints made against doctors in Tamil Nadu
 
 Later in the same year, the Chennai police booked a woman doctor on an attempt to murder charge when she pulled off the tube that was supplying medicine to her 82-year-oldfather – a heart patient on medical support in the intensive care unit (ICU) of a hospital – after getting his thumb impression on a set of papers. The actwas caughton aCCTVcamera. The incident happened in September 2015, and the man died two months later. Though the man’s son, also a doctor, filed a complaint against his sister soon after the incident, an FIR was filed only in January 2016. Following this, thedisciplinary committee at the medical council recommended action against Coimbatore-based Dr   Manoharan. The council also issued a warning to her husband Dr   and son Dr Hari Prasad.
 
 
 On Wednesday, their names were removed from the medical register. According totheorder, Dr Jayasudha and Dr Vineeth Suryakumar cannot practise for a year, while Dr Hariprasad Kasturi isdebarredfor six months.
 
 
 The council has also resolved that the disciplinary committee can henceforth initiate action against violators after an investigation is conducted, like is followed in the Medical Council of India. “We decided nottowaitfor the concurrence of the entire council,” said another member, Dr R V Surendran. Marredby internal bickering and legal tangles, the council was in a limbo for more than one year.
 
 
 In the last few months, more than 170 complaints, including from the directorate of medical education (DME), have been made against doctors acrossthestatefor sex determination and sex-selective abortions and are now pending before the committee, he said.
 
