PUNE: The board of directors of the   will hear the appeals of the dismissed employees for three days from February 26, three days after its meeting slated on Friday.

 A source told TOI that the chances of reinstatement were grim for many dismissed employees — all daily wagers — and it could result in a standoff between the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal (PMPML) and the corporators of Pune as well as   municipal corporations. “The main charge against them is gross absenteeism. Former   chairman and managing director Tukaram Mundhe had taken the decision after reviewing their attendance. Reinstatement of most of them seems unlikely under the given circumstances. Excuses and counter-arguments of a handful may hold weight. We are giving all of them a fair chance,” said a PMPML official.
 
 He said a change was expected in the system of leaves, though. “Apart from the general and national holidays and day-offs, every employee gets only one day as a casual leave in a month. It was planned and implemented by Mundhe. We think it is unfair and so a thought is being given to change the system of the present casual leaves. A decision on it should come very soon,” the official added.
 
 The last board meeting of PMPML proposed the reinstatement of the 153 employees dismissed by Mundhe. Nayana Gunde, the new chairperson of PMPML, had said she would not act in a hurry and look into the matter case-wise.
 
 “If an employee is suspended or terminated, he or she can appeal against the decision. So, it has been decided that PMPML will listen to anything the terminated people have to say from February 26. A decision on whether some of the employees should be taken back or not will be taken by this month-end,” another PMPML official said.
 
 Seema Savale, one of the board members and a corporator, said, “We are just saying that proper procedures should be followed. The employees must get a chance to defend themselves properly. They just cannot be dismissed without a hearing in one go. We are demanding that proper notices should be served on them and there should be a trial process.” 
 
 
