BENGALURU: While political pros like octogenarian Kagodu Thimmappa, Congress candidate from Sagar and five-time MLA, remain indefatigable, first-timers in the ring are high on energy and out to give it their best shot.

 
 Sharath Bache Gowda, 35, took to electoral politics with ease as he had grown up seeing his father B N Bache Gowda leading the masses in Bengaluru’s hinterland. The youngster is now BJP candidate from Hoskote.
 
 “My father was a fiveterm MLA and minister for 10 years. I have seen politics throughout my life. So, when I was asked to be a candidate, I did not feel odd,” says Sharath, an engineer who went on to do his masters from the University of Michigan.
 
 Home minister R Ramalinga Reddy, who represented Jayanagar for four terms between 1989 and 2004, is a happy man with his daughter Soumya Reddy, 35, bidding to wrest the seat from BJP.
 
  
  
 
 
 Soumya, who has done her masters in environmental science at New York Institute of Technology, says her academic credentials would help her reclaim the glory of Jayanagar, once known as a well-developed layout and famous for its green and clean environment. Both Sharath and Soumya have placed jobs as their priority. They say they are aware of the real issues bothering the youth and would strive to cater to their needs.
 
 Congress has chosen to field student-leader HS Manjunatha from Mahalakshmi Layout. At 28, Manjunatha, the second youngest candidate this election season, says his presence in the fray is more than a novelty factor, and will benefit his party.
 
 Aswini S, 26, contesting on a BJP ticket from KGF, is the youngest in the fray. Aswini, daughter of former BJP MLA Y Sampangi, is facing another debutant, Rupa Shashidhar. Rupa, 38, is the daughter of former Union minister K H Muniyappa.
 
 In Mandya, the refusal of MH Ambareesh to contest for Congress paved the way for young journalist P Ravikumar Gowda to try his luck. He will take on JD(S) candidate M Srinivas.
 
 Darshan Puttannaiah, son of late farmer leader KS Puttannaiah, has entered the fray as a candidate of Swaraj India party from Melkote, the assembly seat in Mandya which his father held.
 
 
