Ludhiana: The state election commission has finally issued the schedule for Ludhiana  , which will take place on February 24, but for the results, candidates and parties will have to wait until February 27. The parties swung into action immediately after the announcement, and now all eyes are on the announcement of candidates through parties. However, the election code of conduct was imposed on Thursday with immediate effect.

 The nomination process will start from February 8, and continue until February 13, but on February 10 and 11, there will be no nominations because of government holidays. The scrutiny of the nominations will take place on February 15, because February 14 is again a public holiday. The candidates will be able to roll back their nominations by February 16, and they will be allocated election symbols the same day. The election commission has asked MC to issue ‘no objection certificates’ to candidates in time, so that they file their nominations.
 
 Meanwhile, parties have swung into action for increasing the pace of selecting candidates, so that they match with the election schedule. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) district president Ravinder Arora said they were conducting their core committee meetings for finalizing candidates, and by the weekend, the interview process would also be completed. He said they would announce their candidates most probably by February 5 and 6.
 
 Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) district president Ranjit Dhillon said they were ready with the list of candidates, and as soon as they get approval from the party high command, they would announce their candidates. Dhillon said they were ready for elections. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) district president Daljit Grewal said most of their candidates were already decided, and in a day or so, all will be announced. Regarding poll results, he said counting should have been done on the same day, as they would now have to wait for three days for election results.
 
 Meanwhile, Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLA Simarjit Bains said now that the election commission had issued the poll schedule, they would also issue the list of their candidates. He said they were ready for elections. Congress MLA Bharat Bhushan Ashu said the process to finalize candidates was already going on, and the first list of candidates would be issued most probably by February 5, and the final list would come by February 8. He said there would be fair and transparent elections in the city. 
 
 IMPORTANT DAYS
 
 Nominations begin: February 8
 
 Nominations end: February 13
 
 Scrutiny of documents: February 15
 
 Withdrawal of nominations: February 16
 
 Election date: February 24
 
 Results: February 27
 
 SOME FACTS 
 
 Total wards: 95
 
 Total voters: 10.50 lakh 
 
 Male voters: 5.67 lakh 
 
 Female voters: 4.82 lakh
 
 Third gender voters: 23
 
 
