In the latest episode of  , Virat accuses Deep of going against the family when Tara (Arohi) brings Niku. Virat tells Roma that Deep hadn't killed Niku and was holding Arohi in confinement. Roma asks Deep why he saved Niku. Deep tells them that he was using him as a ploy against Arohi and asks Tara to explain it to them.

 When Roma asks her, Tara tells them that she got to know about Niku only a few days ago. She tells them that Niku should be with them all the time so that they could keep a watchful eye on him. Roma is upset with Deep for not telling her the truth and says she no longer trusts him. Deep wonders why Tara did not tell them the entire truth.
 
 Roma says that she will deal with Niku's case herself and goes. Tara takes Niku with her to the room and prays for his safety. Deep comes in and confronts her. Tara says that she did so for their own safety. Deep walks off.
 
 Prithvi comes in and steals information from Tara's phone. Virat tells Roma that Tara tried to harm Prithvi but she doesn't believe him.
 
 Deep and Tara come to the hall. The former tells her that he didn't kill Niku because of some reason. Arohi hears him and learns that Niku's mother was on the run. After hearing everything, Roma forgives Deep and tells Virat to forget the past. They all hug.
 
 Arohi asks God for forgiveness. She is then about to go somewhere when Roma stops her. Roma shows her a doll from her childhood days and says that Tara has changed for good ever since she discovered the news of her pregnancy.
 
 Virat and Prithvi see a video on the phone related to Tara. They get confused. Arohi goes and meets Chawani and tells him about rescuing Niku. Chawani asks her not to take such a big risk, leaving Niku alone.
 
 When Niku is sleeping in the room, Roma comes in and wakes him up. Tara tells Chawani about her plans. She then calls Roma and tells her that Arohi was planning to kill her. She asks for help and tells them to come to a specific location.
 
 Deep arrives. Tara tells that Arohi was there and she had kept her in a room. Arohi dreams about killing Deep but when she sees Roma and Prithvi there, she aborts her plans. Roma brings Niku with her. Tara tells them that Arohi had run away.
 
 Once they are home, Roma makes the big announcement. She tells them that Tara is experiencing a bad time in her life and Panditji has suggested a remedy for it. Roma asks them to get married once again, completing all the rituals this time to ward off negativity from their life.
 
