NEW DELHI: Lane after lane shows off brightly painted huts of all shapes and size. The orange gives way to shocking red which merges with the lilac. An eye-catching royal blue imbues a broken wooden door with a mysterious sense of life. Smudged white fills up the worn-out planks of the door to create a design that defies decay. If you hadn’t only minutes earlier hopped over fly-infested drains and negotiated pockmarked paths, you would think you were looking at a modern art installation. But this is  , a slum lying hidden behind Chanakyapuri’s tony environs.

 
  
  
 
 From the tree-lined avenues of Moti Bagh, Sanjay Camp looks like any other disadvantaged area. But within the urban underbelly where 2,200 families live, there is now a colourful world of street art. From flowers and animals to   figures and expressions of empowerment and education, the walls of Sanjay Camp are symbols of brave dignity. Residents emerge from the shanties to boast about their houses. A shy Anita gestures at her house and says, “Log kehtey hain tumhara ghar sabsey sundar hai.”
 
 A short distance away a woman looks at the painting on her walls as she collects water from a pipeline. The artwork portrays the thought provoking words of a woman: “Jism khareed saktey ho, lekin rooh nahin (You can buy a body, but not the soul).”
 
 This colour   happened on March 17 and 18, when over 400 young people of Delhi University — current and former students, many associated with the art and social service societies of the university colleges — converged on the slum to give new colour to life in Sanjay Camp. This coming together was steered by P M Shivani and Isham Sethi, both graduates of Sri Venkateswara College, who formed Button Mushrooms to put art on the pedestal it deserves while contributing their bit to the society. They called this project to paint the 700 brick-and-metal sheet houses “Kachi Gali...rang desh ke” and managed to get the   sponsored by a paint manufacturing company.
 
 “Initially when we told the residents that we would paint their houses, they laughed at us,” Shivani told TOI. “When we reached the place with the paints, people did not step forward to help. But when we started painting their houses, they were delighted to see the results and made space for our artists to work with ease.” This fulfilling experience has made Shivani hopeful of being able to mobilise support for more such activities.
 
 Sanjay camp is not the sole example of street art. In another slum in Okhla, which also goes by the name of Sanjay Camp, students from various colleges are using street art in bright shades to give the undistinguished brick structures a new sheen while simultaneously creating awareness about cleanliness. A group of 18, led by  , a student of Vivekanand Institute of Professional Studies, has taken up the work under the banner of Navaagat (new era), which the students have established to take up social causes.
 
 When TOI visited the slum, the baby steps that these youngsters were taking had already begun to show results. A small open area where students usually gather to study now has wall paintings surrounding it.   students worked on the flawless graffiti and students from   helped raise the required funds. Jain disclosed that they also managed to raise additional funds for the colours through crowd funding.
 
 Navaagat, with the help of community members, has managed to give the nearly 200 houses there a new coat of colour, and in the process the message of a clean neighbourhood has gone out far and wide. A sense of pride is evident as housewife Shamim show off the art on her walls.
 
 There was another fallout of the newly inspiring atmosphere in Okhla’s Sanjay Camp. “After the graffiti came up on the walls, some men who had ever proved a public nuisance because they indulged in open gambling were evicted by the community. Obviously the people now feel a sense of responsibility towards their locality,” said Jain.
 
 
