NEW DELHI:   on Thursday took out a massive rally at Ghanta Ghar in Chandni Chowk demanding an ordinance by the Centre to stop the ongoing   drive being conducted on the directions of the SC-appointed monitoring committee. The protesters also asked the Delhi government to desist from blame game, convene a one-day special assembly session and pass a Bill to stop sealing.

  (CAIT) general secretary Praveen Khandelwal said that the government should immediately began preparations for Master Plan 2021-2041. It should constitute a working group under the LG’s chairmanship comprising trade representatives, senior officials, town planners, architects and other experts.
 
 “The sealing drive is being conducted in an arbitrary manner depriving traders of their democratic rights. We want the rule of law to be restored in Delhi by complying with MCD Act, 1957,” said Khandelwal.
 
 He added that the apex court has observed that the mess in Delhi happened with connivance of one and all, so why are only traders being targeted. “Why is the monitoring committee not recommending any action the officials and others under whose tenure the mess happened? The courts do not punish the accused in the first hearing and give ample opportunity to place their defence. The monitoring committee hasn’t given anyone an opportunity to place their defence while conducting the sealing drive,” Khandelwal said.
 
 Both Delhi and central governments should wake up from slumber and understand the implications of sealing and its impact on economy and trade in the city, the traders said.
 
 Meanwhile, north corporation sealed 49 units against misuse of property and unauthorised construction on Thursday. “The building department carried out sealing in five zones and 49 units were sealed for flouting the norms. Three units were sealed in Kishanganj, while three basements at   and six stilt at Rajender Nagar were shut down. The sealing drive was carried out in Ashok Vihar, Civil Lines, Hudson Lines, Paschim Vihar and Rohini Sector 8,” said a senior north corporation official.
 
  (SDMC) sealed 31 properties for misuse and non-payment of conversion charges. 
 
 
