PUNE: A 37-year-old man from   sent the   on a futile chase into after he complained that he was beaten up and robbed of Rs 1 lakh by three “men in khaki,” who were travelling in a car with a beacon, at the  .

 Considering the seriousness of the complaint, a team from the   police visited the “incident spot.” The probe, however, revealed that the complainant had cooked up a false story to get back at the three officials of   (RTO), as one of them had slapped him for riding his motorcycle in an inebriated condition and almost causing a near-fatal mishap.
 
 
 Ganesh Lokare, the assistant inspector of Vadgaon Maval police, said, “We will file two cases against the man — one for drunk driving and another for filing a false complaint.”
 
 The incident took place on Wednesday night when the man went to the Talegaon Dabhade police and lodged a complaint stating that around 9.30 pm, three men, wearing khaki uniforms and travelling in a car with a beacon, stopped him at the Talegaon-Chakan chowk. He claimed the three men beat him up and robbed him of Rs1lakh.
 
 The complaint was then transferred to the Vadgaon Maval police. Lokare and his team visited the spot at night and came to know that an RTO vehicle was there at 9.30pm. “We found the names of the RTO officials who were on duty there. We asked the RTO officials and the complainant to come to the police station on Thursday,” Lokare said.
 
 Lokare said the real chain of events soon came to light. “The RTO officials told us that the man was riding his motorcycle in an inebriated condition. At Talegaon-Chakan chowk, he overtook a truck recklessly. The truck driver had to apply sudden brakes and that caused damage to the heavy vehicle.” The RTO officers’ vehicle was right behind the truck and they had seen how the truck driver averted an accident. When the officers found that the man on the motorcycle was drunk, one of them slapped him. They did not allow him to ride the motorcycle. Instead, they called his relatives and sent him home with them, Lokare said.
 
 When confronted, the complainant admitted to his wrongdoings.
 
 “The man told us that he was upset after being slapped. In a fit of rage he cooked up the story and lodged a complaint,” Lokare said.
 
