Bathinda: The supporters of Punjabi language in Pakistani Punjab, raised their voice for promotion of the language on the occasion of ‘International Mother Tongue Day’ on Wednesday. Many programmes were organized at various places where lovers of the language rued that Punjabi was getting a raw deal.

 Protests and rallies were organized at Lahore, Faislabad and Sahiwal in Pakistan where hundreds of people gathered to demand that Punjabi language be given its due by making it a medium of instruction in schools and colleges.
 
 Two writ petitions are pending in the Lahore high court for making Punjabi as medium of instruction and declaring it as compulsory subject up to post graduation level in Pakistan Punjab.
 
 Punjabi is not the medium of instruction in schools from primary classes to matriculation in Pakistan Punjab despite it being spoken by 44% of the population. It is taught only as elective subject in intermediate, graduation and post-graduation level. Punjabi is written in Shahmukhi (Persian) script in Pakistan whereas in India it is written in Gurmukhi.
 
 ​Punjabi Parchar, an organisation for promotion of Punjabi in Pakistan, held a rally at Lahore with support from various other cultural outfits like Punjabi Abdi board, Punjabi Khojgarh and Institute for Peace and Secular Studies (IPSS). Punjabi Parchar president Ahmad Raza said all provinces of Pakistan provide right of education in their respective mother tongues but in Punjab such a right was denied by the government which was injustice with a vast population which had Punjabi as its mother language.
 
 IPSS director Diep Saeeda said, “Baluchi, Sindhi and Pashto are being taught in other three provinces of Pakistan but only Punjabi is being neglected. We are fighting against this sheer discrimination with Punjabi for over four years now but the government remains unmoved.”
 
 Punjab Lok Sujag,​ with civil society groups, observed the day with a cultural rally in Sahiwal town of Punjab. It held weeklong programmes for promotion of Punjabi language, art and indigenous culture.
 
 ​Shafiq Butt, executive member, Punjab Lok Sujag said Comsats University, Government Postgraduate College, Sahiwal Chamber of Commerce and Industry held a rally on the mother tongue day. Jhoomer teams from Ravi belt led the rally with their traditional dance.
 
 Ishtiaq Ahmed, professor emeritus, Stockholm University, Sweden read a paper on ‘Partition of Punjab.’ “Mothers should take pride in speaking Punjabi to show it is not language of ‘illiterate’ or ‘lower class people’ as projected,” said women Asifa Asif and Farzana Naseem.
 
 
