Malayalam serials have been ruling the prime time of our telly world for long. Soap story tellers have been banking on the mega serial mania for a while, but the latest fad among them seems to be crossing the 1000 episode mark. 
  and 
  are some of the popular serials that belong to the  . But what’s with this fixation of stretching it beyond the 1 k point? We quiz the stars and makers behind the scenes.

 
 
 
 Our serial, Parasparam, is nearing 1500 episodes and has been the numero uno since the beginning. I believe the continuing good reviews is what that led to the serial’s prolonged survival. It’s the viewership that lets a serial run smooth for such long durations. But personally, I am against the 1000 plus episode format. As actors, this disrupts the flow of the character, and our attachment to it diminishes over time. So, I think it’s better if Malayalam serials stick to mini formats.
 
 
 
 Within 300 episodes, a serial can decently narrate a story. However, the production cost of serials is high. Makers reap profit only once it crosses at least 50 episodes. We can see that in none of our languages, TV serials are run in the mini formats. In fact, whenever a sequence or segment in the soap garners good feedback, we are sometimes forced to include such scenes again. It’s the channels that should come forward with the policy of wrapping up a serial within 30 or 50 episodes, like in Doordarshan.
 
 
 
 Being part of such serials is a matter of pride for me. It is good to have 1k episodes, provided the storylines are interesting and the continuity does not induce boredom. The extended episodes give me space to experiment and perform better and even the audience remember us for longer periods.
 
 
 
 
 We started Karuthamuthu narrating the story of a single generation, but the increased acceptability has stretched it to a tale of three generations. The character of Balamol, who started as that of a little girl, has grown up to be a mother now, which proves it. Despite crossing  , Karuthamuthu is still loved and that’s why we are introducing new incidents and events in the character’s lives. If the TRP ratings were poor, the serial might have gone off air, but we won’t stretch it beyond 1500 episodes.
 
 
