Nagpur: Can   of the game be changed once it has started or is over? Going by the Nagpur University ( ) way, the answer is ‘Yes’, though the courts have ruled against it.

 In the last one year, the NU has twice changed rules after conducting an exam. Of late, it has changed the   entrance test (PET) passing criteria following abysmal results of the first paper.
 
 The move has also brought to fore NU’s disregard for government resolutions and UGC norms for according relaxation to reserved category students while preparing the new direction.
 
 Last year, the Bachelor of Arts (BA) direction was changed after holding the second semester exam. In a series of reports, TOI had highlighted how Direction No. 12, which governed the conduct of examination for BA (semester pattern), was amended to implement combined passing scheme in view of poor summer exam result.
 
 The PET-I was held on January 12 and the result was published on January 23.
 
 On January 22, the NU issued a notification stating that 5% relaxation in pass percentage has been given for reserved category.
 
 Only 280   out of the 2,041 cleared the exam. The numbers have drastically slipped from nearly 700 in 2014. Staring at poor PhD registrations, the NU amended the passing score to 45% for reserved category students who are also eligible for PET-II. 
 
 As per the new direction, the sole criteria to qualify for PET-II was 50% score in PET-I, without any relaxation.
 
 In 2014, out of 3,962 appearing candidates 692 had passed. The number of passing candidates was nearly same in the following year when 3,224 appeared and 647 cleared PET-I. In 2016, out of the 3,771 aspirants, 370 cleared the exam. This time, 2,041 candidates had appeared for the PET-I, but only 280 cleared.
 
 Vice-chancellor SP Kane said it was presumed that 5% relaxation is given to reserved category. “Some people thought that since there is no mention of passing criteria for reserved category, the clarification was issued,” Kane said.
 
 Pro-VC Pramod Yeole, who is chairman of the Research and Recognition Committee (RRC), didn’t answer TOI’s calls. Yeole had earlier said that “the PhD direction was perfect”.
 
 In August last year, the Delhi High Court, in Paramjit Singh versus Indian Oil Corporation Ltd case, had ruled that the rules of the game cannot be changed after the game is over”.
 
 Since Oct 2017, TOI has also highlighted the concerns raised by guides, aspirants as well as NU officials over the new direction which according them ‘discouraged research’.
 
 
