NAGPUR: Other than stray incidents like a student fainting while writing the exam, and some reporting at centres without   card and not being allowed to enter, the MH-CET 2018 was conducted smoothly at several educational institutes by the regional directorate of technical education on Thursday.

 The student who fainted at Railway Men’s High School, Ajni, had to be shifted to a hospital in Ramdaspeth, and was reported to have suffered due to dehydration from the extreme heat. He couldn’t come back and missed the exam. At Hislop College, officials refused entry to a student, who later got his Aadhaar card from home and appeared for the exam, though joint director Gulabrao Thakre said it was one of the ID proof to be carried along.
 
 Elsewhere, no major problems were reported in conduct of the entrance exam, which has been termed as the easiest CET so far.
 
 Thakre said some minor issues may have cropped up for students without a valid hall ticket or ID proof, but those were settled as per guidelines. “95% attendance was registered with 48,372 appearing in Nagpur region. No complaint was reported by our District liasoning officers (DLO) and Dy DLO or Observers,” he said.
 
 In the morning, students appeared stressed but they were quite relaxed in subsequent shifts, after finding the paper easy. A lot of students said they had been preparing for JEE (Advanced) and NEET, and in comparison to that, the CET, being held for admissions to engineering, pharmacy and BSc Agriculture courses, was easy.
 
 However, at some centres, students felt the exam was difficult. At these centres, students were uncomfortable due to the heat and arrangements were average.
 
 Saurabh Choudhari, a student, said the difficulty level was moderate and almost similar to other exams. “Biology section was easier than the others,” he said
 
 Another student, Shashank Wankhede, said the paper was not on par with the JEE papers. “The questions in chemistry and physics were elementary as it didn’t require much calculation. But the time allotted for Maths was not sufficient in spite of it being the arduous one,” he said.
 
 Shreyas Mahiskar said the exam was overall easy. “Biology section was easier than the other parts. Physics part one was more difficult,” he said.
 
 
