CHENNAI: The   government took the easy way out to contain the   turmoil by ordering permanent closure and sealing of the  . However, for the 1,100 direct employees and about 3,000 contract labourers, this is the beginning of a troubled phase in their lives. 

 Soon after the May 22 violent protests and attack on the company's housing colony located just behind the Tuticorin collectorate, the families there were moved out of the town. For the company, the safety of its employees mattered and it acted swiftly. With growing animosity, which some employees say was building up over the past year, even those living in their own houses vacated the town soon after the incident and have either gone back to their native places or are staying with relatives.
 
 Of the 1,100 direct employees, 500 - 600 were staying in various parts of the town in their own houses. "There is uncertainty now and no one knows whether the plant will reopen or not. For most employees, it was a well-paying job. As they felt settled, many of them had taken loans for houses and vehicles and have other commitments. Now there is a question mark over everything," says an executive.
 
 The company credited the salary for May to the direct employees on Friday. 
 
 "Despite the turmoil, at least we have something on hand to lead our lives for the next few weeks. But the contract labourers may get their pay only later," pointed out another executive. "Most of those contract workers were earning about 20,000 per month. Their future looks bleak; if they look for alternative employment they may at the most get 10,000. Sterlite was paying well," he added. 
 
 Schooling is another major concern. Several schools in Tuticorin reopened on Friday for the new academic year and private schools are set to open on Monday. "The management has written to schools seeking special permission for payment of school fees later and permitting children to attend school after a fortnight or a month. But with uncertainty prevailing over restarting the plant, families are in a dilemma whether to continue their children's education in this town or elsewhere," said another employee.
 
 "The trauma the family members, especially children, went through during the May 22 attack on the township has left a deep scar in the minds of the children. They are scared to go back," said another employee, adding that even the minds of their children's classmates have been poisoned in recent days. "Today, one of our employees who chose to stay back in the town was attacked near his house. He has a leg injury, but his family is scared and preferred not to file a police complaint," said an executive.
 
 
