PUNE: The city crime branch on Monday arrested a man while claiming to have solved the mystery behind the murder of a woman, whose partially burnt body was found on the forest land near Patil Vasti in Lohegaon on Friday last. 

 The case was cracked after the police established the woman’s identity with the help of her social media account. Police said the victim, Aayodhya Sudam Vaidya (25), was in a relationship with Balaji, alias Guruji Vaijnath Dhaktode (27). He is married and has two children. 
 
 Vaidya was pursuing Dhaktode for marrying her and this led to her murder, the police said. A resident of Chakrapani Vasahat in Bhosari, Vaidya was working with a plastic manufacturing unit in Bhosari. Dhaktode, who stays in Vishrantwadi, was working with a saloon, the police added. The two had met at the saloon where the woman had come for a haircut. 
 
 A police team, headed by assistant commissioner of police (crime) Bhanupratap Barge, arrested Dhaktode and booked his accomplice in the case. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Pankaj Dahane said “The police found some tattoos on the woman’s hand while inspecting her partially charred body. After cleaning the tattooed portion, the police found a name, ‘Aayodhya’. They searched the name on a social media site and established her identity.” 
 
 The police said Vaidya was originally from Ahmednagar and had shifted to Pune about three years ago. “She was married twice and had divorced both the men,” Dahane said. The police checked her cellphone call detail and found a man was in constant touch with her even on Thursday and Friday.
 
 Barge said, “We visited his house at   in Vishrantwadi. His wife told us that he had left home on Thursday for work but did not return home.” 
 
 A police team visited his native place at Ambajogai in Beed district and also  , but in vain. On Monday, the got information that Dhaktode would visit his Vishrantwadi residence. They laid a trap and arrested him. 
 
 Dhaktode had taken help of his friend, who regularly visited his saloon and had been arrested in six serious offences in the past, to commit the crime. “Both took Vaidya to Lohegaon and stabbed her to death with the help of a knife. The woman died on the spot. The two used petrol to set the body ablaze to destroy the evidence,” Barge said.
 
 
