ISLAMABAD: Days after the US suspended more than $1 billion in security assistance to  , Islamabad said on Saturday that those providing funds to banned groups, including the so-called charities run by Mumbai attack mastermind  , will face up to 10 years in prison along with a hefty fine. Their properties can also be confiscated, it said.

 On Thursday, the US had said that the assistance would be resumed only after Pakistan took “decisive action” against terror groups it had long nurtured and harboured. Earlier on January 1, President Trump had tweeted, “The US has foolishly given Pakistan more than 33 billion dollars in aid... and they have given us nothing but lies and deceit... No more!”
 
 In what is being seen as a reaction to the US action, Pakistan on Saturday took out ads in newspapers across the country listing 72 groups, including Jamat-ud-Dawa, Falah-e-Insaniyat Foundation and Lashkar-e-Taiba of Saeed and Jaish-e-Muhammed of Masood Azhar, banning aid to them.
 
 It said that according to Anti-Terrorism Act of 1997 of Pakistan and under   act of 1948 it was a crime to provide funding to those groups which have been banned or are on the watchlist.
 
 Those giving funds to such individuals or groups may face “five to 10 years in jail or up to Rs 10 million fine or both”, it said.
 
 Their movable or immovable property can also be confiscated. Pakistan has banned Hafiz Saeed-led Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD) and Falah-e-Insaniat Foundation (FIF) from collecting donations on Monday, after US President   accused Islamabad of giving nothing to the US but “lies and deceit” and providing “safe haven” to terrorists.
 
 Trump, in a scathing tweet, at the start of the new year said that Pakistan fooled American authorities and got$33 billion in the name of fighting terrorism.
 
 The government has bannedcompanies and individuals from making donations to the JuD, the FIF and other organisations on the UNSC sanctions list.
 
 The advertisement reminds the people that they should make sure that their money given as charity does not end up in wrong hands.
 
 The move comes after the US increased pressure on Pakistan to move decisively against all militants groups allegedly operating from its soil.
 
 
