HYDERABAD: Seven fatal accidents on   (ORR) this year till February, reinforces the death-trap tag on the eight-lane expressway. There’s nobooby trap here, the speed demons are the killers.

 Data provided by the traffic police department, however, doesn’t include the most-recent accident on Wednesday when a couple was killed after their speeding car rammed into a lorry near  .
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Since 2016, more than 250 accidents have taken place on the deadly Outer Ring Road, in which 116 people have lost their lives and 233 people suffered injuries.
 
 The latest statistics on the part of ORR that falls under Cyberabad limits shows that four out of nine accidents have resulted in fatalities, while in   limits, three out of six road accidents have resulted in fatalities.
 
 Road safety experts blame the high number of fatalities on high-speed crashes. They say overspeeding and rash and negligent driving continue to be the top two causes of road accidents on the expressway.
 
 “Speed control is one of the top concerns on the Outer Ring Road, which is an expressway, and on the highways cutting through Rachakonda area. On these stretches, wearing a seat belt is extremely important and we are currently trying to step up awareness regarding it,” said K  , DCP (traffic) Rachakonda.
 
 Accident data collected over the past year shows that Ghatkesar, Rajendranagar, Taramatipet, Gachibowli-Shamshabad, Pedda Amberpet toll plaza, Shankarpally, Narsingi and Keesara are the most accident-prone locations on the ORR.
 
 In most of the accidents in these ‘danger zones’, the driver lost control of the vehicle due to speeding. “There is no clarity on the permitted speed limit on the ORR since it differs from one lane to the other. Vehicles travelling at high speeds often flip or in some cases topple over to the other side of the road, due to the impact of the crash,” said Vinod K  , CEO of the Indian Federation of Road Safety (IFROS). Speaking about ways to curb overspeeding, he said, “More laser guns must be procured and installed along the ORR.”
 
 Kanumala also said that in many cases, cars have rammed into trucks and lorries parked on the side of the ORR. This, despite a ban on halting on the expressway. He said another major cause of concern is the high number of pedestrian deaths that occur on the ORR despite the ban on entry of pedestrians. There have been fatal accidents involving two wheelers again these vehicles have been barred on this stretch.
 
