GHAZIABAD: The Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation has given its in-principle nod to hand over a total of 97,574 sqm land to the NCR Transport Corporation for development of a   corridor through the city. The decision was taken at the the annual   meeting of the board of the municipal corporation on Saturday.

 The transport corporation had demanded the land from the district administration in October 2017 for constructing the Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) which will connect Delhi with Meerut via Ghaziabad. The portion of the proposed corridor in Ghaziabad would enter the city at Sahibabad and travel along GT Road till   T-point from where it will proceed along Duhai in Muradnagar en route Meerut.
 
 
  
 The land that will be handed over to the transport corporation comprises a permanent category measuring 15,470 sqm and a temporary category measuring 82,104 sqm. “The entire land that will be handed over for the rail transit system are earmarked for public use. Most of it is along green belts. Land categorized as permanent will be used for construction of stations of the RRTS corridor. Those categorized as temporary will be used for construction of pillars for this corridor. The temporary category of land will be handed back to the municipal corporation after development,” said municipal commissioner  .
 
 The corporation also approved a proposal to hand over 1,600 sqm of land to the home department in Sihani-Nandgram area for construction of a new police station on the sidelines of the board meeting held to decide on the budget for the financial year 2018-19.
 
 Infrastructure development got the lion’s share in the budget for the current financial year with a total of Rs 173.16 crore allocated under the head. Nearly Rs 94 crore from this amount has been allocated for construction, repair and maintenance of road networks within the city. The board has further allocated Rs 12.67 crore for street lights and Rs 26.54 crore for horticulture. Water supply and sewer expenses, which are covered under the waterworks department, has been allocated a sum of Rs 77.85 crore. The civic body has allocated a total of Rs 773.65 crore to be spent in the financial year.
 
 During the budget meeting, the house was informed that a GPS survey is being conducted in the district under strict the vigil of officials in order to identify the exact number of dwelling units so that revenues in terms of house taxes can be increased. “Owners of dwelling units in several residential areas have changed over the years. Single-storied dwelling units have given way to houses of three or four floors. However, house taxes for these units have remained constant over the years resulting in revenue loss for the corporation,” councillor SK Maheshwari told the house.
 
 
