MUMBAI: Those who destroy public property during protests should be made to pay damages along with organizers and office-bearers of the organization that held the agitation, observed the  . A division bench of Justices Satyaranjan Dharmadhikari and   was hearing a petition by  , who was ordered to pay damages in the 2012   riot case. 

 "We are of the firm opinion that if those causing destruction and damage to public property in the garb of holding peaceful agitation...have to be proceeded against for civil wrongs together with criminal prosecution, then, the law postulates a recovery...of monetary sums," said the bench. 
 
 The HC judges said the damage should be assessed and the amount recovered so that "the state sends a strong message to these wrongdoers and to those who claim that they have organized these agitations peacefully. Together with the organizers, their office-bearers and members of the public indulging in riotous behaviour causing destruction... and damaging public property should be visited with severe consequences". 
 
 The Azad Maidan riot took place in the course of a rally on August 11, 2012, called to protest against the attacks on Muslims in Assam and  . The violent protests led to the death of two people and injuries to 52 others, including police officers. 
 
 In the case heard by the HC, Noori was ordered to pay damages for participating in the protest. His lawyers contended that he had neither organized the protests, nor was he one of the 77 people who had initially been booked by the police. The state did not file any affidavit in the case and left it to the court to decide the matter. The HC held that the "principles of natural justice" had not been followed and quashed the demand notice issued against Noori. The court, however, added that it did not want to "allow the acts of the wrongdoers to go unpunished". The bench then directed the collector to take a fresh decision in the case after considering the affidavit filed by Noori.
 
 
 
