PANAJI: Mormugao Port Trust’s (MPT) proposed expansion in Vasco continues to run into rough weather, with   (GSPCB) taking a decision to cancel the already-delayed public hearing for MPT’s proposed passenger jetty and petroleum handling berth. The public hearing, which was slated for April 25, has been called off because   submitted an incomplete Environmental Impact Assessment report, said   officials.

 
  
 
 As per norms, GSPCB had called for a public hearing at Tilak Maidan, Vasco, over MPT’s proposal to develop a fishing jetty, passenger jetty, multipurpose general cargo berths, and petroleum, oil and lubricant (POL) terminals, a part of the public sector berth’s moves to diversify its operations and find alternate sources of revenue.
 
 GSPCB sources said that MPT had failed to attach vital annexures that were part of the Environmental Impact Assessment report. The   report also did not have page numbers and this could have led to objections from citizens and activists during the public hearing, said a GSPCB official.
 
 “A meeting was held on March 28 where we informed the   collector about the discrepancies after which the public hearing was cancelled,” a source said. “A letter has been sent to MPT asking for the stipulated documents.”
 
 MPT chairman I Jeyakumar had earlier said that the POL berth, along with a fishing jetty and passenger launch jetty, would benefit Vasco residents as they would act as catalysts for business activity.
 
 MPT used to handle liquid cargo at berth numbers 8 and 10. As per MPT’s traffic projections, liquid cargo is set to see a growth of more than 2 million tonnes by 2029-30, and is poised to improve to the level of 3.6 million tonnes by the end of 2040-41.
 
 MPT submitted the port expansion proposal, including the plans for the fishing jetty along with environmental impact assessment (EIA) reports, to GSPCB in early October 2017. The GSPCB reportedly kept the file pending for three months.
 
 As per regulations, GSPCB has to send the project proposal and the EIA to the collector within seven days and notify a public hearing. “As long as we don’t get the required documents, we cannot go ahead with the public hearing,” a GSPCB official said.
 
 In April 2017, GSPCB had held a public hearing to hear objections and suggestions on MPT’s proposal to increase the terminal capacity at berth 5A and 6A. Citizens and activists had vociferously protested the plans and had demanded that capital dredging for capesize vessels be stopped. Activists had also objected to the redevelopment of berth 8 and 9 by MPT.
 
