KOCHI: The department of general education has sent a letter to the director of public information (DPI), directing the latter to shut down the Peace International School, which was caught in controversy.

 The directive was issued since the department found that it was necessary to “prevent Muslims from joining IS activities.”
 
 The educational institution, with classes up to middle-school, grabbed the government’s attention after the district educational officer complained against the school for teaching objectionable content.
 
 The letter said preliminary inquiries revealed that the textbooks being used at schools were “aimed towards the propagation of ideas contradicting the secular policies of the country.”
 
 Ernakulam's Peace International School’s primary class students were taught lines like, “He (Allah) is not one of a group of gods and goddesses who fall in love, marry and plot against each other or put silly curses on humans.”
 
 The controversial books, highlighted the benefits of being a Muslim. The books said “how we (Muslims) should never give up in any matter,” stating that Allah is one and unique and there can't be any comparison in this case. The children’s book even says that “all other faiths violate this simple command, either explicitly or implicitly.”
 
 The letter said the government had not issued an NoC to the school and it has no CBSE affiliation. The DPI has been requested to take immediate action under the RTE Act to close Peace International School, Kochi, and transfer the students to nearby schools.
 
 “In order to prevent the Muslims from joining IS activities, it is highly necessary to stop the operation of such institutions,” said the letter from A  , secretary, department of general education.
 
 The police probing the case had searched Peace International Schools at   near North Paravoor and Chakkaraparambu near Vennala and seized textbooks.
 
 Among the seized books there were those which referred to other religions.
 
 “A lot of people worship objects that can neither harm them nor bring any good,” an activity for the students was titled in the book.
 
 A case was registered against the management committee of the educational foundation in October 2016.
 
 Meanwhile, Peace International School’s PTA president, A Sajimon said that they have not yet received information regarding the school’s closure.
 
 Assistant police commissioner K Laljy, investigating the case, said that probe was progressing. “The director of the foundation is still abroad. We are trying to get him back. The school in Kochi city has been dysfunctional for a while and didn’t function during this academic year,” the ACP said.
 
 
