In the latest episode of  , Aryan ( Shubham) asks for Kartik and Naira's help in getting ready as Suhana's mother is coming to meet them.

 
 Manish is against meeting Suhana's parents as he feels the family is rushing into the match but Dadi tells him not to think about it too much. Manish says they should inquire about Suhana's background and her family before taking things further.
 
 Aryan gets ready. As he comes down, the lights start to flicker which Dadi feels is a bad omen. Suhana also arrives with her mother and brother, who come carrying gifts for the family.
 
 Savita, posing as Suhana's mother behaves just like Aryan's Dadi. She brags about being rich in front of the Goenkas. She presents the idol as a gift to the family. Seeing the same idol, everyone is shocked.
 
 Naira says that their idol, which got stolen, looked just the same. Savita says that there is no need to accuse her and says she can show a receipt for the same. Naira apologises. Dadi asks her to keep the idol in the temple. As Naira goes, she doubts Suhana and her family.
 
 Savita says that they are okay with Aryan and Suhana's match. They hand over shagun and leave, asking the Goenkas to take their decision soon. Rahul says that they will be waiting for their call.
 
 As they leave, Suwarna hands over her gold bangles to Suhana, which nobody expected. Manish gets angry and asks her what is the need to rush into it. He asks her to not take a haste decision just for her son’s benefit.
 
 Meanwhile, Kartik asks Naira to relax and suggests a few exercises as the doctor had suggested. Manish talks to them about Aryan and feels that they should get to know the family better before thinking of an alliance. Kartik says that he will take care of the matter and also talk to Suwarna regarding the same. Naira nods and says yes.
 
 After Manish leaves, Kartik and Naira talk about the match. Naira says that she had a bad feeling about the matter but doesn't know what to do about it.
 
 Kartik says that he felt the same and because of the idol, he felt even more suspicious. Naira thinks about what Dadi and Manish talked about the day before when the idol got stolen and decide to check the idol so as to clear her doubts.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
