NEW DELHI: The   party's   appears to have had a whale of a time ridiculing a Rajasthan   lawmaker's claim that the law of gravity was discovered by a 7th century Indian astronomer, Brahmagupta the second, a 1,000 years before Issac  .

 
 With tongue firmly in cheek, Tewari tweeted bright and early today that the BJP MLA Vasudev Devnani's claim must be "investigated empirically".
 
 However, in his tweet, Tewari got the name of the 6th century astronomer wrong, and he called him "Brahmaputra 2", instead of  .
 
  
  
 
 When people on social media then ridiculed Tewari for getting the name wrong, was the Congress leader chastised? 
 
 No, he wasn't, because he then tweeted saying "Natha Singh & Prem Singh one and the same thing", implying that the BJP MLA's claim was so ridiculous that it didn't matter what the name is of the 6th century person who supposedly discovered gravity before Newton.
 
  
  
 At an event on Monday, the BJP's Devnani claimed that Indian mathematician and astronomer Brahmagupta-II (598-670) discovered the law of 
  over 1,000 years before 
  (1642-1727) did.
 
 "Since childhood, we have been reading that Newton discovered the law of gravity, but in reality, an Indian astronomer discovered it, if you revisit history," said Devnani.
 
 In his first tweet, Tewari also poked fun at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who in October 2014 said that "plastic surgery existed in ancient India", and cited the example of the Hindu elephant-man god Ganesha, who has an elephant's face atop a man's body.
 
 Tewari linked his tweet to a story in the British newspaper Guardian that was one of many media outlets that reported the PM's claim.
 
 "We can feel proud of what our country achieved in medical science at one point of time...We worship Lord Ganesha. There must have been some plastic surgeon at that time who got an elephant's head on the body of a human being and began the practice of plastic surgery," the prime minister told a gathering of doctors and other professionals at a hospital in Mumbai in October 2014, wrote Guardian.
 
 
