

 
 The run-up to the polls has been very positive for us. I am very confident that   will get a comfortable majority and we will return to power.
 
 
 
 They can make the claim, but there is no change on the ground. I think Modi has not made any impact on BJP’s prospects. The PM’s language is anything but nice and is certainly not true. The ease with which he lies makes the people of Karnataka uncomfortable and our supporters angry. Voter is not so fickle that he will change listening to some speeches. The voter does not even understand the Hindi that the PM, Amit Shah (BJP national president) or Yogi Adityanath (Uttar Pradesh CM) speak. In fact, surveys released after Modi started his rallies here have also given more seats for Congress;. I am sure we will get a comfortable majority.
 
 
 
 Yedddyurappa has that habit of counting chickens before they hatch. He had announced the Nanjangud and Gundlupet bypoll results a month before polling. In a democracy I will never take the voter for granted. I will only express confidence in their political maturity. Moreover, why will the voter trust Yeddyurappa? He says he has forgiven G Janardhana Reddy. Who is he to forgive? He says the Reddys have assured him they will not trouble him the way they troubled him when he was CM the last time. Is Karnataka some kind of a treasure for these people to agree to share?
 
 
 
 We are not on the defensive. It is BJP’s strategy to bring PM here and he makes wild allegations. We have countered him. But my contest is not with PM. He is not going to be CM here. My contest is with Yeddyurappa and I have called him for a debate. I am asking him to list five reasons why people should vote for him.
 
 
 
 We are confident of getting majority on our own. JD(S) is already playing a game, they have a tacit understanding with BJP. Look at the manner in which both parties have given tickets in north Karnataka and south Karnataka, the game plan will become clearer.
 
 
 
 I don’t believe in the politics of polarisation. Congress is the only party that has the support of all castes and communities. For Modi, ‘Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas’ is a slogan. But we practise it. Our party has tall Vokkaliga leaders who have their own support base in the community. We don’t think there is any Vokkaliga consolidation. Our flagship programmes such as Anna Bhagya, Ksheera Bhagya, loan waiver and Krishi Bhagya have helped all castes.
 
 
 
 Does it look like I am tied up anywhere? I have campaigned in almost all districts. I have gone to Badami only twice. I will win comfortably from both constituencies.
 
 
 
 The oratory of PM is populism, not my programmes. When I signed the Anna Bhagya file within one hour of becoming the CM in 2013, I laid the foundation for a ‘hunger-free Karnataka’. My programmes empower people and put money in their pockets. An autodriver in Bengaluru, for instance, was earlier spending Rs 150 on his daily meals. After we started Indira Canteens, he spends only Rs 25 for three meals. He is saving Rs 100-125 daily. How is that populist? Speeches on Mudhol dogs and patriotism do not address the concerns of Kannadigas. This is an election of development versus empty oratory, we represent development.
 
 
 
 Dalits have every right to aspire for the CM’s position. The true test of democracy is whether a backward class person, a Dalit, a minority or a woman can reach the top political position. And I assure you only Congress can give a Dalit chief minister. But in this election, there is no confusion on leadership. Elections are being held under my leadership and after the election, the legislature party and the high command will decide the next CM.
 
 
 
 Elections should not be personalised. BJP started this trend. They made the first move by making baseless personal allegations against me. When a person holding as responsible a post as PM comes here and calls me 10% I can’t take it lying down. I have to respond. But I have never made personal attacks against anybody. My attack against PM  , Amit Shah and Yeddyurappa is based on facts and has been made in response to the baseless allegations made by them.
 
 
 
 I have always stood for a principled public life. I don’t understand this new “hit-and-run” politics of telling lies and getting away. That is why I have decided to sue the PM, Shah and Yeddyurappa for defamation.
 
 
 
 Elections are always fought on the ground. Social media is only an additional support. There is no substitute to on-the-ground campaign with direct outreach to voters.
 
 
 
 This is a baseless allegation. Real estate is an industry and we do not allow any real estate person to interfere in our government.
 
