CHENNAI: It read 90 minutes on the clock and Chennaiyin FC (CFC) had all but booked their place in the ISL-4 final. But   wasn’t finished yet. CFC midfielder Jaime Gavilan threaded a pass towards the Mizo forward with Goa defender   in an ideal place to clear the ball. Ali’s poor touch and Jeje’s ‘never give up’ attitude meant that the ball landed at the latter’s foot. A calm   foxed an onrushing Goa ’keeper   to slot in his second and CFC’s third goal of the night.

 
 It was an opportunistic goal and Jeje showed that he was hungry for more even after breaking his goal drought of seven matches early in the match with a perfectly-timed header. The 27-year-old had also played a key role in CFC’s second goal when he intelligently earned a free-kick after making one of his numerous runs down the channels. Dhanpal Ganesh didn’t let Jeje’s effort go waste as he headed home from the set piece.
 
 Jeje, though, gave credit to the entire team for his twin strikes. “It was an important match for us. The win became more special for me because I had made significant contributions. But I don’t want to take credit alone. I have got tremendous support from our midfielders like Gregory Nelson, Raphael Augusto, Ganesh and others. So it was a team victory in the end,” Jeje told TOI after the match.
 
 The brace signalled Jeje’s return to form, which will be crucial for CFC in the final against Bengaluru FC on Saturday. Jeje has been playing as a lone striker in John Gregory’s 4-2-3-1 set-up. And it essentially means more workload on the forward as he gets fewer opportunities and has to work doubly hard.
 
 Fortunately for CFC, there has never been any let-up in Jeje’s intensity. The striker never lost self-belief in the dry spell and kept polishing his skills and working on his fitness. “The entire team backed me when I was down. It was tough but I never lost confidence and I am glad I could repay the faith. But my job is not done yet. Now we want to bring the trophy home,” Jeje said.
 
 CFC already had a foot in the semis after scoring two goals in first-half. But Jeje continued to threaten the Goa defence with his runs down the flanks. With his team often playing long balls, he made himself as an outlet for the team’s attack. Gregory said that it is this work ethic which made Jeje invaluable for the team.
 
 
 “He has always played on his own this season and it can be a lonely job. Sometimes, if you don’t score, you don’t even get the recognition. But I know what he brings to my side. He has always worked very hard and puts in the effort every time. He has not scored for a while but I supported him through that by just playing him every match. That’s how I could confirm to him that he is still important for the team. And I did tell him before the game that he would get two. And the first goal was classic Jeje,” Gregory said at the post-match press conference.
 
