NAVI MUMBAI: Three   from   drowned at   beach near   after they ventured deep into the sea during high tide around 7.30pm on Friday. The three were part of a group of 13 school friends who had gone on a picnic to the beach.

 The   victims include   Sule (20), Aashish Mishra (20) and Fahad Siddiqui (21).
 
 Bodies of two of the victims —Ashish and Fahad—were recovered on Saturday between 10am and noon after they were washed ashore near two villages close to  . 
 
 Alibaug police have registered a case of accidental death.
 
 “Chaitanya had just completed a cinematography course after his HSC. He used to take up video-shooting assignments and was looking for a suitable job,” said his father Kiran Sule, a retired MTNL employee.
 
 Fahad, son of a carpenter, was pursing his final-year diploma in mechanical engineering while Aashish had completed a merchant navy course in Chennai and had even joined a shipping company last month. He had returned home, though, as he was suffering from malaria. Ashish’s father is a cool cab driver.
 
 Alibaug police station senior inspector   said, “The group of 13 youths spent time at Varsoli beach till evening and around 6.30pm, they came to Nagaon beach where they had booked rooms at Mihir Cottage for a night halt. Around 7.30pm, the group went to Nagaon beach for a swim. Their friend Prajyot Pinjari claimed to have told his friends to return to the cottage as it would be risky to swim during high tide. But the three ignored the warning and continued to swim and even ventured deep. The other friends standing far away soon saw the them disappear. They immediately sought help of locals but could not trace them.”
 
 Warade said, “Mishra’s body was found washed ashore near Aagrav village while that of Siddique was found near Korlai village. Alibaug and Revdanda police are searching for Sule’s body. The coast guard was summoned for the search operation on Friday night but were yet to arrive. By around 11am, Alibaug and Revdanda police teams with the help of residents had traced two bodies.”
 
 
