PUNE: The   plan, a policy drafted by   for pedestrian facilities and safety, has 26 points detailing the specifications for footpaths.

 The plan spells out placement of barriers to prevent vehicle entry, movement and parking on footpaths. It frowns on placement of street lights, traffic signal poles, signages and feeder pillars hindering free passage for pedestrians. 
 
 The plan disallows advertisement boards, permanent and temporary flex hoardings, bus shelters on footpaths so that clear walking space on the pavement remains unaffected.
 
 
  
  
 
 The   also has a pedestrian policy and a hawkers’ policy and claims to follow urban street guidelines for pedestrians. 
 
 Yet, look around and most of these suggestions and guidelines have been flouted. Even if executed in certain areas of the city, citizens find footpaths out of bounds and law enforcing agencies like PMC and the traffic police doing little to safeguard pavements for pedestrians.
 
 Activist Qaneez Sukhrani has rarely seen a drive by the civic body against encroachers on pavements work.
 
 “The local ward office sometimes carries out these drives against hawkers and other people who encroach on pavements. Just when the yellow anti-encroachment vans are about to enter a street or an area, messages pop up in all of the vendors’ phones, and they go into hiding. Some carts are seized, but they all come back the day after,” Sukhrani, who is also part of the Vimannagar Citizen’s Forum, said.
 
 Pavements in Vimannagar have been the scenes of cat-and-mouse games, mostly involving hawkers on one side, and the residents and the PMC on the other. But residents say the civic body has done little, to the extent of even colluding with the hawkers who occupy large stretches of the pavement here.
 
 “Someone must be alerting them from within the ward office or the PMC. Neither the police nor the PMC is doing anything about it,” said Gurdeep Singh, a retired man, living in Vimannagar.
 
 Budgetary constraints and poor planning have also ensured that stretches of pavement are incomplete, adding to the mess. A 300-metre stretch between old Symbiosis campus and   does not have a pavement, because the PMC budget had no allocation for the project last year.
 
 “Many stretches on Ahmednagar Road also do not have a pavement, like the area around the Aga Khan Palace, or towards Shastrinagar. The existing pavements have been occupied by shops, beggars, and hutments, including the cycle tracks. On some other pavements, car dealers have parked their stock on the pavements, forcing people to walk on the road,” Sukhrani added.
 
 Vimanangar’s pavement story is mirrored on Laxmi Road, Fergusson College Road, Sahakarnagar, Salunke Vihar Road, in Aundh and the Peth areas. 
 
 “Footpaths on Golwalkar Guruji Road in Sahakarnagar are for hawkers, vegetable vendors and handcarts selling food,” a 70-year-old resident said. 
 
 She said she has never seen any action by the anti-encroachment squad of the PMC. “A huge illegal stall is periodically removed only to reappear with a different name,” she added.
 
  Salunke Vihar Road resient Ajit Mane said pavemtn were specially construccted when the road was concreted two years ago. 
 
 “They are of little use. Encroachments, garbage, cattle and feeder pillar make them a no-entry zone for walkers,” he said. 
 
 A movement starting to educate road users is necessary, he said. “Till there is respect for pedestrians, their right of way will always bee blocked,” he added. 
 
 (With inputs from Prasad Kulkarni)
 
 
