PATNA: After getting the chancellor’s nod on the revised regulations for PhD course in the light of the UGC (Minimum Standards and Procedure for Award of MPhil/PhD Degrees) Regulations, 2016, supposed to be uniformly implemented by all the universities in the state, the chancellor’s secretariat has now made a fresh move for getting the old regulations for   thoroughly revisited.

 While the regulations for PhD or M Phil courses have been revisited several times in the last one decade with a view to improving the quality of doctoral research work in the universities of the state, there has been no sincere effort on the part of the authorities concerned to raise the standard of post-doctoral work. The fresh move aims at updating the existing regulations (in vogue for the last several decades) for Doctor of Letters (D Litt) and Doctor of Science (D Sc) degrees being awarded in the universities of Bihar, said Raj Bhavan sources.
 
 The chancellor’s secretariat has reportedly entrusted this task of revising the guidelines for D Litt and DSc degrees to Patna University. The draft regulations finalized by PU and duly approved by its statutory bodies will be sent to the chancellor’s secretariat. If the draft regulations were found satisfactory, the same will be sent to other universities for obtaining their modifications or suggestions, if any. And, ultimately, the final draft of revised regulations will be implemented after getting the chancellor’s approval, sources said.
 
 On its part, PU has already constituted a five-member committee headed by pro-vice-chancellor Dolly Sinha to revise the regulations of post-doctoral courses. The committee is learnt to have finalized the draft of revised regulations and the same is likely to be placed in the next meeting of the academic council scheduled for May 16.
 
 The revised guidelines propose that a candidate seeking admission to D Sc/D Litt programme must have obtained a PhD or an equivalent degree from a recognized university, in the concerned discipline, at least seven academic years prior to the date of application and he must have at least five publications in reputed, refereed journals (of which three should be in international journals) after the award of PhD degree and on work other than the PhD work. 
 
 
