HYDERABAD: With many roads becoming death traps due to improper design and lack of safety measures, the municipal administration department has issued mandatory road safety guidelines to all civic bodies including the   (GHMC). The road safety and traffic control & regulatory measures are mandatory for roads that have a minimum carriage way width of nine metres (30 ft).

 
 “The civic bodies have to incorporate the traffic control and regulatory measures at the design and construction stage for the roads during maintenance of existing roads and new roads. The urban local bodies have to follow the traffic and regulatory measures code of practice for Road Signs and Code of Practice for Road Markings and Code of Practice for Traffic Management at work zones,”  , principal secretary of Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) department said in a GO issued on Friday.
 
 The order said the state government is concerned about the traffic-related incidents in the state. Many people are losing their lives in road accidents and the fatalities are about 35% in urban areas. Engineering officials said some of the road accidents are due to lack of proper road design, signs and road laying errors. For instance, a few years ago there was an accident-prone area on NTR Marg, Necklace Road due to a technical problem in the road curve, and it was rectified by GHMC.
 
 Arvind Kumar said to minimize road accidents and make roads safer, it has been decided to provide a check-list of safety measures which need to be followed by the civic bodies while laying or maintaining the roads in their jurisdiction.
 
 He said urban local bodies must include the safety and traffic control measures while calling for tenders for taking up road works.
 
 Meanwhile, the MA&UD department also issued another order delegating powers to the officers of the municipal administration to take up works up to ₹40 lakh without seeking any administrative approval from the government. In the order, the principal secretary said the decision has been taken in view of the damages caused by rains, gales, and thunderstorms.
 
