She has wrestled her way to the podium, only to give goosebumps to lakhs of Indians who saw her aggressive bout and the bronze win at the Rio Olympics 2016. 

  Gearing up for the   Commonwealth Games scheduled in April this year, Freestyle wrestler   says she got a silver in Glasgow last time, but at the Gold Coast, she’ll settle for nothing less than the amber glitter on her. 
 
  Nothing has changed after marriage apart from her hunger for medals, which has gone up manifold. Malik practises at her father-in-law’s akhada these days. Excerpts from an interview...
 
  
 
 
  People used to taunt me a lot. They’d say... What will a girl get out of wrestling? Or, who’ll marry me with all the changes my body will undergo... People laughed at me and that made me wrestle my way into this male bastion. Even today, wrestling is considered a masculine sport. That leaves me with very few women to practise with. However, this only inspired me to prove people wrong. 
 
  
 
 
  Dream big. Keep your focus and chase that dream. If you are honest in your intentions and willing to dedicate your life to it, nothing can stop you.
 
  Like I mentioned, wrestling remains a male-centric sport but I’ve seen a considerable change post Rio Olympics. I think the only way to keep this momentum is to encourage daughters to get into the sport to win accolades for the country. 
 
  
 
 
  Focus on your goal, and only on your goal. Nothing can be more intimidating for a man than a strong, focused, vociferous woman, especially if she can wrestle too. 
 
 
 
  For me, fortunately nothing has changed. The spirit of sport runs in the family as Satyawart (Kadian) is an Arjuna Awardee. My father-in-law — also a wrestler — understands how focused a sportsperson has to be. We have an akhada at home. I get to practise every day – an ideal schedule for any sportsperson. 
 
  My husband guides me on skills, speed and techniques, and constant discussion about my sport keeps me charged up. 
 
  
 
 
  I don’t have words to describe that feeling. It had been my dream to win a medal at the Olympics, and I had toiled for 12 years for it. When I eventually won the bronze, I was on top of the world. 
 
  Back in Rohtak, everyone came home with gifts, and the same people who taunted me earlier, started to call me ‘beti’ (daughter). I am even more motivated to take on Tokyo 2020
 
 
  A woman wrestler from India whose only goal in life is to win an  .
 
 
