RAJKOT: The   (RMC) on Monday suspended an assistant engineer and issued show cause notices to at least 25 engineer as a scam of selling valves meant for the civic body’s water pipelines in the open market surfaced recently.

 After a departmental investigation followed by a vigilance inquiry, the RMC on Monday decided to lodge an FIR against 10 agencies that were hired to replace old valves with new ones purchased by the civic body. Inquiry has revealed that none of the valves worth Rs 3.51lakh that were supposed to be replaced in the year 2012-13 were replaced in water pipeline networks across various zones of the city. 
 
 Rajkot municipal commissioner   said that he had received a complaint regarding the agencies not replacing valves and instead were selling it in open market. “The FIR was lodged based on the vigilance inquiry report and it is likely that few employees of RMC could be included after the investigation,” he added.
 
 He said that the scam could grow bigger after investigation into records of subsequent years. 
 
 According to RMC officials, the waterworks department of civic body purchases new valves every year to replace the old ones. It had hired 10 agencies to get new valves from its storeroom and replace old ones with it. But investigation by RMC’s vigilance team revealed that none of the new valves were replaced in the year 2012-13. Instead, the officers and agencies had allegedly repaired old valves and sold new ones in the market. However, on paper, they showed that the old valves were replaced.
 
 Pani said that assistant engineer  , who was working since nine years in the RMC’s waterworks department was suspended on Monday. “Probe has revealed that in many cases old valves were not deposited with the department according to the rules. Following this, we have changed some rules with immediate effect,” he added.
 
 “After the initial complaint, six months before a departmental inquiry found something was wrong and a vigilance inquiry was instituted. The vigilance department in its inquiry submitted the report stating that valves worth Rs 3.51 lakh were missing,” said Pani. He also accepted that there was lapse on part of RMC’s engineers in supervising the task. 
 
 After the scam surfaced, RMC has decided to install five CCTV cameras in the civic body’s storeroom, and to maintain a ward-wise register. 
 
 
