KOLKATA: A local strongman has allegedly stopped a government agency from installing an automatic air quality monitoring station that is vital to find out how foul the city’s air is so that the government can take corrective measures. In the absence of this monitoring station in north Kolkata, the only reliable data available is from a station at Victoria Memorial Hall. There are two more automatic stations, one at   at the American Consulate and another at Taratala operated by private power utility CESC.

 
 “The contractor engaged by West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) to install the continuous ambient air quality monitoring station on the Rabindra Bharati University (RBU) campus on BT Road has been unable to work due to extraneous circumstances. We have taken up the matter with RBU authorities, but there has been no solution yet. It is very sad that sophisticated equipment imported from France at a cost in excess of Rs 1 crore is lying idle,” said WBPCB chairman Kalyan Rudra.
 
 Nearly two decades ago, WBPCB — a wing of the environment department — had signed a memorandum of understanding with the university for using a small plot on its BT Road campus to house an air quality monitoring station. A station had thereafter been installed in 2002 and was functional till October 2017. The new imported equipment was supposed to be installed in its place.
 
 Sources said a local tough with alleged links to a lawmaker from the ruling party had demanded Rs 8 lakh from the contractor to install the equipment. “Nothing can happen in the belt without paying protection money to him. When the contractor went to execute the project in November 2017, he was first asked to shift the location of the monitoring station and then told he could work at the new site only if he paid up,” asource said.
 
 The work involved strengthening an existing 4m×7m brick-and-mortar platform where the earlier station was installed, setting up the new station and connecting it with electricity and internet lines. “The monitoring station can be set up in less than 10 days at the old site and would take around a month if it has to be put up at an alternative site,” a technician who has worked on such installations said.
 
 The machine from   of France can read the quantum of fine particulate matter (PM2.5), carbon monoxide and oxides of nitrogen and sulphur and other harmful chemicals in the air 24×7. No data has been generated from the Rabindra Bharati site for six months. Given the current impasse, the   is unable to say when the next reading will be available.
 
 “Only real-time data is acceptable worldwide. Much to the embarrassment of the state, no data on Kolkata was available on the national air quality index. Now, only half of Kolkata will be represented. That amachine is lying idle is criminal,” said environmentalist Sudipto Bhattacharya.
 
 RBU vice-chancellor Sabyasachi Basu Roychowdhury said he was unaware of the problem. “I am told the machine requires a larger space. We will speak to WBPCB and provide space for its installation,” he said.
 
 Till the impasse at RBU is resolved, there are seven WBPCB-run automatic monitoring stations in the state. Apart from Victoria Memorial Hall in Kolkata, there are two stations in Howrah at Paddapukur and Ghusuri, and one each in Durgapur, Asansol, Haldia and Siliguri. Of these, the stations at Paddapukur, Asansol and Siliguri are new locations.
 
