MADURAI: Seeking to make casting of   as mandatory, a   (PIL) has been filed at the Madurai bench of the Madras high court. 

 One Abimani alias R Chandrasekaran has filed the petition, which came up for hearing before the division bench headed by M Sathyanarayanan. The petitioner said, at present optional voting system is in practice in the country, which has paved way for corruption and bribery. Political parties and their candidates are spending huge money as a good business investment in the elections to lure voters and caste their votes for them (parties). After coming to power, politicians who invested money in the election have been indulging in immoral and illegal process of earning multiple times of the investment which shall be enough for several of their generations.
 
 “While political rules are involved in corruption, bureaucrats, contractors, businessmen, government employees have also been taking active part in bribery and corruption system. Due to this, most of the educated, knowledgeable and well-settled people are not interested in politics and do not participate in the vote casting during elections. Also the same is desired and wished by many important political parties since the intelligent society would indirectly eliminate the wrong and rowdy elements through elections, if they actively take part in casting their votes. Unless this group of people vote, it is sure that corruption will never end ,” the petitioner said.
 
 The petitioner also suggested that casting of votes could be brought in two categories – mandatory and optional. People have 100 years old, highly sick and bedridden, highly physically challenged, out of nation, on government duty, well away from the constituency for genuine reasons and other such exclusive categories may be kept in optional casting and could be exempted from mandatory voting and the remaining eligible voters must vote. If they fail to vote, various domestic punishments such as stopping of electricity, water, ration, giving of licences, permission to start civil works like construction of house, work place etc., and entry into government jobs/promotion/suspension, etc., for some specific period or till the next election might be imposed, the petitioner said.
 
 He also wanted to bring reforms such as restricting contesting of  , stopping door-to-door campaign, bringing all candidates in one stage to say about their election manifesto and campaigning speech within a time frame and punishing people not casting votes. Insisting it, the petitioner sent representations to the offices of President, PM, home ministry, law ministry and chief election commission on December 15 last. But, no action was taken , the petitioner said. The bench adjourned the case to know the status of the representation.
 
 
