Chennai: In a sign of tougher times and growing maturity of the ecosystem, startups are going back to their investors for a second round in a bid to extend their runway and build the business further. As venture capitalists take longer to cut cheques, startups focus on measuring unit economics.  Angel investment group Keiretsu Forum has seen 8 of its portfolio companies come back for a second round over the last 2 years. From 3 follow-on rounds in 2016, Keiretsu Forum made 7 follow-on investments in 2017. “This is a reflection of the market. It is taking longer for companies to build momentum. Also, when money supply is tight, it is easier to raise follow-on money from people who ‘know you’,”said Rajan Srikanth, co-president, India/Singapore. In a bid to support startups prepping to go in for another VC round, Indian Angel Network has an IAN Fund which invests in the IAN portfolio companies as and when required. “Venture Capitalists take their time to understand the model, crunch the numbers and do their due diligence. For some startups, this time period is tricky as they can lose their traction and even shut shop. With the IAN Fund, we are able to crunch their fund raise time,” said Padmaja Ruparel, founder, Indian Angel NEtwork. IAN Fund has invested in 8 companies to date. This trend of reverting to known investors for funds is not restricted to early stage deals, says Arun Natarajan, founder, Venture Intelligence, a data research firm.Several big names have gone back for a double dip in the last few months. For instance, UrbanLadder raised $12 million from 4 existing investors in January this year. In November last year, Accel Partners pumped in Rs 100 crore into their portfolio company Universal Sports Biz, Venture Intelligence data said.  “Grofers raised Rs 400 crore from existing investors Tiger Global and Softbank. Their valuation dropped 20% and the round did not see participation from Sequoia Capital. This is a trend we will continue to see,” said Natarajan. The slow down in the early stage deals has also led to a dip in the venture debt industry. “The pipeline of early-stage deals is much lower than a couple of years ago. Now it will be a mix of repeat and new clients,” said Ashish Sharma, CEO at venture debt firm InnoVen Capital India in an earlier interaction with TOI.