MUMBAI: Any bad news about patients admitted to civic-run hospitals will be conveyed to their relatives by a senior medical teacher instead of resident doctors, who are essentially post-graduate students. This was one of the measures that the   plans to adopt over the next few months to make civic healthcare more appealing.

 Senior doctors will hence have to wait in hospitals till 4pm, said BMC additional municipal commissioner Idzes Kundan on Wednesday.
 
 Also on the anvil is an upgrade of equipment at BMC's dispensaries and peripheral hospitals and plans to give patients with chronic diseases such as diabetes or hypertension a month-long supply of drugs.
 
 These measures were chalked out at a meeting held by Kundan on Wednesday to discuss the civic morbidity study released last month. The report, which was prepared after studying data of 73.74 lakh patients who visited the four major BMC hospitals over the over the last two years, showed that 31.14% patients had psychiatric disorders, followed by 23.22% who had diabetes and 22.78% who had hypertension.
 
 Kundan told TOI, “The study revealed the areas where interventions are required, and we will accordingly work on implementing a slew of them.” A committee including senior civic public health officials was then set up to draw up recommendations.
 
 One of the main recommendations is that sensitive news should be conveyed only by a doctor who is of lecturer and above rank. This follows the assault on two resident doctors at the government-run JJ  , Byculla, by a dead patient’s relatives a fortnight back.
 
 “Such situations are tricky and need to be sensitively handled. As resident doctors are overworked, it has been decided that this ‘breaking bad’ must be done by someone of a level not less than that of a lecturer,” said Kundan. 
 
 Civic-run KEM Hospital dean Dr Avinash Supe told TOI that the morbidity study showed the dire need to upgrade dispensaries and peripheral hospitals. “Communication is another area we will concentrate on,” said the doctor.
 
 The study showed that most patients of non-communicable diseases such as diabetes and hypertension cases visited civic dispensaries. Therefore, it has been decided to strengthen primary healthcare by giving out drugs for a longer period. Experts felt this would decongest the  , helping them concentrate on serious patients.
 
 The committee has recommended that vendors supplying drugs must be asked to do so in glass bottles instead of plastic. A central warehouse for surplus drugs will come up.
 
