AJMER: President  , along with his family, went to the Brahma Temple in Pushkar on Monday but did not go inside. Instead he offered prayers from the stairs. The President also did not write his experience at the   of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti and talked to Anjuman, the organization of khadims.

 
 The local administration said the president’s wife had difficulty in climbing the stairs, therefore, the couple and their daughter offered prayers from outside the temple.   collector Arti Dogra told TOI, “The President’s wife had problem in climbing the stairs, which were 50 in number, therefore, we arranged for pooja on the steps.” The district administration had arranged a red carpet welcome from the stairs of the Brahma Temple, which was kept closed for regular devotees on Monday. After climbing three or four steps of the temple, President  , his wife   and daughter Swati offered prayers from there. A picture of Brahma was installed on the stairs where they offered prayers as per local rituals and customs. Later, the priests here gave a memorandum to the President for beautification of the Pushkar Lake. There was tight security for the President, who reached Ghooghra Helipad in Ajmer around 10.20 am. MinistersHemsinghBhadana,Vasudev Devnani, Anita Bhadel and the administrative officials welcomed the President here.
 
 From the helipad, Kovind went to the holy town of Pushkar where most of the markets were kept closed for security reasons. The President and his family enjoyed the scenery of Pushkar Sarovar (holy lake) and took notes about the place.
 
 Later, the President went to the dargah where the dargah and the Anjuman committees welcomed him. Kovind offered chadder inside the crypt and talked about the importance of this place. He visited the premises and saw the Deg (flour pot).
 
 The Anjuman committee keeps a ‘guest book’ in which heads of countries who visit the Dargah write down their experiences. Kovind, however, did not write anything in the book and talked more about the importance of the place. The President and his family then went to the circuit house to rest before flying back to Jaipur in a chopper in the afternoon.About3,000 police personnel were deployed for the President’s security and all administrative officials were engaged in his visit, traffic of the city was diverted and people had to take other routes to reach their destinations. Even the Dargah Market and the   were closed for security reasons and nodevoteeswere allowed to enter the Dargah.
 
