Kolkata: Violence in the run-up to the Bengal   polls no longer remained a one-party affair on the fourth day of filing of nominations on Friday as political opponents came together to match the ruling party’s might in several places to make their way to block offices. 

 The wrangling match became worse in Birbhum’s Nalhati, where BJP supporters defied prohibitory orders in front of the Nalhati block office and engaged in a pitched battle with police, prompting forces to fire rubber pellets on the crowd for the first time this polls.
 
 According to police, 25 bombs were seized from the BJP party office nearby and 25 people were arrested from Nalhati in this connection.
 
 A comment from BJP state president Dilip Ghosh earlier in the day apparently added fuel to the fire. “Police are behaving like cadres of the ruling party. They were beaten up yesterday, and may face the music even today, if need be. We can’t greet the police with ‘rasogollas’ if they beat our men,” Ghosh said, hours before the clashes broke out. Trinamool secretary general Partha Chatterjee said the party will lodge a complaint with the state election commission against Ghosh’s “provocative” remarks.
 
 Nalhati was on the boil soon after BJP supporters started trooping into a party office near the block office on Friday, a day after CPM leader Ramchandra Dom was hit on the head allegedly by Trinamool miscreants. A huge police contingent led by SDPO Rampurhat Mitun Kumar Dey had cordoned off the block office while the administration clamped Section 144 around the office.
 
 As Dey reasoned with BJP leaders against organising the rally, the arguments led to an altercation, and people started throwing stones at the police. BJP state youth secretary Dhrubajyoti Saha alleged that while negotiations were on, a police team raided the adjoining party office. “Police lathicharged our supporters and locked the doors of the party office from outside,” Saha said. The violence continued in phases, prompting cops to burst tear-gas shells and fire rubber pellets.
 
 In West Midnapore’s Chandrakona, BJP supporters clashed with Trinamool activists outside the Chandrakona II block office, leaving 10 people from both sides injured. BJP leaders alleged that 40 of their candidates for gram panchayats and panchayat samitis were filing their nominations when Trinamool goons attacked them. In the brick-batting that followed, the BJP office was allegedly damaged. BJP Ghatal president Ratan Dutta said: “None of our candidates could file nominations.” Trinamool Chandrakona MLA Chhaya Dolui retorted: “No one from Trinamool attacked anyone. Instead, our men sustained injuries.”
 
 Eight persons were injured in clashes between Left-Congress and Trinamool su-pporters inside block offices in East Burdwan’s Monteswar and Galsi during filing of nominations. Six were injured in clashes in Murshidabad’s Raghunathganj near the Jangipur SDO’s office in Nabagram when Congress, CPM and even BJP came together to combat Trinamool toughs. CPM activists blocked roads in Purulia town after party veteran and former MP Basudeb Acharia came under attack from Trinamool supporters at Kashipur.
 
 Even Independent candidates from Jami Jibika Bastutantra O Paribesh Raksha Committee in South 24 Parganas’ Bhangar were not spared. A total of 16 Independent candidates, including college students and housewives, were thrashed inside the Polerhat II Bhangar block office allegedly by Trinamool leader Arabul Islam’s son Hakimul. In North 24 Parganas’ Hingalganj, mother of a Trinamool candidate was shot at, allegedly by BJP miscreants.
 
 
