CAPE TOWN: The South African team's net session at the Newlands on Tuesday morning, a day ahead of the third One-day International against India here, was a sight. Even on second thought it appeared like the hosts had invited every slow bowler worth his penny to bowl at the batsmen in what seemed like an endless practice stint.

 
 
 
 
 And slow meant absolute slow. Flight became a big deal. Loop and the nip remained the focus and one precise line was maintained. Wait for the ball to come to you. Wait for the bad one to score. Dale Benkenstein, the team's batting coach, was in command. It didn't really come to mind that here was the world's No. 2 ODI team, struggling to get it right.
 
 
 
 
 But such has been South Africa's misery once the ODIs began at the start of this month. The first blow came ahead of the first game when   got ruled out. The second ahead of the second game when Faf du Plessis followed AB. The third ahead of the third game, scheduled today, where Quinton de Kock is out of reckoning too.
 
 It's not been easy on Aiden Markram, who'll be playing only his fourth ODI at the Newlands, to get a combination in place that can stop this surging Indian team.
 
 From a Cricket South Africa (CSA) perspective, it's an excellent time for the team management, regardless of the injuries and the two back-to-back losses. They get to rotate cricketers - black and white - so as to fulfill their quota norm.
  
  
 It's the team, as a unit, that's been unable to cope and therefore, in looking for all the possible answers, a remedy was sought on the eve of the game. From   to Markram and the onematch old Khaya Zondo to all-rounder  , they began decelerating their game.
 
  did not hesitate for a moment when asked if the South Africans looked psyched out on the field. The poor batting in Centurion - one where South Africa registered their lowest total at home and lost by a record 177 deliveries - does make it appear like the hosts have been relatively clueless in their approach so far.
 
 "Definitely (they look psyched out). If a player has some confusion or doubt in mind, its first affects the thinking. No matter who the batsman it, it shows in the batting," said Dhawan.
 
 The opener would know a thing coming from a Test series when India's top-order, barring  , looked lost. A change of format has only switched miseries from one camp to another.
 
 South Africa can't just pat down the slower ones being sent in by   and  . This being a 50-over format, the onus has to be on putting runs on the board and here's where they have looked disorderly. To go forward and hit the ball before it hits the surface which enables it "to do things", or go back and wait till you've seen it till "that last split second".
 
 "I won't say it's about lack of patience. You're playing one-day cricket, so you have to score runs. If you defend 50 balls and don't score, then that's of no use. They are losing a lot of wickets in the middle, which is why they can't get to the targets they are trying to make," said Dhawan.
 
 The onus, clearly, is on the hosts to make a match of it on Wednesday. Down 0-2, another loss will further reduce whatever's left of this series - which is not much anyway right now. 
 
 
 
 
 
