Mumbai:   will begin the search for a   for   within a year. The bank plans to finalise by October 2019 a successor who will work alongside Puri and take over when he retires in October 2020. The bank’s succession plans were revealed to   following the fourth quarter results. The question ‘After Puri, who?’ had been a cause of worry for investors a few years back when the retirement age for bank CEOs was 65. Their concerns were assuaged once the RBI extended the retirement age to 70 in 2017 in a bid to harmonise its norms with the Companies Act.

 With this, the boards of three large private banks will be looking for new CEOs. Axis Bank CEO Shikha Sharma has announced her decision to step down in December this year. 
 
 IndusInd Bank CEO Romesh Sobti too will be stepping down in March 2020. Following the revision in retirement age in June 2015, the HDFC Bank board approved the re-appointment of Aditya Puri as the managing director of the bank for a period of five years ending November 2020 when Puri turns 70. The board will look for a CEO both within and outside the organisation. Within HDFC Bank, the No. 2 executive is deputy MD Paresh Sukthankar.
 
 The succession plan was confirmed in a research report by  , which was published following a post-results interaction with the bank’s management. The report attributed to Puri the announcement that the process to identify his successor will start 18 months before he retires in October 2020. It also states that the CEO designate will join the bank a year prior to Puri’s retirement.
 
 Puri, who headed Citibank’s Malaysia operations, was hand-picked by HDFC chairman   to launch the new private bank in 1994. 
 
 Puri built HDFC Bank to become the most valuable private bank in India, achieving a market cap of Rs 1 lakh crore within 10 years of its launch.
 
 Puri, India’s longest serving bank CEO, has grown the bank in the last 24 years through a series of acquisitions and organic growth. Today, HDFC Bank has a balance sheet size of Rs 10.5 lakh crore and a market cap of over Rs 5 lakh crore.
 
 
