In the latest episode of  , Naira sees Suhana and Rahul's faces as the ladoos get dropped on the floor and suspects them. Dadi asks Naira to apply tilak on everyone's forehead, as Guruji advised them to. Kartik tells Naira that they would soon catch Suhana red handed as the CCTVs had been installed. Rahul and Suhana had mixed something in the tilak after which everyone in the house faints. 

 Suhana and Rahul applaud themselves as Naira and Kartik faint and fall down. They feel happy that they were able to out smart Naira. Rahul asks her to leave them and steal valuables from the house.
 
 Luv and Kush, who were in their room, get up and find the rest of the family unconscious. They grow suspicious about Suhana's absence and try to wake up Naira. 
 
 Suhana comes out and sees Luv and Kush trying to wake Naira up and worries. She promises to ruin Naira's reputation in front of the family and loot everything from the house. As Naira tries to get up, she applies tilak on her again, making her faint. Suhana quickly takes the locker keys from Dadi and steals money. As she steals away valuables with Rahul and Savita's help, she feels happy to have conned Shubham and his family. 
 
 Just as she is about to leave the house with all the loot, she throws something at Naira and mocks her. Suddenly, Naira opens her eyes. Suhana is shocked to see this. Dadi, Kartik, Swarna and others also wake up.
 
 Luv and Kush help Naira confine Suhana, Savita and Rahul to a corner. Naira slaps Suhana and questions her motives to destroy the family. She says that she was smart enough to not play along Suhana's plans and tells her that she was only acting in front of Suhana, taking the children's help in deceiving Suhana.
 
 Naira decides to call the police from Suhana's phone and says that she knew Suhana's moves very well. Kartik supports Naira and says that Suhana chose the wrong family to plot against. As Suhana's lies get caught, everybody discovers the truth about her. Shubham learns the truth and cries. 
 
