PANAJI: Health minister   said he has given specific instructions to security personnel at   (GMC) and hospital to not allow anyone to offer roosters before the deity within the hospital premises.

 The health minister said attempts by the hospital’s administration to remove the roosters from the hospital’s premises in the past have not been effective. 
 
 Earlier the birds were caught and left outside the GMC premises, but would sometimes return, the health minister said, adding, “Now I have told the security to catch anyone found offering a  , and to hand the bird back to the person with the clear instruction to leave it outside the hospital compound.” 
 
 In May last year, TOI had filed a report on the nuisance created by the gallinaceous birds at the state’s premier hospital. The report mentioned that roosters could even be found in the out patient departments, with some even being spotted in hospital corridors. Patients admitted in the hospital are woken up at the break of dawn and repeatedly during the day, by their crowing.
 
 A security guard was recently stationed at the entrance of the casualty building with the sole purpose of ensuring that the birds and stray dogs don’t enter along with patients, GMC dean Dr   had told TOI.
 
 A certain section of Hindus believe that the dead person’s soul remains in control of the folk deity of the area where relatives offer roosters to please the deity with the belief that their relative’s soul will be released. Only after this offering do some families proceed with the post cremation rites of their loved ones. In other cases roosters are also offered once a patient has recovered.
 
 Terming the practice of offering a fowl before a deity as an outdated concept, Rane said, “You don’t need to do that. Just prayers are sufficient,” adding that despite warnings by security personnel in the past, the practice has not stopped.
 
 Until a few months ago, even stray cattle were spotted the hospital’s corridors. “At least, now there are no stray dogs roaming in the GMC corridors,” Rane said.
 
 
