NAGPUR: Union minister of state for home   has said that the security forces have managed to free much of the geographical region from the control of Maoists, who have received repeated setbacks. 

 Ahir convened a meeting of senior officials of police department and   (BSNL) at   on Wednesday.
 
 When asked about Maoists stepping up the ante post-Kasnasur and Ipent encounters, the minister indicated escalation of deployment and further strengthening of intelligence machineries in the regions hit by Left-wing terrorism.
 
 “We are equally concerned about the safety and security of the forces stationed at critical places as well as their equipment and establishments. Our government has already sanctioned around Rs25,000 crore for modernization of forces to equip them with more sophisticated weaponry and gadgets,” Ahir said while talking to TOI.
 
 He said the number of Maoists has been reduced with their recruitments crippled as well.
 
 Ahir appealed to the urban masses to refrain from towing a failed ideology of communism referring to Maoists’ plan to extend their activities in the urban centres.
 
 On the allegations regarding the   encounters, Ahir said the district collector of Gadchiroli has already instituted an inquiry to probe into the incidents. “The reports of the inquiries are awaited. If someone is found guilty as per the report, action would follow accordingly,” the minister said.
 
 The minister sounded upbeat about the success of security forces in Kashmir and the north-east. He said there has been success in cracking down on the terror-funding activities with reduced incidents of stone-pelting in Kashmir unlike the past years.
 
 “The high voting percentage of 75-80% in Tripura, Meghalaya, Nagaland and such north-eastern states indicate the prevalence of peace due to the efforts of the security forces. We have not only snapped much of the funding channels but also managed to make them face trials through National Investigation Agency (NIA),” he said.
 
 Ahir urged senior police officials from Vidarbha to ensure that cattle smugglers are tackled at their sources rather than being allowed to reach the state borders.
 
 In the meeting which was attended by inspector general of police for Amravati and Nagpur ranges, along with SPs of Wardha, Yavatmal and other districts, the minister cracked the whip on senior cops pointing out the increase in criminal and other illegal activities. “Apart from criminal and cattle smuggling, the law of liquor prohibition in districts like Wardha, Gadchiroli and Chandrapur needs to strictly enforced,” he said.
 
 Ahir’s another agenda was on upgrading telecommunication facilities in the regions hit by Left-wing extremism. “Our focus is now to shift to optical fibres and also upgrade to 3G and 4G so that our jawans of are able to have a free and frequent communication with their family from their interior posts,” he said.
 
 “New technologies in the telecommunication system will be adopted to further upgrade the existing arrangements,” the minister added.
 
 
