Nagpur: People freely discuss about physical health but they dither when it comes to speak on mental well-being as it continues to be a taboo, said Poonam Menaria, a counsellor and psychotherapist. 
 
 Menaria was speaking at a public session organized by the   and Psychotherapists, Nagpur, on ‘Mental health for women’ at Chitnavis Centre, to find reasons behind their   issues and provide solutions. 
  
 Stating the basics behind mental health issues, Menaria said, “Our education system mainly focuses on cognitive skills, but emotional literacy is simply ignored. No one ever teaches how to deal with emotions.” 
  
 She disapproved of the lifestyle of the new era and was of the opinion that people occupy their minds in surfing internet, watching TV and using social media to a great extent to avoid letting out their sentiments because they believe what they are feeling is wrong. 
  
 “People today are busy sharing information instead of sharing emotions which is making us almost a robot,” she said. 
  
 Menaria explained how a woman brings a different feeling and vibrancy in every room she walks in. She said that a woman’s inherent qualities such as her sensitivity, ability to nurture and love have gone for a toss as they have started running after feminism and equality. 
  
  “There’s nothing wrong in being equal to a male, but why can’t a woman retain her natural qualities at the same time,” she asked. She subsequently linked women’s mental health issues to the burden of fulfilling responsibilities and relational problems, especially children. 
  
 “Human life is mainly based on factors like time, money, habits, attention and intention. If we start concentrating on where these factors are heading to in our life, we will get all our answers,” she said. 
  
 Menaria’s talk was followed by a session in which gynaecologist and philanthropist Dr   spoke on ‘Men’s role in women’s mental health’. She said that small acts of kindness is the simplest way a man can contribute for the wellness of a woman’s mental health. 
  
 The programme concluded with a panel discussion on ‘Being woman: New age challenges and remedies’ in which the panellists were Dr Chetan Rewatkar, Deshmukh, Seema Pagey and  . 
  
  “Things as simple as complementing her for the food she made or showing gratitude for the things she does for the family can make her happy throughout the day. Understanding a woman during her pre-menstrual times is also very important,” she said. 
  
  
