LUCKNOW: Ten days after the boundary wall of the UP   committee’s office was first painted saffron and then repainted white within 24 hours, its secretary RP   lost his post on Tuesday. Singh will, however, continue to retain his charge as joint director in the state minority welfare department.

 On Saturday, minister for haj and waqf   had sent a seven-point showcause notice to Singh and sought an explanation about the incident. “They had 10 days to send me a reply, but it is yet to come. This shows that there was some discrepancy on the part of the secretary, and hence, action has been taken.   has been removed from his additional post of secretary to the haj committee by the principal secretary of the department,”said Raza.
 
 Interestingly, Raza had defended the “saffronisation” of the boundary wall (on January 5), just after the incident was widely reported in the media. He called saffron the “colour of God” that gives energy.
 
 Singh had claimed that the painting was done in accordance with the colour of other government buildings in the vicinity. He had also said that while he had ordered for a “light brown” shade, an overexcited worker had gone ahead to paint the walls saffron. By the evening of January 6, the boundary wall was repainted white.
 
 The notice that Raza had later sent asked under what circumstances saffron paint was used and why was it necessary to the change in colour. It also asked Singh who ordered for the colouring and if any tender for the work had been advertised.
 
 The letter from Raza had also sought to know who was responsible for the repainting and who bore its cost. “On January 6, the secretary had to release a press statement, why did such a need arise and who ordered for it? Was there a written order to the contractor for the colouring? As per the press release, action was to be taken against the contractor, what action has been taken? The release also talks of a spot inspection by the secretary, when was that done?” read the letter. The charge has now been given to assistant director, minority welfare department, Vineet Srivastava.
 
