MANGALURU: Tension was palpable in Katipalla, near  , as leaders and members of Hindu organisations prevented police from handing over the body of Deepak Rao, 28, a   activist, to his family on Thursday. Violence had rocked the town in the wake of the murder, and schools, colleges and business establishments remained closed on Thursday.

 Deepak was murdered on Wednesday following a dispute over the tying of buntings during a religious festival some time ago. The police arrested four persons in connection with the murder in five hours.
 
 Fearing law and order trouble, police decided to transport Deepak’s remains to his residence two hours earlier than scheduled. However, hundreds of members of Hindu organizations who had planned to receive the body got wind of the move and blocked the vehicle transporting the body at  , a kilometre from his’s house.
 
 Mangaluru City police pleaded with the crowd to allow the body to be handed over to the family to proceed with the final rites, but Satyajit Surathkal of the BJP and the   refused.
 
 Hindu activists fume over denial of nod for funeral procession
 
 The right-wing leaders demanded that home minister Ramalinga Reddy arrive at the spot and hand over a compensation cheque of Rs 50 lakh to the victim’s family.
 
 The Hindu activists were angry since police had taken the body out of hospital through the backdoor, without informing the kin of the deceased. They were also fuming as police had refused to allow a funeral procession. The organizations had planned a 13-km procession from the house of the deceased. Policehad denied permission citing law and order problems and had invoked Karnataka Police Act 35 (prohibition of certain acts for prevention of disorder).
 
 The tension eased after deputy commissioner Sasikanth Senthil offered a compensation of Rs 5 lakh from the chief minister’s relief fund and a like amount in interim compensation. He assured the Hindu organization leaders that he would write to the government to increase the compensation. In another conciliatory measure, the official allowed the crowd to take out a procession for about 750 metres from GaneshKattetothecremation grounds under police supervision.
 
 The crowd that gathered demanded a ban on Popular Front of India and slammed CM Siddaramaiah for his minority-appeasing policy. Deepak was cremated at   as per Ramakshatriya community rites. The funeral was attended by MLC Ganesh Karnik, Bajrang Dal convener Sharan Pumpwell, VHP leader   and BJP leader Satyajit Surathkal among others.
 
 
