PATNA: One Vinod Kumar was kidnapped from   and   of Gopkita in the same village under the   area in   on December 3 last year. It was probably the first case of kidnapping for forced marriage in the state after a long time. 

 Vinod (26) is a junior manager at Bokaro Steel Plant in Jharkhand. A video of his forced marriage was shown on TV news channels on Tuesday.
 
 Vinod had reached Patna on December 3 to attend the marriage of his colleague Sanjeev Kumar at Islampur in Nalanda district. However, he was kidnapped by one Surendra Yadav, who called to Mokama on the pretext of meeting him and took him to Pandarak where he was forcibly married to Surendra’s sister allegedly at gunpoint.
 
 Vinod’s family lives in neighbouring Khusrupur area.
 
 The victim told TOI over phone that Surendra had befriended him and his brother Awadhesh Kumar during the illness of their father Saryu Prasad Yadav in Patna. Saryu died in May last year after remaining in coma for more than four months.
 
 “After reaching Patna, I received several calls from Surendra expressing his wish to meet him. I, along with my friend Prabhakar Kumar, decided to met him in Mokama before leaving for Islampur to attend the marriage of our friend in the evening on December 3,” Vinod said.
 
 “We were taken hostage after reaching Gopkita and Surendra and his family members thrashed us. One of his family members pointed a pistol at me and ordered to marry the girl,” Vinod said, adding he did not even know the girl’s name.
 
 “After my forced marriage, the girl’s family members kept me inside a room whole night. Next day, I contacted by brother who reached the village and contacted the police,” he said.
 
 Vinod also said Awadesh submitted a written complaint to Pandarak police station about the incident but police did not lodge any FIR against Surendra and his family members.
 
 “Instead police asked my family to manage things as the marriage was already solemnized,” he said. Vinod also said Surendra and his family members were threatening him and his family over phone and asking his family to accept the girl.
 
 Vinod said he tried to meet Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj thrice but could not. “I have written letters to the Chief Justice of Patna high court, Patna DM, NHRC, Patna SSP and ASP Barh for action, but to no avail,” he said.
 
 Patna (rural) SP Lalan Mohan Prasad said the matter came to his knowledge through some news channels. “I am looking into the matter and action will be taken against the accused persons,” he said.
 
 
