Bathinda: Faridkot additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Keshav Hingonia and AAP MLA from Kotkapura Kultar Singh Sandhwan had heated exchanges at the former’s office on Wednesday afternoon. Their verbal duel was caught on camera as the one-minute video of the incident went viral on social media.

 Sandhwan had gone to Hingonia’s officer to hand over a memorandum, demanding wages to persons working under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) when both got into a spat after the ADC told the MLA to leave his office.
 
 MLA Sandhwan announced to raise the matter before the privileges committee of assembly and hold a protest outside the deputy commissioner’s office on Thursday. On the other hand, Hingonia said he would raise the issue before the Punjab assembly speaker.
 
 Earlier on August 16, 2017, Congress MLA from Baghapurana Purana Darshan Singh Brar had accused Moga DC Dilraj Singh of insulting him and had raised the matter with privileges committee of the assembly which had recommended not putting the officer on public dealing posts for three months.
 
 MLA Sandhwan and his followers also raised slogans against the ADC in his office while Hingonia was leaving in a huff.
 
 The AAP MLA said, “I had gone to hand over a memorandum to the DC to release the wages of MGNREGS workers and inquire about irregularities in the implementation of scheme. As the DC was not available, I approached the ADC who did not prefer to rise from his chair to receive the memorandum and we had heated exchanges.”
 
 He alleged that the ADC did not know how to deal with public representatives. “I had to remind him that I am part of the government as like the chief minister. Now I will raise the matter before privileges committee of the assembly and will write to Lal Bahadur Shastri academy at Mussorrie to provide the IAS officer further training so that he may know how to deal with public representatives,” Sandhwan said.
 
 ADC Hingonia said, “The MLA started misbehaving with me and only then I asked him to leave. He threatened me. I will write to the speaker of the state assembly about it.”
 
 
