NEW DELHI: Kolkata Knight Riders’ loss to Sunrisers Hyderabad in the   Eliminator is a defeat that has been difficult to come to terms with, feels head coach  , who was confident of team’s chances of winning the   title for a third time. Kallis, writing for The Times Of India, stated that it was a match that KKR should have won, even as Sunrisers got the better of them to win the game by 14 runs and book a place in the final. 

 
 
 
 “A good night’s sleep can help with many ills and it can certainly ease the disappointment of a sporting defeat but it doesn’t change the fact that we lost a game we should have won. We lost it rather than Sunrisers won it,” Kallis, who scored over 15000 runs for South Africa, wrote.
 
 Kallis rued the circumstances under which KKR lost. They had the upper hand before Rashid Khan’s 10-ball 34 allowed Sunrisers a total of 174. Later, while chasing, KKR were again in control at 87/2, before losing their next four wickets for 31 runs that dented them severely in the final five overs. Young Shubman Gill tried his best but it just wasn’t enough for KKR.
 
 
 
 “It is a hard pill to swallow and the guys will struggle with it for a few more days yet. We had some pretty comprehensive wins in this year’s tournament but I’m not sure we dominated any game as much as we did this one – and we lost,” Kallis pointed out.
 
 “From a coaching perspective I sat in the dugout feeling confident and in control for 90 percent of the game – that’s how much I felt we dominated. So when you don’t win a game with that much possession then you probably have nobody to blame but yourselves.”
 
 The former South African cricketer, considered widely as the greatest allrounder of all-time, was however appreciative of the Sunrisers, particularly for not bucking under pressure and expressed delight at the way his team showed fortitude to perform well throughout the season and qualify for the Playoffs.
 
 “Having said that, for every action there is a reaction and it would be completely wrong not to give credit to the Sunrisers who hung in there for long periods under intense pressure and never gave up. They are a tenacious team with a terrific attitude and this wasn’t the first time they had won a game they seemed destined to lose,” added Kallis.
 
 “But it was still a successful campaign and tournament for the Knight Riders team and franchise and one that everyone can be very pleased about. There is an abundance of young talent which makes the future of the team look very bright indeed. We will be back stronger and wiser next year and ready to compete for another title – with smiles on our faces and supported by the best fans in the country, if not the world.”
 
