Your degree is not worth the paper it comes in, if you, during the 3-4 years of your  , do not hone the right skills that your potential employers might be looking for. Not to downgrade your hard work or minimize your accomplishments into an analogy, but this is true of the industry today. While a degree is a ticket to the job market, much to one’s dismay, it is as useless as a movie ticket after a movie. After all,   once said, “What is past is prologue.” All this brings us to one point — the right skills and the ability to sell oneself is key to landing in a job that pays, to say the least.
It’s placement time, and final-year students all over the city are hopeful of landing plum jobs. But this brings doubts and questions regarding their interviews. To help them clear their doubts and be 100% prepared for the process, we got career guidance speaker   to answer students’ queries:
 
 
 Money remains the biggest motivation if you want a job and not a career. But would you like to be in an accounting job playing with numbers while you do online searches for places you’d dreamt of traveling and documenting for a well-known travel magazine? Or would you like to keep dreaming about your passion as you kick away opportunities that come your way and never be able to at least travel to those places? The job market is a battleground and pushing away opportunities in the name of passion is something I personally don’t stand by. If you have not been successful at taking the first step towards your passion before you land a job, be sure to become passionate about the job, if success is what you’re aiming at. Let your passion be what you make a career of. You have two choices— take the job and think about buying your tickets after you save for a year. Or try the hard way and write an autobiography later.
 
 
 
 Making a name isn’t an overnight affair; it is a journey. The journey can be short or long, depending on how fast you run. Determine your destination. Equip yourself with real-time knowledge of what your industry expects of you and measure your adaptive performance to stay on top of the trend. Outrun your own performance targets and make sure your accomplishments are known and recognized. Start courting what you want to become from Day 1 of your college. The first step is simple — by the time you graduate, you should know how to introduce yourself and make yourself known to as many people you can in your community. You can only make a name for yourself if you make people want to talk to you again or remember your name at least. In a nutshell, you have 20 seconds to show a person what you have become in the last 20 years of your life. Be the purveyor of something revolutionary — inspire, aspire, lead and innovate.
 
 
 
 In India, one can easily yell away the difference between experience and learning — classrooms. It is unfortunate that for most students, university education in India doesn’t come with an experience. Young people are curious and thirsty for knowledge, so do not confine your knowledge to the classroom. While the thought of exams and the need for higher scores eats away most of us, urge yourself to question the rational and test the insane. Pursue knowledge beyond what your course demands. Tap your inner energy and try your hand at anything that provides an experience. Host an event and be the only arts student to debate with the science batch on singularity and the future of science. Urge your college to end the monotony of events that feed you with what you already know. Have an arts festival for your science counterparts. Try the unconventional and share ideas. Be the messenger of change and the rest shall follow.
 
 
 
 A résumé is as important as the interview. Every candidate who goes to an interview has a custom-made question paper for the interview ready. The difference is, you set your own question paper for the interview — your résumé. Every word you choose to write in your résumé is a prospective question from the interviewer. Your résumé is what recruiters identify you with. I have come across classmates who have copied hobbies, projects, strengths, weaknesses and even their father’s name in résumés! Have a well-designed résumé and know it well before you go for an interview. That’s the only way to know at least seven out of 10 general questions a recruiter might ask.
 
 
 
 Can you convince your recruiter about the change in interest? Are you going to portray yourself as a candidate that switches interests quickly? If you’ve not been hopping jobs regularly, all you need is the right skills to showcase your effciency in the new field you have chosen. Identify your transferable skills and understand what from your previous career might come in handy for the new career. Be ready to explain why and how your previous work experience will help your new career. Try doing courses away from your current career path that might help you in creating an image of a candidate that can help you be the jack of all trades. A recruiter will be convinced to hire an engineer who has a certification in digital marketing and media studies as their creative head. There are a number of platforms that provide you online certifications from prestigious universities.
 
 
 
 Yes, especially if they are in huge numbers. It is an effective cut-down process because of the parameters recruiter’s record during a group discussion. A group discussion helps the recruiter understand one’s ability to withstand peer pressure, communication skills, team building skills, motivational skills and presentation skills, to name a few. As much as GD looks like useless banter among people trying to overpower each other, the much-skilled recruiter is able to recognize potential employees through it.
 
 
 
 Your first job is as important as you think. It will probably decide your career for the long term. However passionate you are about pursuing a future, your first job is probably going to design your destiny for the rest of your career. A university fails at bridging the gap between learning and experience, and it’s probably your first job that’s going to give you all the experience you need to build a career. Learning on the job is the best backing you can have when you approach a future employer. So, be sure to have either a name or a challenging responsibility that can add brand value to your name in the future.
 
