KOLKATA: From Monday, Central   (CISF), which guards the airports across the country, will take charge of the security of Victoria Memorial Hall (VMH). Governor  , who is also the chairman of VMH’s Board of Trustee, will formally hand over the baton of security to CISF at 12 noon.

 However, the plan to hand over security responsibility of the Indian Museum — Asia’s oldest and biggest heritage treasure trove — to CISF has been postponed inordinately. Significantly, both the museums operate under the ministry of culture,   and the process for the CISF protection for the two museums was initiated at the same time. Indian Museum was supposed to have 57 CISF personnel.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 CISF, which was raised under the home ministry for industrial units, also protects National Museum, New Delhi and Salar Jung Museum, Hyderabad. From Monday, 113 fully-armed personnel will be deployed to keep an eye on the 64 acres sprawling campus, the iconic heritage structure and its priceless collections that draw 35 lakh visitors annually.
 
 “At any point of time, 30 CISF personnel will be present on the Victoria lawns. We are also overhauling the entire surveillance system and putting up iron-fencing along the perimeter of VMH. The VMH family is now expanded and we will bear the cost of armoured vehicles, firearms, surveillance equipment and accommodation and will also foot salary bill of Rs 7-Rs 8 crore,” said secretary and curator of  .
 
 In 2004, soon after the theft of Tagore’s Nobel medallion from Visva-Bharati and a fifth century Buddha bust from Indian Museum, environmentalist   had filed a PIL in Supreme Court questioning the security lapses. On February 15, 2015, a bench of Justice T S Thakur and Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel asked the Centre to take steps to strengthen security. There were initial hurdles regarding accommodation of the large security force, but with the culture ministry having been keen on early deployment, niggles were sorted out, said Sengupta.
 
 Rules say that a part of the deployment can stay in barracks on campus but since construction is not allowed inside heritage premises, the non-family staff duty quarters will be vacated and handed to CISF. The rest of the CISF personnel will be accommodated in special quarters of the BSNL and CPWD at Baishnabghata, Patuli and Santragachi, said a source.
 
