 This is a strange season for  . The   midfielder is probably playing his best football; troubling opponents, opening up defences and running into spaces.
 
  He’s been impressive with the dead ball too. Remember that corner-kick against Kerala Blasters which Edu Bedia headed into the net for a late match winner? Remember that mind-boggling through pass that left Kerala defence in tatters and allowed Ferran Corominas to complete his hat-trick?
  
  Yet, this is a season where for the first time Brandon hasn’t been able to score in 11 matches. A player who has scored goals for fun all his life – we’ve seen him do that since he was 13 – the goal-drought remains at the back of his mind but never unsettling.
  
  “It’s been long I know but the assists give me equal joy. Sometimes I too wonder how I’ve gone so long without (scoring) a goal. I know goals will come. If I score one, there will be more,” said Brandon, who has four assists in the Indian Super League.
  
  For long Goan football’s big hope of making it to Europe, Brandon has been pegged back by injuries. There were whispers that the midfielder couldn’t go through an entire season without missing games because of injuries.
  
  Those fears turned true when he went under the knife during his stint with Mohun Bagan, but since returning to the field, he has simply gone from strength to strength.
  
  “I feel at my best right now,” said the 23-year-old.
  
  “I am playing my best   at FC Goa. And for the first time since I trained in  , I am playing a style of football which I learned during my time there. Our coach (Sergio Lobera) wants us to play exactly the way I learnt at the academy in South Africa. It makes me feel good,” said Brandon.
  
  With such good form, Brandon is hoping another of his goal will be realised this season. He has represented the country with the U-13, U-14, U-16 and U-19s but, strangely, never quite represented India at the senior level. His eye-catching performances with Sporting Clube de Goa in 2015-16 attracted coach Stephen Constantine’s attention. He even made it to the national camp but didn’t last for more than a week.
  
  He is now wiser from that experience and hopes he will get another chance to prove himself.
  
  “I know I have to keep performing. I know if I continue like this, a national call will not be too far away,” he said.
  
  Given Constantine’s penchant for giving youngsters a chance – he’s handed debuts to 35 players in the last 35 months – and Brandon’s own form, there is hope.
