NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s adviser, retired IAS officer V K Jain, has resigned, days after his statement to the police on the alleged assault on chief secretary   by two AAP MLAs. 

 While Jain has cited “personal reasons”, sources said it would be difficult for him to continue in a post that requires a bond of trust between him and the CM. Jain has sent his resignation to the   and LG Anil Baijal, said sources, adding that   was not present when Jain went to deliver his resignation letter on Monday.
 
 Jain’s departure comes at a time when the tussle between the political executive and the bureaucracy in Delhi is out in the open with the latter continuing with only written channels of communication for most work other than critical meetings such as those for budget preparations. 
 
 On February 22, Jain told the police, “I got up from the meeting to go to the washroom. When I returned, I saw MLAs Amanatullah Khan and Prakash Jarwal were hitting the chief secretary, asking him why he did not work. They pushed him and then held his chin in their hand asking him to work. Suddenly his glasses fell.” In an earlier statement, Jain had said he went to the washroom and couldn’t say what happened during the meeting. 
 
 Jain’s brush with the AAP government started in June 2015 when he was posted as CEO of Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board. He came to the Delhi government from a posting in Doordarshan. Following his work on night shelters, he became a favourite of the top brass in the ruling dispensation and was one of the few officers who managed to end his stint in office without any tussle with the elected government as he retired in August 2017. In the first week of September, Jain was appointed the adviser to CM Kejriwal, a very   role that brought him into the limelight. 
 
 Jain was given the room that has always been used by the person holding the post of principal secretary to the CM. The last one in the role was Kerjiwal’s trusted aide, IAS officer Rajendra Kumar. However, six months into the job, Jain has resigned following probably the worst stalemate between the political executive and the bureaucracy.
 
 
