Aliens, villains and   prowled around, towering over the lesser mortals, as the fictional world of online games and comic books came alive at the second edition of Indian Championship of Cosplay, recently held in Saket. The competition was to find a champion who will represent India at the annual  . The event began with Fan   competition, that saw entry-level cosplayers dressed as  ,  , and other popular characters. The hunt for the champion started later in the evening, and saw the 10 finalists, chosen from Comic Cons held across the country, compete. They were judged on the basis of authenticity, technique, and the fit of the costume, along with an overall larger-than-life quality of their cosplay.

  
  Pracheta Banerjee, who came as Death Prophet from Dota 2
 
 The winner of the championship was Jeet Molankar, who was dressed as Reinhardt from Overwatch. "I am so happy to win this title. I love to make costumes and I invested a lot of effort, money and almost five months to prepare my winning costume. Now all that feel worth it. I am really excited for the Crown Championship in Chicago," he told us.
 
  
  Ramsankar Unnikrishan, dressed as Alphamon from Digimon
 
 Cosplayer Sameer Bundela from Mumbai, who was dressed as Malavestros from Court Of The Dead, won the Fan Favourite Award, thanks to maximum online votes.
 Though there was only one winner, the effort put in by all the finalists was quite visible. Pracheta Banerjee, who came as Death Prophet from Dota 2, told us, "It took me five-six months to make this costume when I was preparing for the Mumbai Comic Con. It takes me about four hours to get ready. I am an artist professionally, and cosplaying is my hobby. These costumes are quite heavy and expensive. This one cost me over Rs. 40,000, and is made of foam, latex, rexine and worbla, which is one of the most expensive materials used in cosplaying. My costume weighs about 15kg."
 
  
  Sana Khan, who was channeling Sarah Kerrigan from StarCraft 2
 
 Akshay Churi, who was dressed as   from Mobile Suit Gundam Unicorn, said "This costume weighs about 40 kg. The toughest part was to harness the wings. The whole weight of the costume is on my back. I had to work out to carry this!" He added, "I chose to be Sinanju despite the size of the costume, because I love the fact that though it’s a negative character, it still has principals, and is better than the hero."
 
  
  Sameer Bundela, who was dressed as Malavestros from Court Of The Dead, won the Fan Favourite Award
 
 Even though the cosplayers attempted to keep the costumes lightweight, they were all in the 15-45kg range. Sana Khan, who was channeling Sarah Kerrigan from StarCraft 2, said, "I have made the wings with PVC pipes, paper and bandages to keep the weight in control. Even then, three people are needed to carry it. Travelling with the costume is challenging. I have to dismantle the wings and tape them again every time I perform. They have motors fitted in to fold and unfold them as well." She added, "I knew while making the wings that they will be heavy and difficult to carry, but I am fan of the character, and the discomfort and hassle is a a part of cosplaying."
 Shahbaz Ahmad, who came as Terrorblade from Dota 2, said, "I took me about a month to make the first structure, then and another two months to finish the modifications. It weighs about 40kg and takes me two hours to put on."
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 --Aurushi.Goswami@timesgroup.com
 
 
  
 
