Pune: The Kalyani School recently celebrated the third episode of the ‘Mad About’ series. The topic of deliberation was ‘Health and Wellness’. The series is a platform where teachers, parents and students come together to spread awareness about issues concerning the society. “We live in a world, where we run after material treasures, forgetting that our body is the most important resource we possess. Looking after our health and wellness is the key to living a happy. Hence, we decided to take up this topic for our ‘Mad about’ series this year. We feel that instilling knowledge about health could have a lasting impact on the well-being of our students,” director Deeksha Kalyani said. Each class worked throughout the year on different aspects of health — physical, mental and spiritual. Their stalls displayed research work on how health can be improved with proper food, exercise, music and meditation. The students of Std IX selected organ donation as their subject of study. Through their work, they urged adults to sign up as organ donors. At the end of the day, the number of donors reached 72, which included the director and the principal too. A cultural programme was presented by students and teachers.  “We chose ‘Mad about Health and Wellness’ as the topic because it has so much significance in the lives of each one of us. Parents, children and teachers came together and contributed tirelessly to make this event a resounding success,” principal Nirmal Waddan said. Lexicon move towards digital literacy  As a part of ‘Sewa’, a community service programme in the CBSE curriculum, around 10 students of Std VIII from The Lexicon International School, Kalyaninagar, utilized their zero periods to impart computer skills to support staff. They were guided by their information and communications technology facilitator, Aarti Sharma.  Donation drive by students of Epiphany School The student council of Epiphany School donated blankets and food to the needy on Christmas. To celebrate the festival in a more meaningful way, they decided to spread joy among the needy. Food and money was donated voluntarily. The activity was held under the supervision of principal SS Kadam.