Two decades ago, devotees had to follow popular kathakaars like Morari Bapu or   Ramesh Oza’s itinerary if they wanted to attend a discourses and plan well in advance. Today, Morari Bapu’s   channel has 63,000 followers and Bhaishri’s Twitter handle has over 56,000 followers.

 The distance between religious sects and technology is narrowing by the day. In the last 10 years, all religions and sects have acquired an online presence by having websites, through social media or even by launching apps. 
 
 Bhaishri’s Sandipani Ashram was among the first to introduce IPTV (internet-protocol TV) with a live feed of his events.   of Sandipani said that it’s a step in sync with the times where the primary beneficiaries are the youth, who get updates through WhatsApp groups with videos and messages from Bhaishri’s teachings.
 
 In his doctoral study titled ‘Impact of Cyber Media on Hindu Religion Followers,’ Pranav Dave explored how online users are connected with religion. "We have a number of examples such as   (Daji) of   conducting an online dhyana shibir recently or major temples such as Somnath Temple, Ambaji Temple and   providing online darshans. The average number of visitors for darshan on these sites is more than 50 lakh a year," he said, adding that online donations to temples are also growing each year.
 
 Dave also gave the example of the ‘Krishna Run’ game, developed after inspiration from Vaishnavacharya Vrajrajkumar. "Games such as Angry Birds have anger as the base emotion even when we are not consciously aware of it. When the ‘Blue Whale Challenge’ was a global phenomenon, the game had Lord Krishna as the protagonist who ran and collected milk and makhkhan (butter) to gain energy and peacock feathers to go invisible. It engaged toddlers while also talking about culture," said Dave.
 
 Dakshesh Shah, general secretary of  , said that   has started a number of WhatsApp groups to connect with youth. "Today, the stress is on philosophy instead of religion and thus a number of questions are also posted by users, relating to their own lives," he said.
 
 BAPS was among the first to go online, with its website launched in 1997. Aksharvatsal Swami of BAPS said the sect also has a strong presence on Facebook and Twitter with over two lakh followers. "Through technology, we are not only able to provide darshan and religious discourse but also connect to devotees from across the globe. The 150 years of Akshar Deri at Gondal will have a live webcast where we believe the number of viewers will be more than the number present physically," he said.
 
 Jain monk Mitranand Sagar said that he has been using computers since 1998. "Everything has two facets – good and bad. A number of monks were apprehensive about technology but I believe that it’s the need of the day if we want to amplify our message about dharma," he said.
 
 
