Rajeev.KR@timesgroup.com
 
 KOZHIKODE: Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary (WWS) has earned the unique distinction of having zero pending wildlife compensation claims among the forest divisions and protected areas in state.
 
 
 The government has paid compensation to 743 victims of wildlife conflicts during the previous fiscal, including all the applications received till date in the current fiscal, in a bid to assuage the rising temper among people living in the fringe areas of the sanctuary, which is a hotbed of wildlife conflict. The forest department paid Rs 69 lakh as relief and the sanctuary is now left with a balance of over 16 lakh.
 
 “WWS has become the only protected area in   that has no pending wildlife compensation claims. Normally, at the end of each fiscal, we would be left with dues to the tune of Rs 30- 40 lakh. This year due to enhanced allocations from the government—following talks between forest minister and people’s representatives from the district—we have been able to clear all compensation claims,” said warden of Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary (WWS) NT  . WWS has paid compensation to 743 people, including 670 cases of crop damage, 54 cattle loss claims and 13 instances of damage to house and property among other losses. For the applications received after March 31, the department has been paying the revised compensation rates formulated by the government.
 
 Sajan said that the delay in payment had been a major concern for farmers which in turn had resulted in intense agitations against the department.
 
 President of   said that apart from prompt payment of compensation the department should also expedite voluntary relocation of people from 14 settlements that are ready to move out of their forest homes using the Rs 100-crore fund announced in the budget.
 
 Environmentalists said that the focus should be on implementing community-based and participatory mechanisms to address the human wildlife conflict. “Instead of paying compensation for crop loss, farmers should be encouraged to take over the responsibility of guarding their crops or putting up protection facilities with government paying an allowance for the same,”   added.
 
