Tirunelveli: A grand Annadhanam (serving of free food) will be organised to one lakh devotees at the Arulmigu Swami Nellaiappar and Arultharum Kanthimathi Ambal temple in the city on Friday as part of the kumbabishekam that is being held on the day after 14 years. Preparations for the grand full meal have been in full swing over the last few days. Cooking for the event began at 12 noon on Thursday, 22 hours before the serving is scheduled to begin. Around 300 cooks from the district began preparing the huge stoves and chopping vegetables among other important ground work after a briefing by officials of the Food Safety and Standards Act department on the dos and don’ts to be followed. “We have estimated that 12,000 kilograms of rice will be required to serve one lakh people. We also need 4,500 kilograms of different dals, several thousand kilograms of vegetables and oil among other items required to serve rice, sambar, aviyal, poriyal, kootu, buttermilk and payasam,” said a member of the Annadhanam committee. He added that over the last one week donations had poured in from more than 700 people in the form of rice bags, oil and other supplies as well as money. Cooking will continue till the last serving as rice and other items have to be served hot. Annadhanam would be held from 10 am to 5 pm or extended or reduced depending on the availability of food at the corporation exhibition ground opposite the main building of Tirunelveli Corporation. A huge shed that can accommodate 5,000 people at a time as well as barricades to regulate the crowd are being erected. The giant shed and pandhal for the Annadhanam have been arranged in 20 rows of 250 chairs per row to accommodate 5,000 people at a time. “We plan to undertake 20 servings to achieve the target of feeding one lakh people. Each round would take 15 to 20 minutes,” said another committee member. A separate entrance has been opened to help differently-abled people and the elderly to have food without waiting in long queues. Elaborate security arrangements have been made by the police to regulate the crowd for the Annadhanam and the kumbabishekam that will be held early in the morning.