NEW DELHI:   (AFI) and   (IOA) are sparring over the ‘late entries’ of long jumper  , high jumper   and 400m runner   to the   organisers. While   has contended that it received entries after the March 7 deadline to send the athletes’ names expired, the   has a mail trail in its records which seems to call the IOA’s bluff.

 
 
 
 On Friday, India’s chef-de-mission, Vikram Singh Sisodia, raised the issue of accepting the entries of Sreeshankar, Siddharth and Vijayakumari with the CWG organisers during the ‘Delegation Registration Meeting’ (DRM).
 
 It’s learnt that the organisers have assured Sisodia that they will look favourably into the matter. AFI has already sent the filled-up accreditation forms of all three track and field athletes to Sisodia. AFI is confident of their selection as the organisers had allocated 37 quota places to India for athletics, while the federation named a 31-member squad.
 
 Another point which Sisodia raised was that the sport’s world governing body IAAF’s rules say that the entries of athletes can be sent 15 days prior to the event. “Commonwealth Games Federation (CGF) also follows the IAAF’s rules. We don’t understand the logic behind sending the names one month before to the CWG organisers? The Federation Cup only got over on March 8,” the official said.
 
 However, that hasn’t stopped AFI and IOA from having a go at each other. According to an AFI insider, the events of Sreeshankar, Jauna Murmu and Vijayakumari got over on March 6. “We sent the first mail at 1pm and second mail at 3:29pm on March 7 to IOA requesting them to include these three names. Within three minutes, at 3:32pm, we got a mail from the IOA that it would be done. This shows that we met the deadline,” the official informed.
 
 “Siddharth’s event got over on the evening of March 7, so we sent his entry on March 8 afternoon. However, the list shared by IOA doesn’t have the names of these three athletes,” the official added.
 
 An IOA official reacted saying, “The athletics contingent was announced only on March 10 after the deadline had expired. So, how could we have included the names?”
 
 
