Nagpur: The state Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), which filed the second charge-sheet on Thursday in the investigations into tenders awarded for Gosikhurd dam project, has a long way to go before its work will be completed.

 The ACB’s Nagpur unit, which began investigations in March 2015 following a PIL, still has to finish preliminary inquiry into 32 of the 40 tenders it had taken up for the probe. Sources say no definite time frame can be fixed for the job.
 
 So far eight first information reports (FIRs) have been registered. Out of these, charge sheets have been submitted before a special court in two cases. The tenders were granted during the Congress-NCP regime, with many granted when NCP stalwart Ajit Pawar, also former deputy chief minister, held the water resources ministry.
 
 Currently, nine officers of the ACB are investigating the remaining 32 tenders. Based on their report, FIRs could be registered. An FIR is confirmation of starting an investigation under the concerned provisions of law. After that, the charge sheet follows. 
 
 Normally, the charge sheet has to be filed in the court within six months of the FIR, but extensions are usual. This has happened in the irrigation case too.
 
 The first FIR was registered against private contractor firm M/s FA Construction and some VIDC officials in February 2016. The charge sheet was submitted in the court in September 2017. The second FIR was registered in April 2016, for which the charge sheet was filed only on January 9, 2018. 
 
 This indicates the time it takes to complete the job. Out of the total eight FIRs, investigations are at an advanced stage in two of the cases. These are the FIRs filed against Mumbai firm M/s Hindustan Construction, and a joint venture (JV) between M/s Srinivasa Construction and M/s Balirami Reddy and Company. M/s Srinivasa Construction has Rama Rao, a TDP MLA from Telangana, as its director.
 
 “Investigation has gone beyond six months, so technically it can be considered a pending case. The work is at an advanced stage, yet the date when charge sheet can be submitted is a million dollar question. First the investigation following the FIR has to be approved by the higher ups,” said sources. The staff is already burdened with routine work, which includes cases of officials caught red-handed in bribery traps. 
 
 Last month, four FIRs were filed in this case. As the NCP-Congress combine had planned a rally against the government during state assembly’s winter session, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis responded by saying that government may fire another salvo in the irrigation case. There was a buzz that FIRs may be registered against bigwigs in the opposition.
 
 However, the FIRs registered on December 12 included VIDC officials, Rama Rao, and an official M/s MG Bhangadia Construction, a firm which was headed by sitting BJP MLC Mitesh Bhangadia. Sanjay Kolhapurkar, a former officer on special duty (OSD) with union surface transport minister Nitin Gadkari, was also booked.
 
 Investigations have just begun in these four FIRs, a source said. In the meantime, Arun Sampat, a former VIDC contractor, who first came up with RTI papers on alleged irregularities in the tenders, said so far none of the big contractors have been targeted.
 
 In a letter emailed to the Superintendent of Police (ACB), Sampat has named a prominent contractor saying there has been no FIR against him so far. Sampat said even Fadnavis, who leveraged the irrigation issue during elections, has now sidelined him due to his connections with the contractor.
 
 ACB sources said the team is conducting inquiries into the tenders and merely naming any person cannot be the basis of a probe.
 
 
