BHOPAL: Putting to rest speculations, Madhya Pradesh chief minister   is set to expand and reshuffle his cabinet on Saturday. The expansion is likely to see the induction of three new faces in Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s team, which has 20 ministers of the cabinet and nine of minister of state rank. A few ministers may face the axe over poor health or performance.

 Sources in the chief minister’s office said the expansion is likely to be held at Raj Bhawan at 9.30 am.
 
 Sources said names doing rounds for the the cabinet seats include Balkrishna Patidar, senior Patidar leader, who is also a member of MP Krishi Upaj Mandi and MLA from Khargone,  , former MoS and MLA from Gwalior South and Jalim Singh Patel (aka Munna Bhaiyya), a senior OBC leader and MLA from Narsinghpur. 
 
 Names of Gopilal Jatav from Ashoknagar, Sudershan Gupta from Indore-1,Yashpal Singh Sisodia from Mandsaur, Ranjana Baghel from Manawar (Dhar), Mahendra Hardia from Indore-5 and Ramesh Mendola from Indore-2 are also doing rounds among the probables’, though not confirmed. 
 
 The cabinet expansion has been pending for a year now and is being viewed as an exercise aimed at balancing caste equation as the state is slated to go to assembly polls by this year-end. Chouhan had dropped enough hints in the past about inducting new faces into his cabinet which, at present, can accommodate six ministers with the upper limit being 35 as per the Constitutional provisions.
 
 “Only eight months are left for the assembly elections and the cabinet expansion would help the ruling party to balance equation in some of the Congress-dominated areas. This is purely a political rejig,” said highly-placed sources in the state BJP.
 
 BJP state in-charge and Rajya Sabha member Vinay Sahasrabuddhe and Lok Sabha member from Damoh, Prahlad Patel are expected to reach   on Friday night to attend the expansion. When asked about the expansion, BJP state president Nandkumar Singh Chauhan said it was long due.
 
 “The cabinet expansion was due for long. It was about to happen,” Nandkumar told reporters after his brief meetings with chief minister Chouhan and Governor Anandiben Patel on Friday.
 
 Though the government is yet to officially confirm, a team of senior officers, including divisional commissioner Ajatshatru Shrivastava and IG police Jaideep Prasad visited Raj Bhawan on Friday afternoon to take stock of preparations for the proposed programme — indicating the cabinet expansion is on the cards. Sources said only 300 dignitaries have been invited.
 
 Unconfirmed sources said speculations were also rife a few ministers may be dropped on the basis of performance and health ground. During his last visit, BJP president Amit Shah had asked to accommodate MLAs in the state cabinet from areas where Congress leaders held sway. Swatantra Dev Singh, Uttar Pradesh MoS for transport, who had been assigned the duty to tour these areas suggested to include MLAs from Chhindwara, Guna and Jhabua-Ratlam districts in the cabinet. The recent expansion may not include any of the names from these areas, said sources.
 
 
