KOLKATA: Kazi   and his wife   had barely stepped out of the airport when a thick-set man approached them. “Sir, luxury taxi lagbe? Ja bhara, tar cheye kom e niye jabo. (Sir, do you want luxury cab? I will give you aride at a fare lower than the official one),” he said, taking over the luggage trolley even before the duo could react. The elderly couple fit the man’s passenger profile. They had just arrived from   and looked undecided.

 
  
 
  “We have to go to a hotel on   Road,” said Hussain, somewhat relieved at the apparent good fortune of bumping into a cab driver instead of having to search for one. “My car is right there. It will cost you merely Rs 900, less than what you would have to pay if you walked over to that booth,” the driver said, pointing to a pre-paid booth that operated luxury cabs. The couple would have been taken for a ride but for a good Samaritan, who stepped in. He booked an app cab for the couple, an AC sedan, that cost them Rs 353. Had they taken a non-AC metered taxi from the pre-paid booth, they would have had to pay Rs 282.
 
 The driver, Ratan, who missed the opportunity to fleece the two, grumbled for a minute before heading to the exit gate. In no time, he was off, whistling at the wheel, as he drove a Naga woman to Howrah station for Rs 900. Ratan is among a gang of over 50 taxi touts that operate with impunity at Kolkata airport. All of them have perfected the art of profiling passengers to pick out the vulnerable— mostly foreigners and first-timers —to fleece them, charging fourfive times the fare during the day and eight to 10 times at night. “These men sully the impression of the city. A cab driver is the first point of interface for any visitor,” said Akhtar, shocked at how much Ratan had intended to overcharge.
 
 Worse, just about everyone — airport officials, CISF and local cops— is aware of the racket but none willing to act. The issue has been raised at airport advisory committee meetings for years but to no avail. “Taxi touts are typical to Kolkata. Visitors from Bangladesh and the Northeast are particularly vulnerable during the day, while foreigners are the target at night,” an airline official said. A foreign carrier official said it was ashame no one addressed it.
 
 While AAI and CISF passed the buck on the police, cops looked the other way. Raids are few and far between to effectively root out the menace.   officers cited personnel shortage as the reason for the failure to curb the menace. “We conduct drives but AAI and CISF should also alert us,” said an officer.
 
 TOI on Saturday spotted at least five touts outside the arrival terminal. The fares being quoted were Rs 850-900 to Esplanade or Howrah and Rs 1,000-1,500 to Dakshineshwar. One of the touts, Sanjay, guided a TOI correspondent to a red Tata Indigo, with a private number plate, promising a hassle-free ride to Esplande for Rs 900. “Every day, except when theCM or the governor is at the airport, 35-40 white cabs are parked at two places: before Gate 1A and between gates 4B and 5A. This, no-parking despite notices,” a metered cab driver said.
 
 The nexus has a wide web. A pre-paid booth, with Helpline Transport & Car Parking Cooperative Society Ltd on it, has no fare chart on display. The man at the booth told TOI a trip to New Market would cost Rs 550 in a non-AC vehicle and Rs 780 in an AC car, nearly twice prepaid metered cab fares. “We charge two-way fares from the airport,” said the operator. The luxury tag is a misnomer as they offer regular vehicles.
 
 Times View
 
 Touts, waiting to pounce on visitors and fleece them, right at the entry point to the city is not a great advertisement for Kolkata. The authorities should clean up the area immediately.
 
 
