INDORE: The collector weekly public hearing on Tuesday received an application of bringing all temples in the district under collector’s control for overall development of religious structure and upliftment of needy people.

 
 “There are over 1000 temples, including 92 Jain temples, wherein people donate money. Apart from systematic development of religious structures, the   can be used in development of people of weaker sections,” said applicant Deepak Kasliwal, while handing over a memorandum to collector Nishant  .
 
 He said that a collector is administrator of religious trust and endowments department and can use a temple’s income in betterment of the society.
 
 “Hardly, 10 per cent of the total temples in the district send records of income and expenditure to collector. Recently, SDM Malharganj has been appointed as receiver of Shri Shantinath Digambar Jain 20 Panthi Mandir, and in the same way other temples can be brought under direct monitoring of collector further to remove irregularities, if any, regarding expenditure of the temple’s income,” Kasliwal said.
 
 Warwade assured Kasliwal of issuing notices to all the temples and religious organisations, which are not furnishing information of their income and expenditure.
 
 In the public hearing, Vishnupuri Main residents approached senior administrative officials with a complaint against opening of hostels in their area by violation of rules.
 
 “Right under the nose of administration, police and civic body, many hostels has come up in Bhawarkuan area by violating the rules. A residential apartment, where maximum 15-20 people can live, has been converted into hostel and upto 100 students are living there. Residents in the area are facing many problems, including shortage of water and chocking of drainage lines,” one of agitating residents   said.
 
 ADM Kailash Wankhede said that with the help of IMC and officials of other department concerned a guideline for opening hostel will soon be prepared.
 
 Several residents of Palada Colony also reached the collectorate and urged administrative officials to solve problem of water shortage in the area. The officials concerned have promised them to look into the matter.
 
 
