PATNA: State assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Chaudhary and his predecessor   were among thousands of people who called on chief minister (CM)   at his official residence on Monday to extend New Year greetings to him.

 The state information and public relations department (IPRD) also organised a brief function at the CM’s official residence to release the government’s Bihar Diary 2018 and the Calendar 2018. Assembly Speaker Chaudhary, Bihar legislative council ex-chairman Awadhesh Narayan Singh, CM’s secretary   and IPRD director Anupam Kumar also participated in the function.
 
 The CM’s official residence also saw a bevy of notables and thousands of other persons (youths, party workers, functionaries and women) who arrived to give him New Year greetings.
 
 The CM said the state government would strive to achieve all-round development of the state by ensuring participation of all sections of society.
 
 Those who wished the CM and also presented bouquets and garlands to him on the New Year Day included ministers Rajiv Ranjan Singh, Vinod Narayan Jha, Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma and Pashupati Kumar Paras. Legislators Shyam Rajak (MLA),   (MLC) and other JD(U) functionaries also wished the CM.
 
 Among the visitors were also ex-chief secretary Ashok Kumar Sinha, state election commissioner A K Chouhan, state disaster management authority chairman Vyasji, ex-advocate general Ram Balak Mahto, principal secretaries and secretaries of various departments and senior police officials.
 
 An IPRD communiqué said Bihar Diary 2018 and Calendar 2018, which were released by the CM, had salient features that made it distinctive from the past. The restricted and public holidays had been painted in red and green colours.
 
 The state government’s programmes for every month of the calendar have also been written separately. The campaign against child marriage and dowry would be held in January, followed by Samrat Ashok Convention Kendra function in February, Champaran Satyagrah centenary function in March, Veer Kuer Singh Vijayotsav in April and women’s empowerment programme in May. 
 
 The Eid celebrations will be held in June, disaster management programme in July, Shravani Mela in August, Bihar Sangrahalaya function in September, Durga Puja in October, Chhath in November and   function in December.
 
 
