When Noida singer   was called for the dubbing of a song by composer   last year, the 24-year-old assumed it was another in the long line of scratches she has recorded. “In Bollywood, singers often record a large number of scratch versions and none of them eventually make it to the album. I didn’t even know which movie or album I was recording for but I had heard of Vishal’s work in the south and wanted to work with him,” Sharvi tells us. It was only last month that Sharvi learnt that the song she recorded almost a year ago would be her Bollywood playback debut. She elaborates, “I did not know for sure till I signed the contract, but I was informed it was a   film, and I googled and found out that she was making 'Veere Di Wedding'. That’s how I got to know that my song would be in that film’s album.”
Sharvi is one of the singers to have lent her voice for the film’s track 'Veere Veere' and the young singer says that the fact that she is now a playback singer hasn’t sunk in yet. “I have been doing jingles and stage shows for the last two years, so this came as a surprise. The reaction to the track has been crazy. I have been getting so many calls and texts that it has been one crazy ride. What seems most amazing is that I cannot believe that I have given playback for   and   in my first song,” says Sharvi.
  
  Sharvi has sung 'Veere Veere' in the film 'Veere The Wedding'
 
 Sharvi was born and brought up in Noida’s Sector 14A. She did her schooling from  , before pursuing graduation from DU’s  . Two years ago, she moved base to Mumbai to pursue her singing career, but her family still stays in Noida. Her singing journey has seen a number of ups and downs over the years. Just over three years ago, she was diagnosed with a throat infection and told she would never sing again. However, not only did she return to singing within a year, she even went on to win the second season of the reality show 'The Stage'.
 
  
  
 Since her days at Somerville School, Sharvi has sung mostly English pop and rock tracks, which is why her debut in Hindi playback has take some of her friends and fans by surprise. However, she clarifies, “People confuse genre with language. Hindi music also has rock, pop, and all other genres these days. It’s not like Hindi music is a plain genre in itself. Yes, I like certain kind of music, but I just want to give my 100% and do all kinds of work.” However, her proficiency in English singing meant that even her family wasn’t fully convinced if she was cut out for Hindi film songs. She recounts, “Over the last two years, when several of my Hindi scratch versions did not get picked up in films, my father would advise, ‘Beta aap English hi gao. Woh aapko suit karta hai’.” But her Bollywood debut has meant that she has finally managed to get her father to listen and appreciate her songs. “My father always followed my music but English songs aren’t exactly his favourites. But when he heard 'Veere Veere', he turned to my mother and said, ‘Arey waah, yeh toh ab achha gaane lagi hai’,” Sharvi tells us with a laugh.
 
