LUCKNOW: Riding a   Coaster and carrying Rs 1akh currency, a bagful of dates, almonds and cutters is how the batch of six Lashkar-e-Taiba (Let) terrorists reached   this March to lay a siege. 

 The   ( ) has managed to unravel the infiltration route of LeT fidayeens from   in Pakistan to breach LoC. It has made the revelations after interrogating Zaibullah, the 20-year-old lone survivor of the six-member fidayeen squad caught during the anti-terror operation in Kupwara on March 20. All his associates were killed in the operation.
 
 Their route included halts at two locations - Dudhniyal and Tezia - in PoK, LoC at Sarbal in Indian side and four areas near Indian Army posts till forest areas of Tushan Bala Jugtiyal and Halmatpora in Kupwara.
 
 "After completion of the last leg of training, Huzefa (head of LeT training) selected six of us for the launch on March 2 this year. We were given AK-47s, 1kg almonds and dates, five bottles of honey, some 20 chapatis and Rs 1 lakh in Indian currency by Kasim Bhai, the son of Zakir-ur-Rehman Lakhvi," Zaibullah has told NIA officials.   is the operational commander of LeT and mastermind of 26/11 Mumbai attack.
 
 They were first taken in a Toyota Coaster, owned by Lakhvi's son, from Muzaffarabad to Indian Army post near Sarwal. "It took us two days to reach the LoC. On the same night, we cut the LoC fencing with cutters. There were five people who came for our help and they left us at the LoC. Then we started onwards journey with the help of a GPS till we reached the Indian Army post Ding," Zaibullah has revealed.
 
 According to Zaibullah's confession, the terrorists used dense forests of Kupwara as hideout for 15 days while stationing in Indian Army post Bella. His disclosure says some local Kashmiris helped them to procure ration and other basic amenities.
 
 "On March 12 evening, we reached the house of Altaf and Bila. Our group leader Wakas paid them Rs 13,000 to buy dal, biscuits, plates, utensils and milk powder. We stayed there for six days. On March 18, we moved to the next village, Fateh Khan, where villagers initially denied us to stay. However, one house-owner gave us shelter and food," Zaibullah tells NIA officials.
 
 
