KOLKATA: Two class XII students emerged as the   who was allegedly molested and whisked away in a car at Prince Anwar Shah Road Connector while returning from a New Year’s Eve party early on Monday.

 The duo —   Dey (19) and   Tiwari (18) — were on their way to a friend’s place and had stopped at the   crossing when they spotted the woman arguing with the car driver when the latter dragged her inside the car and sped towards Haltu. 
 
 The duo immediately gave a chase on their bike. They managed to stop the car and rescue the woman. However, as they tried to get the middle-aged car driver out of the vehicle, some local youths intervened and he managed to flee in his vehicle.
 
 “When we saw the woman being taken away, we did not think twice to give a chase. We stopped the car and would have handed the driver over to the police had the local youths not intervened,” Prosenjit, a resident of Garia, said.
 
 His friend Adarsh, who was riding pillion during the incident, said he held on to the man for a long time before the local youths separated them. “We tried to tell them that the man was at fault, but they did not listen to us. The man took advantage of the situation and fled,” said Adarsh, a Sonarpur resident.
 
 The duo then called the woman’s husband, who runs an event management company, from their cellphone and took her to Jadavpur police station and asked her husband to meet them there. Prosenjit and Adarsh even took the cops to the spot and searched the area with them for over an hour, but couldn’t spot the car.
 
 Later the Jadavpur police guided them to Garfa police station where a case was registered. “We reached home around 5am and had our New Year Eve celebrations cut short. But it doesn’t matter. We are happy to have been able to rescue the woman in time,” Prosenjit said.
 
 The woman’s husband thanked the two boys for their help. “I am new to the city and don’t know much about its roads. When the man pulled my wife inside the car, I gave chase. However, I lost them as they took a sharp turn into a lane. I ended up in a different alley with a dead end. I was lost when I got a call. It was my wife saying she was rescued by two boys,” he told TOI on Tuesday. 
 
 “They came like angels in our distress and we are thankful to them,” he added.
 
 On Tuesday, the husband accompanied the policemen to the spot and they spoke to a number of people to look for clues. Cops even showed the   footage from a nearby camera to the husband to identify the car. “I could identify the car. Its number too was not visible,” he said.
 
 Probing the incident, additional commissioner of police (crime) Vishal Garg said, “The woman had mentioned a registration number, but that turned out to be wrong. We are scanning CCTV footage from the area to locate the car and its owner. We are also corroborating the statements of the witnesses to the sequence of events as mentioned by the woman.”
 
 
