NEW DELHI:   has been on the wrestling scene for close to two decades, but never had he felt such intense pressure to secure a medal. The historic bronze and silver at the Olympics and the gold at previous editions of the   were more about proving to himself that he could still compete with the best. His age-defying gold on Thursday in the CWG, however, was more a fight to prove to the outside world that he was still a potent force, coming as it did in the wake of the Rio Olympics selection controversy.

 
 The divided wrestling community, after all, declared him a “villain” in the   dope scandal. Since July 24, 2016, when news first broke of Narsingh failing the dope test for a banned substance, there have only been conspiracy theories swirling around Sushil’s involvement in the case, though nothing concrete as emerged yet. The   (CBI) is handling the case and once it completes its probe, the truth will come out. For many in the wrestling fraternity, though,   has already been branded ‘guilty’. The Narsingh saga also put an end to his longstanding friendship with fellow wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt.
 
 After the controversy, Sushil confined himself to the Chhatrasal stadium, training with his group of loyal sparring partners, coaches and support staff.
 
 Sushil might say after his Gold Coast triumph that “it was another period of life and this is another period of life”. The truth is he was never able to distance himself from the Rio selection drama. He knew the only way to find solace and, silence his critics somewhat, was a gold standard performance in Gold Coast, which he produced by demolishing his opponent in a mere 80 seconds.
 
 Sushil, one of India’s most celebrated sportsmen, returned to competitive wrestling in December last year after a hiatus of 3 years since securing his second CWG title at Glasgow in 2014. Amidst all the mud-slinging, Sushil continued training at the Chhatrasal stadium and in Georgia. He wasn’t entitled for the TOPS funding, the Rs 50,000 monthly allowance or allowed to join the national camp. All of it couldn’t stop Sushil from bagging his third yellow metal in a row.
 
