BENGALURU :   Road-SP Road, the city's hardware hub in the central business district, which generates crores of rupees in revenue for the exchequer, is getting clogged with sewage water. 
But what is more worrying is the fact that the Bengaluru Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) has done nothing in the last four months despite having received Rs 38 lakh towards repairing and replacing the drainage network in the area.
 
 Both the roads have become pedestrian unfriendly as they are covered in sludge and stink. Ironically, both the stretches are barely 500 metres away from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) headquarters. According to  , secretary of the Bangalore Electronic Dealers' Association, there are approximately 1,000 traders on SP Road alone, which is next to SJP Road, and the revenue generated here is around Rs 100 crore per month.
 
  "But the manholes and drains overflow, and we have to walk through drain water. There are buyers who come from across the country and southeast Asia and this paints a very sorry picture," he said. Not repairing the drain has resulted in sewage water overflowing on to the roads and accumulating where people walk, park and stand. 
 
 P Dheeru Lal, proprietor of a store on  , says the persistent smell and overflowing sewage are affecting sales. "There is no place to walk as there is no pavement. They cleaned the drains three-four months ago, which was after a year, but left them open. There's no accountability," he said.
 Due to the mess on the roads and lack of alternative parking, some shop owners refuse to drive to their place of work. "We have to walk through water to enter our shops. I sometimes take an Uber or get a drop to my workplace so that I don't have to park in sludge," said  , a shop owner.
 
 'There's money, but no action' 
 
 Prathibha Dhanraj, corporator of ward No. 119, says the problem is an age-old one and letters have been written to the BWSSB chairman regarding the same. "We are getting sewage water from Mysore Bank Circle, Cubbonpet, Thigalarpet and Nagarpeth. Also, a major pipe needs to be replaced between   and Shivajinagar," she said. 
 
 Nandish Kumar, assistant engineer, BWSSB, however, had no explanation for the delay. "We have to cut the road and place a new line. We received the money months ago, but work is yet to start. We will start work within a week," he said.
  
  
