MUMBAI: A day after he sent Aurangabad   commissioner Yashaswi Yadav on leave, Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis shunted out Aurangabad   commissioner Deepak Muglikar and his Kalyan-Dombivli counterpart  .

 Muglikar, an IAS officer of the 2006 batch, has been given an insignificant assignment; he will be secretary of development for Marathwada. On the other hand, Velrasu, an IAS officer of the 2002 batch, has secured a plum assignment; he will be joint managing director, Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRC). Fisheries   G M Bodkhe will replace him. Significantly, both Muglikar and Velrasu did not complete even a year of their respective assignments.
 
 According to reports, Muglikar was abruptly shifted for his “failure” to tackle a row over dumping of garbage in   city while Velrasu was transferred following stringent remarks of senior BJP leader and Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari. 
 
 A week ago, Gadkari had said that Dombivli was the worst township he had seen in his life. Senior officials, though, alleged that Velrasu was shifted because he took on the powerful builder lobby in the Kalyan-Dombivli belt.
 
 On Thursday, during a debate on the state of affairs in Aurangabad, assembly speaker Haribhau Bagde and opposition members led by Ajit Pawar had demanded suspension of both Yadav and Muglikar. Following intense sloganeering over the demand, the assembly was adjourned on five occasions. Normalcy was restored only after Fadnavis assured the house that Yadav would be sent on leave. On March 7, when residents opposed garbage vehicles in the township, police stepped in and resorted to lathi charge and dragged people from their homes and beat them. There were allegations that Muglikar made no efforts to take steps for garbage disposal.
 
 In Kalyan-Dombivli, too, residents were unhappy over the failure of the administration to dispose of garbage. Shiv Sena had threatened an indefinite agitation from March 19.
 
 Meanwhile, joint secretary (labour) Arun Vindhale has been posted as fisheries commissioner, Ulhas Nagar municipal commissioner Rajendra Nimbalkar as additional commissioner, Pune Municipal Corporation, and G B Patil Patil has replaced Nimbalkar.
 
 
