GURUGRAM: For Sanjay Ruhela, a private firm employee, buying an independent floor in the upmarket Suncity   in Sector 54, has become a nightmare. He is unable to get the property he bought in 2001 registered in his name.

 Ruhela said, “At the time of selling it, the   said registry won’t be an issue because there was no law yet on independent floors. But 17 years later, its not registered, as the law on registering independent floors, which came up in March 2009, said such property built over a plot less than 180 sq yd in area can’t be registered.” He continued, “Since I can’t get it registered in my name, I can’t even sell it or get a loan against it.”
 
 Ruhela is among 400 independent floor owners in the township who have been denied registration of their property because of the clause. The   floors are built over 161 sq yd plots. The RWA has now written to the CM Window, requesting change in policy. 
 
 Another owner, Sarla Nandal, said the chief minister should make a provision for registration of these independent floors, as around 400 families are suffering due to the negligence of the developer and lack of provision for registration of independent floors. “I bought my flat in 2005. Real estate prices were rising then, and I had thought I could sell it and buy a bigger house later. But as registration did not happen, the property has become unsaleable and owners are uncertain about the future,” she said.
 
 The general secretary of Suncity RWA, VMK Singh, told TOI, “What I don’t understand is why the builder didn’t raise the issue when the law was being promulgated? It’s complete negligence on part of the builder. We want to file an FIR against the firm,” he added. He further said a complaint has been filed in this regard at the CM Window, but the department is yet to hear the complaint. “When we contacted the senior town planner, he said the date of hearing is April 21, but we didn’t get any subsequent intimation,” he said.
 
 DTP (planning) R S Bathh said a similar case has come to light in Orchid township, for which the department has already written to higher officials of department of town and country planning in Chandigarh, to seek clarification. As of now, registration of floors of less than prescribed area can’t be done as per policy, he added. Despite several attempts by TOI, Suncity spokesperson could not be contacted for comment.
 
 
