CHENNAI: A unique initiative by the Chennai division of   to regulate unauthorised passengers in reserved coaches has been ‘temporarily disbanded’ after a meeting with the sole recognised employees’ union,   (SRMU), on Tuesday.

 The Chennai division had brought in a ‘culture squad’ in November – a 14-member team specifically tasked to deboard passengers travelling without reservation from   to eastern and western parts of India. These are the trains in which SR has failed to keep a check on passengers travelling without valid tickets and they, in turn, encroach on the reserved coaches, causing problems to bona fide passengers.
 
 The squad was also responsible for cracking down on railway employees travelling illegally in suburban trains – especially in first-class coaches – by carrying union cards to ‘bully’ regular commuters.
 
 The team did not have powers to collect fines, but it had brought in a change in the ‘culture’ by directing the unauthorised passengers and employees to disembark and board the next train. It was a major success, with the divisional railway manager’s (DRM) Twitter handle acknowledging a ‘massive response’ to the scheme. 
 
 Sources said SRMU objected to the   in a meeting on Tuesday. “Many trains are not manned by TTEs. Priority should be given to these squads, as per railway board orders,” said SRMU divisional secretary Paul Maxwell Johnson. 
 
 Immediately after the meeting, verbal orders were issued to   the squad, sources said. Some have even been asked to go on leave. 
 
 Chennai DRM Naveen Gulati told TOI that the scheme was being reviewed. “There are too many squads. There was nothing technically defined about this squad,” he said. When asked if it was due to SRMU’s pressure following a crackdown on railway employees travelling without valid tickets, he said that all squads should penalise unauthorised passengers. “Why only the culture squad, all squads should bring in that culture. We will learn from this experience and develop it in all squads,” he said.
 
 
