JAIPUR: Be it the character of   in Aamir Khan’s famous film ‘Lagaan’ or Jinnah in Ketan Mehta’s film ‘Sardar’,   enacted them with élan. The actor died on Sunday morning following prolonged illness at his rented house in Jaipur. Vyas worked in over 60 films and also had his stints in regional cinema, television and theatre. 

 He had to take a break from acting in the year 2008 when he collapsed in a hotel room in Gujarat. He also got a paralytic attack and since then he was bed-ridden and had multiple problems. Later on March 21, 2013, he was admitted in ICU of SMS Hospital and was discharged on April 2, 2013. 
 
 However, Bhuvan(character played by   in ‘Lagaan’) who saved the team Lagaan also came as a saviour for Ishwar Kaka (character played by Shrivallabh Vyas in the same movie) and his family. 
 
 Close friends and family members on Sunday recalled how actor Aamir Khan supported Shrivallabh financially. “He used to send money to his family on and off and also made a visit at his house during his Jaipur visit,” recalled Eshwar Mathur, a theatre artist who retired from Department of Information and Public Relations(DIPR). 
 
 Shrivallabh’s popular films include Sarfarosh, Aan: Men at Work and Shool. The actor’s wife Shobha had always maintained that Aamir Khan, Irrfan Khan and   helped the family financially but the producers never came up with financial help. 
 
 Not many know that Aamir Khan was looking after medical expenses and other expenses of the family. “It all started when Shoba ji (Shrivallabh’s wife) texted Aamir Khan about his hospitalization while Khan was shooting in the US. Since then Khan was in touch with the family and always helped him,” said a close relative of the actor. 
 
 “He was born in Jaipur and brought up in Jaisalmer. After his accident the family moved to Jaipur for his treatment,” said Shyam Acharya, a close relative of the actor while talking to TOI. 
 
 Shrivallabh is survived by his wife Shobha and two daughters. His funeral will take place at the Purani Chungi situated cremation ground on Monday.
 
 
