GURUGRAM: Five persons, including a woman, were killed in a collision involving a  , a   and a   on the Gurgaon-Farrukhnagar highway on Friday evening. 

 Three members of a family, who were travelling back to the city in a car from their village after   celebrations, and two persons on the bike died in the accident. The truck driver fled the spot and police are looking for him.
 
 A family of six had gone to Shadipur in Delhi for Holi celebrations and was returning to Bhondsi in Gurgaon in a WagonR when a canter came from the opposite side and crashed into their car on the Pataudi Road, a little before Jamalpur Chowk, around 7pm on Friday. 
 
 The truck continued to drag the car for a few metres before it finally stopped. Police said that according to eye witnesses, a bike with two riders coming from the Pataudi side was also hit during the accident. 
 
 The bikers, Karan Singh(25) and Bintu (26) from Malaheri village in Rewari, used to work with a private company in Gurgaon and were killed on their way back from Rewari.
 
 Police said Rakesh, who was driving the car, his brother Sunil, and Sunil’s wife Usha were killed in the accident. Rakesh’s wife Jyoti (who is also Usha’s sister), along with their two children Prince (6) and Yansh (7), were injured in the accident but are now stable. 
 
 “We don’t have reports on what treatment they underwent but were informed that they are out of danger,” the investigating officer said. According to police, Rakesh, Sunil, Usha and Jyoti used to work as daily wage labourers in the city.
 
 Jyoti told the cops that the truck was speeding and lost control before hitting the car and the bike. 
 
 After the crash took place, the truck driver managed to escape the spot. The locals in the area helped to take the victims to hospitals. One of the bikers and Sunil were taken to the government hospital in Pataudi while the others were taken to Rockland hospital in Manesar.
 
 ASI Jai Bhagwan of Farrukhnagar police station said that an FIR has been registered in the case under sections 279 (speeding) and 304A (death by negligence) of the IPC at the   police station. 
 
 Police said that they did not spot any helmet at the spot, indicating that the bikers might not have been wearing helmets. Cops added that they were tracking down the truck driver who would be arrested.
 
 
