KOLKATA: For a sizeable section of Kolkatans observing   at home, the violence on the occasion and the display of arms came as a shock. It has traditionally been a peaceful and low-key event that often passed off without being noticed, they maintained. They find it difficult to accept the hostile and aggressive texture that has now been given to Ram Navami.

 The Bardhan family of Girish Park, for instance, had a busy last weekend preparing for Annapurna puja on Sunday. It’s been a ritual with the family for the last 23 years to offer prayers to the goddess on Ram Navami. A silent and solemn affair, held strictly within the four walls of their home, it had none of the colour or the aggressive posture of some of the Ram Navami processions taken out across the state. The Bardhans and many others like them who observed Ram Navami, in fact, find it disheartening that a religious occasion has been turned into a volatile political event. 
 
  
 “My father was keen that we do the puja and I started it 1996. Ever since, we have been holding the puja every year. Our neighbours take part in it and we observe the day peacefully as a community. For us, it’s like any other religious occasion that we observe at home and look forward to. Over the last couple of years, though, we have been feeling a little uneasy about the occasion,” said  , the head of the family.
 
 The discomfiture stems from the violence that has been marking Ram Navami since 2016, he says. “We have never associated the puja with processions brandishing arms. This is alien to us and our culture. It might have been the practice in north India, but such processions had never been taken out in Bengal,” said Bardhan.
 
 For the Agarwal family of Tollygunge, Ram Navami has been synonymous with Kumari puja — a family ritual. It is followed by a frugal lunch of puri and halwa — the prasad. This year has been no different but the puja was a ‘quick and muted’ affair. “We kept it short and decided not to invite our neighbours that we did till last year. Ram Navami has been turned into a communal muscle-flexing exercise which is sad and deplorable,” said  , a family member.
 
 The Sarkars of Salt Lake’s BD block run a catering business and have been observing Annapurna puja since 2014. Like the Bardhans and Agarwals, they, too, cannot accept the way Ram Navami is now being celebrated. “Swords and knives don’t go with any puja. It is unfortunate that some people are bent on giving it a political colour,” said Sujay Sarkar, the head of the family.
 
  had taken up arms to kill asura — seen as the symbol of evil power — observed Sarkar. “But you don’t have to wield arms or threaten anybody to symbolize the victory of good over evil. This is nothing but a political move and has become a matter of concern. Such show of arms was not seen even last year,” Sarkar said.
 
 The controversy surrounding Ram Navami is quite unnecessary, felt Kasba resident Surjanarayan. His family has been holding Annapurna puja on the day for last 70 years. “For us, it’s always been a homely affair. Suddenly, we find that it has been turned into a trigger for communal violence. This is the perfect example of religion being used for political gains,” he said.
 
