CHANDIGARH: In a clear violation of Right To Education (RTE) Act, many schools in Panchkula and Chandigarh are mentioning on their websites that admissions for  will be based on assessment. Rules clearly spell out schools cannot conduct any kind of tests for admissions from Classes I to VIII.

 According to Section 13 of the Act, no school is authorised to collect any capitation fee while admitting a child. The child or his/her parents/ guardian will not appear for any screening procedure. If the school subjects any prospective child to screening, it “shall be punishable with a fine which may extend to Rs 25,000 for initial contravention and Rs 50,000 for subsequent contraventions,” the Act has said.
 
  
 
 
 Recently, the district education officer had imposed a fine of Rs 25,000 on a Sector 7-based school for conducting admission test for Class I. Last year as well, a school in Sector 37 was fined.
 
 
 TOI is in possession of screenshots of websites mentioning ways of   Some have stated admission test, while others have used the term “assessment”. Other have written they will decide on admission after an interaction with the child.
 
 
 One school from Chandigarh and seven from Panchkula have clearly mentioned about  . Others have said it will be based on informal interaction. When asked, some schools claimed the websites were not updated, while others refused to comment. An admission counsellor in a Panchkula school said, “We neither interview nor entrance test for entry or pre-primary classes.” A school in Panchkula has stated, “On payment of the prescribed fee, candidate will be registered for the formal meeting of parents/ guardians with principal or admission test (classes nursery to UKG excluded).”
 
 
 
 
 
 A school in Morni has written, “Subsequent to the parent/child/school interaction, the school will be able to confirm whether admission may be granted.” Another Panchkula school has stated, “Admission from classes (I-X) will depend on the performance of the child in the entrance test.” A Manimajrabasedschoolhas mentionedin its 2018-19 admission process that, “Selection is done after assessment followed by interaction with the child and parent” in UKG and LKG. For Classes I to VIII- “Selection is on the basis of assessment, interaction and results of previous class.” A Sector 15-based Panchkula school stated, “Admission will be granted on the basis of test and students’ performance in scholastic and coscholastic domains.”
 
