HYDERABAD: The withdrawal of Telugu Desam Party (TDP) from the  , though a well-calculated move by party president and chief minister N  , has put the ruling party in   at political crossroads.

 Though TDP may sail with BJP for now, Naidu has dropped enough hints that he may have to reconsider the ‘party-to-party’ alliance if there’s no change in the Centre’s alleged step-motherly attitude towards Andhra Pradesh. And in case TDP breaks its electoral alliance with BJP, both parties may have to search for new poll partners, leading to a new politico-electoral scenario at the 2019 hustings.
 
 The TDP leadership may prefer Jana Sena of film actor Pawan Kalyan. It may even seek support of Left parties as in the past to further consolidate electoral base. But TDP may find a competitor in BJP in wooing Pawan Kalyan to its side. Jana Sena, formed before 2014 general elections, has thus far not tested its electoral strength directly, but both TDP and BJP believe Pawan Kalyan had helped them beat YSRCP of YS Jaganmohan Reddy. The TDP-BJP combine scraped through the elections with just 2% difference in total votes polled. On his part,   too may search for electoral partner, though he went alone in 2014.
 
 Naidu, an astute politician he is, has devised a threepronged political strategy to corner the BJP leadership. First, TDP MPs staged protest in Parliament stalling the proceedings. Secondly, two ministers withdrew from the Central Cabinet. The third strategy — to pull out of the NDA alliance — is likely to see some real political fireworks in the state as it would sow more seeds of discord between the TDP and BJP.
 
 Incidentally, TDP has never contested an election on its own ever since it was formed in 1982.
 
 It has sailed either with the Left or BJP or both. Given the tough electoral battles fought in AP, Naidu may not dare go independently in the next polls, notwithstanding his oft-repeated slogan “there is no alternative” to his leadership, which the state needed the most. The delay in completion of   and Amaravati as also other major projects may hit Naidu’s image as he wanted to complete them before polls.
 
 In this scenario, Pawan Kalyan may emerge as the leader to be watched. Even the YSRCP may prefer to align with the actor to boost its electoral fortunes, But, for now Pawan is keeping his electoral plans close to his chest. Jagan’s padayatra is also something to be reckoned with for Naidu as no political leader, who undertook more than 1,000 km padayatra in the state, failed to return to power.
 
