From times, immemorial motherhood has been looked upon as the most demanding role in this whole wide world and rightly so, as it is a period the actions during which clearly impacts not only the mother’s own but also another life. Stories have it that Abhimanyu learnt the art of warfare from his father while he was still in his mother’s womb. Whether learning to this extent is possible or not is not known but what we do know today is that there is a lot of impact of what a women eats during her pregnancy on the future of the fetus in her womb. Body constituents of adiposity seem to get established during the term of pregnancy especially the 1st and the 2nd trimesters. It has been ascertained for a while now that heavier fetuses tended to have obesity issues as they grew up. In a recent study published in the journal Pediatrics the researchers were able to find the connection between dietary intake of the mother and its impact on adiposity of the children. The study looked at a long term data from a group of 1,078 pregnant women and found a clear direct relationship between sugar sweetened beverage intake of the mother during pregnancy and childhood weight trends. The follow ups were done during the first and second trimesters as well as when the child was 3 years and then 8 years .This is even more alarming because this appears to have even more impact than the child’s own intake in childhood. The data clearly indicates that this phenomenon occurred especially in children of women who were younger with history of substance abuse and poor dietary habits.

 In another study (Wrotniak 2008) it was shown that for every 1 kg weight gain during pregnancy there was a 3% higher chance of the child being overweight at age 7. It has also been seen that gaining a lot of weight during pregnancy increases the risk of gestational diabetes particularly in women who are prone to it, which in turn places the infants subsequently at a risk of other   like high blood pressure and abnormal cholesterol levels. (Boney et.al 2005 ).
 
 A study published in the   study found that women who ate foods with added sugars in the form of sucrose, high fructose corn syrup, honey or fruit juices saw a 38 percent increase in their child’s risk for allergy between the ages of 7 and 9. It has also been seen that maternal nutrition has a long-lasting impact on the offspring’s risk of developing mental-health disorders, impaired social behaviour, lower cognitive abilities and increased response to stress.
 It is evident here that maternal factors are very important for a child’s wellbeing and prevention right from the gestational period and proper maternal nutritional measures may go a long way in avoidance of obesity, allergy and other such non communicable life style conditions in the next generation. Hence, when we say motherhood is a great responsibility, it is true in every sense of the word.
 
 
 
 
