MUMBAI : Sachin Tendulkar’s batting career can be divided into two phases. Pre-1999, until when he’d go home to his father after every cricket series and enjoy the company of the only cricket aficionado who wouldn’t judge him for the number of runs scored and post-1999, when his father’s demise set him on a neoteric path that he had to find for himself over the course of the next 14 years.

 
 
 
 
 
  — an attribute for 1998 Coca Cola Cup in Sharjah — that completes 20 years today, coinciding with Tendulkar’s 45th birthday, can perhaps be seen as the landmark Tendulkar-outing that broadly segregates the two phases in the master batsman’s career. And in that lies a statistic that speaks volumes of Tendulkar’s determination to keep playing at all times.
 
 Between 1989, his debut in Pakistan, and 1998, Tendulkar hardly missed a match for India, barring a couple of ODIs in New Zealand, but never missed a Test. However, once stress began taking a toll on his back in February 1999, the remaining 14 years of his career were spent battling injuries.
 
 “Back, toe, hamstring, ankle, elbow, shoulder, knee, groin, wrist …” he goes on.
 
 These were injuries that took a lifetime healing, many leading to major surgeries, most leading to spectacular comebacks. In that, Tendulkar has a story to tell.
 
 “I remember the night after scoring the 143 — which took India to the final of the Coca Cola Cup on April 22, 1998 — I reached the hotel at around 2.30am. By the time I could finish with dinner and all obligations, it was already the next day morning. The next day was the final.
 
 “In those days, we didn’t have the kind of support staff that’s available now. My body was still aching from that previous innings and I remember thanking my luck that we fielded first in the final,” he remembers.
 
 Tendulkar does look back at 1999 changing his life forever. From a batsman faced with the responsibility of shouldering India’s batting through that decade, the page turned for him with the added responsibility of dealing with an irreparable loss.
 
 Yet, as he puts it, his best in Oneday cricket was yet to come. “The World Cup league game against Pakistan at Centurion in 2003. The biggame pressure, the opposition, the attack, what was at stake. That was more satisfying,” he says, recollecting his sublime 98 that puts even the ferocious Desert Storm in shade because of the purity of strokeplay that was on view.
 
 On the eve of his birthday, one that comes at a time when the batting legend sees the gamut of his responsibilities only widening, Tendulkar does look back at those days with a lot of affection. It is for that reason, he doesn’t mind stepping out of his car to join a bunch of metro workers playing cricket post-midnight on a lit-up Mumbai street.
 
 “That was fun,” he says about the video clips that went viral. “We just stopped the car and I got out. I quite enjoyed it.”
 
 Be it pre-Desert Storm or post, pre-retirement or post, cricket remains at the heart of all things for the master.
 
 
