KOCHI:   department will be issuing a public notice to airlines and passengers, urging them not to bring pets directly to India through   (Cial) due to the absence of animal quarantine facility. The move comes in the wake of a cat being detained at the airport for over 24 hours before 'deporting ' the animal. 

 
  
 
 Customs commissioner   said the department was planning to issue a public notice as passengers and even airlines were unaware of the rules that prohibit bringing pets into the country directly through Kochi. The cat was brought by a couple from   on Friday and it was seized and detained by customs sleuths as import of pets are only allowed through airports with an animal quarantine officer.
 
 The cat was deported after being kept in the administrative block of the customs department at the airport for over 24 hours with the owner insisting that the cat 'will not sleep without him'. Customs sleuths let him stay as they were worried about its safety.
 
 "As of now we only have animal quarantine office facility at Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad airports. A pet can be imported only through these airports," said the commissioner.
 
 The couple was fined a token amount of Rs 5,000 and the airline, which brought the cat to the airport, agreed to take it back. "We technically had to deport the cat but we didn't want to harass passengers. They were clearly misinformed and unaware of the rules. Still, a token fine was levied and someone close to the couple received the cat at Jeddah when it was sent back," said the commissioner.
 
 For bringing a pet, the passenger must have a required health certificate from the country of origin, a transfer of residence certificate or a licence issued by DGFT (Director General of Foreign Trade) and an examination by the animal quarantine officer at select airports in the country.
 
 Assistant commissioner with the customs department EV Sivaraman said such problems were uncommon. "Kochi is not a designated port for import of pets. We had given all airlines a letter telling them that pets can't be brought here. If I remember correctly, a letter was issued a few years ago when we faced a similar issue. Hence, usually they do not bring pets and even if pets are brought they'll be sent back on the same airlines after adjudication," he said.
 
 In November last year, a Shih-Poo, a crossbreed between a poodle and a Shih Tzu, was brought to Kochi by a passenger who was moving from Ontario in Canada to Kochi. The passenger had then flown into Kochi via Mumbai. The dog was brought to Kochi after getting all necessary clearance from the animal quarantine office in Mumbai.
 
 The official health certificate from the country of origin should certify that the pet is free of any contagious diseases such as rabies, canine distemper, parvo virus infection, and leptospirosis. The dog must be vaccinated against rabies one month before travel. The owner also needs to make a declaration that the dog is not for sale, gift, commercial or breeding purposes.
 
 
