MUMBAI: Four missing  , including an Indian, have been declared   after a search team recovered three bodies aboard the ill-fated merchant ship,  , on Monday. Built in 2017, the   was on her fourth voyage from Singapore to Suez when a fire broke out on the front-end of the cargo container that had highly dangerous  , gases and combustible liquids. The mishap occurred about 340 nautical miles from Agatti at Lakshwadeep Island on March 26. 

 The fire broke out when there were 27 crew, including 13 Indians, aboard the ship loaded with 7,860 containers. The crew sent a distress signal to Indian Coast Guard’s Maritime Rescue & Coordination Centre in Mumbai, and 23 of them jumped into the sea at 9.45pm. MRCC got in touch with another merchant ship, ALS Ceres, that was near the spot and   the crew. A Thai, identified as Panigorn, died while being taken to Kochi. Out of the crew found was Sakim Hegde, a cook. 
 
 A Coast Guard official said the four may have got stuck inside the cargo when the fire broke out. “The shipping company alerted us that they found three of the four bodies, which were beyond recognition. The bodies were recovered while the salvage team embarked on the ship while they towed her away to Salalah,” the official told TOI.
 
 The shipping company has alerted the victims’ families and DNA tests may be conducted to identify the bodies. 
 
 Press officer at AP Moller-Maersk, Lejla Charif, told TOI, “The remains of three of the four missing crew have been found on board the vessel. At this point in time, three colleagues are unidentified. Given the time that has passed and the severe damage of the vessel, we must conclude by now that we have lost all four colleagues who have been missing since the fire, which began on March 6,” said Charif.
 
 The evacuated crew disembarked in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram, where they received professional medical treatment and were offered crisis counselling; most have been transferred to a hotel. “We are relieved that most of our colleagues have been discharged from hospital. We, however, remain deeply concerned about the health of our colleagues still in hospital and are grateful that they are in the capable hands of medical professionals. We are in regular contact with the hospitals and are monitoring the situation of all colleagues,” said Palle Laursen, chief technical officer, Maersk. 
 
 Company officials said those who initially received intensive care (three, including an Indian from Thiruvananthapuram), have been moved to the general ward and are recovering well. A crisis psychologist has been made available to all crew.
 
 
