Thane: The inauguration of the 36,000 sq km miniature replica of Thane city at Ghodbunder Road has opened up an opportunity for visitors to witness a one-stop destination to know the history and heritage of Thane. 

 The formal inauguration took place on Tuesday evening by guardian minister Eknath Shinde and Yuva Sena chief Aditya Thackeray. 
 
 The park located near the   junction, showcases the old and  , a first-of-its-kind initiative by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC). 
 
 With over 10 historic miniature replicas on display, the park also boasts of a botanical garden, pathway, an amphitheater, games and rides for children and statues of notable personalities.
 
 Accordingly, replicas of the Central jail, Dadoji Kondev stadium, Masunda lake, old Thane and new Thane railway station, etc. have been constructed at the park.
 
 It is said that the Rs 16 crore worth project will be an infotainment park where citizens can take a walk down the memory lane wherein every turn will showcase the development of the city from how it was decades ago in comparison to the current scenario.
 
 Mohan Kalal, executive engineer of the project from TMC, said, “Thane as a city has progressed from a back of the beyond locality to a metropolitan city. One will be baffled by the changes in new Thane from old Thane. We wanted to showcase the progress made by the city as a whole. For example on the water front development level, we have displayed a replica of the old Kalwa bridge and the new one. Even the Station Area Traffic Improvement Scheme (Satis) bridge replica shows the recent developments in the city. The main highlight is a toy train which is wall mounted on the periphery of the park. It depicts the first railway train between Thane to Boribundar in 1853.”
 
 Pradeep Shikhe, a resident of Ghodbunder Road, said, “Residents in my area are elated at the opening of such a park. We are new to Thane and what better way to learn about the development of the city over the years?”
 
 
