KOZHIKODE: The policemen attached to the Thunderbolt and the   (ANF) in the state had a nasty shock earlier this month and this time it was not from the Maoists. The government has brought in a massive cut in the special pay given to the force as risk allowance to attract energetic young men to the daunting task. 

 The special pay to the elite force was introduced in 2014 after studying the pay package of similar forces in the country, including that of the Grey Hounds and   (SIB) of the Telengana and   police. As per the government order, the personnel deputed in the anti-Naxal operation will be given an additional pay of 50% of their basic salary and 10% of basic salary plus DA.
 
 According to the new order issued in the first week of this month, the special pay has been 'revised' to 28% of the basic pay. The order further stated that the revision is being made after the accountant general sought some clarifications in the wake of the implementation of the Tenth Pay Commission. The pay revision will come into effect from January 1, 2018, as per the order.
 
 There are around 800 policemen deputed exclusively for the anti-Naxal operations in the state after the presence of Maoists was identified in Kerala in 2013. Apart from the Thunderbolt and the ANF, there are many plainclothesmen engaged in the intelligence collection on the ground.
 
 In 2017, the government called applications from the physically-fit policemen in the local stations who are willing to join the anti-Naxal force. They were promised all the benefits given to the men deployed for anti-Naxal operations.
 
 They were given two-months' training and have been posted at the police stations in the Maoist-affected districts. Once opted for the duty, they should work in these areas for a period of two years. These policemen also will lose the additional benefits promised at the time of posting. 
 
 "This is the most unkindest cut of all as the special pay was the main attraction for many young men to undertake the risky job. The special pay package is intact for policemen in all other Naxal-affected states. The pay cut will certainly affect the morale of the force which is engaged in the perilous job," said a source.
 
 
