CHANDIGARH: Punjab rural development and panchayat minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa on Tuesday said around 70% sarpanchs across the state, especially in the Majha region, were not cooperating with the   government. A large number of sarpanchs in Punjab as of now owe allegiance to the Shiromani Akali Dal.

 Citing an example, Bajwa alleged, “If the beneficiaries for construction of toilets under the government scheme have to be identified, sarpanchs say they only will decide who should be the beneficiary under the scheme. Otherwise, they will not sign the papers.” The minister said since the   had made it mandatory to have the recommendation of the village sarpanch, the state cannot ignore them. But he said his department would take up the issue with the World   to come up with some other option.
 
 Sharing another example of ‘unruly’ sarpanchs, Bajwa said, “They collect water supply bill payment from villagers but do not submit to the government exchequer. We are also going for a one-time settlement of such water supply bills.”
 
 When asked as to what stops the state government from taking action against such sarpanchs, Bajwa said, “It is a long process to remove them. They have to be issued notices and then heard. By the time next panchayat elections will come.” However, he said all the SAD sarpanchs are not bad and some are doing good work.
 
 Announcing an important project of the panchayat department, Bajwa said in order to permanently end the problem of animal carcasses (Hadda Rori) in villages, the state government proposes to establish rendering plants on a public private partnership (PPP) mode for disposing of carcasses of dead animals in a scientific way. These plants would be coming up at Patiala, Amritsar and Ludhiana as part of a pilot project. This would lead to an income of Rs 5,000 from every dead animal after processing while putting a stop to the menace of stray dogs, added the minister.
 
 Bajwa, who also holds the charge of department of water supply and sanitation, said the government would start supplying 10 hours drinking water supply to 1,000 new villages every year and so far 1,852 villages are being provided 10 hours water supply. He said new water testing lab would be set up at Amritsar, and existing water testing labs at Patiala and Mohali would be upgraded at a cost of Rs 8.58 crore.
 
 
 
