NEW DELHI: Children who have been in the captivity of kidnappers are most likely to suffer from an extreme fear of crowds if not counselled immediately.

 Mental health experts said that the   of being abducted from a school bus and then being confined to a room for days may lead the child to develop a complex mental condition in which he could become numb to fear or get agitated at the slightest provocation, like a loud noise. A five-year-old child like   can develop apathy towards going to school and tend to be clingy towards his mother or sister, experts added.
 
 Jayanti Dutta, a mental health expert, said that in such cases the victim child usually goes through a severe bout of anxiety and fear for days. He may go through sleepless nights that would create a trauma lasting years. “The child need not be counselled by a specialist and the parents need to keep an eye on his behaviour. Parents need to bring back the trust about his safety,” she added.
 
 One of the plus points for Vihaan was that he had developed a friendship with one of the kidnappers, who possibly treated him well. “His trauma could reduce due to this. In general, victims can develop post-traumatic stress disorder after witnessing violence,” Dutta said.
 
 Rajat Mitra, a criminal mental health expert, said a traumatised child can have nightmares or may not be willing to meet anyone except close family members. “The parents or those close to the child need to constantly reassure him that whatever happened would not reoccur again,” he added.
 
 “Instead of being overprotective, parents must try to normalise things. This doesn’t help when the child grows up. Such things will make him oblivious to situations where he is expected to be afraid,” Mitra said.
 
 Mental health expert Avdesh Sharma said that in such cases children may show two kinds of behaviour — either start fearing everything that reminds him of the trauma, like a school bus, or become completely oblivious. “We have seen children become oblivious to their feelings in extreme cases,” he added.
 
 
