CHANDIGARH: The   Police on Thursday announced to provide protection to the cinema hall owners who were willing to screen the movie ‘Padmaavat’ in the state. While making the announcement, Haryana DGP B S Sandhu said no untoward incident had been reported in 33 cinemas of nine cities, including Gurugram, Faridabad, Hisar, Sirsa, Fathebad, Rohtak, Jhajjar, Sonipat and  , where the movie was screened.

 Sandhu further confirmed that  , former   leader and now representing  , was put under house arrest as a preventive measure.
 
 The state police chief said, besides the state police, 54 companies of the state reserve police force have been put on high alert to deal with any untoward incident related to screening of the movie.
 
 Sandhu gave these details on Thursday while addressing media after the state government came under heavy criticism for its failure to control violence in the state.
 
 The DGP said around 30 persons have been arrested by the state police in relation to the four FIRs registered against protesters.
 
 While three FIRs have been registered in relation to the Wednesday’s incident of attack on the Haryana roadways and private school bus near Bhondsi in Gurugram, one case has been registered in relation to the protest in  .
 
 The DGP also confirmed that around 100 persons were taken into preventive detention in the Faridabad but all were released after stern warning. “Any cinema owner willing to screen ‘Padmaavat’ in their theatre can approach for security through the deputy commissioner concerned. The state police would provide them complete police protection for smooth screening of the movie. Instructions have also been issued to strictly deal with those attempting to obstruct screening of the film,” Sandhu added.
 
 When asked if Wednesday’s violence was a failure of intelligence, the DGP said the incident was “extremely unfortunate’ for which remedial steps have been taken. He said around 18 persons have been booked for the incident and serious charges has been slapped against them to ensure they could not get bail.
 
 Meanwhile, chief minister   held a special meeting with the senior officers and top police officials on Thursday morning in view of the Wednesday’s violence in Gurugram.
 
 
