PATNA: Dance, drama and music marked the 33rd   of Gyan Niketan on Saturday. The event was inaugurated by school founder Kishore Kunal. He asked the students not to take short cut to achieve their goals.

 The cultural programme started with a welcome dance on ‘Vishnu Vandana’. An English skit on ‘The beggar and the king’, which gives the message of equality, was staged by senior students. Primary students staged a Hindi drama on ‘Aaj ke Dronacharya’.
 
 Last year’s toppers in board examinations and other activities were also felicitated on the occasion. Aamir Khan, a Class XII student, bagged the ‘student of the year’ trophy, while ‘sportsperson of the year’ award went to Paritosh Kumar Rai of Class XII. Last year’s Class XII toppers in various streams, including Jayesh Anand (science), Amit Kumar and Gyan Prakash (commerce) and Ankit Kumar (humanities) were felicitated. School principal J K Mukherjee presented the annual report of the school. School administrator Anita Kunal congratulated the students and teachers for making the programme a success.
 
 Radiant International School: Class XI students of Radiant International School bade adieu to the outgoing Class XII students at a farewell party organised on the school campus on Saturday. School choir welcomed the outgoing Class XII students with melodious songs. Principal Col Prem Prakash applauded the batch for being one of the brightest one. He asked the students to carry forward the school’s motto ‘to learn, to serve and to excel’. Class XI students put forth the scintillating dance performance. Class XII students shared their bittersweet experience and participated in various fun games. The principal presented mementos and gifts to Class XII students. The programme concluded with cake cutting ceremony.
 
 IIT-Patna: Swami Nishchalananda Saraswati Maharaj delivered a lecture on ‘Vedic mathematics and science’ at Indian Institute of Technology-Patna on Saturday. He was welcomed by S K Parida, acting director and associate dean of academics and S K Samanta, professor incharge, Institute Wellness Centre of IIT-P. Maharaj elaborated on the negative impacts of technology applications and consumerism culture on present generation and how it should be rectified for the benefit of mankind and environment.
 
 
