CHITTORGARH: Nikki Chauhan and Jayshree Rathore, both college students, are at the   on Sunday morning, wearing turbans and with swords in their hands. They are here with 200 other women who are threatening to commit   (self-immolation) if ‘Padmaavat’ is released on January 25. Like other young women here, they also pose for photos, take selfies and post them on Facebook.

 “Do you see the anger and enthusiasm among Rajput women here? They can take any extreme step,” says Mahendra Kunwar, the woman leading the Johar Smriti Sansthan in Chittorgarh and the one organising these protests. Giving her competition in bringing in women here is a BJP leader and organiser of Johar Kshatrani Manch, Sangeeta Chauhan. Men from the Karni Sena sit in one corner of the garden inside the fort, letting the women hog the media limelight. Last week, the Karni Sena had said some 1,800 women had signed up to commit ‘Johar’ on January 24, but only about 200 women were present on Sunday for a protest march.
 
 “Johar is the last step. It may be required as our men tried their best but could not stop the movie’s release. We are writing a letter to the PM and President asking for Ichha Mrityu (permission to commit suicide),” Chauhan told ET.
 
 The World Heritage Site has become the epicentre of the protests around ‘Padmaavat’, with the fort even being closed twice in the past one month by protestors. Even foreign tourists are bemused.
 
 “Are these women seriously going to jump into a fire over a movie,” asks a US tourist Evina Jorden, insisting upon a selfie with the protesting women. She goes on to buy a couple of posters of Rani   from inside the fort for `00 each — they are selling like hotcakes now. DSP, Chittorgarh, Gajendra Singh, is at the fort too. “I don’t think anyone is committing suicide here… we are letting them protest and march peacefully. Attempt to suicide is a criminal offence,” Singh says. A lady officer here is also not overtly worried.
 
 Pointing to a young woman in the crowd who is busy clicking selfies on her iPhone, she says: “All this is for media limelight.”
 
 A small ‘havan’ is done in the Johar Kund here (where Rani Padmini symbolically committed Johar).
 
 The Rajput priest, called specially for the purpose, justifies the thin crowd, saying Rajput women generally do not come out in the open so much.
 
 Police allow the Karni Sena to bring a jeep and sound system inside the fort to let the 5-km march start till the office of the Johar Smriti Sansthan where the women pay obeisance at Johar Jyoti Mandir here.
 
 Some elderly Rajput women tell ET that there are two issues with the movie — one that Rani Padmini has been shown as “mythical” while she very much existed, and the other that she has been shown “dancing around for entertainment”. “We will die for the sake of our mother Padmini,” says Raksha Rathore. Karni Sena has brought in crowds from Madhya Pradesh and some other districts of  .
 
 Slogans like ‘Khoon Se Tilak Karo, Goliyon Se Aarti’ and ‘Shatranion ke Samman Mein, Har Nari Maidan Mein’ rent the air as cops watch. At the Padmini Mahal, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has now covered its plaque which earlier said Rani Padmini’s reflection was shown to   in a mirror here. The mirror room is also closed after being vandalised by the Karni Sena a couple of months ago. Chittorgarh Fort is bracing up for a showdown on January 24.
 
 
