CHANDIGARH: The inordinate delay in making appointments to the higher judiciary, including the posts of chief justices, is adding to the pendency rate in Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. The number of cases in Punjab and Haryana high court has gone up by a lakh in over a year.

 
 Despite timely recommendations of the   (SC) collegium on appointing two senior judges of different high courts as Chief Justices of Punjab and Haryana high court and the HP high court, these HCs are being run by acting chief justices.
 
 Punjab and Haryana high court is the worst-hit by the Centre’s apathy. It only has 49 judges against the sanctioned strength of 85.
 
 Four sitting judges, including Justice TPS Mann, Justice MMS Bedi, Justice Jaspal Singh and Justice Anita Chaudhary, are going to retire this year.
 
 
 
 Names of 11advocates recommended by the high court collegium for alleviation as judges in December last year, are also pending for consideration of the Centre for the past over four months. Sources confirmed to TOI that the ministry of home affairs (MHA) has even conducted a thorough verification of the antecedents of these lawyers, but there is no sign of clearance of these names.
 
 As per the law ministry, the shortage of judges has put the Punjab and Haryana high court at third place in the top 10 worst-performing high courts in the country in terms of pendency of 10-year-old cases. As per the ministry’s data, around one lakh cases pending in the HC are for more than 10 years old.
 
 According to the National Judicial Data Grid, the HC had a pendency of around 2.89 lakh cases in 2016, which rose to 3.19 lakh in 2017. Sources say that because of shortage of judges, the pendency has touched around 3.8 lakh cases at present.
 
 The SC collegium on April 19, recommended the name of Justice  , senior puisne judge of the Allahabad high court, for the post of Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana high court in place of Justice S J Vazifdar who superannuated on May 3. However, the Centre failed to notify his appointment and Justice A K Mittal was appointed as Acting Chief Justice of the HC.
 
 Similarly, post of Chief Justice of the HP high court is lying vacant since April 27, 2017, after retirement of Justice   and Justice   is functioning as the Acting Chief Justice for the more than a year. This, despite the fact that Justice Surya Kant, one of the seniormost judges of the Punjab and Haryana high court, known for swift and highest disposal of cases, has already been recommended for Chief Justice’s post in HP high court by the SC collegium in its meeting held on January 10. However, the Centre is yet to issue a notification regarding his appointment. Legal experts say the delay would demoralize the members of judiciary and legal fraternity but also adversely hit administration of justice.
 
