ROURKelA: In a first,  , Rourkela, on Wednesday evening published results of the first phase examinations, which were held between March 27 and April 16, a week ahead of the scheduled date. 

 The BPUT had earned a bad name for not being able to publish the results in time since its inception. This is also for the first time the university published results of all examinees at one go unlike earlier practices when results of different branches were published in phases.
 
 According to a BPUT source, the   of even semesters of different courses like BTech (8th semester), BArch. BPharm, BPlan, MPlan, MSc and MBA were published. 
 
 "Since, the evaluation of papers was getting delayed, earlier results of all appearing students were published in different phases," said C R Tripathy, vice-chancellor, BPUT. 
 
 "Since the practice was widely criticised, in our last board of management meeting we decided to take all necessary initiatives to publish the results of all students at a time," Tripathy said. 
 
 The BPUT authorities claimed that efforts were taken to publish error-free results as well. 
 
 "However, we have asked the constituent colleges to inform us latest by May 30 if any error come to their notice and we have kept 15 days window to rectify the errors," Tripathy said.
 
 Since results of final semester of different courses have been published, the students can download their provisional certificates and grade sheets from the examination website, said Tripathy.
 
 "The students, who have got job offers in campus placements, can submit these certificates to their respective companies without any hassle," Tripahty added.
 
 An official said the BPUT student welfare fund, which would support the students in case of death of their guardians, was defunct for last few years, will now be active. 
 
 "In our board of management meeting we took a decision to support a student with Rs 40,000 annually till completion of the course in case of death of his/her financial guardian," Tripathy added. 
 
 
