KOLKATA: The imposition of Section 144 around the state election commission office on   has not only kept agitators at bay, it has also resulted in dwindled business for several establishments along the road. Garment shops and food stalls on the thoroughfare have practically had no customers since Tuesday morning when the road was shut down for pedestrians and vehicles. 

 Even a post office and a petrol pump on the road have suffered a drastic fall in sales. Decora Fursnishings manager   said no customer visited his shop on Wednesday. “The gate cannot be accessed. Our sales were halved ever since agitations started here around a week back. It is now down to zero. The entry restriction continues till 7pm and our shop shuts down an hour after that,” he said.  , owner of Sai Food Plaza, said sales have reduced by 40%. “Over the past few days, we have only had party workers crowding the shop for drinking water. Now, I have barely two or three customers and with Section 144 in force, it doesn’t seem that things will improve soon,” he said. 
 
 No car has driven into   — the lone petrol pump on the road — since Tuesday. Business has been sliding since last week when agitations got frequent. “It had been steadily getting bad over the past few days and now we have no business. Cars are not being allowed on the road till 7pm, so it’s almost like a bandh for us. But we welcome the Section 144 since it will, at least, keep the agitators away and keep my petrol pump safe,” said A Sampath, co-owner of the pump. Post master of Shakespeare Sarani sub-post office,  , said the number of users has gone down by 30% to 40%. 
 
 “The agitations were keeping people away and now with Section 144 imposed, this has turned into a prohibited zone. Many are even calling me up to help them reach the post office with police escort. We feared that the agitators might vandalize the post office. But now it’s as good as a complete shutdown,” Bandyopadhyay said. Honorary consul of Belarus, Sitaram Sharma, had to leave his car and walk down to his office located opposite the state election commission building. “The entite stretch was cordoned off. So, I had no alternative. I cannot invite any foreign diplomats to my office till the panchayat polls are over. 
 
 After attending the consular corps meeting, I had to walk to my office on Wednesday. This time the agitation has been very turbulent,” said Sharma. Louis Philippe store manager Kunal Kapasi rued having missed the surging sales before Poila Baishakh. “We had expected a rise in sales, but it has gone down by 25% to 30%. Customers cannot park their cars. Our shop is open till 8.30pm, but the cops keep the area blocked till evening and most people are avoiding the area. I do not know how long this will continue.”
