Ludhiana: The Ludhiana police on Tuesday booked two residents of Jalandhar for murder charges after body parts of a missing 22-year-old resident of Hathoor village in Jagraon was found near Chachowal village of Jagraon the same day. It is alleged that the youth had some objectionable pictures of the sister of one of the accused.

 On December 30, the accused called the youth near Ludhiana bus stand with the pictures, after which the youth had gone missing. The deceased has been identified as Gurpreet Singh, who was pursuing a diploma in computers. Gurpeet had left his house that day, stating he was going to Chandigarh with friends to an immigration office. When his parents called him in the evening, his mobile was switched off. When by late evening, he did not return home, his worried parents lodged a ‘missing’ complaint with the police.
 
 Gurpreet’s father Jasveer Singh said: “On January 6, my son’s friend Harman Singh told us that on December 30, Gurpreet had talked to him and said he was near Ludhiana bus stand, going to meet someone coming from Jalandhar. After receiving this piece of information, we approached the Ludhiana police.” On Wednesday, Division No.5 police registered a case against Lovdish and Gill of Jalandhar district under sections 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC.
 
 Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-III) Gurpreet Kaur Purewal said Gurpreet had befriended the sister of Lovdish, and he had her pictures, which Lovdish was asking him to return. On December 30, Lovdish and his friend called Gurpreet to meet up near Ludhiana bus stand, from there Gurpreet had gone missing. The official added that the police had reached the accused through Gurpreet’s mobile location, and with the help of a call detail, in which it was identified that Gurpreet had last talked to the accused, and were together near the bus stand. Further, police recovered some body parts, eaten by dogs, near Jagraon. 
 
 The ADCP said the accused were at large, and the police were conducting raids to arrest the accused. 
 
 
