HYDERABAD:   state government is set to launch a crackdown on illegal agents involved in sending workers to the Gulf.

 At a meeting held on Saturday,   affairs minister K T   and home minister N Narasimha Reddy asked the police to take stringent action against illegal agents and also urged that the public should cooperate in putting an end to the menace. Several senior police officials were asked to book cases against such agents.
 
 It was also decided that all recruitment agents should register themselves under the e-migrate portal of the   ministry of external affairs, overseas employment division within a month. After the lapse of the stipulated time period, if they still continue to send workers abroad, they would be treated as illegal agents and action would be taken against them.
 
 The two ministers assured that repeat offenders would be booked under the Preventive Detention Act. Under this, the police has powers to arrest anyone and send them to jail even on the suspicion that they are planning a crime and take measures to stop it. Some schemes for NRI and migrant workers will also be publicized.
 
 Special teams of the police and government departments will also be formed to check women trafficking .
 
 A few days back, K T Rama Rao held a meeting with Union external affairs minister   in Delhi on issues of   workers. He also participated in a meeting of NRI affairs ministers from all states with Sushma Swaraj. The Union minister had outlined the issues and the measures that would have to be taken particularly by the state governments. Sushma Swaraj had in particular stressed that the activities of illegal agents have to be curtailed.
 
 The foundation stone for the ' ' in Hyderabad will be laid during the second week of February. . External affairs minister Sushma Swaraj is expected to lay the foundation stone for the 'Videsh Bhavan' in Hyderabad.
 
 Though the crackdown on illegal agents will begin after giving them a month's time to register themselves , Telangana police have been putting illegal agents behind bars. Cases against such agents have been registered in Hyderabad also.
 
 
