Have you ever noticed how your dog sits outside your bathroom when you are inside? Or, he/she sits next to the door when you go out? This might mean your dog is going through  . Most pet owners either don’t know this or are not aware of the fact that their dog might be suffering from this pain.

 
 
 Pet parents believe they give enough attention and love to their dogs, so why do they have such anxiety? This is the very reason for such a condition. When   are not trained to live alone or are involved all day with their owners, they can’t deal with them leaving. They fear that everytime the owner goes out of the house, they won’t come back. In such cases, dogs go through a lot of stress and express that through bad behaviour, like pacing up and down, scratching doors, pooping at home or howling for hours. It’s quite a discomforting situation for you and your pooch. 
 
 Dog enthusiast Sanjeev says, “Your   can spoil things at home and even hurt themselves if the separation anxiety gets out of hand.” So, the next time you come back home to see your favourite carpet or shoes ruined, you should immediately understand why your dog is behaving this way.
 
 
 
 The idea is to slowly train your dog to becalm about living alone. Gradually, decrease his/her dependence on you. Even when you are at home, you should let your pet get into the habit of being on his own. Make a place for him in the house and let him be busy with his chew treats or toys. These keep dogs busy and tire them out. Eventually, make him comfortable with being in another room where you are not with him all the time. 
 
 Leave the house initially for a smaller period of time and come back and meet him/her; your pooch will eventually understand that you will come back and you aren’t leaving forever. Repeat this a few times, then increase the time slowly. Every time you leave him alone, leave the TV or music on so that he doesn’t feel lonely.
 
 You should also avoid saying goodbye to your dog before leaving – it triggers anxiety in them as they relate that action to you leaving them.Having more than one pet also helps as they can be companions to each other and don’t feel left alone. Walking them before leaving the house will make them tired and will also calm them down.
 
 Seeing your dog in stress and anxiety is a terrible feeling... but with some careful alterations in your behaviour, you can turn them into happy, independent pets who are comfortable even when you aren’t around.
  By: Swati Tandon, pet expert
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  -Saachin Shah
 
 A. When the totality of the scientific evidence is considered, it appears justified to recommend spaying for most females not intended for breeding, as they are more likely to experience potential health problems. But this does not mean mating always helps to prevent cancer. Get her spayed because the reproductive performance decreases as the age of the pet advances. The primary purpose of neutering is to prevent reproduction but it has other benefits too, like reducing or eliminating the risk of several common, serious disorders, including breast cancer and uterus infection. It also eliminates the inconvenience associated with menstruation. The benefits of spaying outweigh the disadvantages.
 
 
 -Astha Bhatt
 
 A. Indian breeds like Mudhol hound or Rajapalayam, local cross breeds or mongrels, are best suited for a hot climate. However, most popular breeds like Labrador, German shepherd, Beagles, Doberman also acclimatise well in the hot summer. Most breeds take two weeks or more to adjust to heat. Avoid brachycephalic dog breeds (with short nose and flat faces), such as the pug, bulldog and boxer as well as large breeds like Saint Bernard. Heatstroke in dogs is a severe disease associated with a guarded prognosis. Some preventive measures in summer include providing access to shade, proper shelter and fresh water all the time. Feed and exercise the dog during the cooler parts of the day.
 
 —Dr Umesh Kallahalli is a well-known vet
 
 
 
 
 
