GURUGRAM: A girl refused to accept the baby she delivered at a city hospital on Thursday, saying the newborn reminded her of the repeated rape and trauma she had suffered since she was trafficked to Gurugram from Gumla ( ) as a minor in November 2016.

 
 The girl, who worked as a nanny at a house in Sector 31, alleged she was raped several times for over a year by a cook, who also worked at her employers’ place. Both the girl and the cook, Mohit Prasad Thakur (27), lived with their employers.
 
 The girl alleged Thakur would rape her whenever he found her alone or their employers would go out. But, she claimed she kept quiet as Thakur had threatened to tarnish her image, which might have cost her the job.
 
 The matter came to light when the employers noticed her baby bump on March 13. She was already 6-7 months into her pregnancy then. When employers questioned her, the girl broke down and confided everything. 
 
 Then, the employers reported the matter to police and an   was filed under sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the   at the Women’s police station. Medical examinations were done, which revealed it was too late to terminate the pregnancy.
 
  Mohit had already gone home to Harraiya,  , on leave and never returned. The police are yet to arrest him.
 
 On Thursday morning, she delivered a baby girl at   in Civil Lines. But she has not seen the child since then, hospital officials said. 
 
 “She reminds me of what I suffered,” the traumatised mother told TOI as tears rolled down her cheeks. “I cannot take her to my village (in Gumla) because no one will understand that it was not my fault,” she added.
 
 “We are trying to counsel the girl. At the end of the day, she is the mother. Once the child is sent for adoption, there will be no looking back for the baby or the mother. The victim is in trauma right now and we want to give her some time to decide,” said Rishikant, founder, NGO Shakti Vahini.
 
 Balkrishan Goel, a member of the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said, “If even after the counselling, the survivor refuses to take the child, the baby will be surrendered for adoption.”
 
 Preliminary probe has revealed the girl, originally from Gumla, was brought to Delhi by an agent in November 2016 and later was employed as a nanny at the house in Gurugram. Her parents, who work in brick kilns, and younger sister are in Gumla.
 
 The girl has not spoken to her parents since she moved to Gurugram as they don’t have a mobile phone. She doesn’t know how her family is now and if they are aware of her whereabouts.
 
 Police sources said Naraiyan was suspected to be the main trafficker. He used to run Bharti Maid Bureau in Delhi’s Shakurpur area earlier and was wanted by police since 2013. The girl was, however, brought to Delhi by Deepak from Devi Placement Service in Pitam Pura. The police are investigating if Deepak was an aide of Naraiyan. 
 
 The girl’s ordeal started 5-6 months after she started living with the employers. 
 
 “Mohit had been working at our house since 2013. He would sleep on the second floor and she would sleep on the ground floor with us. He used to rape her when we were all out. We reported the matter to the police as soon as we got to know about it and have been looking after her ever since,” Sapna told TOI.
 
 Shockingly, the cops did not report the matter to the child welfare committee even though the girl was claimed to be a minor, at least at the time when she was raped for the first time.
 
 
