CHENNAI: Kunal Ved, a relationship manager in a private bank, is taking up an elearning course to upskill himself on the digital learning platform ‘Imarticus’. “The course is not completely online and we meet colearners for a few days every month to discuss varying experience levels and get a better sense of the content. Besides, we have the flexibility of accommodating our work schedules and course timings,” he said.

 
 Even as corporates adopt e-lear ning platfor ms and micro-learning to upskill their employees, classroom teaching has not lost its sheen. Blended learning — a combination of online courses and offline touch points — is increasingly adopted by corporates and individuals.
 
 E-learning service providers see a 25-30% increase in companies opting for blended learning over 100% classroom or e-learning courses. Facilitating discussions and collaborative learning, blended learning offers flexibility for working professionals and also fosters better completion rates.
 
 Imarticus learning managing director   said, “For those looking for employment and new career opportunities, 30% of the course is recommended to be acquired online, and those who want to upskill, look for 20% of the course contents through touch points, since it facilitates collaborative learning.”
 
 Experts from the field are roped in to offer the missing links in e-learning components. ‘Udacity’ offers the course in its B2B offering to corporates for its nano-degree programmes. The company recently partnered with   for ‘UdacityConnect’, a combined in-person and online training offering in autonomous vehicles.
 
  MD   said, “The 20-week programme is training select Infosys engineers in self-driving car technology, including advanced concepts of deep learning and machine learning. It is a blended learning model, which commenced with virtual classes and then converted to in-person trainerled classes at the   campus of the company.”
 
 Companies say that for courses done solely on e-learning, completion rates are at around 30%.
 
 Great Learning founder and CEO Mohan Lakhamraju said, “Learners find the drive to take up courses for hybrid or blended learning, because of collaborative learning and the personal touch. The completion rates have doubled and have gone up to 90%.”
 
 For greater flexibility, the platform that offers courses for analytics also facilitates a transfer to the next batch, and 5% of the students every batch can continue from where they left off during their regular course. “Even those who miss out on classes can catch up with recorded and live-streamed videos,” he said.
 
