KOLHAPUR: The description of fund allocation for local area development made by the standing committee of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation ( ) has been revealed 12 days after chairman Ashish Dhawale presented the final budget.

 Funds of over Rs 4.20 crore — forming 81% of the total budget set aside for the local area development — have been allocated for very few wards including those of Dhawale and Tararani Aghadi corporator Satyajeet Kadam.
 
 During the final budget, Dhawale was reluctant to make the allocations public stating it was not ready. However, by convention, the allocations form the part of the budget and must be presented in the budgetary meeting.
 
 Mayor Swati Yavaluje said she received the copy of the allocations a couple of days ago. The standing committee had suggested the works of around Rs 5.30 crore to be carried out in their wards. However, the allocations reveal that most of the corporators even those from BJP and Tararani Aghadi have been ignored while allocating the funds.
 
 For instance, works of over Rs 2.5 crore have been considered in Dhawale’s ward. Ironically, funds of Rs 21 lakh and Rs 8 lakh have been allocated for the two Nationalist   Party (NCP) corporators — Afzal Pirjade and Ajinkya Chavan — both defying party's whip had voted for Dhawale in standing committee election.
 
 Sharangdhar Deshmukh, leader of ruling Congress party, said, “Consultation with all-party leaders was expected when the budget was finalised. Only few wards related to Dhawale and Kadam have been given huge amount of funds while the most of the corporators did not get any funds. We are giving suggestions to mayor so that appropriate changes were made as far as allocations are concerned and we will ensure that every corporators get the funds.”
 
 Funds for 67 works have been allocated and out of which 20 works are proposed in Dhawale’s Shivaji Park ward. Most of the funds have been allocated for the wards which come under   constituency.
 
 Kadam had contested the last assembly election unsuccessfully from this constituency. As per the rules, Dhawale has set aside funds for the standing committee members while no funds have been allocated to Congress-Nationalist Congress Party corporators.
 
 Meanwhile, some corporators from BJP and Tararani Aghadi unhappy over the allocations met Yavaluje and said she should ensure that the allocations are modified before she signs the final budget.
 
 Responding to the allegations by Congress and NCP, Dhawale said, “Those levelling allegations should check the fund allocation pattern when their party corporators were chairman of the committee. Since last two years, we were neglected by the earlier chairman of the committee. As chairman people have expectations from me which I have satisfied. Also, I have allocated funds for those who have helped me.” 
 
 
