NEW DELHI: Indians hanker for engineering job profiles, while the rest of Asia looks at consultancy roles. Data on professional networking site   shows that mechanical and software engineering job roles were five of the top 10 most viewed job posts in India in 2017. In Singapore and Australia, management consultancy roles and business analyst roles were the top viewed job posts.

 
 The most viewed job post in India, however, was a KPMG one for an analyst. But at the second, third and fifth spots were mechanical engineering job posts from  , security product manufacturing company Allegion, and logistics automation company Vanderlande. Job openings for interns in a software engineering role at Microsoft and Amazon were also among the top-10 most viewed job posts.
 
 “India has always been a hotbed for engineers, and we see close to a million engineering graduates in the country every year. So it is not surprising that many of the most viewed   in India are for engineering roles. In terms of employers, MNCs as well as homegrown companies are expanding and are always looking for good technical talent that is upskilled and ready for the future,” said Irfan Abdulla, director - LinkedIn Talent Solutions and Learning Solutions, India and  .
 
  
  
 
 Job roles in MNCs were being preferred over those in homegrown companies, LinkedIn noted. Eight of the top 10 job posts were those by MNCs. The two remaining were those from Tata Motors and from Paytm (for the role of product manager). This was also the case across Asia-Pacific ( ). “This indicates that job-seekers prefer global companies that showcase a promise of strong career path ahead, alongside that of the company’s upward trajectory,” said Abdulla.
 
 In Hong Kong, financial job roles like finance and risk analyst, investment analyst, analyst for private equity, were popular. Consulting job roles like management consultant and junior consultant in Boston Consulting Group (BCG) were consistently on the top-10 list in other Apac countries.
 
 Abdulla said the preference for consulting could be because it includes several transferable skills. “The role seems to accelerate one’s career, and give an opportunity for the individual to become well-rounded and experienced, and employees get a chance to create business impact at an individual level,” he said. 
 
 
 
