KOLKATA : The state government on Monday started the process of taking back possession of the   land on which five buildings have come up, jeopardizing the New Garia-Airport Metro alignment. The buildings house seven shops, one canteen, one guest house and another hotel.

 Deviating from its earlier stance of distributing compensation payouts among owners of the encroaching structures, the government has now decided to construct alternate space for the shops and the canteen. No decision has yet been taken about the guest house and the hotel.
 
  
  
 
  mayor  , who is anchoring the evacuation of the buildings and the subsequent demolition, told TOI, “The shop-owners are being given space opposite existing structures, so the question of paying compensation doesn’t arise. we will also take care of their trade licence. They have all agreed to move out.”
 
 Asked about the guest house and the hotel, the mayor added, “Let them come to us and say what they want — compensation or land. And we’ll start discussions from there.”
 
 The land acquisition department under the North 24 Parganas district magistrate had on Friday told the property owners to approach the municipal commissioner by March 28 with ownership proof to seek compensation. However, civic officials and local councillor Prosenjit Sardar visited the spot on Monday to measure the area of each shop. Space has been allocated bang opposite the buildings and below the New Town box bridge, for relocating the shops and the canteen. “Space measuring the same area will be handed over to the shop-owners. It should take about a month to construct these shops,” Sardar said.
 
 The owners of the buildings on Monday told TOIthat they had no problem to move out but they needed to be assured of being relocated with proper documents from the government. “We never said anything about vacating our shops so soon,” said Sankar Mondal, an owner. Sukumar Mondal, another owner, added, “We will move out only after we are given ownership documents and proof of possession. We need papers, not verbal promises.”
 
 “The notice doesn’t say anything about eviction. It only asks us to meet the municipal commissioner by Wednesday. We are ready to do that, but the question of vacating our building doesn’t arise,” Satrajit Roy, owner of Megacity Inn, said.
 
