AHMEDABAD: A   by  . The youth accuses a man who also had a motive for the attack – a   The youth dies and the man, also named in a dying declaration, in a video recorded by his friend, is arrested. After a long probe, it turns out that the man in question was not even in the city. Then who killed the youth?

 The murder of Brijesh Yadav, 26, a resident of Saraspur, posed this question which could have been straight out of a detective novel. Police on Monday arrested Vijay Singh Tomar, 26, a resident of Saraspur, for the murder. Incidentally, it was Tomar who had registered the complaint for assault and eventually for the murder of Yadav.
 
  
  S M Chaudhari, inspector of Shaherkotda police station, said that Yadav, Tomar and   worked for Nagendra Singh Rajput, a resident of Krishnanagar and the owner of an agency that seized vehicles from loan defaulters. Over a money dispute, the trio left the job. They still nursed the grudge and Rahul even paid Rs 30,000 to Vijay, to murder Rajput, but they couldn’t.
 
 “They then devised a plan to extort money from Rajput, by framing him in a serious case. When Vijay refused to suffer stab wounds, Vijay and Rahul coaxed Yadav to play the victim. Yadav, from humble financial background, was promised Rs 2 lakh for the job. He agreed as he needed the money for his sister’s wedding,” said Chaudhari.
 
 On the night of December 24, 2016, Vijay called an ambulance about a ‘knife attack’ and inflicted wounds to Yadav’s stomach, chest and hand when they could hear the approaching ambulance’s siren. Yadav named Rajput as the assailant and Vijay even named him in his ‘dying declaration’. When Yadav died on December 29, Rajput was charged with murder and was arrested.
 
 Chaudhari said Rajput maintained from the start that he was in Ankleshwar with his two friends on the said day for a car deal. “Technical intelligence corroborated his claims. We then changed track and started probing the case from different angles. We could not get evidence about bikers coming from the direction mentioned by the complainant. When Vijay did not honour a string of summons, we grew suspicious. He had left the city after Yadav’s death. Locals also told us about talk about a knife’s disposal. Working on information, we nabbed Vijay on Monday,” he said.
 
 Shaherkotda police recovered the murder weapon, which had been thrown in a toilet. Investigators said Vijay had convinced Yadav to lie in the video.
 
 
