ISLAMABAD: Armed burglars on Thursday night raided the residence of the editor of   of Pakistan ( ), an independent watchdog, which recently published its annual report on human rights in Pakistan.

 The commission in a statement on Friday said, “At about 8.45 PM last night (Thursday), two armed men broke into the house of Ms. Maryam Hasan, editor of HRCP’s annual report, in   and took away her laptop, two hard drives and two mobile phones, as well as some jewelry and cash.”
 
 The 296-page HRCP report, launched on April 16 in  , had painted a bleak picture of Pakistan’s human rights record, highlighting rising incidents of enforced disappearances and extra-judicial killings. It attributed some of the disappearances to criticism of the establishment and advocacy of better relations with India.
 
 Dedicated to HRCP’s founder,  , who passed away in February, the report stated that the controversial blasphemy law continues to be misused, especially against dissidents on mere accusations of blasphemy. This also leads to deadly mob violence in Pakistan, the report said. Citing attacks on Shias, Christians and Ahmedis, the report noted that religious minorities continued to be targeted in Pakistan.
 
 “In a year when freedom of thought, conscience and religion continued to be stifled, incitement to hatred and bigotry increased, and tolerance receded even further,” the report said. It revealed that more Pakistani died in incidents described as “encounters” than in gun violence or suicide attacks last year.
 
 Hasan said that she suspected that the two “suave raiders were no ordinary thieves”. She called on the government of   to apprehend the culprits and establish their identity. She said she will hold the provincial authorities responsible for any attempt by state or non-state actors to harass any persons associated with the HRCP.
 
 They raiders told Hasan, who lives alone, that they had also come the day before but did not burgle since she was not at home. “They questioned about her professional engagements and intimidated her in a roundabout manner, finally leaving at 10 PM,” the statement said.
 
