BENGALURU: In-laws of a 23-year-old newly-wed woman, who committed suicide in her southwest Bengaluru residence on Wednesday alleging dowry harassment, found themselves in more trouble for destroying evidence. They had attempted to cover their tracks by destroying their daughter-in-law’s suicide note. But police found the shredded note in a dust bin following a search of the house.

 Police have detained Nagaraj, 58, and Prema, 55, the in-laws of Nirmala Vishwanath. Police are waiting for the return of their techie-son, N Vishwanath, who is away on a work trip to  .
 
 Nirmala was found hanging in a room in her husband's residence in RR Nagar, West Bengaluru. Police said they could only partially piece together the note from the shreds they had gathered, but it was enough to point a damning finger at her in-laws. In her note, written in Kannada, Nirmala said she was being tortured for dowry and things had become impossible to bear.
 
 Nirmala, from Chitradurga, had married Vishwanath in early 2017. She would constantly complain of dowry harassment to her parents, family members said. Vishwanath frequents Japan on official work, police said. He had left last week on his latest trip. Police said Nirmala had called her parents on Monday saying the harassment was getting worse.
 
 “Besides booking them for dowry harassment and abetting suicide, we will also charge them with destruction of evidence,” a senior police officer said, adding, “We have contacted Vishwanath and have asked him to fly back immediately. We will arrest him when he lands here.”
 
 
 
 
 Ravi Kiran, 23, a cab driver, was found hanging in his residence on Chunchaghatta Main Road, South Bengaluru, on Wednesday night.
 
 “I had gone to the market and when I returned around 8pm, I found him hanging from the ceiling in the bedroom,” Vanajakshi, Kiran’s mother, said. “With the help of neighbours, we brought him down and shifted him to a nearby hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.” Police said no suicide note was found in Kiran’s house.
 
 
 
 
 In another case, a cab driver was admitted to the burns ward of   after allegedly setting himself ablaze following a heated argument with his wife on Wednesday night. Police identified the driver as Mervin D’Souza, 29, a resident of HBR Layout, East Bengaluru. 
 
 “The couple would fight regularly over trivial issues and on Wednesday night, Mervin doused himself with kerosene and set himself ablaze. Doctors say he has sustained more than 60 per cent burn injuries,” police said. 
 
 
