Gurgaon: Police may have arrested four of the accused and identified a fifth, but the South Korean woman and her Indian colleague and friend, who were assaulted by the accused, are yet to come out of their shock.

 “They had come with clear intention to molest her. Had we been a little farther off the road, they would have taken us with them,” said the woman’s friend. Preliminary police investigation has hinted the accused were interested in “moral policing”. Sources said the accused had “suspected” the victims of indulging in “public display of affection” in the secluded valley, and wanted to drive them away from the spot.
 
 “It was shocking and scary. My friend is still not feeling well. When the attackers surrounded her, she tried to show them her identity card, and even begged them to let us go, but to no avail. One of them went on shooting a video, while the others laughed menacingly. Thankfully, she couldn’t understand their language and has no idea of the filthy suggestions they were making, but I’m from Delhi so I know how rude it was. Luckily, we somehow managed to escape to the highway, otherwise anything could have happened,” said the man, thanking cops profusely for their quick reaction. 
 
 In a statement to police, he also said he had studied in a polytechnic college from 2002 to 2005. Later, he visited South Korea on a work assignment when he met his colleague. Both of them have been working at a Cyber City-based European MNC since then. They had gone to Jaipur on a personal tour, and were returning to Gurgaon when he suggested they visit his college and drove off the highway.
 
 “The arrested accused said they thought the colleagues “would indulge in embarrassing acts”, and had only approached them to stop that. It appears to be a case of moral policing,” said the investigating officer. “We’re conducting raids to nab the fifth accused — also identified as Mukesh — who is absconding, and hope to arrest him soon,” said inspector Rahul Dev, SHO, Manesar police station.
 
 
