AHMEDABAD: The VHP may have withdrawn its missing person complaint but the inquiry ordered into the security lapse by its international president Pravin   still continues.

 Senior police officers said that they cannot officially record the statement of the VHP president as the missing person complaint had been withdrawn. 
 
 Yet there is a possibility that the VHP leader may be summoned by the investigating officer for his statement.
 
  
  Togadia, who has Z plus security, had suddenly vanished on January 15 despite an SRP jawan assigned for his security. Deputy commissioner of police, Zone-7, RJ Parghi, is conducting a probe to find the security lapse, if there was any.
 
  Ahmedabad police’s crime branch said they have acquired CCTV footage in which Togadia is seen sitting in a luxury car at   Charandas’s bungalow in Thaltej. This contradicts Togadia’s claim that at that time he was on way to the airport in an auto when he fell ill.
 
 In the CCTV footage which the crime branch claims to have, Togadia is seen sitting in an expensive car on the evening of January 15, hours before he was found allegedly unconscious at Chandramani hospital in Shahibaugh.
 
 Police claim that Togadia was at Ghanshyam’s house till the evening January 15 when the VHP chief left the bungalow. Togadia was reported missing by VHP secretary   the same day.
 
 “Bharwad has now withdrawn the complaint as Togadia was found safe and sound. No criminal act had taken place, ” said a police officer.
 
 It may be recalled that Togadia was reported missing after leaving the VHP office at Paldi at about 10:45 am on January 15. Incidentally, a   police team had come to the city with an arrest warrant against Togadia in a case registered at Ganganagar.
 
 Togadia, who was found in the Chandramani hospital the same day, had raised questions the next day about the arrival of Rajasthan police when the case had already been withdrawn by the Rajasthan government. Togadia had accused the probe agency of hatching a conspiracy against him and had called Ahmedabad crime branch a ‘Conspiracy Branch’.
 
 
