Ariyalur: Often referred to as one of the most underdeveloped districts in the state, Ariyalur and its people have something to cheer now, as it has bagged the coveted open defecation free (ODF) district tag. The announcement came from the Union ministry of drinking water and sanitation on Monday as the district managed to construct 64,000 individual toilets in just a period of nine months to keep open defecation at bay. With as many as 201 village panchayats, two town panchayats and two municipalities, the initiative to establish individual toilets across the district was actively taken up by the district rural development agency (DRDA) from April 1, 2017. Through the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) funds, DRDA officials said that around 64,000 individual toilets were built before December 2017 across the district particularly in the belts where open defecation was rampant. “We utilised the grama sabha meetings to create awareness among the villagers to use toilets instead of defecating in public spots. Initially there was a resistance, but identified 201 local motivators in each of the village panchayats to canvas among the people defecating in public places to use individual toilets,” G K Lokeshwari, project director, DRDA, Ariyalur told TOI. DRDA officials said that construction of all the 64,000 toilets were completed at an estimated cost of Rs 86 crore between April and December 2017 in a fast-track manner which has earned the appreciation of the Union drinking water and sanitation ministry. As all the individual toilets built in Ariyalur pursue twin-pit model, the pits can be opened once in six months to collect sludge which can be used as manure in agrarian villages. Besides, in such model, if one of the twin pits gets filled, the diversion chamber available would redirect the incoming sewage to the other pit. “As per instructions of the district administration, we created micro level awareness. School children were sensitised through routine meetings to insist their parents to establish individual toilets in houses to avoid open defecation. MGNREGA workers were roped in to construct individual toilets mostly at their respective houses for which they were paid wages,” Lokeshwari added. Cleared/375 Words Ariyalur: Often referred to as one of the most underdeveloped districts in the state, Ariyalur and its people have something to cheer now, as it has bagged the coveted open defecation free (ODF) district tag. The announcement came from the Union ministry of drinking water and sanitation on Monday as the district managed to construct 64,000 individual toilets in just a period of nine months to keep open defecation at bay. With as many as 201 village panchayats, two town panchayats and two municipalities, the initiative to establish individual toilets across the district was actively taken up by the district rural development agency (DRDA) from April 1, 2017. Through the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) funds, DRDA officials said that around 64,000 individual toilets were built before December 2017 across the district particularly in the belts where open defecation was rampant. “We utilised the grama sabha meetings to create awareness among the villagers to use toilets instead of defecating in public spots. Initially there was a resistance, but identified 201 local motivators in each of the village panchayats to canvas among the people defecating in public places to use individual toilets,” G K Lokeshwari, project director, DRDA, Ariyalur told TOI. DRDA officials said that construction of all the 64,000 toilets were completed at an estimated cost of Rs 86 crore between April and December 2017 in a fast-track manner which has earned the appreciation of the Union drinking water and sanitation ministry. As all the individual toilets built in Ariyalur pursue twin-pit model, the pits can be opened once in six months to collect sludge which can be used as manure in agrarian villages. Besides, in such model, if one of the twin pits gets filled, the diversion chamber available would redirect the incoming sewage to the other pit. “As per instructions of the district administration, we created micro level awareness. School children were sensitised through routine meetings to insist their parents to establish individual toilets in houses to avoid open defecation. MGNREGA workers were roped in to construct individual toilets mostly at their respective houses for which they were paid wages,” Lokeshwari added.  Interestingly, 16 districts in the state are yet to get the open defecation free district status, sources said. Parameters needed for ODF tag: 1) Complete access to toilet facility 2) Complete usage of toilet facility 3) Fly proofing done in toilets 4) Safe septage disposal Total districts in TN: 32 Districts declared as ODF: 16 Tamil Nadu has 88.8% individual household toilet coverage Total Open Defecation Free (ODF) states in India: 10 (100% individual household toilet coverage)