KOLKATA: Frustrated with the CBSE’s decision to hold a retest for   economics examination on April 25, almost a month after all their board paper exams are over, a group of students of various streams and classes plans to take out a protest march in south Kolkata this Sunday. The board authorities have, however, decided not to hold the Class X mathematics paper re-test in Bengal.

 The rally, the first of its kind the city has ever witnessed, will be led by Class XII   students of all major schools here. Students of different classes and streams and their parents are likely to join the march, which is scheduled to start at 11am from Golpark and end at Garia, after crossing Dhakuria, Jadavpur and Bagha Jatin.
 
 
 These youngsters, who so far used social media to virtually join in any sort of protest, be it against a terror attack in Afghanistan or a school shooting in the US, or sexual assault on a student in south Kolkata, will hit the streets with their demand. “It’s true we merely change our display picture on WhatsApp and   as the easiest form of protest. But this time, we must get out on the street as the issue directly affects us,” said Soumi Chakraborty, who wondered when would the results be out if the re-test is held on April 25.
  
  
 “We have seen elders protesting against several issues by taking out processions. We plan to do the same. We want to raise our voice against the CBSE authority’s decision of a re-test. They cannot punish us for some mischief by others,” said Aniket Gupta, a Class-XII student of commerce, who had to cancel a vacation with his friends because of the uncertainty over the re-test date. A group of students on Friday met senior officials of south suburban division, seeking for permission for the rally. The officer has asked them to come back on Saturday. “The official verbally agreed with the route but asked us to return on Saturday,” said Gupta.
 
 The rally was planned on Thursday, when the students decided to take out the march against both classes X and XII re-tests. They created a Facebook event, titled “Protest against Re-Exam”. Till Friday night, 113 people had registered their intention of attending the rally. Classes X and XII students spent most of Friday, planning the march, preparing banners, placards and posters and working on quirky slogans. But by evening, the board authorities announced that no retest will be held for the Class X maths exam in Bengal through it announced April 25 as the date for Class XII economics paper re-test.
 
 Now that the Class X students have been spared a reexamination, Class XII students are even more upset. “They could have followed the same system for us. We had no access to the leaked paper. Then why are we being punished?” said  , a Class XII student, whose parents are still now allowing him to play football to ensure he doesn’t injure himself before the re-test. Class X students are no longer affected but they have still decided to stand by their friends in Class XII. “We are glad we don’t have to appear for the paper again but we will participate in the rally nevertheless, just to stand by our seniors and pressure the CBSE to cancel their re-test as well,” said Nishant Jhunjhunwala, a Class-X student at a south Kolkata school.
 
