PATNA: The   on Wednesday ruled that the fundamental rights of a citizen could not be taken away by the officials by arbitrary use of prohibition law.

 The division bench of Chief Justice Rajendra Menon and Justice Anil Kumar Upadhyay was hearing a PIL filed by Nagrik Adhikar Manch against the government’s order for cutting all palm trees and digging land at Khajurbani in Gopalganj district after the hooch tragedy which had claimed 18 lives on August 16, 2016. The officials had also ordered collective fine on the villagers and confiscation of some houses.
 
 “Why are you taking away the citizens’ fundamental rights of farming and other things. In the garb of prohibition law, officials are acting mechanically without applying brain. You can’t just raze every house in the village to search  ,” Chief Justice Menon remarked while expressing unhappiness over the way officials were acting in cases related to prohibition.
 
 Justice Upadhyay asked the state to reply first what action was taken against the government officials and the accused responsible for the incident. The court later ordered Saran divisional commissioner to submit an action taken report (ATR) within four weeks’ time about every step taken by the state government after the hooch tragedy. Dinu Kumar and Ritika Rani represented the petitioner.
 
 The court also cited the example of seizure of a North Bengal State Transport Corporation (NBSTC) bus at Zero Mile in Begusarai just because liquor bottles were recovered from the luggage of a passenger travelling in it.
 
 The writ filed by NBSTC was also heard by the same court which ordered the Begusarai district magistrate to release the bus within a week. According to NBSTC’s counsel Manoj Kumar, the bus was seized on July 15 last year and its driver along with four other persons was arrested and sent to jail.
 
 On January 24, the court had served show-cause notice to state chief secretary as why such actions under prohibition law were being taken which were not only creating difficulties for the citizens at large but also multiplying the litigations in the court.
 
 Since the chief secretary could not submit his reply on Wednesday, the court granted him additional two weeks’ time. The police officials who had seized the bus were present in the court.
 
 The bench cited another incident when a banker was transporting his household goods from Noida to West Bengal after getting transferred. The vehicle with all household goods was seized because there was liquor bottle in it while passing through  . The banker, along with the vehicle owner and driver, was also booked under the prohibition law.
 
 The Chief Justice observed that such mechanical action taken by officials did not show any application of mind and analysis of facts in proper manner, causing sufferings not only to the people of Bihar but from other states as well.
 
 Govt reply sought on dumping carcasses on roadside, in rivers: 
 
 The Patna   on Wednesday ordered the state government and the   (PMC) to reply within three weeks’ time why had they failed to comply with its order of not dumping carcasses in rivers or on roadside.
 
 The division bench of Chief Justice Rajendra Menon and Justice Anil Kumar Upadhyay was hearing a contempt petition filed by social activist Vikash Chandra alias Guddu Baba. In 2010, he had urged the court to order the officials concerned for proper disposal of carcasses.
 
 The then Chief Justice Dipak Misra, now the Chief Justice of India, had ordered that no carcasses would be thrown into the Ganga or on its banks and even on roadside. He had also ordered for proper disposal of the carcasses and had fixed responsibility on sanitary inspectors of PMC to display their contact numbers at every nook and corner so that people could contact them for disposing carcasses.
 
 The petitioner, on Wednesday, submitted several pictures of carcasses dumped at multiple locations in Patna, which was a clear violation of the HC order.
 
 The petitioner told TOI that Rs3.97 crore was coughed up by the PMC for setting up an incinerator at Bairiya Ramchak in Patna for carcass disposal. “The incinerator started functioning on March 16 last year, but most of the time it remains out of order,” he said.
 
 
