BENGALURU: The   on Monday distanced itself from its social media head Divya Spandana’s controversial tweet that made a derogatory and personal attack on Prime Minister  , soon after she came under flak.

 Divya alias Ramya, former Mandya MP, had on Sunday taken a dig at Modi, wondering if he was on “pot” (cannabis), a putdown which invited sharp criticism. The actor-turned-politician’s swipe came following Modi’s comment at a rally here, during which he said farmers were his top priority and described ‘TOP’ as tomato, onion and potato. “Is this what happens when you’re on POT?” she tweeted.
 
 Reacting to the pot jibe, chief minister   said he is not aware of the tweet, but character assassination of any individual was not right.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 “I have countered Modi’s allegations point-by-point against our government, but refrained from making any personal attack. He may be our political rival, but I will not speak disrespectfully of the PM personally. We are in a federal structure. We have accepted the Constitution. We have to run the government in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. We can’t go against it. We are not the BJP to go against the Constitution,” he said.
 
 Hitting out at Ramya, BJP’s IT cell head Amit Malviya tweeted: “In Karnataka, more than 3,500 farmers have committed suicide under @ siddaramaiah’s watch, highest for any state in India but speaking for them is being on ‘POT’...Congress keeps it classy, again...”
 
 And in another tweet: “Will Rahul Gandhi maintain silence on Divya Spandana’s comment while he sacked Mani Shankar Aiyar just because his jibe came close to Gujarat election and Karnataka is still some months away? Or sacrificing his close aide, responsible for his rise as a leader, takes some courage?”
 
 To this Ramya replied: “Single Meaning plz ! Share it with those who have understood. If TOP means Tomato Onion Pakoda sorry Potato for @narendramodi, POT can also mean Potato Onion & Tomato for @divyaspandana Think Good!!!”
 
  
  
 
 
 
