KOLKATA: The importance of a passport notwithstanding, verification of applicants’ documents seems to be of low priority for the   Police. With law and order, investigations and VVIP security topping their assignment list, preparing   seems pretty low on their agenda. At the receiving end of this skewed preference are residents of Bengal, who have to wait the longest in the country to receive their passports, in many cases over three months after applying for the travel document.

 
 
  
  was the first police district in Bengal to adopt the mPassport.seva, an app that helped cops click an applicant’s photo, scan his/her documents at his/her home and upload the details online from the very spot, reducing the filing of the verification report drastically. When Rajiv Kumar became the Kolkata Police commissioner, he designated a nodal passport verification officer at every police station, apart from the centralised team under deputy commissioner, security control. This dramatically improved the Kolkata Police’s record in filing verification reports, bringing it down to a low seven-10 days. “But the system went haywire when new areas from   were included in the Kolkata Police districts, without sanction of additional manpower strength and the designated officers were deployed at various stations. The report filing period increased from 10 days to 20 days, and now 34 days on an average, far above the national average of 15 days.
 
  
 Howrah Police Commissionerate is the best performing police district in Bengal, with its average filing period being 10 days. “The credit largely goes to the young robust team of verification officers who are highly conversant in technology and do their job with a missionary zeal,” said Howrah police chief D P Singh.
 
 Shankar Topadar, an artisan from   town, ran from pillar to post to get his passport so that he could visit Indonesia for an exhibition. But owing to the long delay in police verification, he did not receive the passport on time. But Asansol-Durgapur police commissioner L N Meena seemed nonchalant: “There is no unnecessary delay for passport verification.” The average waiting period there is 77 days.
 
 
 
