In the latest episode of  , Naira stops Swarna from giving the jewellery and says that she would like to present it to Suhana herself. As Naira makes Suhana wear the necklace, Naira taunts her and asks her not to get too happy. 

 
 Kartik sees Naira and tells her that they don't have any proof to bring out Suhana's truth. As they talk, a stranger stares at Naira from a distance and says that Naira looked beautiful.
 
 Kirti asks Devyani to give her some kadha to drink as she wasn't feeling well. Devyani and Naksh are happy to hear this.
 
 As Naira goes to see the gifts and check on other preparations, the stranger manages to stick a note on the back of her dress. Naira reads the note and smiles, thinking that it was Kartik who did this. 
 
  
  
 Naira and Dadi wait for Suhana's uncle to come for the rituals. Savita reaches on time and says that her real brother won't be able to come on time so she has sought Naitik's help in the rituals. Naira is shocked to see them together. Suhana laughs at Naira. Naitik takes Suhana's hand and says she was just like his own daughter.
 
 The ceremony starts. As Naitik hands over the 'shagun' to Shubham from Suhana's side, Naira tries to explain to Shubham the importance of relations and asks him to tell Suhana that money should never be an important aspect in any relationship. Kartik supports her. Manish is happy to see them act mature. 
 
 Shubham says that he loved Suhana and doesn't want any dowry from her family. Naitik completes the rituals and hands him the auspicious tulsi leaves.
 
 The mehendi starts. Naira plays a game and asks all the ladies present there to ask their husbands to apply mehendi on their hands. Suhana says that she wanted her mehendi design to be beautiful. Kartik says that Shubham applying mehendi on her would be the test of true love.
 
 Shubham applies mehendi on Suhana's hand. Naira asks Kartik if he would be able to do the same on her. As she sits to get her mehendi done, the stranger comes and applies a tiny dot of mehendi on her hand before Kartik can get there. 
 
