KOLKATA: The   wants a full-fledged war against sellers of fake packaged drinking water in the city. Mayor   on Monday said he had a talk with city police commissioner   regarding the sale of contaminated packaged drinking water in Kolkata.

 “I spoke to the city police commissioner and sought his cooperation in nabbing the culprits doing brisk business in fake packaged drinking water. We have already launched a drive against the traders of fake packaged drinking water in the areas where an outbreak of enteric made hundreds ill,” Chatterjee said.
 
 Besides Kolkata Police, the civic body will also approach the state enforcement directorate to assist the   health team in its drive against spurious water, the mayor said.
 
 According to sources in the KMC health department, the civic body had already seized packaged drinking water containers from   and   and later laboratory tests confirmed those water had bacterial contamination.
 
 “We are in search of at least six packaged drinking-water manufacturing units in the outskirts of the city. We may need to take help of the neighbouring municipalities to test bottled water being produced at these units,” Atin Ghosh, member, mayor-in-council overseeing the KMC health department.
 
 At least two of these units are located in South 24 Parganas beyond the KMC’s jurisdiction. In fact, a team of inspectors from the KMC health department had located a factory producing packaged drinking water and selling those to the entire city three days ago. However, when the inspectors were about to zero in on the factory, the employees locked the factory and ran away.
 
 Asection of the KMC water supply department officials, however, maintained that some manufacturing units were being operated from the city without taking a trade license from the civic body. “We need to conduct surprise raids on these units before the owners get alerted. Some of these units are located in the southern fringes and are doing good business. We will send our inspectors along with a police team to close the illegal units,” said a civic body health department official.
 
