COIMBATORE: Six youths who started their higher education as meritorious college students in a leading education institution in the city have ended up behind the bars after becoming   peddlers.

 The city police arrested the six students for possession of 2kg of ganja for sales at Codissia Road near Peelamedu on Friday. Police said the students were staying in a rental room at   in Peelamedu and bought ganja from Bengaluru in Karnataka. The six were selling ganja to several other college students in and around Peelamedu. The arrested six were lodged at the Coimbatore central prison on late Friday evening. The arrested students were identified as V Manikandan, 21, of Hosur in Krishnagiri, M Akshay, 20, of Kunnathur in Tirupur, S Gopalakrishnan, 21, of Boyampalayam in Tirupur, S Vignesh, 21, of Kangeyam Road in Tirupur, R Sriram, 21, of Puliyampatti in Erode district, and R Arjun, 21, of Gandhipuram in Mettupalayam. 
 
 Manikandan, Vignesh and Arjun were studying BE (robotics). Sriram and Gopalakrishnan were studying final year BBA (information systems) and Akshay was studying final year BSc (electronics). 
 
 The Peelamedu police got a tip-off that a few youth were selling ganja regularly on Codissia Road. They nabbed the youths along with the contraband. Preliminary investigations revealed that some of the arrested students were using ganja for the last one year.
 
 A few months ago, the students visited Bengaluru where they met a ganja supplier and bought 1kg of ganja for Rs 10,000 from him. Later, they sold it to many students who were staying in college hostels and rental rooms and earned profit of more than Rs 10,000 per kg. They used to divide the profit. Subsequently, they started buying ganja from Bengaluru and sold it in Coimbatore.
 
 Of late, the Bengaluru supplier himself visited Coimbatore to supply ganja to the six students for sales. “We have collected the details of the Bengaluru-based ganja seller and formed a special team to nab him,” said a police officer. The Peelamedu police registered a case against the six students under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and remanded them in judicial custody. The students were lodged at the Coimbatore central prison.
 
 
