JAIPUR: The ban on   (bajri) mining in the state has given rise to a new mafia along many stretches of the  .

 Vehicles illegally transporting sand earn a profit of up to Rs 3,000 per trip. Sources told TOI that ever since the ban was imposed on  , middlemen, transporters and police have forged a nexus to profit from the sand crunch.
 
 
 “It is in areas like   where the mining is most rampant. The mining mafia continues to extract sand in the evening, load them into trucks at night, and transport them illegally, right under the nose of the police,” an official said. For those who dare to defy the law, the ban has come as a boon. 
  
 
 The prize of the sand ranged between Rs 750 to Rs 800 a tonne before the Apex court imposed a blanket ban in November 2017.
 
 The current prize of sand in the illegal market is between Rs 2,500 to Rs 3,000 a tonne. With profit margins so high, the sand mafia is willing to take whatever risks required to carry on with the business.
 
 “It’s a free for all and the machinery to enforce the ban is still very weak. There is widespread connivance which is resulting in rampant illegal mining and transportation,” the official said.
 
 Sources told TOI that the mafia allegedly shares it profits with officials who are entrusted with keeping a check on illegal transportation. “Earlier the state mining department had border home guards at its disposal, who were deployed for enforcing the mining norms. However, the home guards were subsequently withdrawn and the department now relies on the help of   (RAC),” said an official.
 
 But getting a RAC personnel is a tough task for the mining department. “A lot of procedures have to be followed by officials from the level of commandant to SP for deployment. Often, these RAC units are moved to another place at a short notice,” the official said.
 
 There have been many untoward incidents due to illegal mining in the state. On February 15, sarpanch Raghuveer Singh Meena (50) died after he was attacked by suspects involved in illegal sand mining at Bowli village in Sawai Madhopur.
 
 On Wednesday, five of a family was killed after a tractor illegally transporting sand hit their bike in Lalsot in Dausa. Villagers alleged that cops were allowing movement of vehicles carrying sand after taking bribe from the mafia.
 
