NASHIK:   Payment Corporation of India ( ) will focus on   district in Maharashtra and   in Kerala for pushing the digital payment systems to the last man. 

 Briefing media persons along with officials from NPCI, district collector Radhakrishnan B, said Nashik has been selected for pilot project given the potential of the district as evaluated by the NPCI from the data of digital payments after demonetisation.
 
 Under this pilot project, the NPCI will conduct special camp for traders in February and give them QR codes that will enable them to receive payments from consumers through digital payment mode and thus encourage the cashless system.
 
 "Generally, getting a QR code requires a fee of Rs 1,500 and at the same a trader is charged an amount for every transaction. But for the camp, the fees has been completely waived off and for the next two years any transaction below Rs 2,000 will be absolutely free," the collector said.
 
 Giving further details, Radhakrishnan said there were several factors that resulted in Nashik being the choice of the  .
 
 "The various factors considered by the NCPI include digital payments made by people immediately after demonetisation, digital payment-enabled villages, awareness programmes taken, infrastructure raised for boosting digital payments, levels of literacy and acceptance of new technology, potential of businesses (small and big), among others. Nashik probably shared the top position with Kottayam. Hence, the NCPI chose these two placed to launch its pilot project of bringing traders on board for digital payments," he said.
 
 A three-day camp will be held at Nashik, from February 5 to 7, where the NPCI hopes to reach out to at least 3,000 traders enabling them to get payments directly to their accounts, most importantly without any mediator.
 
 "There are numbers of applications in the market that facilitate payment but most of them are wallets where a consumer is expected to park his money before being utilized for payment. At the same time the money coming in from others is also first parked in wallet before being manually transferred to the account," an official from NCPI said, adding there was always a risk involved.
 
 "Instead, the QR code presented by the NCPI will enable direct transfer of amount from bank to bank - be it cooperative or private or public sector undertaking," he added. 
 
 
