GURUGRAM: The last week’s incident wherein a 29-year-old woman delivered a stillborn in an ambulance on the way to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital was the failure of the entire health department, claimed the two doctors who were suspended for alleged negligence at the  . 

 Dr Jyoti Dabas and Dr Harpreet also alleged that the woman, a resident of Daultabad village in Pataudi, was not provided preliminary care at the local primary health centre.
 
 According to government policies, the doctors claimed, there are ground-level staff, including Asha workers, who are responsible for monitoring pregnant women in their areas. 
 
 It was not done in this particular case, as a result of which the woman was brought to their attention at the last minute when she was already in a critical state, they alleged. And the General Hospital lacked facilities to handle such critical cases, they maintained.
 
 Dr Dabas said they had written to Haryana Civil Medical Services (HCMS), the association of doctors, and would also approach the deputy commissioner and other senior authorities, seeking scrapping of the suspension order. 
 
 To drive her point home, Dr Dabas further said the death of the child inside the womb and the subsequent delivery inside the ambulance had happened because primary care given to the patient at Pataudi was insufficient.
 
 She claimed the patient had gone to the government hospital in Pataudi on April 23. Seeing that the patient had such a low haemoglobin count, doctors there should have sent her to the Gurugram hospital on April 23 itself. “An Asha worker should have been made to accompany the patient,” she said.
 
 Further, the two suspended doctors claimed the number of patients visiting the General Hospital had been rising constantly, increasing the load on the already over-burdened government doctors. “The patient, Soniya, was brought in a serious state and had to be referred to the Safdarjung Hospital because of the lack of facilities at the Civil Hospital,” she said.
 
 The doctors said the authorities were trying to fool the public being making them scapegoats, and that the blame rested squarely on the department.
 
 A senior doctor, who is a member of the Haryana Civil Services Association, said, “We would seek an appointment with the state health minister and put forward the point of view of the suspended doctors.”
 
 
