VADODARA: Having a marriage in your family? Now, you will be able to organise marriage functions, receptions or even mega exhibitions with airport building in the backdrop. 

 The   (AAI) have decided to utilise old airport building of Vadodara by renting out its space for such functions. 
 
 “In order to increase our revenue and make Vadodara airport profit making, we have decided to rent out portions of the old airport building including the arrival area and the lush green garden near the building for such functions,” Vadodara airport director   told TOI on Saturday.
 
 “We also have an open plot spread across one lakh square meter near the airport circle which can be used for organising mega exhibitions or mega fairs. Anybody, who is interested can get in touch with our commercial department and book it for shorter durations,” he said. 
 
 Singh during a presentation before the airport advisory committee that met on Saturday explained the benefits of utilising the old airport building to the members of the committee. 
 
 “Those who want to organise seminars can use space inside the old building. It will also be convenient for organisers of international conferences and seminars as guests can simply come down at the new terminal building and reach the old airport building which is located just adjacent to it,” he said. 
 
 Presently, some of the administrative offices of AAI officials are located on the departure side of the old airport building. 
 
 During the committee’s meeting in which Vadodara MP  , representatives from district administration,  , police department and airlines were also present, ways to reduce traffic congestion on airport road, acquisition of land for extension of runway and construction of parallel taxi-track was also discussed. 
 
 Currently, in order to avoid parking charges, many taxi drivers keep their vehicles stranded on the main road leading to heavy traffic congestion. 
 
 AAI officials have requested support from the district administration to reduce the traffic congestion in the area. 
 
 On Friday, AAI officials had organised Republic Day celebrations in which physically handicapped and blind children were invited to give feel of the new terminal building. The visually impaired children were also gifted braille books and given the experience to sit inside aircrafts. 
 
 
