NEW DELHI: This year’s   will be a special one for Indian viewers as the young   sensation from India,   will playing his first Major after receiving a special invitation to compete in the Masters.

 Shubhankar has been invited during a breakthrough season, which includes two wins over four months and a top-10 finish in his first PGA Tour event and for the 21-year-old, this opportunity is nothing less than any fantasy. 
 
 “I dreamt of it to happen almost from the first day I started playing, and it finally did – I drove down the Magnolia Lane, perhaps the single most significant little driveway in the world for a professional golfer,” wrote Shubhankar in his column for TOI, adding” The tree-lined drive is no more than an average par-4, almost a non-descript turn off the Washington Road in the city of Augusta. But if you are taking it in the second week of April, chances are that you have done something right in your chosen profession. At the end of Magnolia Lane is Augusta National Golf Club – the equivalent of Narnia for those who have pursued excellence in the Royal and Ancient sport.”
 
 He became the youngest player from India to win on the European Tour at the Joburg Open in December. He earned his second win at the Maybank Championship in February and then made his PGA Tour debut at the WGC-Mexico Championship and finished T-9 after holding the lead after 36 and 54 holes. This will be Shubhankar’s first Masters appearance.
 
 “I have always dreamt of playing the Masters, and my first day at Augusta National was everything that I expected it to be and more,” he wrote. 
 
 The tournament will be taking place at Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia, USA from 6th April to 9th April, 2018.
 
 “The experience is beyond any that words can describe – right from walking in the hallowed gates to soaking up the history and traditions of the place, to playing my first practice round. Everything has been surreal. It was just awesome out there. I have never seen so many fans out on a golf course on a Monday,” he added. 
 
 
