COIMBATORE: The city crime branch police on Saturday seized four omni buses, as many trucks and a goods autorickshaw from a  , who cheated three private banks of more than Rs 3 crore.

 The conman, along with his wife, was arrested a few days ago and they were remanded in judicial custody. On Friday, the police had got the man’s custody for four days. The police said they were yet to seize 11 more vehicles, including four omni buses, from him.
 
 According to an investigation officer,  , 44, of   near Saibaba Colony, had taken a loan of Rs 1.38 crore from Yes Bank on Avinashi Road in 2016-17 and bought four omni buses, four trucks and a goods autorickshaw.
 
 “He owns Kings Travels at New Siddhapudur. When he failed to pay the equated monthly instalments (EMI), bank officials asked him to produce the vehicles. Ragunathan, however, shifted all the vehicles to other states,” the officer said.
 
 Meanwhile, Ragunathan forged the registration certificates of the vehicles and pledged the documents with HDB finance for Rs 1.49 crore, HDFC bank for Rs 95.45 lakh and Kotak Mahendra bank for Rs 31.04 lakh. He also borrowed loans from Sundaram finance. “He did not repay any loan,” the officer said.
 
 S Perumalsamy, area collection manager of Yes Bank, Coimbatore, lodged a complaint with the city police commissioner K Periaiah, who ordered the crime branch police to take action immediately.
 
 The city crime branch registered a case against Ragunathan and his wife  , 38, an assistant professor of a deemed university, under Sections 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy), 406 (criminal conspiracy), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 506 (i) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested them a week ago.
 
 The city crime branch police filed a petition before the judicial magistrate court-III, seeking the custody of Ragunathan. The court on Friday granted them Ragunathan’s custody for four days and asked the police to produce him before the court on May 15.
 
 On Friday evening, the police seized four omni bus, four trucks and a goods autorickshaw from Ragunathan. “We have to seize 11 more vehicles from him. He got the loans only because bank officials did not check the vehicle documents properly. So, we will question bank officials and arrest them if needed,” said a senior police official.
 
 
