PATNA: Students of classes I to VIII studying in government and government-aided schools will no longer have to wait for   in their schools as the state education department has decided to transfer the money meant for purchase of textbooks to the minor   of the children from the current academic session.

 Minor bank account is jointly held by the parent or guardian and can be operated by them on behalf of the minor below 10 years of age. Once the minors attain the age of 10 years, they can access the account on their own.
 
 Delay in distribution of textbooks supplied by Bihar State Textbook Publishing Corporation Limited (BSTPCL) was a major problem students of government and government-aided schools were facing in the state.
 
 For instance, only 40% schoolchildren received textbooks last year while some schools got the books just a month before the commencement of final year examination. Around 2.10 crore children study in government schools from classes I to VIII in the state.
 
 With the commencement of new session in government schools, BSTPCL has empaneled 54 printing agencies to print the books. An official of education department said giving cash to students for the purchase of books would reduce the burden on the education department and the teachers.
 
 BSTPCL managing director M   on Friday said the corporation has roped in 54 printing agencies and the school heads will be informed about it soon. “Schoolchildren can now buy books from the market by withdrawing money from their bank accounts,” Chandrudu added.
 
 State project director of   Sanjay Singh said the department has provided syllabus to all schools. “There are ample of assignments for the students in the syllabus. Even last year, we provided assessment handbooks to all school teachers. The handbooks included questions and answers of each chapter. For the time being, students can study from this handbook,” he said.
 
 President of Bihar State Primary Teachers’ Association Brijnandan Sharma said the association has been demanding grant to students for books for a long time. “It is good that the government has taken the right initiative. Now, teachers should also be freed from other works like midday meal and election duty,” Sharma added.
 
 
