CHANDIGARH: The short service commission (SSC) officers of the defence forces, who face hardship while resettling after leaving their jobs, found their voice in the Haryana assembly on Thursday when finance minister   urged the House to think about introducing honorarium for the state domicile officers.

 Capt Abhimanyu, who served as an SSC officer from 1988-1993 in 7 Mechanized   (1 Dogra), had raised the issue in the assembly during the discussion on a bill about the salary and pension of the MLAs. The issue before the House was to determine the pension and allowances of the MLAs on completion of their tenure, which is normally for five years.
 
 While raising the issue on the last day of the ongoing budget session,   turned nostalgic and explained that there was no provision of pension or perks to the SSC officers who give prime years of their life to the armed forces.
 
 “The SSC officers make a great contribution to the country and society. They have fixed tenure of 5-7 years in service and spend the most productive period of their life for the country. Sometimes they attain martyrdom or become physically disabled. Earlier, they used to get special quota for selection in civil services but the now there are no such policies. After coming back to civil life, they have to struggle and strive for their survival in absence of any financial backup,” an emotionally-charged Abhimanyu told the House.
 
 “The government should have some provision of an honorarium for such SSC officers of the state. I leave it to the House to think and decide,” he said.
 
 Though everyone in the House heard him patiently, nobody responded on the issue and the state assembly was adjourned sine die. The SSC officers of the Army, Air Force and   have been demanding the provision of pension from the central government for a long time.
 
 They are being recruited in the defence forces for the past around 50 years. At present there are around 15,000 SSC officers from all three forces who have been denied such rights.
 
 SSC officers are normally commissioned between 21 and 24 years and give the prime of their youth to the forces. They are considered a neglected lot as they do not get pension and medical facilities, which the permanent commissioned officers get. They are organizing and demanding pro-rata pension and medical facilities.
 
