THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: It was only a few days ago the state police chief directed his subordinates to form Whatsapp groups based on the police stations they are attached to so as to facilitate quick sharing of information among them. And, the city police are using the Whatsapp groups to the best to keep criminals at bay.

 The police have prepared a list of 14 most notorious woman   from Tamil Nadu, who were known to hit the city every year during the temple festival seasons. Their photos, which were taken when they were arrested in the past, were collected and were circulated among these new Whatsapp groups so as to help the   to watch out for them.
 
 “Actually, there are a lot of habitual offenders who visit the city from our neighbouring state during temple festival season. We ran a background check of them ahead of the Attukal   festival and found out that these 14 women were currently out of jail,” said city special branch assistant commissioner A Pramod Kumar.
 
 The anticipation of the cops did not go wrong. On Sunday, three among the 14 women in the list were arrested by the Vattiyoorkavu police for snatching a three sovereign gold chain worn by a devotee at Irukunnam Devi Temple at Nettayam. The accused were identified as Savithri alias Divya, 32; her sister Geetha alias Karthika, 34; and Muthulakshmi alias Sugandhi, 40; all residents of Moonnam Theruvu near Meenakshi Amman Temple at Madurai.
 
 The three accused allegedly snatched a gold chain weighing 3 sovereigns worn by a devotee during the ‘Annadanam’ feast at the temple as part of the annual festival. The complainant was washing her hands after the feast when the accused committed the crime using the crowd around them as a cover.
 
 The police said three accused were involved in several similar cases recorded at various police stations across the state. Among the accused, Muthulakshmi was released from a Tamil Nadu jail only a week ago after she was arrested for a crime committed there.
 
 The Whatsapp group is not the only measure adopted by the cops to watch out for repeat offenders. They have sought help from their counterparts from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka to assist them in identifying thieves from outside the state. Both the departments have sent cops, who are familiar with noted criminals from their states so that they could be used as spotters here. Tamil Nadu has sent a team of 12 cops and Karnataka, six.
 
 
