GHAZIABAD: An employee of a private company was booked for criminal breach of trust after he alleged that he was robbed of Rs 16 lakh by bike-borne men on   in Ghaziabad on Saturday. 

 The employee, Abhishek, had told police that he had collected the cash from an agent, Avdesh, in Rawli Road of Muradnagar and was taking it to the corporate office of his company in Sector 127. 
 
 “According to the victim, two men on a red-coloured bike blocked his path near an under-construction rotary. They parked the bike right across the car. Then one man got down and snatched the cash bag from the victim after threatening him with a revolver. He said he was too shocked to react,” said local police outpost in-charge, Balram Yadav. 
 
 However, the police filed an FIR against Abhishek at Muradnagar police station after Nishant, manager of the Noida-based private firm, where Abhishek is an employee, alleged in the complaint that they suspect him to have swindled the cash by concocting a cock-and-bull story.
 
 The victim, Abhisek, was rushed to the Vardaan Multi-Specialty Hospital on Meerut Road after he complained of shock and trauma. He was discharged from the hospital subsequently.
 
 Police questioned labourers and other eyewitnesses at the spot where Abhisek was allegedly robbed. Abhisek has told police that the incident took place at around 1:20 pm.
 
 “No one seemed to have witnessed the incident even the place is busy and crowded owing to the ongoing construction work. Abhisek used to transfer cash for his firm at times. He informed cops around one hour after the incident. Instead of calling police immediately, he claims to have called up Avdesh who arrived at the spot on a motorcycle and rushed him to the hospital. There are discrepancies in his narration of events. Abhisek later told police that he had been brought to the hospital in his car. Abhisek claims he had collected Rs 16 lakh. But his agent claims he had handed over Rs 14 lakh to him,” SP (Rural) Arvind Maurya told TOI.
 
 Ghaziabad police have taken Abhisek’s mobile phone into possession and examining the call detail records. Police are investigating the case from all angles.
 
 
