ERODE: DMK working president   on Sunday said his party would not accept any forum other than the   (CMB) to find a solution to the water dispute with the neighbouring state Karnataka. 

 While addressing the party’s zonal meeting in Erode, Stalin said he would not give up the rights of   for others. “We will not relent until the CMB is formed to save farmers in the state,” he said. He assured to take a decision on the party’s next move if the central government failed to constitute CMB before March 29. 
 
 He also slammed prime minister   for not giving appointment to an all-party delegation from the state to meet him on the Cauvery issue. 
 
 As many as 51 resolutions were passed at the DMK meeting. One of the resolutions condemned the central and state governments for not constituting the CMB and warned that the party would organise a massive protest if they failed to constitute the board. 
 
 The party also made it clear that it would not accept any attempt to introduce Hindi in the state school curriculum. Other resolutions urged the government to take responsibility for damaging Thanthai Periyar statues in the state, conduct local body election, not to convert delta districts into petroleum corridor, reconsider bus fare hike, bring lok ayuktha in the state, not to privatise   and implement water projects such as Athikkadavu-Avinashi, and Pandiyaru-Punnampuzha. 
 
 The one-year-old EPS government was reeling under Rs 6.5 lakh crore debts, he said. “Yet, the government is spending people’s tax money for giving advertisements in the media,” he added. 
 
 Stalin also hit out at the government on issues such as farmer suicide, KIA Motors moving its plant to Andhra Pradesh after the government asked commission and scam in walkie-talkie procurement. The DMK working president also blamed the AIADMK government for not maintaining law and order in the state. 
 
 Stalin urged the state government to learn a lesson from Andhra Pradesh chief minister Chandrababu Naidu’s recent decision of withdrawing support to the central government. 
 
 He concluded his speech by appealing the party cadres to work for DMK’s victory in the upcoming assembly election. 
 
 
