INDORE: They screamed their lungs out without a care in the world. They clasped each other tightly as all the pent-up emotions of the last few months erupted. Tears of happiness was flowing all around.   players, who entered the final after surprising wins in the previous two knockout rounds, finally got an opportunity to celebrate.

 ‘Come on…Vidarbha….come on…Vidarbha’ reverberated at the Holkar Stadium as Vidarbha players huddled at the wicket. As the Sun started to set in Indore on Monday, it marked the dawn of a new era in the Vidarbha’s cricket history.
 
 When   pulled Kulwant Khejroliya twice and drew level with a boundary and a single, Vidarbha players had got ready for the sprint. At 5pm, Khejroliya bowled short again. It was action replay as Jaffer pulled again for a four, then raised his bat and hands towards the dressing room, with a sagely smile.
 
 If anybody deserved to hit the winning runs after captain  , it was Jaffer. The elegant opener has played eight Ranji Trophy finals for Mumbai before this but never had a chance to hit the winning runs. It was probably destiny that he do it for Vidarbha in his 9th final. At 39, he has added another feat to his illustrious career.
 
 Faiz and the other players dashed to the middle and had Jaffer in an unabashed embrace. Coach Chandrakant Pandit, bowling coach Subroto Bannerjee, trainer Amiya Kumar Mohanty, physio Niraj Karamchandani, video analyst Aniruddha Deshpande and vice-president Prashant Vaidya joined them. Over the last few years, Vidarbha had started gaining some respect from the opposing teams. Now, no one will take them lightly.
 
 Vidarbha have produced great allrounders like SA Rahim, Murthyrajan, Hemant Wasu, Pravin Hinganikar; great fast bowlers like Ashok Bhagwat, Madhukar Rao Sathe and Prashant Vaidya; some quality batsmen like Kamraj Kesri, Anil Deshpande, Vijay Telang, Suhas Phadkar and Samir Gujar and great spinners like Mohd Siddique, Arun Ogiral and Preetam Gandhe.
 
 However, none of them have played a  , let alone win the title. Faiz and his boys have embossed their names in gold in Indian cricket history, defeating Delhi by nine wickets to end a six-decade drought. It aptly came in the land of Holkars, who Nagpur’s son CK Nayudu had led to four titles.
 
 As the excitement settled and the players were called for the presentation ceremony, the players were joined by the Vidarbha Cricket Association president Anand Jaiswal and secretary Bhupinder Singh Bhatti. Senior groundsmen of VCA Dilip Thool, Ashish Roshankhede and Rohan Thakur too were called to join the merrymaking. Skipper Faiz and Pandit embraced them with utmost respect. They knew how hard the groundsmen have worked behind the scenes.
 
 When Faiz got the Trophy in his hands, he again screamed, “Come on lads.” Everyone joined. Faiz handed it over to 19-year-old Aditya Thakare, the medium-pacer who was making his Ranji debut and impressed all with his first innings spell. Everyone touched it, had a feel of it before posing for the lensmen. All the while, they kept shouting ‘Come on Vidarbha’.
 
 Vidarbha has certainly come a long way this season. It’s nothing less than a fairy-tale story.
 
 After the presentation ceremony, Faiz greeted his lucky charm, daughter Rozina, wife Tarana and parents, Yakoob and Jenab. It was a proud moment for the Fazal family. They have seen his highs and lows for the last two decades. Faiz wanted his daughter to see what he has achieved.
 
 The families of bowling coach Subroto Bannerjee, all-rounder Karn Sharma, Ganesh Satish, Shalabh Shrivastava, Siddhesh Neral, Akshay Wadkar and other players too joined in the merrymaking. All were emotional. The players have achieved something which will forever change the fortunes of the Vidarbha cricket.
 
 For the generation next, Faiz & Co. have become role models.
 
 
