BENGALURU: In the clearest indication yet that   is techies’ preferred mode of commute,  , with a maximum daily footfall of 28,300 passengers, has emerged as the busiest   hub in the city, overtaking   station (27,500).   (17,700),   (16,000) and MG Road (14,900) are the other stations in the top five in terms of daily footfall.

 On the other hand,   Industry (1,500) and Peenya (2,800) are among the stations with the lowest daily ridership, which suggests that bluecollar workers prefer the cheaper option of BMTC buses. Other Metro stations that have a low daily footfall include Deepanjali Nagar (4,000), Kuvempu Road (4,300), Lalbagh (4,300) and Yeshwantpur Industry (4,400).
 
 
  
 “Byappanahalli has a higher footfall since it is a terminus an d also because of its proximity to IT companies in  , ITPL and Bellandur,” said AS Shankar, executive director of operations and maintenance, BMRCL. “It is next to a railway station, so it attracts more people.”
 
 Away from the tech corridor, Namma Metro’s relatively higher cost of commute works against it.
 
 
 
 
 That the daily footfall is the highest in Byappanahalli Metro station and lowest at Peenya Industry is a clear indicator that techies prefer the Metro rail, while blue-collar workers continue to use BMTC buses.
 
 Vinay Srinivasa of Bengaluru Bus Prayanikara Vedike, an NGO, said, “Most regular passengers, especially workers, have monthly bus passes, which is a cheaper option. The Metro is faster and reliable, but workers prefer BMTC because of the cost factor, even if they have to take multiple buses.”
 
 Another downside has been an increase in vehicular traffic on some roads around Metro stations. Commuters say Old Madras Road, Swami Vivekananda Road and Kasturinagar Road are a case in point. The Byappanahalli Metro station sees heavy vehicular traffic flowing from areas like KR Puram, Whitefield, ITPL and Ramamurthy Nagar. Commuters say they prefer private vehicles and taxis over BMTC’s feeder buses, causing severe congestion on Old Madras Road.
 
 “There is a urgent need for a foot over-bridge in front of Byappanahalli station on Old Madras Road, to ensure pedestrians cross safely,” said S Ramanand, a regular commuter.
 
 However, the congestion at Byappanahalli Metro station is expected to clear after completion of work on the 15.5km \line from Byappanahalli to Whitefield. The stretch — Reach 1A and Reach 1BByappanahalli - Visvesvaraya Industrial Area - Whitefield) — will have 13 stations.
 
 
 
 BMRCL records show that Namma Metro’s average daily ridership has increased by almost 12 times since 2011. The average daily number of commuters has increased from 28,007 in 2011 to 3.4 lakh. In fact, daily ridership touched a record 4.1 lakh (2.3 lakh on Purple Line and 1.8 lakh on Green Line) in January. BMRCL officials said the dramatic increase came after the entire first phase was completed. “With enhanced capacity of trains and work on to build a bigger network, the trend can only consolidate,” said Mahendra Jain, BMRCL MD.
 
  
