LUCKNOW: Spiralling sugarcane dues to farmers - a bulk of it in   - emerged as the most defining issue in the two bypolls in UP. While the saffron brigade tried to polarize the atmosphere by raising   portrait issue in AMU, rising cane dues not only neutralised its impact, but also made farmers rise above the caste and communal divide. 

 
 Even PM Modi's promise to bring relief at a rally in Baghpat a day before polling failed to fetch votes for the  .
 
 The BJP had gone full throttle in Kairana, with CM   leading the poll campaign in four rallies.
 
  The party has 18 MLAs, all Jats from the region, and Kairana is the territory of state sugarcane minister Suresh Rana. In addition, BJP organisational secretary Sunil Bansal along with UP ministers and general secretaries had been supervising the campaign.
 
 Despite its rigorous campaign, the Central and state leaderships of the BJP failed to gauge the simmering anger and anguish in west UP over mounting cane dues and escalating fuel prices. Kairana has six sugar mills - four private and two run by cooperative societies - and their arrears have spiralled to Rs 796 crore. Sugarcane is the sole source of livelihood for lakhs of farmers in this region. And unlike other regions, these cane cultivators hold sway in state politics and economics. Farmers had been holding demonstrations to demand payment of cane arrears. In fact, a farmer had died while protesting in Baghpat just a day before voting. 
 
 Ajit Singh's   sensed the mood on the ground as it went from village to village. The party focussed on Jat pride and also mobilised the farmers' anager against the Yogi government. RLD carefully avoided falling into the communal agenda stoked by the saffron brigade. "While touring the districts we realized the anger among farmers against the BJP government. We appealed to the farmers to rise above caste and not fall into BJP's communal trap and instead focus on their issues," said RLD vice-president Jayant Chaudhary. "Our slogan was to defeat Jinnah and fight for ganna," he told TOI.
 
 The joint Opposition vigorously raised the issue of cane arrears amounting to Rs 13,000 crore in the poll campaign. "Rs 13,000 crore cane arrears indicate poor governance in the state," said a senior UP bureaucrat who has also served in cane department.
 
 The saffron brigade's attempts to polarise voters in communally sensitive west UP also failed. In his speeches, Yogi had attacked Akhilesh Yadav by saying "his hands were soaked in blood of Muzaffarnagar communal riots". 
 
 The party also raked up the issue of exodus of Hindus from the region in the aftermath of Muzaffarnagar riots. The Election commission had also lodged an FIR against a BJP MP for using unsavoury language against Muslims.
 
