SHIMLA: Adopting a tough stand on the   taking place in the core area of the town, especially along the Mall, the Himachal Pradesh high court has directed the MC commissioner to remove the unauthorized construction and ensure that no such construction is raised by anyone.

 On the basis of a petition, residents of the Mall here had highlighted inaction on part of the MC in not checking unauthorized construction being carried out in the shape of a tin shed by   along the Mall. It was pointed out in the petition that by taking advantage of the elections, right in the heart of the city in close proximity of the Mall, unauthorized construction had been carried out by the abovesaid person.
 
 The court has impleaded the MC through its commissioner as respondent party, along with Kukreja and HP State Electricity Board through its executive director. It requested senior counsel B C Negi and counsel   to assist the court as amicus curiae. During the hearing of case, the commissioner informed the court that the construction being carried out was unauthorized. He said that the proceedings under the provisions of HP Municipal Corporation Act already stood initiated.
 
 “We cannot wait for such proceedings to culminate. Some harsh measures are required to be taken,” observed a division bench of Acting Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice   in an order issued on Wednesday.
 
 “If construction is being carried out in the heart of the town with impunity, then we see no reason as to why it should not be pulled down and the property restored to its original n/shape forthwith, even if it is to be carried out of the expenditure to be incurred by the Shimla MC, which can be recovered through arrears of land revenue from the person who carried out such unauthorized construction,” it added.
 
 The court directed the commissioner to forthwith have the unauthorized construction removed. During the hearing, additional advocate general stated that if so required, necessary police force shall be deployed and both DC and SP, Shimla, shall render all assistance for getting the order implemented. The court also directed that the buildings adjoining or in close vicinity be inspected and similar action taken if any unauthorized construction comes to the notice of the commissioner.
 
 It further directed that water and electricity supply to the main building, be it commercial or residential or both, in question be disconnected forthwith, for which action shall be taken by the commissioner. The court has listed the matter for Friday and has asked for filing of the affidavit of compliance.
 
