CHANDIGARH: Kusum Jaglan, 30, created quite a stir when she joined an IT firm eight years ago. The notion of a woman being adept in a technical field was generally scoffed at. Eight years on, she has sailed through raised eyebrows and dismissive attitudes to be a project manager with an IT firm in Chandigarh. In the face of deeply entrenched bias, Kusum says she relied on hard work to prove her mettle.

 “Women are more sincere towards their jobs and they follow processes to a T, leaving no room for errors. Men are more casual than women. Earlier, men used to be technologically updated but now women are more in tune with developments in the digital world. Sometime back, the perception was that women can do MBA but the tech world is a man’s forte. All this has changed now. There are more women in the IT field,” said  , president, Chandigarh Technology Park, BTS Association.
 He has even instructed his company to hire more women than men. His reason: “women spend more years in an organisation as compared to men. They can be relied upon in that sense," he said.
 
 
 
 
 The professional world was a hurdle race for Neha. In her case, the beginning of professional life coincided with motherhood. At a time when new professionals learn the ropes and carve a niche, Neha was juggling a young family and a new career. She quit in six months. She took to teaching thinking this would enable her to strike that elusive work-life balance. But the IT dream was always at the back of her mind. Soon, the nagging feeling became a passion which prompted her to give up teaching and join a tech company. That was 2014. Three years later, she is the director of this tech firm. Recalling the past, Grover talks about the odds she faced as she struggled to take care of her family and manage a career. But she did not give up. “I sought my mother’s help and left my baby with her. Now, at six, she goes to day care,” said Grover. Since her family is based in Sirsa, she relocated to Chandigarh to further professional interests. She says her daughter grew up with an understanding of her mother’s work demands and does not get in the way. “Earlier, communication in my company was always dealt with by men but gradually women in my company are taking the lead. We are the ones heading IT , telecom and HR as well,” Grover said. She also has a message for women. “We are empowered and with determination, we can conquer the world,” she said.
 
 
 
 Even as a child, Priyanka Saklani was enraptured by science, maths and technology. She decided to make passion her profession and established  , which gives   to schools, universities and institutions, enhancing their concept of robotics. However, it has not been easy.
 
 Explaining why few women make it to the top in the world of tech, she said, “it is a male-dominated society, especially in challenging and high-risk jobs. Women usually seek roles which give them more comfort instead of professional growth. Under pressure from society, they tend to choose the most convenient options.”
 
 She has faced people’s unwillingness to trust a woman professional. “People do not trust a woman’s convictions very easily. I was rejected by various institutions and individuals when I decided to start an enterprise. Finding the right people to hire was a major problem. Also, a major challenge was to source capital for my enterprise, which I got through Stand-up India scheme.”
 
 
 
 Striking a balance in personal and professional life is the key to success for women in any field and the tech world is not an exception, said  . She would know, considering that she founded two firms, TT Consultants and XLPAT - Technology Evaluation Platform.
 
 She founded the first company in 2006, when she was in the final year of law and had one employee. Today, she has offices all over the world. The team also includes 250 engineers and lawyers.
 
 “I did not want to get into practice in courts and wanted to do something global. I have been brought up to be independent. I asked my parents to give me one year as I had an idea. When I started and travelled, I realized it was in great demand globally and so I hired a team and we rolled on.”
 
 Talking about why we do not see women leaders in the tech world, she said, “I think it is not just a problem in India but around the world. Nowhere in the world do you find women leaders. “Women in this country have various socio-cultural barriers. There is also the pressure to be a good wife, mother, daughter and daughter-in-law. Reaching the top, especially in the tech world needs a lot of time and travelling, which is difficult for women. It is very important to have an understanding family because this can make or break your career. Besides, women in India do not have the appetite for risk taking.” According to her, the tech world is abuzz with opportunities. “The world is largely flat now and all of us, irrespective of gender and other factors, have equal opportunities to create new apps and code. There is a lot of emphasis worldwide about women who can code and teaching women how to code. Coding is going to be a highdemand industry and will have some of the best paid jobs.
 
