AMRAVATI: Swaraj India president   said the rebellion staged by farmers and youths of Maharashtra for justice has infused new enthusiasm in the country, triggering a great political crisis. These farmers and youths have the potential to pull the nation out of the crisis, he added.

 He was delivering a lecture on ‘Indian Democracy-Social Situation’ at Matoshri Vimlabai Deshmukh auditorium on the eve of Shiv Jayanti. Organized jointly by Sharad Krida Va Sanskritik Pratishthan, and  , the lecture was chaired by former deputy speaker of state Assembly Sharad Tasre.
 
 Terming Shivaji Maharaj as a symbol of social justice,   said that farmers were the backbone of his ‘swarajya’. “Shivaji envisioned   through the participation of people. He never discriminated while delivering justice. The very farmer who formed the backbone of his kingdom is in distress today, having been caught in the evil cycle of the government on one side, and traders and brokers on the other,” Yadav observed.
 
 “While the government waives Rs2,000 crore loan of industrialists, it has no money to waive farmers’ loan, which is very unfortunate. Be it Vijay Mallya or Nirav Modi, every political party contributed in allowing them to escape abroad. The multi-crore scam at Punjab National Bank involving Nirav Modi would not have been possible without the blessings of the powers that be at New Delhi. Though India’s formation was thought-based, not religion-based, the religion of humanity is in danger in the country. Right to expression is being gagged. Neither Rahul Gandhi nor   or for that matter Lalu Yadav can confront these threats. In such a situation, a third alternative has to be found and Swaraj India Party could be a medium for that,” said Yadav.
 
 “The whole youth of the country are in an agitated mood; the farmers’ community has turned rebellious. This has to be used to raise an agitation lending a new direction to the country,” Yadav said. Taking a dig at the Sangh, Yadav said, “Those who had no contribution in India’s freedom are today talking of nationalism. Their dominance today is the defeat of common people in the country. If India is to be driven out of this situation, it is imperative for good people to partake in politics”.
 
 
