MUMBAI: There’s no day quite like the Mumbai Marathon. The 15th edition of the   saw 44,407 people throng Fort’s heritage precinct dressed in colourful jerseys, running shoes and a positive attitude. Elite runners, amateurs, the differently abled,  , and those running for a cause—all crossed the finish line. 

 And those that couldn’t run, cheered. Perhaps no one personifies the spirit of Mumbai better than Suven Patil (53), who has been making the trek from Borivli for the last five years only to boost morale. This year, he brought his wife and 17-year-old daughter Rutvi along. “I was initially upset about getting up early on a Sunday,” said Rutvi, “but seeing all these people has boosted my spirits.”
 
 It’s clear the encouragement is appreciated. Prasad Menon, who lives in Vadodara and participated for the third time, said, “Only in Mumbai do we have people cheering for us throughout. It keeps us going, especially at the uphill stretch near Peddar Road.”
 
 The marquee for the ‘Champions with Disability’ was a riot of colour, packed with wheelchairs, balloons, flags and a girl’s marching band—all dressed in red and carrying flutes, drums, bugles and cymbals —from Gloria Convent. There were inspiring marathoners like Adil Ansari, who is on a wheelchair because of a spinal cord injury. He had recently represented India in an international archery championship.
 
 Close by was the senior citizens’ tent with members of the Five Gardens Laughter Club and 61-year-old Smruti Khopkar, who participated for the first time and is considering running the half marathon next year. 
 
 But some of them didn’t restrict themselves to the senior citizens’ run. Mahadev Samjiskar, who is 74, took part in the half marathon, completing his 41st marathon. “I may not be wealthy, but when it comes to health, I’m a millionaire,” he said. 
 
 It wasn’t just Indians participating in the marathon, which incidentally found a new sponsor in the Tatas after 14 years. Michael Westphalen, a 45-year-old Swiss national living in Singapore, made his Mumbai debut in the half marathon. His marathon journey has taken him across the globe to cities like New York, Boston, Berlin, Hamburg and Zurich. He termed it a “well-organized event” and praised the good weather. IMD’s Santacruz observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 17 degrees Celsius, almost one degree less than on the race day in 2017. 
 
 New at the marathon this year was the  . All   runners received two medals this time—one for themselves and one for whoever was their inspiration behind their running journey. Dinesh Gounder from Vashi said he was debating who to give the medal to. “There are a lot of people who have helped me complete the marathon, so I am confused about whom to share my medal with,” he said.
 
 Jaya Raheja, who ran the marathon along with her husband, welcomed the 10km addition. “The 6km   was too short. The 10km run is good for those who have not been able to train but still want to participate. They could also extend it to 15km,” she said. The ‘Timed 10K Run’ had 1,652 runners in its debut year. The full marathon had 6,955 runners, the half marathon saw 14,950 runners, while the senior citizens’ run and the champions with disability run had 1,130 and 1,220 runners, respectively. Mumbai’s favourite, the colourful Dream Run had over 18,500 enthusiastic runners take to the road. 
 
 
