CHENNAI: Recently, Pranav Varnasi and a few school mates pulled an all-nighter. And their parents were all game for it. For the Class XII students were not up to any fun and frolic but grappling with numbers and mastering theories of economics.

 “We finished about five chapters and the class was actually interesting,” says Varnasi, who attended a 11pm to 5am session at his tuition centre. “I did feel a bit tired after some time but was fine after I took a stroll.”
 
 With the board exam round the corner, it’s not just students but also   who are burning the midnight oil. Parents are hiring home tutors so that they can coach the students late into the night or early in the morning. And some tutors, like Manohar Bernard, who has his own centre in  , gets his students to work through the night once in a while so that they can cover more portions with ease.
 
 “I started doing night tuitions for college students who wanted last-minute coaching to clear their papers,” says Bernard, who teaches economics, statistics, and accountancy. For the last few years, he has been holding these night sessions once in a while for even class XII students.
 
 “I used to message my students late at night about the next day’s classes and would get replies promptly. So I realised many of them stay up late,” he says, adding that after spending the entire day in school, most children are tired when they come for tuition in the evening. “My classes are twice a week in the day time, but in February, before the   start, I hold one class from 11pm to 5am,” he says. “We cover in one night what we usually do in four classes.” The children usually rest in the evening and come fresh. Regular breaks are also given, with food ordered in. Many parents are open to it, he says. “Some students come from far off places so it is easier for the parents to come and pick up their children in the morning rather than late at night,” says Bernard. 
 
 Services that provide home tutors also say that they get many requests for teachers who are willing to stay back late during exam time. “Our tutors are all schoolteachers with five to 10 years of experience. Parents usually want them to teach late at night or even go to their homes by 5am,” says R Mareeswaran, who runs EAS Academy. K Chiranjivi Reddy, who runs  , has about 500 tutors on his rolls. “Parents want teachers who can go even at 10pm as the children are already going to other tuition centres during the day,” says Reddy.
 
 Villuri Sudheer, 37, who teaches chemistry, says that some parents request him to stay overnight. “Once I stayed for three days with a student who was scoring very poorly,” he says. Even now, he uses Skype to tutor his students at night. “Three or four students gather in one person’s place and I teach them over the web,” he says. Though the tutors charge by the hour – from Rs 500 to Rs 750 – parents feel it is worth the buck. “My son had a tough time with maths but with a home tutor he managed to score well in the boards,” says Uma Chandrasekhar.
 
 Doctors, however, feel that it is essential for students to get adequate sleep. “Our educational system is so mark-oriented that parents may feel forced to opt for tuitions,” says paediatrician Dr  . “Staying up late night may be alright if it is a one-time thing but if children don’t get enough sleep or physical activity, it is not good for them.”
 
 
