GURDASPUR: The police have registered a case against former SAD minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan’s son, Jagrup Singh, and former Aam Aadmi Party leader Kanwalpreet Singh Kaki, who is now with the Akalis, for alleged involvement in illegal sand mining.

 SHO Sarabjit Singh of Bhaini Mian Khan police station in   district told TOI on Friday that a case had been registered against Jagrup and Kaki under Sections 379 (theft) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 21 of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act. He said the FIR had been registered after the vigilance bureau submitted a probe report to the police for action.
 
 The police are yet to arrest the two men. “Mobile phones of Jagrup and Kaki are switched off. We are carrying out raids to arrest them,” said the SHO.
 
 Gurdaspur SSP H S Bhullar revealed that investigation in the case had started in 2013 and a SIT was set up for the probe by the vigilance bureau in the same year.
 
 
 
 
 The SIT submitted the report now and the cops registered a case against the two men on the basis of this report.
 
 The report, Bhullar said, indicted Jagrup and Kaki for stealing sand and mining it illegally.
 
 Balwinder Singh Bhinda, a resident of Nanokot village had complained to the bureau in 2013, alleging that illegal mining was being carried out by Jagrup and Kaki in a riverbed near Mugla Baichiragh village.
 
 The FIR against Sekhwan’s son is expected to come as a major blow to the party in Punjab’s Majha, especially as one of the party’s senior Majha leaders, Sucha Singh Langah is already facing trial in a rape case.
 
 Kaki, former head of AAP’s Majha zone and convener of Pagri Sambhal Jatta Movement, contested the last assembly elections from Qadian constituency in Gurdaspur district. He lost to   candidate Fatehjung Singh Bajwa by 48,000 votes. Later, he quit the AAP and joined SAD.
 
 Despite several attempts, Sekhwan, a former education minister and chairman of   and Industrial Training, could not be contacted for comment on the case against his son.
 
 SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema described the case as “politically-motivated action taken with malafide intention.” He said the report was marked to the vigilance bureau during the SAD-BJP regime. “I wonder why the case has been registered now. It’s nothing but a move by the Congress government to defame the Akalis and implicate them in false cases,” he said.
 
 Rejecting Cheema’s allegations,   president   said his party did not believe in politics of vendetta. “If a case has been registered, it must have been done after a thorough investigation,” he said.
 
 In January, Congress MLA Rana Gurjit Singh had to resign from the Amarinder cabinet due to controversy over his alleged involvement in sand mining auctions.
 
