THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala StateCouncilfor Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE) will launch a cleanlinessdrive along thebeaches and riverfronts of the state on Saturday. The campaign, set on the theme ‘Beat Plastic Pollution’, will go on till World EnvironmentDayon June5.India isthe globalhostof this year’s WorldEnvironmentDaycelebrations.

 
 The main aim of thedrive,whichwillbeconducted in association with   (NGC), is cleaning beaches and riverfrontsof plasticlitter.
 
 The campaign will be first held at   andwilllater beextendedtobeachesin Kozhikodedistrict. Riverfronts of Bharathapuzha at   and Canoli Canal in Malappuram will alsobecleaned, said  , KSCSTE chief scientist and NGC nodalofficer.
 
 The cleanliness drive at Varkala beach will be conducted jointly with Varkala municipality, National Green Corps, NCC, NSS, college students and Kudumbashree members,hesaid.
 
 “Training willbeofferedfor making clothbags and plastic-freesanitary pads.In addition tothis, painting, poster making,elocution competition and quizwillbe organizedfor schoolstudents,”Kokkalsaid.
 
 The programme at Varkala will be launched by Varkala MLAVJoy.Itwillbe presidedover by municipal chairperson   in the presence of KSCSTE executive vice-president, Suresh Das, KSCSTE member secretary and director Dr Pradeep Kumar andDEOAttingalDhanyaRKumar.
 
 Meanwhile, KSCSTE also plans to launch the green skilldevelopment programme(GSDP)for the youth for skill development in the environment and forest sector.
 
 KSCSTEEnvironmentalInformation System (ENVIS) Hub has decided to implement GSDP across the statein collaboration withitsR&Dcentressuch asKerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI), Peechi, Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanical Garden Research Institute (JNTBGRI), Palode, and Malabar Botanical Garden & Institute for Plant Sciences (MBGIPS), Kozhikode,saidKokkal.
 
 The courses and training programmes would be conducted as per the National Skills Qualification Framework (NSQF) of NSDA, ministry of skill development & entrepreneurship. Certificates would be awardedtosuccessfulcandidateson completion of the courses.
 
 Thetraining programmes arebeing offeredtoskill enthusiasts,who are18 years and above, as master trainers (MTs) or specialists. Free training will be providedfor selectedcandidates.Interestedcandidates may apply throughonline portalof GSDP:www.gsdpenvis-.gov.in.Further detailscan behadon thewebsitewww.Envis.nic.in or call0471-2548210.
 
 
