Kolkata:   Banerjee is likely to meet Congress leader Sonia Gandhi during her visit to Delhi on March 27. The Bengal CM conveyed the message to Congress’ Abhishek Manu Singhvi on Friday when he called on Banerjee in the assembly to thank her for her party’s support to him in the Rajya Sabha polls. 

 Singhvi got 47 votes, 15 more than the 32 votes that Congress has in the West Bengal assembly.
 
 The Trinamool chief threw her weight behind Singhvi when she could have sent another of her party candidates to Rajya Sabha (RS) in his place. Trinamool has 212 votes and with three GJM votes in the assembly, it adds up to 215, sufficient to send five candidates to RS.
 
 Banerjee sacrificed one seat for Congress as she did for Congress candidate Pradip Bhattacharya in 2017. It’s another matter that the election didn’t take place after Left candidate Bikash Bhattacharya’s nomination got cancelled. Trinamool seniors pointed out that the CM did so despite state Congress leaders moving in tandem with the Left against her government.
 
 Trinamool’s unconditional support to two Congress nominees in the RS polls will definitely put pressure on Congress to recognise its worth at the national level and accept Banerjee’s leading role in the emerging anti-BJP platform even if that means Congress having to take a back seat. 
 
 According to Trinamool sources, Banerjee took exception to Congress president Rahul Gandhi turning down her proposal to go for a countrywide campaign against demonetisation after the two — Banerjee and Rahul — had held a joint press meet in Delhi. The Trinamool chief also wanted Congress to contest in more seats in Tripura but it didn’t. Banerjee then told her party MPs to escalate independent activities against BJP both inside and outside Parliament instead of playing second fiddle to Congress.
 
 Sources close to the development indicated that the Trinamool chief had excellent relations with former PM Rajiv Gandhi and also with Sonia, but not so much with Rahul. Given her stature in national politics and her party’s strength, Banerjee is in demand with senior party leaders, from TRS to Shiv Sena and from NCP to TDP, because she has emerged as a credible face of the anti-BJP combination.
 
 The TMC chief is keen on giving this anti-BJP platfo-rm a shape without dependi-ng on Congress. At the same time, she doesn’t want to commit to the non-Congre-ss, non-BJP formation proposed by Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao. She thus sent her party representative and Lok Sabha leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay to the meeting that Sonia had recently convened for opposition parties in Delhi.
 
 
