KALYAN: High drama in Ulhasnagar that lasted three hours saw Thane police rescue a 40-year-old abducted businessman and nab one of his four kidnappers who demanded a ransom of Rs 1 crore to release him. Following considerable negotiations with the victim, though, the kidnappers brought down the ransom demand to Rs 25 lakh.

 The kidnappers claimed to be part of the Chhota Rajan gang. They allegedly bundled the businessman into a car around 10.30pm on Wednesday, pointed a revolver at him and demanded that he call a relative or a friend and ask him to bring along the cash.
 
 The victim’s friend, in turn, informed cops who laid a trap for the kidnappers and nabbed one of them after he ventured out to collect a bag ostensibly filled with cash. The arrested accused has been identified as   (25).
 
 The businessman, Naresh Ramnani (40), is a resident of Konark Residency near Shahad station in Ulhasnagar and runs   and Travels.
 
 The incident came to light on Thursday night when Ramnani was on his way home. The kidnappers overtook his car and braked to a stop in front of it. They then rushed out and dragged Ramnani into their car. One of the accomplices followed them on a bike. Cops said the accused drove towards Ambernath.
 
 Ramnani recalled that one Mishra pointed a revolver at him and said they belonged to the Chhota Rajan gang and that they were from  , before demanding Rs 1crore ransom amount. Ramnani told them that he did not have that kind of money. The demand was subsequently reduced to Rs 25 lakh.
 
 On their instructions, Ramnani called up his friend, one Naresh Rohra, and asked him to arrange the money.
 
 Police sources said Rohra called up Ramnani’s relatives and approached local Ulhasnagar police, who immediately formed a team of 14 cops and dispatched them to the spot where money was to be collected.
 
 The team swooped down on two of the kidnappers who were there to collect the ransom amount. While one of them managed to flee by crossing the railway tracks in the vicinity, Khan jumped into a nullah filled with garbage and hid under mounds of rubbish. Cops, too, entered the nullah and took the fire brigade’s help to trace him in a 40-minute search operation.
 
 Cops have learnt that Khan is a resident of   area in Kalyan (East) and has multiple cases against him. On interrogation, Khan confessed to the crime and named his associates and said they are from Chembur and Manpada, Dombivli.
 
 Ramnani told TOI: “I am very grateful to the police for rescuing me.” D D Palve, senior inspector, Ulhasnagar police, said, “The main accused told the victim that they were attached to the Chhota Rajan gang but we are verifying the claim.” Ankit Goyal, DCP, Zone IV, Thane police, said, “Our team will soon nab the other three.” Although the victim has been rescued, a probe is on to ascertain the involvement of any local or an insider who may have passed on information about him.
 
