NEW DELHI: The Central Bureau of Investigation on Tuesday night   a   against Delhi’s health minister,  , and others for alleged corruption in   of a   for   to suggest new architectural designs for government buildings and cost-effective methods of construction. The agency has alleged that there was a   to divert funds from the  .

 
  teams carried out searches on Wednesday at various locations, including Jain’s residence and premises of other named persons. A preliminary inquiry in the matter had been registered on April 5, 2017.
 
 Those named in the FIR include former engineer-in-chief of PWD Sarvagya Kumar Srivastava, then principal director (projects) Manu Amitabh, ex-deputy director (Admin) A K Pait and project manager P C Chanana.
 
 The inquiry is claimed to have revealed that Jain had “conspired” with the officials of the PWD to award the tender to one company for hiring the creative team for the department’s work. The CBI’s case is that the terms and conditions of the tender were tweaked to make this company eligible though it had no experience of such work.
 
 In September 2015, it was proposed that young professionals from reputed institutions like the IITs, NITs, NID, SPA and IIMs could be hired with monthly emoluments ranging from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh for the creative team as the PWD did not have such in-house capacity, the inquiry report said. However, the tender notice issued on March 15, 2016 had not mention of this.
 
 The agency has alleged that no minutes of any meeting were available. It has also claimed that funds that were to be spent for the team from the accounting head of the Barapullah-III project were changed for the purpose of mohalla clinics on February 19, 2016.
 
 The agency claims there is a provision that funds for architects and consultants can be met from savings of a project as per the CPWD manual but only in case of an urgent requirement.
 
 A Delhi government spokesperson dismissed all the charges. “All the professionals who were hired were forced to leave. The file is lying with them from 2016. All the charges are bogus and a bundle of lies.”
 
 TOI made repeated attempts to get Satyendar Jain’s reaction and version but there was no response. He, however, tweeted: “CBI raids my house for hiring a creative team by PWD. Professionals were hired for different projects. All were forced to leave by the CBI.” Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “What does PM Modi want?”
 
 
