HYDERABAD: The already shrunk Nalla Cheruvu abutting the Hyderabad-Warangal highway in Uppal is all set to lose another four acres of its area. This time, revenue authorities have set their eyes on this once pristine lake to demarcate a parcel of its land for the proposed Uppal bus station.

 Nalla Cheruvu, which was once spread over 100 acres, has now been reduced to just 30 acres with encroachments springing up in recent times. Its size will come down further once the bus station is constructed. The proposed structure will not only reduce the total area of the lake, it will also affect its catchment. Revenue officials, accompanied by local politicians, inspected the lake recently following demands from residents for a modern city bus station.
 
 Satellite imagery reveals that Nalla Cheruvu has been `orphaned’ with no proper outlet, resulting in inundation of surrounding colonies during heavy rains. Nalla Cheruvu is linked to   upstream. The flood discharge from Pedda Cheruvu empties into Nalla Cheruvu through a stream, which over the years has turned narrow thanks to encroachments on its banks. However, there is no proper outlet to Nalla Cheruvu to carry forward the flood waters into Peerzadiguda lake downstream. Incidentally, the Peerzadiguda lake has no inlet or outlet with encroachments eating them away.
 
 Archival data reveals that Nalla Cheruvu was planned in such a way that any excess flood water from Habsiguda, Boduppal, Nacharam and other areas upstream would be emptied into it. When Nalla Cheruvu overflows, the flood water empties into the Peerzadiguda lake, and from there into the river Musi. This natural flood flow system has been affected due to encroachments. Construction of a bus station in the lake area or in its catchment will only further complicate the flood problem during monsoon, warns environment activist  .
 
 According to sources, the state government decided to construct a bus station at Uppal following a protest by local legislator NVSS Prabhakar, who chose to travel by a city bus to highlight the plight of the residents in the absence of a modern city bus station. But instead of selecting the Uppal bus depot land, the authorities have ironically zeroed in on Nalla Cheruvu.
 
 The Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) has identified Nalla Cheruvu for construction of a sewage treatment plant to free it of chemical, domestic and industrial pollutants. The   also wants to beautify the lake. All these plans will be affected once the proposed bus station comes up on the lake bed, Satyanarayana warned.
 
