PATNA: A government rail police (GRP) team on Friday arrested Monu Yadav alias Buchki and Rahul Kumar, both in their early 20s, for their involvement in the murder of two railway passengers near Kathpul between   and Rajendra Nagar Terminal on May 8.

 Superintendent of rail police (SRP), Patna, Ashok Kumar Singh said Monu was arrested from his residence near Bankaghat railway station. On his information, Rahul was arrested from Natthupur under the   police station area. He said the two have criminal records and two more were yet to be arrested in the case. “On their confession, two bloodstained knives used in the crime were recovered from a secluded place below a bridge under construction at Sipara. The knives were sent for forensic examination,” Singh said.
 
 On Thursday, Patna police had arrested   alias Bahaduri and his younger brother Suraj Yadav with firearms in the case. Singh said Monu, along with others, had planned the loot on May 7 night. Later, they waited inside a coach parked in the yard near Kathpul for their prey.
 
 Rural Yadav (32) was stabbed to death while walking with his friend Rambhu Yadav (26) along the track on way to Rajendra Nagar Terminal from Patna Junction to board the Saharsa Intercity Express to reach their village Chitti in Madhepura. They had come from Ludhiana by Amritsar-Howrah Express. The criminals had looted Rs22,000 and a cellphone from them.
 
 Woman rescued: A 40-year-old woman from  , who was allegedly held captive by a couple and forced to work as maid for more than two years, was rescued from a flat on the fourth floor of Ram Lakhan Enclave on West Boring Canal Road under   police station area on Thursday night.
 
 A police team raided the flat after the woman’s family members sought help from   (CID) Vinay Kumar.
 
 SHO of Buddha Colony police station   said the woman was being treated inhumanly by the couple – Sanjeev Singh (47) and Babita Singh (42). The two were later arrested. “The couple also runs a girls’ hostel in the same apartment besides owning at least two more flats in the city. They have huge immovable property in Mokama as well,” the SHO said, adding a Gurugram-based placement agency had sent the Assamese woman to the couple’s house.
 
 “The woman has alleged that the couple used to tie her limbs besides subjecting her to physical torture. Several injury marks have been found on her body,” the SHO said. He added a minor girl living in the same apartment displayed exemplary courage and recorded the woman’s statement before circulating it on social media.
 
 Bus carrying cargo seized: Police on Friday seized illegal medicines and electronic goods from a Ranchi-Patna passenger bus near Bankipore police station in the city. The bus was raided in presence of state commercial taxes department officials and drug inspectors. 
 
 “The seized goods, which also included 120 laptops, were worth at least Rs 1 crore. Drug inspectors have collected the samples of the seized drugs,” state transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said, adding passenger buses are not allowed to carry cargo. “The bus has been registered in the name of one Bharti Devi. We have suspended the permit of the bus which was operating under an agreement with the Bihar State Road Transport Department. The agreement has also been suspended,” Agarwal said. 
 
 He said carrying luggage more than permissible limit or cargo overloads the bus and puts the lives of passengers at risk.
 
 
