PATNA: The sultry   condition in most parts of the state is expected to worsen further as the weatherman has forecast that the maximum temperature may touch 40-degree mark at several places in the coming week.

 The hot and humid weather conditions were attributed to mainly clear skies and moist easterly winds. “We do not foresee any weather system that could lead to significant clouding,” said a Patna Meteorological Centre official.
 
 He said the maximum temperature in Patna and   in central   was expected to reach 40 degrees C by Tuesday, while that in   in south Bihar would surge up to 42 degrees C by Sunday. The maximum temperature in Forbesganj and Purnia in northeast Bihar is expected to remain in the range of 35-36 degrees C.
 
 Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department has maintained its forecast of thundershowers at isolated places in the state over the next five days due to a cyclonic circulation over east Bihar and adjoining sub-Himalayan West Bengal.
 
 The Patna Met official, however, said the isolated showers were unlikely to bring much respite. “Moisture level at most places in the state is being measured in the range of 40-90% for the past few days. Accordingly, hot and humid weather conditions are expected to prevail at most places in the state over the next five days,” he said.
 
 The high temperature and humidity also led to surge in the Real Feel index up to 44 degrees C at 3pm on Thursday afternoon as per the calculation of private weather agency accuweather.com. RealFeel is a formula devised to determine how hot your skin feels outdoors on the basis of various weather parameters like the day's temperature, relative humidity, wind and angle of the sun.
 
 “The weather turns humid right since the morning. My father- in- law has stopped going for morning walks for the last two days,” Minakshi Pandey, a homemaker living at Ashiana Nagar, said and added cooking food for the family had become a Herculean task.
 
 Lightning kills 2
 
 Lightning killed two people in East Champaran district on Thursday morning. Reports said Teja Sahni of Bagahi village in Adapur block and   of   village of Patahi block in the district died after lightning struck them in the early morning hours. According to the weatherman, isolated thunderstorm and lightning were observed in north- eastern parts of the state, including Purnia, Araria, Forbesganj and East Champaran. The Patna Meteorological Centre website showed 301.4mm rainfall in Forbesganj during the 24 hours till 8am on Thursday. tnn
 
 
