HYDERABAD: The Chennai branch of the Central Bureau of Investigation ( ) has booked a cheating and criminal conspiracy case against   Holdings Limited ( ) along with its chairman T Venkattram Reddy and others for allegedly duping United India Insurance Company Limited (UIIC) to the tune of ₹30.5 crore.

 
 In the FIR registered on Thursday (March 22), CBI has also named UIIC’s then Chennai deputy general manager (investment department) A Balasubramanian, the then chief manager (investment department) KL Kunjilwar, rating agency   and Infrastructure Development Finance Company Limited (IDFC) as accused.
 
 
 
 
 According to the CBI FIR, “All the six accused entered into a criminal conspiracy at Chennai and other places to cheat UIIC. Two officials of UIIC abused their official positions as public servants and made suspicious investments in the privately-placed short term unsecured redeemable non-convertible debentures issued by DCHL during the year 2011 in violation of the laid down regulations. The same was not repaid by DCHL causing wrongful loss of ₹30.5 crore to UIIC .”
 
 The CBI alleged that the overall borrowing powers of the company increased from ₹700 crore to ₹1,000 crore during the annual general meeting (AGM) held in September 2007 and from ₹1,000 crore to ₹5,000 crore during the AGM in February 2013. As on the date of issue of debentures, the company’s total borrowings were ₹3,755 crore. “In pursuance of the criminal conspiracy between July to October 2011, three office notes were put by Kunjilwar for an investment of ₹10 crore each in 11.2per cent unsecured non-convertible debentures issued by DCHL for the purchase of short-term unsecured debentures within 364-day maturity without analysing the proposal in detail. UICC’s A Balasubramanian approved the same,” the FIR said. According to CBI, investments were made on three different occasions deliberately to bypass the investment committee of UIIC and totally ₹30.5 crore was invested.
 
 “UIIC relied on the rating awarded by CARE Ratings Limited. It did not carry out any separate risk analysis apart from the rating PR1+ given by CARE. It did not obtain any appraisal report from other financial institutions. It was purchased through IDFC. At the time of investment in 2011, the CARE rating was PR1+ and at the time of redemption in the year 2012, the rating was drastically downgraded,” the CBI FIR said. On the date of maturity in 2012, DCHL failed to repay the principal amount along with interest and the three cheques of ₹10 crore each it had issued to UIIC were dishonoured. UIIC also lodged a complaint under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, which is pending in court.
 
