HYDERABAD: With the threat of the dreaded   looming large, a string of messages on social media are doing rounds urging people to avoid eating fruits for at least a couple of weeks. And bats are touted as the harbingers of the disease.

 
 While the onslaught of messages has already led to crashing of fruit prices, people apprehensive of the consequences of consuming fruits are also calling up health experts.
 
 Among the fruits that these messages indicate people should avoid are: mangoes, litchi, jackfruit, guavas, papaya, melons and various kinds of berries. One such message that went viral in Hyderabad went a step ahead and stated how the   had issued an alert to stay away from these fruits. It was subsequently found to be false.
 
 Among other messages doing rounds on Twitter and WhatsApp were: “Unless we are careful more people will die. Please avoid eating fresh fruits, fresh juice and other fruit products”; while another read how banana was the most dangerous of all fruits and should be avoided.
 
 Experts, however, rubbished the claim made by these messages. “There is no harm in consuming any kind of fruit; only it should be thoroughly washed. Also, caution should be exercised in choosing the fruit. Damaged fruits, fruits which have fallen from the tree naturally or which look like it has been eaten by any animal or bird should be avoided,” said Dr K Shankar, superintendent of Fever Hospital and director,   ( ), Hyderabad. Also if a particular fruit is from a trees where a colony of bats is clearly visible, it should be avoided.
 
 “So far we have no cases reported in our area and there is no reason to avoid any kind of fruit. We just need to make sure that the fruit is intact,” said Hari Kishan, consultant general physician, Apollo Hospitals, Hyderguda.
 
 The dwindling demand of fruits has adversely impacted vendors. “Despite the litchi season being at its peak, we are unable to sell even half the supply by the end of the day. Earlier, the entire supply would be sold off by late afternoon,” said Ramesh, a roadside vendor at Kukatpally.
 
 
