AHMEDABAD/JAIPUR: There was high drama on Monday when   ( ) international working president  , who went "missing" after Rajasthan police came calling with an arrest warrant, was "found" from Kotarpur in Ahmedabad by an unidentified caller in an unconscious state. He was admitted to   in Shahibaug, Ahmedabad, with low blood sugar.

 As VHP men rented the air with 'Jai Shri Ram' after Togadia, who gets Z-plus security, director of Chandramani Hospital Dr Roopkumar Agarwal said, "Togadia was shifted to hospital by EMRI 108 emergency service around 9.15pm in a semi-conscious state suffering from hypoglycemia (low blood sugar). After he was given treatment, his condition stabilised. He is not in a position to give detailed statement, but will soon be well."
 
 Additional Commissioner of Police (Sector-II) Ashok Yadav said: "Togadiya was found with low blood sugar. We will know the details when he is in a position to give a detailed statement."
 
 Togadia's hospitalisation brought curtains down on the day-long drama albeit with several questions remaining unanswered, primary being the whereabouts of Togadia all through Monday.
 
 The day saw VHP leaders allege "foul-play" when Togadia went missing from the VHP office after Rajasthan cops came calling with arrest warrant. Gujarat VHP general secretary Ranchhod Bharwad, who had alleged that Togadia was picked up by cops, raised questions over his safety after both Rajasthan and Ahmedabad police claimed that Togadia was not in their custody. Bharwad filed a complaint for missing person to the Ahmedabad crime branch on Monday evening.
 
 Around 8.30pm, EMRI 108 got a call that a man in his 60s was found unconscious in Kotarpur. The man was shifted to Chandramani Hospital and identified as Togadia.
 
 "The great news is that Togadiaji has been found. He is stable but not in a position to speak. Doctors have asked that he should be allowed to rest. Police will conduct a detailed probe into the incident," Bharwad said.
 
 There were tense moments amid rumours of Togadia being picked up by Rajasthan police in connection with a case of disobeying government's orders in 2002 even as suspicion deepened over the "missing" leader after cops denied his detention or arrest.
 
 Ahmedabad police confirmed that Rajasthan cops had come to arrest him in an old case of disobedience to public order but denied his detention or arrest. Police claimed Togadia was last seen early on Monday morning and was untraceable ever since.
 
 JK Bhatt, JCP (crime), told mediapersons that Rajasthan police team had come to Sola police station at 10.45am on Monday to serve the arrest warrant. "A local police team had accompanied Rajasthan cops to Togadia's residence but he was not found there. We then inquired at VHP office in Paldi where State Reserve Police jawan on duty said Togadia had left at 10.45am on Monday in an auto with a bearded man," said Bhatt.
 
 Jay Shah, a close aide of Togadia and VHP spokesperson, said: "Recently attempts were made by certain elements of RSS and BJP to remove Pravinbhai from the post of working president of VHP. While those attempts failed, he is being targeted being the lone Hindu voice pressurizing for building   and issues like conversion and love jihad."
 
 As per Rajasthan police, Togadia had held a public meeting in Gangapur city in Sawai Madhopur district in April 2002 despite a ban on his entry. Yogendra Faujdar, additional SP, told TOI: "Togadia had flouted the order of CrPC Section 144 for unlawful assembly. Thus, a case of IPC Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) was registered against him."
 
 "Police teams had visited Ahmedabad several times to serve summons. When they could not be delivered, a bailable warrant was issued. When that also could not be delivered, an arrest warrant was issued against him a fortnight ago. A team visited Ahmedabad with the warrant. The team went to Togadia's residence but he could not be found," said Faujdar.
 
 
