KOZHIKODE: Political parties are known to promise people the moon in their election manifestos. But this time, the ruling   party's manifesto in poll-bound Karnataka has promised to introduce Kerala School Kalolsavam, billed as the largest school fest in Asia, in Karnataka if the party is voted to power. 

 
 The manifesto says that having a state-level mega school arts festival like the one in Kerala and incentivizing participation of students by giving grace marks in   will lead to promotion of indigenous arts and culture and produce quality talent in the state. Kerala School Kalolsavam is an annual event conducted by the state government that features several art competitions for high school and higher secondary school students of Kerala. 
 
 The event, usually conducted in December or January, began in 1956.
 
 "Karnataka will provide one of the biggest platforms for children, who have interest in arts and culture, by launching a state-level mega youth festival like the one in Kerala. Starting from school-level and progressing through sub-district, district and ﬁnally culminating at the state-level, the fest will give children a chance to experience each other's culture and arts, thereby adding to the long-term goal of improving social harmony and pluralism in our society," said the manifesto in its youth and employment section.
 
 The proposal was mooted by some Keralite professionals in Karnataka who are associated with   ( ). Their proposal was accepted by the manifesto drafting committee.
 
 "Karnataka does not have a grand stage like the mega state school youth festival. There are not many avenues for students to take their artistic pursuits beyond inter-school competitions. We submitted the proposal to replicate Kerala School Kalolsavam in Karnataka and it has found its space in the manifesto," said Subash Babu, an IT professional from Palakkad, who is also the vice-president of AIPC's Bengaluru South chapter.
 
 Kerala general education secretary A Shajahan said that it is a positive development that Kalolsavam has found a mention in the election manifesto of another state. "Till date, we have seen 58 editions of the festival and it has grown in size and stature over the years. During the past five years it is being organized with budgetary support from the government. Many states had sent their education officials to witness the festival in previous years with the idea of replicating it in their states," he said.
 
 Director of public instructions KV   said that the festival - which had seen the participation of around 12,000 students last year and lakhs of students in the school, sub- district and district levels - has been able to put in place a mechanism to ensure strong student focus and constant qualitative improvement.
 
 
