 ( ): Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday dedicated to the nation the second phase of   memorial, while announcing an allocation of Rs 25 crore for the completion of its third phase in the forthcoming budget. He also announced a sanction of Rs 9.5 crore towards the pending arrears for Phase I construction.

 Praising his predecessor Parkash Singh Badal for conceiving and initiating the project,   said the former CM gave two prestigious projects — Jang-e-Azadi at Kartarpur and War Heroes Memorial in Amritsar — to the state. “These two memorials would go a long way in perpetuating the memory of the martyrs of India’s freedom struggle to the next generations,” he said.
 
 He also lauded the efforts of Jang-e-Azadi Foundation chairman Barjinder Singh Hamdard for “flawless” execution of the project at a good pace. The CM also announced that the  , which includes noted historians Kirpal Singh, J S Grewal, Prof Prithipal Singh Kapur, Jaspal Singh, K L Tuteja and Harish Sharma, would get full support of his government for completion of the next phase of the memorial.
 
 Amarinder directed the memorial committee to allow free entry for the families of all freedom fighters and to depute tour guides to educate children about the monument’s significance. He suggested inscription of the names of all freedom fighters from Punjab who had sacrificed their lives for the nation.
 
 Recalling his post-tsunami visit to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands to undertake rehabilitation work there, the CM said he was really moved after reading the names of martyrs, including thousands from Punjab, who had made the supreme sacrifice in Port Blair jail. “ I realized that I had heard or read about only of a few of them while several names from Punjab were not part of the popular memory even though they suffered the worst confinement during British rule,” he said.
 
 Earlier, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee ( ) president and   MP   urged the CM to issue directions to the education department to make visits by school students to the memorial and other such historical places.
 
 Tourism and cultural affairs minister Navjot Singh Sidhu said the Jang-e-Azadi memorial would be a bridge to connect the younger generations with their glorious legacy of patriotism. He sought the CM’s personal intervention in directing the education minister to make mandatory the study of biographies of iconic freedom fighters and martyrs from Punjab so that students are well acquainted with the glorious history of the state and the sacrifices of freedom fighters.
 
 
