Class 12 is one of the major turning points in a student’s life. Be it in terms of personality or profession, students after 12th are exposed to an all-new challenging world away from the closely protected environment of the school.

 Thanks to the wide number of career options and internet, students can now very well sit back and analyze the prospects of various fields. 
 
 For the students from Science Stream, there is no dearth of career options after school. There are so many courses to pursue other than just engineering and medical.
 
 One major advantage that only Science students have over Non-Science students is that they are eligible for almost all Science as well as Non-Science options - a privilege that is not feasible for Commerce and Humanities students.
 
 Take a look at the wide variety of options Science students have: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1. MBBS-allopathic
 2. BAMS-Ayurveda
 3. BHMS-homeopathy
 4. BUMS-Unani
 5. BNYS–Naturopathy & Yogic Science
 6. BDS-dentistry
 7. BSMS - Siddha Medicine & Sciences
 8. Veterinary Science & Animal Husbandry (BVSc. AH)
 9. Physiotherapy (BPT)
 10.Integrated MSc
 
 
 
 
 1. Engineering (B.Tech/BE in biotechnology, agriculture, environment)
 2. BSc - Biotechnology
 3. B.Sc. Dairy Technology/Nursing/radiology/prosthetics & orthotics, optometry etc)
 4. B.Sc. Home Science/Forensic Science
 5. Bachelor of Pharmacy
 6. BOT (Occupational Therapy)
 7. BMLT (Medical Lab Technology)
 
 
 
 
 
 1. Dental Hygiene
 2. Dental Mechanics
 3. Dialysis Technology
 4. Health Inspector
 5. Medical Laboratory
 6. Operation Theatre Technology
 7. Ophthalmic Technology
 8. X-Ray Technology
 
 
 
 Students with Bio-maths who do not want to take up engineering and medical field, after 12th can go for B.Sc. (Bachelor of Science) of their different fields, which can be followed by Master's degree (M.Sc.), MPhil and Ph.D. 
 
 
 
 1. Architecture (B. Arch)
 2. Integrated MSc
 3. Bachelor of Science (BSc)
 4. Bachelor of Computer Application (BCA)
 5. Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA)
 6. Commerce (B.Com)
 7. National Defense (Navy, Army and Air Force)
 8. Pilot training
 
 Apart from these courses, students with a flare in creativity can go for other carious career options such as 
 
 
 Mass Communication includes many interesting mediums such as the television, newspaper, radio, advertisements, public relations, and many more. 
 
 
 For the creative minds, who have a penchant for colors and shapes, interior, fashion and graphic designing can be an ideal choice.
 
 
 Many people are inclined towards in the performing arts. These maybe actors, musicians, singers and dancers. So if you wish to be in the spotlight, go for one now!
  
 
