Nagpur: The relentless struggle of around one year by a 40-year-old woman paved the way for her younger sister, 31, to return to the city unscathed on Monday after a 14-month ordeal in Saudi Arabia. She had been allegedly sold for Rs2 lakh as a bonded labourer by an international trafficking network. The victim, trapped with a Shaikh family at Tabuk near Riyadh, had earlier been fortunate to escape unhurt after a mentally challenged teenager in the family sprayed bullets all over the place, leaving holes in the wall, during her stay there. This teenager had also tried to make some undue advances towards her, but she had managed to fend off the attempt. It was a woman of the Shaikh family who helped the distraught victim, by providing her a cell phone to narrate her ordeal to her elder sister, who lives at Tajbagh in the city. Then, the elder sister started making efforts to bring her back, including meeting social activist Umesh Choubey, whose team members, Savita Pandey and Sunita Thakre, took up the case with Sakkardara police. The case was regularly monitored by investigation officer PSI Digambar Rathod, who had also visited the ministry of external affairs in New Delhi, and effected two arrests in the case. Rathod, under the supervision of Zonal DCP S Chaitanya, tightened the screws around the racketeers, leading to the release of the victim, who returned to the city via Mumbai recently. Realizing that the cops were zeroing down upon them, the racketeers had reportedly returned some money to the Shaikh family in Saudi Arabia, paving the way for the victim’s return. This was the second such case, both registered at Sakkardara police station, in city in the last one year, where women have returned from Saudi Arabia with horrifying tales. The city already has the dubious distinction of topping the nation in trafficking, as per the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data of 2016. The woman who returned recently had been trafficked there on the pretext of working as a cook for some pilgrims with a monthly salary of Rs19,000 in Indian currency. Her case also exposed the city-based agents part of the international trafficking rackets operating from Mumbai. The victim has claimed that there were two more women with her on board the flight to Saudi Arabia, but she did not know their fate. The victim’s elder sister claimed that several women from Tajbagh had fallen prey to the racket and trafficked to various places in Saudi Arabia. The victim claimed that she was provided a meal only once a day. “There were 14 ailing children of the Shaikh couple whom I had to attend to, including one whose stools had to be cleaned frequently,” she said. In September 2016, the victim was offered the job by one Shamma Begum, who knew her frail economic condition, due to her physically challenged husband. The victim also had two sons and a daughter to feed, apart from looking after the homebound husband. Shamma had introduced the victim to Shaikh Abdul-ur Rehman alias Haji. It was Haji who took her to one Shahid Ansari, who sold the victim abroad through a Mumbai-based agent named Mustafa. Haji and Shamma were arrested by Sakkardara police earlier. The cops are now trying to nab others involved in the racket.