NOIDA: A group of men vandalised the toll booths on   on Sunday afternoon, demanding a ban on the movie  . Nearly 100 protesters came to the   on bikes and cars at 3pm and created a ruckus for nearly half-an-hour. The goons also manhandled some guards who tried to stop them. The men damaged the cabins, smashed window panes, cameras, computers, chairs and other equipment. A police team later reached the spot and arrested 12 persons.

 The toll plazas are currently unmanned as the Allahabad high court had in October 2016 ordered the private concessionaire NTBCL to stop collecting user-fee from commuters. A security guard said that the hooligans came on some 25-30 bikes and 20 cars.
 
 “They removed barriers at the toll plaza and started smashing cabin glasses. They went on a rampage for some time. We rushed to the spot but they threatened us. We then moved back to safety,” said a guard.
 
  
  Some protesters had masked their faces with a balaclava, handkerchief and towels. They dragged the barriers with their bikes and stopped traffic for some time. The protesters also recorded their hooliganism on their mobile phones, threatening to create more ruckus if the movie is not banned.
 
 They also uploaded a six-minute video clip of the hooliganism on DND Flyway on a Facebook page named — Rajput bas nam hi kafi ha. “This   is nothing. Worse is in the offing,” a youth is seen speaking and showing the damages. The footage shows a man fleeing with some equipment and camera from the toll plaza. He is also seen speaking to others to drop some fuel from a bike on the spot and lit the fire. 
 
 Arun Kumar Singh, SP (city) Noida said police reached the spot and arrested 12 persons. “We have registered a case for rioting under Sections 147, 148 and 149 of IPC. We are investigating footage of CCTV cameras to identify and arrest more people involved in the crime,” he said. The DND Flyway operator, NTBCL, refused to comment on the issue saying they have filed a police complaint.
 
 Meanwhile, a group of men also held a protest in Greater Noida demanding a ban on the movie. Thakur Dheeraj Singh, president of western UP unit of Rajput Uthan Sabha, said his outfit was not associated with Noida incident. “We gathered at Ghodi Bachera village near Pari Chowk. We then reached The Grand Venice Mall and held a peaceful protest. We returned after the mall management assured us that they will not release the movie,” he said.
 
 Singh distanced himself from the ruckus created on the DND Flyway.
 
 
