GURUGRAM: A one-and-a-half year-old leopard was found dead on Tuesday morning in Gairatpur Bas village near Sohna road. On receiving information, a five-member district wildlife team, led by district forest officer (wildlife) Shyam Sunder and wildlife inspector Sunil Kumar, rushed the hills where the carcass was found.

 
 The team found the carcass lying near a natural pond, reportedly for 10 hours. They found canine marks in its neck, head and limbs and sent it for post-mortem. 
 
 When the post-mortem results ruled out foul play, they declared the   was probably attacked by other leopard(s), and had died during the fight from ruptures in the neck and head.
 
 Vinod Kumar, chief conservator of forest (Gurugram circle), told TOI, “There were canine marks on the carcass. The post-mortem confirms it died in a fight. Leopards have a tendency to attack on the neck and puncturing it with canines.”
 
 “We heard there was a leopard carcass from a phone call on Tuesday morning, and immediately sent a team there, who carried out a probe. The canine marks confirmed the leopard was attacked by another leopard,” said Shyam Sunder, district forest officer (wildlife), Gurugram.
 
 Villagers also ruled out possibility of foul play when TOI visited the spot. “We’ve been living here for 30 years, and have never heard of poaching. Also, we’re not scared of leopards as they are common here, and we know they are harmless,” said a local, requesting anonymity.
 
 Some animal activists though criticised the wildlife department for not carrying out a thorough investigation. “It seems there were no puncture marks. If the leopard was attacked by another leopard, why are there no blood stains on the carcass, which is wet, indicating someone may have washed off its injuries. The photos clearly show a blunt object was used to attack the big cat. Also, male leopards generally don’t attack young females,” said Amit Chaudhery, a naturalist and honorary animal welfare officer at the Union forest ministry.
 
 Sunder said, “We’d flipped the carcass before taking the photo. That’s why blood stains are not visible. Also, the carcass was found near a pond. It’s possible the leopard had dived into it during the fight.”
 
 
