LUCKNOW: Chairperson of  ,   has written to   and UP CM   to put an end to madrasas and bring all such   under  .

 Rizvi has also asked for ending the   as also other madrasa boards across the county and to initiate an immediate inquiry into 'affairs of madrasas and   mushrooming in every part of the village and city of the country'.
 
 In his letter also sent to the cabinet secretary, Rizvi has claimed that such madrasas running under the influence of " " are giving misplaced and misconceived religious education to Muslim children, depriving them of opportunity to come forward and be part of nation building.
 
 Rizvi said that, "In the last 70 years of independence, there are only a handful people who have studied at madrasas and have cleared civil services examinations. These too have however gained modern education after studying in madrasas. But the number of terrorists coming out of madrasas is much higher." 
 
 The UP Shia Central Waqf Board chairperson, has also sent a circular from his office to all mutawwali's (caretakers) of Shia waqf properties across the state to shut down all un-registered madrasas, if any, running illegally on shia waqf land, till January 31.
 
 "Any unregistered madrasas found to be running on a   after January 31 will invite action under Indian law. If such madrasas continue to run on Shia waqf land, the mutawwalis will also face action," said Rizvi. 
 
 While Rizvi has claimed that madrasas have had a history of Muslim separatism and radicalisation and were also under British suspicion as centres promoting communal disharmony, he said that the institutions teach regressive curriculum which does not bring Muslim students at par with others. He has also said that they are funded by organisations running under the patronage of Pakistani government. 
 
 "Madrasas promote obsolete and outdated medieval attitude among Indian Muslims at the cost of secular education, which has pushed students into orthodoxy, religious conservatism and radicalises Muslim youth," he said. 
 
 As part of his suggestions to the central government through the letter, Rizvi has said that the madrasas should be brought under the ambit of government control under ministry of human resource development instead of minority affairs. He has also suggested conversion of madrasas into secular schools. 
 
 
 
 
 Raising a finger at Darul Uloom Nadwatul Ulama, Rizvi said, “I surveyed madrassas and found that they had no standardised syllabus. Visit Nadwa and ask for the syllabus and you shall get none. What are they teaching young minds, no one knows.”
 
 He said madrassas should be brought under the ministry of human resource development instead of minority affairs.
 
 When TOI contacted UP Board of Madrassa Education registrar Rahul Gupta, he countered Rizvi, saying, “In 15 years of my service, I have seen thousands of madrassas but never came across one where students were radicalised. Modern education is being imparted under the Central government’s scheme to provide quality education in madrassas.” Gupta said it was not compulsory for madrassas to register with the board.
 
 
 
