NEW DELHI: If agencies can manage to sustain their efforts towards curbing emissions,   may   to be a   for Delhi in terms of   of  . 

 Data released by the Central Pollution Control Board for its national air quality monitoring (NAMP) stations in Delhi showed that there was a minor decline in PM levels last year — the first time since 2013.
 
 This data corroborated CPCB’s recent claim that PM levels were lower in 2017 than 2016 and 2015 in CPCB’s network of automatic monitoring stations, which are different from those monitored under NAMP. The NAMP network consists of Pitampura, Siri Fort, Janakpuri, Nizamuddin, Shahzada Bagh and Shahdara. These locations are manually monitored and considered as primary reference by CPCB for policymaking and tracking long-term trends. 
 
 CPCB also conducts chemical speciation of pollutants at these locations. The data (being compiled since 2001) showed a consistent rise in PM levels in Delhi — the annual average was in “critical” category for both PM10 and PM2.5 in nearly all years. Data shared by CPCB also showed that annual average nickel levels in the air were in “critical” and “high” categories in 2009 and 2010, and intermittently in years after that. 
 
  
  
 On December 13, the SC directed the Union environment ministry to notify a comprehensive action plan within two weeks to mandate short-, medium- and long-term measures for all sources of pollution with deadlines. But the ministry has neither notified the plan nor held any meeting with the SC-mandated EPCA to finalise the timelines. 
 
 “If this improvement has to be sustained, then it important that the comprehensive action plan is notified and implemented immediately,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, CSE. The improvement in 2017 may be a combination of factors — both emergency action taken under the graded response action plan and SC’s orders, such as imposing an environmental compensation charge on trucks in 2016. But experts pointed out that the PM levels were still 2 to 3 times the safe standard. 
 
 An ex-CPCB chairman said: “I don’t think we should take this minor improvement very seriously as PM levels are still way higher than the standard. Maybe, we can recognise their efforts when PM pollution meets the standard. Even though CPCB claims that NAMP data is used to guide policy, there is a large variation in data monitored by them manually and data recorded by automatic monitoring stations. I have doubts about the quality of CPCB’s monitoring infrastructure.”
 
 Dipankar Saha, head of CPCB’s air quality lab, said: “Meteorology plays a very important role in Delhi. I don’t think the improvement in air quality was because of meteorological factors; in fact, they were worse than in 2016. The improvement may be a result of coordinated action by various agencies.” He added: “There is a delay in notifying the comprehensive action plan as we need to hold meetings and consolidate various action plans into one.”
 
 
