KOLKATA: The Tollygunge women police wing on Thursday submitted the chargesheet in the case where a Class II student was allegedly sexually abused at a south Kolkata school by her dance teacher. The chargesheet was filed within 28 days of the incident at a special POCSO court.

 “This Women’s Day, we wanted to send out a message that such incidents will not be tolerated,” a senior officer at Lalbazar said. The incident — reported on February 2 — had led to a major guardian’s stir.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The chargesheet follows two others pertaining to incidents reported from south Kolkata and Behala. Public prosecutors told TOIthat this will go down as one of the fastest chargesheets that has been filed in a sexual assault case reported on school premises.
 
 According to sources, the accused Soumen Rana (21) has been charged under sections 6 and 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act along with   section 506 (threat).
 
 “Unlike the other two cases, there was no need for a ‘test identification parade’ as the accused was identified on day one. Similarly, both the medical and psycho analysis tests along with the plea to record her confidential statement before a magistrate (under CrPC section 164) was filed on the first day itself,” an officer said. “Moreover, unlike other cases, the IO chose to record just three confidential statements thereby managing to submit the chargesheet in record time,” the officer added. Special public prosecutor   said the bail hearing will come up on March 16.
 
 The victim’s mother was relieved that the chargesheet has been filed, but said she will wait to see how the trial pans out. “My daughter is receiving support from her teachers. But a section of guardians remains hostile and maintains that the accused is innocent,” she said.
 
 Defence lawyers   and   argued that the case was a “conspiracy” against the accused.
 
 “There was a delay of two days between the time the school was informed of the development and the time the family had filed the FIR. As a dance teacher, it was his duty to teach the child the right moves. But if that results in such a witch hunt, no male educator will feel safe teaching a girl,” argued Banik.
 
