CHANDIGARH: Long wait for getting occupation certificate of building, both residential and commercial, is about to end soon. After introducing the concept of self-certification for approval of building plans, the   administration is all set to issue occupation certificate through self-certification.

 Occupation certificate is a document issued by the estate office certifying a building’s compliance with laid down building codes and other laws and also indicating it to be in a condition suitable for occupancy. As per the norms, the allottes have to construct the building in a time-bound manner and obtain completion certificate. No person can occupy or allow any other person to occupy any part of a new building for any purpose issuance of occupation certificate.
 
 The system, which is part of reforms being implemented under ease of doing business, will help in expediting the scrutiny process by eliminating lengthy and cumbersome manual process. According to the citizen charter of the estate office, occupation certificate is to be approved in 20 days. As the process is marred by red tapism, it takes around two to three months in getting the certificate from the competent authority.
 
 Under the new system, the owner will have to submit an application to competent authority for grant of occupation certificate along with completion drawings, completion certificate and other documents. Detail of compoundable violations from the approved building plans, if any in the building, jointly signed by the owner, architect and structural engineer will also be submitted. The applicant will also have to submit photographs of front, side, rear setbacks, front and rear elevation of the building.
 
 Both the owner and architect will have to give a self-certification that no provision of the Chandigarh Building (Amendment) Rules (Urban) – 2018 has been violated excluding compoundable violations. The competent authority will issue an occupation certificate after receiving application duly complete in all respect and accompanied with the required documents. If any violation found during inspection, which is not listed in compoundable violations, then the violation be compounded and if the violation is non-compoundable it will have to be removed.
 
 The architect will have to ensure that construction is done as per the laid down building norms and will be held responsible in case the certificate furnished by him with regard to construction as per the building rules is found to be false.
 
 The system will be first introduced for commercial buildings and later for residential and industrial.
 
 Welcoming the move, city-based architect   said issuance of occupation certificate through self-certification will be of great relief to city residents. “They will be spared of ordeal of running from pillar to post for getting the occupation certificate,” said Joshi.
 
 BOX
 
 KEY REFORM
 
 Self-certification is part of the online building plan approval, which is oneof the key reforms recommended under the Business Reform Action Plan (BRAP) 2017. It includes a total of 372 recommendations framed by department of industrial policy and promotion (DIPP), ministry of commerce and industry, in association with the   and is to be implemented by all states and UTs. Introduction of the system will help administration in improving its ease of doing ranking.
 
 
