MOHALI: The  's decision not to shift the medical college in Mohali to Sangrur, has been welcomed by the residents and politicians alike. Following controversies over the decision to shift the college, the Congress-led government rescinded it. 

 Earlier this month, chief minister   directed health minister Brahm   to explore with the Union government the possibility of shifting the proposed college to a border area, possibly Sangrur. The move was questioned even by some   leaders among others.
 
 Mohindra said, "The actual problem was related to land. We decided to take 3.5 acres of land from the Government college, phase VI but the education department refused saying the land was meant for a playground. We need 20 acres of land to construct a medical college but when the land was not available, the CM asked us to explore aspects at Sangrur and as the project was also to be funded by the Union government, we were also asked to seek permission to shift the college without losing the grant. But the health ministry said that the shifting would forfeit the grant and was not allowed." 
 
 He added that Mohali MLA   had also met Mohindra and offered 9 acres of land near civil hospital. Mohindra said, "MLA Balbir Sidhu offered 9 acres of alnd in Jhujhar Nagar for which a resolution will be put in very soon."
 
 After saving the medical college for Mohali, Sidhu said, "I went to meet Mohindra and urged that the college must not be shifted from Mohali. He said that they were facing land problem and I offered them 9 acres of land in Jhujhar Nagar village behind civil hospital in Phase VI, Mohali for which a resolution has already been put up in MC."
 
 Reacting to the decision ex-MLA, Mohali, Bir Devinder Singh said, "There was certainly no tangible logic for the government to shift this proposed project to Sangrur. The decision was taken arbitrarily for extraneous reasons without the serious application of mind."
 
 J P Nadda, Union health minister in his DO letter written to the Punjab Government in March 2017, specifically asked the state about its eagerness to have the college in Mohali or else the Union government would shift it.
 
 
