GURGAON:   is planning to offer a new piece of land for a   that is obstructing the construction of an   from   to MG Road, after it failed to hand over the plot it had earlier allotted. Huda officials said they have three new sites in mind and are likely to make an offer on Saturday.

 According to NHAI officials, they cannot change the underpass design at this stage. The underpass, which will ease traffic flow for commuters who travel from Gurgaon to Delhi via MG Road, is 90 per cent complete and is being held up because of the petrol pump. The petrol pump, which has been operational since 1997, is located on the left of MG Road when going from   to Sikandarpur, nearly 250 metres from the site of construction of the underpass.
 
 Sukhjeet Mann, the petrol pump owner, said, “On August 2016, Huda offered an alternate site to HPCL for the petrol pump on NH8, near Ambience Mall, Sector 24-25. But when we visited the plot, we found a high tension line there and requested Huda to offer another plot, nearly 100 metres from the proposed site. On December 13, Huda sent us a letter, saying that the same plot had been allotted to us. We visited the site again and found a boundary wall had been raised there. There were private security guards patrolling the area and they told us not to enter the land.”
 
 The city administration even gave the no objection certificate (NOC) for the land to the petrol pump owner. “On December 21, we got the NOC for the plot from the deputy commissioner, which included the forest clearance. But now, Huda is planning to offer us a plot at a less prominent place,” said Mann. “My business has already taken a hit. Time and again, people call me and apply pressure to move from here. The shifting of the petrol pump will take 10 days and I am ready to do it immediately, but I want the land I was given.” 
 
 Huda, meanwhile, said that Mann would be given a new piece of land. Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav said, “We will allot a new plot for the petrol pump and this issue will be resolved soon.”
 
 Huda estate officer-II Vivek Kalia said, “Earlier, we had allotted a piece of land for the petrol pump on a temporary basis. We have not taken possession of that land from the license holder yet. The land has to be handed over to the senior town planner (STP) and then to Huda. It falls under the green belt area and was to be transferred to us but that has not happened yet.” He added, “We have shown three or four plots to the petrol pump owner and sometimes, the owner does not like the site, so this takes time. I will try to break this deadlock.”
 
 Vinay Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner, said, “Huda has done nothing wrong. It had had allotted a plot for the petrol pump but that plot is not in their possession. Now, they will offer another plot. The petrol pump owner will have to get a NOC for the new plot.”
 
 
