Nagpur: Women have proved themselves over a period of time, but they should now come forward with renewed energy to take key position and showcase their ability and talent, said Meera Khadakkar, retired judge of the family court, on Friday. It was noticed that the current representation of women in various sectors was comparatively less for which all-out efforts should be made to empower them. Women should not just remain a topic for debate competitions, but earn recognition for doing outstanding work, Khadakkar said. She was speaking as the chief guest at the awards distribution function organized by Maharshi Karve Stree Shakti Shikshan Sanstha at Sai Sabhagruh (MKSSS).  Bhagyashree Gandhi Deshpande was awarded the Shrimati Shakuntala Nargundkar Smruti Puraskar for her work in the field of education at the function organized to mark the International Women’s Day.  Replying to the felicitation, Deshpande said education is a tool to dream for a better future. Therefore, the primary goal of every individual is to get education. Though several initiatives are being taken, access women have to education is not up to the expectations. Women should stand together as a community and work towards their development with education being the key weapon in fight against inequality, said Deshpande. A healthy society is the one in which men and women play roles that are equal and at the same time productive in nature. Therefore, due credit should be given to men who work for the uplift of women, said Deshpande, an engineer-turned-academician. She is the co-founder and principal of Abhyudaya Global Village School, Khapa, near Saoner, which is engaged in shaping the rural face of the region. Vice-chairman of MKSSS MD Patil said numerous opportunities are coming up for women and they should give full justice to them. With the government aiding the women start-ups, new doors have opened and therefore girls should take full advantage of various schemes, Patil added. Chairman of Nagpur chapter of MKSSS Milind Kukde said, the main goal behind organizing the event was to bring to limelight people, especially women, who have done something for the society and devoted their time for the betterment of people. “Our goal will be achieved if just one girl from the audience is inspired by the programme and is encouraged to pursue her dreams.”