Eminent theatre personality Sanjna Kapoor was in her element when she took the stage at the  , recently. Dwelling on her family’s passion for theatre, her talk, ‘Junoon of the Kapoors and Kendals’ hooked the audience right from the word go. She kept going back-and-forth in time weaving some previously unknown details about her life along with interesting anecdotes about her paternal grandfather, Prithiviraj Kapoor’s theatre company, Prithivi Theatre and her maternal grandfather, Geoffrey Kendal’s love for India and her parents —   and  . 
The crowd listened in rapt attention throughout, occasionally breaking into applause. After she took a bow to a roaring audience, Sanjna sat down for a coffee chat with Hyderabad Times. Excerpts...
 
 
 It’s been over a month since her dad Shashi Kapoor passed away and Sanjna says though it was hard to cope up with the loss, all the love and respect that poured in from people all over the world left her moved. “I haven’t yet gone through all the condolence letters we received. I was overwhelmed to see so much love and respect pouring in from so many people. I keep telling myself that I am going to do it this weekend, but it hasn’t materialised yet,” she says adding, “The first ten days were all about being with the family and gradually I got busy, but sometimes his absence hits me out of the blue. He hasn’t been keeping well for three months before he passed away. And, we were kind of prepared for the inevitable.” 
 
 
 
 Sanjna shares a special bond with Hyderabad. “My first visit to the city was with my parents. My father was shooting for Heat And Dust (a English romantic drama released in 1983) and I was visiting him with my mother. It was a hot summer afternoon and we were shopping glass bangles in Laad Bazaar, Charminar. I was thirsty and was repeatedly telling my mother about it. She however, chose not to pay heed to my protestations and a few minutes later, I fainted on the floor of a shop due to dehydration. But after a few days, I went back again and bought a lot of bangles,” she fondly recalls, ruing that today the glass bangles have given way to metal ones in the market. Sanjna made many more visits to the city thereafter. “I also came to shoot for my film, Hero Hiralal here and stayed in a hotel in Banjara Hills. I think it was called the Rock Castle Hotel back then,” she says. Hero Hiralal though, is one film, she isn’t too fond of talking about. “But, the more I try to distance myself from the film, the more people use it as an alibi to start a conversation thanks to the countless times the film has been aired so far,” she quips.
 
 
 
 She doesn’t regret her stint with Bollywood though as it made her realise that she was not cut out for it. “I have acquired the art of learning from mistakes from both my grandfathers and my father; it is an accepted axiom in the family, you see,” she jests. Though she has consciously distanced herself from Bollywood, quite a few stars look up to her as their first acting teacher. “I know. Varun (Dhawan) once put up my picture with him on social media, but I am not really his first teacher or anything. Yes, he did attend a few acting workshops under my direction in the Prithvi Theatre and that’s about it. I didn’t know who he was then. In fact,   too attended a few workshops at our theatre but I wasn’t the director,” she clarifies. 
 So, who is she is close to in Bollywood? “Actually, none! I am not close to anyone,” she smartly brushes off the query, adding, “Quasar Padamsee keeps telling me that I should have made a career in Bollywood so that I could fund my theatre projects; something, which my paternal grandfather pulled off successfully.” 
 
 
 
 Theatre is what Sanjna has dedicated her life to and she says her lineage made that decision easy for her. “Maybe my father wanted to be an out-an-out theatre artiste, but when he became a parent, he had to make the tough decision of joining cinema,” she says. Sanjna doesn’t look at herself just as an actor but rather as a mix of both — actor and manager. “I have genes of both my grandparents; while one was an actor par excellence, the other, was an exceptional manager,” she says referring to Prithviraj and Geoffrey. However, she doesn’t believe that theatre can bring about social change. “Tell me one play that has changed the world. None. I am not an aggressive person and not political at all. But I don’t consider politics as something harmful. Yes, party politics is injurious, but the whole idea of politics isn’t. And art can’t be 
 apolitical,” she opines. 
 
 
 
 Sanjna makes it a point to take time off from her busy schedule to unwind by going for safaris and scuba diving. “That’s because my husband is a wildlife conservationist. And we do it every year. We go to Africa and spend long periods, say around six weeks, there. Because to understand the habitat, movements and nature of the animals, you have to spend time with them; you can’t just stay at a place for two days and move to another,” she says, adding that these trips sometimes inspire her theatre workshops, especially with children. “I want to bring out the interconnectivity in all living beings and make children understand it in a deep way,” she informs, signing off. 
 
