MUMBAI: Residents of the plush 36-storey   in   claim to be landlocked. Their reason: Dilapidated walls are blocking the two access paths into their building.

 On Tuesday, acting on a complaint from the residents, officials from BMC’s G-South ward office reached the spot to demolish a “dilapidated” wall to widen the access route to the housing society. But they returned without taking any action after the adjoining industrial estate, which shares the wall, pointed out that they had received no such   from the  , hence they could not raze the wall. 
 
 Upset residents then dashed off a letter to local assistant municipal commissioner Devendra Kumar Jain alleging “a grave threat to the society owing to the wall which is obstructing their access way”. The letter stated: “The dilapidated, illegal wall at the Gandhi Nagar side of our complex poses a serious threat to our families...who have, in the past, failed to get immediate access to emergency services like ambulances and fire brigade. Are we waiting for another Kamala Mills-like tragedy?” 
 
 Bhavik Shah, joint treasurer of the society, said, “We feel landlocked as the current access to the building is not wide enough. There are 250 flats on the premises and in a case of an emergency, evacuation would be very difficult.” Resident Charulata Ravi Kumar said both entrances into the building are not easily accessible. “Getting inside the building from the other   is very time-consuming as it is further from the road. In fact, I prefer walking out instead of taking my car to save time,” said Kumar. 
 
 Jain confirmed that civic officials had visited the premises on Tuesday, but as no notice was given to the neighbouring industrial estate, action could not be initiated. “We will now send them a notice and then take action, as per the law,” he added. 
 
 A spokesperson of   said they would like to resolve the matter amicably. “But owing to the vested interest of some parties involved, it is not happening. If the wall was dilapilated, we should have been informed so that it could have been repaired.” 
 
 
