Young actress  , who will be seen paired with   in the upcoming film  , is an engineer in the making. But even before the acting bug bit the youngster, she was sure that she did not want to make a living out of her academic pursuit. The turning point happened when an acquaintance of her mother asked if Prerana would want to audition for a role in the Kannada serial,  . “I got the role of Revati, Sati’s sister, in the earlier part of the series, and featured right until Sati’s death. The entire cast had to move to Mumbai for the shoot and I was there for about four months. The time away from home was the defining moment for me. I realized that I loved acting and that I want to make a career out of showbiz,” says Prerana.
After her stint on TV, the actress made the shift to the big screen with a horror flick, which “unfortunately did not do well at the BO.” Luckily for her, the team of Raghu Shivamogga’s Churikatte was on the lookout for a leading lady and Prerana bagged the part, which, she says is polar opposite to how she is in real life. “My character, Kala, is a sweet and innocent girl from a village. Until we began shooting the film, I had never been to a village or experienced life in such a set up. In that sense, it was a new experience for me. Even the deglam desi look that I sport is far from how I am in real life,” she says. According to Raghu, Kala is not a regular heroine who appears only for song-and-dance routines. “She is pivotal to the narrative and her character brings in the twist in the tale,” he had told us. This, Prerana says, was also why she decided to be a part of the film.
 Working with her co-star, Praveen, adds Prerana was exciting, as she had met him a couple of years ago when he visited her college to promote his film, Simpallag Innondh Love Story. “When I saw him on our campus back then, I wished to be in that situation someday and be on a stage to talk about my film. On the set, he was a very cooperative co-star and helped me do my best,” she says.
 Considering that she has been part of a very popular serial and is now doing films, Prerana must be a mini celebrity in college, we wonder. “I have tried my best to maintain a low profile, as people tend to treat me differently once they know I work in showbiz. Right now, I am still able to enjoy being a normal student on campus, even though my teachers and a few of my close pals know about my ambition. I want it to remain that way,” she signs off.
 
