MADURAI: Police have launched an investigation after three labourers from Odisha were found dead in their work uniforms in a well near   in Dindigul district on Friday.

 The deceased were identified as  , 25,  , 20, and Bolo Shankar Malik, 23, who came from Odisha to the district to make a living. They were working in a spinning mill in  , near Vadamadurai.
 
 Vadamadurai police said that the incident came to light on Thursday evening, after the farmers spotted the inanimate bodies of the trio in the well. The bodies were shifted to the Dindigul government hospital where a post mortem examination was conducted on them. 
 
 Though investigation has revealed there was no external injury on the bodies, police have not yet ruled out the possibility of wilful murders. A team led by Vedasandur police superintendent Sivakumar has been carrying out an inquiry.
 
 Police suspected that labourers might have fallen into the open well accidently while running for cover from an inter-workers clash inside the mill in the night. 
 
 It was learnt that the clash broke out between the migrant labourers and local workers when one of the former teased a girl in the mill. As a local worker questioned his action, the migrant labourers allegedly attacked him. 
 
 Later, a few local labourers joined hands and retaliated, leading to physical bout between the groups. Police said that the migrant labourers started fleeing the scene as the clash heated up. The three workers were believed to have fallen into the well while running to safety.
 
 A police officer said that there are 70 migrant labourers in the mill, and a majority of them were from Odisha. The trio joined the company only recently and did not know much about the places around the mill, the police added.
 
 “The investigation revealed that it was not a bloody altercation and the trio were not part of it. They must have run away for fear of being attacked,” police said. The manager of the mill had maintained that all the workers were present in the mill following the altercation. Otherwise, the deaths would have come to light on Tuesday night.
 
 
