GURUGRAM: The   (DEO) finally organised a draw of lots on Wednesday and selected 15 schools where the school safety committee will carry out checks from January 23. The committee members, however, told TOI that the DEO held the draw without informing them about it.

 The district administration had formed a school   to check security arrangements in schools in December. On December 5, the committee came up with safety guidelines for schools and planned random inspections. The schools to be inspected were to be selected by a draw of lots by the DEO before January 5. It was to be held in the presence of two members of the committee and two others who were not part of it.
 
 DEO Ram Kumar said, “The draw of lots could not take place on time because the members of the committee were not available. When I tried contacting them, I could not get hold of two of them together. However, now, we have conducted the draw of lots and the   of schools will start soon.” Initially, the DEO said the inspection would start from Thursday. However, late on Wednesday night, he revised the date so that the designated safety team can organise itself and devise the audit format. The team will have three members, including representatives of the DEO, the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) and the police. 
 
 Refuting Ram Kumar’s claim, Dr Shweta Sharma, member of the committee, said, “We had been left in the dark by the DEO. He is saying that the committee members were not available but when did he contact us? All of us have been there, he just did not call us for the draw of lots.” 
 
 Capt Gurmeet, a committee member, said, “I was assigned the task of forming the transport guidelines and I have submitted my report. The draw of lots was proposed at the meeting but it didn’t happen within the proposed time.” Smriti Chabra, another member, said, “We were told that the draw of lots would be conducted by the district education officer by January 5, but nothing was done within the deadline.” 
 
 The school safety committee has at least 15 members, including representatives from the school management, the education department, the police, the RTA, the parents, a clinical psychologist and a consultant from Security Sector Skill Development Council (SSSDC). The district administration wants all private schools to adhere to at least eight basic safety norms, as mandated by Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Haryana School Education Act. 
 
 
