Ahead of PM’s “informal summit” with Russian President Putin, a key discussion between the countries seemed to be getting tougher. Over the weekend, Putin’s special envoy Zamir   was quoted as saying that the West (read the US) should make a deal with the   directly or continue with a “grinding and bloody war for years to come”. 

 
 Russia, particularly Kabulov, has opened visible channels of communication with the Taliban, ostensibly with the aim of checking the growth of Daesh in the troubled country, particularly to stop it from threatening  . 
 
 Kabulov told Bloomberg that US’ refusal to talk to the Taliban is “why we are at a dead-end”. “We went through this when Soviet troops were there, it was a very similar picture,” said Kabulov, who forecasts increasing Taliban control of the war-torn country. “Another 5,000 or even 50,000 troops won’t help. It’s not going to get any better.” India appears caught in the middle. 
 
 New Delhi cannot make peace with Taliban, because they regard it as an outpost of the Pakistan army-ISI conglomerate. Giving Taliban space in the Afghan power structure would be tantamount to giving Pakistan its much vaunted “strategic depth”. That is not something that bothers Russia much, and that is creating a growing gap between India and Russia. 
 
 None of India’s explanations has cut much ice with Moscow. Russia has often reassured India it would not work against Indian interests, but that claim is coming under increasing strain. 
 
 The US is on a different page. They treat the Taliban as a terror group and are continuing airstrikes against them. But   has also given full support to Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s unconditional offer for talks to the Taliban made in February. 
 
 US senior official for South Asia, Alice Wells, told TOIthe US was pushing Pakistan to persuade the Taliban to open talks with Ghani. “We want to continue the military effort, continue to close down the sanctuaries or scope of sanctuaries, continue to pursue even more rigorous counterterror and anti-money laundering provisions” in Pakistan. 
 
 Kabulov was also quoted as saying, “We realise that Pakistan and  , not Russia or the US, are the two key players in the Afghan settlement,” he said. “We are trying to develop a dialogue with Pakistan and jointly search for solutions.” That would be absolutely against India’s interests.
 
