PATNA: Within hours of the announcement of Patna University Students’ Union (PUSU) election, at least 30 low-intensity explosives, gunpowder, threads and boxes used for manufacturing country-made bombs were recovered from Patna College premises under the Pirbahore police station area on Wednesday.

 Police sources said the recovery was made by a dog squad which was deployed under special security measures on the Patna university ( ) campus and its surrounding educational establishments that have the history of violence during Saraswati Puja, which is on January 22. The step was also taken in view of the PUSU election scheduled to take place on February 17.
 
 City SP (Central) D Amarkesh said the explosives were hidden for manufacturing crude bombs. No one was arrested in this connection.
 
 Pirbahore police station SHO Ghulam Sarvar said the raw materials for making bombs were packed in a plastic bag and kept behind Iqbal hostel. “The area is not accessed by the common man and the materials were hidden behind the bushes,” the SHO said.
 
 “Keeping the Saraswati Puja celebrations in mind, the search operation was launched on Wednesday,” he said.
 
 Sarvar said crude bombs were hurled inside the Nutan hostel during Saraswati Puja last year. “Several violent incidents had taken place in and around the hostel area in the past,” Sarvar said, adding the operation would continue up to puja and again before the PUSU election.
 
 Crushed to death: One Hitesh Kumar (30) of Kanti Factory Mor area in the city was crushed to death between two heavy vehicles at Gola Road Mor under the Rupaspur police station area on Wednesday. Hitesh was a sand trader.
 
 Rupaspur police station SHO Deepak Kumar said the incident took place at around 2am at the traffic signal near Gola Road. Hitesh, along with a friend, was coming from Saguna Mor when a truck dashed against his bike from behind. “The two collided with another truck moving in front of them. Hitesh’s bike was mashed between the two trucks. Hitesh died on the spot while his friend is seriously injured,” the SHO said.
 
 
