Chennai: The Income Tax department has frozen some of the bank accounts of Cognizant Technology Solutions India P Ltd (CTS) to recover Rs 2,500 crore which the Indian arm of NASDAQ-listed Cognizant owes as dividend distribution tax (DDT) to the government.

  “As per the Income Tax Act, DDT needs to be paid on any distribution, reduction of capital, to the extent of accumulated profits defined as dividends. The only exception to this is the buy-back under section 77A of the Companies Act and CTS was not covered. Therefore, CTS was required to pay DDT to the extent of Rs 2,500 crore in the financial year 2016-17 itself, but has not paid so far,” said a senior tax official.
 
 The department said that CTS purchased its own shares from its shareholders in May 2016 under the scheme of arrangement and compromise — between the shareholders and the company — in accordance with Section 391 to 393 of the Companies Act. “The shareholders are a Mauritius entity and an American Company, holding 54% and 46% of shares respectively. CTS did not deduct tax on the remittances to the Mauritius company, but deducted 10% as tax on the remittances to the USA Company,” said the official.
 
 The tax department’s action is to recover the unpaid DDT, and as a first step it has attached the company’s bank accounts with deposits in excess of Rs 2,500 crore in Chennai and Mumbai.
 
 “Cognizant’s business operations, our associates and our work with clients are not impacted by actions recently attempted by the Income Tax Department. The High Court of Chennai this (Tuesday) morning heard the matter and instructed the Income Tax Department to not take further action pending further hearings before the court. The company believes that the positions taken by the Indian Income Tax Department are contrary to law and without merit. Cognizant has paid all applicable taxes due on the transaction at issue. The company will continue to vigorously defend itself and will pursue all available legal remedies. Cognizant is committed to complying with the law in all jurisdictions where it operates,” said a CTS spokesperson.
 
 Tax officials alleged that CTS inserted clauses in the scheme of “arrangement and compromise’’ while seeking approval of the Madras high court claiming that the scheme shall not attract DDT, shall not be treated as capital reduction or a buy-back under the Companies Act,” the official. The Madras high court, while granting the approval made it clear that its nod should not be construed as granting exemption for taxes and stamp duties, the official said. “Law mandated that distribution to shareholders is either in the form of dividends of profits and capital gain on distribution out of share capital. But CTS had paid only the face value of Rs 10 from the share capital and the entire balance was paid from the accumulated profits which was dividend and DDT was not paid for more than Rs 2,500 crore,” he said.
 
 CTS India P Ltd is a subsidiary of Nasdaq-listed Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp, which was trading flat at $81.60 Tuesday mid-morning on the US exchange.
 
 
 
