Nagpur: Tales full of emotions, motivation, kindness and humour reverberated in the third edition of the unique storytelling event Stories Worth Sharing ( ) held at a city café on Sunday.

 One of the participants Ashutosh Mundhada started the event on positive note by conveying a story with a moral to follow your passion and your pursuit to happiness. However, it took a turn when Sana Thombre narrated a serious story on how she, in her school days, hurt a girl by saying things without thinking and said, “I still carry that load with me. Always think twice before you speak because you never know what situation is one in.”
 
 Thereon, while Yashaswi Damani told lighthearted story about her heartbreak due to a failed attempt to satiate her craving for dosas, Abhishek Nandurkar tickled everyone's funny bones with his hilarious story about his trip to Kasol in Himachal Pradesh.
 
 The most striking story of the evening was by Danish Khan who communicated about the time he gathered an uncalled will to help a girl and thereby saving her from committing suicide. He said, “When you witness anyone in the need of help, just go for it without giving much thought.” 
 
 Another story that inspired everyone was of the twin brothers Ritwik and Satwik who are suffering from cerebral palsy and yet working towards their dreams. Vedanti Bobde and Pallavi Gangwani also inspired the attendees with their stories that showed their strength and positive attitude in times as difficult as demise of loved ones.
 
 Further, Himanshu Sontakke spoke about how due to hardships in life, he went for incorrect indulgences like alcohol and smoking but got rid of it in just one day. “It's all about what you want to choose,” he said.
 
 The narratives that proved that humanity and kindness still exists in the world were presented by Ritika Agrawal and Pallavi Wadhai where during a few instances they were helped selflessly by strangers. 
 
 The event saw listeners and 16 speakers of different age groups. Purva Sonegaonkar, the Nagpur chapter head of SWS, engaged the crowd well in between the speakers with her own bag of interesting stories.
 
 “Such storytelling sessions give us opportunities to find inspiration from day-to-day instances and it feels great to know that someone out there is listening to your story too,” said Sonegaonkar, while speaking to TOI.
 
 The event ended with people sharing notes of appreciation and words of affection with each other.
 
 
