GREATER NOIDA: Visitors to the  , who booked tickets online via the BookMyShow app, or got them from the vendors at the event, complained that their tickets were not accepted at the entry gates.

 A group of nearly 100 visitors gathered at Gate 1 around 2.30pm and got into heated arguments with the guards who asked them to show print-outs of their tickets at the counter.
 
 A few officials arrived to diffuse the tension as chaos ensued outside the gate. “The visitors were disappointed after they were denied entry and argued with security guards,” a sub inspector told TOI outside Gate 1. Most visitors refused to wait for the shuttle service provided for transporting them to the parking lot located at a distance of 500m to one kilometre from the gates.
 
 Sulabh Sharma, a visitor, said they were asked to get   at the counter for which they had to wait for the shuttle for over 20 minutes.
 
 “We had got the tickets for the motor show booked online and arrived at Gate 1 around 2pm. However, we were denied the same by the guards and asked to get a print-out of the tickets from the counter near the parking lot,” he said.
 
 “Most of the shuttle buses were too crowded and came at a gap of over 15 minutes. Moreover, why should we get a ticket booked online if we have to get a printout?” asked Sandhya Singh, who booked tickets online for her family members.
 
 The businessmen, who came with passes gifted by their vendors, complained that they were asked for the email ID, booking ID and the last four digits of the credit/debit card used for the booking process.
 
 Ravi Sharma from Delhi was one such visitor who got into heated arguments with the representatives of BookMyShow at the ticket counter.
 
 “One of my friends had gifted the pass to me and they are seeking details like booking ID, phone number, identity proof, etc. If a vendor working with us hands over certain number of passes in bulk, he will do it on behalf of the company and will not be able to provide the details of the booking made. This does not happen even in cinema halls or events like the Comicon,” Sharma said.
 
 A BookMyShow representative at the counter said the details were sought so that it can be verified whether the same person has booked the ticket.
 
 Vishnu Mathur, director general, Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers, said they had been following the same “time-tested process for the past two times.”
 
 
