MARGAO:   and John Gregory are new to the world of the   but both coaches have been adequately briefed about the history between   and  .
 
  To rewind, it all started in the inaugural edition when Marco Materazzi brought his team to the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda and, much to the then coach Zico’s chagrin, disrupted FC Goa’s play to walk away with full points. Materazzi was back in Goa the next year and what transpired during and after that infamous final in 2015 is well documented.
  
  Chennaiyin FC scored two goals within three minutes of added time to script an incredible 3-2 victory and then captain Elano Blumer’s arrest for assaulting FC Goa co-owner Dattaraj Salgaocar left a divide that has been difficult to heal.
  
  “Yes, I am aware of the history. I am sure the fans are very keen that we win. It’s a special game. We are all aware of who we are playing against. Hopefully, we can get an important win for the team, particularly for all the fans who travelled to Bengaluru and we couldn’t give them the happiness of having won the game. This is also for all the fans who will come for the game,” said FC Goa coach Sergio Lobera.
  
  Interestingly, Lobera also made a special mention of former FC Goa midfielder Joffre Gonzalez, who will be present in the stands for the clash against Chennaiyin FC.
  
  “Hopefully, we can give Joffre some happiness as well. He is someone who knows about the history and played in the matches (against Chennaiyin FC),” said Lobera, who was recommended to the club by the former Spanish midfielder.
  
  Lobera’s counterpart, John Gregory, isn’t immune to all the talk surrounding the clash between two teams whose fans cannot see eye-to-eye.
  
  “There have been some great games between the two teams over the years. Obviously, I have not been here to witness but I have watched them on TV, none more so than the final in 2015. I believe the final game of last season ended up 5-4. There has always been goals between the two teams. I am hoping there will be goals between us both and I am hoping we get more than Goa,” said Gregory.
