PATNA: State social welfare department minister   inaugurated an adolescent cell to mark the   on Monday. The newly opened cell will function under   (WDC). It will provide linkage for better management of several government programmes for adolescents being run by different departments of the state government.

 
 The cell will also work towards creating awareness about menstrual hygiene among adolescent girls in the state. As per National Family Health Survey- 4 data, only 31% of women in   use sanitary pads.
 
 “Unhygienic menstrual practices can lead to several diseases, including uterus cancer. The state government has increased the annual fund for each adolescent girl from Rs 150 to Rs 300,” the minister said. 
 
 WDC managing director N Vijay Lakshmi said adolescents in the age group of 10 to 19 years represent 22.47% of Bihar’s total population (Census 2011). “Of the total adolescent population in the state, 59.50% are in the age group of 10-14 years and 40.50% in the age group of 15-19 years,” Lakshmi said. Among the adolescent population in the state, 46% are girls.
 
 She added 100 women from 20% of the 8,200 gram panchayats in the state would be trained on menstrual hygiene management so that they could play the role of peer educators in their respective areas. “Under Mukhyamantri Kanya Uthhan Yojna, Rs 44,700 has been allocated for each girl with conditional capping until she completes her graduation. An additional Rs 25,000 will be given to each girl who remains unmarried till her graduation,” she said.
 
 Jyoti Kumari, an adolescent peer educator from   in Vaishali district, recounted her experience of menstruation for the first time and how her mother counselled her with the caution that she should not tell this to anyone.
 
 Kumari Puja, an anganwadi worker from Rajpakhar, said they should be trained on menstrual hygiene management.
 
 The programme, organised in collaboration with the Unicef, was attended by Unicef Bihar chief Asadur Rahman, project director in charge at WDC Rupesh Sinha and social worker Sudha Varghese.
 
 
