Nashik: The district administration has not been able to clear the caste certificates of as many as 486 students for over a month now and with the admission season about to begin, the number is about to swell.

 “There are over 450 caste certificates still pending with the concerned deputy collector awaiting his signature. It will be cleared soon,” a senior official from the district administration said.
 
 The responsibility of clearing the caste-certificates lay with the officer of the rank of sub-divisional officer. Currently, Sopan Kasar, who is the relief and rehabilitation officer of Nashik, is the one responsible for clearing the certificates. He is also the controller of the gram panchayat elections which will be held on May 28.
 
 “The official has many things at his disposal. He is therefore not available for the signature on the certificates. When we go and inquire about the status we are only told that the official is busy with election duty. Does that mean the requests made by citizens are put on hold?” Ramesh Gangurde, who filed an application about seven weeks ago, said.
 
 It should be noted that the Nashik district has topped the chart in online filing of applications and making digital certificates available to the applicants online as part of e-district programme.
 
 “Though the administration is brow-beating about its achievements, the fact that the caste certificates are getting delayed is not welcomed. We had filed the application earlier because we didn’t want to be the part of the rush. But by the given status of the applications we are not very confident that the process will be executed fast – especially with the rush that is about to begin,” Kailas Patil, another applicant, said.
 
 The administration, however, promised to take steps to ensure the applications were cleared at the earliest. “Soon the season of results and admissions will begin. We are sure the requests will be large in numbers. We will, therefore, take corrective measures to cut down the pendency,” a senior official from the collectorate said. 
 
 
