Greater Noida: In the wake of threats, cinema halls in Jewar and Dankaur have deferred screening of the movie ‘Padmaavat,’ fearing a backlash from the fringe groups. The cinema hall owners were reportedly warned by the   Utthan Sabha and Karni Sena against showing the movie.

 However, the movie was screened amid tight security in both Noida and Greater Noida with cops deployed outside all the malls of the cities including the TGIP Mall, DLF Mall of India, Spice Mall, Ansal Plaza, The Grand Venice Mall, Inox Mall, etc
 
 In Jewar and Dankaur, the cinema hall owners had written to the district magistrate and informed the cops, but they were reportedly cautioned by the police to not screen the movie.
 
 A cinema hall owner said, “We had written to the district magistrate on Monday and informed him about the threat by these outfits and also spoke to the local police. However, the signal we got from police was that we should not show the film in this area as it might affect law and order situation. We will have to weigh the situation before showing the movie.”
 
 Dhiraj Singh, president, western UP unit of Rajput Utthan Sabha admitted that he had indeed ‘spoken’ to the management of the only movie hall in Jewar and  .
 
 Most cinemas and talkies in Dadri are refraining from screening the film and police attributed it to the fact that these were single screens and not multiplexes. “The single-screens do not generally show these films. But, if someone wants to show, we will provide security to them,” circle officer, Dadri, Nishank Sharma told TOI.
 
 Circle officer, Jewar, Jagat Ram Joshi said the police have not discouraged anyone from showing the movie and they will provide security.
 
 Disrict magistrate BN Singh said that the hall owners have met him but it was up to them to release the movie or not.
 
 While the morning shows saw very lean audience at most of the malls in the cities, the rush increased towards the afternoon.
 
 “It was a good movie and I did not find any controversial scene and most dialogues glorified the Rajputs. However, I felt that the story-line could have been better if there were no missing links between scenes,” Mamta Sharma, a resident of Sector 26 who watched the movie at the TGIP Mall said.
 
 
