CHENNAI: A four-man gang hacked to death a 43-year-old realtor, even as his daughter pleaded for help from terrified bystanders, in   on Tuesday morning. 

 The assailants set upon Kandhan with sickles at 7.30am, while he was giving his daughter  , 20, a ride to her college in Adyar on a scooter, on  , barely 500m from their house on   in West Mambalam. 
 
  One of the killers attacked Keerthana when she tried to pull him away from her father, investigators quoted witnesses as saying of the slaying, a crime that underscored the impunity with which violent criminals continue to operate in Chennai. 
 
 The assailants, who rained lethal blows upon Kandhan, made away only after they were certain that he was dead, leaving a bleeding Keerthana nearby. Investigators suspect a former business associate, Logu, 42, hatched the plot to murder Kandhan.
 
 
 
 An investigating officer said, “Two men on a motorcycle, both wearing  , and two of their accomplices in an autorickshaw trapped Kandhan shortly after he and his daughter had left home. Ignoring the morning bustle in the locality, they launched a savage attack on the realtor. Passersby were too scared to intervene.”
 
 “Keerthana, a second-year BCom student, tried to defend her father and was injured when a gang member attacked her,” he said. “She is receiving treatment at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. We spoke with her and asked if she could identify any of the culprits.”
 
 The Kumaran Nagar police registered a case. Investigators gathered security camera footage from buildings near the crime scene and hope to quickly identify the two autorickshaw-borne assailants who, unlike their accomplices on the motorcycle, made no attempt to conceal their identity.
 
 An officer with the Kumaran Nagar police said Kandhan and Logu, the prime suspect, ran a cable business together two years ago. A probe of the 2010 murder of repeat offender ‘Pallu’ Rajendran pointed to the involvement of Kandhan and Logu, who police have detained five times under the Goondas Act, he said. “Kandhan and Logu fell out after a while and Logu started his own business,” the officer said. “Police arrested Logu early last year and a court remanded him in judicial custody but he jumped bail and went into hiding.”
 
 Apolice team convinced Kandhan to reveal Logu’s whereabouts and in July rearrested him from a safe house in Chitlapakkam. “Logu, booked under Goondas Act but released a few months later, vowed to take revenge on Kandhan,” the officer said. “We suspect that he made plans to eliminate Kandhan as soon as he obtained bail again.” Kandhan, who moved to his house in West Mambalam from Kannamapet four years ago, and his wife Bhuvaneshwari have a daughter, Keerthana, and a son, Ramesh.
 
