Puducherry: Twenty postgraduate medical   of total 84 seats under government quota and 44 out of total 81 seats under management quota in the three private   colleges and hospitals remained vacant after the second round of counselling conducted by the Centralized Admission Committee (Centac) in the Union territory of  .

 The committee, which released the allotment lists on Wednesday, directed students to register objections, if any, before 5pm on Thursday. It directed the candidates who were allotted seats under management quota to pay the forfeiture fees before the deadline . The committee allotted all the three seats in the Indira Gandhi government medical college and research institute in the second round of counselling. It reserved one seat in general medicine under government quota in Sri Venkateshwaraa medical college and hospital (SVMC) following a direction from the Madras High Court.
 
 Management seats were allotted in the institute of medical sciences (Pims) (religious minority: Christians) and SVMC (linguistic minority: Telugu) for the respective minority students. The allotment lists were generated through a computer module based on the merit, reservation and preferences of the candidates. It also extended horizontal reservation as per existing norms.
 
 However, a few candidates, who were allotted seats in the first round of counselling but opted for upgradation and attended the second round of counselling, complained that the updation was not done. They were surprised that the specialities they sought in the colleges were allotted to candidates ranked below them in the merit list. Sources in the committee said the anomaly was due to a software error and assured revision of provisional allotment lists.
 
 There are eight medical colleges and hospitals besides Jawaharlal institute of postgraduate medical education and research (Jipmer). Centac holds counselling for admission in the government medical college and three private medical colleges. The director general of health services, New Delhi holds counselling for admissions in the four colleges affiliated to deemed universities. 
 
 
