KOLKATA: The  , who staged a   against the   by elderly passengers at   by   outside   on Wednesday — a kind of protest never seen before in the city — were back to work on Thursday but vowed to continue the fight against moral policing across different forums and, if needed, hit the streets again.

 
 “It’s not an everyday thing for us to come on the road and protest against every issue that bothers us. But the idea behind celebrating hug day on Wednesday was to start something and I think we were successful in our attempt. We did not bother anyone at the station and did not violate any norm while spreading the message of love. I will continue to spread this message using art and music, the field I specialize in,” said Rahul Chakraborty, a painter by profession.
 
 Chakraborty was among the 100 odd protestors who turned outside the Tolllygunge Metro station on Wednesday singing songs, strumming guitar and hugging everyone — from strangers, friends, passersby and even policemen. The group even travelled in Metro trains, with several others joining in from different stations, and kept roaming in trains holding placards and shouting “free hugs”. While some passengers responded, there were even those who shied away and others, who thought it was in a bad taste.
 
 “We do not belong to any political party or organised group that we would organize a similar movement everyday. But it is about spreading a message of love and an attempt to change the mentality of some people. It is very difficult to change them at one go. But at least the process has begun and we wanted to be part of it,” said Sreetama Dutta, a junior school teacher.
 
 Second-year college student Sayantani Boral, who was also at the protest meet on Wednesday but was back to her studies on Thursday, said being part of the protest has also brought out the real courageous self in her.
 
 “When I travel in public transport, it has become a regular feature of being groped and molested by strangers and often being scorned for the kind of clothes we wear. Till date, I never had the courage to step up and protest or even stand by someone who was being harassed. The protest has given me the courage to protest and also to stand by anyone, be it a friend or a stranger whenever he/ she is harassed or being faced by the moral police,” said Sayantani, a Salt Lake resident and a student of Bidhannagar College.
 
 Actor Aditya Sengupta, who was also part of the protest on Thursday was back at work shooting for a new project on Thursday but said he will carry forward the attempt to be the change at his home as well as workplace.
 
 “There is an old saying – Charity begins at home. I firmly believe in it. What the elderly passengers had done is something our parents, grandparents and neighbourhood uncles and auntys had been doing and commenting from long. I don’t know about others, but I will try to make them understand first that the society is changing and that they should adapt to the changes,” said Sengupta of ‘Prajapati Biskut’ fame.
 
 
