KOLKATA: Blood, they say, flows thicker than water. But a little girl with an extremely rare   type who suffers from a congenital cardiac ailment received a gift of life thanks to the combined effort and generosity of complete strangers across Odisha, Jharkhand and  . 

 Iteeshree, now 4, was born in Odisha’s Dhenkanal with a hole in her heart, a condition called ostium secundum atrial septal defect, which comprises 6% to 10% of all congenital heart defects. Because of this, in layman’s terms, the pure and impure blood gets mixed, overloading the heart. If not corrected promptly, the condition leads to serious heart ailments in the long run. 
 
  
 Iteeshree came to a Howrah hospital for correctional surgery in March. Before coming to Bengal, father Sanjay Nayak, a cultivator, had crossed the first hurdle: arranging funds, thanks to the Odisha government. But Sanjay had a much bigger battle ahead. Before the surgery, doctors discovered Iteeshree had the extremely rare Bombay blood group. The problem is that people with this blood group can only receive blood from someone who has Bombay blood, though they can donate it to anyone. In case of surgeries, where blood for transfusion has to be kept ready for the patient, this poses a serious challenge, since the Bombay blood group occurs only in 1 in 10,000 Indians.
 
 “We conduct such correctional surgeries on and off, and were therefore confident of the outcome,” said Dr Amitabha Chattopadhyay, a paediatric cardiologist at Narayana Superspeciality Hospital, Howrah. “But, in Iteeshree’s case, the child’s blood group was a huge challenge. We couldn’t proceed with the surgery without having the blood units ready.” The child’s mother, Madhabi, also has Bombay blood group, but she was pregnant, so they couldn’t use her blood. The hospital, thus, had to hunt for a donor.
 
 Within a couple of days,  , an NGO, traced Ghatshila resident Umakant Mandal, who had the same blood group. When requested, Umakant immediately agreed to travel to Howrah to help out the child. 
 
 Umakant told TOI: “When I got a call from Kolkata asking me for my blood, I went over the next day. I had to come because it was a question of life and death of a four-year-old.” 
 
 The 39-year-old, who runs Kamala X Ray Centre in Ghatshila, came to know he had this rare blood group in 1994, during a blood donation camp. Since then, he has travelled to several places, including Jamshedpur, Ranchi and Kolkata, to donate blood. “When I came to know about my blood group, I was upset and scared. But now I realize that I can save the lives of those who have this group,” he said. In fact, he keeps his mobile phone switched on 24x7 so that he does not miss out any distress call. 
 
 Iteeshree, after a few days of convalescence, has gone home, all set for a normal life. “Without his help and the initiative by Dr Chattopadhyay and Project Life Force, it would have been impossible to save my daughter,” said Sanjay.
 
 
