Indian actor   starrer 'Victoria & Abdul' has two nominations and   starrer   stands a chance to win in one category at the  , where fantasy drama 'The Shape of Water' has a maximum of 13 nods.

  
  
 'Victoria & Abdul', a movie about a unique bond between Queen Victoria and her Indian Muslim servant Abdul Karim, stands a chance to win in the Best Costume Design and Make-up and Hairstyling categories. In the film, Ali plays Abdul, with Hollywood veteran   as Queen Victoria.
 
 As for Anupam's 'The Big Sick', it is nominated for the Writing (Original Screenplay) honour for Pakistan-origin Kumail Nanjiani and Emily V. Gordon.
 
 'The Shape of Water' - a love story between a mute woman who works as a cleaning lady in a hidden, high-security government laboratory in 1962 Baltimore and a misunderstood aquatic monster -- is in the race to win an award in Best Picture, Best Director, Best Screenplay categories along with Sally Hawkins, Octavia Spencer and Richard Jenkins in contention for the statuette in Lead Actress, Supporting Actress and Supporting Actor categories respectively.
 
 It is also contending in technical categories like Cinematography, Costume Design, Film Editing, Music - Original Score, Production Design, Sound Editing, Sound Mixing and Writing (Original Screenplay).
 
 'The Shape of Water' is the tenth film in Oscar history to earn thirteen nominations, with the current record of fourteen nominations held by 'All about Eve' (1950), 'Titanic' (1997) and 'La La Land' (2016).
 
 Actress-comedian Tiffany Haddish and actor-director Andy Serkis, joined by Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences President John Bailey, announced the nominations on Tuesday via a global live stream.   star   was one of the celebrities who participated in pre-taped category introductions.
 
 'Newton', India's official entry for the Foreign Language Film category, had failed to make the cut to the shortlist early in the selection process. Films from Sweden, Chile, Lebanon, Russia and Hungary have made it to the final list.
 
 The 90th  , hosted by Jimmy Kimmel, will be held on March 4 at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. It will be aired in India live on March 5.
 
 
  
  
 
