NEW DELHIi: By the end of 2019, you can bypass the heavy traffic of  ,   and Press Enclave Road while travelling from Connaught Place to Saket, or Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium to   Phase-I. All this if you choose a   over a  . 

 
  
  
 
 The project was designed by former students of the School of Planning and Architecture who were appointed consultants. PWD has already started work on the cycle track between Satpula and  . The 12-member team will now submit an updated proposal to connect areas in east, south and central Delhi.
 
 “We will submit an extension of our cycle project to the Unified Traffic and   (Planning & Engineering) Centre. It has already cleared the Satpula project, which is the first step towards a cleaner and easier means of travel,” SPA student Gaurav Jangid said.
 
 The idea had its genesis in PWD’s 2021 Master Plan, which proposed a network of routes integrating arterial roads, eco-mobility corridors around nullahs, heritage routes, school precincts and recreational routes.
 
 The pathway, with 30 cycle stations and four major nodes (large intersections like Mayur Vihar, Moolchand, etc.), will allow commuters to access cycles. The idea is to achieve a modal shift from private to public modes of transportation and encourage the use of non-motorised transport.
 
 “In our research, we found that in east Delhi, a large number of cycle users are ‘captive users’ who regularly commute to areas in south Delhi on a regular basis,” Jangid said.
 
 During their research, the team found that pedestrian footfall was the highest in central and south Delhi, primarily “due to the presence of recreational spots such as India Gate, the Saket Mall or important historical sites such as Humayun’s Tomb, the Sunder nursery and others, which are within a km of the track”, Jangid said.
 
 On April 11, TOI had reported about the need for a bicycle master plan for the city. Experts from the World Research Institute had stressed on the need to integrate the master plan with the city’s public transport network. 
 
 One of the researchers, Luca Lo Re, had said that the development of a bike-sharing system could help connect residential areas with the urban transit system to solve the last-mile connectivity issue in the capital. He had suggested that, in Delhi, the stations for bike-sharing should be at the entrance or in proximity of public-transit stations (e.g. metro stations) — something proposed in the SPA report as well.
 
 
