BENGALURU: A day after the transport department notified new fares for app-based cab  , including Ola and Uber, many   on Thursday complained that the differential tariff based on vehicle cost was confusing. 

 Though the revised fare structure came into effect on Wednesday, aggregators hadn’t implemented it, rued commuters. They demanded that cab operators specify the tariff fixed for the vehicle category on the bill generated after every trip. S Subida, a regular taxi user from Shantinagar, said: “It’s not possible to remember the fare for each type of vehicle. And since the apps don’t have any information on the new rates, there’s no way of knowing whether we have been overcharged.”
 
 Transport commissioner B   said aggregators will have to mention the the minimum and maximum fares of four vehicle categories on their apps. “We have given them a few days to update the apps. We are examining how companies are implementing the new structure,” he said.
 
 Complaints of cab aggregators resorting to surge pricing and charging higher than normal also came to light. Lakshmi R, an Uber commuter, said: “It used to cost me Rs 232 to travel 13km, from   to Mallathahalli, but on Thursday the fare was Rs 332. The app showed surge pricing of 1.6X”. 
 
  
 However, an Uber spokesperson said there was no surge pricing and the amount was within the new tariff fixed by the government.
 
 Popular economical cab services like Ola Micro and Uber Go (vehicles priced under Rs 5 lakh) charge as low as Rs 6 per km during non-peak hours, but the revised fares for this category now range from Rs 11 to Rs 22 per km. Queries to Uber and Ola on the new structure remained unanswered.
 
 A transport department official said cab aggregators were charging more than Rs 12 per km for small cabs even though they were claiming to charge Rs 8 per km. “In addition to the distance-based fare, most cab aggregators were charging an amount based on the travel time. They won’t be able to do so under the new structure. Minimum fares will ensure a steady income for cab drivers,” said the official.
 
 From now onwards, aggregators will not be able to offer free/discounted rides to customers. “We will take action against cabs charging less than the minimum fare,” he added.
 
 Sources said the department is unlikely to take action against errant cab aggregators as the Karnataka On-demand Transportation Technology Aggregators Rules, 2016 are pending before the high court.
 
 The department on Wednesday came out with minimum and maximum fares by classifying cabs into four categories. For the first 4km, minimum fare was fixed at Rs 80 for Class A (luxury) taxis, Rs 68 for Class B taxis, Rs 52 for Class C and Rs 44 for the Class D (small) vehicles.
 
 Minimum tariff could promote ‘inspector raj’: Niti Aayog 
 
 Guidelines for app-based taxis uploaded on the ministry of road transport and highways (MORTH) website cite the Niti Aayog as recommending that there shouldn’t be a cap on surge pricing, just as there should be no lower floor price. “Market competition should decide the price levels. However, in order to protect consumers in emergency situations, there can be a clause to suspend or cap surge pricing during heavy rain, floods or any other emergency,” the guidelines say, adding: “The concept of fixing minimum tariff for taxis has not been supported by Niti Aayog on account of lack of precedent, legal considerations and problems associated with enforcement. They (Aayog) have observed that any law to fix minimum fare shall be struck down by court and it would also be difficult to prosecute/penalize any taxi operator charging less than the minimum fare. Enforcement of minimum tariff could promote ‘inspector raj’ and encourage corruption. Apprehensions that predatory tariffs could lead to creation of monopolies are unfounded as taxi services have no entry barriers”.
 
 A MORTH committee also recommended dynamic pricing should be allowed to effectively match demand and supply. 
 
