JAIPUR: The All India   Committee (AICC) meeting held in New Delhi to finalise party’s candidate for Bhilwara’s   constituency remained inconclusive on Wednesday.

 The party will wait for its key opponent   to make the first move before it finalises candidates for Mandalgarh assembly as well as Ajmer   seats that will go to bypolls on January 29. Congress has already declared its candidate for Alwar Lok Sabha seat—the third constituency that will go to bypolls.
 
 The AICC meeting, headed by party’s Rajasthan in-charge  , was attended by Congress state president  , leader of opposition Rameshwar Dudi, AICC secretary in-charges for the state and leaders from Bhilwara district, among others. The leaders primarily discussed probable candidates for Mandalgarh assembly seat as discussions over candidates for the Ajmer Lok Sabha seat had already been completed in Jaipur last week. For Alwar bypoll, the party has already declared ex-MP Karan Singh Yadav as its candidate.
 
 “We will be announcing our candidates in the next couple of days. Probable candidates for Mandalgarh seat were discussed today,” Congress state president Sachin Pilot told TOI after the AICC meeting in Delhi on Wednesday.
 
 Vivek Dhakar, ex-MLA Pradeep Kumar Singh, Mohan Malviya and  , the daughter of former chief minister late Shiv Charan Mathur, have been staking claims for the Mandalgarh seat.
 
 Vivek Dhakar, a Congress candidate from the same seat in 2013 elections but who lost to BJP’s Kirti Kumari by a margin of 18,540 votes, is believed to be front runner for the party ticket once again. Even as Dhakar is close to a top Congress leader in the state, there is said to be opposition against his candidature within the party’s district unit, said sources.
 
 Mandalgarh has been a stronghold of Congress, with BJP winning it only twice—in 1995 and 2013—since the first general elections in 1951. Former chief minister Shiv Charan Mathur represented the constituency six times between 1972 and 2003.
 
 For the Ajmer Lok Sabha seat, Congress is treading with extra caution since the constituency was earlier represented by Pilot. The party’s candidate would depend on who the BJP puts its stakes on here. If the BJP goes for a Jat candidate, the Congress will field a non-Jat candidate and vice-versa, said sources.
 
 Congress is considering former Kekri MLA Raghu Sharma and former zila pramukh Ramswaroop Chaudhary for the parliamentary seat, said sources.
 
 
