For prominent industrial players in  , the   with   Edappadi K   on January 22 culminated in contented smiles and long-pending assurances from the government. Their biggest concern was the state’s falling numbers in regards to investments and industrial growth. The government assured the delegates that it would sort out issues troubling them and take measures to attract new industrial investments to the state, paving way for employment generation and economic development.

 But, the core issue that was brushed under the carpet was corruption — which has created a negative perception about the state and put off prospective investors from looking at it for new ventures.
 
 Several months ago, when J Jayalallithaa was chief minister, a team of entrepreneurs planning to set up a component unit, had to run from pillar to post to get their land allotment from state-owned Sipcot. Finally, they were asked to meet the industries’ minister, which they did and discussed and completed "all formalities". A few months passed, but there was no sign of the allotment letter. On enquiring, they were asked to meet the industries’ minister. They were told that a new minister had taken charge and was waiting to meet them to ‘finalise allotment’. "The team was disgusted. When qualified bureaucrats themselves get into such facilitating acts, one could realise to what extent TN has gone down," lamented a state government official, on condition of anonymity. 
  
 
 The ongoing MGR centenary celebration meetings organised in each district are proving to be a headache for the industry, as local ministers are forcing them to foot the cost of the functions — that run into crores of rupees. Or else, they are warned, to face the consequences. "The Kancheepuram collectorate received several complaints of similar nature from the Oragadam manufacturing belt, and the IT corridor, more than a month ago. We were also asked to fork out large sums to partymen for observing Amma’s first death anniversary," complained an administrative head of a large IT service provider.
 
 Even though the delegation’s decision to avoid discussing the issue of corruption with the CM left many baffled, some of them say it was a pertinent decision, especially when they had the government’s attention. "Now that they are ready to address all our issues and improve the investment climate, we thought it may not be the right thing to raise, especially when they assured us to solve even issues concerning individual companies. A beginning has been made and it was agreed to collectively meet on a regular basis. We should give them time to set the house in order," said a member of the industry delegation. 
 
 "We should appreciate that the chief minister himself came forward to connect with the industry and solve all issues and the discussions focused on infrastructure, solid waste management and maintenance of water bodies. We hope the passing of the Business Facilitation Act will take care of a large number of issues concerning greenfield projects and we have sought a solution for taking care of issues faced by existing brownfield projects," said P Ravichandran, president of CII Tamil Nadu and Danfoss Industries.
 
 "The Business Facilitation Act has come into place and the single window portal facilitates acceptance and distribution of applications to the respective competent authorities without the need for the applicants to physically visit the offices. With time bound approval system in place and everything facilitated online, it will usher in a new era for industrial investment," said a state government official, on condition of anonymity.
 
 A Chennai-based senior official with a global consultancy firm sums it up better. "Tamil Nadu as an investment destination has lagged behind over the past few years, unlike Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka or even Kerala. More than the issue of corruption, it was the question mark over approachability. Approaching and meeting the relevant people was an issue faced by the industry here. When approachability is itself shrouded, industry is forced to look at different options to get things done. It was always easier to meet the chief ministers of other states and only here it is celebrated," he added.
 
 
