PATNA: A pall of gloom descended on RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s family as his only sister   (73) died of “shock” on Sunday, a day after her brother was sentenced to three-and-a-half years in jail in a fodder scam case.

 Lalu’s wife and former state chief minister  , who rushed to Gangotri’s residence at the Veterinary College near airport after hearing about her sudden death, said her only ‘nanad’ (sister-in-law) had been regularly praying for the acquittal of Laluji in the fodder scam cases.
 
 “Even on Sunday, she prayed to different gods and goddesses for early release of her brother. When she learnt that her brother was sentenced to jail for a long period, she was devastated. She died because of the shock,” a sobbing Rabri told reporters at Gangotri’s house.
 
 Gangotri was four years elder to Lalu, who turned 69 in June last.
 
 Soon after hearing about their aunt’s death, Lalu’s sons Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Tej Pratap also rushed to Gangotri’s residence and paid floral tributes to her.
 
 Married to late Jagdhari Choudhary, a resident of Chakrapan village in   district, Gangotri was staying with her son Rudal Yadav in his quarter at the Veterinary College here. RJD sources said she would be cremated at her native village in Gopalganj district on Monday. However, Lalu will not be able to attend her funeral because of his incarceration in the Birsa Munda Central Jail at Hotwar in Ranchi (Jharkhand).
 
 RJD MLA Bhola Yadav said the family communicated the news of Gangotri’s death to Lalu through the prison authorities in Ranchi. “But, Lalu will not be able to attend his sister’s funeral because of imprisonment,” Bhola said, adding, “So far, Lalu’s lawyer has not sought parole to attend the funeral.” 
 
 Lalu was sentenced to three and a half years in jail and fined Rs10 lakh by a special   court in a fodder scam case related to the fraudulent withdrawal of Rs89.27 lakh from the Deoghar treasury 21 years ago.
 
 Besides the Lalu family members, hundreds of RJD leaders and workers went to Gangotri’s residence and paid floral tributes to her. 
 
 
