If there is one thing that people don't know about Divyanka Tripathi and  's love story, it is that they met immediately after their individual break-ups, and soon fell for each other. "I think we just happened to meet at the right time and things fell in place", says Vivek, as he tells us about how he met Divyanka and when he couldn't even recognise her on the posters of her popular show, ' ' ( ). We meet this TV power couple while they are in Delhi to attend a wedding, and Divyanka tells us that Vivek is guiding her about all things Delhi. "He used to come from Chandigarh to Delhi for modeling assignments in the beginning of his career. He was so dedicated that he used to spend more on travelling than he used to earn. I have only come here for work, and the little that I know about Delhi is through my show 'YHM'. I know about the popular Hanuman temple with the Metro line on front of it, which is an iconic shot often used in our show, and I would actually want to visit that place once. Apart from that, I know about the Malai Mandir. Since my character in the show is from a south Indian family, the temple is often mentioned as the place the family visits," says Divyanka.

  
  
 
 Ever since they won the dance reality show '  8', Divyanka and Vivek are often asked when are they coming back on screen as a couple, but it's not happening anytime soon, they say. Given their popularity on TV, it is no wonder that the two have been getting many offers, but they are clear that "unless there is a good script or a different show concept they won't take it up". "Recently, we were offered a show. But since I am already a part of a daily soap, doing another one would have been really tough," says Divyanka. Vivek adds that the decision to be a part of 'Nach Baliye', which was offered to them soon after their marriage (in July, 2016), was a tough one. "When you are working as a couple in a reality show, there is bound to be a difference of opinion. We had heard so many stories of couples breaking up after doing reality shows that we were dreading being a part of one. There is immense pressure and so much to deal with, but in our case, it helped us discover and know each other better," says Vivek.
 
  
  
 
  
  Vivek Dahiya and   in Delhi
 
  The other news that fans are eagerly waiting for is Divyanka's debut in films. Her recent statement that she would want to work with   only added fuel to rumours of her doing a film soon. "That was a surprise for me also," says Vivek with a laugh, adding that while he has been trying to persuade Divyanka to work in films, she has always been hesitant. "And then one day she gives a statement that she would want to work with Akshay Kumar! I think that is only because she knows Akshay is my favourite actor and if she would do a film with him, I will get to meet him. But I can meet him anyway!" says Vivek. On a serious note, Divyanka adds that her doing a film would depend on a lot of factors, like the script and who is directing it. "I don't have any Bollywood favourites who I could have named when I was asked who I would want to work with. I said Akshay Kumar as I love the kind of movies that he has been doing. They are on relevant topics and I can relate to his films. Other than him, I like a few actresses.   ji was my favourite, and I like Madhuri Dixit and Deepika Padukone a lot", says Divyanka.
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
