Indore: A woman on Tuesday approached district collector with a complaint of open defecation practice in her village, further raising questions on the authorities concerned for receiving ‘ODF tag’, two years ago.

 Indore is second district of the country to receive ODF tag, after Nadia district of West Bengal. It’s first district in state to become open defecation free.
 
 The complainant, Anita Kushwaha, apprised the collector Nishant Warwade of the fact that all the houses in her village Machala Talai do not have toilets.
 
 “Many houses in the village are yet to have facility of toilet. In absence of public toilets in the village even students, who come from far-flung areas to the village for study, are forced to defecate in open on their way to school or home,” alleged the complainant.
 
 While alleging corruption in construction of toilets with the government aid, Kushwaha urged the collector to take appropriate action including construction of a public toilet in the village to ensure no defecation in open.
 
 To this, the collector assured the complainant for looking into the matter to decide further course of action.
 
  Later, some women reached outside the collector’s room, and staged a protest to press their demand of toilets construction in their locality. “We all are residents of Sirpur Kankad area. In an encroachment removal drive carried out by IMC a few days ago, our structures including, toilets were razed. We have somehow managed to live at the place available with us but we need toilet,” one of the protesters Shama Shubhan said.
 
 SDM Shalini Shrivastava received their application and promised for taking appropriate action in the matter. During the weekly public hearing, members of Gau Raksha Sangthan approached the collector to provide them jobs in the government cowsheds.
 
 “We are certified cattle-rearer and require jobs as promised by the then chief minister, Digvijaya Singh. After passing around 15 years, we are still waiting to get employment,” they said adding to launch a protest against state government for not paying heed towards their demand.
 
 
