GURUGRAM: The   has transferred around Rs 500 crore to the newly constituted Gurgaon Metropolitan Development Authority and is considering giving another Rs 170 crore to the National Highways Authority of India, prompting questions if the civic body will soon be staring at a funds crunch to carry out development work in its own area.

 The corporation, which has allotted only 40% of its funds to carry out development work in the city, could also give another Rs 100 crore for the proposed shifting of the Kherki Daula toll plaza, sources said. The  , whose job description is primarily development, is to be essentially funded by   (external development charges) that the state collects from realtors. As of November 2017, Haryana’s EDC dues stood at around Rs 17,400 crore. 
 
 Sources said that with a total budget of Rs 1,425 crore, the   had earmarked Rs 836 crore for development work, but eventually spent only Rs 105 crore. Another Rs 225 crore was sanctioned for various projects but not disbursed, the sources said.
 
 
  
 
 According to the sources, the funds that the corporation had transferred or was mulling to do so to the state and central agencies should have been ideally provided by the Haryana government and the civic body should have channeled the unused funds for projects in the city limits. In the past four decades, Gurgaon has expanded to cover 115 sectors developed by the Haryana Urban Development Authority (Huda). The corporation covers an area of 231sqkm, while the GMDA jurisdiction extends up to 675sqkm, including the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway. A senior official pointed out that the chief minister had earlier said the GMDA would get funds from the state’s corpus and other sources such as annual cess on property tax, liquor and stamp duty. The GMDA would also get a portion of the external development charges, the official said. “The transfer of funds from the MCG will only increase the corporation’s financial burden,” the official said.
 
 In 2010, the corporation had given a loan of Rs 150 crore to the Faridabad municipal corporation at the instance of the state government. The MCG is yet to recover the amount. Asked about the transfer of funds, principal secretary (urban local bodies) Anand Mohan Sharan said the corporation was just helping the GMDA carry out development work. On giving funds to the NHAI, Sharan said the money would be used for “common projects” like underpasses and flyovers. “As far as the loan given to MCF is concerned, I don't think it is coming back in the near future" he added.
 
 
