LUDHIANA: With the day temperature on Friday reaching 43.4 °C, Ludhiana witnessed its   of the ongoing summer season. The bad news the for residents battling with hot weather conditions is that the Met department has predicted dry weather in the next few days. So, it’s better to keep the umbrellas and sunglasses handy as the day temperature will increase in the coming days.

 As per Met department officials, the day temperature in the city on Friday was recorded at 43.4 °C, which is four degrees more than normal and the highest in the ongoing summer season. Among the major cities of Punjab, Patiala was hottest on Friday and the day temperature was recorded there at 43.6 °C whereas Amritsar witnessed day temperature at 43°C.
 
 The day temperature in Ludhiana was, however, lower than the highest recorded for May last year which was 44 °C on May 27. On Friday, the night temperature in Ludhiana was on the lower side and was recorded at 22.9 °C, which is a degree less than normal.
 
 As the city witnessed the highest day temperature this summer season, the Met department officials have bad news for the residents. According to their forecast, there is no immediate respite from the heat wave at least in the next two days.
 
 A Met official in Chandigarh department said that the weather is likely to remain clear till Sunday. However, on Monday, the sky will be partly cloudy and there is a possibility of thunder lightning. The Met department forecast also predicts possibility of rain, thunderstorm and dust storm next Tuesday.
 
 The Met department website, meanwhile, predicts rise in day temperature to nearly 44 °C on Saturday and the same might remain constant on Sunday. The Met predicts night temperature to gradually rise to 26 °C till next Wednesday.
 
 Meanwhile, the residents are reeling under severe heat and are finding ways to remain indoors. “It’s extremely hot. One cannot move out in such weather. So, I prefer to stay indoors till evening,” said Harminder Singh, a trader of BRS Nagar.
 
 Singh said he is drinking fluids to remain cool. “My mother prepares quality lemon drinks with desi flavor. I also have lassi in the afternoon,” he said.
 
 Children, meanwhile, are finding the hot weather irritating especially because it restrains them from playing outdoor. “Normally I would go out with my friends to the parks in the afternoon. But it is so hot and humid these days. I prefer watching movies at home instead of venturing out,” said Rahul Jain, a 10-year-old student from Civil Lines.
 
 
 
