

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Govind Gaikwad belonged to the   community; he believed to have performed the last rites of Chhatrapati Sambhaji, son of   icon Chhatrapati Shivaji.
 
 Aurangzeb killed Sambhaji and none dared to perform his last rites fearing the Mughal king's wrath.
 
 
 
 
 Tension has simmered since the last few years with right-wingers running a campaign that Sambhaji's rites were performed by Marathas and not a Mahar. 
 
 
  A shed & information board near Gaikwad's tombstone vandalised in village Vadhu Budruk 
 
 
  Dalits file cases against Marathas 
 
 
  Netas of both communities compromise. Dalits to withdraw cases, Marathas to reinstate board near Gaikwad's samadhi
 
 
 
 
 
  Conference organised at Shaniwar Wada by dalit outfits and Maratha body Sambhaji Brigade that moots an alliance of dalits, Marathas, Muslims.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In the battle between Peshwas and the British at Koregaon on river Bhima's banks on January 1, 1818, Mahars — who saw Peshwas as oppressors — fought for the British, who built an obelisk as a memorial. Annual celebrations have been held here after B R Ambedkar's visit in 1927.
 
 
 
 
 Two versions to the story. 
 
 Dalits and a section of Marathas see the battle as the end of "Brahmanical oppression". The Hindu-right sees it as the end of Hindu rule.
 
 Jan 1, 2018: dalits gather for 200th anniversary celebration of Koregaon-Bhima battle.
 
 A few villagers call a bandh. Stone-pelting starts, followed by arson. One Maratha dies.
 
 
 
 
 
  Dalit leader Prakash Ambedkar calls for bandh to protest attack on dalits, names Sambhaji Bhide (84) and Milind Ekbote (56) as instigators. Bhide had led the stir against movie Jodha Akbar, Ekbote has been a BJP/   corporator FIR lodged against the two on January 3.
 
 
  Massive protests by dalits turn violent. 30 cops injured. City brought to a halt.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In 1902, Kolhapur's ruler and Shivaji's descendant, Shahu Maharaj, offered dalits reservation in education and service.
 
 A first of its kind, this was an enduring symbol of dalit-Maratha amity.
 
 
 
 
 Dalits and Marathas have grown apart over the last few decades with growing right-wing presence. Shiv Sena and BJP have banked on Maratha netas brought in from Sharad Pawar's NCP and Congress.
 
 
  Shiv Sena MLA Rajesh Kshirsagar leads a mob opposing bandh.
 
 
 
 
 Marathwada region's main city has significant dalit and Muslim populations. Shiv Sena made inroads after violence over the re-naming of Marathwada University after Dr B R Ambedkar.
 
 The Maratha Seva Sangh and its youth wing Sambhaji Brigade have been trying to prop up a new alliance comprising dalits, Marathas and Muslims. The All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul Muslimee has a strong base in the city.
 
 
 
 
 Shiv Sena netas have built their political fortunes rabblerousing against Muslims and dalits here.
 
 
  Internet suspended 
 
 A few Maratha groups support the bandh, as do the Muslims.
 
 
 
 
 Once known as the birthplace of Marathi theatre; Sangli today is a divided town. Sambhaji Bhide's outfit has deep roots here and enjoys support of all parties.
 
 Hindu-Muslim tensions are frequent, especially in neighbouring town of Miraj, with substantial minority population.
 
 
  Bhide backers organise march, demand withdrawal of case against Bhide.
 
 
 
 
 The RSS blamed "breaking India brigade" for the   violence, claiming it wants to divide Hindu society. But so far, the Nagpur-based body has not made clear its stand on Bhima Koregaon. Former RSS sanghchalak M S Golwalkar had criticised celebrations stating that the battle must not be glorified as after all it was defeat of indigenous rulers.
 
