Nagpur: The Rs1,560 crore Nag river pollution abatement project has moved a step closer to realization with Union finance ministry putting it on top priority list for funding by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). A meeting in this regard was held last week which was chaired by Union water resources minister Nitin Gadkari and attended by JICA’s India head. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) aims to make Nag and Pili rivers pollution-free under this project by treating the sewage flowing into them. NMC’s share in this project is 15% while Centre will provide the remaining funds by taking a soft loan from JICA. Mohammed Israil of NMC’s project department said, “JICA officials said they would send a team to Nagpur for a second visit in 2 to 3 months. We requested them to plan the visit early (in a month) as the project had already been delayed. Let’s see whether they agree to our request.” After the visit, JICA will submit a report to the government of Japan, which will then approve the loan. “NMC has complied with all the requirements of Union government and JICA. We have submitted a certificate from the state government too. Now JICA has to take the required steps,” Israil further said. The pollution abatement project is an ambitious one. All the inlets of sewage into Nag and Pili rivers will be tapped by laying two interceptor pipelines below the riverbeds. Major quantum of sewage will be transported to Bhandewadi for treatment. Three small sewage treatment plants (STPs) will come up on Nag river. The one at Shankar Nagar will have a capacity of 5 million litres per day (MLD), near Sangam at Yashwant stadium (40 MLD) and at St Xavier’s School (3 MLD). A 5 MLD STP has already been constructed at Mokshadham. Two small STPs will be constructed on Pili river at Martin Nagar with a capacity of 37 MLD and Wanjra 6 MLD by Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) apart from the one almost nearing completion at Mankapur. Sewage from some inlets will be treated at these STPs and treated sewage will be released in the two rivers. A series of check dams will be constructed on the two rivers for continuous flow. All these works will cost Rs1,298 crore while beautification and riverfront development works costing Rs261 crore will be taken up later.