BENGALURU: Very soon,   could arrange for pick-ups from your doorstep. With an eye on drawing commuters to its buses and boost its sagging revenue, the state-run transport utility is now planning to tie up with startups that offer app-based bike, cycle and autorickshaw services. 

 Under the proposed plan, a commuter can use any of these modes to reach the nearest bus terminus from home or workplace.
 
  Apart from providing commuters first and last-mile connectivity, BMTC will also offer parking space at bus terminals for these firms. 
 
  "Our buses cannot enter most narrow streets and many people, particularly techies, don't want to spend time walking to the nearest bus stop, particularly during peak hours. Several startups are now offering solutions to address these issues," said a senior BMTC official. 
 
  BMTC managing director   confirmed that they are in talks with several startups to ensure first and last-mile connectivity for commuters. However, he refused to divulge more details about the proposed plan. 
 
   , founder of Bykerr, an app which connects commuters with public transport, said: "We are mainly offering bike-pooling to provide first and last-mile connectivity for commuters to the nearest Metro station and BMTC bus terminus." 
 
  "Unlike Ola and Uber cabs, which ply from point A to Point B, we offer short-distance connectivity to nearest modes of public transport. The idea is to ensure public transport accessibility. The app can also be used to take autorickshaws and we will also launch cycles," he pointed out. 
 
  Bykerr operates in Byappanahalli, S V Road and   and will extend services across the city. "We have had discussions with BMTC officials and they were positive about this particular model," said Mallick. BMRCL has already tied up with several startups like  , Green Wheel Ride and ValetEZ (two-wheeler rentals), Constapark (parking aggregator) and Quick Ride (car-pooling) to ensure last-mile connectivity. 
 
 Vivekananda Hallekere, CEO and co-founder of Metro Bikes, said: "In some interior stretches, BMTC doesn't operate buses. In such scenarios, people can rent our bikes from their neighbourhood to reach the nearest bus terminus. We are partnering with several residential associations and parking-space owners to park our vehicles so that they are available for users. We also allow users to keep bikes at night." 
 
 Currently, Metro Bikes operate at 10 Metro stations. This will be extended to 36 stations from Friday.
 
 "The idea is good, but we may have to wait and see how many bus passengers can afford to pay for the transit service to the nearest bus terminus and also the fare for the entire bus journey. Travelling in private vehicles might work out cheaper for many," said an expert on urban mobility.
 
 BMTC's passenger revenue has been falling over the past few years, mainly due to tough competition from cab aggregators.
 
 
