Panaji: A massive hill cutting for widening of a road leading from Socorro church to Carrem ward has kicked up much dust, with activists alleging that the work is being carried out without proper approvals from authorities. 
 
 The excavation with heavy earth moving machinery was initiated on February 20, but there was no display board indicating the list of approvals for the project, as required under the rules, activists alleged. 
  
 Local residents and activists gathered at the site, locally called Bobd (tunnel) to oppose the excavation and also complained to the flying squad. The road stretches up the slope to a small tunnel, spanning about 100m, cut between steep hills. 
  
 While the existing road has a four-metre width, after a week the hill’s eastern side has been dug to create more than five metres space, additionally. 
  
 “Trees have been cleared without permission from the forest department,” an activist said. 
  
 A flying squad comprising a draftsman, a field surveyor and constable conducted inspection on the first day and submitted a report that no hill cutting was carried out. 
  
 “We asked the flying squad to visit the site the next day after excavation had progressed to Bobd, but they ignored our pleas,” an activist said. 
  
 Porvorim United Citizens Forum has complained to various authorities that the hill cutting is in gross violation of Section 17 (A) of Town and Country Planning (TCP) Act, 1974. 
  
 The TCP has issued approval to the Socorro panchayat to allow the hill cutting and the local body in turn has issued NOC to the contractor, a forum member said. But the TCP letter only refers to a circular of chief town planner dated August 25, 2011, wherein PWD’s engineering works for roads involving cutting or filling will not need TCP’s additional permission, a forum member said. 
  
 “Neither the TCP letter nor the panchayat NOC mentions survey numbers of the site, as mentioned by flying squad as 33/1 and 34/1, making the permission dubious,” the member said. 
  
 The work started on the same dayafter panchayat issued NOC. “When did the PWD prepare the contour survey?” the forum member questioned. The flying squad officials were not available for comment. 
  
  
