MADURAI: Ramanathapuram district, which has been identified as one of the 115 most backward districts in the country, is planning to achieve the goals of development by roping in college students and providing them with internships with the district administration, during which they would have to create awareness among the public.

 Speaking to TOI, Ramanathapuram collector   said that they were striving to reach the goals and overcome the image of being a backward district. Many strides were being made in the  , where the construction of individual toilets was edging towards the 100% mark.
 
 “Constructing toilets is easy, but making the people use them is the problem, this is where we are seeking the help of college administrations to make the students work with the district administration, to create awareness,” he said. The colleges would have the responsibility of identifying the villages and also designating the number of students, who would have to work for five hours per day, for a period of 20 days, for their internship.
 
 A meeting with the college administrations to this effect was held on Friday and the heads of the institutions said that they would be ready to start the programme by the last week of June, with the deadline for the internship programme being July 31, 2018. Apart from open defecation free (ODF), the students would also have to create awareness on health and hygiene, conservation of water and solid waste management. The best performing individuals and colleges would be awarded apart from the internship certificate the district administration provides them.
 
 The district administration is also gearing up to develop Rameswaram as an outstanding tourist destination and works are being carried out to the tune of Rs 15.86 crore under the central government’s Swadesh Dharshan scheme. It will include making Rameswaram plastic-free. Additional tourism developmental activities are being carried out in Dhanushkodi, Kunthukal, Arichalmunai and Muhundarayar Chathiram.
 
 Also, additional toilets, changing rooms and preventing pilgrims from discarding their clothes on the beach are some of the initiatives. As tariff structures are important for a tourist destination, autos, taxis and lodging tariffs are to be regularised under the programme. A decision on the same would be taken up after discussions with the stakeholders and the fixed prices would be displayed in important spots for the benefit of the pilgrims and tourists, the collector added.
 
 
