CHENNAI: As many as 2,589 roads, which were damaged due to pipeline and underground cable laying work executed by Metrowater, electricity board and other agencies, will receive a fresh coat of tar after Greater Chennai Corporation sanctioned Rs 230.52 crore for their restoration.

 Work will be taken up using grants secured from   (TURIF). According to corporation officials,   had sanctioned Rs 238.49 crore to undertake restoration work on 2,902   and 15   (BRR). “We have issued work orders for 2,574 interior roads and 15 BRR at a cost of Rs 207.30 crore,” a senior official said.
 
 The corporation has also sanctioned Rs 23.22 crore to redevelop   along 23 BRR as prescribed under the non-motorised transport policy adopted by the civic body. “These (footpaths) will be redeveloped as wider footpaths similar to the ones found in Egmore,” the official added. The corporation would also be appointing a third party consultant at a cost of Rs 4.17 crore in order to supervise the   restoration work.
 
 This is the first time since the floods in 2015 that the corporation is undertaking a road renovation project on this scale. “These roads have been damaged for a long time because Metrowater failed to issue an NOC after their pipeline work was completed. We have also taken up a set of interior roads which have not been relaid for the past several years,” the senior official said.
 
 The BRRs to be renovated are predominantly in the northern parts of the city. “Stretches like Kadappa Main Road and Soorapet Main Road in Manali and   zones require a complete overhaul,” said an official.
 
 The grant from TURIF was a welcome relief for the corporation, especially after Metrowater expressed its inability to deposit the “high road cut charges” demanded by the corporation. “TURIF decided to help on the advice of the state government,” a senior official said.
 
 Tenders for the project were called for in October 2017 and the bids were opened on December 27, 2017. However, work orders could only be issued last month as scrutiny was required on the bids. “In the 93 packages on which tenders were invited, all the bids exceeded our project estimate by at least 10% to 12%,” said an official. Sources among the corporation’s road contractors told TOI that their bids reflected market value. “Price of raw material, labour charges and transportation costs have all increased since these estimates were prepared,” said a source.
 
 After discussions, the corporation successfully persuaded contractors to lower their tender value. “The revised estimates are only cheaper than the current market cost by 3%-6%,” said an official.
 
 
