KOLKATA: While Kolkatans streamed into   restaurants on New Year’s Eve, eateries across rest of the city witnessed a marginal dip in footfall. Contrary to expectations, attendance dropped by 1%-2% despite a 13% drop in tax, which was supposed to attract a bigger crowd. Wider use of home delivery apps and proliferation of restaurants might have led to the sudden drop in the number of patrons, felt the Hotel and Restaurants’ Association of Eastern India ( ).

 On Christmas Eve, city restaurants had seen an encouraging 20% rise in footfall, said Pranav Singh, secretary, HRAEI. “We had expected a similar growth on December 31, but barring Park Street, the crowd didn’t swell appreciably. In fact, it went down marginally across restaurants in Esplanade, Sarat Bose Road,   and VIP Road. The reason could be an urge to stay at home to avoid the maddening rush on December 31. Home delivery apps are now widely used.   parties, too, have caught up in a major way,” said Singh.
 
 The drop in footfall has been sharper in the interim period between Christmas and New Year Eve, he added. “Usually, the attendance remains consistently high through the week. But this time, the crowd had thinned considerably. It did pick up on December 31 but we had expected a bigger crowd,” he said. An owner of an EM Bypass restaurant said queues at the eatery got shorter by late evening. “Till last year, we would have a long queue till midnight. But it didn’t happen this time,” he said.
 
 At Park Street, the scene remained unchanged, though. Most restaurants recorded a marginal rise in attendance. “Compared to last two years, the crowd was bigger throughout the day. It was around 5% more. Drop in GST could be a reason, apart from the fact that security arrangement was perfect. It encouraged more people to visit Park Street rather than avoid it due to the rush,” said  , owner of Oasis bar and restaurant on Park Street.
 
 Nitin Kothari, owner of Mocambo and Peter Cat, agreed. “The crowd was bigger and better security was certainly a reason. Lower GST was obviously a big draw, too. I would not put a figure to the rise in footfall, but it was noticeable,” said Kothari. 
 
 Swelling of crowd on Park Street contributed to the relatively thinner crowd elsewhere, felt Singh. “Over the last few years, many would avoid Park Street restaurants due to the rush. But it has changed with security getting tighter over the last two years. So, a larger percentage of those who drop in at Park Street for a stroll down the road have visited restaurants for a meal. Also, it can’t be denied that Park Street has its own pull during the Yuletide period. The government, too, has been taking a lot of initiative to promote Park Street during the festival with more lights and a carnival,” he said.
 
 But there were exceptions, too. At Amber on Waterloo Street, the crowd was appreciably bigger than the last few years, according to owner Sanjay Khullar. “Last year, we felt the demonetization pinch. But this time, the footfall has been higher than even what we had in 2015. The queues were longer on New Year’s Eve than on Christmas,” said Khullar.
 
 
