MANDSAUR: "Saheb, how will I repay a loan of Rs 40,000,"   Dhangar, father of a slain farmer  , asked   district collector after he was handed over documents to show Rs 1 crore had been transferred to his newly opened account. 

 Surprised by the question, collector O P Shrivastava explained to Mangilal that Rs 1 crore was much higher that Rs 40,000. "Why do you worry? You can pay the loan in a jiffy," the collector explained.
 
 
  
 
 Mangilal's plight shows the ignorance among families of six farmers killed in 2017 agitation in Mandsaur, about how to handle the huge sum they received as compensation. This prompted district administration to form teams to offer consultation to the families. "We explained them the banking procedures and opened accounts of those who did not have one," Srivastava told TOI. 
 
 
 
 
 Soon after chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced the unprecedented compensation to the families in June last year, his secretariat followed up the procedures enabling   to the bank accounts. The general administration department worked on a war footing and the money was transferred from local treasury.
 
 “We told the families that future of the minor children of the deceased should be ensured by putting a portion of money in fixed deposits. They all agreed,” the collector recalled, adding bankers were asked to give details of options available to the families.
 
 Many of the beneficiaries initially wished to withdraw large amounts, but they were counselled about the options by which they could withdraw the interest monthly. Laxminarayan Patidar, father-in-law of Kanhaiyalal Patidar of Chillod Piplia, said, “I decided not to withdraw any money. Let the money grow. I want to secure future of my daughter’s children.”
 
 But some could not wait. Satyanarayan’s family invested heavily in a house and purchased new farmland and farm appliances, besides paying off their dues. Satyanarayan was unmarried, thus his brothers distributed the money and put Rs 5 lakh in a fixed deposit for their elderly mother.
 
 
