NEW DELHI: Former world No. 1   on Thursday added close friend Radek Stepanek to his coaching team, a move that   welcomed with open arms. Becker, who taught Djokovic for three years, said Stepanek is a great addition to Djokovic's coaching staff and that he will benefit tremendously from both him and Andre Agassi.

 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 "The walking wounded of the last two Grand Slams are limping back into the circuit at the 2018 Australian Open. Cannot say much about the others, but I am watching Novak Djokovic right now, and he seems in pretty good shape. He will feel the elbow when he is in the heat of battle, but he is fit, rested and raring to go," Becker wrote in his column for TOI.
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 "Novak Djokovic has a new coach in Radek Stepanek, his mate for many years and also a frequent hitting partner. It's a great addition to his team and the former champion will benefit from having both Stepanek and Andre Agassi on his team.
 
 "The only way to find out what is needed to achieve peak fitness is by getting back on the circuit. Djokovic has a tough first round versus  , and if he gets past that he will face an even tougher opponent in  .
 
 Becker added that this edition of the Australian Open will be a closely-contested one with the likes of Stan Wawrinka and Nick Kyrgios returning into the mix.
 
 "The others who are coming back include former champion   while Andy Murray has just had a surgery two days ago and continues to be out of action. Under such circumstances, there is a lot of excitement about the prospects of Nick Kyrgios, the local favourite. He has been looking good over the past few months and had a good run-up to Melbourne by winning in Brisbane. There has never been any doubt about Kyrgios’ talent, the question was always about motivation and temperament. Kyrgios seems to be ready now. The other youngsters, Dominic Thiem and Alexander Zverev, are not too far off either, so there are quite a few youngsters to watch out for," he wrote.
 
 Becker however insisted that watching Roger Federer defend his Australian Open crown will draw eyeballs. Becker said Federer seems to be playing as well as he was 10 years ago and it will be quite something if Federer, at 36, goes on to defend the title.
 
 "All eyes however are on the youngest of them all - Roger Federer! He is playing as well as he was a decade ago, and is looking fresh and enthusiastic. It would be really unbelievable if he defends his title, but after last year, when he and Rafael Nadal shared the Grand Slam spoils, who is to stop us from believing in fairy tales," he wrote.
 
