CHENNAI: The 10th edition of the international defence expo will be held near Mahabalipuram from April 11 to 14, said defence minister   while inaugurating a two-day meet aimed at forging a partnership between defence and industry in Chennai on Thursday. 

 The defence expo, held once in two years, will be held this year along the East Coast Road at  , home to the Nityakalyana Perumal temple administered by the ASI.
 
 This is the second defence expo to be held outside Delhi. The first one, the ninth edition, was held at Goa in 2016 when   was defence minister. More than 80 countries are expected to participate in this year's expo. 
 
  "I thank the   government for having allocated the land along the East Coast, famous for conquerors of the Cholas," she said. No permanent structure would be put up on the land. Since the site is along the coast, many naval companies from across the globe are expected to participate. Suppliers to all the three forces would put up stalls at the exhibition, she added.
 
 Sitharaman said though the defence ministry has been accused of having delayed in holding the expo, the change of guard in the ministry was the only reason for it. The Chennai expo would be a great opportunity for small and medium scale industries to showcase their products, she said, adding that MSME entrepreneurs would be given discounts to showcase their products.
 
 In the ninth edition of   held in March 2016 at Goa, 232 foreign companies from 32 countries participated. There were 15 country pavilions. There was a growth of 12.64% in terms of space booking at the expo in Goa.
 
 The two-day meet was aimed at making entrepreneurs aware of the opportunities available to supply components to manufacturers of defence equipment, she said. There are about 100 MSMEs from Tamil Nadu which are contributing to the defence ministry and Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). It is one of the major markets for the MSMEs. By attracting more MSMEs into the sector, valuable foreign exchange could be saved, the minister said.
 
 The meeting highlighted the ease with which MSMEs can now supply products to the manufacturers of defence equipment. "Under Make 2, 148 items have been de-reserved from the list. A separate defence investors' cell has been created for the entrepreneurs to approach the ministry with new ideas and products," said defence production secretary  .
 
 At present, around 20% of the components used in defence equipment are from MSMEs and these can be increased and by 2020, the total procurement from MSMEs would be around Rs 10,000 crore, he said.
 
 
