The state is yet to formulate strict guidelines for the functioning of autism  . Following a complaint from a parent’s forum, Together We Can, the Kerala state commission for protection of child rights (KSCPCR) had in a report sought the state health and social justice department’s intervention in bringing minimum standards to therapy centres.

 
 “We have been running from pillar to post to make officials understand that there is no regulation in the functioning of the therapy centres. Though everybody acknowledges the loophole, there has been no action from the state and hence we have filed a public interest litigation in the Kerala high court,” said Seema Lal, founder, Together We Can.
 
 At a recent meeting in Thiruvananthapuram, the KSCPCR called on the   to ensure minimum standards for centres offering therapy to children and ensure presence of parent/support person during the therapy sessions.
 
 The meeting attended by Ummuselma C, joint director (health), directorate of urban affairs and V S Santosh, under-secretary to government, decided to ask the health department to ensure that therapy centres are included in the newly-approved Clinical Establishments Act According to the KSCPCR report, the local self-government department should frame rules for these therapy centres. At the time of registration, certain standards need to be verified in terms of infrastructure and the qualification of the persons attending to the children. 
 
 There must be provision to ensure that parents/support person to be present during therapy. It also sought to look into reasons why block resource centres (BRC) refuses occupational therapy to children other than those who go to government schools.
 
 “We have been petitioning the state governments and the Centre, seeking a monitoring mechanism for institutions dealing with care or therapy for special children. There’s no budgetary allocation and hence nobody wants to consider it. There’s a lot of hatred and abuse in many of these institutions as there are no trained or competent staff. With no monitoring mechanisms, it is a free for all,” said Muralidharan V, convener, National Platform for  
 
 
