JAIPUR: Police have charged Pehlu Khan, who was lynched by cow vigilantes in Alwar last year, and two others who were accompanying him on the day with  . 

 Police filed the second chargesheet in the murder case in Behror court after Khan's family failed to provide the transit permit required for transporting cattle from one state to another. The chargesheet has been filed under several sections of the Rajasthan Bovine Animal (Prohibition of Slaughter and Regulation of Temporary Migration or Export) Act, 1995 and Rules, 1995 at the court on January 24.
 
 On April 5, 2017,Pehlu, a dairy farmer from Haryana, was brutally lynched by cow vigilantes (gau rakshaks) near Behror in Alwar. He was transporting cows he purchased in Jaipur, to Nuh in Haryana. He was attacked near Jaguwas in Behror on NH 8. Pehlu's family had claimed that they had valid documents to transport cows. However, police said they didn't have the required permit.
 
 "The permit is issued by the collector of the district from where the bovines are bought and required to transport cows to another state. We kept asking the family to produce the transit permit, but they never submitted it. Initially, we had registered a case under Sections 5, 8, 9 of the Rajasthan Bovine Animal (Prohibition of Slaughter and Regulation of Temporary Migration or Export) Act, 1995 and Rules, 1995," said a senior officer with the Alwar police. "We have maintained the same charges filed earlier in the FIR against Pehlu Khan and five others," the officer said. 
 
 Pehlu's family had produced the purchase bill for the cows after the FIR was filed. 
 
 The Meo community to which Pehlu belonged had also accused the police of filing a weak chargesheet against them. "Police are trying to prove that Pehlu is a smuggler while not clarifying who killed him," said Sher Mohammad, former 'sadar' of Meo panchayat.
 
 Police said Pehlu Khan's family failed to provide transit permit required for transporting cattle from one state to another 
 
 
