CHANDIGARH: The Union Public Service Commission ( ) on Friday cleared the name of 1995-batch Punjab Civil Service (PCS) officer   for promotion to IAS cadre.

 Kataria is now posted as special secretary in the public works department (buildings and roads). The decision was taken in a meeting held at UPSC, New Delhi, on Friday. With the move, Kataria will be placed at the top in the 2015 select list of IAS. But, Friday’s decision is subject to the outcome of Kataria’s petition pending before the Chandigarh bench of the central administrative tribunal (CAT).
 
 If Kataria’s case finds favour with CAT, her file would again be sent by the state government to the department of personnel in the central government for final notification.   (PPCC) former president Virendra Kataria, Madhvi will superannuate in September 2021. Punjab IAS officer Sarvesh Kaushal, chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh and secretary personnel department A S Miglani also attended the UPSC meeting.
 
 UPSC turned down Kataria’s case for promotion to the IAS cadre in July last year. Thereafter, she sought details of her annual confidential reports (ACRs) under the RTI Act and came to know that her ACRs were ‘downgraded’ at senior level. She then sought review of her ACRs and the same were upgraded for the years 2012-13, 2013-14 and 2014-15, from good to very good and from very good to outstanding.
 
 The Punjab government cleared Kataria’s case on December 6 last year for forwarding it to the UPSC to convene a review selection committee meeting. But the UPSC said its earlier decision could not be reviewed as rules did not provide for it. The PCS officer then moved the CAT in January, seeking directions to the UPSC to convene the review selection committee meeting.
 
 The CAT had on April 2 directed the UPSC to hold a review departmental promotion committee (DPC) meeting and reconsider Punjab government’s decision in Kataria’s case. The PCS officer had submitted that state government’s latest decision to upgrade her ACRs would have a direct bearing on her career since her junior PCS officers had already entered the IAS cadre with all consequential benefits.
 
 
