MUMBAI: It’s less than a fortnight before the BMC announces a new   but it has, so far, managed to spend only about 31% of last year’s budget. The silver lining, however, is that the expenditure this fiscal has doubled as compared to the previous year, when only 16.81% of the budget was spent. 

 The BMC, the richest civic body in the country, is expected to present the budget for the new fiscal year on February 3.
 
 First time in the BMC’s history, last year, the budget was slashed by almost Rs 11,000 crore—from Rs 37,052 crore to Rs 25,141 crore. The capital expenditure too was brought down from Rs 12,957.83 crore the previous budget to Rs 8,121.58 crore. Capital expenditure is about 20-35% of the corporation’s budget ever year.
 
 A close look at how much money was spent by key departments this fiscal shows that maxim um expenditure took place in the development plan department and the scam-hit roads department. In comparison, departments like solid waste management spent less money.
 
  
  
 
 
 Civic officials blamed the introduction of goods and services tax (GST) for the unspent money. They claimed a lot of tenders that had been floated had to be called back due to GST. “In the roads and storm water drains departments, tenders almost on the verge of completion had to be called back as GST was not incorporated in them,” said an official.
 
 Civic body had to call back tenders, revoke the earlier taxes and incorporate GST to be levied on the contractor. 
 
  But some departments witnessed more expenditure this year. Compared to last fiscal’s 4.26%, the roads department saw a massive rise in expenditure at 51.40%. The official attributed this rise to release of payments to contractors, which were withheld last year due to the road scam. 
 
 The development plan department too spent much more (70.10%) compared to last time (21.51%). An official from the department said the expenditure rose due to acquisition of many land parcels this year. 
 
 Municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta said that officials were told to list only those works that could be be finished. “We wanted to focus on a realistic budget. Only those works which could take off were listed,” he said.
 
 But corporators slammed the BMC for coming out with “inflated budgets” year after year. Samajwadi Party leader in the BMC Rais Shaikh said, “Last budget, the civic body claimed that the budget was inflated for all these years and hence, slashed it. However, the story continues this year and a huge chunk of it has remained unspent.” In 2016-17, out of the capital expenditure of Rs 12,957.83 crore, only 29.72% was spent till the end of the financial year.
 
 Activists said the civic administration alone cannot be blamed as proposals are kept pending at various statutory committees. “Major proposals which require a substantial sum need a consent from the standing committee. However, members keep postponing such meetings for reasons best known to them,” said advocate Godfrey Pimenta.
 
 Sion-based activist GR Vora said that the unspent amount leaves citizens befuddled, especially when one looks at the slow pace of development.
 
 
