MAJDIA (NADIA): Large-scale violence broke out at Majdia and Karimpur in   on Thursday over counting of votes, prompting police to lathicharge and fire tear gas shells. The   (SEC) sought a report from Nadia district administration on both the incidents. The problems erupted after   candidates took a lead in both these places. 

 At Majdia, the counting of ballots was on at Sudhir Ranjan Lahiri College in Krishnaganj block for the Shibnibash gram panchayat seat. BJP sources claimed their candidate Niladri Sukul had defeated Trinamool Congress's Partha Ghosh by 220 votes. Soon, alleged Trinamool Congress men tore off the net around the counting tables and tried to cancel the ballots by stamping on them. They carried a seal inside with them for that. "Their intent was to cancel the ballots," Niladri said. It happened just before the issuance of certificate. 
 
 As Niladri obstructed, the Trinamool men allegedly took him out of the counting center by force and beat him up. Niladri said, "They removed the CCTV there and ransacked it. Police stood there and did nothing." However, when Trinamool men thrashed the BJP candidate, tension mounted. The Trinamool men also later allegedly hurled bombs and police reportedly fled the spot. However, police later arrived with reinforcements and resorted to lathicharge and firing tear gas shells to bring the situation under.
 
 At Karimpur, a BJP candidate, Nilima Karmakar, who was leading by 36 votes, was told sometime later that she had lost. This triggered tension with BJP supporters blocking the Kanai Khali road in protest. Irate BJP supporters also set ablaze a police vehicle and a bus on fire. Police had to resort to lathicharge and fire tear gas shells to disperse the agitators two hours later. 
 
 Locals alleged that the police had fired six rounds of bullets in the air to scare them away. In this, a bystander - Pabitra Ray - who had come to the nearby market sustained bullet wounds in his arm and had to rushed to the local sub-divisional hospital. Senior police officers, however, refused to comment on the matter. 
 
 
