NEW DELHI: Former India captain   believes the ongoing   - a six-team tournament organised by the Mumbai Cricket Association - is a belated addition to Mumbai’s storied history of cricketing infrastructure, but one that gives the city’s cricketers a great chance to enhance their skills. 

 
 
 
 Writing for TOI, the former Mumbai captain and one-time chief selector for the BCCI was glad that there were a few players with international experience involved in the inaugural edition of the tournament. 
 
 
 
 “Fringe players getting a platform to play against India's Test and one-day players in a franchise-based T20 league format is a treat to watch just ahead of the bigger extravaganza such as the IPL opens in a few weeks time,” wrote Vengsarkar. “I am glad the likes of  , Shreyas Iyer, Abhishek Nayar and others are participating in the tournament as their presence and experience will surely rub on to the newcomers. Over the years, Mumbai has always been one of the top team in India’s domestic circuit simply because the Test players had time to play in the local tournaments and hence the young local cricketers get advice on the spot. That was the reason they could learn the tricks of the trade quickly.”
 
 The Mumbai T20 league began on Monday with   beating North Mumbai Panthers at the Wankhede Stadium, followed by Mumbai North East Triumph Knights defeating Sobo Supersonics. Among the big players to feature on opening day were India batsman Ajinkya Rahane and Under-19 World Cup winning captain  . 
 
 “With Triumph Knights Mumbai North East and Arcs Andheri to meet on Wednesday in their respective third league match, it would be interesting to see how the league moves ahead,” wrote who played 116 Tests and 129 ODIs, and who has been involved in Mumbai cricket selection for years. “With Triumph Knights winning over Sobo Supersonics and Arcs Andheri winning over North Mumbai Panthers on the opening day of the league, the stage was set for some real cricket action, even though I feel Mumbai is a bit late in organising such a league. In cricket you can only learn from the experience and one has to learn and implement it to better the performance.
 
 According to Vengsarkar, the T20 format was a great way to attract crowds. “Though the connoisseurs would prefer to watch the longer format of the game, the T20 format is here to stay with the IPL for the last decade being a huge success. The T20 league has almost hundred local Mumbai players on view and I expect bigger crowds to witness the close finishes as the league progresses,” he wrote.
 
