NAGPUR: The claims made by the city police top brass about a slew of anti-crime measures designed to deter gangsters and curb anti-social activities seemed to have got debunked with the murder of Sarang Madne in a gang war at Borgaon on Saturday. Gittikhadan police have rounded up five persons for the murder but the alleged mastermind is on the run.

 Three gang wars in the city within a month have claimed two lives and left many injured. Also, for the first time in several years, a gang managed to chase cops away by damaging their vehicles on December 25.
 
 Madne’s murders also points to unbridled criminal activities in north east Nagpur. On Friday, Ankit Usarbase, 19, was kidnapped and assaulted by his rivals in Kharbi. 
 
 Made was well-connected to a heavyweight corporator who had lost the last assembly election in 2014. 
 
 Usarbase, also having crime records, and his gang had attacked father of goon   Paswan one-and-a-half month ago. Paswan, who was arrested for a murder in 2016, then plotted the kidnapping of Usarbase from Milan Nagar near Kharbi on Friday. 
 
 Madne and alleged mastermind of his murder,  , also a former accused of Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA), fell out over a plan to eliminate their common rival Karim Lala. 
 
 Chacharkar, a close aide of gangster Sumeet Thakur, operates gambling dens at Gorewada, Borgaon and near the last bus stop at Gittikhadan. It is learnt, Chacharkar also owns a gambling club at Gondkhairi. Sources in the locality claimed that some cops from Gittikhadan police station and crime branch meet Chacharkar at these places on a regular basis. 
 
 Lala, out on bail after being arrested for a tiff with Musa gang at   in December last year, is now plotting to bump off Thakur and Chacharkar. Thakur’s gang too is eyeing an opportunity to take on Lala whose main source of illegal income is extortion from gambling and bootlegging dens in and around Mankapur, Godhni, Zingabai Takli and   Nagar. 
 
 Sources close to Madne said Chacharkar wanted Madne to take ‘supari’ of Lala. Madne wanted to get to his target on his own. It was also learnt that Madne addressed Chacharkar by his name without referring to him as ‘Bhau’ which fuelled the anger. 
 
 Made was engaged in gambling at the illegal den of   near Mankapur chowk when one of his close aide called him back to Borgaon to settle a dispute within his group. Madne, who had two sharp weapons on him, came back to Borgaon on Shaoib Chipda’s scooter. 
 
 Chipda, who is close to Chacharkar, wrenched the two sharp weapons from Madne on a flimsy ground. Chacharkar and his gang rushed to the spot. As close aides fled for cover, Madne was pinned down by Chacharkar, Sudhir Dhumale and others before being stabbed to death. Gittikhadan police have rounded up five persons but Chacharkar is still at large. 
 
 
