NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   Wednesday said his government had given the maximum honour to B R Ambedkar post-Independence, breaking his silence on incessant criticism from the opposition in the wake of the Supreme Court directive putting checks on the stringent provisions of  .

 
 "No government has, perhaps, given respect to Babasaheb the way our government has. Instead of dragging him into politics, we should all try to walk on the path he has shown us...," he said at the inauguration of a transit accommodation for newly-elected MPs at the Western Court.
 
 With Ambedkar being the political shorthand for SCs, Modi appeared to address the pressure on the Dalit front with a retaliatory punch by underlining the memorials to the emancipator that the BJP government has completed after the "delays" under Congress-led UPA.
 
 Modi announced that he would open the " " here on the eve of the Dalit icon's birth anniversary on April 14. He also mentioned the inauguration of "Ambedkar International Centre" on Janpath in December 2017.
 
 The PM added his government was committed to "sabka saath sabka vikas".
 
 Dalit politics has been on the boil since March 20 when the SC, in a landmark judgment, barred automatic arrests under POA Act while introducing the provision of anticipatory bail in the law. The two measures have been under attack from general communities as draconian though they are seen as strong deterrents against crimes on  .
 
 The court order triggered an avalanche of criticism of the Centre, with even the review petition filed by the government in the apex court failing to staunch its flow.
 
 The "Bharat bandh" protests by Dalit groups on Monday were marked by violence and killings. Congress president   returned to the campaign trail in Karnataka on Tuesday with a trenchant attack on Modi, asking why was he mum on the court judgment.
 
 While BJP and central ministers have offered defence of the government, Modi refrained from commenting on the issue in public even as he assured Dalit MPs of BJP and NDA ally, Lok Janshakti chief and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, about government's plan to appeal the contentious SC order. But in his first words alluding to the events around, he steered clear of the POA Act while appearing to address it with an indirect mention of the measures taken by him to honour Ambedkar.
 
