  : In a shocking move, contractual health workers, who are on strike, locked a hospital unit triggering panic among dozens of tuberculosis patients who need essential medication. The unit is locked since February 19 as the striking workers have taken away the keys. As a result, many patients have been forced to go without medication for more than a week now. 

 "For over a week, patients have been queuing for tuberculosis medicines at the unit. We do not have the keys to open the facility so that we can dispense medicines to patients. The contractual employees have taken away the keys with them," said Dr Anil Jain, a medical officer at   hospital at DIG Bungalow in Bhopal.
 
 The hospital caters to victims of Bhopal gas disaster of 1984. A significant number of survivors suffer from respiratory ailments. "We have requested the district TB officer and other officials to intervene. A break in TB medication could lead to severe problems and potential spread of the disease," Dr Jain added. 
 
 There are an estimated 5.74 lakh gas victims and hospital run by department of Bhopal Gas relief and rehabilitation (BGRR) caters to a significant number of patients. A letter requesting for keys of the facility has already been sent, but no action action has been taken by senior district health officials, including Bhopal district chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr  . Shrugging off responsibility, Dr Jesani said, "I am not responsible for TB medication. It is handled by BGRR." However, BGRR administration claims that the facility falls under the purview of CMHO. 
 
 When asked if any action would be taken against those who locked the facility, Dr Jesani, said, "Contractual employees are already on strike. We cannot take any action." Seeking immediate action against erring staffers, activist   said, "The callousness of the MP health department has touched a new low, where TB patients are not getting the much-needed medication due to incompetence and brazen attitude of officials.Centre has been closed for a week and no action has been taken." 
 
 Union government's Revised National   (RNTCP) covers around 79 lakh patients in MP. Going by health department estimates, there are three new TB cases in Bhopal every day. A report by Active Case Finding (ACF) with help of private practitioners reveals that on any given day there are 7,000 TB cases in Bhopal that need medication. 
 
 "Most drug resistant TB arise due to failure of people to take their anti-TB drugs properly, rather than from them becoming infected with an MDR TB strain," said a senior health official. In  , 82 cases of drug resistant TB strain were detected in 2016, as per national TB report.
 
 The callousness of the MP health department has touched a new low, where TB patients are not getting the much-needed medication due to incompetence and brazen attitude of officials. Centre has been closed for a week and no action has been taken to resolve the issue
 
 
