BHOPAL: The   ( ) razed around 150 structures including 60 shops as part of its anti-encroachment drive in   on Friday. The anti-encroachment squad reached Chanchal crossing at around 12 noon amid tight security, and announced the occupants to vacate the structures while the shopkeepers resisted the move.

 Chanchal Sweet House, Mohan Medical, Goyal Jewellers, Dulhe Raja and Jai Durga Suits are among the known shops in Bairagarh that were razed by the BMC. Though the mob had resisted the BMC action but could not do much as the shopkeepers were informed about their illegal structures and action to be taken against it some three months ago.
 
 “Notices were issued thrice to the shopkeepers and residents directing them to get the structures demolished but in vain,” said BMC additional commissioner Malika Nagar, adding that the stretch of encroachment on the Chanchal road is being removed to construct  . “The project was being delayed for a month despite several warnings to the occupants,” she said. Though shopkeepers were given time to remove the goods in the market, they refused to heed. “We waited for 30 minutes for them to remove the stock but shopkeepers were adamant, forcing us to take the action,” said Nagar, adding, “The BMC squad had no option but to demolish the structures.”
 
 “We have lost goods worth lakhs of rupees in the drive,” said  , a medical shop owner, adding, “We were ready to vacate but the time given to us was not enough.”
 
 Another shopkeeper Rajeev Asnani said, “BMC workers have demolished the outer part of the shop today. We will have to shift the stock overnight as on Saturday they will demolish the remaining area.”
 
 Around 15 shops were demolished while 70% of famous shops including   and Mohan medical shop were demolished. After the anti-encroachment drive, the shopkeepers started searching for their goods buried under the debris of concrete.
 
 Nagar said, “Shopkeepers constructed their shops for around 7 metres beyond the permissible area. The street of Adarsh Marg will be around 30 metres wide.”
 
 She said, “Shopkeepers tried to resist and we used police force twice to control the mob.” “Apart from BMC squad, there were 20 personnel from Special Armed Forces and 40 policemen from different police stations, ASP Sameer Yadav and CSP Lokesh Sinha,” said Bairagarh SHO Sudhir Arjaria.
 
 He said, “The traffic was blocked on Bairagarh road for more than five hours because of demolition.”
 
 Arjaria said, “The demolition drive will continue on Saturday also.”
 
