CHANDIGARH: Notorious gangster and one of the Nabha jailbreak masterminds, Ramanjit Singh alias Romi, has been named in at least two robberies in Hong Kong in which 36.2 million Hong Kong dollars or Rs 30 crore were cleaned up by him and his accomplices. 

 Romi has been kept in high-security Lai Chi Kok Reception Centre (prison). Hong Kong newspaper   on Tuesday reported that his security in the jail had been increased to maximum after India alerted the authorities about his alleged involvement in serious crimes in Punjab.
 
 Romi was one of the eight men who on February 9 attacked five persons carrying two suitcases filled with 33 million Hong Kong dollars. The victims were carrying suitcases from a money exchange to a bank. Hong Kong police arrested three of the accused the same day and recovered all the money. Romi and two more accused were arrested on Feburary 21.
 
 Romi was earlier involved in a 3.2 million Hong Kong dollars robbery case in Hung Hom in March 2017, the newspaper reported. The February 9 robbery was committed while he was out on bail. The Hong Kong paper, however, quoted a police officer saying, "In practice, we can only allow extradition once all legal proceedings are finished in Hong Kong."
 
 The South China Morning Post also reported that one of the Indians settled in Hong Kong said Romi was "well known" in the Indian community in the city as "not the guy you want to make trouble with".
 
 Gurmit Singh Chauhan, Punjab's assistant inspector general of police of the organized crime control unit (OCCU), told TOI, "Interpol red corner notices against Romi were issued in January last year. Hong Kong authorities had asked us for some documents needed for Romi's extradition, which we have provided them."
 
 Romi was born in Bhinderkhurad village in Dharamkot tehsil of Moga in Punjab. Chauhan added that Romi's parents were farmers and they migrated to Hong Kong a few years after Romi was born as their relatives had settled there. 
 
 Romi's cousin -   alias Rammi Machana - is also an alleged gangster and is lodged in Bathinda central jail. It was on February 24 that a SIM card was recovered from a bag inside his barrack.
 
 
