CHENNAI: The ‘no objection’ expressed by the Centre to naming the authority envisaged in the draft   “Cauvery Management Board ( )” has raised hopes of the mechanism finally becoming a reality. The nomenclature of the scheme was a point of contention and the Centre earlier left it to the court to decide a name for the authority that is to supervise and regulate water distribution. The political developments in Karnataka will, however, have a bearing when the amended draft scheme is presented to the court on Thursday.

 Tamil Nadu on Wednesday wanted the Supreme Court to direct the Centre to go by the tribunal recommendations against the backdrop of opposition protests over the name. The Centre’s scheme is mostly in line with the tribunal’s final award, including the composition of the regulatory bodies, authority and water regulation committee. But, its reluctance to name the scheme triggered an uproar. “When the CJI bench asked attorney general K K Venugopal if the Centre had any objections (on CMB), he said no. It raises hopes but it remains to be seen what happens tomorrow,” said a TN government official.
 
 The court said the authority should be headquartered in New Delhi rather than Bengaluru. Making this demand, Tamil Nadu did not object to the water regulation committee being stationed in Bengaluru.
 
 Following objections from Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry, the court told the Centre that only the authority could have the final say. The authority, as recommended by the tribunal, could seek the help of the Centre to implement the award. “What if the Centre with political considerations takes a partisan stand? The authority will have to find ways and means to implement its order,” said another official.
 
 TN BJP chief Tamilisai Soundararajan said the dispute would finally end on a positive note. “There is no need to debate on the name of the authority. All we need is Cauvery water. The Congress government took seven years to gazette the final award of the tribunal. But we maintain utmost patience to get a permanent solution. It has nothing to do with politics. We are only concerned about the safety of Tamils in Karnataka,” she said.
 
 The court was not agreeable to Tamil Nadu’s demand for a more independent chairman — who can be a retired Supreme Court judge — to head the authority. The state wanted the central governmentto notify the scheme as soon as the court passed its orders.
 
 
