MOHALI: Three days after a 30-year-old man was found murdered in   village in   district, the police on Saturday arrested his wife, his sister-in-law and her boyfriend for conspiring and murdering him.

 Cops at   police station had rounded up friends of   Kayyum, the victim, for investigation. One of them was  , the boyfriend of his sister-in-law. Cops found his behaviour unusual. When the accused was interrogated strictly, he broke down and admitted to his crime, police said. He also confirmed the involvement of Abdul’s wife Shabana and his sister-in-law Shabnam. 
 
 Shabana told cops that her husband Abdul was a violent man and often used to assault her. He was also rude towards Shabnam. Police said Abdul used to take all the money from his wife and whenever she opposed, he used to hit her.
 
 Gulzar was also annoyed with Abdul due to his behaviour with Shabnam. When Abdul’s wife and Shabana conspired to eliminate him, Gulzar joined hands with the two. 
 
 On January 3, Shabana added sedatives to Abdul’s drinks, hoping he would die due to the overdose. But when their plan failed, the accused took Abdul near Sector 125 and killed him using sharp-edged weapons. 
 
 A police official said, “The   weapon and blood-stained clothes of the accused have been recovered. They will be produced in a court”.
 
 Abdul’s body was found at a vacant land by a morning walker on January 3. During initial investigation, the victim’s wife misled the cops, claiming a few friends of Abdul had taken him from his house early in the morning.
 
 
 
 The body of the 30-year-old man was found at a vacant land near Sector 125 on January 3
 
 His wife tried to mislead the cops, claiming her husband’s friends had picked him up from the house
 
 Police found the victim’s wife, her sister and her lover hatched the plan to kill him as he was violent towards the two women and used to take their money
 
 The three tried to drug him to death but he regained consciousness
 
 The three took him to the vacant land near Sector 125 and killed him with a sharp-edged weapon
 
 
