It is important for teams that lose to pick up the winning thread quickly and that's what the   did after losing to Mumbai Indians. They came back with a spirited display trying out a new opening batting combination and going on to win the match with ease against Delhi Daredevils.

 
 
 
 
 Batting down the order made no difference to  , who is showing why he is such a good player in the limited overs format. He has the ability to know when to accelerate and when to knock the ball around for ones and twos. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Moreover, his determination to stay the length of the innings means that Chennai has one well set batsman at the end too and that makes the last few overs quite profitable. With Dhoni being in incredible hitting form, Chennai are confident of chasing down any score that the opposition may put up.
 
  
  
 
  and   also give the Chennai batting experience and strength as both can power the ball away any time. The only area where Chennai are a bit uncertain like all other teams with the exception of Sunrisers Hyderabad, is the bowling especially in the power play and the slog overs. 
 
 Sunrisers have been quite exceptional in this regard where their bowlers have defended small totals and eventually won the match for their teams with a healthy margin too.
 
 The   have a balanced attack and that doesn't make it easy for the big hitters as Karthik is cleverly using the mix of pace and spin. After getting his bowling priorities wrong in the first couple of games, the KKR skipper has settled down quite nicely and his bowling changes and field placements can't be faulted. Their batting too is just gathering steam with   spending quality time out in the middle in their win over the Royal Challengers.
 
 Having young Shubman Gill down the order is also proving to be a good move as the youngster is showing great adaptability and awareness of the situation. If teams find out Narine with short pitched bowling then the youngster is ready to step in and open the batting and show his skills there too.
 
 The Eden has been pretty much a fortress for the Knight Riders and it will take all of Dhoni's shrewdness to breach that.
 
