AHMEDABAD: A   sailor from Mandvi in  , Umar  , 47, was supposed to be released from Minab jail in   during the ongoing holy month of Ramzan. But the latest development in the case has dashed the hopes of his family. Apparently,   was accused of smuggling diesel and illegal intrusion by Iranian authorities. His boat was seized and he was jailed along with 11 other crew members in 2014. 

  Thaim’s family, however, maintains that Thaim’s boat, “Safeena Al Shena” had strayed into Iranian territorial waters due to strong winds and rough sea, while on its way from Dubai to Yemen. 
 
 The fine imposed by Iranian authorities amounts to Rs 97 lakh in Indian rupees, but considering his four years labour in Iran jail, and also by giving some concessions, Iranian authorities may let him go with a fine of Rs 58 lakh, sources close to the development said.
 
 Thaim’s brother, Noor Mohammed, said, “We came to know that we will have to pay a whopping amount equivalent to Rs 58.78 lakh to the Iranian authorities for my brother’s release, or else he will be languishing in jail for ten more years.”
 
 “My brother’s lawyer told this to our younger brother Ibrahim, who had gone to Iran for Thaim’s release,” said Noor Mohammed. “Thaim has been suffering from hypertension and diabetes and if he remains in jail for a few more years, his chances of survival will be drastically reduced.”
 
 Noor Mohammed said that only the government of India can obtain the Gujarati sailor’s release by holding talks with their counterparts in Iran. “We have made numerous representations to external affairs minister   and MoS for Panchayati Raj, Purushottam Rupala. They have also responded positively, but concrete steps are pending,” Noor Mohammed said, adding that Thaim was the sole earning member of the family, and they have no way by which they could arrange such huge amount of money.
 
 Thaim’s family and members of sailors’ associations have made numerous representations to the ministry of external affairs (MEA) pleading to arrange for his release. Earlier, they had learnt that Thaim could not be released due to some discrepancy in his father’s name as recorded on his passport, but after that glitch was cleared, they came to learn of this new issue.
 
 
