NAGPUR: There are no friends or foes in politics and Nagpur University’s political outfits proved it true as bitter rivals over the years, who fought earlier polls separately, have now joined hands for the upcoming graduates’ constituency elections, as per NU insiders.

 The Secular Panel (SP) headed by Dr Vedprakash Mishra and   (YTA) led by Baban Taywade have came together to fight the threat of Shikshan Manch (SM) which is closely associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad ( ). 
 
 The rivals were joined by another strong player — Vidyapeeth Vidyarthi Sangram Parishad (VVSP) and Padvidhar Mahasangh, to form a jumbo alliance.   is another player in fray, which would be contesting all ten seats, while   Teachers Association (NUTA) is also vying for a couple of seats.
 
 Before the first deadline, about 96 applications were received for ten seats, of which 36 withdrew their candidature. It left 63 candidates in fray, but after the mega alliance, another 26 of them withdrew, a majority of them from the jumbo alliance. 
 
 About 17 would fight it out for five seats in open category, while rest would contest for equal number of seats in the reserve category. It included five each in SC and OBC, four in ST, and three each for VJ/NT and  .
 
 Confirming the alliance, SP convener Abhijit Wanjari termed the move as a merger of “like-minded” parties. He declined that the alliance was formed to ward of threats from Shikshan Manch and ABVP. “Every time, we fight these polls individually, we managed to win just a couple of seats, without any big success. So, we’ve decided to fight it out together, as we have a combined strength of over 10,000 voters out of 17,000. We would be fielding nine candidates and are confident of winning majority of them,” he told TOI.
 
 VVSP convener Mohan Bajpayee stated that they would be fighting polls under VVSP’s banner supported by Taywade, Wanjari, Mahendra Nimbarte, and siblings — Girish and Kiran Pandav. 
 
 Out of over 1.05 lakh registered graduates in NU’s list, a little over 17,000 have enrolled for these elections, as first reported by TOI on November 22. The much-awaited polls would be conducted on February 4 while counting would he held on February 6, followed by results on same evening. NU administration has set up 92 polling centres in Bhandara, Wardha and Gondia, besides Nagpur city and rural areas, for the convenience of voters.
 
 
