CHANDIGARH: Now that the senate has decided that the   (PU) registrar would withdraw the affidavit filed by the university vice-chancellor Prof   on governance reforms in the   and Haryana high court, the authorities will now have to take permission from the court to withdraw the affidavit. A circular on Monday was sent to all about the decision of the senate instructing the registrar to withdraw the affidavit on the behalf of  .

 It’s only after the high court grants permission that the registrar will be able to withdraw the affidavit. After it is withdrawn, a fresh affidavit will be filed by the university. “The resolved part of the affidavit has been circulated to all the members on Monday. Now, the permission from the court will be sought to withdraw the affidavit,” said a senior official of the university.
 
 During the senate meeting on Sunday, Satya Pal Jain, additional solicitor general of India and PU senate member, said that to withdraw the affidavit, the court needs to grant permission. The senate member on Sunday repeatedly asked the university vice-chancellor to withdraw the affidavit. However, he refused to do so and said, “I am prepared for all consequences.”
 
 Grover had filed an affidavit in the Punjab and Haryana high court on the governance reforms of the university on April 17. On April 21, in a meeting, the syndicate members asked the VC to withdraw the affidavit. He refused to withdraw the affidavit filed and adjourned the meeting. The syndicate members then passed a resolution on April 21 stating that the VC should withdraw this affidavit.
 
 Since the adjourned meeting was scheduled for April 29, the syndicate members in the meeting again asked the VC to withdraw the affidavit. The VC refused to do so. The syndicate members then took back the delegated power of the VC on April 29. The syndicate also recommended that the university senate should also take back the powers delegated to VC. However, on Sunday, the senate resolved that the registrar should withdraw the affidavit on behalf of PU filed by Grover in the court. 
 
 
