BENGALURU: The long-pending   for Bengaluru got the green signal in Thursday’s   "A   of approximately 160km at an estimated cost of Rs 17,000crore, is being planned to cater to the growth of Bengaluru metropolis,” announced Union finance minister  ,   the ambitious project slated to save Bengalureans endless traffic bottlenecks.

 
 With assembly elections just a few months away, the budgetary fillip to the suburban rail is likely to help BJP score a few brownie points with Bengaluru voters.
 
 The push comes a day after the Karnataka cabinet cleared the first phase of the suburban rail project on Wednesday. The project envisages elevated corridors within core areas of the city, enabling it to leapfrog over crucial junctions and bridges.
  
  
 
 The suburban rail project, in the pipeline since the 1990s, is being seen as a panacea for the gridlocked city and is a long-pending demand of professionals heading towards the tech corridors of Whitefield and Electronics City.
 
 According to the present plan, the Centre and state have to bear 20% each of the project cost, while the rest will be raised by means of innovative financing. The equity plan is now likely to change to 50:50 between the state government and Indian Railways, with the former ready to bear the burden of facilitating land and other responsibilities.
 
 Welcoming the budget announcement, Mahendra Jain, additional chief secretary of urban development, told TOI that the Karnataka government is ready to take the project forward. “The state cabinet has already approved investing 20% of the Phase I project cost of Rs 1,745crore over the next two years. The immediate step will be to set up a special purpose vehicle that will take up implementation of the project. We will focus on introduction of new services in this phase. Last year, we did augment some existing services by introducing MEMU as part of our commitment to push suburban services,” he said.
 
 Sanjeev V Dyamannavar, from the advocacy group Praja RAAG that has been pushing for a suburban rail network for Bengaluru, explained that the proposed suburban rail project is a larger network spanning over 440km, as it promises services to towns around Bengaluru, like Tumakuru, Mandya, Doddaballapura and Chikkaballapura, among others. The city will benefit from the network. “I see it as a positive step. The city hopes to realize its pending demand,” he added.
 
