NAGPUR: "I don't know how I did it. It's all because of Usman (Ghani) Sir," said former Vidarbha Under-19 skipper   as he recalled his golden run with the bat during 2007-08. Kadbe had finished among top five run-getters and narrowly missed out on the India Under-19 berth for 2008 World Cup, which India won under   in Malaysia.

 
 Before that season, Kadbe was a leg-spinner who would make decent contribution with the bat at No. 7 and 8. Ghani, however, saw a spark in him and promoted him to No. 4. The rest, as they say, was history. He scored two hundreds in   including a 198 against Delhi. The inexperienced team nearly qualified for the knock-outs when everyone thought they would be relegated to the Plate group.
 
 Ghani, a former Vidarbha skipper, has the knack of getting work done from his players. It was under him that Vidarbha won the Plate Group Under-19 Trophy in 2006-07 to qualify for the Elite Group next year. Now, Vidarbha are Cooch Behar champions under Ghani. They remained unbeaten in both formats this season
 
 "He is easily the best coach in Vidarbha. He has this ability to eye hidden talent in players. It was Ghani Sir, who discovered my batting. I never thought I could hit big hundreds. He is a very positive person and that rubs on the players. I was under him from Under-15 days. Every time we went for a match, he told us to respect the Vidarbha cap. For most players those days, it was only getting association's cap and T-shirt," Kadbe said.
 
 Ghani was then given charge of Vidarbha Ranji Trophy team. In his first assignment, Ghani guided the young Vidarbha team to the maiden championship in the Central Zone Vijay Hazare One-day tournament. Vidarbha went on to enter the maiden semifinal. Had he got more support from the selectors in his first stint, Vidarbha would have fared much better.
 
 It was under Ghani that   made his First Class debut. He was among those who identified Yadav's potential during his tennis ball days. Ghani, also a Lelel-3   coach, is regular in Zonal Cricket Academy summer camps. He continued to guide the teams to championships. When he was the chief coach of North Zone ZCA, they won the Inter-Zonal trophy in 2009. The likes of  ,   and   were part of that team. It was Ghani who convinced Unmukt's parents to allow him to play cricket.
 
 Ghani also guided the South Zone women to Inter-Zonal championship in 2010 and 2011. Several players of that team are now part of the Indian team. The likes of Veda Krushnmurthym, Shikha Pandey, Rajshri Gaekwad, Niranjana Nagarajan and Karuna Jain went on to play for the country.
 
 Ghani was Vidarbha's coach when they qualified for the knock-outs after a huge gap of nine years in 2011-12. Since then Vidarbha are playing in the Elite Group, which has helped them improve the standard.
 
 When Ghani was given the charge of the emerging group in 2013-14, he guided the team to Rajsingh Dungarpur Trophy under the captaincy of Atharva Taide. VIdarbha repeated the feat next year too. Almost all the players, who are part of the winning Cooch Behar team, were under Ghani. It was the reason, VCA vice-president and cricket in-charge Prashant Vaidya appointed him the Under-19 coach last year.
 
 "Usman is very good at handling the juniors. He knows how much freedom he needs to give his players and when to draw the line. He maintains that balance perfectly. He gives them an opportunity to evolve as a player so that they can think about their game. I have played with him so I know him well as a person. He was a spirited and disciplined cricketer during his playing days. He was a fighter and he inculcates those qualities in his players," Vaidya said.
 
 Ghani has helped many Vidarbha cricketers flourish during his 15 years of coaching. "90% of the players he coached are now well settled," said Kadbe in a tribute to his former coach. 
 
