CHENNAI: At 18,   is unruffled by the stature of the opposition. Be it his   debut or maiden T20 match for India, the offspinning allrounder seldom looked out of place against top batsmen.

 Fresh and upbeat after his India stint in limited-overs cricket, Washington is gearing up for the bigger challenges ahead in 2018. In an interview with TOI, the southpaw opened up on his India experience, his rise as a bowler, how he prepares to handle the expectations in the next IPL, his keenness to prove himself as a batsman at the top level and more.
 
 
 
 
 
 It’s been an eventful last three weeks. The exposure I have got at 18 representing India is huge. There were a lot of key learnings. I feel making my debut at 18 will ensure that I develop into a much better allround cricketer four or five years earlier than what is usual.
 
 
 
 There isn’t a vast difference between IPL and international cricket. In IPL, you get to bowl against at least seven international cricketers. But the pressure factor playing for India is much more than what it is in IPL. I was able to handle it well. I guess skill set on view and pressure factor are the two key differences. And the other thing is the amount of experience available in the dressing room.
 
 
 
 I was getting into an IPL setup last time. Pressure and expectations were different then. But now things will be totally different. There will be expectations on me from IPL franchises. But it’s important for me to believe in my abilities. I should be twice as better than what I was in the last IPL in every aspect as a cricketer. A lot of player analysis is done these days. The challenge for me is to overcome all those analysis and preparations from the opposition. At this stage, I need to trust in my abilities. I needn’t do anything different but stick to what I have been doing. It’s about doing the same things with a few additions to my skills.
 
 
 
 I have a lot of belief in my batting abilities and I’m confident. My focus is to ensure that I’m ready to perform as and when I get an opportunity. I want to showcase attacking instincts as a batsman in the Syed Mushtaq Ali tournament. I’m always a positive player. I don’t want to curb my natural instincts unless and until the situation demands. It’s important for me to do well and help TN win.
 
 
 
 Arun guided me more on the mental aspect of my bowling than on the technical front. He kept stressing that I’m young and I have to believe and enjoy my game. I have started reading batsmen better since I started playing the IPL. I will improve with experience by playing more games and get to know more about various conditions and situations.
 
 
 
 I don’t worry about such things. I just want to do well in every match I play whatever the format is. I don’t want to put such stuff in mind as it wouldn’t help bring out the best in me.
 
 
