PUNE: Cash van attendant Rahul Sangram Waghmare, robbed while ferrying currency notes at Kondhwa in November 2017, used the bitter experience to rob Rs25.61 lakh on May 3 at Yamunanagar in Nigdi from another note carrier with his two aides.

 The trio had assaulted the cash van attendant and fled with the booty. But the city crime branch arrested Waghmare with his two accomplices on Saturday. A minor boy was detained. Two other suspects, including Waghmare’s girlfriend, were booked.
 
 Police have seized Rs13.52 lakh from the suspects. The cash belonged to the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of India Limited.
 
 A team headed by assistant commissioner of police (crime) Bhanupratap Barge, assistant inspector Ganesh Patil, constables Dilip Lokhande and Pramod Vetal, and others nabbed the suspects after receiving a tip-off about their involvement in the case. Waghmare (22) of Baner had hatched the plot to rob the cash.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Pankaj Dahane said, “Besides Waghmare, his accomplices Mahadev Limbaji Khapre (23) of Baner and Sagar alias Bala Ramchandra Khatal (21) of Janwadi, off Senapati Bapat Road, were arrested.”
 
 Dahane said, “Waghmare worked with a private company transporting cash from banks to banks or from companies to banks in a van. Unidentified persons had accosted the cash van in which Waghmare was an attendant. They hurled chilli powder in his eyes and robbed Rs3.50 lakh. Waghmare had lodged a complaint with the Kondhwa police then. We shall again probe the case to check if it was a fabricated story.”
 
 Barge said, “Waghmare quit in April. Taking a clue from the Kondhwa case, he hatched the plan to rob the cash van.”
 
 He said, “Waghmare knew how the cash was collected and on which day the amount was high. He and his accomplices did a recce of the van’s itinerary in the area and executed the plans in front of Yamunanagar branch of LIC on May 3.”
 
 The police said Waghmare and his aides were looking for easy money for fun and merrymaking. 
 
 
