NAGPUR: The   office, which has to be transparent while dealing with government policies, is itself violating the Transfer Act, 2005, by posting chief accountant   at the sensitive establishment desk for over 11 years.

 The Act has fixed tenure of all officials and employees on a particular post for three years, except in case of Group C employees (non-secretariat service) who can be transferred after completion of two full tenures (6 years).
 
 Sukare, a Group C employee who is presently chief accountant, is working on the same desk since his appointment on August 18, 2006. He has completed 11 years and 6 months till date in the same establishment section.
 
 Sukare said, “It is true that for 10 years I handled IFS establishment, but now I have been shifted to a different table in the same section where I’m handling establishment of DFO/ACFs.”
 
 “As per my cadre, I cannot be shifted out of PCCF office. Moreover, it is the decision of top authorities where one should be posted. There are many employees here who are working at the same place for years together,” Sukare told TOI.
 
 However, forest sources said there are 28 desks at PCCF office and after completion of his tenure, Sukare could have been posted at any desk, other than desk 9, where he is working for over 11 years.
 
 Sukare’s posting for more than 11 years in the establishment section, has raised eyebrows.
 
 APCCF (administration & subordinate cadre) AR Mande said, “I will have to see what can be done. I cannot comment now.”
 
 In such cases, high court and MAT have directed the government to strictly adhere to provisions of the Transfer Act, 2005. A GR has also been issued on February 11, 2015 framing transfer guidelines. Sukare’s case clearly violates the Act and GR.
 
 Even after his promotion from accountant to chief accountant in 2016, Sukare’s table has not changed and respective APCCFs have chosen to ignore implementation of provisions of the   employees.
 
 TOI has also received copy of a complaint from Sunil Deshbhratar, Nagpur, who wrote to the Chief Minister’s Office on the issue.
 
 Deshbhratar alleged that Sukare is misleading senior officials and the government in establishment matters such as transfers, departmental enquiries, promotions, pension cases and other sensitive matters.
 
 Last month, retired DFO from Nashik, Hemant Chhajed, too had lodged a complaint against Sukare with state chief secretary   and forest secretary Vikas Kharge.
 
 
