Madurai: The proposed four-lane highway works between Thathampatti and Puduthamaraipatti would destroy hundreds of acres of fertile land and render the agricultural area barren, according to farmers and residents who participated in the public hearing on the land acquisition for the project. They urged the government to look for alternatives. The four-lane works are to be undertaken for 33 kms from Thathampatti in Vadipatti up to Puduthamaraipatti via Kodandaiyampatti, Thathakoundanpatti, Kalvelipatti, Chinna Ilandhaikulam, Valasai, Kallannai, Pannaikudi and Manthikulam at a cost of Rs 700 crore. About 700 acres of agricultural land is to be acquired for the project. The public hearing, which was held at the Madurai district collectorate, was presided over by DRO R Gunalan and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officer Saravanan. The farmers said that besides 700 acres of fertile agricultural land, 100 tanks and over 200 agricultural wells would be destroyed in the project.  The farmers said that the project had been documented in the gazette without properly informing the public and conducting a public hearing, which were mandatory. They said that the road was not going to shorten the connectivity between Madurai-Salem highway and Madurai-Chennai highway in a big way, and what was being reduced was just a matter of a few minutes, not hours. C Pugazhendi of Manthikulam said that Manthikulam and the surrounding areas were one of the most fertile areas in Madurai region, where agriculture continued to flourish even during the worst drought. ``We get good water from even a depth of 70 feet in the villages where the land is to be acquired for the project,’’ he said.  T Suresh of Kallivelipatti near Vadipatti submitted a petition objecting to the new road as it was coming in a double crop area. Another farmer said that NHAI should consider an alternative route, as the project would destroy the remaining portion of Madurai’s paddy basket, which had now been reduced to just about 700 acres due to rapid urbanization and destruction of water bodies. This road would disrupt the cascade route between the tanks of this region, which still filled up in monsoon and helped meet the water needs of city. 