LUCKNOW: A deputy commandant of  , who was a   medalist in swimming, vanished after he jumped into the Gomti from   in Madion on Saturday. 

 He first threw his elder son, aged seven, in the river and later jumped with his younger son, aged four, in his lap. Though the elder son was able to swim to safety, the younger one drowned and his body was later recovered by the police.
 
 He took the step allegedly after a spat with his wife. 
 
 The commandant, however, is still missing. Divers of National Disaster Response Force have been pressed into service to look for him. Police said Vishambhar Dayal   (37) of   village of   lived with his wife Anuradha, Tejas (7) and Ansh (4) in Eldeco City Colony on IIM Road. He was recently transferred to Bijnor camp of the CRPF in Lucknow.
 
 The couple was reportedly not on good terms for several months. On the basis of statements of family members, police said that on Thursday, Anuradha was talking to her cousin through a video call and this irked Maurya so much that he picked up a fight with her and later thrashed her. 
 
 After this, Anuradha left with her sons for her parents' house in Malihabad. After waiting for her to return till late Friday evening, Maurya left for her parents' house to persuade her to come back. 
 
 ‘He lifted me, threw me in the river’
 
 Both argued on the issue till late. Around 5am on Saturday, he threatened that he would end his life along with his sons and left the house in his car with them. Tejas, who survived, told police that the boys were in the back seat. After reaching the river bank, he said his father put Ansh in his lap and dragged him outside.
 
 “He lifted me and threw me in the river. Later, my father jumped with Ansh in his lap. I fell into the shallow part and came out of the river climbing the slope,” he said.
 
 ASP (trans-Gomti) Harendra Kumar said Ansh was weeping. A truck driver stopped and informed the police after knowing of the incident from him. “We sent divers to look for both Maurya and his son. After a nine-hour search drive, they recovered the body of Ansh,” said Kumar.
 
 SHO Madiaon Amarnath Verma said CRPF officials told him Maurya was a gold medalist in swimming, which makes it hard to believe that he drowned. “We cannot say anything with certainty. Search is still under way,” he said.
 
 
