CHANDIGARH: The state government can reopen investigation into the alleged multi-crore scam regarding purchase of books worth crores for school libraries during the previous SAD-BJP government.   jails minister   said he would request the chief minister to reopen the probe into the alleged 2013 scam, in which name of then education minister Sikandar Singh Maluka had also come up.

 In the case, a ‘nominated’ firm, which was in the business of manufacturing pipes, had allegedly pocketed Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) grant meant to buy books for libraries in government schools. Adding twist to the tale, the main accused in the scam Vinod Kumar — Indicted along with two others by a commission constituted to look into this scam — had committed suicide.   leaders at that time had demanded Maluka’s resignation and CBI probe.
 
 On Thursday, Randhawa made demand for reprobe while speaking at press along with state education minister Om Parkash Soni and finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal. 
 
 Reacting to the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party on the issue of alleged deletion of Sikh Gurus history from Class XII history books, Soni said they were leveling baseless allegations.
 
 Speaking to media media at Panjab Bhawan in Chandigarh, the three ministers presented the government’s response to the statements issued by the SAD and AAP. The rival parties have accused the Congress government in Punjab of deleting the history pertaining to the Sikh Gurus from the Class XII history textbooks of Punjab School Education Board (PSEB).
 
 Soni said the experts committee has distributed the chapters on Punjab’s history in two classes, Class XI and XII. He added that his department had also decided to ban guide books printed by various private publishers.
 
 “Earlier, no such subject books were being published by PSEB and the students used to purchase guide books printed by private publishers. This year, the PSEB has decided to print its own books,” said Soni. He said the picture would clear as the Class XI history book was under publication and was expected to come out in 10 days.
 
 Soni said rather than deleting chapters, the board had added new chapters about ‘Four Sahibzadas’ and the battle of Saragarhi. The education department would also start special classes for Class XII as their syllabus had changed, the minister added.
 
 The SGPC schools and the Chief Khalsa Diwan schools were all affiliated to the CBSE, said Soni, adding, “Why doesn’t the opposition fight it out with the SGPC on the Sikh history?”
 
 Meanwhile, Manpreet said the PSEB was an autonomous body and the decision to revise the syllabus was taken in 2014 during the previous SAD-BJP government. “Syllabus for a few subjects has been revised and is in the process of being revised for some other subjects. And, the guide books being used by the students till date were never vetted by anyone.”
 
 He said the guide books were priced at around Rs 500 but the state board’s new history book for Class XII costs Rs 90. He said he suspected private guide book publishers to be behind the whole controversy as they were going to lose with the state education board publishing its own books.
 
 
