NEW DELHI: Deputy CM Manish Sisodia on Friday took on Prime Minister   over the sacking of Atishi  , who had been advising Delhi government on education reforms. In a three-page letter to the PM, Sisodia drew Modi’s attention to the hurdles the sacking has created in the betterment of education of poor children.

 Sisodia also tweeted the letter in which he requested the PM, “Lakeer ke saamne badi lakeer kheechkar bada baniye (please carry out more development across the country that what has been done in Delhi to show your bigger stature).” In support, chief minister Arvind   tweeted, “Pradhan Mantri ji lambi lakeer kheechiye.”
 
 The letter comes in the backdrop of AAP and Delhi government throwing their weight behind Marlena on and off social media to gather public sympathy. Sisodia, however, did not seek her reinstatement or any of the other sacked advisers.
 
 Recalling a meeting with the PM in 2015 in which he and Kejriwal had sought Modi’s blessings and support for better governance in Delhi, the deputy CM claimed that despite lack of support in the last three years there has been remarkable development work in the city. He urged the PM to visit any Delhi government school to witness the change.
 
 The deputy CM also drew the PM’s attention to the value of improving the standard of education provided by the government. “The best educational institutions are accessible by only 5% of the population. The rest, mostly the poor, depend on government schools to educate their children. Giving better education to the children of such people is our patriotism,” Sisodia said in the letter.
 
 Elaborating on the reforms undertaken by the government, Sisodia wrote that existing infrastructure has been improved, 25% of the budget earmarked for education, teachers trained, parents involved through PTA meetings, schools of excellence opened, among other initiatives. “Even our arch rivals acknowledge that we have managed to start the process of transforming government schools,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said that his advisor A K Singhal has also been sacked on the orders of the Union home ministry. This is expected to start a fresh round of confrontation between the AAP government and the Centre. Following MHA’s directions, a notification for Singhal’s removal was issued by the health department. The advisers were sacked as they were appointed without the prior approval of the Centre.
 
