Trichy: Farmers of Trichy are facing uncertainty whether they can harvest samba paddy, as more than 1, 000 acres of the crop is infected with false smut disease. The officials from agriculture department said that usage of uncertified seeds are a possible reason for this disease while the scientists from an Agriculture College attributed that high relative humidity or temperature and soil with high nitrogen were the reason for this condition. Meanwhile, farmers’ demand compensation from the government to manage the cost incurred for raising paddy.

 The agriculture department had recommended to the farmers to use ADT – 49, TKM 13, NLR, Co R 50 and Trichy 3 varieties. Since these paddy seeds are developed and certified by Aaduthurai Paddy Research Centre and Tamil Nadu Agriculture University in Coimbatore, it withstands drought, rain and pest. Moreover, the purpose of seed certification is to make available to farmers high-quality and genetically pure seeds of superior cultivars, a senior official from agriculture department said.
 
 However, some farmers in Trichy have raised the Andhra Ponni (BPT 5204). That variety has now been affected by false smut disease, a section of farmers complained. They had also petitioned to the director of agriculture during his visit to Trichy recently, said the state organiser of the farmers’ wing of Tamil Manila Congress, Puliyur A Nagarajan.
 
 The Seed Control Department in agriculture department even conducted a raid at many private agencies that continue to sell non-certified paddy seeds in Trichy and seized Rs 3 lakh worth paddy seeds. Despite repeated advice by the agriculture department, farmers have raised Andhra ponni as it fetches a better price in the open market.
 
 Meanwhile a team of scientists from Anbil Dharmalingam Agriculture College, headed by Head of the department Agronomy, Srinivasan visited Inam Puliyur village where the farmers complain that the disease exists. During their inspection, a land owned by Saroja was entirely affected by false smut, where Andhra ponni was raised. Whereas a neighbouring paddy land where a farmer raised a different variety of paddy was standing safely, said L Karthiba, assistant professor, Department of Pathology.
 
 “Late sowing, humidity above 90 degree celsius, excessive usage of urea and the particular variety collectively or anyone might be the reason for the disease”, she said.
 
 
