HYDERABAD: With the demand for computer knowledge growing among employers, the   collegiate education department has introduced more number of computer-related combinations in degree courses this year. Admission to these courses will begin on May 10.

 
 Being offered by private colleges until now, these computer-related courses will now be available to students joining government colleges as well, from the ensuing academic year. “We have introduced computer applications in all three streams (arts, commerce and science) to extend more options to students to choose from. While computer labs have been established in government degree colleges, we also intend to recruit more faculty members to teach computerrelated courses,” said  , commissioner of collegiate education. According to officials, of the 77,000 seats in government degree colleges, about 18,000 are allotted to computer-related courses.
 
 The decision to incorporate these courses – a combination of computer application, computer science with mathematics, physics/chemistry, banking, insurance, history, economics and political science -- officials said, was taken in response to a rise in demand for “technically sound people” across various sectors, including those in the non-IT space.
 
 “The curriculum for computer courses is integrated for the first four semesters in all the three streams. In the fifth and sixth semester, students will have electives in computer applications, computer science, hardware etc,” said  , adding that a meeting was recently held to the fix the curriculum for all electives.
 
  is in the process of tying up with nearby industries to enhance placements for upcoming graduates. “Apart from adding computer-related combinations in degree courses, an expert committee headed by the secretary of information technology, along with state university vice-chancellors, has been constituted to study how the employability of students can be increased. ” said  , convenor of degree online services Telangana.
 
