NAGPUR: Five years after TOI exposed irregularities in Kamptee-based   Engineering, including absence of laboratories and faculties, its management would be applying for the closure.

 The  , running the  , cited poor admissions and unavailability of quality faculty since last three years, as reasons behind its drastic move.
 
 The newspaper, in a series of reports from January 17, 2013, first exposed on how the college allegedly made hollow promises to the students during admissions, but failed to build laboratories for over two years since opening in 2010. Its management forced the students to conduct practicals in other colleges like Nuva, Anjuman and KITS Ramtek, that too, at the end of each semester. TOI’s expose forced AICTE to stop admission of its 300 seats on March 4, 2013, for a year.
 
 The college is a part of renowned Mumbai-based ITM Group of Institutions having big presence in education sector with institutions spreading across management and hospitality sector.
 
 Director   refused to comment. Principal   also refused to talk stating that he didn’t have exact information about any such proposal. TOI tried to contact ITM’s corporate office in Mumbai, but the reception guys refused provide mobile numbers of the concerned officials.
 
 Senior ITM officials, however confirmed that the management had already told their teaching and non-teaching staff to leave. In fact,   secretary   visited the college on Friday and apprise of the students and staff about impending decision to close the operations. On same day, the   (HRD) handed over letter with subject “closure of ITM college of Engineering” to many officials that closure process and surrendering the intake to AICTE was initiated. Moreover, “no admissions” would be undertaken from next academic year of 2018-19.
 
 “As per regulations mandated by the statutory authorities, we need to complete the separation and exit formalities of all staff and faculties with immediate effect,” the HRD’s letter (copy in TOI’s possession) mentioned.
 
 “Sufficient time and opportunity would be provided to all teaching and administrative personnel with advance notice, counselling for peaceful separation of individuals with the college. Even the exit formalities like salaries, Provident fund Documentation and other requirements would be completed as per the regulations,” the letter stated.
 
 The letter called on the college staffers to complete exit formalities before May 16 through the HR Department, including PF documentation and relieving letter as per norms.
 
 Officials added that they had made arrangements for currently enrolled students to seek transfer to other reputed colleges in city and assured them of smooth transfer on same fees and academic status.
 
 
