JAIPUR: Rajasthan Royals needed more than just Sanju Samson to stand up and be counted to get a positive result against the Dinesh Karthik-led Kolkata Knight Riders, who have the most successful spinners in the   so far.

 
 
 
 On Wednesday, here at the Sawai Mansingh Stadium, Samson failed to produce a magical knock like the one against Royal Challengers Bangalore last week. His contribution on the day was just seven, and that dented the team’s chances of putting up a big total. Royals, however, managed 160/8 in 20 overs. But that was not enough as Knight Riders, despite losing two early wickets, clinched the tie by seven wickets in 18.5 overs. With this win, KKR displaced Sunrisers Hyderabad from the top spot on the   points table. 
 
 
 
 Samson looked to play the short-arm pull but didn't make clean contact. The ball went towards deep square leg where Kuldeep Yadav took an easy catch off Shivam Mani. After being put in to bat by Kolkata Knight Riders, Royals were kept under tight leash by the opponent bowlers, but openers Rahane and D’Arcy Short broke the shackles and hit some entertaining blows.
 
 Kolkata skipper employed spinners from the beginning to check the flow of runs but Sunil Narine tuned out to be most expensive, giving 18 runs in one over. Skipper Rahane said earlier that even he wanted to bowl first but since the wicket looked good, he didn’t mind batting first. And he did that with flair, taking Narine to the cleaners.
 
 Karthik decided to keep the hosts silent in the Powerplay as he brought Narine into the attack in the third over. When he was going great guns, the Royals skipper was run out. He scored 37 off 19 balls, with five fours and a six.
 
 Rahane tried to flick one on the leg side off the bowling of Rana but he missed and Karthik moved swiftly to his left, picked the ball up and flicked it back. It was a stunning work by Karthik. Short justified his captain’s faith with his superb innings crafted with five fours and a six during his 43-ball innings of 44.
 
