BENGALURU: While the Big C strikes fear in most people, a few   have beaten it through sheer grit and timely medical help. Ahead of   on February 4, TOI looks at survivors who offer a ray of hope to many others.

 Learnt to talk again, now a motivational speaker
 
  was 44 when he was diagnosed with tongue   in 2006. Bhaskar, who headed the finance department of a multinational IT company in Bengaluru, decided to work throughout the treatment. He would go for chemotherapy in the morning and head to work in the afternoon.
 
 “My work kept me engaged. There was no difference in my deliverables at work. Maybe that’s why cancer didn’t cause too much stress,” said Bhaskar, now 55 and an independent consultant. He’s also an artist and part of the Pink Hope Support Group of Cancer Survivors here. “Try to have a regular routine. That’s what I did and it helped me,” said Bhaskar, who reassures cancer patients through motivational talks.
 
 Bhaskar said: “I don’t smoke or drink. A persistent ulcer developed into cancer. It started as a dental issue — my teeth kept grazing a portion of the tongue,” he said. He underwent chemotherapy for six months in 2007, and had a relapse in 2009 when a portion of the tongue was removed. He had to learn to speak again. “I can’t pronounce the ‘R’ sound. So I try to avoid using words with that sound,” he said. But that doesn’t stop him from giving talks.
 
 “I did have the ‘Why me?’ moments in the beginning, but stress only adds to the suffering. Keeping myself occupied with daily work was my way of dealing with it,” he said.
 
 Gave birth to twins 
 
 Ramya (name changed), in her late 20s, was diagnosed with a bladder tumour during a regular antenatal checkup in her second trimester of pregnancy in early 2017. Ramya refused to undergo a biopsy but was shocked when she noticed blood in the urine.
 
 Whether to continue with the pregnancy or not was the big question, as the procedure to remove the tumour carried the risk of miscarriage. She was carrying twins. She was in her 24th week of pregnancy when she was operated upon and the tumor was removed. She had a normal delivery and gave birth to twins, a girl and a boy, in July 2017.
 
 Doctors treating her said it’s a rare case. “Bladder cancer is seen among men above 50-60 years and those who smoke. This case was unique as she is a young, non-smoking woman,” said Dr  , consultant, gynaecology and obstetrics, Cloudnine Hospital, Bengaluru.
 
 
  
  
 
