Coimbatore: S R P Ammaniammal Corporation Girl’s Higher Secondary School has bagged the best green campus award, beating 34 other schools nominated for the honour. And the credit goes to the students, who have to plant a sapling on the campus on their birthday. They also have to water them during the lunch break or physical education class.

 “We all love trees and we have a group of volunteers from National Service Scheme (NSS) and National Cadet Corps (NCC) to maintain the trees,” R Swati, Class VIII student of the school, said. 
 
 The school was awarded on Wednesday at an event held at Brookefields Mall under the aegis  .
 
  As many as nine schools, two of them corporation schools and the rest private schools, were awarded at the function in different categories for maintaining green campuses.
 
 “The Kovai Green League was launched in 2016 and that year we awarded six schools. This year, we have increased the number of schools to nine, besides adding more categories. Innovative methods, creative measures and waste management practices were also awarded,” said the marketing manager of Brookefields Mall, Sujatha Murthy, who organised the league in association with World Wildlife Fund and Bosch.
 
 Chinamaya International Residential School was also awarded in the green campus category. Many schools, including Sri Jayendra Sarawathy Vidyalaya Matric Higher Secondary School, had created a micro forest using Miyawaki method and G K D Matriculation Higher Secondary School was awarded for having the maximum number of native trees inside a school campus.
 
 Adwaith GNS Matriculation Higher Secondary School featured a navagraha garden and a place surrounded by a dozen native species for meditation, increasing the green cover of the campus. The Camford International School was not only green, but also clean. “The school was awarded for the best waste management practice as it not only segregate the waste but also create wealth from waste,” Sujatha said.
 
 The volunteers, who formed the Kovai Green League, had organised various workshops at all the city schools and conducted a survey with the students. “We looked into various aspects such as knowledge of students on nature and environment, alternate energy sources utilised, environmental awareness campaigns held, bird count in the campus, waste management techniques and activities of the eco club to finalise the awardees. This is mainly to ensure that students become aware about environment conservation as they are the future of the country,” said Samuel Victor of Bosch.
 
 
