Women bikers in richly coloured nauvaris (nine-yard saris), phetas (head gear), nathnis (nose rings), gold jewellery and dark sunglasses took over the roads of Girgaum on the morning of  . It is one of the many shobha yatras (cultural roadshows) that mark the New Year celebrated by Maharashtrians. Thousands of people from Dadar, Vile Parle, Malad, Thane and Dombivali thronged Girgaum, at the biggest and the oldest rally in Mumbai. Dressed in traditional costumes and jewellery, men, women and children were seen enjoying or participating in the traditional music and dance fare, which began at 8 am and continued till late afternoon. With saffron flags raised, the numerous troupes, participating in the rally, performed dhol tasha, lezim dance and mallakhamb. The rally also saw tableaus as part of the procession. The major attraction, however, was the bike rally by women, which added a burst of vibrant colours to the already spectacular rally pulsating with energy.

  
 
 
 The women bikers riding bullets make a striking picture in colourful nauwaris, nathnis and pagdis. Like they’re almost showing you how to strike a balance between the tradition and modern with 
 pizzazz and confidence.
 Crazy about bikes, Vedantee Chaudhari, a 20-year-old student of architecture, waiting to take part in the cultural parade. “I think it’s in our blood. I’ve been watching the procession since I was five. I always wanted to ride a bike like those girls participating at the rally. And when I finally did, it felt amazing. The first time I did that, I wore my grandfather’s Tilak pagdi instead of the traditional pheta, which many admired. The following year, I wore the Bajirao Mastani pagdi, then the Jai Malhar pagdi and this year, I tried Shivaji Maharaj’s jire top. My mom submits all the forms and does all the preparations for me. People like to see the girls riding bikes and leading the procession. Even my relatives come from afar just to see the rally.”
 
  
 
 
 For Tardeo resident, Shweta Ambre, 24, it was her husband Pragnesh Lad, 27, who persuaded her to participate in the bike rally. “My husband trained me to ride the bike for the rally between December 2015 to March 2016. He made me practice till I was confident enough. In fact, this is my third year at the rally. Earlier I was an introvert, but after participating in the rally, my confident levels have increased.”
 Proud of his wife, Pragnesh says, “I wanted Shweta to be part of the rally as most middle-class women don’t take interest in such things. I wanted her to enjoy the freedom you feel while riding at the rally; this also encourages other women in the process.” Adds Shweta smilingly, “Pragnesh plays the dhol as I ride. He comes to my side, every now and then, to click pictures with me.”
 
  
 
 
 It’s common to see women playing the tasha (a flat drum played with two bamboo sticks) alongside men at such rallies. One such participant is Pooja Pawar, 22, who’s a pharmacist by profession. “I got inspired by my brother, who is a tasha player and joined the   four years ago. For the first two years I played the dhol, but now I play the tasha. Housewives, students, businessmen and professionals are part of the pathak. We take time out to rehearse for three months, since we are passionate about putting up a great act on the day of Padwa,” says the Girgaum resident. 
 Admitting that carrying the heavy dhol or tasha is a bit of a problem, but Pooja and many like her, have learnt to navigate it smoothly. “We tie the shela (shawl) inside our nauwari, which protects us. Frankly speaking, we don’t feel anything, but excitement during the procession,” she shares.
 
  
 
 
 This is one rare procession, where you’ll find men willingly taking a backseat to the women. In fact, they enjoy watching their women folk basking in the spotlight. “My dad and brothers are part of the audience at the parade. All of them, especially my dad who has encouraged me to ride the bike, are proud,” shares Vedantee, adding, “When senior ladies participate in the procession, their husbands take care of the kids as the moms ride the bike or play the dhol-tasha. Since the parade ends around 3 pm, men help out with distributing food packets, water and buttermilk, as we are at risk of dehydration in the harsh heat.” 
 
  
 
 
