PUNE: “This is going to be my Saturday evening routine from now on,” said 19-year-old Himani Singh, who was clearly having a time of her life at the   on Saturday. And she is not the only one.

 
 Hundreds thronged the second week of the extremely popular street festival, which has returned as an evening carnival, at the Baner-end of the Balewadi High Street.
 
 The obstacle cycling track was a particular hit among the cycling enthusiasts of all ages, who were all kitted properly in high-visibility vests and helmets. As a simulation of an extreme biking experience, the track was punctuated by cones and other objects to create obstacles and twists. And the track's popularity is only increasing by good word of mouth publicity.
 
 “I heard about this cycling track from a friend who had visited last week,” said   S, who was attempting the track along with her daughter. “In a way, this cycle track provides the feel of mountain-biking thanks to the various twists and turns,” she added.
 
 A little further ahead — beyond the display of robotics, drones and a fierce tugof-war between the young and the not-so-young ones — two magicians had at least 40 children enamoured with their tricks, making everything from stones to boxes disappear. Even after the magicians had finished their routine, the children were not ready for the magic to end.
 
 At the reading corner, the quieter ones had settled down with their books. The corner also doubled up as a library. Right next to it, others tried their hand at chess on a near-lifesize board. Along with adults, several children were also seen lining up to get their faces and hands tattooed. Many sat around the instructor at the drum circle — conducted by the acclaimed   — and learnt traditional Indian and African rhythms. At the same time, slam poets belted out lines with gusto. Some of the older attendees even tried to reconnect with the music of their times by performing freely on the live stage.
 
 At the end of the course was the Bollywood stage. The dancers on the stage encouraging the crowd — mostly children and youths — to sway to Bollywood hits.
 
 Even as the evening drew to a close at 8.30pm, visitors were heard making plans for their next Happy Street visit.
 
 Happy Streets is an initiative of  , in association with the Pune-Municipal Corporation, Pune Police, and is powered by Kasturi.
 
 
