Kolkata: Like many other manufacturing majors across the globe, Motorola India, too, has discovered the re-emergence of touch-n-feel buying experience among its customers and embarked on taking a big leap in retail for the next level of growth. 

 Sudhin Mathur, MD, Motorola Mobility India, told TOI: “In the last three-four years, we have been an e-commerce-strong player. Now, our philosophy is to play in all the markets. The holistic sales is part of our strategy. The next level of our growth will come from retail. Offline sales would soon contribute to 50% of the company’s total revenue.” In India, 30%-35% of cellphones are sold online, while around 70% of Motorola’s total sales comes from it. 
 
 Motorola on Thursday opened 25 “Moto Hubs” here targeting a third of its sales from its organised outlets. Besides, large-format stores and mall hubs, the handset giant has plans to open 1,000 such stores across 100 cities by this year. Each Moto Hub will showcase the entire Motorola smartphone and accessories portfolio, including the just launched smartphone Moto Z2 Force and Moto X4.
 
 On why Moto Hub will become a ‘key differentiator’ for the company, Mathur said, “We have already been there in all sorts of online sales. On e-tail platforms, I can’t show a prospective buyer how hard tough my phone is. At the Moto Hubs, I can drop a handset in front of a customer and we have received an overwhelming response.” 
 
 On the ‘shipment vs real sales number’ debate, the Motorola India head said: “At the end of the day, what is important that you are handing over a handset to a prospective buyer. We look at the consumer trend and what are they buying.” 
 
 According to him, companies, even the traditional ones, who were selling handset brands exclusively in one channel (online or offline) are testing the other channel. “But, I don’t think e-tail overtaking the retail business soon,” he said. Lenovo (Including Motorola) ranked 4th with 5.6% market share in the fourth quarter of 2017, followed by Xiaomi (26.8%), Samsung (24.2%) and Vivo (6.5%). According to GFK, east contributes 15% of the total smartphone retail sales in India (7million units a month). Kolkata has emerged as the 6th biggest smartphone city in India with a market size of 1.5 lakh units per month.
 
 Mathur said both Motorola and Lenovo brands are in double-digit growth figures. 
 
 On the industry-cum-value point of view, handsets worth Rs 10,000 to Rs 20,000 are giving fastest growth (15%). “Most interestingly, Rs 20,000 and above category is growing at 27% and sub-Rs 10,000 is declining by 30%,” added Mathur.
 
 
