AHMEDABAD: Here’s another version of ‘Discovery of India’. Everything – from religion to mathematics, judiciary to literature – was discovered in India, claims Class X   board social science textbook.

 The first chapter titled ‘Heritage of India’ says religion, language, literature, mathematics, judiciary, legislation, and environment protection were all, as it were, made in India!
 
 A paragraph on page number 3 in the first chapter titled ‘Heritage of India’ of the book reads: “...language, script, the discovery of zero, mathematics, calendar, astronomy, iron, literature, religion, yuddhashashtra [treatise on war], chariot, political science, zoology, botany, vastushashtra (treatise on vastu), religion, republic, judiciary, legislation, environment protection etc. are the important discoveries of India.”
 
 Historians say this is self-praise, not history.   awardee and noted historian, Professor   said: “Religion and other things like language, literature, judiciary are nobody’s discovery. The claims made in the book are fantasies not history. This has been done just for selfpraise, an attitude which is bad for education, as critical approach is always better than adulatory."
 
 The board’s enthusiastic outpouring has resulted in another blooper in the same chapter and on the very same page where “seeing” has been replaced by “peeing" while referring to pride associated with the rich religious and cultural heritage of the country.
 
 
 
 The board, which is under fire for committing mistakes regularly, makes another Himalayan blunder when it asserts that `Islamism' is a religion. In chapter 7, ‘Preservation of Our Heritage’, a portion on page number 57 of the book reads: “India is a secular country. India is a land of multi-religious (sic); influence of Hinduism, Islamism, Buddhism, Jainism, Christianity etc. is seen in Indian culture.” It needs mention that Islam is a religion while Islamism, according to the Oxford dictionary, means “Islamic militancy or fundamentalism.” Education minister   said: “I am not aware of this but I will ensure that any mistake in the state textbooks will be rectified at the earliest.”
 
