HYDERABAD: In a cause for concern, many babies admitted in the neonatal   (NICU) are bombarded with third and fourth generation antibiotics right from their birth. About 50 per cent of neonates admitted in NICUs in hospitals across the country, including Hyderabad, are given at least one powerful antibiotic while a quarter of them are administered more than one powerful drug, reveals a research study. Simple antibiotics are rarely prescribed for even common ailments.

 Indiscriminate   in NICUs builds up resistance against diseases right from infancy and when the baby grows up, the body will not respond to most potent drugs. This is because doctors have already experimented on babies with powerful drugs in NICUs. 
  
 The first of its kind multicentre research study involving hospitals, including those in Hyderabad, reveal how drugs are misused. The results of the study conducted by senior researcher G Sumanth and others were published in the latest issue of the International Journal of   (IJID).
 
 “About half (51.6 per cent) of NICU babies received at least one antimicrobial agent. Amikacin was the most commonly prescribed antimicrobial agent followed by meropenem. The recommended first-line antimicrobial agents, ampicillin and gentamicin were rarely prescribed for community acquired neonatal sepsis,” the researchers said. The research was conducted as part of the Global Antimicrobial Resistance, Prescribing, and Efficacy in Neonates and Children (GARPEC).
 
 About 400 babies from different hospitals, including two hospitals from Hyderabad, were studied. It was found that 208 (51.6 per cent) babies were given one or more antibiotic. Of these 208 babies, 155 (74.5 per cent) received antibiotic drugs for infection. “For community-acquired sepsis, piperacillin-tazobactam (17.5 per cent) was the most commonly prescribed drug. A combination of ampicillin and gentamicin was prescribed in only two babies,” the study said adding that antimicrobial resistance is a natural phenomenon but is “accelerated by overuse and misuse of antimicrobials”.
 
 “A recent review of antimicrobial resistance among bloodstream infections in neonates and children showed that the median gentamicin resistance rates were 75 per cent for pneumonia and 55.6 per cent for E coli.
 
 The World Health Organization (WHO) and the Indian National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) recommend the combination of ampicillin and gentamicin as first-line empiric therapy for community acquired neonatal sepsis or pneumonia. However, we found that this combination was rarely used in the hospitals that participated in our study,” the researchers said.
 
