JAIPUR: Chief minister   has hinted at focusing the election year budget on farmers and tribal welfare during a pre-budget meeting held on Saturday. Following Central government’s budget, Raje asserted that the state budget will also aim to double the farmers’ income by 2022. The Union government in the budget 2018 has announced to double the farmers income by 2022.

 The defeat of   in two Lok Sabha bypolls—Ajmer and Alwar and one Vidhan Sabha seat in Mandalgarh has put the government on the back foot. And being the last budget of the incumbent government, Raje is under pressure to live up to the expectations of the people. The farmer suicides last year due to debt and unable to sell the produce especially in the Hadoti region has angered the farmers. 
 
 Raje met farmers, dairy sangh and cattle owners along with representatives of tribal leaders at the conference hall of the CMO before the pre-budget meeting. “I am happy that farmers have not asked for any extra help other than to continue the reforms in the farming sector. It shows that they are content with the efforts taken by the government. The suggestions given by the farmers will accelerate the efforts of the state in attaining the target of double income by 2022,” said Raje.
 
 She informed that state will accelerate efforts to encourage farmers for adopting technical intervention in their traditional farming practices. "The technological intervention will decrease the cost of production and increase the production. State is holding   at divisional headquarters to achieve the said aim,” said Raje, who noted the recommendations and suggestions 
 
 Other than the technical intervention, Raje has plans to bring more land under the irrigation. She said that Eastern Rajasthan Canal project will bring a much greater relief to the 13 district frequent to droughts. Under this project the river water which goes waste will be used for irrigation,” said Raje. The meeting was attended by the council of ministers, representatives of different boards and commissions, chief secretary NC Goyal and principal secretaries and secretaries of different departments.
 
 Most of the departments urge to increase the budgetary allocation along with the submitted a list of election year sops to included in the budget. The date of budget is not yet announced. 
 
 
