PATNA:   State Disaster Management Authority (BSDMA) vice-chairman Vyas Ji said on Friday quake security clinic ( ) like the one at the National Institute of Technology Patna would be constructed in all the engineering colleges of the state and in all the 38 districts from March. 

 The BSMDA-sponsored weeklong mass awareness drive on quake security is scheduled to start on January 15. ‘Nukkad natak (street plays)’ dealing with the theme would be performed in selected localities and schools.
 
 Addressing a press conference here, Vyas Ji said the construction of the QSC in the Sursand block of Sitamarhi district has already begun while the same would be opened first at Muzaffarpur Institute of Technology (MIT) among engineering colleges of the state. 
 
 At Patna, the programme would also be marked by painting and slogan inventing competition among 500 schoolchildren, besides the staging of mock drills by national disaster response force (NDRF) and state disaster response force (SDRF) teams regarding quake security on the premises of prominent buildings on their respective selected dates —   (January 15), Vidhan Sabha, Vidhan Parishad and Vidyut Bhawan buildings (January 17), PMCH, Telephone Bhawan and St Karen’s School (January 18), Niyojan Bhawan (January 19) and RPS School (January 20).
 
 Besides, 20,000 identified masons would be trained in quake-resistant designs through master trainers. Altogether 2,000 engineers working in the government departments would also be trained. The training of the master trainers has already started. The mass training programme would involve an expenditure of Rs28 crore, which has already been sanctioned by the cabinet. 
 
 Elaborating on the QSC, he said priority would first be given to eight districts which fall in the zone-V on the quake map and are also most vulnerable to quake shocks, followed by 24 districts falling in the zone-IV. The remaining six districts fall in the zone-III that suffers relatively less intensity of quake shocks.
 
 The zone-V districts, close to the highly vulnerable Nepal border, are Sitamarhi, Madhubani, Darbhanga, Saharsa, Supaul, Madhepura, Araria and Kishanganj. The Asian and Indian tectonic plates clash in the   which cause quake shocks, Vyas Ji said.
 
 The 24 districts of the zone-IV, marked by less intensity of quake shocks are East Champaran, West Champaran, Sheohar, Saran, Siwan, Gopalganj, Muzaffarpur, Vaishali, Samastipur, Begusarai, Khagaria, Purnia, Katihar, Bhojpur, Patna, Jehanabad, Nalanda, Nawada, Sheikhpura, Lakhisarai, Jamui, Munger, Bhagalpur and Banka. 
 
 
