Pune: Various NGOs pushing for permanent solutions to the city’s increasing traffic problems feel that the parking policy deserves top priority to make the roads user friendly. They have, however, warned that only approving parking rates will not help unless a separate department is set up to ensure proper street marking, adoption of appropriate technology, data collection and analysis.  “Parking management is a highly technical issue and will require induction of staffers with appropriate skills. The current set-up and the old methods of managing parking are inadequate. These issues have to be addressed. Increasing parking charges only cannot benefit the traffic situation,” said Prashant Inamdar of NGO Pedestrians First in a joint statement issued here. “There is undue fear that Punekars will oppose higher parking charges. But if people get better managed parking, they will not mind,” said Sujit Patwardhan of Parisar in the statement.  “Chaotic parking and halting vehicles near junctions and on bridges cause traffic jams. Parking on footpaths and cycle tracks and near bus stops affects pedestrians, cyclists and also public transport. A proper parking management and strict enforcement will be beneficial for all road users”, he added. Pune has had paid parking facilities on some streets, which resulted in less encroachments and smoother flow of traffic. “Conflicts over parking are escalating day by day and we have even seen some people getting killed in such incidents,” said Ranjit Gadgil of Parisar.  “There is a need to have clarity on where people can and cannot park and whom to call in case of a dispute. The parking policy should lead to all streets having proper marking, signboards and parking management. We hope that party leaders will also insist on these reforms, along with the increase in parking rates,” he added. “Parking charges will encourage users not to park for long duration, which can help the streets to improve parking turnover by which the same available parking spot can be used by multiple vehicles in a day. Technology will help the parking management to be efficient and transparent,” said Pranjali Deshpande of Institute for Transportation and Development Policy.