AMRITSAR: Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee ( ) has openly come in support of   (MML), a political front of Mumbai terror attack mastermind Hafiz Saeed.

  PSGPC general secretary Gopal Singh Chawla not only extended support to MML but also held party’s convention at Nankana Sahib, birthplace of founder of Sikhism Guru Nanak Dev, on Saturday.
 
 Sources in the intelligence said Chawla played a key role in organising an MML convention at Nankana Sahib, which was attended by Hafiz Saeed and MML president Saifullah Khalid. Sources added that the convention was primarily held to garner support of Sikhs in Pakistan for the ensuing general elections in the country.
 
 “We have reports that Gopal, Saeed and Saifulla spewed venom against India and tried to stir up emotions on the name of Kashmir and Khalistan,” said sources.
 
 Not only the election commission of 
  in the first week of April, also the 
  on its list of foreign terrorist organisations. 
 
 Sources added that care was taken to not photograph Hafiz, who has $10 million bounty on his head by the US, during the convention.
 
 Sources added that Chawla not only extended warm welcome to the outfit’s leaders but also assured them support of the Sikh community to their candidates. Chawla’s close relation with the terror mastermind is not hidden as in the past also he had posted his pictures with Saeed on his social media account. 
 
 The convention at Nankana Sahib happened a couple of days after Abdul Rehman Makki, brother-in-law of Saeed, reportedly used objectionable language against Guru Nanak during a rally held at Multan. None of the PSGPC leaders had condemned Makki’s objectionable uttering against the Sikh guru.
 
 The MML was founded by Saeed in 2017 to give a cover to Lashar-e-Toiba (LeT) and Jamat-ud-Daawa (JuD), both banned terrorist organisations, after Pakistan government began crackdown on terror network under international pressure.
 
 A Peshwar-based Sikh leader, who didn’t wish to be named, said that only a handful of Sikhs, especially those living in Nankana Sahib and Lahore, favoured the MML. Most of Pakistani Sikhs were against LeT and JuD, he added. 
 
 
