PUNE: For almost five decades now,   wada at   has been 70-year-old Bhalchandra Yeolekar’s home. In the gentle comforts of the 200-year-old wada, Yeolekar and his brothers — the third set of owners of the historic buildings — have raised families, made memories and seen the city change around them.

 “Three of my brothers and I moved into the wada about 40 to 50 years ago. Since then, nothing has changed inside. A municipal school used to be located on the first floor, which was shifted once we claimed the wada. All of us brothers, and our families used to reside in the wada. Now, it’s only me, my wife, my nephew and his family,” says Yeolekar, who resides on the ground floor of the structure.
 
 Through the thick and thin, the wada was a constant haven of safety and comfort. “The courtyard at the centre used to provide us with sufficient light and air during the day. The mud walls kept the interiors cool even during the hottest summers,” Yeolekar recalls.
 
 On the outside, the Yeolekar wada continues to stand tall — its facade unaffected by the vagaries of time. Beautiful railings with Queen Victoria’s image still hark back to its glorious past. But the wada’s stately exterior hides the decay inside.
 
 Today, the cracks are beginning to show. The same mud walls are no longer as effective. The residents had to install fans 15 to 20 years ago. A dilapidated flight of stairs on the left, shaky stone tiles in the courtyard and construction material piled up at the rear reveal that the wada is in dire need of restoration.
 
 Due to the wada’s current plight, the younger generation wants to do away with the old structure to make way for a new building. “The structure has weakened. During the monsoon, the roof leaks. We sought permission for restoration, but we are allowed to restore the wada only from the inside. A new building would make life more comfortable here,” says Yeolekar.
 
 But that is not possible, as the wada is an ASI-protected structure and cannot be demolished.
 
 Yeolekar says, an earlier permission had been granted for reconstruction of the wada, but it was granted for the construction of a building as tall as the existing wada. “The new building was supposed to be shorter in height than the Shaniwarwada. However, no new permissions are being given now,” Yeolekar adds.
 
 So the residents really have no choice other than continuing to live in a building that is undeniably magnificent, but after 200 years, is untended, unsafe and unpredictable.
 
 
