NAGPUR: Stray dogs are the ones who are often feared, and shooed away. But there are people in the society who love and care for them. And their benevolence was on display as 30 puppies and two adult dogs were adopted at a camp organized by   (SSO), near Sandipani School, Hazari Pahad, on Monday. In these men the dogs found their caretakers, and a home to lead a normal life. 

 The street dogs roaming around in the vicinity were registered by people while a few were rescued by SSO for the camp. In all, 70 dogs were kept ready for adoption. 
 
 Speaking about the adoption process,  , member of SSO, said, “People who adopt dogs have to fill a form and submit their identification documents. We also provide them pamphlets that give basic information about how to take care of dogs. But our job does not end after handing over dogs as we visit them every month for a year and verify whether they are being looked after well or not.”
 
 During the camp, those aspiring to adopt dogs were given information about their grooming, laws that are meant to prevent cruelty to animals, street dog sterilization procedure, para-veterinary training and emergency contacts to report injuries or sickness of the canines. 
 
 Namrata said many people are really cruel towards animals, especially street dogs, which is a punishable offence. A vigilant society, aware of laws for protection of animals, can help punish cruel people. Such measures can prove effective in containing bad elements when it comes to protection of animals, she said.
 
 Smita Mire, founder of SSO, told TOI about the concept of ‘Virtual Parents’ under which the people who love dogs but cannot pet them for some reason can contribute by sponsoring their food and required medicines. They can even take them home for a day or two, she added.
 
 Smita said, “Breed dogs are generally preferred by people. What they fail to understand is that a street dog is much convenient and cheap to pet. They need just two vaccinations and de-worming once in six months. On the contrary, the breed dogs need frequent deworming and vaccinations. Besides, the street dogs adapt well in Indian climate and need no special food or nurturing requirements,” said Smita. She urged people to help these creatures by giving them a permanent home and starting off the New Year with a noble deed.
 
 
