MOHALI: The local administration and police are set to crack down on drug peddlers in the district with active involvement of residents, teachers, government officials, officers and college and university students. Residents will be trained to carry out sting operations and called drug abuse prevention officers (DAPOs), said   deputy commissioner Gurpreet Kaur Sapra. She said the project will be taken up in co-ordination with Mohali police and be under her supervision. Around 100 volunteers have already pledged to join the team, said Sapra.

 She said, “Volunteers will undergo formal training to check and curb the drug menace. They will be in direct contact with police control room while on operation and backed by police officials. Their job will be to inform the police so that quick action can be taken.”
 
 The DC said she had already held a meeting with SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal and directions issued to constitute a district-level team.
 
 Sapra said, “In Mohali, the teams will be formed at ward levels. SDMs will be chairpersons of sub-division level mission teams. Any person above the age of 18 years not having any case registered against him or her and is not a drug addict can become a DAPO.”
 
 She said the project will be formally launched by Punjab chief minister   on March 23, the martyrdom day of Shaheed Bhagat Singh at  . The oath-taking ceremony will also be held the same day. Functions regarding this programme will also be organised at sub-division level and universities and colleges of the district.
 
 The DC said 50,000 DAPOs would be made and proforma regarding it can be downloaded from website www.sasnagar.gov.in and submitted at Saanjh Kendras, SDM offices. Last date for registration is March 22.
 
 STING OPS 
 
 50,000 volunteers to be trained as drug abuse prevention officers in first phase
 
 Will be in direct contact with PCRs and area SDMs
 
 Will be backed by police officials
 
 To be equipped with hidden cameras and recording systems at a later stage
 
 
