KOTTAYAM: The body of a   was found abandoned in a canal in Thenmala in Kerala's Kollam district on Tuesday. It was the body of Kevin P Joseph, 23, hailing from SH Mount in Kottayam, which was found in Chaliyakkara canal near Thenmala. Police suspect that the youth was murdered and the body was left in the canal.

  
 
 The body was found hours after the bride Neenu Chacko, 21, had filed a case against her brother and another 10 persons for kidnapping Kevin and his relative Aneesh from the latter’s residence in Kottayam.
 
 Kevin along with his relative Aneesh (31) were kidnapped by a gang that broke into their house near Kottayam around 1am on Sunday. Last week, he had married Neenu after a two-year courtship. She was studying in a college in the district and had incidentally met Kevin.
 
 After hearing about their wedding, her relatives filed a complaint at Gandhinagar police station and police had summoned both families to the station. The woman then left with Kevin. He and Aneesh then moved her to a hostel in the locality fearing her family. Police said the gang was sent by the woman’s family who did not favour the alliance.
 
 At the same time, Aneesh – who is under treatment at the medical college hospital – gave a statement that the gang took him and Kevin by force and later dropped him at Samkranthi near Ettumanoor.
 
 Police said that the kidnapping happened after the woman’s mother and a relative had come to Kevin’s home on Saturday morning. Nobody met them that day.
 
 The gang arrived in three vehicles and kidnapped the youth and Aneesh, who were the only occupants in the house at that time. The gang broke into the house with weapons through the back door, threatened them and took them in two different vehicles. The whole house was ransacked in the process.
 
 The gang straightaway went to Thenmala. During the journey both were beaten up. Police said the gang stopped in Thenmala after Aneesh complained of vomiting. The gang then claimed that Kevin had escaped from the other vehicle. Aneesh was later dropped back at Samkranthi in the Innova used by the gang. Meanwhile, relatives of the youth then filed a complaint at Gandhinagar Police that both Kevin and Aneesh were missing. The injured Aneesh went to the police station and gave his statement before he was admitted to the medical college.
 
 Meanwhile, the parents of the girl also gave a complaint that their daughter was missing. Based on the complaint, the woman was produced in court by the police. She was then shifted to a protection centre. Police are trying to locate Kevin now.
 
