MYSURU: Aspirants for medical and dental seats in the city have a reason to cheer: the Central board of   (CBSE) has decided to hold the National Eligibility Entrance Test-Undergraduate ( ) in  , thereby ridding city students of the hassle of having to travel to Bengaluru to write the examination.

 The NEET-UG notification issued by the CBSE states that the examination will be held in nine cities across the state – Bengaluru, Mysuru, Belagavi, Davanagere, Udupi, Mangakuru, Dharwad, Hubballi and Kalaburagi. In 2017, students from the Mysuru region, which includes Mandya, Hassan, Chamarajanagar and Kodagu, were allotted examination centres in Bengaluru.
 
 Students, teachers and administrative officials of colleges are chuffed with the CBSE’s decision to hold the key   in Mysuru. Kautilya PU College vice-principal Deepak told TOI that the move would particularly benefit students in the rural areas. “It’s not easy for students in villages to travel all the way to Bengaluru. The examination centres are established in many places across Bengaluru, and students struggle to find them. So, the news that CBSE will hold the exam in Mysuru is most welcome,” Deepak added.
 
 Students, meanwhile, heaved a huge sigh of relief on hearing the news since it meant they no longer have to worry about travelling to Bengaluru just for the exam. “The NEET-UG exam has been scheduled on a Sunday, and it is not easy to travel to Bengaluru during the weekend given the traffic. We need to reach the examination centre by 8am to complete all formalities. Moreover, searching for the examination centres is another problem,” said Soujanya, who is writing the exam this year.
 
 An officer for the department of pre-university department lauded the CBSE’s decision, which he said would help students, not only from Mysuru, but also other neighbouring districts.
 
 Sources in the CBSE said that the board had decided to offer NEET-UG papers in Kannada. “Students can be given NEET question papers in   if they come forward and ask for them,” said an officer.
 
 
