LUDHIANA: Two people were   and 32 others received serious burns after an LPG   exploded in a house at Samrat Colony, Giaspura, on Thursday morning. The injured included five minors and 10 women. The condition of at least 12 persons was critical. 

 The deceased were identified as Sunita, 40, wife of house owner Ashok Yadav, and her 13-year-old son Raj. Ashok and his daughters Kajal (19) and Pooja (20) were critically injured. The injured have been admitted to different hospitals. Two persons have also been referred to the PGI, Chandigarh.
 
 It all started when Sunita went to the kitchen around 6.40am to make tea and breakfast for the family. Bhushan Singh, an area resident, said as she lit the gas lighter, the cylinder pipe caught fire due to leakage. As Sunita's clothes caught fire, the family raised an alarm, attracting people's attention.
 
 People from neighbouring houses thronged the house with water buckets and sand to help the family. Though family members managed to bring the leaking cylinder outside the kitchen, resumption of power supply (there had been power cut in the area since morning) triggered a blast in the cylinder. The explosion led to the collapse of a wall in the room. The main door of the house also was damaged in the process. 
 
 Another area resident Joginder Pal said family members and others inside the house received serious burns. He said the neighbours had come to help the family but they too became victims.
 
 Meanwhile, the injured were taken to the civil hospital in the PCR and private vehicles of police officials. The fire had been controlled by the time fire brigade department reached the spot. The area people and family members of injured condemned the fire brigade for reaching the site after a long delay.
 
 Amandeep Singh Brar, station house officer, Focal Point police station, said, "PCR cops first got the information and reached the spot. But by the time we reached the area, no ambulance had reached the accident site. So we decided to take the injured to hospitals in PCR and private vehicles."
 
 According to latest updates, yet another person, Shahi, wife of Yashwant succumbed to her injuries at GTB Hospital on Friday. Her husband Yashwant is also among the injured and is kept under observation. It is third death in the incident. On Thursday mother son Sunita and Raj had also died. 
 
