PANAJI: More than 700 mothers have donated their breast   at the state’s first human donor milk   at   and hospital over the past six months, helping hundreds of   admitted in the 40-bedded neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) who are unable to get their own mother’s milk.

 The donor human milk, which is pasteurized, is the next best option to breast milk and has come to the rescue of infants whose mothers are not lactating enough either due to stress or some illness. 
 
 
  
 
 Out-born babies, that is babies born in other hospitals and referred to GMC, also benefit from this milk, especially in cases where they are separated from their mothers who are still recouping at the hospital where the delivery happened. Such referrals are seen from Karwar, Kolhapur and other areas across the border.
 
 The hospital’s lactation counsellors, besides requesting mothers to donate milk at the bank, also encourage them to breastfeed their own babies.
 
 “When mothers don’t try and express their milk and don’t empty their breast completely, negative signals are sent back to the brain which results in reduced milk output. A mother then feels she is not lactating enough and this leads to a vicious cycle, if not broken,” says assistant professor, department of paediatrics, GMC, Dr Kavita Sreekumar.
 
 Breast milk is natural, free of cost and the best gift a mother can give child. The benefits over formula feed are innumerable. Children who are formula-fed have higher mortality and morbidity rates and a poorer long-term outcome, she says. “Breast-fed babies are less prone to asthma, allergies, hypertension, diabetes and obesity later in life. The human milk bank is an attempt at having a baby-friendly hospital that discourages formula feed,” Sreekumar adds.
 
 Both the donors and families of the recipients give their consent in writing first. Mothers are screened and once eligible to donate, visit the milk bank next to the NICU and express milk with the help of breast pumps. Senior staff nurse   enforces strict hygiene standards in the milk bank and finds that more mothers are slowly warming up to the idea of donating their milk to help other children and to prevent breast engorgement. 
 
 Inaugurated in August last year, the human milk bank was set up at the initiative of professor and head of department of paediatrics, Dr Maria Silveira, under the national rural   mission and following all human milk banking guidelines.
 
 
