KOCHI: Malayalis are rarely considered to be overly aggressive. Barring political violence, Kerala is not known for extreme violence that usually rears its heads in the northern states. But for a state that is ranked 19th in India by national crime records bureau ( ) after perusing murder data, there lies some unpleasant questions in the form of gruesome killings within family. The most recent one was reported from Kollam last week, where a mother allegedly killed her teenager, chopped off his hands and set his body ablaze.

 But killing within families is not new. Experts said that repressed anger might be the reason for this sudden display of extreme violence within families.  , a social scientist with Jamia Millia Islamia University in Delhi, said anger against a particular person or event is directed towards another person when someone is incapable of expressing it towards the real source of anger.
 
 
 “This phenomenon can be termed as a transference of anger and a reason for violence in families. The dominated can’t do anything against the oppressors and hence that anger is repressed and it flares up later,” he said.
 
 Kochi-based psychiatrist Dr CJ John said diminishing family bonds is one key reason. “These could be considered an extreme expression of the same anger that is seen in domestic violence cases and marital rapes. Malayalis are passive aggressive; we see their aggression and impatience during a routine traffic snarl. You give vent to your feeling before your family and it can be negative and positive. It is easy to get angry with a person we know than some random stranger,” he said.
 
 Quaiser felt that women were now becoming more assertive. “More women are finding ways and means to express their anger. This transference of anger is not directed against the source of their anger. Hence, it is directed on persons who are immediately accessible,” he said.
 
 “Women running away with their paramour or conspiring with him to murder their husband or kids can be seen as an expression of this anger, which is otherwise impossible to express. This happens because women are unable to express their wish of abandoning her marriage. The absence of freedom and their non-confrontational attitude could be other reasons for this anger,” Quaiser added.
 
 The expert felt that the absence of an outlet to channel anger is another key link. “Lack of struggles or mass movements, like workers or farmers movements which used to be a method of channelling anger is not prevalent. Repressed anger will contribute to transference of the same,” he said.
 
 Psychologist and director of Central Institute of Behavioural Studies, Cochin Dr KS David said when a gruesome crime occurs, there is always a tendency to make it a case of insanity. “It is not uncommon for persons to have slight mental troubles. But, that won’t lead to gruesome crime. Drug abuse, lack of students’ organization to channel their anger can be the reasons for anger seen in families. A criminal act should not be cloaked in insanity,” he said.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 On May 25, 2016, Chengannur resident Joy V John (68) was shot dead by his son Sherin
 
 (36). The IT professional cut his father’s body into six pieces and abandoned them in various parts of Kottayam and Alappuzha. Sherin told the investigation team that he longed for his dad’s support and wealth. “My father had a special corner for my brother and sister since childhood. He always ignored me, questioned my financial dealings and used to beat me. He would give them everything. I was furious when he threatened to donate his properties to charity and keep me away from my rightful share. I had no option,” he said.
 
 
 
 On December 25, 2017,   (22) allegedly murdered his mother Deepa (50) and set her body afire. The BTech student was the youngest ward of a broken family. He lived with Deepa at Ambalamukku; his father Ashok and elder sister were expatriates. Deepa was estranged from her husband. Akshay had a doubt that his mother was seeing someone and this led to her murder. Police suspect that his substance addiction and broken family life could have influenced the murder.
 
 
 
 
 Former Thiruvananthapuram district judge V Shircy chose a modified version of Shakespeare’s line (All the perfumes of Arabia will not sweeten your hands) while pronouncing   and her paramour   guilty of two murders. They victims were the former’s infant daughter and mother-in-law. The judge said Anu Shanthi was a ‘disgrace to motherhood for conspiring to kill her own blood for lust’. Mathew was awarded death sentence for his crimes whereas Anu Shanthi was given a life sentence. The murders were committed in April 2014. Mathew’s actual plan was to kill Anu Shanthi’s husband and his family. However, he managed to escape. His father was saved as he was not at home.
 
 
 
 
 Reminiscent of the sensational Amityville murders in 1974, Cadell Jensen Raja (29) brutally massacred his father, mother, sister and mother’s aunt at home in Nanthancode in April 2017. He used a hatchet to kill and mutilate his victims so that he could burn them in his bathroom. This led to a fire outbreak, following which the murders came to light. Medical experts ruled that Cadell was mentally unfit. The psychiatrists who treated him said that he was taunted persistently for being an underachiever by his academicallybrilliant family members and this led to his mental illness.
 
