PUNE: Prakash  , a zilla parishad teacher in   in   cluster in Bhor taluka, was the first person in his village to study till standard XII.

 Once the school had 16 students, but migration and family planning means fewer heads in the village and a poor enrolment in schools, Parthe said.
 
 The school was set up as a vasti shala in 2001 __an alternative education system that may or may not have infrastructure__ which caters to a small hamlet. It was converted to a ZP school in 2008 when there were 16 students.
 
 “Earlier, only men would go to the cities to work. They would leave behind their wives and kids. But now, entire families move out. If couples move out, there won’t be children in the primary classes,” Parthe said.
 
 The hamlet was located on a lower portion of land but had to move to an area uphill after the Nira-Deoghar dam was built. Sarubai   doesn’t know her age and is illiterate, but she comes to the school every day to cook mid-day meals.
 
 “I have two sons and they have two kids each. Both moved to Mumbai after schooling to look for jobs. One is a mechanic and the other is a driver. This is the story of the entire village. But young couples who stay back suffer as their kids walk in the sun and the rain to a school far away. If it is forced on them, they will all migrate,” Sarubai, whose husband Vitthal passed away last month, said.
 
 The nearest ZP school up to standard X is 10km away and the nearest junior college, 13km away. The need for education is felt much more now, but children of landless labourers and extremely poor families feel the heat.
 
 “For landless labourers, money is short. Many times they take their children to work in the fields with them or to look after younger siblings. If students stop coming for two days or more, I have to meet parents so that they come back,”Parthe said.
 
 The conveyance allowance will not help as there is no guarantee that the money will be used for travel to school. “A family may spend it on necessities rather than education. The government should climb down its high horse and understand the ground realities. Only then will they understand the importance of a school in small hamlets and the impact it has on the children and families,” a villager said.
 
 There are two teachers and seven students in the school. Another villager said instead of shutting down the school, only one teacher must be placed in schools with less than 10 students. “The schools are given non-salary grants. If the government thinks it is not economically viable, they should cut down on the grants given every year to these schools and make it need-based or one every two years,” the villager said.
 
 ZP teachers in villages also double up as music, dance, drawing teachers. Parthe is often interrupted by the cook while teaching his class. “She is afraid of firing up a gas stove, so I have to do it for her,” he said. He then tunes up his harmonium for a singing session with his students. Teachers in other villages have painted the school or its floors to boost learning.
 
 
