MALAPPURAM:   Rajendran, who was re-elected as the   state secretary, said that   assembly election results have proved that CPI’s political suggestion was a step in the right direction. Rajendran said that Left, democratic and secular forces should stand together to counter BJP and Sangh Parivar forces.

 “In Kerala, we think that we can easily defeat BJP. The same assurance was disproved in Bengal and later in Tripura. Election results proved us wrong. Then, how can we stand alone against BJP at the national level?” he asked. Rajendran reiterated that CPI was not seeking an electoral alliance with Congress in Kerala, but at the national level despite the different views nursed by both parties.
 
 Responding to a question over Pinarayi Vijayan’s claim that such an alliance will lead to loss of credibility, Rajendran replied that 18 LDF MPs had backed UPA-I regime at the Centre after defeating UDF candidates in LS poll. “We should realize the necessity of alternative politics to counter BJP and Sangh Parivar forces,” he said.
 
 Rajendran said BJP’s vote share will see a decline in the upcoming   assembly bypoll. The present situation is different from the political situation during LS poll in 2014 and assembly poll in 2016. BJP managed to garner support due to their strong anti-corruption campaign then. Now, Modi government is facing corruption allegations, he added.
 
 Rajendran said CPI will take steps to end murder politics in Kannur. “We are against murder politics.   and some other parties are trying to tarnish the image of the party by raising baseless allegations regarding the party’s involvement in the murder of a Muslim League worker in Mannarkkad. Police have already ruled out the political murder angle,” he said.
 
 Talking about the controversial suicide of an expatriate in Kollam after a group of AIYF worker planted flags in protest against the person’s new workshop, Rajendran clarified that protest was the duty of responsible youth as land filling is a non-bailable offence. The party will legally fight the case against its cadres,” he said. 
 
 On the government move to withdraw the assembly brawl case, Rajendran said the decision was taken by the home department. Government cannot go forward with the decision by issuing an order and court will take the right decision, he said.
 
 Talking about the adverse remarks against senior leader K E Ismail in the control commission report, the state secretary termed it usual procedure. If a person has a different opinion, he or she can approach the central commission, he added.
 
 
