Six babies and two toddlers undergoing treatment at the   (GMCH) have died in less than two days. 

 The deaths were reported between May 20 and May 21. Two of the children were just a day old and four of them less than a month old. None of them were born at the GMCH but brought there for treatment. Four children have died within 24 hours of hospitalisation, hospital authorities said. 
 
 Following the alarming number of deaths, the GMCH dean called for a report on the number of patients, their diagnosis and treatment from the paediatrics department. The report was submitted by the paediatrics department on Tuesday morning. 
 
 Deputy dean   said the children were under the care of senior doctors and six were on ventilator support. Some of the cases were of very low birth weight (VLBW) and septic shock, he added.
 
 Associate professor Trupti Joshi, who holds additional charge of the paediatrics department said all eight patients were born outside the hospital. "Eight deaths in 32 hours is not a regular statistic but it is not abnormal either," Joshi said.
 
 The paediatrics department's report states that six children aged less than 30 days were "serious when they were reported to the hospital. Two of the patients (one-year-olds) were suffering from pneumonia." 
 
 "All patients were provided with the required disease management without any delay. Doctors of all cadres saw the patients. Four of the patients died in less than 24 hours of their admission to the hospital," Sukre said, quoting the report. 
 
 According to the report, the babies of Pranav Shahane, Sharmeen Saeed, Pooja Gadling, Yasmeen Shakeel Shaikh, Pallavi Balu Jadhav and Meenakshi Ganesh More were kept on ventilators.
 
 The statement issued on Tuesday evening by GMCH dean   said the patients were admitted in "a serious, infected and at a low birth weight. All patients were provided treatment according to their conditions". 
 
 Paediatrician Roshni Sodhi, who has her private practice in the city, said septic shock with sepsis along with VLBW in premature babies, bronchopneumonia with respiratory distress and high nitrate dehydration are fatal conditions.
 
 "In such cases, we give our best shot but they come with guarded prognosis. We cannot say that there is no survival, but sometimes the best of antibiotics and treatment does not receive any response," Sodhi said.
 
 
