BHUBANESWAR: Field-level personnel of the forest department's wildlife wing have left for the three tiger reserves of   to gather knowledge about habitat management and monitoring. 

 The exercise is aimed at upgrading the skills of field personnel of  , before shifting the three pairs of tigers from Kanha, Panna and Bandhavgarh tiger reserves. Satkosia will get the six predators in the last week of April.
 
 "A lot of technical knowledge is required to oversee the management of a habitat where six tigers from other sanctuaries will be released. Since the predators are yet to fix their territory, the field personnel need to learn the details about their behaviour. They also need to know how personnel in the Madhya Pradesh sanctuaries are monitoring the movement of big cats," said principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) Sandip Tripathy.
 
 The forest department is yet to disclose the particular portion of the core area in Satkosia where the big cats will be released. The location will never be disclosed. This should be kept secret as far as practicable even after release of tigers, said a personnel, who is part of the team that has gone for training. Officials said the tigers might be tranquilised by experts in their parent sanctuary for smooth transition. 
 
 Forest officials said the pairs of tigers they have selected will adapt to Satkosia forest sooner than the ones that have a comfortable territory. 
 
 The tigers will be transported in phases, said Tripathy, adding that the standard operating procedure (SOP) will be followed during transportation. 
 
 Earlier, 78 families from   village located in the core area of Satkosia were shifted to pave way for the relocation. 
 
 A team from the   also visited Satkosia and found it suitable given its atmosphere, forest cover, meadow and prey density. The process took seven months after the forest minister Bijayshree Routray in October 2017 wrote to his counterpart in Madhya Pradesh to provide the tigers. 
 
 
