Launched in September 2012,   is a monthly rating index based on several measurable parameters, including the stars’ Box-Office performance, their ability to stay in the news across print, TV and online, their brand endorsements, and their popularity among fans on the Internet and social media. These are taken cumulatively to assign the actors a final rank called the ‘T Score’. Times Celebex is a scientific and robust ranking system based on data collected from 60+ publications and 250+ TV channels, making it the first ever ranking system for  . We have put together the stars’ ranking for the month of November 2017.

  is not called King Khan for nothing. The month marked his birthday, and also key professional alliances as an actor and a producer. 
 
 
 
 Sushant Singh Rajput leaps from 43rd rank to 24th rank
 Rajkummar Rao leaps from 34th rank to 17th rank 
 Irrfan leaps from 24th rank to 14th rank
 Sidharth Malhotra leaps from 13th rank to 5th rank
  leaps from 15th rank to 7th rank
 Akshaye Khanna leaps from 58th rank to 41st rank 
 
  
  
  grabbed national headlines for a string of controversies around the period drama, 'Padmavat' and its first song, 'Ghoomar'.
 
 
 
 Vidya Balan leaps from 26th rank to 2nd rank 
 Sridevi leaps from 23rd rank to 15th rank
  leaps from 8th rank to 3rd rank
 Kriti Kharbanda leaps from 38th rank to 29th rank
 Katrina Kaif leaps from 42nd rank to 39th rank 
 Aishwarya Rai Bachchan leaps from 44th rank to 40th rank 
 
 
 
 
 
 : While Race 3'' went on floors, he announced his brother-in-law Aayush Sharma’s debut. 
 
  There was buzz around his brimming 2018 calendar that includes films like 'Padman' and 'Gold'. 
 
 : He was in the news for his upcoming films and receiving an award at IFFI, Goa. 
 
  He made news for his performance in 'Ittefaq'. 
 
  His appearance as the menacing Alaudin Khilji in 'Padmavat’s' promos and his endorsements made news. 
 
  The buzz around 'Padmavats' promos, and his next film’s announcement made headlines. 
 
  He completed Shoojit Sircar’s 'October' in 45 days and took on 'Sui Dhaaga' as his next. 
 
 : He gave the final nod to 'Super 30, the biopic on mathematician Anand Kumar. 
 
  The fourth film in the 'Golmaal' series, 'Golmaal Returns', kept the cash registers ringing. 
 
  The promos and songs of 'Tumhari Sulu' brought the spotlight back on her. 
 
 
  She continued to shoot her films, TV show and endorsement films in the USA. 
 
 
  Apart from completing 'Raazi', she gave fitness and travel goals to her fans. 
 
 
  Her performance in 'Ittefaq' was appreciated by fans and critics. 
 
 
  The buzz around her impending wedding to beau Virat Kohli grew thicker by the day. 
 
 
  She started shooting for the third outing in the 'Race' franchise with Salman Khan. 
 
 
 After the success of 'Golmaal Again', she plunged into 'Sandeep Aur Pinky Faraar'. 
 
 
  The pictures from the set of 'Veere Di Wedding' and her love-life were talked about. 
 
 
 : After a schedule of 'Saaho', she began prep for Saina Nehwal’s biopic. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
