NAGPUR: The efficacy of Ayurveda, the ancient system of medicine, has been proven beyond doubt as it treats a disease by finding its root cause so that it does not recur. On the contrary, the modern medicine and other methods are based more on symptomatic treatment, said Rama Jayasundar, professor at the department of NMR and MRI facility, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, on Friday.

 She was speaking on ‘Ayurveda: Antiquated or state of the art?’ at Scientific Society Hall, at a programme organized by Vigyan Bharati ( ).
 
 Jayasundar has been doing research on the findings of MRI applications and the oldest system of medicine to establish their co-relation so that patients could get best of both the pathies. 
 
 She spoke on vata, pitta and kapha, collectively known as the three ‘doshas’, which is the foundational concept in Ayurveda. ‘Doshas’ are the energetic forces of nature and functional principles which help in maintaining the balance of a human body. ‘Doshas’ are essential to physiology as each of them has different elemental compositions and specific set of roles to play in the body, she added.
 
 Talking about the Ayurvedic perspective of a human body, she said, “Ayurveda treats the root cause of a disease so that it should never recur in life.”
 
 Addressing the gathering, Bhushan Shrikhande, president (R&D), Baidyanath Pvt Ltd, said that Ayurved is 5,000 years old and is a time-tested method of medication. The present times are a bit challenging, but the future is bright as the western medicine does not have treatment to all the diseases. Even the World Health Organization (WHO) has published papers that highlighted the importance of Ayurveda, he added.
 
 Dhanraj Gahukar, director, Arogyam Panchkarma Hospital, congratulated the organizers for holding such an event that imparted knowledge of Ayurveda to people as it is essential at a time when the modern medicine is at its peak. 
 
 Jayasundar also replied to the questions asked by people and removed their misconceptions.
 
 The other speakers included sah-sarkaryawah of RSS Krishna Gopal and assistant commissioner of food and drugs administration Pushpahas Ballal. 
 
 Those present included Dr Satish Deopujari, Sanjay Wate, secretary, Vibha, and Shankar Tatwawadi, besides researchers and academicians.
 
 (Reporting by Syed Ali) 
 
 
