Ludhiana: Despite directions from the Punjab and Haryana High Court for clear movement of the fire tenders and arrangement of fire hydrants at the Feroze Gandhi Market, the civic authorities seem to have have shut their eyes. 

 The fire lane remains encroached all throughout the day as the parking contractor asks people to park their vehicles in that lane. The hydrants which were installed in the market a few years ago are rusted and fire officials claimed that these are not functional. 
 
 In case of a fireduring the day, it would be difficult for the fire tenders to reach the spot and control the situation due to congestion in the market. Though civic officials had installed the boards in the market designating the lane for movement of fire brigade vehicles but vehicles could be seen parked everywhere. 
 
 People visit this market frequently because of offices of several banks and other private sectors. The visitors coming to the market too feel there is need to uplift the haphazardly parked vehicles and other encroachments. A trader and resident of Pakhowal Road Nikhil Garg said that space left for the passing of fire tenders should be kept empty so that there should not be any problem in time of emergency but here picture is totally different. 
 
 The sub-fire officer, Srishti Nath admitted that it would have been a tough task to control situation if incident would have happened during day time. He said the fire hydrants are there in market but they did not find them functional. 
 
 In the past, there have been several incidents of fire in the market. A fire had broken out in the basement of Swani Motors at Feroze Gandhi market due to short circuit on May 26, 2010. Similarly in another incident a generator was set on fire due to sudden short circuit though in these incidents no loss of life or property was reported but there is need to streamline the system. 
 
 Meanwhile the MC Commissioner Jaskiran Singh claimed, “We keep on streamlining the parking in the market but there is major issue of parking and people park their vehicles in the fire lane. We will also check the fire hydrants in case these are not functional we will repair.” 
 
 HC directions ignored 
 
 The HC had directed MC in March 2010 that water supply should be ensured in the market within three months, four hydrants should also be installed at separate places and space for fire tenders be earmarked in the market. Though authorities installed the boards in March 2011 but they never bothered to keep a check in the market.
 
 
