Of late, a white coloured motor-bike zipping across the streets of  , has been creating quite a buzz. The headturner, prominently displaying the number ‘19’ on the front, is making everyone stop and wonder – is it a racer? Is it a  ? Turns out, it’s neither. “It’s not a dirt or  , but a   bike,” says its owner, 21 year old   when we ask him about it. 

  What might come as a surprise to many is that the third year Mechanical   customised this bike all by himself! He gave his father’s old   a whole new look. “My father works for the Navy and my grandfather was an instructor at the Industrial Training Institute, so I have a good industrial background to back me up,” he grins. “I have always wanted to own a kickass bike. My father was ready to buy me a costly new one, but somehow the idea wasn’t very satisfying. Soon I realised then that I already have what I require in my garage and all it needs is a facelift.”
 
  The CD 100 that Amith customised is not just his first bike; but was his father’s first bike as well. “This beauty is 26 years old and I learnt riding on it. It’s highly efficient and its engine is in tip-top shape. Before the mod, it would run at 65 kmpl, but now it gives 72! It even goes up to 80kmph easily on a 100cc engine,” he says proudly. “Everyone made fun of my bike because it is old. But it is extremely comfortable to ride and I could not let it go. Even my dad moved on and bought a new one six months ago, but I thought now this bike is beautiful on the inside, why not make it the same outside.”
 
  So over a span of 34 days, Amith customised the bike’s body by building its seat, mud guard, handle and also custom-painting its tank and rest of the body. “Everything was done in a budget of Rs 21,000 because I bought the spares and fabricated the body myself. I kept the engine, fuel tank and suspension as they were. The throttle response is still the same,” he says. He even compares it to a diamond. “Now people recognise it for what it is – a diamond in the rough.”
 
  While Amith made some of the customisations at home, his father helped him rent out a garage for the welding works. “I revived the bike’s lost glory and today people click pictures of it. I don’t feel pride per se, but as a biker, it feels really good. It doesn’t stop here for me though. After my engineering, I want to study masters in automobile   so I can learn to build a bike on my own and not just customise its body,” says Amith. He reveals he kept the engine intact because he did not want to ‘spoil it’. “It is strong engine-wise and I did not want to tinker with it. Right now, I only know how to design bikes and customise them so that’s what I did. But after learning all about engines, I want to build a bike of my own,” he says. 
 
  But where did the love for bikes and customisation begin? “I gained the knowledge needed from my grandfather and of course, my college. Right from childhood, I would pull out fans or tubelights and tinker with them. My father was sceptical about my plans at first, but my grandfather was confident. Of course, my father did end up allowing me to customise his bike. My mother was so happy to see the end result that she burst into tears. My father too took it to his workplace to show it off to his colleagues,” he says. 
 
  Amith claims he has always been a fan of ‘motion’. “It all started with a cycle, I was extremely happy riding one till I learnt how to ride a bike in 5
  grade. I can’t even explain the feeling. Whenever I need to calm myself down, I take the bike and go for a ride. The air blowing on my face helps. I’m not criticising cars but when you ride a bike your soul moves. Everything is in motion when you’re riding and it’s a beautiful sensation,” he says almost philosophically. 
 
  “I can’t tell you why I love riding so much just as I cannot tell you why I love my mother. I just do! You have to concentrate on a bike and I’ve never concentrated on anything as much in my life, I am just an average student, you see. It’s the same for me when it comes to music,” he reveals. “I play guitar and I love hard rock and metal, but I can’t explain what music means to me.” 
 
  Ever since Amith customised his father’s bike, he says that many people have approached him, asking him where he got it done. “When I tell them I did it myself, they ask me to customise theirs too. But I haven’t taken up any orders yet because I’m still a student,” he says. 
 
  “I want to set up a customisation unit in   after my masters. My dream is for everyone to own a custom-made bike. At least everyone in Vizag for a start, and then maybe the rest of AP and Telangana,” he says. The most-satisfying thing for Amith is the attention his bike gets when he takes it out for a spin. “Men and women both look at it and wonder where I got it. That is beyond what I had imagined. I guess, people have the love and curiosity for bikes somewhere deep in their minds. Maybe it comes naturally.”
 
  But Amith’s dream doesn’t end at customising bikes for AP and Telangana alone, he adds. “Foreign bikes cost a bomb in Vizag. So I want to make beautiful and affordable bikes right here! I want to make bikes so good, that even people from abroad will want to buy them. I won’t rest without achieving this goal. I want to build at least one bike that people will covet,” he rounds off with optimism. 
 
