HYDERABAD: Lending credence to the cries of citizens that the authorities are blocking the inflow ways of several lakes by laying roads and building walls and pathways around them in the name of ‘restoration and development’, the Hyderabad High Court on Friday stayed all construction activity around Malkam Cheruvu in the Raidurg area near Hi-Tec City.

 The bench of acting Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice K Vijaya Lakshmi gave this interim direction while hearing a petition filed by senior   officer Anjana Sinha, who is a resident of the nearby Timber Lake Colony’s Water Front Apartment.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The bench issued notices to and sought counter responses from the principal secretaries of the state’s irrigation, revenue, municipal administration & urban development (MA&UD), environment and forest departments as well as the chief secretary, GHMC commissioner, Hyderabad district collector,   MRO,   commissioner, Pollution Control Board ( ) and   and   along with a few others.
 
 GHMC has entrusted the task of ‘restoration and development’ of Malkam Cheruvu to Aparna Constructions.
 
 In her plea, Anjana Sinha, an AP cadre IPS officer, brought to the notice of the court the ongoing concretisation of Malkam Cheruvu in the name of development.
 
 Landfills are being created and stone walls and other concrete structures being constructed within the full tank level (FTL) of the lake, blocking the inflow and outflow ways of the lake, reducing the purity and shrinking the volume of the lake besides endangering its very existence, she said in her plea.
 
 Arguing the case on behalf of the IPS officer, her counsel Anjana T Reddy said that in the name of beautifying lakes, the authorities are building parks and pathways right inside lakes, destroying them in the bargain.
 
 Though several respondent authorities like chief secretary and officials of MA&UD, revenue, PCB and others are part of lake protection committees, ironically, in reality, their actions are contrary to their specified roles, the counsel for the petitioner said.
 
 On earlier occasions too, petitions were filed challenging the decision of the authorities to lay roads and pathways around the lake by removing the rocks and hillocks around it. The HC had, in 2016 and 2017, stayed all construction within buffer zone and FTL areas of the lake, the counsel for the petitioner said.
 
 Not convinced by the varying replies of the   state counsel, who at one stage said they were merely removing weeds and later conceded, upon being confronted by photos of constructions, that they were taking up the construction ‘only for Ganesh nimajjan purposes’, the bench stayed all ongoing construction activity at the lake for two weeks and sought counter replies from the authorities.
 
