AMBALA: The panel doctors reviewing the case of the 13-yr-old rape survivor of   have stated that she was 24-week pregnant, instead of 22 weeks as reported earlier. They have now refused to recommend abortion, citing the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act does not allow abortion of foetus post 24 weeks.

 The doctors claimed that the earlier ultrasound report which claimed that foetus was 22-week-old was incorrect.
 
 According to information, when the panel of doctors, including three gynaecologists, thoroughly studied the case and conducted the ultrasound again, it found the foetus was already 24-week-old. Fearing risk to the life of the rape survivor, who, the doctors said, had low haemoglobin and was being treated for anaemia.
 
 To complicate matters further, the survivor’s family is still untraceable and members of the child protection committee in Ambala cannot file a plea for abortion in the court without the consent of the main guardian.
 
 Meanwhile, sources revealed that the survivor, who was recently informed about the pregnancy, was under trauma and had also attempted to escape from the hospital to commit suicide on Tuesday.
 
 “We cannot recommend abortion as legally it is a crime. The foetus is 24-week-old. We are looking into the case seriously and doing our best as the girl was claiming she wanted to end her life. Moreover, the girl is anaemic. Hence, performing any surgery is a threat to her life,” said Ambala chief medical officer Dr  .
 
 Ambala child protection officer   said, “The girl was counseled about pregnancy and abortion. We cannot file any plea in the court as we need the main guardian to give consent for that. Mother of the girl could not be traced or contacted yet. Her parents’ mobile phones are switched off. We have written to the police to trace the girl’s family members so that we can pursue her case in the court for abortion because the foetus is 24-weeks-old. I have no reports about the suicide attempt but the girl made an attempt to escape from the hospital today. We are deciding whether she should be sent to nari niketan (women’s shelter) or somewhere else where she can feel comfortable.”
 
 
