PATNA: Chief minister   left for Japan on a four-day visit along with an 11-member team on Sunday. The CM is accompanied by road construction department (RCD) minister  , officials and members of trade and industry bodies. The team will visit Tokyo and Osaka.

 “The CM, RCD minister and some officials left for New Delhi by a service flight around 2.35pm on Sunday. Other members joined them in New Delhi from where they flew for Tokyo,” a CMO official said.
 
 The state government officials accompanying the CM are chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh, principal secretary (RCD) Amrit Lal Meena, principal secretary (industries) S Siddharth, principal secretary to CM  , secretary to CM Atish Chandra, officer-on-special duty to CM Gopal Singh, IPS officer   and investment commissioner-cum-managing director, BIADA, R S Shrivastava. 
 
 Bihar Industries Association (BIA) president K P S Keshri and former   president O P Shah will represent industry and trade bodies in the delegation.
 
 “During the visit, the delegation will showcase investment opportunities in Bihar to attract prospective investors and financing agencies. They will make presentations to invite investments in sectors like industries, tourism and infrastructure,” Yadav, who is lone minister in the 11-member delegation, said hours before leaving for New Delhi.
 
 He said the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) is already providing a financial assistance of Rs 3,000 crore for development of the Patna-Gaya-Dobhi and Gaya-Rajgir-Biharsharif four-lane road projects. “We will make presentation to seek their assistance in few more road projects connecting the places related to Lord Buddha,” he said.
 
 “Japan, a Buddhist country, is interested in making investments in Bihar because it is the land of Lord Buddha’s enlightenment and there is a large inflow of pilgrims and tourists from there,” said a tourism department official.
 
 Earlier in the day, several JD (U) functionaries called on the CM at his residence here and extended good wishes to him for his Japan visit. Prominent among them were the party’s national general secretary (organisation) and Rajya Sabha member R C P Singh, rural development minister Shravan Kumar, party’s state president Bashishtha Narain Singh, Lok Sabha member Santosh Kushwaha, MLCs Devesh Chandra Thakur, Neeraj Kumar and Ranvir Nandan and State Food Corporation member Nand Kishore Kushwaha. 
 
 
