Sonam Kapoor's marriage to her businessman beau 
  may have been an intimate affair, but her wedding reception is proving to be nothing short of a big fat Indian celebration. After a solemn ceremony in the afternoon, Sonam and her husband kicked the evening off by hosting a grand star-studded wedding party that saw Bollywood’s biggest and brightest stars bring on their fashion A-game. 

  
  
 
 The newly-weds set the tone for the evening with their modern-meets-traditional look that saw Sonam in a chevron pattern lehenga paired with a grey choli and metallic dupatta, from Anamika Khanna and Anand dressed in a sharp sherwani. 
 
  
  
 
 And like the fashion-forward couple, their guest too made jaw-dropping appearances in both traditional and modern ensembles. Metallics seemed to be the theme for the night with everyone stepping up in their shimmery and chic outfits.
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 From Bollywood veterans to next-gen actors, a plethora of film stars came under one roof to join Sonam and Anand on their happy day. B-town’s biggest stars from Shah Rukh Khan, Salman Khan, Ranbir Kapoor, Alia Bhatt, Varun Dhawan, Karan Johar, Ranveer Singh, Kareena Kapoor Khan, Saif Ali Khan, Abhishek Bachchan, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, Karisma Kapoor, Rishi Kapoor, Akshay Kumar, Rani Mukerji, Kangana Ranaut, Rajkumar Hirani, Vidhu Vinod Chopra, Katrina Kaif, Shahid Kapoor, the Ambanis, Kajol, Vidya Balan, Sidharth Malhotra, Shweta Bachchan, Aditya Roy Kapur, Suniel Shetty, Athiya Shetty among many others.
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 The Kapoor family also made heads turn at the do. Boney Kapoor’s daughters Janhvi Kapoor and Khushi Kapoor looked chic in their elaborate lehengas. Harshvardhan Kapoor kept it simple, but stylish nonetheless in a suit while Arjun Kapoor rocked traditional wear for the big bash. 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 Sonam’s designer friends were also there to cheer her on at the gala event, one being designer duo Tamara Ralph and Michael Russo. 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  More celebs...
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
