CHENNAI: Staring at the empty benches in the opposition for five-long hours, the ruling   on Wednesday accused the arch-rival, the  , of “being scared of public rejection” against the backdrop of chief minister   exposing the betrayal of the opposition party in the Sterlite issue. The EPS government took pride in ordering permanent closure of the controversial plant and cancelling the land allotted to the copper smelter plant for its second expansion plan.

 The second day of the month-long session went on without any heated debate, while the treasury members availed the opportunity to speak on issues of public importance at length, as speaker   allowed anyone who raised hands for a chance. Fisheries minister   hit out at DMK leaders, including former Union environment minister A Raja, former state ministers T P M Mohideen Khan and N K K Periyasamy for granting clearances to Sterlite on various occasions. DMK leader M K Stalin, while he was industries minister, sanctioned 230 acres to the unit. “When exposed, they are scared,” the minister said.
 
 The opposition was boycotting the session as it could not stomach the government’s historic feat in the Cauvery dispute, he said. The AIADMK had to put off its scheduled state-wide public meetings for the Cauvery victory due to Sterlite protests. “They (DMK) don’t get sleep, feel loss of appetite and run for life. Nor do they have peace of mind. The conspiracies they hatched to topple the government have been defeated with the blessings of Amma,” Jayakumar said, dubbing the DMK’s allegation of lack of democracy in the House as nothing but devil quoting the scripture.
 
 The AIADMK minister alleged that the dignity and rights of legislators were denied, and democracy was dumped during the DMK regime. He recalled the infamous attack on   in the assembly way back in 1989. The ruckus of the opposition during the February trust vote saw Dhanapal manhandled, shirt torn, and chair toppled. “Do we have such situation now? You (Dhanapal) were magnanimous, pardoned them and invited them to attend the session. They just don’t understand that,” he said. Palaniswami, who sat through the session, remained silent. And so did his deputy O Panneerselvam.
 
