CHENNAI: Despite having a functional underground sewerage system in area 7 under the   (CMWSSB), area-level officials have not given sewerage connections to residents of areas near Ambattur. Thus, emptying of sewage into the Puzhal Lake, an important source of drinking water for the city, continues, with officials turning a blind eye to the problem.

 A year since activists from   conducted an audit on the Puzhal lake, sewage is still being let into the lake as less than 2% of the homes in the area have a sewer connection. The lake suffers from encroachments too, complaints about which have invited nothing but inaction from the officials. The lake with a 32km periphery, further drowns from official apathy as conservancy workers with the corporation have begun burning garbage by the lake-side during night hours, conveniently ignored by zonal officials.
 
 “Public Works Department and corporation officials are complicit in the current situation of the lake. Instead of checking on the illegal sewer connections to the stormwater drains which finally drains into the lake, they point fingers at one another when we approach them,” said  , of   of the neighbourhood.
 
 Residents said that when they approach Metrowater, which is yet to give sewerage connections, with applications, officials refuse to collect the same. “Every time I visit the office, I have been told that online submission facility will be up in a week’s time and that they won’t accept physical applications as they don’t have enough staff to process them. It has been three months since I first began hearing that,” said Ramalingam.
 
 Residential and commercial structures from areas like Kalikuppam, West Balaji Nagar, and Pudur let their sewage into the lake through stormwater drains.
 
 When contacted, officials however blamed residents for not coming forward to take up connections. “We have conducted six camps over last two years to sensitise them on the need for proper connections. But we have not received any application,” an official said. He added that the website was facing issues in the development stage, and that it will be live by the month-end.
 
 
