KOCHI: Only one in three government schools have special teachers in  , data from the education department reveals. This gross negligence towards fine arts subjects like drawing, crafts, music and dance is happening even as the state is aggressively promoting annual cultural and sports competitions in the state level.

 
 There are only 99 special teachers for as many as 367 government schools in Ernakulam, as per a document accessed under Right to Information Act from the education department. Out of the 99 teachers, 67 are physical education, while the remaining 22 teach subjects like drawing, crafts, music, and dance across 88 upper primary government schools.
 
 In total, there are only 13 drawing and crafts teachers for all upper secondary schools in the district. Furthermore, the number of special teachers in government schools has fallen considerably in past few years.
 
 In 2015-16, the number of special teachers were as many as 104. In 2014-15, there were 121special teachers.
 
 C A  , deputy director of education (Ernakulam), said that main problem in appointing special teachers from the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan scheme is the specification on number of the students required for it.
 
 “To appoint a special teacher for art or music there should be around 100 students in the UP section of the school. We have appointed special teachers in all schools that meet the criteria. In some cases we have clubbed neighbouring schools together so that collectively there can be a hundred students for the teacher,” said Santosh.
 
 V K Prasad, state general secretary of the Kerala School Music, Art and Crafts Teachers Association, said: “Though the Union government allocates funds for the purpose of instating art teachers in schools, the education department does not utilize these funds. For many years the vacant posts created by retirements are left empty.”
 
 He said special teachers teach subjects that are part of the state school art festival but since the state infrastructure for art-related subjects are poor, students have no choice but pay huge money to pursue them outside the school.
 
 “The education department must identify what is being taught at schools during art periods. Due to the lackadaisical attitude of the education department, the value of art education has deteriorated. The government needs to look into this issue seriously and revise the art education policy of the state,” added Prasad.
 
 A senior official with education department said that ideally all schools should have an art teacher. For that the education policies must be revised.
 
