Mumbai: Two managers of the resto-bar 1Above were arrested on Monday on charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder in the Kamala Mills fire tragedy. A relative of two partners of the establishment who are on the run was also arrested.

 The Bhoiwada court on Monday remanded the two managers, Kevin Bawa (35) and Lisbon Lopez (34), in police custody for eight days. Their defence lawyer said the police had made “scapegoats” of the two managers.
 
 Mahendra Sanghavi (55) was arrested in connection with an FIR registered at Byculla police station for harbouring the partners of 1Above, said the police. He was produced before the Sewree court, which granted him bail of Rs 10,000.
 
 Fourteen people died in the fire that broke out on a terrace shared by 1Above and Mojo’s Bistro in the Kamala Mills compound around 12.25 am on Friday. Thirteen of the victims were patrons of 1Above and one was a waite. The prosecution sought 14-day police custody of the two arrested managers, saying they had knowledge about the irregularities at the eating house. 
 
 Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC is non-bailable and custodial interrogation of the arrested accused is required,” public prosecutor Sanjay Wadhwani said. “The court was convinced with my argument and sent the accused to police custody. The managers were present at the restaurant on a daily basis and had knowledge about the irregularities. Even though they helped customers during the rescue operation, that does not dilute their complicity in the crime.”
 
 The investigating team is collecting evidence and recording statements of the injured persons.”
 
 The accused were arrested on a case lodged by the BMC in connection with the fire at the two rooftop establishments, 1Above and Mojo’s Bistro.
 
 Lopez’s wife came to attend the court hearing and had tears in her eyes after the court remanded her husband in police custody. “I don’t want to say anything. You talk to our lawyer,” she said.
 
 In the first FIR in the case, 1Above owners Kripesh and Jigar Sanghavi, who are brothers, and Abhijeet Mankar have been named accused along with some others. The Sanghavi brothers and Mankar are partners in Sigrid Ospitalita, under which name the rooftop resto-bar is registered.
 
 In all, three FIRs were registered at the N M Joshi Marg police station and two at the Byculla police station.
 
 Advocate Vijay Thakur, who appeared for the two managers, came down heavily on the police.
 
 “Section 304 is not applicable against the two managers and the police could have invoked section 304A (causing death by negligence),” Thakur said. “This is not murder, bomb blast, organised crime or any conspiracy where the police require long custody of the accused. Why do they want long custody?”
 
 He said the two were innocent and demanded that they be released on bail.
 
 “What will the police achieve by arresting or harassing them?” he said. “Those given permission for the construction and the BMC officials should be booked for the crime and police should arrest the owners. The owners have been shown wanted and they will now apply for anticipatory bail.”
 
 Senior inspector Avinash Shingte of the Byculla police station said they arrested Mahindra Sanghavi, who is in the gold business, on Sunday night from his Mazagaon residence.
 
 Sanghavi’s sons Aaditya and Rakesh had been arrested earlier on Sunday on the charge of helping their cousins, Kripesh and Jigar, evade arrest. The police said the action was based on a study of the mobile phone locations of the accused.
 
 Aaditya had said that they had no connection with 1Above. The police said that according to their mobile phone network locations Rakesh and Aaditya were with their absconding cousins in the same locality. Later, they switched off their phones, said the police.
 
 The police also issued a look-out circular (LOC) notice against the resto-bar owners. Five teams from the local police and two teams from the crime branch were formed to track down the wanted accused. A relative of Aaditya claimed to be in possession of CCTV footage showing that the fire started at Mojo’s, and then spread to 1Above.
 
 After the first FIR, the next three FIRs were filed on Saturday against Yug Tuli, one of the owners of Mojo’s Bistro, and the owner of banquet hall P-22. Ramesh Govani, who controls the Kamala Mills Compound property, was named accused in all these three FIRs, but under charges of violation of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act. The fifth FIR is for harbouring an offender who is on the run.
 
 
