PATNA: The operation of private   in the city has been stopped with immediate effect. The committee which probed the allegations against the agency found serious irregularities in its operations. Patna divisional commissioner Anand   and zonal IG   passed an order to this effect on Monday.   said Patna traffic SP P K Das has been issued a show-cause notice to explain the lapses in the terms of the tender to the agency, including the realization of money and discrimination in its functioning.

 The traffic SP has been asked to use the government cranes for towing away vehicles found parked outside the marked places. He has been told to move a proposal to the police headquarters for more cranes, if needed. Kishor said the traffic police have been asked to mark parking lots in main residential areas, near shopping complexes and schools and launch awareness campaign among the residents about parking rules. 
 
 The allegations against the private agency included violation of the terms of the tender. “One of the allegations against the private player was that the major portion of the fine charged from the vehicle owners was kept by the towing agency itself and a small part of it was paid to the government, which should have been vice versa. We had also received many complaints of harassment and misbehaviour by the agency staff with the vehicle owners in the name of violating parking rules,”   Khan told this newspaper on Monday.
 
 The IG said a committee had been formed in November last year to look into the allegations against the private agency. According to the report of the committee, there were cases of towing away vehicles from even those areas where the jambusters had not been authorized to operate. “A show-cause notice has also been issued to the Patna traffic SP as to how these lapses in the terms of tender and the realization of money as well as discrimination in its operation went unnoticed,” Khan said.
 
 On being asked as to how much money the government might have lost so far, the IG it could be ascertained only after getting the show-cause reply. “As the agency operated for more than a year, the entire amount may be in crores,” he added.
 
 He said a private agency is usually awarded a contract for 11 months after which its work is assessed and before renewing the contract. “It was surprising that in this case, the agency had been awarded a contract for three years,” the IG said. 
 
 
