The accident in which a speeding private bus overturned, killing a nine-year-old kid and a teenage polytechnic student, and injuring 20 people near Srivilluputhur three days ago, has once again brought to light the poor traffic safety and the increasing violations by the drivers of private buses.

 Private route buses are known for rash driving and the authorities remain mute spectators. The plight of road users continues to be risky, as they have to contend with private buses, who rule the roads violating all the road safety rules with impunity. The accidents involving private buses are on the rise, claiming lives of innocent passengers and other road users.
 
 Many from the city are forced to abandon the single road stretches where the private route buses are notorious and they take up other roads for safety. They say that stretches such as Tenkasi Road (Rajapalayam route) Sivaganga Road, Ramathapuram Road and Theni Main Road are notorious for rash driving by private bus drivers. Many travellers take alternative routes, even if they have to shell out as toll and extra fuel.
 
 S Senthilkumar, who runs a PR agency in Madurai city, says that rash driving by the private route bus drivers is not something new. "I have been travelling to my native place in Tenkasi frequently. I stopped using the shortest route which is through Rajapalayam due to the dangerous private buses. The drivers do not respect the road rules and overtake at narrow stretches posing a risk to others’ lives," he said.
 
 Commuters like Vivek S K, a youth frequently travels between Tirumangalam and Madurai city says that the private route bus drivers don’t care about other road users. "I have had narrow escapes many times, while travelling on the Ring Road as the private bus drivers overtake at narrow stretches risking the lives of those travelling in the opposite direction. From the way they drive, their statement is clear – either get out of the road with your life or face the consequence," he says.
 
 Road users say that it is high time the authorities crack whip on these buses. "It is not going to help in any way punishing just the drivers. There should be a mechanism to deter the bus owners," said V Velmurugan, a cab owner.
 
 Not just the road users, the workers in the Ring Road expansion works are constantly facing threat during the work hours. "Both the private bus and government bus drivers do not slow down on seeing the people at work. The private buses are worse," said a worker.
 
 When contacted, an official from the road transport department said that they had been taking action against such erring drivers and their licence would be suspended for three months in case of a fatal accident. However, there is no provision in place to take action against transport service owners.
 
 Madurai District Private Bus Owners’ Association president T R S Babu says they have been periodically advising their drivers to be careful on roads. But a few of them create trouble. There is also stringent punishment in place. "The drivers involved in accidents due to his carelessness would be expelled from job and they cannot work with any owners in the district again," he said.
 
 
