HYDERABAD: Fleet-fingered, quick-witted jewel   Jayesh Ravji Sejpal, whose tryst with crime began with cleaning a Taj Colaba suite, has intrepidly dodged cops for nearly two decades. And he remains the most-wanted sketch in police stations with investigators scanning CCTV footage for more fleeting details. Jayesh who was last arrested by Agra police in 2006 and later bailed out, came close to being nabbed in Chandigarh, but wriggled out with the finesse of his heists.

 After the theft at Park Hyatt hotel on Monday, Hyderabad police began digging the criminal history of Jayesh, a Gujarati settled in Andheri, Mumbai. Police found that Jayesh has robbed jewellery from star hotels in Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Chennai, Jalandhar, Chandigarh, Agra, Bangalore, Gurgaon. “We know he has committed offences even in Kerala, Rajasthan and  ,” Banjara Hills police said.
 
  
  
 
 
 And his modus operandi is uncannily similar in all his heists — he zeroes in on affluent couples checking into lux suites and uses his charm to divert their attention before entering their room as a customer.
 
 In Radisson and Park Plaza hotels, Jayesh diverted attention of Dr   and Dr   by entering their hotel rooms with a fake complimentary breakfast phone call. “When couples go to the cafeteria for breakfast, Jayesh walks into their room and calls the reception, complaining about a faulty room key. When the staff comes with the duplicate key, he quickly enters the room and escapes with valuables. While he’s in the act, his aide Ramesh Bhanaji Chhag, keeps a watch on movements of his targets in the cafeteria,” said police. Chhag and Jayesh teamed up for the first time as undertrials in Arthur Road Jail.
 
 Jayesh used evolved his technique while robbing the honeymoon suite in Hyderabad. At Mercure Hotel in Abids, Jayesh targeted a couple attending a function. “After the couple went to attend the function, Jayesh went to their floor and called the reception, saying his wife took the original key and he needs a duplicate for access. After entering the room, Jayesh even made the hotel staff open the locker, claiming he forgot the password and fled with Rs 7 lakh worth jewels,” an inspector told TOI.
 
 In 2013, Jayesh escaped from the police dragnet after committing thefts at Radisson Hotel, Jalandhar, and Hotel Park Plaza of Chandigarh, but cops managed to arrest his aide, Ramesh Bhanaji Chhag of Malad.
 
