GURUGRAM: The Gurugram district court on Monday refused to grant bail to the   XI student detained for the September 8, 2017 murder of a 7-year-old boy inside a school campus in Gurugram’s Bhondsi area and, in fact, fined his father with Rs 21,000 for wasting the court’s time.

 The court also ruled that all hearings in the case would from now on be held in-camera, and restrained the media from not only revealing the identity of the juvenile suspect but also the victim, the school, witnesses and anything related to the investigation in the case.
 
 The additional district sessions court J S Kundu even provided alternative names to be used in reportage on the case: the juvenile suspect is to be referred to as ‘Bholu’, the Class II student who was murdered is to be called ‘Prince’ and the school where both of them studied is simply ‘Vidyalalya’.
 
 While hearing the minor suspect’s bail application, the court upheld the decision of the   (JJB) which had rejected bail for him in December last year. The court, in its 13-page order, observed that there was no ground for a default bail of the appellant at this stage. As such, the appeal was not only devoid of merits, but it called for dismissal with a cost, the judge said.
 
 The juvenile’s counsel, Sandeep Aneja, in his submission before the court, had sought “default bail” as the CBI had not completed its investigation within 30 days. “The Juvenile Justice Act demands speedy and expeditious disposal of the inquiry as well as the investigation. The present case was registered on September 8, 2017. Thereafter, the matter was transferred to the CBI on September 22 for further investigation. The juvenile was produced before the board by the CBI on November 8, and as per Rule 10(5), the investigation has not been completed within the prescribed period of one month. In the given situation, the juvenile should be given the benefit of default bail,” Aneja had argued.
 
 Puncturing holes in the view taken by the juvenile’s counsel, the CBI countered that there was no limit of 30 days for completion of investigation in cases of heinous crime. “Graver the offence, more the time to collect the incriminating evidence that has to be provided for conducting a fair trial,” said the CBI counsel.
 
 The CBI alleged that the suspect moved a “vague” bail application before the Juvenile Justice Board and the sessions court with a “hidden agenda”. It added that he wanted to divert the tract of the ongoing investigation or delay it and later apply for default bail as per provisions under Section 167(2) of the Criminal Procedure Code.
 
 The investigating agency also said the juvenile’s counsel had wasted valuable time by applying for bail before both the board and the sessions court. Two hearings in the case were held before the JJB and five before the court. “Valuable 28 days, out of the 90 days available (for completion of the investigation), were wasted by filing the appeal,” the CBI counsel said. “Appellant has indulged in wasting precious court time in baseless litigation on account of which seven court hearings have gone down the drain.”
 
 The juvenile will be produced before the court again on January 17 on completion of his 14 days’ judicial remand.
 
 While passing the restraining order on the media, the court said Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act imposed prohibition on disclosure of identity of children and made the person contravening this provision liable for punishment of imprisonment for a term which might extend to six months or fines which might extend to Rs 2 lakh, or both. It added that no report in any newspaper, magazine, news sheet, audio-visual media or other forms of communication about the investigation or the judicial procedure should disclose the name, address, school or any other particular that might lead to the identification of a “child in conflict with law” or a “child in need of care and protection” or a child victim or witness of a crime, nor should the picture of any such child be published.
 
 
