NEW DELHI: A DMK leader on Monday said that his government would have allowed students to "cheat" had it been unable to obtain an exemption from the   ( ), news agency ANI has reported.

 "If we were unable to get exemption in NEET, we would certainly allow cheating for students if we were in power. You allow copying in  , Madhya Pradesh and it's all done openly. Why? For how long will Tamilians remain honest," ANI quoted former Tamil Nadu minister KN Nehru as saying.
 
 
 
 
 The DMK MLA was taking a jibe at the current dispensation in the state, led by chief minister  , which has not yet abolished the NEET, nor given students in the state exemption from appearing for it.
 
 Most NEET coaching centres in the state's government schools are yet to receive the study material.
 
 Last month, rebel AIADMK leader and independent MLA, TTV Dhinakaran questioned the state government's inaction and silence over NEET.
 
 "Until Amma (Jayalalithaa) was around, she safeguarded the students of the state from such adversities. However, the present rulers, who rush to Delhi to solve and fulfill their own personal needs, have not cared to prevent the students from such a trouble," he had said.
 
 "As for Tamil Nadu, NEET is a big obstacle preventing poor students from the state in pursuing their medical education dreams. Either they should be exempted from appearing for NEET or the questions should be based on state-syllabus, instead of CBSE," he had added.
 
 Cheating in examinations has been a recurring problem in Bihar, with perhaps the most prominent case being the 2016 'topper scam', which came to light after a video showed the state's Humanities topper give bizarre answers to basic questions from her subjects. The Science topper, too, found himself in a similar position.
 
 This year, at least 114 students have been expelled after being caught using unfair means during the Class XII state board exam on the very first day of the papers.
 
 Recently, Tamil Nadu Education Minister K A Sengottaiyan had said that the government's policy was to get exemption from National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and it had been urging the centre continuosly in this regard.
 
 "The state government's policy is to get exemption from NEET. Continuous efforts are being made in this regard," he had said.
 
 "We have already made an appeal to the Union government to exempt students of Tamil Nadu from NEET examinations," the Minister said.
 
 
 
 
