CHANDIGARH: We have all experienced reading books — we hold the spine of the book, turn the pages and immerse into a sea-of words. But what if I tell you that in this new kind of library, books will not have pages or a slender book mark, but eyes, ears, soul and a heart?

 At  , certain people act as books, sharing life stories and lessons while being in the character of their craft.
 
 The City Beautiful is going to host the   chapter of the international Human Library organisation which will be featuring nine books for people to choose from comprising of extraordinary tales of courage, bravery, perseverance, ambition, passion, kindness among others.
 
 “We have already oraganised a Human Library in Patiala before, which garnered a phenomenal response. Ever since, many people from Chandigarh had been asking for it and even we thought we might find several inspirational books (people) in the Tricity too,” said  , organiser, Human Library Patiala and a student of Sociology at Punjabi University, Patiala.
 
 The Human Library is a concept, where instead of borrowing a book you can borrow a human being for 20 minutes or a longer period of time and hear their story, dispelling prejudices and leaving the participants with a wider perspective.
 
 The Human Library or “Menneskebiblioteket” in Danish was developed in Copenhagen in the spring of 2000 as a project for Roskilde Festival by Ronni Abergel and his brother Dany and colleagues   and  .
 
 In the first edition of Human Library in Chandigarh, as many as nine books namely Bullet Raja, The Unconventional Storyteller, The Virago, Prima Ballerina, The Right Spin, Spinach and Suave among others will be featured.
 
 “Our aim is to find books (people) with extraordinary stories of development and realisation and breaking societal stereotypes. These facets of intense human experience inspire others to learn and re-connect with themselves and others and indulge in the art of communication which we are slowly forgetting,” said Sharma.
 
 The library will open from 1pm to 5:30pm at Lumos Coco, Industrial Area, Phase 1 on April 29.
 
 
