CHANDIGARH: Imagine a three-level pristine white circular hall in the Guru   with alcoves filled with books. There would be a seating area at the centre right corner just under an atrium. Yes, this is exactly how the library to house 3,500 books, paintings and photographs donated by former Prime Minister   will look like after it is designed by a team of   (CCA). The CCA team presented a design proposal for the installation of the books to Singh on Wednesday.

 The circular hall has an atrium in the centre and five petal-shaped alcoves on each floor. These alcoves would house books on the first two levels. There would be an in-built seating area and work spaces on the third level. Since students these days use digitized books, the space on the third level would be used as a work space.
 
 “The proposal has been made keeping in mind the requirements of the space and those who would be using it. In order to use the natural light streaming into the atrium, the area around it, on all three levels, shall be fitted with workstations. There would be areas for group discussions too,” said Sangeeta Bagga, principal of CCA. The CCA team has two students —   and   — from the fourth semester and assistant professor Disha Singh. Dr Bagga is the coordinator.
 
 Besides books, there would be some paintings from the former Prime Minister’s private collection and photographs as well, which are likely to be displayed on the third level. “The books are yet to arrive. They will go to the main library and will be catalogued there. It needs custom furniture because of the space. The design has some seating space in the centre and all the books will be in the alcoves. There is a main door and then smaller doors allowing sufficient light to come in,” said Prof Reeta Grewal of the department of history.
 
 The purpose of the former Prime Minister’s visit was to see the space where his collection of books is going to be kept. He was apprised of what all is in the block including the five-year social sciences programme at   Institute of Social Sciences Education and Research (PUISSER).
 
 
