KOCHI: Giving more evidence on kidney rackets being active in the city, a 50-year-old man who used to operate centring various private hospitals in Kochi was arrested by   police on Friday.

 The alleged kidney dealer landed in police custody after a person complained that he was facing threats from the racketeer.
 
 Shaji, who hails from  , is the arrested person.  , a native of Panangad had filed a police complaint.
 
  was arrested from near a hospital at Panangad.
 
 As per the complaint, Dileep had backed out from a deal to donate his kidney for Rs 6 lakh. Then, Shaji raised life threats and the complainant approached Panangad police.
 
 Officers attached with the Panangad police station said that the racket had its presence in some of the major private hospitals in the city, but they have no evidence to link to any hospital managements yet.
 
 “We suspect that they were linked to a few hospital employees for identifying patients in need of organs,’’ said a police officer.
 
 The accused were middlemen who used to make exorbitant commission amounts from the deals. Though they used to offer six lakh rupees to the donor, they charged up to Rs 10 lakh from the receiver.
 
 According to police, two more people who are involved with the racket are absconding.
 
 “A relative of the complainant,  , had introduced Shaji to him. Another person, Thushara, is an employee of the accused. A probe is on to nab them as well,” said  , station house officer, Panangad.
 
 The case pertains to the incident when the racket got in touch with the complainant in December last year seeking his interest in donating the organ for a 12-year-old boy, who was admitted to a private hospital in Kochi. The complainant received an advance amount of Rs 15,000 and had initially agreed to donate the organ before backing out.
 
 Police said that the probe focuses on tracing the rest of the accused, which includes an employee of a major private hospital in the city.
 
 Shaji has been booked under provisions of the Transplantation of Human Organs Act, criminal conspiracy and criminal intimidation.
 
 He was produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody.
 
