LUCKNOW: Having failed to ensure   (BSP) candidate Bhimrao Ambedkar’s victory in   polls,   (SP) is now all set to ‘honour’ him with an MLC seat in an apparent bid to prove itself once again in its tie-up with BSP. The elections for 11 MLC seats are slated to take place in April.

 
 SP’s decision to honor Bhimrao Ambedkar was taken recently by party chief   Yadav. Sources said senior party leaders had already sent feelers to the BSP in this regard and were now awaiting a nod from BSP supremo  .
 
 “Our party president has said that he will take the right steps to honour the alliance and the party is willing to follow the decision that he takes,” said SP MLC Udaiveer Singh, a close aide of Akhilesh who had played a crucial role in stitching up the tie-up between the SP and BSP ahead of the Lok Sabha bypolls by galvanising the cadres to approve of coming together of the two parties.
 
 Of the 12 seats that are being vacated, SP will be able to comfortably win one. For the second seat, it will have 17 votes to spare while BSP will have 18, enough for a victory that required 29 votes.
 
 Sources in BSP confirmed that SP had offered support for any candidate that BSP chose to field, including Ambedkar. “SP has said that if BSP decides to field a candidate, whoever it may be, including Ambedkar, it will fully support us. BSP is, however, yet to take a decision in the matter,” said sources.
 
 Party insiders said that in days leading up to the RS elections, it had been decided that SP would support BSP for the Rajya Sabha seat while BSP would transfer its 18 votes to SP during the MLC elections. However, after the BSP candidate failed to get elected to Rajya Sabha, BSP Supremo Mayawati may decide to send one candidate to the  .
 
 
 “BSP had asked for 10 votes from SP during the Rajya Sabha elections. The party managed only seven votes in BSP’s favour finally, leading to Ambedkar’s loss. While announcing that the loss would have no impact on the growing relations between SP and BSP, Mayawati had made her displeasure clear when she said that had she been in Akhilesh’s place, she would have first ensured that his candidate won. While Mayawati honoured her role in the tie-up by ensuring SP’s victory in the Gorakhpur and Phulpur byelections, it is now up to SP to deliver on its commitment to this alliance,” said sources within BSP.
 
