Instead of hitting the snooze alarm this   morning, head to  . This movement, which draws 25,000 Mumbaikars on an average, transforms the city’s streets into open-air sports arenas for badminton, cricket, cycling and skating, a yoga studio, an arts and crafts hub, and a performance stage for amateur musicians. After a hiatus of two years, the   is back on a 3km stretch along Bandra’s Linking Road from HP Junction to Santa Cruz police station from 7am to 11am.

 “We’re very happy to have it back again,” says Anandini Thakoor, managing trustee of the Khar Residents Association. “A lot of requests kept coming to the residents association from people, who wanted to revive it because it was the only time that people could roam freely on the roads. It was the need of the hour.”
 
 Born in November 2014, Equal Streets—a movement supported by   —is the culmination of efforts by various NGOs, activists, architects, citizens’ associations and cycling groups who were keen on reclaiming their streets from traffic snarls and perpetual honking. It grew into a mass movement, attracting thousands and transforming neighbourhoods in Powai, Juhu and Bandra.
 
 “The objective is to have a more rational view of the roads, which are right now dominated by motorized transportation,” says Equal Streets secretary Renuka Tahiliani. 
 
 “We reimagined the streets as places where pedestrians and cyclists are given equitable space. There is a far-reaching objective of provoking good infrastructure change for the city.”
 
 Children are the biggest fans of this movement, revelling in the freedom to ride a cycle or scribble with crayon on an empty road. Over the years, though, adults have been spotted rediscovering their childhood while teaming up with their kids to play mini-tennis, football or basketball. 
 
 Many take this opportunity to teach their child a new skill like cycling, skating or chess. Gautam Bajaj’s son Mohit, for instance, picked up cycling from scratch since the initiative started. “He has improved a lot,” said Bajaj, who was racing behind the cycle to ensure Mohit didn’t lose his balance when TOI caught up with him during one of his many visits to Equal Streets.
 
 “I hope that the government realizes that there must be long-term change in the planning of our streets and mobility patterns,” says architect P K Das, a founding member of the Equal Street committee. 
 
 “It must promote sustainable modes of mobility such as walking and cycling. Equal Streets is about raising awareness and demanding that space be provided for walking and cycling and our streets need to be re-envisioned and re-planned.”
 
 
