The episode of   begins with   apologising to Kartik. But he doesn't melt down instead gets angry.   comes and says that the guests are waiting for them. Kartik leaves and Naira cries. Pungi calls her.

 Kirti looks for  . She sees Priyanka’s incoming call on his phone. Kirti wonders what's brewing in between them. Naira tells Pungi that Kartik worked hard, but everyone blamed him for a mistake. Kartik comes and hears her. Naira says he is very good in verything he does and helps her too. But still people don’t know why call him to be completely a joru ka Ghulaam. She tells everything to Pungi. Kartik gets shocked. She says that she did not want people to think ill about him and hence she made him go away from her for a while.
 
 Kartik hides. Naira says she can’t tell Kartik, he may think she is breaking his family. Kartik thinks their relation got weak. She asks whether their issues are over. Kartik says that they should give each other a break and leaves after kissing her.
 
 Naitik calls Priyanka. Kartik works and complains of headache. Naira keeps the pill box for him and sleeps. Kartik says that he is very hurt.
 
 In the morning, Devyaani says she is happy seeing Naksh and Kirti doing the boutique work together.   says even Naitik and   had some problems first. Rajshri says yes but then they understood each other well. They talk about relationships. Kartik keeps thinking of Naira's words.
 
 Naira asks Kartik if the matter between them ended. Kartik nods. Kirti thanks Naksh for helping her. He tells her to keep the cloth roll aside but she says it's fine. They leave the room and going ahead, the cloth roll falls on the paints, ruining all the clothes.
 
 Luv and Kush crib about a chewing gum stuck in their hair. Dadi says it must be Naira's carelessness because she keeps chewing gum. Naira defends herself. Naira and Swarna go to remove the gum from their hair.   and Manish get ready to leave. Kartik does not see Naira as misunderstands her for being away from him purposefully. Kartik goes to get his charger. Naira comes and sees noone around and assumes that Kartik left for the office without saying a bye. She feels bad. For more updates, keep watching this space.
 
 
