MANALI; With tourists violating the   ( ) order on   Pass and visting it at midnight, a police crack team visited the mountain pass on Tuesday to check the exercise.

 Kullu superintendent of police Shalini Agnihotri, who led the crackdowm from raided Manali to Rohtang pass, said, “We seized documents of 15 vehicles. There were complains that some permit slips had code word ‘Nati 124’ written on them, for easy access to Rohtang Pass. The matter is being investigated. Overtaking after breaking vehicle queues and drunk driving would not be tolerated.”
 
 NGT has ordered that only 1,200 tourist vehicles would be allowed to Rohtang Pass every day and that permits can be obtained online on first come first serve basis. Police found that some people, mostly cabbies, were using multiple or tampered permits. While some vehicles had fake registration number plates, some had none. Police have recommended cancellation of license of a snow dress renting out shop after it was found that it was supplying tempered permits to tourists.
 
 The SP said strict action would taken on tourists found visiting Rohtang Pass at midnight. She said even the local taxi union has been directed not to leave for Rohtang before 4am. “We shall continue to conduct such surprise checks. One special naka point will be established at Kothi, where details of vehicles will be checked before reaching Gulaba check post. We shall add some more bike patrols to the existing ones to ensure smooth traffic. Lahaul-Spiti and Ladakh bound buses, emergency vehicles, Army convoys, school buses and vehicles carrying local residents would be provided passage on priority with help of bikes and police teams.”
 
 While police is forwarding some recommendations to the deputy commissioner for better traffic managements and better compliance with NGT order, deputy commissioner   on Wednesday ordered to make highway in entire New Manali area a no parking zone. “The area from   bridge till Prini bridge will be a no parking zone. Fifteen more security personnel have been posted at Gulaba check post to strengthen its functioning and strict compliance of NGT order,” he said.
 
 High demand but limited permits to go to Rohtang was motivating most of the taxi operators and others in tourism trade to adopt illegal ways to go to Rohtang pass. This had also resulted in overcharging. There were complaints that some people were providing fake permits and many vehicles were wearing fake number plates.
 
 
