Madurai: Stinking sewage water flowing out of a man hole right in front of the Sanitary Inspector office of the ward 24, has been a common scene in the city. Located in the Mothilal Nagar main road, next to Karimedu fish market, residents say that it has not been rectified even after appeals were repeatedly made for a permanent solution. A flex installed at the office urges the residents to keep their surroundings clean to tackle the dengue spreading mosquitoes, but the officials have not taken any steps to end the overflowing sewage water issue. Hundreds of people throng the Mothilal Nagar main road road, where the busy Ramnagar market functions, throughout the day. Both the buyers as well as the market shop-keepers are affected by the never ending issue. “We are quite used to the situation. In fact, we think about it these days only when we have our food. We do not have any other choice, but to bear the smell and have the food,” said S Parvathi, a seller from the market. The sewage water overflowing issue is not confined to the market alone. It is prevalent in Mothilal Nagar main and its surrounding areas, say the residents. Residents in all the low lying areas in Karimedu face the issue they say.  “There is something wrong with the underground drainage system. It should be set right to bring about the permanent solution. The overflowing sewage water poses threat to the residents health here,” said P Kasimayan from 1st Street Residents say the integrated sanitation centre belongs to the corporation in the New Jail Road, located close to the Ramnagar Market, is no exception to this. “The foul smelling water overflowing from the tank creates a lot of problem for the users. The water with human excreta runs on the road side at least twice a week. Every time, it has to be informed to the concerned people to set the problem right. But by the time it creates enough issues,” said K Mariammal, one of the SHG members, who take care of it. When contacted assistant commissioner of zone one S Arasu assured that the issue would be sorted out in a month time. He said that there is a block in the old main sewer pipe. The plan to construct a new sewer line is underway. While the proposal for the new line has been approved and it is under the tendering stage, he said.