NEW DELHI: A 25-year-old man was arrested on Thursday for abducting and killing his teenage   for a ransom of Rs 1 crore. He had roped in his friends to take the boy, Sahil Mehra (17), to a safe house and keep an eye on him while he pretended to join the search.

 
 The accused, Pankaj, had even dissuaded his uncle, Santram Mehra, from informing police. However, the boy’s father panicked after receiving the ransom call and dialled the PCR. Pankaj then asked his friends to shoot Sahil and dump his body in a canal at Muradnagar in UP.
 
 The incident was reported at Nand Nagri police station on Tuesday evening by Sahil’s family. A team led by DCP (northeast) Atul Thakur and Crime Branch was formed to track down the abductor.
 
 The caller was found to be somewhere near Dasna and was in touch with someone from Nand Nagri directing through text messages. A police team reached the location and caught four men — Mursaleem, Shoaib, Salman and Naseemuddin. Later, a team led by ACP Subodh Goswami arrested Pankaj.
 
 During interrogation, the men told police that Pankaj had lured Sahil by promising to get him a computer game. “After getting an SMS from Pankaj to shoot the boy, the men gave him a sedated drink due to which Sahil became unconscious. They took him to a desolate spot near the canal and   him in the head. They then tied the body and dumped it into the canal,” said a police officer.
 
 Pankaj told police that he had married recently and was unemployed. He wanted to buy an apartment and plotted his cousin’s abduction presuming that his uncle was earning well from his money exchange business at Gaffar Market.
 
 Family members said Pankaj was arrested in east Delhi a few weeks ago for drinking in public. He was bailed out by Santram, who spent Rs 10,000 to settle the issue. He also often lent large sums of money to Pankaj. Cops said that Pankaj had presumed that his uncle was rich and could pay the ransom. However, he panicked when Santram called the cops.
 
 Santram used to run a mobile phone shop and had recently started exchanging money. Pankaj was his elder brother’s son and stayed with his family in an apartment in a three-storied building in I-Block of Nand Nagri. Pankaj was a drunkard and had even blown away his father’s savings.
 
 The boy’s body is yet to be recovered. A team of divers from UP government are trying to fish it out of the canal. Pankaj and his friends have been charged with kidnap, murder and criminal conspiracy.
 
 
