HYDERABAD: There’s only one day left for the deadline for distribution of pattadar passbooks and cheques to farmers under the   scheme, but over 10 lakh farmers in the state are yet to get them.

 
 Though the state government wanted to complete the exercise within one week after launch on May 10, the deadline was extended to May 20. Now with 10 lakh beneficiaries still waiting in line, the deadline is likely to be extended again.
 
 
  
  
 
 “As of now, 44 lakh passbooks have been distributed. We will close distribution of passbooks and cheques on Sunday and give one or two days time. Those who have not taken the passbooks can collect them from their respective tehsildar offices,” Chief Commissioner of Land Revenue ( ) director   told   on Saturday.
 
 Sources in the government said the state had ordered the printing of about 58 lakh passbooks. While some passbooks are yet to be distributed to districts, in some villages the revenue officials kept them on hold due to problems such as mismatch of photographs and typographical errors in name, sex and extent of land.
 
 Revenue officials said photo mismatch was noticed in 3 lakh passbooks. Several farmers too returned their passbooks and cheques after noticing errors. These passbooks need to be printed again, but revenue officials said the reprinting would be taken up only after the entire distribution exercise is completed so that there is clarity on the number of passbooks that need to be printed afresh.
 
 So far, 40 lakh Rythu Bandhu cheques have been distributed to farmers since May 10. But finance department officials said only 17 lakh farmers have encashed the amount. “Nearly 57 lakh cheques were sent to districts. Contrary to our expectations, there has been smooth encashment of cheques at banks,” a senior official in finance department said. But about 7 lakh cheques were returned or withheld due to mistakes in spellings and amounts. Such farmers have been told to collect the cheques after aweek.
 
 The state government has spoken to   to keep sufficient cash reserves in banks. It has given cheque printing and encashment facility to State Bank of India, Andhra Bank, Canara Bank, Corporation Bank, Indian Overseas Bank, Telangana Grameena Bank and AP Grameena Vikas Bank.
 
 
