AHMEDABAD: Passing by Vishala Circle crossroads, a junction between   and Guptanagar, where an invisible border between the two communities has stood since years, is a wall, which is not a wall but a metal rack named "  (wall of goodness). It is actually an attempt to bridge the gap between the two communities in the communally sensitive zone of Juhapura, India's largest Muslim ghetto, and Guptanagar, predominantly populated by Hindus. 

 This "Neki Ki Diwal" is a place where people donate clothes, shoes and other useful items for poor people belonging to both communities. 
 
 At about 12.30pm, in the scorching heat, a woman aged around 52, came there and started searching for clothes in the heap of around a thousand garments. "Please don't click my photo. I am from a good family. My husband does not earn enough and hence I have come to get some clothes for my grandchildren," she pleaded. 
 
 Usman Shaikh, an auto driver, said many people from both communities come here in the darkness of the night to donate, as well as take clothes.
 
 "Vishala Circle has been chosen by us, because it falls between Juhapura, a Muslim dominant area and Guptanagar - a Hindu dominant area, and poor and needy from both areas can take things for their use from here," said Aslam Langha, one of the core committee members of the newly formed   (ATF).
 
 Langha added that the rack has been in place for about 19 days. "People generously donate clothes and other items here. We have written on the board "Jaroor Hoy To Lai Jav, Vadhare Hoy To Muki Javo (If you need pick it from here and if you have more keep it here). Our aim is to unite the two communities who are living on the edge of these areas said Langha.
 
 It is not just about charity, said Langha, but they also solve civic problems of the locals. "Another core committee member, Nazir Patel, corresponds with local corporators, municipal authorities, chief minister's office and the Prime Minister's office (PMO) about problems. The   is prompt in replying to our mails," Langha said. ATF is now planning to extend such "Neki Ki Diwals" in other areas too. 
 
 
