NAGPUR: An anonymous letter addressed to traffic DCP S  , supposedly sent by an aggrieved traffic constable, has created a flutter by referring to scams in transfers, and other corrupt practices in the department. A copy of the letter, which also names a few senior cops, was sent to TOI too.

 The letter begins by referring to DCP Chaitanya’s assurance of taking action against traffic constables involved in malpractices. The traffic cop claimed in the one-page letter in   that the bribes collected by the constabulary from motorists are channelled up the hierarchy every month to senior officials, who also seek monetary gratification. The letter, sent to TOI through   post office last week, has underlined the fact that Rs1 lakh is being sent to a senior official while Rs25,000 goes to his deputy every month.
 
 The name of one ‘Rathod’, said to be a constable posted at a senior official’s residence, is also mentioned in the letter as the person entrusted with the responsibility of systematically collecting cash from those holding charge of various units. It also mentions that the senior officials often sideline cops who fail to comply with the monthly demands. The sender seems to have used a police department computer to compose the letter, since it uses the same fonts and writing style.
 
 In another revelation, the letter mentions the so-called malpractices involved in transfers, especially in the traffic department. The sender claimed in the letter that Rs3 lakhs is required as bribe to an officer for transfer to traffic department. Another Rs1 lakh is paid to another senior officer, who follows up the matter with the higher authorities to effect the transfer.
 
 The letter writer, making an appeal to  , claimed that he must ensure that such channels and practices of monetary gratification going to senior officials must be snapped immediately for the betterment of the force.
 
 Last month, a traffic constable was suspended after a video of him collecting Rs200 had gone viral on social media.
 
 Chaitanya claimed such anonymous letters are baseless and so are the allegations in it. “I had made it a point to tell officials, and also constabulary, not to indulge in wrongdoings. My message is clear that there is no space for corruption in my unit, and will not be tolerated for any reason whatsoever,” he said.
 
 
