BENGALURU: A week after Karnataka went to polls, four days after it threw up a fractured mandate and barely 55 hours after being sworn in as chief minister,   of the BJP resigned around 4pm- the time set by the Supreme Court for the floor test on Saturday.

 
 With numbers staying as they were on Tuesday- 104 for the BJP, 117 for the JD(S)-Congress-BSP and independents combine - and the apex court dramatically curtailing the time given to him to prove his majority to 28 hours from 15 days, Yeddyurappa was unable to make the seat arithmetic work. This forced him to resign before a floor test for the second time in his political career.
 
 This paved the way for JD (S)’ H D Kumaraswamy to be sworn in as chief minister and for the hastily-formed Congress-JDS alliance to form the government. Kumaraswamy's oath ceremony was initially slated for Monday (between 12 noon and 1.05pm, apparently on the advice of his father Deve Gowda’s astrologer). However, he later deferred it to Wednesday as May 21 is the death anniversary of Rajiv Gandhi.
 
 The assembly speaker will be chosen on Thursday. The three-day-old drama, thus, ended in a tame anti-climax after having promised to be an edge-of-the-seat thriller (although TOI in its Saturday edition had listed pre-trust vote resignation as one of the scenarios).
 
 BJP’s inability to win the vote will have national implications and will boost the efforts of its rivals to form an anti-BJP national coalition ahead of next year’s general election. Signalling this, Kumaraswamy said that invitations for his inaugural would be extended to Mayawati of BSP, Tejaswi Yadav of RJD, Akhilesh Yadav of SP, Mamata Bannerjee of TMC, KC Rao of TRS and Chandrababu Naidu of TDP. The Gandhis, Sonia and Rahul, of course, are invited.
 
 Locally, while Karnataka will have the strongest opposition in decades in a 104-member strong BJP, it will consolidate the power of the Old Mysuru region in state politics as almost all the leaders of this combine are from this segment. They also tilt the balance in favour of the powerful Vokkaliga community to which both Kumaraswamy and Congress’s D K Shivakumar belong.
 
 
 The day, though, wasn’t without drama. It started with the tired legislators of Congress and JD(S) doing the return bus trip from Hyderabad and checking into various star hotels. Congress, by midmorning, started releasing a series of audio recordings allegedly showing BJP leaders, including Yeddyurappa, reaching out to their MLAs. BJP denied these charges, including one where BSY’s son Vijayendra and another close aide were purportedly heard making an MLA’s wife an offer of Rs 15 crore or Rs 5 crore plus a cabinet post for her husband’s cooperation.
 
 In his exit speech BSY admitted that he had personally reached out to rival MLAs. “I admit that I had gotten in touch with MLAs to ensure that a stable BJP government is in power. The MLAs had even promised support but anything can happen in politics,” he said.
 
 
  
  
 
 And, then, for Congress there were anxious moments over two of its missing Congress MLAs. Mining baron Anand Singh (Vijayanagara) and Pratapgouda Patil (Maski) had vanished from the party camp soon after the results were announced.
 
 On Saturday, Patil was traced to a hotel close to Vidhana Soudha. Attempts by Congress leaders to meet him and serve the whip were unfruitful. Mining baron Janardhana Reddy’s brother Somashekhar Reddy was supposedly closeted with him. Cops were pressed into service with senior officers visiting Patil in his room.
 
 However, Patil came to the assembly escorted by two BJP MLAs but on entering, chose to go to the Congress camp. As TV screens streamed pictures of him having lunch with Congress MLAs the realisation set in that, perhaps, the game was up for BJP. The needle didn’t seem to have moved in their number quest one bit. A while later Anand Singh also appeared, accompanied by his family and Shivakumar. That drained all hope in the BJP camp. Soon, only Shobha Karandlaje, a close confidante of BSY, was seen in the visitors’ gallery, cutting a forlorn figure. With most of BJP’s senior brass by then opting to leave, she was seated next to Congress leaders Ashok Gehlot and Mallikarjun Kharge as Yeddyurappa rose to speak.
 
 The Lingayat strongman began his emotional speech looking to send a message to his supporters and party leadership, saying: “If people of Karnataka had given me few more seats, I would have made Karnataka a model state. But I am not going to get bogged down by this defeat. I will ensure the party wins 28 out of 28 seats in Lok Sabha.’’ 
 
 Repeatedly referring to PM Modi and party chief Amit Shah, he said he would continue his fight for the farmers’ rights. His 23-minute address brought applause from his colleagues and drew tears from the Udupi-Chikamagalur MP Karandlaje. BSY said Karnataka may face a midterm poll with the fall of the Congress-JD(S) coalition government and took direct jibes at both his predecessor (Siddaramaiah) and successor (Kumaraswamy). He also made it clear he had no plans to call it a day, saying, “I am still hale and hearty and have a good 10 years left in me. I will come back strongly, to fulfil the promises that I have made to the people and the farmers of the state.” The eight-term MLA and two-term MP then announced his decision to step down and drove to Raj Bhavan to submit his resignation. Earlier in the day, a deflated BJP camp and BSY put up a brave face after realising they would continue to remain in the opposition despite being the single largest party in the state.
 
 With the Congress and JD(S) numbers intact, the mood in the opposition was upbeat and positive. At 10.45am, 76 Congress MLAs with their legislature party leader Siddaramaiah arrived. JD(S) MLAs led Kumaraswamy trooped in at 11.05am. His brother, HD Revanna, a very religious man, arrived late (after performing pujas) and barefoot. While Congress MLAs were a bit jittery about the possibility of migration, they were reassured with the “professional” attitude of their troubleshooters led by D K Shivakumar. Once the ‘missing’ MLAs arrived and took oath, wry smiles and resigned expressions appeared on the faces of BJP MLAs.
 
