LUCKNOW: By building more than seven lakh dwelling units in the last financial year, Uttar Pradesh has topped the list of all states in the country under Centre’s flagship scheme   (PMAYG).

 It is a landmark achievement for the state and the   government as UP was at the bottom of the list in the previous year under   government.
 
 Addressing a press conference at media centre in Lucknow, minister of state (independent charge) rural development,   informed mediapersons that UP achieved 85% of its target by constructing 7,71,073 houses in one year to claim the top position while the national average in the implementation of this scheme for poor in rural areas has been just 34%.
 
 Moreover, the 7,71,073 houses were constructed in just nine months.
 
 Chhattisgarh and   claimed the second and third positions with 47% and 45%, respectively.
 
 PM   had launched the scheme on November 20, 2016.
 
 The states were asked to achieve the consolidated targets for 2016-17 and 2017-18 in the last financial year.
 
 Mahendra Singh said that Samajwadi Party government had denied houses to BPL people by refusing to implement the Central scheme in the state and did not avail the funds.
 
 When Yogi government came to power, the main focus of rural development department was to provide houses to the homeless and the scheme was kicked off under the supervision of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, and in just one year UP has topped all the states, said Singh.
 
 Under the scheme, more than 47,000 units were built in   and nearly 7, 000 in Varanasi.
 
 The success has motivated the state government to seek funds for over 11lakh housing units from the Centre in the next year, the minister said. Singh further said that as rural development minister he was promising that there would be no scarcity of water in   and efforts are being made on war footing to ensure adequate availability of water.
 
 The state cabinet had approved another scheme, the Mukhya Mantri Awas Yojana (MMAY), to provide houses. Beneficiaries get Rs 1.3 lakh as subsidy in MMAY, compared to Rs 1.2 lakh subsidy in PMAY.
 
 The government also said that over 1crore workers were engaged under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) in 2017-18.
 
