TUTICORIN: More than 700 people, including women from villages near   resorted to a road blockade on the   - Tirunelveli national highway opposite the collectorate on Monday demanding the immediate closure of the copper plant. They raised slogans accusing the plant of polluting the environment and causing harmful diseases such as cancer.

 The blockade affected traffic on the busy highway for more than two hours and vehicles had to be diverted to reach the city. Protesters cleared the road only after the collector spoke to them and explained the action taken by the district administration, state government and the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB).
 
 On Monday morning, villagers of Silver Puram, Subramaniapuram, Kalayapuram led by activist Fathima Babu thronged the collectorate in large numbers and wanted to meet district collector N Venkatesh. They were stopped by the police personnel who were on duty for the weekly grievances meeting at the district collectorate.
 
 But protesters insisted that they should meet the collector or he should come and meet them. They even tried to forcibly enter the collectorate main building before resorting to the blockade. Villagers of  , Therkuveerapandiyapuram and   also joined the blockade.
 
 The protest ended at around 1.30pm when the collector finally met a section of the protesters at the collectorate. After listening to their grievances and receiving their petition, he told them that he has forwarded all the petitions against Sterlite to the state government and the TNPCB is expected to come out with a good decision on it soon.
 
 Shortly after the protesters left, another group of villagers from Madathur led by activist   picketed the main building of the collectorate and sat in the parking lot in which the collector’s car was parked. Efforts by the police to pacify them and make them leave failed, as they wanted the collector to come and meet them.
 
 As the protest went on for close to 20 minutes the collector received their petition and gave them the same explanation. A group of advocates also came to the collectorate and petitioned the collector over the same issue and sought immediate closure of the copper plant.
 
 
