BHOPAL: After allocation of just 1705.36 crore for the departments of commerce, industry, employment and   in the last budget, entrepreneurs are expecting more funds for industrial development in the state this time. However, they said, with government’s focus on farmers, industrialisation is likely to take a backseat this time too.

 A sum of Rs 1,707.36 crore in 2017-18 was a small amount as compared to the budget of Rs 3749.23 crore for commere and industry department in 2016-17 when there was no seperate department of micro ,small medium enterprises (MSME). For the first time in the last budget, a separate fund was earmarked for the MSME department. Of which, a huge chunk Rs 797 crore was earmarked for selfemployment schemes, a populist scheme of the government to disburse loans to educated unemployed to start their units.
 
 
  
 VL  , principal secretary of MSME, said: “More than 30,000 people were benefitted by the scheme. All the amount was utilised for the purpose, and in fact we had demanded more from the supplementary budget to run the scheme.”
 
 Finance minister   had also promised development of industrial infrastructure in nine new industrial areas earmarking Rs 161 crore for the purpose. Industry department sources said, “The work has been taken up for all these projects.”
 
 But industrialists are not convinced. President of the Federation of Madhya Pradesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry RS Goswami said, “The government needs to provide infrastructure in the industrial areas. The cost of land is also high in the industrial estates set up by the government making it very difficult for small entrepreneurs to set up their units.”
 
 He said the government did not fulfill its promise of providing subsidies as announced by the chief minister.   of Pithampur Audhogik Sanghatan said, “A lot is required to be done to boost infrastructure in many industrial areas of Madhya Pradesh. But with focus on elections, will government have funds for industry this time?”
 
 He suspects that the government has diverted funds from the last budget to meet expenses of other populist schemes. He said for the last one year the government has overlooked the issues of input tax refund, capital subsidy, interest subsidy and VAT refund after the GST. This is leading to crisis in small industrial sector.”
 
 A day before presenting the budget, finance minister Jayant Malaiya, however, said employment and industry are the priority sectors of the government and he would allocate enough funds for the industrial sector.
 
