GAYA: Zonal IG Naiyyer Hasnain Khan on Thursday reviewed the security of the   and the new traffic plan implemented in Bodh   on Februray 20.

 As per the new traffic plan, there is a ban on entry of autorickshaws and four-wheelers in the shrine vicinity. 
 
 According to SSP Garima Malik, the zonal IG has directed the Gaya police to further strengthen shrine security and be tourist-friendly. As part of the measures to strengthen shrine security, it has been decided to set up permanent police barriers on roads approaching Bodh Gaya. Arrangement for videography at the barriers would also be made. Hotels and guest houses have been directed to strictly follow the protocol envisaging identity proof of all those staying in their respective facilities. Monasteries too have to follow the norms laid for security purposes.
 
 In order to make local cops tourist-friendly, they would be given preliminary training in foreign languages. In no case, the security protocol is to be violated. It may be recalled that the visitors are required to submit their cell phones and other electronic gadgets at a designated place outside the main shrine.
 
 Though officials are reluctant to go public on the issue of   cover for the temple security, sources say the idea has been dropped for financial reasons as the cost of maintaining about 150 CISF personnel of different ranks is beyond the financial capability of the   and the Union government is not willing to waive the CISF bill, as protected organisations including airports foot the bill for CISF cover.
 
 While appreciating the new traffic plan, the zonal IG is learnt to have directed the local officials to be pragmatic without compromising with the security requirements. The IG was informed that alternative routes were being developed to minimise the inconvenience caused to the locals. The alternative routes will facilitate the movement of vehicles in Bodh Gaya.
 
 On the issue of Form C submission, hotels, guest houses and monasteries are already under obligation for online submission of necessary information about foreign tourists/pilgrims including name, passport no, Visa reference, place of stay, purpose of visit and likely period of stay etc. Asked about the status of Form C compliance, SSP Garima Malik, the ex officio district foreign registration officer said the compliance has vastly improved in recent times and some violators of the rule have been ticked off for non-compliance. Those present at the meet included DIG Vinay Kumar, DM Abhishekh Singh, SSP Garima Malik and City SP Gaurav Mangla.
 
 
