GURUGRAM: The role of   Rakesh Kumar, who is currently posted in the district jail of Jind, is being probed after his brother, a life-term convict, escaped from custody in the wee hours of Friday, police said on Saturday.

 The convict, Rajesh alias Pinchu, convicted in a 2013 case of kidnapping, gave policemen the slip when he was being brought back to   from Rohtak.
 
 He had gone to Maharshi Dayanand University (Rohtak) to appear for an LLB examination on Thursday. Police said while the four cops, along with Rajesh, had taken a   bus on way to Rohtak from Gurugram, the DSP had allegedly arranged for a Hyundai Creta car with a driver for Rajesh’s return trip. And the convict used the same car to escape.
 
 “The convict’s younger brother Rakesh Kumar is a DSP and currently posted in  . Apparently, he had provided a private vehicle for the comfort his brother on his way back to Bhondsi. But he slipped away from the police custody. We are verifying the DSP’s role,” said DCP (south) Ashok Bakshi.
 
 The four cops, head constable Balbir Singh, constables Sandeep, Rammehar and Jasbir, who had accompanied Rajesh, have already been arrested and suspended on charges of negligence and conspiracy. They were produced in a city court that granted them bail on Saturday.
 
 DCP (crime) Sumit Kuhar said police were collecting call details of DSP Rakesh and the four suspended cops. “The DSP is under the scanner and we are going to call him soon to join the investigation. Action will be taken as per law,” he added.
 
 Sources said Rakesh was the state president of Congress’s National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) in 2011. During the tenure of former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, he was directly appointed as DSP jail in 2014. He spent a long term at Sunaria jail and was transferred to the Jind jail in June last year.
 
 “So far, Gurugram police have not expressed any suspicion on his role in the case. If we get any information or request, we will probe the matter,” said IG (prisons) Jagjit Singh.
 
 The Gurugram police have also initiated a departmental inquiry against the four suspended cops.
 
 A senior police officer said the four constables not only accepted the ‘favour’ (of traveling in a car) but also overlooked all norms and protocol. 
 
 
 
 
 Rajesh Kumar, alias Pinchu, was serving his life term in Bhondsi jail after his conviction in the kidnapping of JMD group’s chairman Sunil Bedi and his son Karan on March 1 in 2013 for ransom.
 
 Though police had arrested his two accomplices the day after the kidnapping, Rajesh was at large. The government had announced a bounty of Rs 1 lakh on his head. Finally, he was arrested from his home at Bupania village in Jhajjar on June 15 in the same year.
 
 Probe had revealed that the plan was hatched by Rajesh, who had contacted Bedi and his son and allegedly offered to get their projects passed from the government. Then, the father-son duo was reportedly called to the office of Mind Institute of Finance Management in Sector 14 for a meeting where they were held hostage at gunpoint and kidnapped.
 
 Then the abductors had put Sunil and his son in two different cars. While Karan was sent to Rajesh’s home, Sunil was taken to his residence in Delhi in his Audi car. On reaching Sunil’s home, the abductors had asked him to hand over all the cash and jewellery in the house. They had taken away around Rs 10 lakh in cash and jewellery worth Rs 4 lakh. 
 
 
