NEW DELHI: First there was the dust storm, then came the rain and finally there was the storm raised by the   batsmen at the Ferozeshah Kotla on Wednesday. In a game that got underway an hour and a half after the scheduled start and then was reduced to 18 overs each due to a heavy shower that hit Kotla just 10 minutes before the start of play, the home side just refused to let the foot off the pedal.

 
 
 
 After the 13 sixes which flowed off the Daredevils’ willows, the Delhi rains made a second appearance for the night. The home side finished the innings at 196/6, five balls short off their tally of 18 overs. The total proved just enough for the Daredevils, who won the match by four runs (D/L method) to notch up their third win of the season and keep their slim hopes of qualifying for the playoffs alive.
 
 
 
 The Royals reached a target of 151 in 12 overs and it was time for ‘Buttler Storm’ to hit Kotla. Jos Buttler (67, 26b, 4x4, 7x6), who had talked about stepping up his game on the eve of the match, came out to open the innings with D’Arcy Short and raced to his fifty off just 18 balls - the fastest ever by a Royals batsman.
 
 The innings was studded with no less than seven sixes - pick of the lot being a scoop off Avesh Khan - and in just a handful of overs, the daunting target wasn’t looking so daunting anymore. The carnage though was too good to last as legspinner Amit Mishra had the Englishman stumped in the seventh over after an opening stand of 82 runs. K Gowtham (18 off 6) took the Royals close but fell tantalisingly short as Trent Boult just gave away a single when six were needed off the final ball of the innings.
 
 Earlier, the first-ball dismissal of Delhi opener   was the only aberration for the Daredevils as Prithvi Shaw (47, 24b, 4x4, 4x6), skipper Shreyas Iyer (50, 35b, 3x4, 3x6) and Rishabh Pant (69, 29b, 7x4, 5x6) all cashed in on the modest offering dished out by  . It started raining sixes from this Kulkarni over - two came off Shaw’s willow - even as Iyer joined in on the fun. After that, hometown hero Rishabh Pant started swinging at everything in sight - so much that on more than one occasion the Delhi wicketkeeper swung himself off his feet. Pant and Iyer raised Delhi’s 100 in just 10.1 overs.
 
