PATNA:   (ECR) general manager L C Trivedi on Wednesday called on chief minister Nitish Kumar at the latter’s official residence in Patna.

 It was Trivedi’s first meeting with the CM after assuming the charge at the ECR headquarters at Hajipur in March. He is learned to have briefed the CM about the ongoing railway projects in   and the steps taken to develop the railway network in the state.
 
 Sources said the CM Nitish assured full cooperation from the state government to the ECR to complete its projects in time. He also asked the   to complete pending projects of the railways on priority basis in the larger interest of the people of the state.
 
 ECR GM’s secretary A K Jha was also present during the meeting.
 
 ECR earnings: The ECR registered loading of record 11.49 million tonne goods in the month of April and earned about Rs 1437.8 crore for the railways. 
 
 ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said on Thursday the ECR also earned about Rs 211.81 crore from passenger segment in April. Around 203 lakh passengers travelled from different stations under the ECR in April.
 
 Bio toilets: The ECR has launched a drive in its five divisions to create awareness among passengers about the importance of bio toilets in trains. 
 
 Under the ‘Swachh Bharat’ campaign, the railways has converted conventional toilets into bio toilets in certain mail and express trains to maintain cleanliness on the tracks.
 
 Railway staff felicitated: ECR Women Welfare Organisation (WWO) president Kaumudi Trivedi felicitated 42 Group-D railway employees at a function held at the   at Hajipur on Tuesday in recognition of their dedication to duty. 
 
 The felicitaed employees included gang man, trolley man, khalasi and signal and track maintainers.
 
 The ECR WWO also donated laparoscopic surgery instruments to the ECR central superspecialty hospital located at Karbigahiya end of Patna Junction at a simple function held on Tuesday. 
 
 “The hospital is well equipped now to perform laparoscopic surgery on the needy among railway employees and their family members,” the CPRO said.
 
 Passengers penalised: Altogether 485 passengers were caught red- handed for dirtying railway premises at different places in the ECR region in April. 
 
 The CPRO said a sum of Rs 77,000 was realised as penalty from offenders.
 
 
