AHMEDABAD: A multimodal logistics park on the outskirts of Ahmedabad city has been planned by the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation (DFCCIL) Limited. 

 The park, proposed to be set up near   in Ahmedabad, has an estimated project cost of Rs 350 crore.
 
 DFCCIL officials said the   has already reserved 200 hectares of land near Godhavi, Nidhrad for the project. The location is strategically significant, as it is close to Sanand, the automobile hub of the state. 
 
 Also, the area is close to Detroj where Maruti has set up its facilities for loading cars.
 
 The park will bring down logistics costs by serving four functions — freight aggregation and distribution, multimodal freight transportation, modern and mechanized warehousing serving special requirements of different commodity groups, as also value added services like customs clearance with bonded storage yards.
 
 The multimodal logistics park will provide transport links of rail and road, and offer customs clearance facilities. Apart from these, there will be single-window clearance including customs and round the clock loading and boarding facilities. The logistics park will provide connectivity to Ahmedabad, Surendranagar, Gandhinagar and Rajkot, Bhavnagar and even   region. Apart from this, the park will also have direct connectivity with the NH-8 and the expressway up to Vadodara, which is being further extended to Mumbai.
 
 Officials said that the logistics park will be catering to industries like pharmaceutical, drugs and chemicals, cotton, textile, apparel, containers, milk and milk products, edible oil, salt, automobiles, and scrap.
 
 “We are working out finances for the multimodal logistics park. A couple of meeting have been held with   government to work out the financial model. The cost of the park is estimated at Rs 350 crore and it will be on private-public partnership,” said a senior officer of DGCCIL. “It remains to be seen what share the Gujarat government decides to have in the logistics park,” he added.
 
 
