PATNA: Three  , a regular pistol, ammunition, liquor and 30kg of silver jewellery were seized from different locations under the   and Gardanibagh police station area during intensive checking drive launched in Patna by DIG (central range) Rajesh Kumar on Sunday. 

 Five persons travelling in a white SUV with the   and 73   were detained by the police near the Bihar Museum for interrogation. The DIG said the three rifles were modified and illegal under the Arms Act. The five persons were identified as Sumit Kumar (28), Dinesh Kumar (38), Vijay Singh (35), Santosh Kumar (30) from Buxar and Md Khalid (38) from Phulwarisharif area in Patna. An FIR has been lodged with the Kotwali police station in this regard.
 
 “The credentials of the five persons were being verified. They have been asked to produce documents related to the firearms to know about the owners,” the DIG said, adding no one is allowed to move while brandishing firearms in the open. The detained persons told the police they had come to Phulwarisharif for a land deal. 
 
 During the checking, a married couple along with another woman was detained with eight bottles of smuggled India made foreign liquor (IMFL) of 80ml each in their four-wheeler. The man was identified as Abhishek Anand (38). He lives in a rented accommodation at Lohanipur under the Kadamkuan police station area. His wife and the other woman were released as they feigned ignorance about the liquor. Abhishek also told the police he did not know where the liquor came from in his car. 
 
 Meanwhile, one Gaurav Kumar (21) was detained for interrogation for travelling in an autorickshaw with two bags filled with 30kg of silver ornament near road number 16 under the Gardanibagh police station area. Gardanibagh police station SHO Shardendu Sharad said the youth told the police the ornaments were brought from Agra for supply in Sitamarhi.
 
 “Kumar produced two receipts against the ornaments which were suspicious. Income Tax department officials have been informed,” Sharad said and added that Kumar told the police that he came to Danapur railway station by a train and was heading going to Mithapur but stand to board a bus for Sitamarhi.
 
 
