KOCHI: Just four years ago, Anugrah M M couldn't walk, write or even eat on his own. Afflicted with cerebral palsy since birth, the 12-year-old can now read and write quite fluently and more or less take care of himself thanks to  , his classmate and best friend. 

 Both of them are seventh grade students of MAM upper primary school at Parambilkkadavu near   in Kozhikode, one Hindu, the other Muslim. When the Orthodox Syrian Christian Church heard of the almost miraculous change   has wrought in the boy's life, they decided to felicitate the two of them. 
 
 
 
 The church intends to support the two kids with a cash award of Rs 2.5 lakh each at a function in their Kottayam headquarters on Tuesday. 
 
 "Recognising their rare bonding, the Orthodox Church's supremo Catholicos Baselios Marthoma Paulose II visited them in Kozhikode in April. He was truly inspired by this friendship at a time when stories of communal conflict and violence are commonplace," said P C Elias, spokesperson of the Orthodox Syrian Church. 
 
 "The Catholicos has also offered to provide help for widening the pathway to Anugrah's house. It is too narrow now for a car to reach there," he said.
 
 When Anugrah joined MAM school as a first standard student, his mother Sudha would wait all day at the school premises to attend to him. Later, when Sudha got pregnant, she couldn't accompany Anugrah to school. That's when Fathima stepped in. "I would drop him at school but he couldn't walk, write or even have food on his own. We were thinking of stopping his studies. But Fathima arrived like an angel. On hearing the sound of my bike, she would come running and lift him up," recalls Manikandan, Anugrah's dad. "She would feed him, take him to toilet and help him with his notes in class," he said.
 
 When the kids were in third standard, the school authorities honoured Fathima at the school assembly. "We were invited to the function. When teachers praised our daughter, it was a moment of pride for us. It was an eye opener and I am trying to make my daughter a role model," said Muhammed Ali, Fathima's father.
 
 "Support and motivation by Fathima helped Anugrah to walk on his own. When other students were busy playing, Fathima would sit with Anugrah and help him read and write since he had serious learning difficulties," said Rajeesh Kumar P, a teacher at MAM school. "Last year, Anugrah even participated in a play staged during the school anniversary," he added.
 
 From next academic year, both children will go to government higher secondary school at Payambra. Their special journey will continue.
 
 
 
 
