GURUGRAM: At least 14,259 children in the city have not been issued  . The numbers are important not only because it indicates a large unidentified population, but also because these children are not included in the district’s sex ratio figures. The reply to activist Aseem Takyar’s February 19 RTI reveals 17,769 girls and 19,750 boys were reportedly born in the MCG (urban) area, i.e. Gurugram city, between April 1, 2016, and March 31, 2018. However, of these, 14,259 babies were not issued birth certificates.

 
  
 
 As per procedure, whenever a child is born, either the hospital or parents (in case of home births) upload information on the new-born at the civil registration system (CRS) portal. In case the information provided is erroneous, it’s the individual or hospital’s responsibility to get the correct information updated. 
 
 After this, MCG issues birth certificates. However, in case of 14,259 births, the families never contacted MCG to seek certificates for their progeny. This despite the new system, under which, since April 2017, the certificates are sent to the applicant’s address via   and expenses are borne by MCG.
 
 “Often, there are errors like mismatched information, incomplete or wrongly filled forms, etc. Though the most probable reason for parents not coming forward to receive the certificates is the misconception that Aadhaar card is mandatory. It is not, but we do make a sincere effort that they get the Aadhaar card made. Also, many people don’t realise the importance of a birth certificate and don’t collect it till needed,” a senior official told TOI.
 
 The lack of birth certificates issued means 38% children are not registered. This affects the true sample figures for sex ratio. Notably, sex ratio at birth (SRB) for Gurugram was 918 between April 1, 2017 and March 31, 2018, and 955 (monthly ratio) for the first three months of this year. 
 
 The CRS data is collected by both health department and MCG. The health department compiles the sex ratio, after which both it and MCG sends their data to the Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao team at the chief minister’s office.
 
 The officials were not sure if these births will be included within the time period when the births took place, or when they eventually get registered. It’s not as if the situation is unknown. Even state-level officials are aware of it. In fact, a meeting was held last month in which Gurugram officials were asked to approve all births, with or without Aadhaar cards. “Having a birth certificate is every child’s right. We’ve been instructed to issue birth certificates as is, with corrections carried out later,” a senior health official told TOI.
 
 Dr Ashish Singla, registrar-cum-medical officer, MCG said “the department is already working on clearing pending cases. We’ve approached hospitals to contact parents who are yet to collect birth certificates for their children, or share their details with us, so that MCG can do the needful. We’ll complete the procedure at the earliest.”
 
 
