Chandigarh: The shopkeepers working in  , Sector 22 recently had a wake-up call when they realised that a fire safety hydrant is unable to reach the inside portion of the market, towards the other side due to the excessive vendor encroachment that has plagued the front entrance of the market for the past many years now.

 The shopkeepers complained about the lack of space left to tread on the roads outside the main entrance of the market, adding that it has also severely affected the parking conditions in the locality. 
 
 They also threw light on the looming danger in which they find themselves engulfed in. “We knew that this place is completely choked and paralysed of any vehicular movement due to the countless number of vendors that have encroached the road sides and have also covered and blocked the entrance to many roads leading towards the market, but the situation is worse for us. The fire brigade could not even reach close to the market due to the presence of so many obstructions on the road. What if we face an emergency tomorrow? What will we do if the help will not be able to reach us?” asked Deepak, one of the 316 booth owners in the market. 
 
 An annual mock drill, organised by the UT fire department, was held on April 17 in the Shastri Market. 
 
 The shopkeepers complained about the constant commotion due to the presence of a thick layer of encroachment all around them.
 
  “At the mock drill, we saw how the fire safety vehicle was struggling to get inside the road blocked by the vendors. There was a lot of chaos and the vendors were not even helping. What if at the time of tragedy the same thing happens? I am scared to even think about the fire of 1992 happening again,” said general secretary of Shastri Market Welfare Association, Paranjeet Tungal.
 
 Highlighting other issues due to excessive encroachment, sub-fire officer at fire department, UT, Lal Bahadur Gautam, said, “The risk of a major fire happening in places like these is always higher during summer months. Moreover, this is a market for garments which are mostly made up of cotton and is thus highly inflammable. During the mock fire drill conducted during the fire safety week, the fire truck was stuck not only because of the road encroachment, but also because of the objects like utensils, decorative items, umbrellas and other things that they hang in the air which was getting in the way of the fire truck and the vendors took time to remove all of that. This kind of delay can be crucial at a time of crisis.”
 
  However, the market currently has as many as 28 functional fire extinguishers which are to be increased to 35.
 
 
