Harvey Weinstein's ex-wife   has opened up about the sexual harassment scandal that saw the downfall of the powerful   producer, saying she's never suspected him of any wrongdoing. 

 "There was a part of me that was terribly naive-clearly, so naive. I have moments of rage, I have moments of confusion, I have moments of disbelief! And I have moments when I just cry for my children." Chapman, 42, told.
 
  
  
 This is Chapman's first interview since the scandal, which comes seven months after dozens of women accused Weinstein of sexual assault and harassment. Asked whether she had suspicions, the fashion designer replied. "Absolutely not." 
 
 "I had what I thought was a very happy marriage. I loved my life," she said. In the aftermath of the scandal, Chapman had announced that she was separating from Weinstein, with whom she has two children -seven year-old India and five-year-old  . 
 
 Chapman, who founded a brand with her friend  , said she avoided going out in public for five months after the story broke. "I was so humiliated and so broken... that... I didn't think it was respectful to go out," she said. 
 
  "I thought, Who am I to be parading around with all of this going on? It's still so very, very raw. I was walking up the stairs the other day and I stopped; it was like all the air had been punched out of my lungs," she added. 
 
 When she first became aware about the allegations against Weinstein, Chapman said she lost "ten pounds in five days. I couldn't keep food down." It took her two days to accept the reality. "My head was spinning. And it was difficult because the first article was about a time long before I'd ever met him, so there was a minute where I couldn't make an informed decision. And then the stories expanded and I realized that this wasn't an isolated incident. And I knew that I needed to step away and take the kids out of here," Chapman said. 
 
 Recently, actor   wore her brand at the Met Gala in New York. She was the first celebrity in months to wear the label at a high-profile event. Chapman said the brand's absence from the award season this year was her decision, despite several actors offering to wear something to show their support. 
 
 "We didn't feel it was appropriate given the situation. All the women who have been hurt deserve dignity and respect, so I want to give it the time it deserves. It's a time for mourning, really," Chapman said.
 
  
  
