KOCHI: To provide social as well as psychological care to children in conflict with law and to reintegrate them into the society, the district administration has launched   on Saturday.

 Kaaval is being implemented as part of the integrated   of the social justice department and district child protection unit in association with the National Institute of   and Neuro Sciences, Bengaluru.
 
 In the first phase, 107 children in the district will be benefited.
 
 According to a   conducted in 2017, there are around 3,118 children in conflict with the law (CCL) in the state.
 
 As part of the project, numerous services and programmes for behavioural modification through counselling, life skill education, vocational education as well as legal assistance with the help of various departments and agencies will be provided to children who are in conflict with the law.
 
 District child protection officials said that training has been provided to child welfare police officers in the district in this regard.
 
 K B Saina, district child protection officer said that under the project, services needed for a child will be determined on the basis of Individual care plan, which will be prepared after a series of counselling sessions with children as well as their parents.
 
 “Individual care plan would be drawn up for each child in conflict with the law who has either been given bail by the juvenile justice board or was on probation or had been given an admonition. Based on the care plan, a non – governmental organization in the area where the child lived would be roped in to bring the child into the mainstream. The families of the children will also be included so that a conducive familiar environment is created for children to go back to once the cases are disposed of,” said K B Saina, district child protection officer.
 
 Children who are denied bail will be handed over to select non – governmental organizations which will counsel them to solve problems such as learning disability or substance abuse, she said.
 
 
