HYDERABAD: Central Crime Station (CCS) sleuths filed a chargesheet against 11 accused, including city’s prominent realtor M   in ?2,200 crore evacuee property scam.

 
 In the chargesheet, filed in the Nampally criminal courts, the CCS said the accused —   and his brothers and sisters — with the assistance of realtor M Sukumar Reddy of Banjara Hills and two others filed a claim for nearly 148 acre of land in Puppalaguda after 47 years of the original allotment and 13 years after the death of evacuee  . The then Chief Commissioner of Land Administration processed the request and in 2003 allotted the 148 acre of land to Ramesh Malani and his brothers and sisters. This is the second evacuee property scam. The first was of Makhija family, in which the CCS had filed the chargesheet in 2017 against builders and lawyers.
 
 
  
 
 The key charges against the accused are that they produced a MRO (Mandal Revenue Officer) certificate, obtained fraudulently, stating that they are living in Asifnagar. The other allegation is that their names did not figure in the evacuee property claim index of the  , but they still managed to stake claim over the property.
 
 Explaining the details of the case, CCS Assistant Commissioner of Police M Srinivasulu told TOI: “We have filed the chargesheet against Ramesh Malani, Kamal Malani, Sulochana Malani and five other sisters and brothers of the family. City realtor M Sukumar Reddy and his associates — Dayanand and Sayoji Rao — were named as accused number 9, 10 and 11 respectively in the chargesheet. The trio assisted Malani brothers and sisters in processing the claim and financially benefited in the deal. The 148 acre property was sold to one   for only ?9.6 crore in 2005. But now, the value of the property would be ?15 crore per acre, thus putting its total value at ?2,200 crore.”
 
 According to the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act and Administration of Evacuee Property Act, the legal heirs should get their names entered in the claim index with MHA within 120 days of the death of original evacuee. In this case, the claimants did not get their names included in the claims index, as that would have resulted in an enquiry by the central authorities, CCS officials said.
 
 The CCS produced the tripartite agreement struck between Malani family and Sukumar Reddy and his associates as well as buyer Nanda Kumar and also the money receipts and banking documents regarding payments.
 
 “Around 75% of the money was paid to Sukumar Reddy and two others, while Ramesh Malani and family got 25% of the money of the total ?9.6 crore,” said the ACP.
 
 The CCS alleged that after obtaining the allotment letter from Chief Commissioner Of Land Administration (CCLA) and without having physical possession of the land, it was sold to Nanda Kumar. The Ranga Reddy district collector is the custodian of evacuee property.
 
