KOCHI: Providing a new dimension to the city's public transport system, the   is expected to run from   to SN Junction by 2020-end. According to the Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL), land acquisition from Pettah to SN Junction has already started, alignment has been finalized and all discussions with oil companies have been completed. 

 
  
  
 
 "We will toe the central line of the route. We had discussions with all oil companies, which have laid pipelines along the route. Sufficient horizontal clearance has been found. Oil companies have agreed to our suggestions. If everything goes at the current pace we will be able to complete work till SN Junction by end of 2020," said KMRL managing director APM Mohammed Hanish.
 
 Hanish said land acquisition from Thykoodam to Pettah was tardy in comparison to the rest of the metro stretch. Naturally, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), which has been executing the project, couldn't start off with the construction along with the stretch from Jos Junction to Thykoodam. 
 
 "By March 2019 the stretch till Thykoodam will be completed, and by another six or seven months thereafter the stretch till Pettah will also be completed. There would be differential gap of three to four months to a maximum of six months. So, we should be able to complete the stretch till Pettah by September -October 2019," he said.
 
 Brushing aside doubts regarding implementation of the project along Pettah-SN Junction he said the extension was already included in the state's budgetary allocation. Land will be required at Vadakkekkotta and SN Junction for its implementation.
 
 He also said the Pettah Bridge will be rebuilt as part of implementing the metro project. "If the Pettah Bridge is to be rebuilt, we need to go for alternative traffic arrangements, which will be possible because of a new bridge that has come up further south near Thattappallikavu," he said adding the problem of oil pipelines alongside the bridge will have to be addressed. 
 
 "We will take up the matter as there is a need to construct a new bridge. Contrary to the popular belief, the oil companies have been cooperative. For the construction of Metro from Pettah to SN Junction, a safe horizontal clearance of 3m between the pipeline and the metro pillars have been provided," he said.
 
 The KRML has been actively looking into the possibility of extending the Metro from SN Junction to the  . 
 
 "It's still in the realm of possibility. No sanctions have come in. But at the same time, we have been conducting detailed inspections. On Monday, we conducted an inspection along with Tripunithura municipality chairperson and civic members. We have found an easy way to reach the railway station. Thanks to a new road that is being constructed by the TPR municipality. So, it saves a lot of money for us," he said. The SN Junction to Tripunithura is significant because as far as the agency is concerned, it gives a new meaning to all the developments initiated by it. Travellers from the south could crossover from the bus stand and railway station and take the Metro.
 
 Tripunithura will become a major hub. Moreover, the delay that occurs while commuting by trains between Tripunithura and Ernakulam South could be avoided. Most of the trains get halted at Ponnurunni outer area causing inconvenience to passengers. 
 
 "When the Kochi Metro gets extended to the Tripunithura Railway Station such issues can be sorted out," he said. 
 
 Moreover, the KMRL wants link to be implemented as it could help in filling their coffers. On a normal day, the ridership of Metro from Aluva to Maharaja's College is 30,000 to 35,000, and during holiday season it goes up to 40,000 to 45,000. "The completion and commissioning of the new stretches will help in reworking of Metro fare thus making it more affordable to commuters," said Hanish.
 
 
