In a career spanning over three decades Eric   has choreographed many dance pieces with differently-abled performers. And he believes that people should be defined by what they can do rather than by what they cannot. “If someone is disabled from birth or from an early age, the society makes him feel that he can’t do certain things and it affects his life forever. My goal is to change that mentality of both the society as well as the disabled,” says the veteran who showcased a contemporary dance production titled ‘Weight Of Joy’ in Hyderabad recently. 
Staged at  , the show featured a troupe of eight dancers of whom two are hearing impaired. “Last year, I conducted a workshop with around 20 dancers from India. I chose four out of them for the production. They are amateurs who’ve not danced professionally before this production. The other four are from my company Danses en l’R, which is based out of Reunion in France,” says the French ace, explaining how he handpicked the dancers for his troupe. 
 Admittedly, Eric spent two-and-a-half months researching about people living in ‘hardest environments’ in India. “By ‘hardest environments’, I mean difficult situations. For instance, women in the country and the difficulties they face for not being able to express themselves and being subjugated by the society,” he explains. 
 Training both disabled and the non-disabled together has been a highlight of his career. “In my workshops, both the disabled and the non-disabled are on the same podium and they can do anything; there is no demarcation,” says Eric, who has developed a special technique for the differently-abled. “We create an ambience to help them find their own movements. We don’t give them dance steps to imitate, like we do when working with dancers usually. Instead, they are given tasks on a weekly basis. For instance, during the initial rehearsals I asked my troupe to give me simple expressions of joy. One woman simply jumped and we worked on the idea and came up with a scene where everybody is using a skipping rope and jumping. It became a simple expression of experiencing joy,” he explains going on to term the production as “an hour-long dream that at times, highlights social issues and even nightmares”. 
 
