PANCHKULA:   thieves struck again on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday at two places in   and took away with three buffaloes worth Rs 2 lakh.

 Two of the three buffaloes belong to   village in Raipur Rani, who is a farmer and also has 50 Murrah buffaloes in his dairy constructed in his house.
 
 Ranbir told the cops that on Monday he had tied two of his buffaloes outside his house with his tractor-trolley and he also checked upon He looked for them in the entire village, but in vain.
 
 Later, one of his neighbour   also came out of his house searching for his Murrah as well and he told   that his buffalo had also been stolen. Both victims went to the police station and narrated the entire incident to the cops. After receiving a joint complaint, the cops registered a case under Section 379 (punishment for theft) of the IPC at Raipur Rani police station against unknown persons.
 
 During their investigation, the cops also went through the CCTV footage of a camera installed in a private school located in the village. The CCTV footage showed five persons taking two Murrahs of Ranbir at 2.10am while Sandeep’s bovine was taken by the accused at 2.30am.
 
 Cops said that faces of the accused were not clear in the CCTV footage, but five persons were seen in the CCTV footage taking the buffaloes away. The investigation team followed the foot signs that stopped 1 km outside the village and tyres marks of a pickup truck were found there. “The accused had reportedly taken the buffaloes in a pick-up truck”, said investigation officer Mahi Pal,   police post in-charge.
 
 Ranbir said, “Each of my stolen Murrah gave12-15 litre of milk a day and both are worth Rs 70,000-80,000 each. It is a major loss to me.” Sandeep said, “My Murrah is worth around Rs 50,000 and it is a huge loss for me. Cops must help me to find out my buffalo as soon as possible.”
 
 This is not the first case in the area. Earlier on March 13 this year, four Murrahs of a farmer worth Rs 3 lakh were taken away by some unknown person in Pinjore.
 
