HYDERABAD: Anger swept University of Hyderabad on Sunday, a day after the arrest of two former students in   for allegedly hatching a plot to eliminate vice-chancellor Appa Rao  . Supporters and kin of Rohith  , research scholar whose suicide triggered nationwide caste protests in 2016, said the duo of   and Chandan Mishra, were innocent and must be released.

 In a Facebook post, Vemula’s brother Raja stated — We demand immediate release of Prudviraj and Chandan.
 
 The duo was arrested at Pitchukalapadu ‘T’ junction after they were evasive to queries by apolice patrol party, police said.
 
 While the two were charged with meeting top Maoist leader Haribhushan to plot the murder of Podile, sources say they were detained days ago and their arrest was made official on Saturday.
 
 Rubbishing claims by AP police, members of The Revolutionary Writers’ Association (Virasam) said the case against Prudhviraj, who has been their member since 2017, was fabricated and have filed a habeas corpus writ in court. The petition was moved by advocate V Raghunath on behalf of Prudhviraj’s father   on Saturday. Hyderabad HC has served notices to AP and Telangana and sought a reply.
 
 Several students termed the arrest as a conspiracy by BJPled government. “While Prudviraj left the university before the Vemula suicide, Chandan was not an active member during the protests. How can a person who was not active, hatch a plan to kill the V-C,” asked a member of  , UoH wing.
 
 While police are investigating the case, majority student leaders from various organisations are mum. “We just heard the police version. We will react once we get to know their side of the story,” said a student.
 
 On the contrary, members of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad are vocal about the issue and have accused Leftist student outfits and professors of plotting VC’s murder.
 
 Soon after arrests, security on campus was tightened. According to students, no outsiders are allowed. Now, students are allowed to enter only after presenting their ID cards.
 
