Bharuch: Bharuch is all decked up for the mega celebrations of Gujarat’s 58th foundation day. But barely 2 km away from the venue functions — hostel ground and police parade ground — the picture is a complete contrast. River Narmada,  , is crying for water and heavy influx of seawater has turned left hundreds of industries in this ‘Golden Corridor’ bleeding.

 The Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) has informed the industries that the water supply to them would curtailed by at least 40%. Sources said due to high tide on full moon on Sunday, seawater gushed into the river up to the GIDC pumping stations located at Nandh and Angareshwar. The chloride level in the water has increased to such an extent that it has become unfit for industrial use. However, GIDC have three major reservoirs at Bhersam, Dahej-II and Dahej-I, which can last only around a week.
 
 The industries have been battling salinity problem for several years now due to extremely low discharge of water from Sardar Sarovar dam into the river. This year, however, the situation is more critical.
 
 President Dahej Industries Association M A Hania said, “Due to the high tide, pumping stations of GIDC at Nandh and Angareshwar are non-operational. Also, because of high level of salinity, the underground water gets contaminated. All major industries of Dahej and Vilayat have critical operations and its management itself is very complicated. Shortage of water for industrial operations is severely impacting production. Many of the units have delayed their expansion in the absence of clarity on water availability. More discharge of the dam is the only immediately solution.”
 
 GIDC’s proposed desalination plant with 50 million litre per day will still take around six to eight months to get operational. Once started, it will be helpful to some extent next year. However, once high tide water recedes, pumping from the borewells will begin again.” Dahej and Vilayat industrial estates have around 400 medium and large-scale units of which 90% are those making chemicals. The major water-intensive industries are Ongc Petro Additions Limited (OPAL), Gujarat Alkalies and Chemcials Ltd (GACL), Hindalco, Reliance, Meghmani, Gujarat Fluorochemicals Ltd, Grasim Industries Ltd, Jubilant Life Science and units located in Dahej SEZ. These units consuming around 50 million gallon litre per day and their major sources are the borewells at Nandh and Angareshwar, 80 km from Dahej.
 
 A senior official of a mega unit said, “One day loss of water means production loss worth Rs 35 crore per day. If the present situation continues, we will not be able to meet the demand our products. Our expansion projects are also on hold. It is the responsibility of state government to provide water to the industries who have invested heavily here.” 
 
 Chief minister Vijay Rupani will give away apprenticeship letters to around 5,000 youngsters at Hostel Ground. In the evening, cultural programmes will be held at Agriculture University ground.
 
 A senior government official said, “Bhadbhut barrage project will take three to four years to partially begin, but till then GIDC should lay another pipeline up to Garudeshwar in Narmada to have continuous flow of usable water.”
 
 
