GREATER NOIDA: Vice-president   on Saturday urged the electrical industry to adopt digital technology for sustainable power solutions and said the government planned to put 60-70 lakh electrical vehicles on the roads by 2020 to reduce pollution.

 “The Indian electrical equipment industry consists of generation, transmission, distribution and allied equipment. Energy storage technology is needed to not only create a more resilient infrastructure but also to bring down costs. Electric and hybrid electric vehicles will drive the automobile industry in the coming years. The government had already unveiled the   and set a target of 6-7 million units of electric and hybrid electric vehicles by 2020,” Naidu said.
 
 The vice-president was in Noida on Saturday to inaugurate the 13th edition of ELECRAMA 2018. He was accompanied by Union minister of commerce and industry   and the state cabinet minister for industrial development Satish Mahana.
 
 Organised by the Indian Electrical and Electronics Manufacturers’ Association at the   and Mart in  , the five-day meet opened to over 1,200 exhibitors, including 300 companies from 120-odd countries. Pointing out that the industry provided direct employment to at least 5 lakh people, Naidu called for an innovative solution to harness solar power for protection of the environment and sustainable development. Naidu said global warming and climate change had been affecting every aspect of one’s life. “Any new policy has to factor in the need to protect the environment and ensure sustainable development,” he said, adding that with India ranking second in the renewable energy attractive index 2017, the sector was bound to play a major role in the years ahead.
 
 He called for government support to the manufacturers of electrical and electronics equipment. The vice-president also stressed that the industry must align itself with the government’s vision of LPG — liberalisation, privatisation, globalisation — and brace for the global markets.
 
 
