BENGALURU: The vexed   is set to flare up during the election time with pro-Kannada organisations calling for a Karnataka bandh on April 12 to counter the ongoing agitation in neighbouring Tamil Nadu on the issue.

 Political parties in Tamil Nadu had called for a state-wide bandh on Thursday, urging the Centre to set up the   (CMB), arguing that the   had ordered the same. Kannada activists claimed that they have been compelled to give the bandh call to protect the interests of farmers in Karnataka.
 
 “We are actually against the idea of observing bandh, but when Tamil Nadu parties call for a state-wide bandh there, we have to counter it. Otherwise, only their voice will be heard and ours will be suppressed,” claimed Vatal Nagaraj, leader of Kannada Okkoota that staged a protest in Attibele on the border of Tamil Nadu on Thursday.
 
 Pro-Kannada organisations argue that the SC had never said that CMB be constituted, and in case the board is constituted, Karnataka would lose its control over the irrigation projects. Vatal said pro-Kannada organisations will meet on Saturday to chalk out the future course of action. 
 
 In Chennai, chief minister K Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam and other AIADMK leaders had observed a daylong fast on Monday. Actor-turned politicians Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan too have supported the formation of the CMB. 
 
 What did the SC say 
 
 The apex court had on February 16, directed the Centre to come up with a scheme to monitor the river water sharing among Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry in six weeks. The Centre approached the Supreme Court last month, seeking clarifications on the judgment. Tamil Nadu too moved the SC later alleging contempt of court by the Centre. The matter will be taken up for hearing on April 9. Meanwhile, Puducherry on Thursday moved the Supreme Court with an interlocutory application, seeking a direction to the Centre to immediately implement its verdict in letter and spirit. 
 
 “We’ll wait for the April 9 verdict. If the Supreme Court clarifies that setting up of the monitoring board is not necessary, we’ll drop the bandh call. Else, we’ll go ahead with our protest,” Vatal said. 
 
 KSRTC loses Rs 26 lakh 
 
 The   (KSRTC) lost Rs 26,49,343 in revenue after suspending its interstate bus services to Tamil Nadu on Thursday in view of the bandh there. The corporation had to cancel 211 schedules, covering a total of 75,637 kilometres. The services to TN resumed at 5.15pm.
 
 
