NEW DELHI: Taking a step towards   reforms to ensure remunerative price of farm produce to   and protect them from price volatility and distress sales, the Centre has come out with a model act on contract farming - an improved version of its earlier draft - which provides for sponsors to get into a contract with an individual or group of farmers not just for production but also for marketing of produce and farm services. 

 The contract farming is a pre-production season agreement between farmers (either individually or collectively) and sponsors. It transfers risk of post-harvest market unpredictability to sponsors (individual or company) who have to pay agreed prices to farmers under an advance agreement. 
 
 Besides covering the market risk, the sponsor under the contract farming also agrees to professionally manage inputs, technology, extension education, pre and post-harvest infrastructure and services as per mutually agreed terms. As a result, small and marginal farmers get to enjoy additional benefits of operational efficiency.
 
 “Keeping in mind the spectrum of agricultural activities that   practice, the Model Act has been tailored comprehensively to include all categories of agronomic & horticultural crops, as also the diverse universe of livestock, dairy, poultry and fishery”, says the statement of objects and reasons of the State/Union Territory Agricultural Produce & Livestock Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2018. 
 
 This model act is expected to be cleared by the   this month. The states will subsequently be urged by the Centre to enact their respective legislations, taking the Model Act as their guide. 
 
 The model act, framed by a committee of the agriculture ministry in consultation with the Niti Aayog, has broadened the ambit of proposed contract farming legislation by bringing marketing and services into it. The Model Act has, in fact, incorporated suggestions of stakeholders on its earlier draft which was issued in January. 
 
 The Model Act also curtails the role of states. The state’s role 
 
 will be limited to protecting the interests of farmers and others who enter into contract with sponsors. It also does not call for notification of commodities. Parties can choose the commodity as per their interests, provided the contracted produce comes under insurance cover. The proposed legislation, however, gives power to states to de-notify any particular commodity in case of an emergency.
 
 “Contracted produce is to be covered under crop/livestock insurance in operation.
 
 Contract farming, services contract and such other contract under this Act to remain outside the ambit of respective Agricultural Produce Marketing Act of the states”, says the statement on objects and reasons of proposed model act. 
 
 It prohibits contract farming sponsor from raising permanent structure on contract   and premises.
 
