Nagpur: In a major jolt to Naxalites and their sympathizers, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Thursday rejected the bail pleas of Prashant Rahi alias Narayan Sanglikar, and Vijay Tirki. Both accused, close associates of ‘Maoists think tank’ Gokarakonda Naga Saibaba, have also challenged their conviction by Gadchiroli sessions court on March 7 last year. A division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Murlidhar Giratkar relied on the prosecution theory that “there was sufficient evidence to prove their involvement in Maoist activities”. The Gadchiroli court had convicted the Naxal duo along with their mentor Saibaba for aiding and abetting Naxal activities and waging war against the nation. Mahesh Tirki, Hem Mishra, and Pandu Narote are the other accused. All of them, except Tirki, were awarded lifer under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and for the criminal conspiracy. Tirki was awarded 10 years of rigorous imprisonment, considering his limited role and his first involvement. “The acts alleged and proved against the duo are of very serious nature, for which punishment ranging from seven years to life imprisonment is prescribed. The offences are not against individuals but of hatching a criminal conspiracy to wage war against the government of India. Normal practice of not to suspend the sentence needs to be followed in the absence of exceptional case being made out,” the judges tersely observed. While relying on the prosecution’s theory and sessions court findings, they added that both accused are found to be the servers in the link between alleged Naxals and banned organization — CPI (Maoist) and its frontal organization — RDF. “It indicates their role to identify members of the banned organization at the instance of alleged Naxals on the basis of secret codes, and to help or assist them in reaching their goal. The articles seized in the form of literature and their presence in functions of banned organization, along with other accused persons, show their close association with it.” Stressing on the fact that trial court findings establish the complete chain in which both accused are found to be vital links, the judges stated that if they are not released on bail, it would amount to breaking or snapping the links. “It’s a fact that the accused are found guilty and convicted by the competent criminal court, and the presumption of innocence in their favour has been lost. Merely because they were on bail during the course of trial, and that they have not misused the liberty, doesn’t per se warrant suspension of execution of sentence and grant of bail, as has been laid down by the apex court. Therefore, it’s not desirable to release them on bail.” Justices Deshpande and Giratkar added that they didn’t find that any exceptional case is made out. “Keeping in view the law laid down by the apex court and its applicability to findings recorded by sessions court, we’re not left with any option, but to say that no case is made out for suspension of sentence and enlargement of accused on bail.” WHAT HC SAID? * Charges against accused are very serious * Offences of hatching criminal conspiracy to wage war against govt * Both found to be servers between Naxals and banned organizations * Evidence indicates their role to identify members of CPI (Maoists) & RDF * Both also helped Naxals to reach their goals based on secret codes * No case is made out for suspension of sentence and enlargement of accused on bail THE CONVICTS Accused No 4 — Prashant Rahi Narayan Sanglikar, resident of Chandrashekar Nagar, Dehradun, Uttarakhand Accused No 5 — Vijay Nan Tirki, resident of Belod, Dharampur, Kanker district, Chhattisgarh CHARGES AND PUNISHMENT * Section 13 of UAPA Act — Punishment for unlawful activities Rahi — 7 yr RI; Tirki — 4 yr RI  * Section 18 of UAPA Act — Punishment for conspiracy: Rahi — Life imprisonment; Tirki — 10 yr RI  * Section 20 of UAPA Act — Punishment for being member of terrorist gang or organization Rahi — Life imprisonment; Tirki — 10 yr RI  * Section 38 of UAPA Act — Offences related to membership of terrorist organization Rahi — 10 yr RI; Tirki — 5 yr RI  * Section 39 of UAPA Act — Offence relating to support given to terrorist organization Rahi — 10 yr RI; Tirki — 5 yr RI * NOTE: All punishments carry Rs1,000 fine or in default six months imprisonment