KOZHIKODE: CPI (Maoist) has decided to strictly implement its decision that underground cadres should exercise caution while contacting their relatives, after the surrender of central committee member   alias   last week. Maoists believe that police had played a vital role in putting pressure on Jampanna through his aged mother after they realized that he had developed serious differences with the party leadership.

 Jampanna and wife Anitha alias Rejitha surrendered before the Telangana police last week. The Maoist leader had a difference of opinion with the party leadership and had aired his views at the central committee (CC) meeting held in   in February, 2017.
 
 The 55-year-old Jampanna was also the member of Central Regional Bureau (CRB) and   looking after Odisha state. He joined the Peoples War Group in 1984 and has over 100 cases against him. His 80-year-old mother is living in an old age home in Warangal. Maoist leadership suspended him from the party after he refused to correct his ‘wrong understanding.’ In a statement issued after the surrender, CPI (Maoist) said Jampanna's is a great betrayal at a time when the party is facing an all-out offensive from the enemy.
 
 The statememt said Jampanna is ‘seriously bogged down by individualism and overestimation of the strength of the enemy and underestimation of the strength of the people.’ After the CC meeting in February, the party alerted its cadres and leaders to be cautious while contacting their relatives after it realised that the kith and kin of the underground cadres are under police surveillance .
 
 The report of the central committee, a copy of which is available with TOI, states that “the police keep their surveillance in many forms on the families of all the comrades who have been working in the revolutionary movements.” The document asked the comrades not to “crave to maintain the relations with their families. The party workers have been asked to leave the decision to the committees concerned and to abide by their decision.”
 
 The document also asked the cadres to be careful about the police’s ‘wicked plans’ to effect surrenders from the Maoist fold. “They are deepening their efforts to dilute the revolutionary vigour of the revolutionaries through several conspirational schemes,” said the report. One of them is to make surrendered Maoists to write letters to underground workers ‘using old links.’ “They lure the comrades with many promises and illusions and compel them to surrender,” says the report.
 
 Realizing that some of the weak elements in the party succumb to these tactics, the party directed the members ‘not to maintain any kind of relationship with the surrendered wicked elements.’ The report says that the letters from surrendered persons should be handed over to the leadership and the ‘conspiracy of the enemy should be exposed publicly.’ Some Maoists, including Kanyakumari, who was operating under the Western Ghats special zonal committee, had surrendered in Karnataka in June this year. Police have been systematically spreading rumours that more Maoists are likely to surrender in Kerala.
 
