PANAJI: Goa   (GU) has been ranked 68th in the 2018 National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) of the Union ministry of human resource development (HRD), released on Tuesday. The varsity’s ranking has dropped by four positions since 2017. Last year itself it was a major slide for GU, from being ranked 20 at the first NIRF in 2016, to 64 in 2017.

 Goa College of Pharmacy has been ranked 37 this year, from 30 in 2017 and 23 in 2016.
 
 Last year, GU had written to the MHRD stating that the NIRF system is skewed in favour of bigger institutes and universities as comparison of faculty numbers and research papers produced by an institute is being carried out based on a purely quantitative basis and not on averages.
 
 “With each passing year, more institutes are entering the ranking. As the numbers go up, naturally the rank of smaller institutes will drop,” said GU registrar Y V Reddy. 
 
 “We will check the details of the ranking and try to stabilise Goa University’s position,” .
 
 NIRF’s ranking is based on five broad parameters — teaching, learning and resources; research and professional practice; graduation outcome; outreach and inclusivity; and perception. The maximum score a university can get is 100 and institutions are then ranked accordingly.   has scored 40.6 in 2018.
 
 Principal Goa College of Pharmacy Dr G K Rao said, “I am proud that among more than a 1,000 pharmacy colleges, our institute is ranked in the top 40. We have got sanction for grants from many funding bodies this year, and this will definitely improve our rank next year. States where pharmacy is a branch within a university, have also participated. They have eight to 10 branches on offer, so naturally their number of post graduate students will be much higher. But we have still done well on all the parameters.”
 
 NIRF, in its first rankings in 2016, had four categories — universities, engineering, management and pharmacy.
 
 This year, for the first time, medical, dental, architecture and law colleges were also ranked under NIRF. In all, over 4,000 institutions had applied for NIRF. A large number of private higher education institutions that were not part of the process earlier, have also joined the ranking this year.
 
 
