SHRAVANABELAGOLA: President   on Wednesday declared open the   of Lord Bahubali here, and extolled the key tenets of Jainism - sacrifice and non-violence. 

  Speaking on the occasion, the President said: "The ratnatrayas (the three jewels) of the Jain religion -   (right faith), Samyak Gyana (right knowledge) and   (right conduct) - are essential to make our life meaningful. Non-violence and sacrifice have the power to resolve all issues and crises." 
 
  
 
 
 The Mahamastakabhisheka is held once in 12 years. During the ceremony, the 57-foot-tall monolith is bathed in libations such as holy water, milk and saffron paste, and sprinkled with powders of sandalwood, turmeric and vermilion. Shravanabelagola, in Hassan district, is 157km west from Bengaluru.
  
 Kovind also heaped praise on Karnataka, saying he was visiting the state for the third time in less than a year after becoming the President of the country. "It's because Karnataka is doing a lot of good work," he added. 
 
 "When I was the governor of Bihar, I visited Jain heritage sites and met the saints," he said, adding the sacrifice made by Bahubali "is a guiding spirit for all of us".
 
 Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah, too, focused on religious non-violence, tolerance and sacrifice for the good of society. "Attending the   is a special feeling, a lifetime experience. The philosophy of non-violence is very much relevant today, especially since we are witnessing communal and caste clashes almost every day. No religion preaches violence," he said.
 
 The CM said: "We are human first. We can't achieve peace or development till we start respecting each other. Let's build a strong nation based on humanity, love and peace." He quoted extensively from Sufism, the vachanas and Jnanpith laureate Kuvempu.
 
 President Kovind's wife Savita, governor Vaju Vala, former PM HD  , district minister A Manju, Mahamastakabhisheka committee chairperson Sarita Jain and D Veerendra Heggade were present on the occasion.
 
 
