Trichy: It was literally a festival atmosphere at BHEL Township as local residents flocked to the area in droves to take part in the 11th edition of the Happy Streets, here on Sunday. The energy levels of the participants didn’t seem to even drop a bit over the course of the three hours and almost all of them said that they had been waiting for an event like this for a long time.

 Many expressed their gratitude for TOI which kick-started Happy Streets at Thillai Nagar 10th Cross   (west) on February 25, with the support of Trichy Corporation and Trichy City police. The programme started with the yoga session in which both adults and young children participated with dedication. A few in the crowd were found taking notes about the instructions for different asanas so that they could teach them to their family members.
 
 But it was the silambam performance by a group of young school students from Suruli Aandavar Martial Arts School that stole the show at the Happy Streets. The martial artists delivered an exhilarating show using props and even performed some of the risky moves with ease.
 
 Overwhelmed with the response to the show, police constable S Aravind, who runs the martial arts school, sad, “I am elated with the feedback. As gratitude, I would like to teach self-defense and basic moves for the participants in the forthcoming programme.”
 
 After the silambam performance, psychologist Dr Randeep Rajkumar’s talk on ‘Strengthening Interpersonal Relationship’ received a good response. The psychologist, who spoke in an interactive manner with the participants, emphasised how parenting can be a major determinant in shaping the character of children. 
 
 “Even as school students are under pressure to perform well in academics, it is important for parents to know the ideal way to raise their children. It is instrumental in nurturing them to become good human beings in society,” he told TOI.
 
 Class VIII student V Harshitha, who participated at the event, said that she loved the outdoor board games that were conducted at the event. “It was so refreshing playing snake and ladder as an outdoor game,” she said.
 
 B Karthikeyan, another resident, said that the residents of BHEL Township embraced the programme. He hoped that the turnout would be even bigger for the next one. “I am sure the twelfth programme would witness record crowd as people who attended this week’s event loved it and would advise everyone to attend it,” he said.
 
 The Happy Streets will be conducted on every Sunday in Trichy from 6 am to 9 am.
 
 Vox pop
 
 M Vijay
 
 After I heard about the previous Happy Streets programme from my friends, I was longing for it to be held at BHEL Township. I’m elated that it was held here this week and we already can’t wait for the next programme.
 
 Diya S Dilip
 
 Happy Streets is something which every kid would enjoy – especially during summer holidays. Right from cycle-tyre racing to cycling, every activity scheduled for us were so good.
 
 
