Though the Pune City football team didn’t make it to the finals of the Indian Super League, they walked away with their head held high, with determination to make it next season. From being labeled as underdogs the past four seasons, the team put up a tough game throughout the current ISL season, shedding that label. In town last week for the semi-final, we caught up with a few members of the team —   (captain),   (goalkeeper),   Panwar (centreback and left back),   (midfielder),   (centreback) and Kamaljit Singh (goalkeeper) — to talk about how they have upped their game this season and much more…

 
 
 
 Well, since we have played a couple of games here in the past, I learned to work with pressure. I am used to it. I know that my team is also good, so even though we were in a hostile environment, it was never that harsh for us.
 
  I had no worries about playing away from home or playing here. As long as your head is in the game, nothing can distract you. We have our very own fan base here as well, so we know that they cheer for us.
 
  Playing against BFC is always great, because they have been the best in the league this year. They have some really good players. We gave our best and we’re glad we made it this far.
 
 
 
 No, but it is definitely a huge responsibility and being the captain is never easy. But I am used to it. I have faith in my team. Even if I am not scoring, I try to assist the person who is trying to score a goal.
 
 
 
 
 I do miss home now and then, but when we are all together as a team and have one goal, we become really good friends. So, I don’t feel homesick that often.
 
  I am used to staying away from home. I was 13 years old when I was picked for the Indian team and have been away from home since. But, at times, I do get sad that I don’t get to visit home that often.
 
 In the beginning, I used to feel very homesick. But when I started playing, I realized that this is my job. I need to prove myself and my family understands that I need to achieve my dream first.
 
 
 
 
  I was on top of the world. Being a young player, it was my dream to play in the ISL, and it has finally come true. But the only thing running through my mind the entire time was that I should make the best use of this opportunity and prove myself.
 
 
 
 It was never competitive between us. I’ve seen my father and sister play football since I was a child, and they both were great inspirations for me when I started to play as well.
 
 
 
 My father was the one who got me into football; it was because of him that I started playing. It used to be exciting for me to watch him play football when I was young. I learnt the game from him.
 
 
 
 When I started playing first, I had no idea about football and its importance. I started playing serious football in school. That is when I started to get really interested in football. I use to play every day till I reached a good position. I played for the national team and for Himachal Pradesh. I received better facilities and better coaching, too.
 
 
 
 
 When I let a goal slip, I try to not be too hard on myself. But at the end of the day, it does get to me, because I feel that if I hadn’t to let that goal slip, the other team wouldn’t have scored a crucial goal. But later, I realize that mistakes happen, and I focus on rectifying it and making sure it never happens again.
 
 
 
 
 : I just like to roam around and visit new places. Otherwise, I stay at home, play video games or hang out with friends.
 
  I spend my free day talking to my family. I try to go out sometime to explore the city and try new stuff. Since I am away from my country, I try to make the most of being in a new place.
 
 
 
 
  My all-time favourite hangout spot in Bengaluru is MG Road. One can find just about everything on that one road.
 
  Whenever I am in Bengaluru, I visit the malls. Apart from that, I like to go to   as well. I have visited quite a lot of places here, having played for BFC for two years. 
 
 
 
 
  There are opportunities everywhere — all you need to do work hard. If you get a chance to play, give your 100% and never give up.
 Rohit: Football is flourishing in India now. There are many upcoming footballers and this is the right time to make use of the opportunity and showcase your talent. Make the most of it.
 
