AGARTALA: Manik   found himself alone among the ruins of the Left Front government that he had nurtured and nourished for over two decades. Even a fortnight ago, the picture was different. People discussed whether he would equal the leftist record of running a state, West Bengal, for seven consecutive terms. It didn’t take long for the illusion to vanishe.

 Humbled by BJP’s victory, Sarkar only had this to say on the day, “We have been voted out of office after 25 years. I thank all those who voted for us.” His party, CPM, stood by him and came out with a strident defence, accusing the victors of having used money power to swing the mandate in its favour.
 
 The CPM statement further read, “The party will carefully examine the reasons for this electoral setback and take necessary remedial measures.” Indeed, it will have to look deep because Sarkar too wasn’t able to fathom that the ground had slipped beneath his feet.
 
 With a bank balance of Rs 2,410 and cash possession of Rs 1,520 cash entered into his electoral affidavit, Sarkar had the reputation of being a painfully honest leader. He also had the image of a tough taskmaster and the man who had got Tripura rid of militancy. But the 69-year-old found himself confronted by corruption in the form of the Rose Valley chit fund scam and charges that he never developed the state despite rich natural resources like gas, rubber and bamboo.
 
 And this was where BJP struck a chord. At a rally in Sonamura, Prime Minister   urged the people to replace ‘manik’ (gemstone) with ‘hira’ (diamond) — the latter spelt out in terms of highways, railways and airways. In the end, the promise of a new dawn proved irresistible to a people who had waited ages for a suitable alternative.
 
 Sarkar joined the CPM at an early age before making his state assembly debut in 1980, at the age of 31. Though relatively young, he superseded many of the party veterans and climbed the ranks to become the chief minister in 1998 at 49.
 
 He was the recipient of one last salvo after the poll results on Saturday. Having wooed the Hindu Bengali majority, many of them migrants from the erstwhile   and later  , by promising them legal citizenship if they were Hindus, BJP’s Tripura incharge,  , reiterated a favourite theme. He had kicked off a mid-campaign row by suggesting that Sarkar be sent to Bangladesh after the election, and on Saturday repeated the advice in gentler terms. “Manik Sarkar is now free to go to West Bengal, where the CPM still has some presence, or he can go to Kerala or Bangladesh,” Sarma quipped.
 
