JODHPUR: Poaching may not be the biggest threat to black bucks and other wildlife in the state.

 A variety of causes, from barbed wire fences put up by villagers to stray dogs, poses a bigger danger for wildlife in Jodhpur and Barmer, and requires urgent intervention by authorities.
 
 According to veterinarian  , barbed wire fences and multiplying stray dogs are two major threats to ‘chinkaras’ (Indian gazelle) and black bucks in the region and, surprisingly, not dealt with in all seriousness.
 
 “When these animals go to water points in scorching heat, stray dogs lie in wait and attack them,” he said.
 
 “Sometimes, these animals become dormant due to thirst and are easy prey for stray dogs,” he said, adding that most deaths are caused by shock and injuries sustained due to dog bites.
 
 Wildlife enthusiasts and environmentalists have constantly demanded controlling strays and introducing effective rescue measures for antelopes, especially ‘chinkaras’, which are easy prey for dogs.
 
 They have also demanded an intensive sterilization drive to prevent the exponential growth of stray dog population.
 
 The Akhil Bharatiya Jeev Raksha Bishnoi Sabha has called upon its activists in affected areas to start a campaign to catch stray dogs and drop them at distant but safe places, arranging for their sustenance.
 
 Similarly, the antelopes get entangled in barbed wire fences while being chased by dogs and die from injuries.
 
 “They are very quick and cannot spot wire fencing. They just smash into them, get entangled and die from injuries, shock or dog bites,” said Rathore.
 
 According to a forest official, the department is helpless as they have only limited resources.
 
 Since these issues are local, the support of local people and village panchayats is important to tackle both the stray dog menace and wire fencing, the official said.
 
 “The villagers keep dogs to protect their farms. Many municipal bodies dump strays in villages after catching them from urban areas. Black bucks and ‘chinkaras’ are easy prey for these strays,” he said.
 
 The   had demanded the government to provide them land in villages to keep stray dogs as well as to sterilize them.
 
 “But this demand still hangs in balance. We are planning to take this forward by turning it into a movement soon,” said  , the president of Bishnoi Tiger Force.
 
 
