GHAZIABAD: The district administration has submitted a detailed report including an action plan to the ministry of environment, forests & climate change to deal with the issue of air pollution. This is in tune with a PMO-formulated ‘Air Action Plan - Abatement of Air Pollution in the Delhi NCR,’ which was discussed at a high-level meeting with the stakeholders in February this year. 

 The report also seeks strengthening of infrastructure for implementation of air pollution abatement action plan, for which the administration has sought an assistance of over Rs 102 crore from the ministry. 
 
 
  
 
 “As part of the Centre’s air pollution abatement action plan, we were required to submit a report along with the budget that would be required to strengthen the infrastructure to implement the plan. For that we would be requiring Rs 102 crore which we have submitted to the ministry of environment, forest & climate,” said Ritu Maheshwari, district magistrate, Ghaziabad.
 
 Earlier in April, the administration had sought only Rs 20 crore. “We realised that with Rs 20 crore, it would be very difficult to combat air pollution in the city as a number of projects are already underway including Phase 2 metro, Eastern Peripheral Expressway and the upcoming rapid rail project which is bound to have an impact on air pollution,” said Maheshwari.
 
 The funds would be utilised under various heads, including installation of three Continuous Ambient Air Quality Station (CAAQMS) and five LED display boards at an estimated cost of Rs 6.3 crore. To keep a check on dust pollution, the administration has proposed to purchase 14 mechanised sweeping machines, the cost for which would be Rs 11.90 crore. A total of 212km of roads could be cleaned using the machines, sources said. Vertical gardening and green paving would be done in 1,33,000 sqm, which would require Rs 6.9 crore. Also, 25 water tankers would be required to sprinkle water on stretches for dust suppression and the machinery would come at cost of Rs 4.4 crore.
 
 Apart from this, an area of 1,20,000 sqm would be required to cover using the inter-locking paver bricks and tiles, for which Rs 8.4 would be needed. In addition to this, Rs.64.36 crore would have to be required for maintenance for five years. The report also mentions the measures taken so far to mitigate air pollution in the city especially in the backdrop of the alarming situation in last winter when PM10 and PM2.5 constantly breached 500 mark, making Ghaziabad as the most polluted city in the country. “A fine of nearly Rs 1.4 crore has been imposed on erring agencies and departments who were found to be flouting environmental norms and over 1,500 polluting units have been closed down,” said Ashok Tiwari, RO, district pollution board.
 
 District magistrate Ritu Maheshwari said it would take four months to implement the action plan even if the proposed budget is approved. “If we manage to upgrade the infrastructure in time, we hope that the pollution scenario in the next winter would be much improved compared to previous years,” said Maheshwari.
 
 
