BENGALURU: What’s only a temporary inconvenience for the rest of the city is a daily reality for the residents of HSR Layout Sector 2 and surrounding areas. Early on Sunday, over 1,800 residents formed a human chain protesting the toxic pollutants and stench emanating from the Karnataka Compost Development Corporation ( ) plant that receives almost 150-180 tonne of waste from the city every day. 

 Developed in what was once a suburb, the KCDC is now in the middle of a bustling residential and commercial hub and its not just polluting the air, but also the ground water and the Somasundarapalya Lake, that is downstream from the plant.
 
 Irated residents formed a human chain from KEB Junction past KCDC, braving the sun and stench. Residents, schoolchildren, businessmen and senior citizens from neighbouring areas turned up at the peaceful protest held by the Kudlu Harlur Haralakunte Somsunderpalya Parangipalya (KHHSP) Residents’ Welfare Association, which has been demanding the closure of the plant for more than a year.
 
 Geeta Narayanan, principal of  , situated 2km from the plant said the problem has intensified over the past few years.
 
 “The windows cannot be kept open and several kids have come down with breathing problems. Children of schools in the vicinity have written postcards and letters to the chief minister but to no avail. When nothing was working, we decided to take to the streets,” she said.
 
 Residents also question why establishments were allowed to come up without any buffer being maintained. “Why was permission given for this layout without identifying a buffer zone? It’s the fault of the authorities for handing out permissions for additional buildings. The plant was established in 1975 and everything should have been planned properly. Allowing it to function like this is government apathy,” said one of the senior citizens, who took part in the human chain.
 
 While the plant receives an average of 150 to 180 tonne of mixed wet waste from   and Mahadevapura zones, its built with a capacity of processing just 70 tonne. KCDC was abandoned during 2008-13 and the stench spread as soon as it was reopened. Since then, residents have twice protested demanding relief.
 
 Lalithamba B V, a resident and member of the joint action committee formed last year with   officials, said: “The danger was the pile of refuse-derived fuel (RDF). There was a fire a year ago and with the summer approaching, its not enough to merely cover it with mud.” 
 
 Another resident,  , pointed out that when the plant was abandoned, it was being marketed that it would be developed as a mini-Lalbagh. “Many people bought apartments here thinking it would be a clean, green-lung space. Instead the reverse has happened. Composting rarely happens here, instead it has just become a giant dust bin,” he said.
 
 
