BENGALURU: The number of Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) registering themselves as 'overseas electors' has seen a two-fold jump in the last three years, as per the latest government and   data. But   has bucked the trend as only half a dozen NRIs have registered themselves as voters for the May 12 assembly polls.

 
 Joint chief electoral officer KN Ramesh said only six NRIs, including a woman, have registered themselves as voters from Karnataka.
 
 NRIs whose names don't figure in the voters' list have to fill Form 6A to register themselves as voters, but not many have come forward despite the Election Commission's efforts to create awareness among NRIs. Until a few months ago, only one   had enrolled as a voter from Karnataka.
 
 Ramesh said many NRIs may have enrolled themselves as general voters and many may or may not come here to vote. "We can't force the NRIs to register,'' he said.
 
 NRI forum deputy chairperson Arati Krishna said 8-10 lakh NRIs of Karnataka origin are spread across the world and 2-3 lakh of them could be eligible to register themselves as voters. While the blue-collared NRI workforce in Gulf countries generally show interest in Indian elections, those living in US and other countries don't show the same enthusiasm.
 
 She said there is a need for   organisations in Gulf countries, US and other places to take the initiative to spread awareness and make them vote in large numbers. "But the major stumbling block is that we don't have a database of NRIs. The   had made efforts to register NRIs in large numbers and has achieved some degree of success," she said.
 
 Kodagu-based IT professional Ricky Bopanna, who has been working for a software firm in Texas for seven years, said Kannadigas settled in the US have been showing lot of interest in Karnataka politics, but a majority of them shy away from voting due to their inability to be present in India at the time of elections. "I think the concept of proxy voting that is taking shape in India can reverse the trend, but it would take some time,'' he added.
 
 According to provisions of Representation of the People Act (Amendment) Bill 2017 introduced in Lok Sabha, overseas Indians who are entitled to votew in India can have a proxy voter to exercise franchise on their behalf. But the rider is that the authorised proxy voter is a different person every time.
 
