PATNA: Patna University (PU) will hold its first PhD Admission Test (PAT) on Saturday as per the new guidelines of the UGC (Minimum Standards and Procedure for Award of M Phil/PhD Degrees) Regulations, 2016. Nearly 3,000 candidates of different faculties will take the PhD   exam being conducted after a gap of five years.

 “The exam will be held at four different centres —  , Patna Science College, Magadh Mahila College and Nalanda Open University — under strict vigilance. Observers have also been appointed for each centre,” PU registrar Rabindra Kumar said on Friday, adding there would be two written exams of 100 marks each. 
 
 While the first paper will have multiple-choice questions related to general awareness, quantitative aptitude and general education, the second one will have questions from the subject concerned.
 
 The last date for online submission of application forms for PAT was January 31. “Candidates, who had cleared the test as per the old regulations, were asked to apply afresh. Teachers with at least two years’ experience and two published research papers were exempted from the PAT. Candidates, who had cleared the NET (National Eligibility Test), were also exempted from the test,” said the registrar.
 
 After the publication of PAT results, all applicants will be called for an interview and the final selection made on the basis of total marks obtained in the written examination and the interview, subject to the availability of vacancies under the qualified supervisors. Retired teachers will not be allowed to supervise any scholar for PhD degree, according to the revised guidelines.
 
 
 
 
  felicitates new teachers: In a first-of-its-kind initiative, Patna University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) accorded a hearty reception to at least 60 newly appointed assistant professors at a ceremony at Patna College seminar hall on Friday. 
 
 Patna Science College principal and PU science faculty dean Radha Kant Prasad presided over the function.
 
 Patna College principal Ezaj Ali Arshad, B N College principal Raj Kishore Prasad and Vanijya Mahavidyalaya principal B N Pandey recalled the academic scenario when they had joined as lecturers in PU and appealed to the young teachers to develop a cordial relationship with students.
 
 PUTA president Randhir Kumar Singh welcomed the guests while general secretary Abhay Kumar proposed the vote of thanks.
 
 
