CHANDIGARH: Haryana weightlifter   won a bronze medal in his first Commonwealth Games appearance on Friday. The 18-year-old lifted 295kg (136kg in snatch and 159kg in clean & jerk) in the men’s 69kg category at the Carrara Sports and Leisure Centre in Gold Coast, Australia and also became the youngest Indian weightlifter to win a CWG medal.

 “It was very tough and I think I was lucky to get a medal. I will try to improve on the mistakes I have made. There are some technical faults I need to improve,” he said after his win.
 
 As for celebrating his achievement, Lather said he would put that on hold till the 2020 Olympics. “I won’t celebrate right now, I will celebrate once I get an Olympic medal in 2020.”
 
 Deepak comes from a family of farmers in Haryana. His father Bijender Lather is a farmer in Shadipur village on the   state highway and has an acre of land where he grows wheat, mustard and fodder for the three cows he owns.
 
 “He (Deepak) used to be very strong even as a child. He could plough our fields relentlessly and used to lift burlap sacks of fodder onto his back. Those were very heavy sacks, I thought he should be a wrestler,” Bijender said.
 
 Since Shadipur didn’t have a gym, Deepak could neither pursue wrestling or weightlifting. In 2008, his sporting career started when he impressed during a series of trials conducted across Haryana by the Army Sports Institute and was admitted to the institute in Pune. Interestingly, he trained as a diver initially. 
 
 As it turned out, Deepak was disinterested in diving and found his calling when he was re-assigned to be a weightlifter.
 
 “The coaches told him diving is not for rigid bodies of Haryana. They are meant for tough stuff like wrestling, weightlifting,” Bijender said.
 
 Deepak’s father stressed that initially it was very tough for him to support his child’s sporting dreams. “Our yields only ensured that my family could survive and manage somehow. It was very demanding to support his (Deepak) sporting career. But once the Army Sports Institute took him under their wing, we didn’t have to worry. Then he excelled in the sport and everything fell into place.” Deepak also holds the distinction of being the youngest weightlifter to hold the national record as well. He held the 62kg category national record at the age of 15. His Gold Coast performance is again a personal best. Deepak will next compete in the Asian Games later this year, where he would have to again obliterate his present performance to win a medal.
 
 
