AHMEDABAD: N K Amin, the former Gujarat cop accused in the 2004 Ishrat Jahan fake encounter case, on Wednesday submitted to a special   court that he never fired from his gun during the encounter and reiterated that IPS officer  , who assisted the agency in the investigation, had manipulated the evidence.

 
  “I never fired my gun,” said Amin on Wednesday, arguing in person before CBI judge J K Pandya, adding, “The testimonies of witnesses produced by the CBI are not reliable, as some of them were accused-turned-prosecution witnesses.”
 
 Amin alleged that Satish Verma, a Gujarat-cadre IPS officer, who assisted the CBI in the investigation, had tampered with the evidence. Amin had earlier claimed that the shootout was a genuine encounter.
 
 The CBI had filed a chargesheet in 2013, which stated that Amin had fired five rounds at Ishrat and the four others during the alleged fake encounter.
 
 Amin also sought relief on the ground of parity with former in-charge DGP of Gujarat P P Pandey, who was formerly accused but has been discharged by the court.
 
 The CBI lawyer maintained that it has sufficient evidence against Amin and retired IPS officer D G Vanzara, another accused whose discharge plea is pending.
 
 Amin, who retired in August 2016 as SP of Tapi district, was given an extension by the state government. He was later forced to resign at the direction of the Supreme Court, after a petition challenged his and his co-accused Tarun Barot’s re-induction into the force.
 
 The court will hear Vanzara’s discharge plea on June 5.
 
 Ishrat, a 19-year-old college girl from   near Mumbai, her friend Javed Sheikh alias Pranesh Pillai, Amjad Ali Rana and Zeeshan Johar were killed in an encounter by the Ahmedabad police near the Kotarpur waterworks on the outskirts of the city in June 2004. Police had claimed the four persons killed were terrorists affiliated with the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba.The first chargesheet filed by the CBI charged seven Gujarat policemen — Amin, Barot, Pandey, Vanzara, J G Parmar, K M Vaghela and G L Singhal — with carrying out the fake encounter.
 
 While Pandey was discharged, all the others are out on bail.
 
