NEW DELHI:   is set to become India’s first airport to have   for its  . Nearly 50,000 employees — working in airport functions, maintenance, shops, eateries and ground handling — will soon be allowed entry by matching their   on biometric scanners. Paper airport entry passes will be done away with.

 A senior   official said: “This should ideally kick off in a month or so for all those with permanent AEPs. We are also enhancing the validity of biometric card AEPs to three years, against the current year-long passes.” While the process will be initiated in Delhi, it will be implemented at other airports soon. “Instead of iris scan, we will use thumb impressions as the biometric entry feature,” the official said. 
 
 This project is estimated to cost Rs 15-20 crore. The   (DIAL) did not comment on this till the time of going to press.
 
 “The biometric card duration of three years will be subject to the employee not getting his or her security clearance cancelled for some reason. In such cases, the entry will be cancelled,” said the official.
 
 Among Indian airports, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and some others are taking initiatives towards paperless entry for passengers. IGI, India’s busiest airport, is yet to take noticeable steps in that direction. Hyderabad and Bengaluru have experimented with Aadhaar-based entry for passengers.
 
 “Airports will invest in technology as it can lead to reduced dependence on manpower deployment of CISF. So, what they invest in hi-tech equipment or technology, they can save in spending on CISF deployment. They can even recover the cost of the new systems in a few years,” a senior official said. The government also feels increased automation is the only way to meet future security requirements — both in terms of quality and cost control.
 
 IGI is already witnessing a tiff over who will foot the CISF deployment bill with DIAL last August expressing its inability to pay the increasing costs. The force is seeking over Rs 655.4 crore as dues from DIAL.
 
 The “deficit situation (of funds meant for security) has worsened to such an extent that it has become extremely difficult now, for us to carry on day-to-day security related operation at DIAL…. In case the deficit continues to build up like this on a month-on-month basis, we shall not be able to meet even the mandatory expenditure to maintain security at the airport (sic),” DIAL CEO I P Rao had written to CISF last August.
 
 The aviation ministry had in 2006 allowed DIAL to charge Rs 130 from each departing flyer as passenger security fee (PSF) to meet expenses of this head. “While the receipts continue to be Rs 130 per departing passenger for the last 16 years, PSF expenses have increased substantially,” Rao’s letter stated. 
 
 
