For someone who made her film music debut in 1996, Dubai-based Roshni Suresh’s discography is sparse with long breaks in between. However, this year, she’s belted out two chart toppers - Mizhi Niranju in   and   in   – and attributes this to the comeback of melodies in Malayalam film music.

 Roshni started her career in 1996 with Mukesh-starrer Mr Clean, which had SP Venkitesh as the music composer. “I rendered the female version of the track Ezhu Malika Mele, which had KJ Yesudas sir singing the original,” she says.
 
 While the song became popular, her next big track was in 2014 for an album titled Mazhaneerkanangal under S Rajamani music. “Rajamani sir’s son Achu liked my voice and gave me a song in his Tamil film Urumeen,” she says.
 
 As fate would have it, her Mollywood return had to wait a bit more and a year later, Madhuranaranga’s director Sugeeth, who is her family friend, suggested her to the film’s music directors Sreejith and Sachin. “Initially, I was supposed to sing only the track Oh Thirayukayano, but after listening to my voice they decided to give another song Melle Vannu Konjiyo,” she says.
 
 She and Sreejith then collaborated for a Hindi music album titled Dhuun and recently for Shikkari Shambu. “All his tunes are different and he has a beautiful sense of music. Sreejith is able to explain exactly what he wants from the songs and that makes it easier for us singers too,” she says. “Also, Haricharan’s vocals in Mazha complemented mine well.”
 
 Ask her the reason for the gap between her projects and Roshni says, “It could be because I am based in Dubai. I think music directors believe it’s a tough process to ask us to come to Kerala. What if I fly down, render the song and it’s not good enough? I think that thought prevents them from calling me. But the truth is I don’t have any trouble coming all the way and singing.”
 
 Roshni, who is a mother of two and enjoys immense support from husband Suresh Balakrishnan, says she keeps herself busy by giving classes in Carnatic music as well as performing in stage shows in the United Arab Emirates as well as abroad.
 
 On the difference in performing in Gulf countries, she says, “There are two types of programmes here. One is for the ‘adichupoli’ kind of audience and the other for those who love the 80s and 90s melodies. Surprisingly, it’s the latter group that is large in number and if it’s a good programme they would listen for the entire duration of the programme and are immensely supportive of such music.”
 
 It’s a trend that she says is catching up with Malayalam cinema too. “In films too now, melodies are more preferred, which is a positive sign of change, especially for singers like me who are too much into the fast paced tracks,” Roshni says.
 
 The singer, whose hometown is Perumbavoor, has a musical lineage too. “My mother Rema Sreekumar sang with Ouseppachan sir and Johnson sir in the Voice of Trichur group. She is my first guru. After that I had taken lessons from All India Radio artiste Nedukunnam Vasudevan sir,” she says.
 
 Most of her songs have been romantic tracks. On the reason, she says, “I think it’s because my voice suits these songs better. However, I am game to sing in any genre.”
 
 
