BENGALURU: A man claiming to be chief minister Siddaramaiah’s “close relative” allegedly cheated a colleague of Rs 1.5 lakh. When he approached the   police, they refused to register a case, citing lack of evidence. But the man who was cheated moved a city court which directed the police to investigate the case.

 According to the complaint filed by Shivananda, a musician, Basavaraju, also a musician and founder of Sri Pataleshwara Samskritika Kala Trust, approached him in 2016 saying he could get him music event orders from the Kannada and culture department.   demanded Rs 1.5 lakh in return. But when no orders came his way, Shivananda asked for his money back. Basavaraju allegedly refused and began ignoring Shivanada’s calls.
 
 “He claimed to be a relative of chief minister  ,” Shivananda told TOI. “Since we performed at various concerts together, I believed he could get me orders. So I paid him the money. Like me, many have fallen prey to him, When we approach the police, they refuse to register a case saying the sum is too small.”
 
 In December 2017, Shivananda, after much struggle, managed to meet Basavaraju. When he asked for his money, Basavaraju allegedly told him that he had used the money for a function to mark Rakesh Siddaramaiah’s — Siddaramaiah son — death. He claimed he had bought books and pocket calendars to distribute to the poor. Basavaraju then allegedly told Shivananda to “take blessings of deceased Rakesh and leave”.
 
 To prove he was Siddaramaiah’s “close relative”, Basavaraju allegedly showed Shivananda pictures of him sharing the dais with the chief minister on different occasions. Shivananda used these pictures to move the 24th additional chief metropolitan magistrate court. On Wednesday, the court ordered a probe.
 
 When TOI spoke to Basavaraju, he denied Shivananda’s claims. “I have never taken money from anybody on the pretext of getting music event orders,” Basavaraju said. “It is true I distributed books in remembrance of  . I raised funds from fans of Siddaramaiah and also from people of my community. When I did not take any money from him, where is the question of paying back?”
 
 
