PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Dighi police have asked Rohit Kalbhor, the principal of Sayajinath Maharaj English School, to be present at the police station on Monday to furnish details about Thursday’s accident that led to 14-year-old Raj Kamble’s death. Kamble, a student, had fallen out of the school bus and had come under its wheels.

 The   (RTO) has already started its probe and is trying to ascertain how the bus door flew open, causing Kamble to fall out. 
 
 Initial investigations have revealed that an attendant was on board the bus, but he was at the rear of the vehicle. As per rules, a school bus attendant must be positioned near the door to assist the students getting in and out of the vehicle. However, this attendant was not the regular attendant, but a 21-year-old replacement sent by Dilip  , the bus owner.
 
 Dilip Gilbile, the owner of  , said: “My wife works as the bus attendant, but she stayed at home on Thursday for Holi. So I had sent my 21-year-old nephew, Omkar, as a replacement.” Explaining what Omkar was doing at the back of the bus, Gilbile said the children were playing Holi on the bus. “The bus driver had told me that the attendant had warned the students against playing Holi with water-filled bags on the bus, but they did not pay heed. So the attendant had gone to the back of the bus to control the children. At that time the driver applied the brakes and the door opened,” Gilbile told the TOI on Saturday.
 
 Anand  , the deputy RTO of the Pimpri office, said, “The investigations are on, but we don’t know yet how the door of the bus opened.” Gilbile had an explanation. He said the bus has a hydraulic door, which opens when the brakes are applied and closes automatically when the bus starts.
 
 Patil also said the RTO officials are yet to speak with the bus driver, who has been released by the police. It has also been revealed that the school had not entered into any written agreement with the bus operator, as stipulated by the School Bus Policy. Kalbhor said the bus owner had approached the school to seek permission for operating the bus in 1998, and an oral permission was given. Incidentally, the same bus is used to ferry students of another school. This is possible due to the staggered timing system.
 
 Earlier, Kamble’s parents met the school officials seeking details of the accident. The bus, which was seized, is still on the premises of the Dighi police station.
 
 
