Bengaluru: Police personnel in the city have become strangers in their own homes and common citizens have to endure long waits at police stations, thanks to the Indian Premier League (IPL) cricket tournament and assembly elections. The heady cocktail has meant the police force, an already stretched lot, needs to stay on its toes to ensure law and order during poll campaigns and cricket matches. 

 Majority of the over 16,000-strong city police force and the 2,000 home guards who assist them are now on ‘special duty’. It has made for long — often thankless — hours on the job daily. On an average, the constabulary — from the commissioner down — now works a minimum 16 hours a day.
 
 As a result, staff strength at police stations has drastically fallen and the general public who walk into stations with complaints, grievances and other tasks are forced to wait for long hours since officers are on special duty. “For an IPL match at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium, at least 2,000 police personnel are deployed in and around stadium, at the hotels where players stay and at strategic locations like parks near the hotels and the stadium,” an officer said. “For a match that begins at 8pm, these sleuths have to be in position from 2pm, directing traffic, sanitizing the stadium premises, and managing the crowd. If the match finishes around 11.30pm, police have to remain on duty till 1am.”
 
 The officer said personnel then have to return to their designated work areas at 7am the next day since most are on election duty as well. “During filing of nominations, our entire day is spent on the road,” the officer said. “Making traffic arrangements like diversions and setting up of barricades begins early in the morning. Handling the large crowd that follows a candidate and managing traffic at the same time is a big task.”
 
 In between, cops also have routine work to do like night and morning rounds, issuing warrants and clearing passport verifications, the officer said. Most cannot wait for May 28 by when a new government would be in place and an IPL winner decided. 
 
 
