Gurgaon: Traffic police have disallowed sharp U-turns at  , a make-shift arrangement to minimise confusion and streamline vehicular flow at one of the busiest junctions in the city.

 Following complaints from residents and a sudden rise in the number of accidents, the police have placed cones to prevent vehicles from taking U-turns right under the flyover along the NH-8. Instead, cars, wishing to take a U-turn there, will now have to take a wider circular route for the same.
 
 Explaining the new arrangement, a traffic cop said vehicles coming from Hero Honda side would take a right turn a little ahead now and use the lane being used by cars coming from the court side and heading towards the   or Sohna side. Then, they will turn right again for going back to Hero  .
 
 Similarly, cars coming from the three other sides —  , Badshapur and the court — will no longer be allowed to take a sharp U-turn under the NH-8 flyover at the crossing. Instead, they too will have to take wider circular routes in case they wish to take U-turns.
 
 As TOI reported on Sunday, the Rajiv Chowk intersection had become prone to accidents after the opening of the two new underpasses. Vehicles coming from four directions — old Gurgaon (district and sessions court side), Badshapur (or Sohna), Hero Honda Chowk and Shankar Chowk — were converging at the junction at the same time due to lack of traffic signals or signage. 
 
 
  
 
 This had made negotiating the crossing on the surface level a problem for motorists and bikers.
 
 A traffic cop said the new move was aimed at streamlining vehicular movement. “This is a trial and we are observing the situation. The idea is to see if the traffic flow can be improved without installing red lights in the area,” he said.
 
 However, the NMT infrastructure, both the underpass and foot-over bridge, are still not ready, forcing pedestrians to cross the roads on foot, negotiating vehicles coming from all directions.
 
 “If even one driver speeds, it is bound to cause an accident, and definitely a fatal one,” said one of the security official, appointed by a private company, who stands at the chowk.
 
 On Tuesday morning, a   bus was seen offloading passengers in the middle of the chowk, before heading towards the court side. This is a regular practice, in the absence of any traffic cop to check violation of rules. Also, people randomly cross the road to catch shared autos on both sides of the expressway, increasing chances of accidents.
 
 The main confusion is caused by traffic moving on the road from Badshapur to old Gurgaon. People don’t take the underpasses on the stretch and go straight ahead.
 
 A road safety officer told TOI that the problem would be largely solved if it was made mandatory for cars to take the underpass, reducing the volume of traffic. However, this, he said, would only happen with time. 
 
 
