PATNA:   smugglers have been innovating methods to dodge police ever since the   government declared Bihar a dry state on April 5, 2016. After LPG cylinders, ambulances, courier vehicles and cash transporting armoured vans, they are now using oil tankers for smuggling liquor in Bihar. Altogether 988 cartons of liquor were seized from three different places in the state in the last 24 hours.

 One such oil tanker was seized from Kritpura village under the Baikunthpur police station area in Gopalganj district on Friday. Altogether 236 cartons of liquor concealed in the middle of the three compartments in the tanker were recovered. The other two compartments were filled with lubricant. Even the tap of the middle compartment was connected with the two other portions so that if anyone wanted to check, only lubricant would flow.
 
 It took more than an hour for the police to find the liquor concealed in the tanker. Baikunthpur police station SHO Mukesh Kumar said the tanker’s body below the middle compartment was cut open and sealed with nut-bolts after loading the liquor cartons. “One could detect the concealed space only after inspecting the tanker’s chassis,” he said.
 
 “We opened the outlet points (taps) of the tanker but only lubricant came out. We had specific information that liquor was being smuggled in the tanker. So, after inspecting it almost for an hour, we were able to locate the concealed compartment which was shut using bolts,” the SHO said and added that its co-driver   (32) of Hisar in Haryana was arrested. The driver managed to escape. “The tanker has Haryana registration number,” he said.
 
 The SHO also said raids were being conducted to nab the persons who were to receive the consignment. 
 
 Meanwhile, 355 cartons of liquor were seized from a truck at Paharpur village under the Mahua police station area in Vaishali district on Saturday. Mahua police station SHO Bhagirath Prasad said raid was conducted following information that liquor was being unloaded in the village. “However, no one was arrested in this connection,” he said.
 
 In the third incident, police recovered 397 cartons of liquor from a rice-laden truck near Nawtolia under the   police station area in Begusarai district on Saturday.
 
 Sahebpur Kamal police station SHO Rajesh Kumar Yadav said the liquor cartons were concealed under the rice sacks. “The liquor was loaded at Amritsar in Punjab. On seeing the police, truck driver   (40) lost control of the vehicle which fell into a roadside ditch,” the SHO said.
 
 He also said Singh belonged to Terakhurd in Punjab. He said Bodhu Kumar (36) and Vikash Kumar (37) of Lakho village in the district were arrested in this connection.
 
 
