LUDHIANA: Mayor Balkar Sandhu has nominated new members for the town vending committee for finalisation of town vending zones in the city. These members will help the officials and a private company in selection of sites where vendors could be allocated designated vending zones. Almost after passing of one year to the beginning the private company hired for the purpose has completed the survey of vendors. But even now, vendors have been given one last chance to get them registered in case they were not covered in survey.

 There is planning to develop first vending zone in Ghumar Mandi. The private company is preparing the plans to develop the vending zones in this market which is also part of smart city mission. The company was assigned the task to calculate exact number of roadside vendors in the city on May 23, 2017 and after almost one year they could identify 21000 vendors at various locations. However now till May 21 they have given a last chance to the vendors. The company is expecting that number will reach 22000 at the most. 
 
 Meanwhile the new nominated members in the town vending committee included councillors Manpreet Grewal and Sunita Rani for zone A, Manisha Taparia and Gurdeep Neetu for zone B, Jaspreet Thakral and   from zone C and Baljinder Singh and   for zone D. However other members will be from health branch, traffic police, market association, NGOs, residents welfare association, banks, six representatives from street vendors. There will be four committees for four zones. 
 
 Sandhu said, “The councillors have been nominated and now vending zones will be identified where vendors will be allowed to sell items to public.” Notably, the civic officials are planning to generate revenue through these roadside vendors as after establishing the vending zones they will charge collecting charges from the vendors. The vendors will be issued the license to sell their goods in that vending zone. There will be three types of zones that is vending zones, no vending zones and partial vending zones (where vending will be allowed for few hours). 
 
 To be taken as box: TVC nominated members comprise one each councillor from SAD-BJP, no representation of   Party
 
 In the town vending committee nominated members the Mayor gave chance to one councilor from Akali dal Harbhajan Dang and one from BJP Sunita Rani while Lok Insaaf party councillors did not get any representation. In every zonal town vending committee two nominated members have been made the members. Six councillors are from Congress. 
 
 
