PANCHKULA: Problem of stray dog has spread terror among the residents of  , ever since they had bitten two women in Sector 10, on January 10

 The residents claimed that despite the efforts made by municipal corporation ( ) to curb the stray dog menace, the dogs returned to the area and continued to hover around the city resulting in horrible incidents.
 
 Local welfare association members said, it has become difficult for the citizens to step out of their houses due to a number of   on the roads.
 
 Houseowners also said the local stray dogs have emerged so dangerous that the senior citizens and children hesitate to move out without any supervision. The dogs often attack people taking a stroll on the roads or driving two-wheelers.
 
 In some parts of the area, the situation is worse as the dogs gather around the houses and attempt to attack people.  , a resident of Sector 7, said, “A stray dog keeps sitting around the staircase of my house, and attempts to attack people throughout the day. The threat has increased so much that one needs to muster good courage to move out of the house”.
 
 Another resident   said, “I literally had to save my life, after a dog chased me barely few feet away from my house. Since then, I carry a stick with me whenever I go out to scare them away.”
 
 Following the scary incidents, the residents have approached the Panchkula municipal commissioner, to put in efforts to get rid of the menace. While the stringent steps from the MC officials are still awaited, the the local residents continue to live under constant threat.
 
 Alok Kumar, a local resident, said, “Stray dog menace have become a severe problem. The menace is there in almost every sector today as these animals too need food and depend on humans for the purpose. Even if these animals cannot be removed permanently, the authorities should vaccinate the dogs to ensure that people do not get rabies.”
 
 Since many people are in the habit of giving left over food to the stray dogs, they expect food from others as well. The strays, hence, start following them and end up scaring them, said the residents.
 
 
