Vijayawada: The recent conversion of Vijayawada-Rayagada   into an   train has evoked mixed reactions from the public.

 This is not a one-off incident, even the Repalle to Secunderabad via Koduru and Avanigadda train’s conversion to express did not go down well with the daily wager community. Political parties like CPI-M had staged dharnas in the past two months against the conversion of Vijayawada-Rayagada passenger.
 
 Convenor of Fact Finding Committee For Social Justice, an activist body, Abdul Azeez, described the conversions as one with ‘malafide intentions’ on part of Indian Railways. “At the cost of reaching destinations quicker, the transportation of the poor has been affected. Now, the price of tickets have increased. This has jeopardised the routine of contract labourers, farm workers. They are all deprived of the only cheap means of transport at a time when inflation is going on,” Abdul Azeez told TOI.
 
 Following the railways’ directive, the   passenger became express from April 1. The Rayagada express did not stop at Powerpet Railway Station, where hundreds boarded. The passenger train was the main means of transportation for the poor who migrated from north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha to Eluru and   areas. Over 2,000 passengers used the service.
 
 Following the sudden decision of the railways, the daily workers have been severely inconvenienced. From signature campaigns to dharnas, several protests have been held, but the voices of dissent have fallen onto deaf ears. Officials seem to be helpless as it is a policy decision.
 
 “My workplace was at Powerpet in the past two years. My wife works as an agricultural labourer at another destination. This (passenger train) was the cheapest means of transport,” Ramudu, a contract worker residing at railway colony told TOI.
 
 The passenger train would leave Vijayawada daily at 9 pm and reached Visakhapatnam by 8 am the next day. It covered all satellite and small railway stations in AP and Odisha. The train tickets ranged between Rs 5 and Rs 10 for a journey from Vijayawada to Guntur but now the price has increased to Rs 35 and further distances it is much higher. “The price increase may not seem that much. However, the poor passengers who travel regularly are finding it as an unviable option. They cannot afford to give a significant percentage of their paltry daily wages,” Abdul Azeez added.
 
 "Everything has advantages and disadvantages. In terms of revenue and journey time, the express train has benefited us. It is a major advantage for the railways as they can provide more qualitative service through the initiative," S Arjun Kumar, a regular commuter.
 
 
