Trichy: Delta districts including Trichy turned into a battlefield as political parties resorted to protests condemning the Union government for failing to form the Cauvery Management Board. Police arrested Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) leader TTV Dhinakaran, farmers’ body presidents PR Pandian and P Ayyakannu as they attempted to besiege the Trichy International Airport.

 Hundreds of farmers gathered in front of the airport headed by TTV Dhinakaran, president of All Farmers Associations’ Coordination Committee PR Pandian and Desiya Thenninthiya Nathigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam state president P Ayyakannu and raised slogans against the BJP led Union government alleging that they betrayed the Tamils. When they attempted to barge into the airport, a large posse of police and CISF personnel intercepted them, which led to the arrest of the leaders.
 
 “We will not stop until the Centre constitutes CMB, as Cauvery is the lifeline of delta farmers. The Centre must pay to heed the demands put forth by the farmers and honour the Supreme Court order,” TTV Dhinakaran said. P Ayyakannu alleged that the BJP government was always against farmers. It should at least give respect to the Supreme Court, he added.
 
 Demanding the immediate constitution of the Cauvery Management Board, the ruling AIADMK had announced a token hunger strike. As per the list of senior leaders named by the party headquarters to lead the protest, deputy coordinator KP Munusamy, tourism minister Vellamandi N Natarajan, backward classes and minority welfare minister S Valarmathi and Trichy MP P Kumar participated in the protest held near Anna statue in Chinthamani.
 
 A large number of DMK men led by former minister KN Nehru staged a protest near Central bus stand. Police also arrested 30 cadres from Manithaneya Makkal Katchi when they attempted to stage a rail roko at Trichy railway junction.
 
 Meanwhile, normal life was affected as thousands of traders across delta districts downed their shutters on Tuesday expressing solidarity with the farmers demand. Shops and commercial establishments in NSB Road, West Boulevard Road, Chathiram and Central bus stand, Big Bazar Street, Singarathope remain closed in Trichy.
 
 
