Visakhapatnam: Even as the civic authorities are taking all measures to encure that the city is clean and well-maintained to get a better Swachh ranking, there is still a need to reach the outer areas of the city. Despite dustbins being placed in every street and steps taken to ensure proper drainage system, people residing in faraway areas opine that they are still facing a lot of problems due to the unhygienic conditions prevailing in many residential areas.

 It has become a nightmare for people residing behind the Shilparamam  , a park located in Madhurwada. Due to lack of proper drainage system, the waste water generated from the food points located in the park gets stagnant. This turns into a drainage soak pit which has become a breeding ground for flies and mosquitoes. Adding to the woes, the polluted water combined with heaps of food waste attracts dogs and pigs.
 
 Colonel Raman Joshi, an army officer residing in Madhurvanam apartment adjacent to the Jathara park, said all their complaints have been in vain. “Despite repeated complaints through the swachhata application and writing letters to the GVMC commissioner, my efforts have been in vain. To my astonishment, even as the same condition prevails, the complaint that was lodged shows ‘resolved’ by the sanitary department!” Col Joshi fumed.
 
 “I also lodged a complaint on twitter (social media platform) requesting the GVMC officials to look into the pathetic and unhygienic condition of the place. But even that has failed to move them so far,” he added.
 
 B Rajendra, a bank manager residing near the park, has a similar complain. “I lodged the complaint last month on Swachhata app, but no steps have been taken so far when as per the rules your complaint needs to be attended within 24 hours. Instead, the status of the complaint shows ‘resolved’, while the condition of the area remains the same. Moreover, the people who walk in the paved pathways have to bear the foul smell,” he said.
 
 Zonal commissioner P M Satyaveni told TOI that the problems would be resolved soon. “To ensure a proper drainage system in the area, the drains outside the park have already been constructed. The next step would be to construct drains inside the park and connect it to the main drain. We are at it and hope to resolve the issues soon,” he said.
 
 
