Ahmedabad: With directions from city police chief A K Singh, crime branch were working on nabbing the gang for a month and a half. On Thursday, they got a tip off that the gang leader, Bhajanlal Bishnoi, had come to Ahmedabad via Mehsana to steal vehicles. A crime branch team of six lead by Inspector Chavda began watching Adalaj toll plaza at 1am.

 “At about 2am, they saw the white SUV approaching. Constable Sanjay Gadhvi and Chavda rushed towards the car, shouting “Police stop”. Bhajanlal, who was driving, rammed the SUV into the cops, inuring Gadhvi, Chavda and Chuntaji Thakor. With the front door still open, he put the car in reverse and sped away,” said PSI A P Chaudhary, who was also part of the team.
 
 Inspector Kiran Chaudhary said that while reversing, the accused fired three rounds on the police vehicle and sped towards Amipura village. “When out vehicles drew near the SUV during the chase, they would hit out at the vehicle with iron rods and spears,” added Chaudhary.
 
 At about 3am, the SUV hit the dead end at Amipur village and stopped after hitting a milestone. Narayan Bishnoi and Raghunath Bishnoi were nabbed from the car while Bhajanlal, Prakash Jat, Naresh Ramlal and Arvind Bishnoi managed to escape on foot.
 
 “We stood firm and knew that the area was surrounded by castor fields they wouldn’t be able to escape easily. At dawn we saw Naresh Ramlal, getting out of water channel and moving towards the highway. On seeing us he started running. We chased him down. He had been hit by a police bullet in the hand,” Chaudhary added.
 
 DCP Bhadran and additional DCP Zala rushed to the spot and with help from local police cordoned off the area. At about 8am, we arrested Bhajanlal from Deesa Road. He was fleeing on a motorcycle. “We continued the combing with barricades and check points along the highway and by late Thursday evening were able to nab Prakash Jat, who had fired on police, and Arvind Bishnoi, from Deesa Road,” said Inspector Kiran Chaudhary.
 
 
