CHANDIGARH: While government school teachers and parents of Chandigarh students are happy about the proposal on 75% to 80% quota in Class XI admission for city students, the Panchkula and Mohali schools are a worried lot as they feel the move will make them lose their students from Class IX itself to private schools of Chandigarh as they would seek a Class X certificate which will make them eligible for taking admission in Class XI in Chandigarh.

 Panchkula and Mohali schools are of the view that the solution to the problem would be quashing quota system in colleges and treating Tricity as one like NCR. “This is not a good move. The entire Tricity should be treated as one and all students should get a fair chance. Reservation may lead to an exodus of students from Mohali and Panchkula schools, after class VIII, to join Chandigarh schools which will not be good for us. Mohali and Panchkula don’t have good government schools or colleges but they do have good private schools,” said  , principal of Learning Paths School, Mohali.
 
 
 With 85% of quota in colleges for UT students and 15% for outsiders, Panchkula and Mohali schools are already struggling to make their Class X students stay. “Parents are coming to us and saying they will shift their ward before class XI begins in the face of quota in Chandigarh colleges. This is an every year story,” said Jaya Bhardwaj, Principal Hansraj Public School Panchkula Nitin Goyal, president of Chandigarh Parents’ Association said, “It is a welcome move as it will give priority to Chand› garh students who are always left behind in admission season. If not a quota, UT should first ensure that no Chand› garh student is left without admission and then offer remaining seats to outside students.”
 
 Sources from the   said the chances of the proposal on quota being accepted are not yet clear as top officials have certain queries including the results. “The department feels that intelligent students from Mohali and Panchkula taking admission in UT would improve it’s overall board results. However, by doing so UT’s own students are being ignored. State should focus on their own students and let other states handle their lot.”
 
 Arvind Rana, a government school teacher who is also president of Sarva Siksha Abhiyan Teachers Welfare Association said, “If the proposal is accepted, then it would certainly help Chandigarh students. They will get admission in the first or second counselling. But it will be interesting to see if the proposal is approved as the UT administrator is also the governor of Punjab.”
 
 On Thursday TOI had reported that district education officer has sent a proposal for a quota in Class XI admission in the upcoming session.
 
