HYDERABAD: The Telangana government on Tuesday informed the   that it cannot receive notice on behalf of the Legislative Assembly nor can it take any instruction from the court for the purpose of passing the same to the Assembly. 

 The government also told the court that it cannot give any undertaking on furnishing video footage pertaining to the alleged violent incidents indulged in by the two expelled Congress MLAs in the House.
 
 When the matter came up for hearing on Tuesday, state's additional advocate general   contended that it was beyond the purview of the court also to issue notice to the Assembly. Informing the court that he was appearing only for the state of Telangana represented by its law secretary, the additional AG sought four weeks time for filing the counter in the matter. 
 
 Justice B  , who was hearing the petition filed by expelled Congress MLAs   and S A   challenging their 'unilateral expulsions' from the Assembly, however said that he was not inclined to give more than a week's time for filing the counter. 
 
 Justice B Siva Sankara Rao reminded the Telangana government counsel that the state was given time twice in the past.
 
 Advocate general D  , had last week, assured that he will file the counter and also provide the video footage as sought by the court. He was appearing for both the state and the Assembly. The court had in fact recorded the same in one its earlier proceedings. However, the government was not in agreement with the AG over the assurance given by him to the court.
 
 Government is of the opinion that, as AG, he can speak only on behalf of the state and not on behalf of the Assembly, thus putting the AG on a collision course with the state he represents. The AG has put in his papers over this tussle and the state is yet to respond officially on his resignation.
 
 Election Commission counsel Avinash Desai too took a week’s time to file its counter. Petitioners’ counsel Ravi Shankar Jandhyala argued against any further grant of time to the government.
 
 Though the petitioners made Telangana Legislative Assembly secretary a party to the case, no one appeared for him on Tuesday. Citing a 1968 Supreme Court judgement, Justice Siva Sankara Rao observed that the court would draw an adverse inference against those public authorities who refuse to produce the evidence before it being in possession of the same. The judge posted the case to April 3 for further hearing. Though there was talk that senior advocates from the Supreme Court would appear in the matter on behalf of the state, none turned up on Tuesday.
 
 
 
