VADODARA: Vadgam   and Dalit leader Jignesh Mevani made a surprise visit to the city on Tuesday and launched a blistering attack on the Vijay Rupani government as well as Prime Minister  .

 Taking up the Sankalp Bhoomi Smarak of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar project annnounced by chief minister Vijay Rupani last year, Mevani slammed the government for dragging its feet on its execution. He also threatened that the Dalit community wouldn’t allow Rupani to garland any statue of Babasaheb on Ambedkar Jayanti on April 14 if the government does not start work on Sankalp Bhoomi.
 
 Mevani dubbed the government as anti-Dalit and accused the   of following political untouchability as far as the community is concerned. He visited the Sankalp Bhoomi at Sayajibaug on Wednesday and met the local community leaders. “The local community leaders told me that the government had promised to develop Sankalp Bhoomi here and make a stupa. But the government is now working on riverfront projec ,” Mevani said, adding that he would also raise the issue in the assembly.
 
 The young MLA later addressed a gathering in   in the old city and trained guns at Modi by calling him a good actor. “When Modi addresses the country on August 15, I will also go live and give a speech from Vadgam. People from 20 countries will watch me. Then you will all know who is more famous,” Mevani told the gathering. He also mocked national BJP president   too. From love jihad to injustice towards dalit community, he raised several issues. He asked all the safai karmachaaris in the state to go on mass leave on May 1 as a mark of protest against the state government. 
 
 Rupani had laid foundation stone of the Babasaheb Ambedkar’s Sankalp Bhoomi Smarak that is to be built on Kalyannagar on the banks of Vishwamitri River. Rupani had said that his government has decided to build an unparalleled monument at the place where Ambedkar had resolved to work for the upliftment of the oppressed. He had said that the memorial would have a temple, contention centre, art gallery and a museum. It is proposed to be a major tourist attraction. 
 
 Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III of erstwhile Baroda state had sent Ambedkar to study abroad. He returned to serve in Baroda state where he had faced caste discrimination. Ambedkar had then resolved to work for the upliftment of the oppressed. 
 
 
