KOLKATA: Sale of non-vegetarian food — mutton, chicken and pork — has halved across restaurants in Kolkata, which has prompted the Hotel and Restaurants’ Association of Eastern India ( ) to issue an advisory to its members asking them to stick to buying   from only registered suppliers.

 The weekend, particularly, witnessed an unprecedented shift to fish and prawn even as vegetarian dishes, too, saw a spurt in orders. HRAEI members explain that rumours about carcass meat having made its way to city eateries from dumpyards near Kolkata are behind the sudden aversion to meat.
 
 The HRAEI issued the advisory on Monday. “All respectable eateries, including our members, don’t procure meat from dubious sources but we have still cautioned them. Some smaller eateries may buy meat from roadside vendors or suppliers from the city fringes who are now under the scanner. Frozen meat is now suspect and we have requested all restaurants not to use them as far as possible. But the drop in sale of non-vegetarian food is a worry,” HRAEI president Sudesh Poddar said.
 
 A central Kolkata eatery owner said most customers refused to order chicken and pork items this weekend despite being assured about quality. “The fear is very strong. Our patrons preferred even vegetarian food to chicken and pork this weekend,” he said.
 
 Several other restaurants said customers were frequently asking them whether their meat items were safe. Oasis on Park Street said their managers had to repeatedly assure their weekend patrons that all non-vegetarian food served at the restaurant was fresh. “Our regular customers were not wary but the rest were apprehensive. The sale of mutton items has dropped a little. But we have been telling everyone that we don’t buy frozen or processed meat and so the chances of contamination are zero,” owner Pratap Daryanani said.
 
 We carry out stringent checks on the quality of meat and carry out tests before they go for cooking. It has been made more stringent now. Some customers are wary and we are counselling them,” Oudh 1590, Chowman and Chapter 2 restaurants owner Shiladitya Chowdhury said.
 
 Prince Anwar Shah Road biryani joint Shamim Hotel has suffered more than 60% drop in sales. “On any normal day, we would procure 25-30 kg of meat. But, after the carcass meat rumour, the procurement has dropped to just 8 kg a day. It is quite setback,” owner Sheikh Shamim said.
 
  and Peter Cat on Park Street, however, claimed sales were not affected. “There has not been any significant change. Our customers know that the quality of food we serve is above suspicion. In fact, we check the quality of raw meat quite regularly and there hasn’t been any cause for concern so far,” owner Nitin Kothari said.
 
 Poddar, however, said it was better to be careful. “The city has a huge number of eateries. It is easy to sell poor-quality meat to them as many of them can be lured into buying cheap. We shall take strict action if any eatery is caught buying carcass meat,” Poddar said.
 
 Park Street’s   owner Salim Mohammed said: “The slump in our sale is not significant because of the reputation we have. But the rumour, which is spreading fast, might affect everybody if the government does not step in to stop the rumours.”
 
 
