Thiruvananthapuram:  , one of the major tourist attractions in the capital city, has received a facelift on the 2nd anniversary of the LDF government.

 Minister of ports, museum and archaeology Ramachandran Kadannappally inaugurated the event that witnessed the launch of a new mobile application, a web portal for the  , 11 KV sub-station, the renovated   and a new refreshment centre, on Wednesday.
 
 The renowned bandstand is around 138 years old and located near the rear gate of the museum. Even after regular maintenance works its roof was in a bad state. Now, the renovation works undertaken by the archaeology department has successfully restored the bandstand to its past glory.
 
 The minister also inaugurated the new online portal for the museum and the mobile application developed by the department’s ICT solution provider Invis Multimedia providing comprehensive data on all exhibits in the museum. The new facilities included a refreshment room with all necessary amenities for visitors, and the works were undertaken by Steel Industries Kerala Limited (SIKL).
 
 In addition, a new 11KV substation has been developed jointly by the KSEB and the public works department, which was also inaugurated by the minister. The substation is located near the garden office, adjacent to the main gate of the museum.
 
 Ramachandran, during his inaugural address, said the state government has been striving to raise the Napier Museum to international standards through various projects which were being implemented one by one. “The museums and heritage buildings should be preserved with the support of the general public. We have the responsibility to understand and preserve our history and to pass on to generations all information about significant roles played by noted personalities in achieving progress,” the minister said.
 
 Local MLA K Muraleedharan presided over the function. Museums and zoos director K Gangadharan, superintendent S Abu, ward councillor Palayam Rajan and culture department additional secretary Geetha K were among those who spoke at the function.
 
 
