TUTICORIN: K Kandhaiah, 58, a Sri Lankan repatriate of Ceylon Colony in the city who was the first to succumb to the police firing at the district collectorate on Tuesday, would not be a stranger to many. Pictures of his body with a shocked facial expression and sporting a blood-stained white shirt and dhoti lying at the collectorate were broadcast on news channels and had gone viral on social media. 

 “I too came to know that my husband was no more only through the television shortly after the incident,” said his wife Selvamani, 49, a homemaker. She lamented that her husband had come from   to India in 1981 to escape getting killed like many other Tamils. “But he was destined to get killed by a bullet here,” she wailed. Kandhaiah, a construction worker, was the sole breadwinner of the family. 
 
 Though everyone here knows that the man who fought for the rights of the common man is no more, his 27-year-old son Jagadeeswaran is yet to realise it. “The boy who has a learning disability since birth and he misses his father, whom he has been waiting for near the condolence banner near his house,” said his cousin S Roopkumar, 33. The family and residents of Ceylon Colony are worried about the boy as he has been refusing to eat since Tuesday. His father would not only feed him but fullfils his son’s every need. “Today, we force-fed him rice as he should not grow weak. He cannot talk but we are able to understand from his acttions that he misses his father,” said Selvamani.
 
 Relatives said that the man decided not to have any more children as he wanted to give dedicated attention to the boy. Jagadeeswaran would sleep hugging his father and has been spending sleepless nights since Tuesday. 
 
 The state had promised a job for a family member of those killed in the police firing based on their educational qualifications. However, Kandhaiah’s son is not only illiterate but also cannot go to work as he cannot take care of himself. His mother has to be at home to take care of her son. The family felt that the government could consider providing the job to a guardian to help the family.
 
 
