MUMBAI: India will soon join the growing league of countries where air passengers can make phone calls, send messages or go online while flying. The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India ( ) on Friday gave a green signal for the use of internet and   communications on board aircraft flying in the 9.6 million sq km Indian airspace (includes space above the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal).

 “Both internet and MCA (mobile communications onboard aircraft) should be permitted as   connectivity (IFC) in the Indian air space,” said TRAI in its recommendations. Internet services through Wi-Fi onboard should be made available only when electronic devices are permitted to use in-flight/airplane mode, it added. Mobile phones cannot be used when aircraft (in flight) is below 10,000 feet. An aircraft crosses that altitude within 4-5 minutes of take-off.
 
 Passengers on board airlines/aircraft that provide the option of internet and mobile connectivity will be able to log onto Wi-Fi or use their mobile phones to connect to the network service provider subscribed by the airline.
 
 A number of countries allow inflight Wi-Fi. Over 75 airlines across the world offer internet services aboard flights. These include carriers that fly into India, like Air France, KLM, Lufthansa, British Airways, Singapore Airlines, Emirates, Etihad, and Qatar Airways. Till now, either these services were not offered on board aircraft that fly into India or if they were, the services would be switched off once the aircraft entered the Indian air space. 
 
 With the TRAI go-ahead, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is expected to issue a circular soon, allowing in-flight Wi-Fi and mobile connectivity.
 
 TRAI has recommended that a separate category of “IFC service provider” be created to permit IFC services in Indian airspace. “The IFC service provider should be required to get itself registered with DoT and it need not necessarily be an Indian entity,” it said. The IFC service provider should be permitted to use either the Indian National Satellite System (INSAT) or foreign satellite capacity leased through the Department of Space. “To promote the adoption of IFC services in Indian airspace, the IFC service provider should be imposed a flat annual licence fee of a token amount of Re 1. The same may be reviewed and amended at a later stage, if need be,” TRAI said.
 
 “The regulatory requirements should be the same for both Indian-registered and foreign-registered airlines for offering IFC services in Indian airspace,” it said.
 
 Currently, airlines like Jet Airways and Vistara offer a library of preloaded content that passengers can download onto their electronic devices by linking to the airline’s Wi-Fi system. This service doesn't provide connectivity; so, one can't access the internet or make calls or send mails or messages from 35,000 feet.
 
 According to a 2017 study by global consultant Roland Berger, passengers in increasing numbers want to have online access in the air and choose flights accordingly. “On-board internet will serve as an additional sales channel through which customers will be able to shop, buy flight upgrades, or spend frequent flyer miles. In total, airlines could earn online revenues of about EUR 1.2 per passenger on short-haul routes, and about EUR 3.6 for those on long-haul flights. The income will come not only from monetizing paid-for Wi-Fi access, but also from targeted shopping offers, advertising and sponsoring,” said the study.
 
 
