AHMEDABAD: Eleven months after goods and services tax (GST) was rolled out, manufacturers and exporters are waiting on Integrated GST (IGST) refunds of around Rs 5,000 crore, the   ( ) estimates.

 In sectors such as chemicals, ceramics, textiles, manufacturers and exporters are reeling from a severe working   because of IGST refunds pending on goods they have exported.
 
 GCCI president Shailesh  , said, “IGST refunds between Rs 4,000 crore and Rs 5,000 crore are yet to be processed. This is damaging industry significantly.”
 
 Refunds of Rs 1,145 crore are pending for the ceramics industry alone. “Some 36,000 shipping bills are yet to be processed at Mundra port and the IGST refunds pending are estimated to be worth Rs 1,145 crore. Individual manufacturers and exporters have pending payments ranging from Rs 7 lakh to Rs 7 crore,” said  , president of Morbi Ceramics Association.
 
 “We have learnt that refunds have not been processed because data migration from the GSTN server to that of the customs department has not been done,” he added. While the government announced that refunds would be processed within a week of filing the GST return, it has been 11 months, textile manufacturers and processors say.
 
 “Even as the government has made a provision for IGST exemption for exporters, most textile exporters have been paying it on a monthly basis. This is because the process to get exemption is too tedious,” said  , president of the Ahmedabad Textile Processors Association.
 
 “Manufacturers and merchant exporters have been paying IGST all these months but refunds have not been credited. This has led to a working capital crunch in the industry, due to which doing business is becoming difficult,” he added. For chemical manufacturers, unprocessed IGST refunds are a double whammy, as rising crude oil prices has increased input costs. “Our raw material costs have increased, adding to our input costs. With such a long period without the tax refunds it is difficult to keep business operations smooth,” said Patwari, who also owns a chemical manufacturing unit.
 
 
