KOLKATA: Maa, please save me. Why is there so much blood?

 Seven-year-old Manisha Nayak, bleeding profusely from her head, muttered while she was being taken to a hospital from   on Sunday. She fell unconscious moments later.
 
 
 
  
 
 Manisha was one of the12 kids injured in Sunday evening’s ride accident at Eco Park and was also among the five who were admitted at a private hospital on EM Bypass. She has suffered severe head and neck injuries and is admitted at the paediatric intensive care unit while her brother, Riyan, 3, has even graver injuries on his head, ribs and shoulders and is still in ventilation. Three other children — Swarnima Kaushal, 7, and siblings Urvi, 9, and Yatika Sharma, 5, — are also admitted with multiple injuries.
 
 “Everything happened so suddenly that I didn’t know how to react. At one point, I felt I had lost my children,” shuddered Subrat Nayak, a software engineer who lives at   in Rajarhat.
 
 A close friend of Nayak, Sourav Mukherjee said Riyan even had a cardiac arrest while being taken to a private hospital in  . “Doctors suspect Riyan has clots inside his brain and are forming a medical board. As for Manisha, she underwent a CT scan on Monday. She has injuries in her liver,” said Mukherjee. An official of the hospital, however, said Riyan’s condition was comparatively better on Monday.
 
 Also at the hospital were sisters Yatika and Urvi Sharma. When
 met Urvi at the hospital bed on Monday, she was writhing in pain. “I can’t see my kid in such pain. They are suffering for no fault of theirs,” said their mother Priyanka.
 
 The incident has left Class III student   in such shock that she vows to never get on such a ride. Ileana’s mother Nandini said the authorities should have been more careful. “Now they are offering us financial support. We don’t need it. They should spend the money on upgrading the infrastructure so that such accidents never happen again,” said Chakraborty.
 
 Parents claimed the guards at the park didn’t even come to the rescue of the kids. “The inflatable ride had fallen on the kids. We somehow pulled it up and rescued our children. They were scampering all over and the children were in a pool of blood. When we asked the guards for medication, they said they do not have any doctor and offered a firstaid box. There was no help in sight,” said  , mother of seven year old Swarnima.
 
 
