CHANDIGARH :The possibility of AAP entering into an alliance with   to take on the   in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections may revive the former's poll prospects but a section of senior party leaders, including   have taken a serious exception to it.

 Speculations about a possible tie up were triggered by a tweet by the party’s Delhi leader Dalip Pandey, confirming that many senior Congress leaders were in touch with his party.
 
 Reacting to the conjectures, Phoolka told TOI that though AAP may decide to have such an alliance going by its own political arithmetic, for him the issue of 1984 riots was paramount. He we would prefer to quit AAP if it joins hands with the Congress, he said. “I have already made my stand pretty clear,” he said. 
 
 On the other hand, AAP leader of opposition   has said that he was not against such an alliance to take on the BJP in the next general elections.
 
 Sources in AAP, however, said most party leaders would be comfortable with such an arrangement if it brightens their chances of having a rerun of the 2014 performance, when AAP managed to get four Lok Sabha seats in  . “Even if Congress spares five of the 13 seats for AAP, it will be a good deal. As it is, two of the party MPs — Dharamvira Gandhi and Harinder Singh Khalsa — have been suspended for most of their tenure now,” said an AAP leader.
 
 A senior Congress leader, meanwhile, said AAP would only stand to benefit in Punjab by joining hands with it. “Punjab Congress president   had last month confirmed that he had brief talks with some AAP MPs in the Parliament and at that time this mega alliance was not even in the picture. It seems that the churning has been on for some time,” he said. 
 
 AAP’s fortunes have been dipping in Punjab. After winning 20 seats in the last assembly elections, it lost six elections, including four corporations, Gurdaspur Lok Sabha bypoll and now Shahkot assembly byelection. Many in the party see 2019 as the only chance of revival in Punjab — a state where AAP managed to win seats in the last elections. 
 
 When contacted, AAP co-president Balbir Singh claimed it was only a speculation and there was no talk of such an alliance. “I have got calls after the tweet, but there is no talk in the party on any forum,” he said.
 
 
