PANAJI/MARGAO: The Goa government on Thursday invoked the Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) prohibiting   and imposed section 144 of CrPC in the state against   operators who have given a call for a strike on Friday, even as the cabbies said they would go ahead with a “peaceful” strike.

 The government said it was invoking ESMA as it was “satisfied that in the public interest, it is necessary so to do” and prohibited the strike in any form in all transport services.
 
 Police have beefed up security in all tourist spots, airport and railway stations, while state-run Kadamba Transport Corporation has kept its fleet of buses ready to avoid inconvenience for passengers.
 
 Transport director Nikhil Desai warned the taxi operators that with ESMA, “police get the powers to arrest without warrant those who violate the orders and the RTO will be at liberty to suspend permits”.
 
  
  
 
 Undeterred by the government action, taxi operators said they would not call off the strike. “We’ll keep the taxis off road and assemble peacefully at Azad Maidan in   for our protest. We have the permission to hold our meeting at Azad Maidan,” said Vinayak Nanoskar, general secretary of North Goa taxi owners’ association.
 
 The taxi operators got the permission on Wednesday to hold a protest meet at Azad Maidan between 11am and 4pm, but are not allowed to take out a procession. A government official said section 144 will not apply to those who have taken permissions.
 
 Chief minister   had warned the taxi operators on Wednesday that they would lose their permits and subsidies if they resort to violence. The government has already declared the strike illegal. Several taxi operators were called to the police station on Thursday.
 
 The KTC has already made arrangements to ferry passengers to and from Goa airport to Margao and Panaji for Rs 100 per head and those beyond at Rs 150.
 
 “KTC has its buses ready to tackle the transport problem. Buses will ply from the airport and railway stations to Panaji, Margao and Vasco and if need be other locations as well for the convenience of commuters,” KTC general manager Sanjay Ghate said. Individual depot managers have been instructed by the KTC authorities to keep buses available at all times.
 
 “As a precautionary measure, some of our staff will be posted at the airport and railway stations to guide tourists and also gauge the situation in case more buses are required,” said Margo and Vasco depots’ manager Roque Luis.
 
 “We may send out at least 10 buses to the airport and railway stations to cater to the requirement,” said Panaji depot manager Prasad Subedar.
 
 In South Goa, police have put elaborate security arrangement in place. South Goa SP Arvind Gawas said while section 144 has been imposed in the entire district, 36 persons identified to be potential troublemakers have been issued notices under section 149 of the CrPC with a view to preventing any cognizable offence. “They have been warned to refrain from any unlawful activities,” Gawas said.
 
 Over 1,000 police personnel will be deployed at strategic places across South Goa on Friday. Besides 50 police vehicles and 46 police motorcycles will be patrolling the district, he said.
 
 “We have put in place 65 nakabandis for strict checking of vehicles and reining in anti-social elements. Also, 12 striking platoons with full riot gear will assist the district police in maintaining law and order on Friday,” Gawas said.
 
 A helpline number 2794100 has been made functional at the South Goa district collectorate, which will be manned by a police officer and one official each from the transport department, KTC, PWD and district administration “to ensure effective inter-departmental coordination and to help officials and citizens in case of any problem,” Gawas said, adding that all assistance will be provided by the helpline team to the people if needed.
 
 Stating that all police station in-charges have been directed to take video recordings of any potential law and order situations, Gawas said that strict action will be taken against anyone taking law in his hands.
 
 
