Exotic food flown in from  , cultural dance performances by a   based dance group and Fiji’s traditional beverages – this evening at New Zealand High Commissioners residence was nothing short of a Pacific treat for guests. The dinner, hosted by Joanna Kempkers, New Zealand High Commissioner, aimed to promote the culture of Asia-Pacific region countries. Satya Pal Singh, MoS,   and  , River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, was the chief guest at the event. Seline Leo-Lohia, acting High Commissioner of Papua New Guinea, Nilesh Roneel Kumar, CDA (Chargé d’Affaires),  ,  , Australian High Commissioner, Prof DP Singh, Chairman, University Grants Commission and Chitranganee Wagiswara, Sri Lankan High Commissioner were also present at the event.

  
  Joanna Kempkers
 
 
 Addressing the audience, Joanna said, "Two of my postings and almost half of my professional career has been in the Pacific region. All Pacific countries remind me of my home, whether it’s paneer and roti that I used to eat in Fiji or the vibrant colour clothing that people wear. The Pacific is a diverse region but for all that diversity, there are some common issues that the region faces – climate change, management of food stock, to name a few. Addressing these challenges requires a specific approach that should also be inclusive. The idea of this evening is to bring you a little more close to the Pacific culture so that you can experience the region’s rich heritage."
 
  
  Harinder Sidhu
 
 
 Talking about the exotic menu of the evening, Joanna said, "We have yellowfin tuna and prawns flown in from Papua New Guinea and lamb from  . The food is cooked in a traditional earth oven. For beverages, we have the traditional Kava drink from Fiji."
 
  
  Seline Leo-Lohia
 
 
 Satya Pal Singh said, "We aim to strengthen engagement with New Zealand, especially in the areas of trade and investment. This region is dynamic and has a lot of opportunities. Majority of the Indian students, who go to New Zealand for studies, acquire their nationality without facing much of a problem. The increasing number of students heading to New Zealand for higher studies shows that they are able to find good education at affordable prices."
 
  
  Chitranganee Wagiswara
 
 
  
  A performer from a group from New Zealand
 
 - Vibha.Maru@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
  
 
