LUCKNOW: 'PAPA' will have to dole out money if his   to 'BOSS' around on vehicles. 

 The regional transport office (RTO), Lucknow, has identified 25 fancy numbers which will be made 'paid' like VIP numbers. Reason: These registration numbers read like words when embossed in a stylish way on the number plates. For example,   4141 can be written as 'PAPA' and '8055' as 'BOSS'. Similarly, 0214 reads like 'RAM' when written in Hindi. 
  
 
 RTO officials said the proposal would serve dual purpose. First, it would discourage the practice of fancy number plates, and second, it would fetch additional revenue to the department. The proposal has been sent to the transport department for consideration. 
 
 In 2016, TOI had run a long campaign highlighting the rampant display of fancy registration numbers on vehicles plying on Lucknow road. The campaign had even led to a crackdown on such vehicles by RTO. 
 
 The registration numbers have to be written as per the specifications in Section 51 of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989. 
  
  
 Sporting fancy registration number plates is a punishable offence, but a meagre fine of Rs 100 fails to curb the practice among riders, especially youngsters. "Putting a price tag on such numbers might discourage the practice of stylish number plates," said ARTO (administration), Lucknow, Raghvendra Singh. 
 
 In the proposal, RTO has stated that fancy numbers are in high demand and added that people wait for weeks to get them and even keep their vehicles unregistered till they get the preferred registration numbers.
 
 Also, it mounts pressure on RTO employees to allot such numbers as there are many requests for the same number.
 
 
 
 The state transport department holds online auction for about 350 registration numbers which have been categorised as the ‘Most attractive numbers, ‘Most important numbers’, ‘Attractive numbers’ and ‘Important numbers’.
 
 The registration numbers that RTO Lucknow has proposed to make paid numbers are in addition to this series and may not be auctioned.
 
  
  
 
 
