Erode: The political narrative on the significance of Dravidian parties gained currency on Friday with DMK working president M K Stalin backing the concept of Dravidian land.

 “I welcome the growing support for the concept of Dravidian land. I believe that it will happen,’’ he told reporters at Perundurai here on Friday when asked about the talk initiated by several political parties on the Dravidian concept. Stalin was at Perundurai to inspect the preparations for the March 24 zonal conference of his party.
 
 Stalin’s comment comes a day after deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam praised the contribution of successive governments by Dravidian parties, which included the DMK too, for the growth of Tamil Nadu. “Certain political critics with myopic vision indulge in fallacious propaganda against the Dravidian rule. They are living under an illusion and daydreaming about destroying the Dravidian movement. To them, I want to send a clear message that Tamil Nadu has progressed much better than many other states and achieved stupendous progress on various socio-economic fronts during the last 50 years,” he had said in the state assembly during the budget speech on Thursday.
 
 The statement by OPS was itself seen as a rebuff to BJP, whose leaders have been time and again stating that Dravidian rule should be ended in Tamil Nadu. Kamal Haasan too had expressed his support for unity among Dravidian states. He, in fact, designed his party flag underlining the need for unity among southern states.
 
 Stalin also inaugurated a photo exhibition at the conference on the origin of Dravidar Kazhagam, DMK, Justice Party and the struggle by Dravidian movement for social justice in Tamil Nadu.
 
 Stalin earlier praised Andhra chief minister Chandrababu Naidu for walking out of BJP alliance, while hitting out at chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy OPS for not displaying similar commitment for the welfare of Tamil Nadu by putting pressure on the Centre.
 
 “It is saddening that EPS and OPS do not have a similar concern for the state even after watching the manner in which Chandrababu Naidu is fighting for the rights of his state,’’ Stalin said.
 
 The DMK working president, meanwhile, welcomed the Centre’s move to implement Sethu Samudram channel project.
 
 
