CHANDIGARH: The Federation of Sector Welfare Associations of Chandigarh (Foswac) has asked the   to extend the deadline for installing solar-power plants atop residential buildings in the city. For the owners of 500-square-yard and bigger plots, this deadline expired on May 18, and in a memorandum handed over to the   adviser here on Saturday,   asked for more days. 

 The association stated in the letter that residents wanted to install the rooftop plants but the circumstances were beyond the control of many. All resident welfare associations have suggested in a meeting of that the deadline for installation be extended for six months, which they say will enable their members to get solar-energy panels installed at their houses.
 
 Foswac general secretary J S Gogia said various associations had raised this matter with the federation and asked it to plead their case with the authorities concerned, so that residents could get sufficient time for installation. He said: "Many residents are in the process of installing these panels but have hit delays because of unavoidable reasons, which is why they ask for an extension."
 
 Sector-10 RWA organising secretary   said: "In my own association meeting, the members discussed this issue. All residents of the sector had received a notice from the administration to install the rooftop solar-power plants by May 18. For many residents, this was too early and so they requested the RWA to make a case for extension for their convenience." He said the resident welfare association of Sector 10 now planned to take up the matter with the department concerned and the area councillor, whose intervention he feels will compel the Chandigarh authorities to consider the demand.
 
 Rules mandate at least 1-Kilowatt solar-energy plant on a 500-to-999 square-yard plot, a 2-KW one on a 1,000- 2999 square-yard space, and a 3KW unit on a space that was 3,000 square yard and above.
 
 The time process is 10 days for application approval for plant, feasibility approval, and plant installation.
 
 
