KOTTAYAM: The #MeToo row over references made in the recently-published memoirs of  , wife of   member Jose  , took a new turn on Saturday as Shone  , son of MLA PC George, filed a complaint against her with the   DGP and Kottayam SP.

 In one of the chapters in the memoir, titled ‘The Other Side of This Life’, Nisha had narrated how she was “sexually harassed” during a train journey by the son of a politician.
 
 Reacting to that, Shone said in his complaint that the references made in the book without naming the person has put him under a shadow of suspicion. “If I am the person who harassed her she should reveal it,” Shone said. He alleged that Nisha, because of political rivalry, has purposely avoided naming the person.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Shone also claimed that he did not travel with Nisha by train from Thiruvananthapuram as mentioned in the book. He said he had travelled only from Kozhikode to Kottayam.
 
 Shone said the contents of the book were defamatory and that he would take legal action. He demanded a detailed probe into the ‘train incident’ mentioned in the book to “bring out the truth”.
 
 Nisha’s book mentions that “her tormentor” spoke of visiting his fatherin-law who was in hospital after an accident. It is clear that the person was the son of a politician who was “friendly” with Nisha’s family at that time. There are also remarks which made it evident that the tormentor’s father had an intimidating character.
 
 The book says that Nisha’s tormentor came and sat on her berth and did not allow her to sleep. The person would also brush his hand against her toes occasionally while shifting position. Though Nisha complained to the TTR, the official refused to act as he “feared the person’s father”. The TTR had also said that he may find himself in trouble later as both the individuals were political friends.
 
 Earlier in the day, Jose K Mani said that there was no need to create a controversy and that it was up to the author whether or not to reveal the tormentor.
 
 Nisha said that the bad experience was a closed chapter and that she was not interested in stirring up further controversies.
 
 
 
