BENGALURU/MYSURU: Journalist   Urs,  ,  , was   and illegally confined, allegedly by the supporters of Karnataka primary and secondary education minister  , when he was covering his election campaign.

 In a complaint to the police and Karnataka Chief Electoral Officer Sanjiv Kumar, Urs alleged that he was heckled, intimidated and finally confined in a room for about 20 minutes by Sait’s supporters, when he was on duty in Narasimharaja constituency in Mysuru city.
 
 Acting on the complaint, Kumar in Bengaluru said they have taken up an inquiry and appropriate action will be taken against those responsible for keeping the journalist in illegal confinement.
 
 The Mysuru police filed a case against the minister and his supporters under IPC sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation). 
 
 In the FIR, Urs said around 10.45am Monday, a group of Sait’s supporters manhandled and confined him in a home in Gayathripuram Ist Stage, and threatened him with dire consequences. “My scribbling pad was snatched, my pen was grabbed and three of his supporters who were part of the minister’s entourage, held my hand and shoulder strongly, preventing my movement. Later, they dragged me to a house, from the spot where Sait was canvassing. The incident has left me shattered and I have developed a fear of facing threats from them,” he said in his complaint. 
 
 Urs said the supporters literally obstructed him from carrying out his duty as a journalist. Sait’s aides heckled him and asked him why he was reporting about the campaign. 
 
 “The supporters threatened me and dared me to leave the area. When I made an attempt to leave the spot fearing my safety, they dragged me, heckled me, photographed me and illegally confined me in a house and insisted that I talk to Sait. He came and questioned me about TOI carrying an article on SDPI candidate Abdul Majeed, and accused the paper of supporting SDPI. He gave me a lecture about journalism,” Urs said. 
 
 Urs demanded action against Sait’s supporters for their misconduct. 
 
 Meanwhile, the Mysuru District Journalists’ Association condemned the attack on Urs and demanded immediate action against those responsible for the crime.
 
 However, the minister denied the charge, saying his supporters had mistaken Urs for an SDPI activist and he had helped free the journalist. 
 
 
