Students from a law university in   started an initiative to help revive the art form of  , and today they have managed to change the lives of 14 such artistes. From connecting the puppeteers with the market to providing training and organising workshops, their team is transforming the fate of traditional puppeteers. 
The families of puppeteers see a new hope in students like Mehul Sharma who are trying to revive the lost art of puppetry to help them earn a little more than what they usually get. What started as a small project to help four puppeteers has now become a movement which has changed the lives of 14 such artisans so far. All thanks to these students of Hidayatullah Law University and their initiative which is helping many communities of artists in Raipur. “Puppetry is such a beautiful and colourful art. It is so sad to see that puppeteers are slowly fading away. We should make an effort to bring back this art form. This can be used both for entertainment and education purposes,” says student of international law Mehul Sharma.
 
 Through their interesting working model of Kayakalp that engages students from first to the final year of their graduation course, the team members of Enactus have been trying to bridge the gap between the artists and the audience. Kayakalp has partnered with big brands like to organise workshops and training sessions for these traditional puppeteers. “It feels great to get the respect which has been lacking so far,” exclaims Vinay Bhatt, a puppeteer.
 He is one of the many puppeteers whose life has changed over the past two years. Puppetry has been their family profession for many generations. Over a period of time, the colourful art started fading away and the artists started struggling to get decent work opportunities.
 
 “We would go to private parties and schools. But the response was not so good. We would hardly earn Rs 2,000- Rs 3,000. Also, I guess people were bored of the usual shows, and with changing time, they required something more to the show,” Vinay says.
 “As the times are changing, there is a need for better skills and different stories. These workshops help them to gain th at expertise. Also, these artists perform mostly at weddings, theme parties, etc. There should be a permanent source of income to provide them livelihood on a regular basis,” says Puri.
 
 The revived scripts and interesting story angles have given a whole new set of opportunities to these puppeteers as now they get a chance to showcase their art in schools, communities, residential apartments, etc. “We assist them in mixing both contemporary and modern styles and help them to prepare the show on the themes of current issues which are appreciated more by the audience,” explains Puri. Not only this, the team also helps them with spoken English, by preparing websites and by marketing their work. Brochures and pamphlets are distributed to get people’s attention. “All this is funded by our various campaigns and competitions, grants and corporate funding. Ours is not an NGO model. It is a social enterprise and we want to make it self-sustainable,” she says.
 
 “After the intervention of Kayakalp, we have seen a positive change. Earlier we would work individually but now we have started working in a group. Also, we have learnt new styles of puppetry. We did not know about puppetry earlier, now we can make these dolls ourselves. We also make our own interesting scripts according to our audience and all this has been possible due to the support and guidance of Kayakalp,” says Raju Bhatt, another puppeteer who was already on his way to a show.
 The four puppeteers who were part of the pilot project have gained tremendously from this programme. Besides expanding their area of work and learning new skills like ‘muppet’ puppetry, they have also started conducting workshops and sessions for other students which gives them a chance to expand their expertise and also earn an extra income at the same time.
 Getting associated with bigger brands has helped them receive an overwhelming response and good media coverage, leading to more show offers. “Now we earn at least Rs 5,000 per show. We are more confident and can approach the parties directly. We are getting better contracts, and I guess this is our second innings,” says Vinay.
 The team also assists the puppeteers in learning other art forms to support their livelihood. “The idea is to connect these artisans with popular and established groups and help them blend the traditional stories with modern elements so that they have a wider approach,” says Puri.
 
