Chennai: Truck and bus maker Ashok Leyland (ALL) is cranking out an electric vehicle strategy involving tech-partnerships with startups and big ticket investment in R&D. 

 This will go hand-in-hand with fiscal discipline with the company reigning in capex spend and increasingly focusing more on its electric vehicle platforms both for domestic market as well as exports.
 
 “We are investing $1 billion purely on R&D, protos and pilots for our e-vehicle range. We are opting for tech-tieups like the one with Israeli firm Phinergy which is a range extender to be used to extend the range of any buses. We’ve also tied up with Chetan Maini’s SUN Mobility for swappable battery technology. Both tieups are R&D driven. We are working with quite a few startups particularly in the electric tech, digital space,” said Vinod Dasari, MD, Ashok Leyland.
 
 ALL is looking to rope in cutting edge tech startups in its push for electric vehicle R&D. 
 
 “We work with startups if they have the right technology but we have no plans to acquire any of them,” said Dasari. “Internally we have created around two to three startups which are growing well and once they attain a certain size we will look at monetizing them.
 
 The company showcased a 9 metre electric bus kitted with swappable battery called Circuit S at the Auto Expo and is looking to productionise and expand the range quickly. “We can make 10 metre and 12 metre buses, both AC and non-AC, both left hand drive and right hand drive,” said Dasari. “Our electric vehicle programme will run in parallel to our BS6 programme and we are looking to productionise our electric range in the next 3-6 months.” However, as of now the e-range is only buses. “We will consider other options later,” he added.
 
 And while right now the focus is India for the electric range, the company is also looking at exports. 
 
 “We already export 15-20% of our produce focussing on India-like markets and as India upgrades, the world is my market so why should I not export,” he said. 
 
 “We should be able to extend (the electric range) substantially from local sales to exports,” he added.
 
 So important is the e-focus that the company expects, over a period of time, to spend more and more on the electric programme. With negligible debt on its books, it plans to keep a tight control on expenses. “Right now, we’re at a negative net debt and we will continue to operate on a very tight working capital control and whatever we need for capex we will generate internally,” he said. “In FY18-19 for example, we will use de-bottlenecking, improved supply chain capacity to increase production to meet higher demand,” he added.
 
 
