NAGPUR: Keeping in mind the increased cases of landslides and with a goal to mitigate its effects, the Geological Survey of India (GSI) and Gondwana Geological Society, Nagpur (GGS) jointly organized a daylong national workshop on ‘Recent trends in engineering geology and landslide studies’ at Auden Hall, GSI, on Monday.

 N  , director general, GSI, IB Chibber, retired director, GSI, S Natesan, additional director general, GSI, central region, AK  , vice-president, GGS, Nagpur, A Thiruvengadam, additional director general, policy support system, GSI and Milind Dhakate, director (G), GSI, central region, were the dignitaries who inaugurated the workshop.
 
 Rao also inaugurated a semi-automatic thin-section preparation lab during the event.
 
 Speaking at the function, Chibber, an expert in engineering geology, said, “Engineering geology is a vast field which holds its importance right from something as basic as building homes and hence experts in this field are necessary.”
 
 “Slides can happen anywhere and sadly cannot be eliminated but can be treated, managed and stabilized for which detailed and well-planned study is needed,” Chibber said. He mentioned the importance of proper analysis on slide-ridden areas by competent people and of proper documentation. He expressed high expectations from the younger tech-savvy generation in the field of geology in years to come.
 
 Thiruvengadam and Chatterjee expressed concern regarding less experts in engineering geology due to frequent transfers of geologists from one domain to another. Rao encouraged the   community to unite and work towards their common mission. “Rather than charging for consultation, we must extend our services to earn our pride back,” he said.
 
 Further, two technical sessions took place wherein eminent geologists and geoscientists from around the nation such as K Jayabalan, deputy director general, GSI, central headquarters, Sanjiv Kumar, PK Gajbhiye, B Ajaya Kumar, MS Bodas and CD Singh detailed the delegates on subjects such as ‘Tackling adverse geological features during construction stage’, ‘Role of engineering geologist in nation building’, ‘Landslides in Maharashtra’, ‘An approach for landslide risk estimation on a macro scale’ and other. Every presentation and deliberation was supported with relatable case studies making the explanations easier to grasp. 
 
 ends
 
 
