KOLKATA: A stray dog was brutally killed by some people in Titagarh early this month.

 Twenty-two   were found dead on a single day in   in January last year.
 
 A woman in   was heckled when she protested after a car hit a mongrel in December last year.
 
 A group of “animal lovers” in Kolkata have now initiated an online petition to garner support among netizens for prevention of cruelty against animals, particularly strays, and strict penal action against those who resort to violence against animal lovers.
 
 “We are tortured along with the animals that are victimized on the streets. According to the Constitution, it is our right to take care of animals,” said a member of the West Bengal Animal Lovers Association that has initiated the petition. 
 
 The petition, which aims to garner support of at least 2 lakh netizens, has already mobilised substantial support. Several other organisations engaged with prevention of cruelty towards animals are already working towards creating awareness.
 
 “We have been trying to hold sensitisation drives with policemen,” said Deepankar Dasgupta of Animals and Us. “For animal lovers, police is the last refuge and if they do not help us, we have nowhere to go.”
 
 According to Deborshi Saha, an animal activist in  , one of the best ways to protect strays is adoption. “Our group advocates adoption of stray dogs. If each family takes responsibility of at least one stray, it will go a long way in protecting them,” said Saha. 
 
 According to NGOs, Kolkata has a population of more than 80,000 stray dogs. But the number is fast increasing due to a sluggish sterilisation drive, prompting many activists to blame the administration for not pushing animal control policies, including spaying and neutering, which would have possibly helped avoid some of the current problems. Though the   has facility to sterilise stray dogs, it does not have any infrastructure to monitor any cruelty against them. 
 
 There is a section of animal lovers who feel that online activism is fine for generating awareness but actual support is needed on the field. According to them, not even 10% of the support towards the cause can be seen on the field when a stray dog is killed or a dog lover is attacked.
 
 
