MUMBAI : City RTOs have proposed installation of ‘foolproof ’ GPS-enabled meters in over one lakh autorickshaws. An auto meter was found rigged in   few days back. The driver,  , who was booked for cheating, has been detained for questioning, police sources said.

 The RTOs have mooted a proposal to replace electronic meters with gadgets which will automatically calculate fares based on realtime GPS-enabled distance and waiting time.
 
 “GPS meters are difficult to tamper as they are based on   and will calculate the accurate distance travelled and time taken at signals to compute the fare,” a senior transport official said, adding that they could be introduced soon. The meters had been proposed in Delhi and Chennai. Each meter costs around Rs15,000 and manufacturers in the state can supply them, a transport commissioner office official stated.
 
  
  
 The meter will have a facility to print receipts, which will have the fare along with distance travelled and waiting time, the official said. “You can also track the   autos from a central control room and introduce a panic switch on the meters. This could be a safety feature for commuters, especially women travelling alone,” the official said.
 
 In Jogeshwari case, RTO and police found that four important seals were broken to insert wires to rig the meter. “We want to make it mandatory that in case any seal is broken, the software should hang and the meter should malfunction immediately. In this case, we may issue a notice to the manufacturer this week and tell the firm to introduce software to ensure meters hang if seals are broken,” said an official from the transport commissioner’s office. “We are also liaising with experts from   (Pune) to examine how we can introduce more security features in digital meters,” the official said. Meter manufacturers have said they should not be held responsible for seals broken by errant drivers.
 
 Police are likely to zero in on the kingpin of the racket, who had installed a secret switch and device in the auto to rig the meter. They will pick up other auto drivers in the cartel and identify areas where rigged meters are in operation, sources said.
 
 Meanwhile, RTO officials checked over 1,200 autos over two days in the eastern and western suburbs but did not come across any meter-rigging.
 
