KOLARAS: After assembly by-poll victory in April last year, Chitrakoot in November, urban civic polls in Dhar and Barwani in January – after consistent electoral rout since 2003, the Congress is suddenly on a victory march in Madhya Pradesh.

 But, while the ruling BJP is fighting tooth-and-nail deploying from Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar to chief minister  , ministers and the entire party organization for every election – the Congress is still contesting the polls by factions, each to his own.
 
 Kolaras and Mungaoli is largely the responsibility of MP Jyotiraditya Scindia because the two assembly segments are not only part of his Guna Lok Sabha constituency, but also falls within his Chambal-Gwalior area of influence.
 
 The same was the case with leader of opposition Ajay Singh in Chitrakoot assembly by-poll where he practically campaigned alone since he is the tallest Congress leader in the Sidhi-Satna-Singrauli belt and PCC chief Arun Yadav in Barwani and Dhar urban civic polls because he leads the Congress’ farmer faction in Nimar region.
 
 Till Sunday evening, Congress national stalwart and MP from   had not reached Kolaras to campaign for the party. Neither had former Union minister Suresh Pachauri while former chief minister Digvijaya Singh is totally off, taking the 3,300 kms of spiritual and personal Narmada Padyatra. Ajay Singh will reach Kolaras on February 20 for the last 48 hours of campaigning while state party president Arun Yadav reached here on Saturday.
 
 Meantime, Scindia is shuttling alone between Kolaras, Mungaoli and New Delhi holding public meetings and asking voters to “pack bags and baggage of BJP leaders on February 24, the day of bypoll, and show them the door.” 
 
 But herein lay the fallacy of the situation when BJP’s known and unknown faces are walking from house to house asking for votes, Jyotiraditya Scindia only had AICC general secretary   by his side during the campaigning. In contrast, minister for water resources and BJP government spokesman Narottam Mishra told TOI, “I have been working in the constituency over the past three months.”
 
 Mishra is not the only one deployed by the BJP on the field – at least a dozen ministers including Bhupendra Singh, Umashankar Gupta and Vishwas Sarang have been in Kolaras for the elections. BJP national vice-president Prabhat Jha has not left the two constituencies for weeks, being joined by Union minister for rural development Narendra Singh Tomar and MP Prahlad Singh Patel.
 
 Chief minister Chouhan made campaign trips every alternate day while the entire BJP organizational strength has hit battleground Kolaras and Mungaoli. 
 
 It is true that Congress put-up a massive display of unity during a road-show in Kolaras assembly seat on January 31 when party candidate was going to file his nomination papers. Kamal Nath, Jyotiraditya Scindia, MP from Ratlam and tribal leader Kantilal Bhuria, Suresh Pachauri, Ajay Singh and Arun Yadav was part of the road show that travelled for 25 kms from Badarwas to Kolaras with 500 vehicles and hundreds of motorbikes. But the united efforts of the Congress party ended soon as candidate Mahendra Singh Yadav filed his nomination papers.
 
 PCC chief Arun Yadav, however, denied that Congress leaders are absent from the bypoll constituencies. Asked why the stalwarts are keeping away from election campaign, he said, “All leaders who are required for campaigning are already here. This is an election being contested by the Congress party and not just the responsibility of one leader. Our senior leaders Kamal Nath and Suresh Pachauri will come to campaign soon.”
 
 And while the big leaders kept away, BJP took a dig at Scindia’s lonely fight. BJP national vice-president Prabhat Jha argued, “There are far too many chief ministerial aspirants in the Congress party”. 
 
 
