MANALI: Three people arrested in case of alleged caste discrimination against Dalit students at Government High School, Cheshta, in Kullu district during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “Pariksha Par Charcha” programme on February 16, were released on bail on Wednesday. 
 
 Manali DSP Sher Singh, who is investigating the case, said police had arrested school headmaster Rajan Bhardwaj, drawing master   and mid-day meal worker Dile Ram on Tuesday evening. All three were produced in the court of district and sessions judge   on Wednesday and granted bail, he added. 
  
 According to officials, more members of the school staff could be arrested in the coming days. They said aggrieved students had already recorded their statement before the investigating officer. 
  
 After the telecast of “Pariksha Par Charcha” programme, Dalit students who were not allowed to join other students in watching it, had made a written complaint to Kullu deputy commissioner Yunus. A group of Dalit students from Chestha school had written on a notebook that teachers discriminated against them daily during mid-day meal. They wrote that when they were taken to the house of a school management committee member to watch the telecase of PM’s address, one of their teachers,  , asked general category students to sit inside the house while those belonging to scheduled caste were made to sit outside. They said the place where they were made to sit was where horses are tied. They had complained that not only teachers but even the school headmaster supported caste discrimination. 
  
 A video showing students watching the programme inside the house and some others sitting outside had gone viral on social media. The investigating team had later visited the place that was shown in the video and even recorded statements of students identified in it. 
  
 Later, Kullu police had registered an FIR against the school management under Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Chestha school is reachable after steep climb of two hours from Pah Nala near Kullu. 
  
  
