NEW DELHI: Former India captain   has backed the Indian cricket team to stand up and be counted for in the third Test against South Africa starting today in Johannesburg, provided they pick the right team and get their batsmen to dig deep after collective failures in Cape Town and Centurion. 

 
 
 
 
 In his column for TOI, Srikkanth hoped to see Team India vice-captain   make the playing XI after warming the bench all tour. 
 
 “In my opinion there is nothing such as a ‘dead rubber’. Virat and his team should be pumped up to finish with a win at the Wanderers. When a team is 0-2 down, the obvious questions are going to be around what went wrong with the team combo. If I was the captain, I will not listen much to what others are saying and solely concentrate on picking a XI that gives me the best chance to win. Ajinkya Rahane in my list is a sure starter. Who the Mumbai batsman is going to replace is for the think-tank to decide,” wrote the 58-year-old.
 
 
 
 
 
 “India are the No.1 side in the world and they have shown that only in patches in this series. If they have to be accepted as the best Test team, winning the third Test will not be a bad start. The bowlers have done their job all right. Picking 20 wickets is the essence and that box has been ticked. It is now up to the batsmen to play their part.”
 
 Srikkanth, a former opener, hoped to see India’s opening pair lay solid platforms at the Wanderers after stands of 16, 30, 28 and 11. 
 
 “Whenever the Indian team has achieved success overseas, the one common factor has been the opening partnership. The role of the openers is two-pronged. One is to see the new ball off and then to make each and every start count. Unfortunately, the openers have failed to do both. Going in to the Wanderers Test, India should firmly believe that they have it in them to win. There is nothing to lose and this is their best chance to express their credentials freely,” wrote Srikkanth, who captained India in four Test matches and 13 ODIs.
 
