JAIPUR: Putting his own party government in the dock, rebel BJP MLA   on Thursday sought a white paper on the   refinery project of which Prime Minister Nagendra Modi had recently launched the commencement of work. He was participating in the discussion on Budget 2018-19 in the assembly.

 He said first the   committee which constituted to review the decisions of the previous Congress government in the last six months of its tenure had vetoed it and it has now been launched after four years. If the project was good, why the delay, he questioned in the assembly.
 
 He said, “You can’t take the people for granted.” The state government claims that it had saved Rs 40,000 through renegotiations which the former chief minister refutes. The truth need to be explained to the people, demanded Tiwari.
 
 Tiwari said he had differences with the government on the controversial draconian law (  (Rajasthan Amendment Bill) 2017 which put restriction on magistrates order probe against officials without government permission. He asked, what was the need of the government to refer it to the Select committee? He opined that the government should have withdrawn it.
 
 Home minister Gulab Chand Kataria then intervened and asked is the law not in force now? Kataria said, “The ordinance had lapsed and Bill is still under the consideration of the select committee. The select committee will take a decision on the fate of the bill.” He said as of now no such law is in existence in the state.
 
 Tiwari said the other one is the   Salaries (Amendment Bill) 2017 under which a former chief minister has been given the status of a cabinet minister for life. He said currently the chief minister has two residences. One on 8-Civil Line is the official residence of the chief minister and other Bungalow No-13 where the chief minister currently resides. If the chief minister do not like the official residence why not the current residence is made official residence, he asked. He repeated the charge that the bill was brought in to make the chief minister’s current residence for her lifelong use.
 
 The former education minister also took to task the state government’s policy of public private partnership (PPP) in education and medical. He said government schools and hospitals should not be handed over to the private parties.
 
 He suggested that the Annapurna Rasoi scheme should not be done as a private business opportunity but the government should seek the co- operation of community help and organsations. Tiwari also alleged large scale corruption in the Sanitary napkin scheme. 
 
 
