AGARTALA: Tripura's first and lone tribal CM,  , encompasses the state's Bengali-tribal divide in his very name. Born Dasaratha Debbarma on February 2, 1916, in a poor family in Khowai, he had been criticized by anti-Left tribal groups for dropping the tribal surname 'Debbarma' in favour of the Bengali-sounding 'Deb'. The Left, however, maintains that his name had been misspelt in the electoral rolls of the 1951-1952 general elections, when he became an MP for the first time. 

 In an election dominated by the 'tribal question', little has been said about a man who saw the gap - of population and sentiment - between tribals and Bengalis in the state widen. As BJP hopes to swing the tribal vote in its favour by allying with a party that till very recently sought to secede, a tribal legend and communist icon has gone largely un-remarked upon. "Deb's contribution to tribal uplift is enormous. He helped form Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council. He was against Twipraland," recalled Niranjan Debbarma, ex-general secretary of Tripura Rajya Upajati Ganamukti Parishad (GMP),  's tribal wing with a strong presence across 20 ST seats in the 60-seat state.
 
 In the heady days of the 1930s and 40s, Deb completed his education from Sylhet and later Calcutta. He took to spreading education among tribals through the Janasikhya Samiti. This alarmed the royals of the then princely state. The king cracked down and forced several, including Deb, to go underground, and the Janasikhya Samiti to morph into Tripura Rajya Mukti Parishad - an armed political organization that will later be renamed GMP. After Tripura acceded to the Indian Union in 1949, Mukti Parishad joined CPI en masse and ' ', as he was called by the tribals, began his journey with a party to which kings were anathema. 
 
 "Deb re-surfaces with a bang in 1952.The ban on the Communist Party is lifted and it contests the first   election. Deb becomes an MP but has an arrest warrant against him," said veteran journalist Subir Bhaumik, adding that then speaker G V Mavalankar had to request PM Nehru to lift the warrant against him. He was re-elected to the Lower House in 1957, 1962 and 1971 and became an MLA from Ramchandraghat (ST) seat in 1977.
 
 Asked whether Deb had to subsume his tribal identity to the communist cause, GMP leader Debbarma said, "He had a weakness for tribals but he also worked for others. In CPM, ethnic identities cease to matter. Comrade Deb and comrade (Nripen) Chakraborty built the party here." The Bengali-tribal divide, this time revolving around Deb and Chakraborty, came back to the fore when CPM won the 1977 state election. "Biren Dutta, who founded communism here, pushed for Deb as CM but the Politburo refused. They chose Chakraborty instead," said Bhaumik. He believes that had Deb been elected then, tribal extremism would have been controlled in its infancy.
 
 Senior CPM leader Gautam Das demurred. "A tribal CM may not lead to development. Mizoram, Nagaland, Meghalaya have tribal CMs. Tripura is doing far better," he said. It was as late as 1993 that Tripura got Deb, then in his 80s, as its first tribal chief minister but his term was marked by illness which eventually led to his death in 1998. He was succeeded by another Bengali -  .
 
 
