MADURAI: With various issues crippling the construction industry, Builders’ Association of India ( ) has said that it is high time the Centre forms a separate ministry to address these issues. The association has alleged that sand cartels have been involved in price gouging and added that the government has turned a blind eye to these issues.

 Key members of the association took part in the two-day managing committee and general council meeting, which kick-started on Thursday in   city. On its sidelines, national president of BAI A   and other key members met reporters and briefed upon the issues the industry is facing.
 
 At present 45, 000 sand loads are required in a day, but only a fraction of the requirement is available from the eight quarries run by the government, said A Puhazhendi. “When the builders book a load of sand through online it takes a month to get it. A load costs only Rs 1,500, but it takes Rs 7,000 to Rs 8,000 to bring it outside, due to rampant fleecing from local goondas and villagers. It is not that the state government is unaware, but it turns blind eye towards it,” Puhazhendi charged.
 
 Due to the rising demand, the price of M-sand has increased three-fold and the government has not taken any steps to restrict its price. Similarly, no action has been taken to control the price of cement. The companies have formed cartels and created artificial demand to increase the price now and then. “A contractor who is committed to a project gets into trouble due to the unexpected rise of cement prices. Price gouging is unacceptable, as they get the raw material at a cheaper rate from the government,” Puhazhendi added.
 
 The body criticised the state government’s move to stop builders from importing sand from foreign countries directly. While importing sand would save the natural resources in the state, members said that were baffled by the state’s stand.
 
 While the industry facing end number of issues, it is difficult to get issues solved with the authorities concerned. They said there has to be a point of contact to find solutions and a separate ministry would make it possible. The association said that they have been making representations to the central government with this demand for the past 10 years, without any success. The construction industry is second biggest employer in the country, only next to agrarian sector and employs over 4 crore people. They said that many face job loss as the industry has come to a near standstill in Tamil Nadu.
 
 Puhazhendi also criticised the government for holding only the contractors responsible when there is mishap like bridge collapse, like the recent one in Varanasi where 18 people were killed, without even conducting a probe. “When a structure collapses, it could be due to other reasons like faulty design or poor selection of place among others factors. Even government officials need to be held accountable and arrested for such mishaps, before holding the contractor entirely responsible,” he said.
 
 
