Mumbai: Expectations of good macro data, strong global cues and short covering in late trades on Monday pushed the   up by 611 points, its biggest single-session gain in over a year, with the index closing at 33,918. 

 With the industrial production data for January and inflation data for February beating   expectations, brokers feel the rally on   would continue on Tuesday as well.
 
 With a strong closing on Wall Street on Friday night, and no negative news coming in over the weekend, the sensex opened about 160 points higher at 33,468 and rallied through the session to close with a 1.8% gain and within the touching distance of the 34K mark. Market players, however, pointed out that the late surge in the index — a gain of about 200 points in little more than an hour —came on the back of short covering where speculators, who were bearish on the market and had sold short, had to rush in to buy stocks to cover their positions which further pushed up the sensex.
 
 According to Jagannadham Thunuguntla, SVP & head of research (wealth),  , after about a 10% correction from the all-time high levels mainly due to a whole host of negatives (especially from banking sector), markets had a good day with frontline   rallying nearly 2% offering much needed cheer and relief to the investors. The day’s rally was on the back of heavy short-covering from large caps, while mid-caps haven’t participated as strongly, which may suggest the current sentiment and muted retail participation at these levels. “While it’s difficult to believe we have bottomed out, it’s fair to say markets are attempting to find their feet,” Thunuguntla said.
 
 The day’s surge came on the back of a Rs 375-crore net buying by foreign funds while domestic funds were net sellers at Rs 465 crore,   data showed. The day’s session also added about Rs 1.7 lakh crore to investors’ wealth with BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 149 lakh crore.
 
 Of the 30 sensex stocks, 28 closed with gains. Of the gainers, Bharti Airtel closed 4.7% higher while NTPC closed 4.3% up and ITC 4.1%. Among the laggards, Coal India closed 2.3% lower.
 
 
