AGARTALA: The   on Wednesday issued the notification for the   in  . 

 Chief electoral officer of the state, Sriram Taranikant, said the process of submission of nomination has started and will continue till January 31. Scrutiny will be done on February 1 and the last date for withdrawing candidature is February 3. Counting will take place on March 3 along with Meghalaya and  , the other two poll-bound NE states. The election process will be completed on March 5.
 
 Taranikant said the   is ready to hold peaceful polling in the state and all arrangements have been made. He added that the EC has already appointed 25 general observers, 19 expenditure observers and 8 police observers. Of the total 25,69,216 voters who will exercise their franchise, 13,03,420 are males and 12,65,785 females. There are 11 transgenders. 
 
 As part of its commitment towards gender equality and greater constructive participation of women in the electoral process, the EC has decided to set up women-managed polling stations, at least in each constituency, where the entire polling staff, including police and security personnel, will be women, the CEO said. He added that Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) have been deployed to help police in ensuring free and fair polls. 
 
 Except the ruling Left Front, no other party has announced their list of candidates so far. The Left Front has fielded nominees in all 60 constituencies. While CPM is contesting in 57 seats, CPI, RSP and Forward Bloc are contesting in one seat each.  , who has been the chief minister since 1998, will lead the Left's campaign as its CM candidate. The Left Front has been in power since 1993 and is now fighting to win for the sixth consecutive term.
 
 On Wednesday, state BJP president Biplab Kumar Deb said the party's parliamentary board has not yet approved the list of candidates prepared by the state committee. "Prime Minister   is travelling to Abu Dhabi and is scheduled to return on Thursday. The parliamentary board meeting is scheduled on Saturday. The list of BJP candidates for Tripura, Meghalaya and Nagaland will be announced after that," he added. 
 
 Deb said state election incharge Himanta Biswa Sarma has convened a meeting with all leaders up to the block level at the Agartala Town Hall on Thursday to give final touches to the party's election and campaign strategy. BJP has already forged an alliance with IPFT and is expecting to do the same with INPT, another tribal party.
 
 The   is likely to go with   in this election. The party is also hoping to bring a few tribal-based parties on its side.
 
 
