KOLKATA: The Facebook page of Dum Dum Balaji Hanuman Mandir states it is 150-year-old. But the head purohit(priest) of the temple, Rishikesh  , claims it is older. By his estimate, the temple was built in 1818. For 200-odd years, his predecessors have been offering daily prayers there. But the apprehension that Saturday’s Hanuman Jayanti might turn into a BJP-Trinamool flashpoint has left him sad. “Why can’t they leave   out of these battles of political one-upmanship?” he wonders.

 Tiwari’s father Haridwarji (70), is equally unhappy. “We’ve continued the tradition ofbeing purohitsat this temple for about 10 generations. This is perhaps the oldest Hanuman temple in Kolkata. For us, devotion is the main mantra. Why are political parties trying to claim their stake over Hanumanji?” he asks. Preparations for Saturday’s celebrations at this temple are on full swing. The  , erected more than 200 years ago on the same premises, will also draw visitors that day.
 
 
 Both father and son insist their regular pujas are without any frills. A coconut, an incense stick, a hibiscus flower and prasadare all that’s needed to offer prayers there. Copies of the ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ — in Hindi, Bengali and English — are kept on shelves. Anyone can pick up a copy and recite from there. “For special pujas on Tuesdays and Saturdays where we smear the idol with vermilion, rose water and chameli oil, there are extra charges. We don’t understand this trend of brandishing arms for religious celebrations. This isn’t how we worship,” the father-son duo feel.
 
 At Lake Town, Bal Hanuman Mandir was founded by   (Lalbaba) some 45 years ago. Satyanarayan Mishra, who has been the purohitthere for 30 years, isn’t interested in how political leaders are celebrating Hanuman Jayanti. “We stay away from politics and don’t want to even talk about it,” Mishra says.
 
 Political fights over religion that threaten lives of ordinary people have upset the main purohitofUdasin Ashram at Bagbazar. Sujit Mishra (36) has been at this temple for 20 years now, after he came to Kolkata from  . “Our temple was built some 110 years ago.My personal idea of worship has no space for conflict or display of arms. However, I can’t stop anyone from doing that,” Mishra says. Worship of the lord, he insists, requires piety.
 
 The Newtown Ram Mandir has a 151ft-tall Hanuman idol which has been drawing visitors since 1980. Suresh Kumar Sahel of the temple claims it took eight years to make the idol. “Apart from ‘Sundarkand’ paath, Saturday’s celebrations will see abhishekofthe lord with 51kg milk. We will also offer 51kg churmaas prasad,” he says. Politics has no space in the celebrations. “Political colour makes no difference to us. All are welcome. With elections round the corner, political parties have joined the fray. I don’t like this vote bank politics over Hanumanji,” says Sant Maharshi (52) who came to Kolkata from Rajasthan.
 
