CHANDIGARH:   Police have approached the Punjab and Haryana high court to seek permission to withdraw the state’s security cover from   and   media in charge Randeep Singh  .

 According to the state government, 22 personnel were deployed with Surjewala, against the entitlement of 11 guards, as prescribed in the “yellow book”. State police have also argued that Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) guidelines stated that a protectee couldn’t be granted double security cover from the state and the Centre.
 
 It added that Surjewala being a permanent resident of Delhi, as expressed in the HC’s January 2017 orders, the Union government had provided him security. “Now, double security is in violation of relevant instructions and unnecessary burden on the state exchequer,” the state has said. The application, filed by superintendent of police (security) Maneesh Chaudhary and on behalf of the Haryana government and DGP, will be heard on Monday.
 
 Chaudhary submitted in the application that the “yellow book” laid down that a protectee under ‘Y’ category was entitled to 11 guards. He said the Delhi deputy commissioner of police (SG), through a communication on October 16, 2017, communicated that Surjewala had been provided 11 personnel as he was a permanent resident of Niti Bagh, New Delhi. “Through a reference bearing F No. 23014/285/2011-VS, addressed to all chief secretaries of the states/UTs, it has been clarified by the MHA that many individuals are provided categorized security by the state as well as the Centre. In any condition, double protection to an individual should not be provided. Further, armed guard component shall be deployed only at principal residence of the protectee,” state police submitted.
 
 Haryana Police had to approach the court for withdrawal of security cover from Surjewala because Justice Amit Rawal, in March 2017, had ordered that in case the Centre or the state deemed appropriate to change the category of his security cover, permission from the court had to be sought.
 
 The matter had reached before the HC after Surjewala had filed a petition to demand security by central paramilitary forces on the grounds that he had a threat to his life because of his “proactive role in formation of separate Sikh gurdwara management committee in Haryana”.
 
 
