BAREILLY: After beating Prime Minster Narendra Modi’s constituency, Varanasi,   has jumped to the third spot from the 69th position on state performance index. The rankings for the month of April were released on Thursday. Chief development officer (CDO)   said that with rigorous monitoring of all departments and special focus on worst-performing areas in the month of March, they managed to achieve the third position in the state.
 
  On five different scales, of 575 total points, Bareilly managed to secure 308 points at 53.57%. On last month’s index,   is on the top with 60.56%, followed by chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s constituency, Gorakhpur, with 53.83%.
  
  Happy with the improved performance, the CDO said, “All credit goes to our strict monitoring of each and every department. We encouraged the good performers as well as issued warnings to the lethargic ones time and again and ensured that all department heads were feeding data online on time. We are quite confident that we will be able to hold on to this position in the coming months as there is no scarcity of funds for government schemes and all developmental works are in progress at the right pace.”
  
  The state government had started evaluating the progress of all 75 districts on a 136-point scale from March 2018. All 60 departments have been assigned different schemes with every scheme carrying five points.
  
  “Earlier, there was a grading system. But now, the progress of every district is being evaluated on the 136-point scale. Besides, every department will have to send their progress report directly to the government unlike the previous system when the report was sent through our office after compiling data collected from all departments,” the CDO added.
  
  Notably, in March, police department, which was supposed to send self-evaluation report on 12 points, drew a zero out of 60 marks as no report was sent to the government. Due to this, the district had slipped to 69th position, causing embarrassment to the administration.
