HYDERABAD: The refusal of Facebook to part with Internet Protocol (IP) addresses is preventing Hyderabad   Cybercrime sleuths from bringing to book the persons who are posting offensive, abusive and communally sensitive comments on their accounts on the social media website. Because of Facebook's non-cooperation, CCS sleuths now have no option but close 17 cases from the city booked against persons who posted such comments. 

 However, with regard to one case where a person posted abusive comments against chief minister  , after FB refused to provide the IP address of the person who posted the comment, cyber sleuths have decided to invoke the Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty and written to   seeking the information and are awaiting the same.
 
 "  police initially registered a case on November 13, 2017, based on a complaint. Subsequently, CCS Cyber Crime registered a fresh case regarding a Facebook Id- Ramakrishna who posted offensive video and language against the chief minister. As Facebook turned down our request to provide the IP address, we have filed a request to Interpol using MLTA with the  ," a CCS official told TOI on condition of anonymity.
 
 However, with regard to 17 other FIRs registered by the Special Investigation Team and CCS Cyber Crime Police station, the sleuths have no option but to close the cases due to non-cooperation by Facebook.
 
 
 
 
 According to SIT sources, at least 10 cases relate to communally sensitive comments that may hurt the sentiments of other religions. SIT booked criminal cases against several persons using Facebook IDs like Kichakudu and Vijay Kumar Kanhaniya under IPC Section 295 A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and Section 153 AIPC (promoting enmity between different groups with words or visible representations).
 
 Facebook parted with the IP addresses in seven cases related to abuse of women and sexual harassment.
 
 “If the IP address is outside the country, FB never parts with the information. It is not possible to identify the accused unless FB discloses the login and logout IP address. But FB has been consistent in not revealing the IP addresses in political and religious cases. Even a case, where several corporators from the city complained about a post hurting religious sentiments, was rejected. In the absence of the IP address, we can use tracker software and emails and messages to identify the culprits. However, this would not be admissible as evidence in the court. We would need an official report from FB as evidence to pursue the case,” said the official.
 
 Apart from these FIRs, Hyderabad City police Special Branch (R&D) cell monitors social media, particularly IDs and postings related to Hyderabad where communally and religiously sensitive videos and posts surface. Where offensive posts are detected, the information is sent to the social media giants via the intelligence department seeking deletion of the URLs. Around 3,000 such URLs were deleted in 2017. “But the IP address is not forthcoming,” said a source.
 
