CHENNAI: Transport minister M R Vijayabaskar on Tuesday conceded that at least half its fleet plying in the rural areas were running on losses. The transport minister’s statement comes in the wake of strident criticism from the opposition for doing little to resolve the ongoing strike by transport unions supported by DMK and CPM. They are demanding settling pending dues to retired and serving staff and better pay revision. 

 The first bench of the high court on Monday transferred a PIL on the ongoing transport strike to a division bench to decide on the legality of the strike. The case is likely to be taken up for hearing on Wednesday. “Of the total fleet strength of 22,000, half of it operated in rural areas did not make profit at all. Our corporation is not profit-oriented but service-minded. We have released Rs 1,750 crore towards pending retirement dues this year, and our government also paid the arrears of the previous DMK regime,” Vijayabaskar said, reiterating that the 13th   between the government and transport unions was historic, though the state incurs an additional burden of Rs 1,000 crore a year. 
 
  
 
 The ongoing strike crippled the state public transport with 76.5% of the fleet being operated until Tuesday evening. In Chennai, only 35% of the fleet was operated. Armed with high court order to workers to resume work, the transport department has been issuing notices to staff (drivers and conductors), who have been boycotting work. At least 60,000 of the 1.39 lakh workforce, including 15,000 in Chennai, has been served with seven-day notices, seeking explanation on why action should not be taken despite court orders, and causing inconvenience to the public and bringing disrepute to the corporations, sources say. Mounting debt and losses, with no revision of fares, keeps the transport corporations on their toes. “Our fare of 42p/km is the least among southern states,” Vijayabaskar said.
 
 For instance, the mofussil bus fare in   is 63p/km, while 59p/km and 64p/km in Karnataka and Kerala respectively. For his part, chief minister   appealed to the opposition DMK to help facilitate the transport unions and workers to resume work as the strike affected women, children and office-goers extensively. “I endorsed the talks held by the transport minister with the trade unions,” he said, responding to DMK leader M K Stalin’s plea to hold talks with the transport unions directly. While the state held 23 meetings with union representatives and continues to hald talks, deputy chief minister   alleged that DMK and CPM-affiliated LPF and   and allies resorted to strike by spreading rumours of deadlock through social media platform, Whatsapp.
 
 
