NAGPUR: Coming to the rescue of a husband, the Nagpur bench of Bombay   directed the Hingna police to defreeze his two bank accounts making it clear that his name was not mentioned in the FIR lodged against wife and daughter.

 Pointing out towards non-compliance of Section 102 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) by the cops, the court quashed Hingna Judicial Magistrate First Class’ (JMFC) orders of rejecting petitioner’s appeal in this regard. The JMFC upheld police action of freezing his accounts in the   and   (SBI) for probing alleged charges against his wife.
 
 “It’s evident that there is non-compliance of Section 102. Moreover, no report was forwarded to the JMFC informing the action taken under same section. Even otherwise, there are no allegations against the petitioner and FIR is lodged only as against his wife and daughter,” a single-judge bench comprising justice Revati Mohite Dere said.
 
 A police complaint was lodged at   against petitioner’s wife and daughter on March 30 last year, under Section 406 for criminal breach of trust. Eight months later, the police froze two bank accounts of the petitioner at UBI and SBI under the pretext of investigations. Neither the charge sheet was filed in the case nor the husband was made an accused.
 
 On November 13, petitioner V Dange, a resident of  , preferred an application before the JMFC for defreezing both accounts where Rs1.46 lakh were kept with SBI and Rs1.30 lakh with UBI. He contended that no notice was given by the police that his bank accounts were going to be freezed, nor was there compliance of Section 102 of CrPC where the concerned police officer, on seizing the property, is required to report the same to the magistrate having jurisdiction.
 
 However, the husband’s application was rejected on July 7, which he challenged in HC through counsel  . He also sought action/enquiry against the investigating officer for failure to inform the magistrate regarding freezing of the accounts. Khare submitted that the JMFC erred in law by rejecting the petitioner’s application, though there was non-compliance of Section 102.
 
 The public prosecutor admitted that till filing of plea in HC, no information/report was furnished by the Hingna police to JMFC regarding freezing of the petitioner’s accounts. He informed that the cops informed the JMFC on November 27 in this regard. 
 
 “The petitioner should furnish an undertaking before the JMFC that he will produce Rs1.30 lakh and Rs1.46 lakh as and when directed. The Hingna police then defreeze both his bank accounts,” the court said, before allowing his petition.
 
 
