CHENNAI:   has earned the honour of being declared the world’s first stone carving city and holds the GI tag for sculptures made in the ancient town. However, despite these laurels, the centuries old sculpture industry at Mamallapuram is facing a bleak future with craftsmen raising concern that the unique art may be on the brink of extinction.

 Lack of interest among the new generation to learn the art, non-availability of appropriate rock for carving and poor promotion of Mamallapuram stone sculptures in the international market have pushed the sculpture industry to a crisis.
 
 K Mahadevan, president of Mamallapuram Sculptors Welfare Association, said the demand for stone sculptures has not dipped but sculptors are facing hardships in accessing the raw material of blue rock. “Traditionally, sculptors have been using this particular rock sourced from a hillock at   in Kancheepuram taluk. About 18 years ago, the district administration declared the hillock as a stone quarry for producing blue metal. Though a stay has been obtained from the the high court that the hillock should not be diverted for any other purpose, the government is yet to allow us to take rock from Sankarapuram,” he said.
 
 With the doors to blue rock from Sankarapuram closed, sculptors are exploring rocks sourced from other quarries in Kancheepuram. “Another reason that worries us is that the new generation in Mamallapuram is reluctant to pursue sculpting as a profession and the scenario may lead to the ancient artwork ending with us,” master sculptor T Baskar said. 
 
 There are about 500 workshops employing 2,000 professional craftsmen in Mamallapuram. The sculptors largely create statues of Lord Buddha, Vinayagar, Hanuman, Amman besides the status of elephants. Annually, business to the tune of anywhere between Rs 100crore and Rs 120 crore is recorded. Sculptors said 50% of their works are exported to overseas.
 
 Advocate P  , who recently presented the GI certificate for Mamallapuram sculptures to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, said stone carving art of Mamallapuram dates back to more than 1500 years. “The government can promote the Mamallapuram sculptures by procuring the artworks and place it in its buildings. This would not only improve the livelihood of the existing sculptors but also attract the next generation towards the ancient art,” he added.
 
 Poompuhar chairman and managing director   said he has written to the industries department to earmark the hillock at Sankarapuram to source rock for professional purposes.
 
 
