Shreema Bhattacharya, the leading actress of the popular Bengali serial ‘Jamai Raja’, went vocal regarding gender discrimination when she was asked to leave a place since it was not ‘safe’ for girls.

 Yesterday evening the actress went to visit a place with some of her friends near  . As soon as she came LIVE on  , some local guys asked them to leave the place immediately, labelling it ‘unsafe’ for girls.
 
 In the video Shreema said to her fans, “I want to show you this beautiful place. It is near Bagbazar ghat.” In between a group of men asked them to leave the place due to an ‘incident’ that happened 5 years ago. They told them that girls are barred from coming there ever since.
 
 Shreema replied, “We have been here two and a half years back and no body stopped us. We are here for mere chitchat. Please leave us alone.” But the group insisted that they should leave. When Shreema and her friends didn’t listen to them, one of the guys alleged that students from local girls college come here for smoking cigarette and they even use drugs.
 
 Shreema protested, “We are also from the same college. I don’t know who has smoked here. But there should not be any separate rule for boys and girls. Nobody judges men for smoking. Moreover if any unfortunate incident happened at this place, then the local people should have come forward to help the victim rather than asking other girls to leave.” She also requested her fans in the LIVE video to raise their voice against such incidents and help such victims from any harassment.
 
 Actress   said, “Gender discrimination still exists in our society. There are certain rules for men and woman. We have equal rights. They were simply roaming around and not doing anything wrong.” When asked about the fact that Shreema and her friends were asked to leave the place because other girls reportedly use it for smoking, she said, “Smoking is injurious to health for both men and women. But no one questions a guy for smoking. For a particular role I had to practice smoking. My parents had no issues. I think other people should not criticize it, too. I have never seen these self-acclaimed critics coming forward when a woman is sexually harassed or raped.”
 
