VADODARA: Four workers died and 13 others were injured in a massive fire that broke out in GSP Crop Sciences Pvt Ltd at   GIDC in the early hours of Sunday. The fire was triggered due to a blast in a reactor in one of the plants of the company, which manufactures fertilizers and pesticides.

 Firemen recovered bodies of three persons after dousing the blaze while the fourth person succumbed during treatment at a private hospital. The deceased have been identified as Hitesh Vadodaria, Yashwant Parmar, Suresh Parmar and Bhupendra Rohit.
 
 Fire department sources said that there was a fault in ALF filter in C plant which led to a blast in the reactor. “When our team reached, we had information that seven persons were missing. We were dousing the fire and another team was conducting search operation,” said Om Jadeja, assistant fire officer.
 
 “Luckily, the fire did not spread to neighbouring plant A and B. However, the impact of the blast was such that walls and glasses in the neighbouring building also developed cracks,” he said.
 
 Fire had also engulfed solvent and petrochemical based liquid near the reactor which was doused using foam liquid. According to sources, team of firemen were also sent from neighbouring industries like GSPC, GSFC, GACL and Nandesari GIDC. Jadeja said that the fire could be brought under control within 90 minutes as they made use of fire hydrants of the company and the department’s water bowsers. Fire department will also be taking help of forensic experts to ascertain the exact reason behind the fire.
 
 On knowing about the incident senior police officials, district collector, GPCB and industrial safety officials rushed to the spot. 
 
 “The state government has also ordered inquiry and after a detailed investigation is done we will know if there were any lapse on the side of the management of the company,” said P Bharathi, district collector.
 
 As of now a case of accidental death has been registered at Nandesari police station. The company has paid a compensation of Rs 35 lakh to the kin of the each deceased and Rs five lakh each to the injured. 
 
 This is the third fire mishap in an industrial unit in Vadodara within less than a month. On December 26, major fire had broken out at Maneja-based Schaeffler India (previously known as FAG Bearings Limited).  , a pharmaceutical company at   in Savli, was caught in a massive fire on January 9.
 
  Number of workers was higher than other days: Officials
 
 The GSP Crop Sciences told the fire department officials that usually there are not many workers working in the plant C during night shift. But on Sunday, the number of workers was higher than other days as they had move out a batch of manufactured products. A fire official said that a batch of 2,000 litre was complete and the workers were moving it out of the plant when the incident took place.
 
 
