PUNE: An inspirational man of few words and an amazing sense of humour. That is how  , the director of Inter-university Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics, remembers  . Raychaudhury was taught by the legendary cosmologist while studying at the  .

 “When I was an undergraduate student, he could speak. His lectures were fantastic, though very technical. This was around the time when the Hawking-Penrose work on black holes was being carried out in 1984-85,” says Raychaudhury.
 
 He next got the chance to attend Hawking’s lectures when he joined the Cambridge University as a PhD student. “Hawking would enter the classroom with his lectures prepared. He had just one active finger then. He typed the words, selecting letters one-by-one from the menu, and then the voice processor would speak the words. He would give 24 to 30 lecture courses this way,” says Raychaudhury.
 
 Hawking would then sit among the students and take questions. “It was very interesting. The entire process seemed like a ‘guru’ speaking to his ‘shishyas’ in very economical terms. It took such a long time for him to compose the answers that he would communicate in a very few words. The question could be five-minute long, but his answer would be just three words,” he says.
 
 Hawking had an amazing sense of humour, recalls Raychaudhury. If the students looked into his eyes, they would realise that he was joking. “His eyes would twinkle, he would look at you and then the answer would come. He was inspiring in many ways. I would often think: ‘I have all my limbs and yet what have I achieved? And this man with just one finger and a brain has reached the top of his profession’,” says Raychaudhury.
 
 Raychaudhury gives credit to Hawking for “making the universe understandable” to the general public. “I hadn’t seen any major scientist do that in such an effective way. Of course, professor Narlikar did it in India and in vernacular, but Hawking was at the forefront of doing this kind of research and talking about,” Raychaudhury says.
 
 Anyone born after 1980, who is pursuing a career in physics or scientific research, is most likely to have been inspired by Hawking’s A Brief History of Time, says Raychaudhury. “It has inspired generations because it can be understood by all. Hawking surpassed all his limitations,” he says.
 
 Hawking was born on Galileo’s death anniversary and he passed away on Einstein’s birth anniversary. “He is kind of a bridge between Galileo and Einstein,” says Raychaudhury.
 
 
