CHANDIGARH: Academic achievers tend to undergo more stress and suicidal thoughts in comparison to those facing difficulties in studies, as per the main findings of a study published in the Indian psychiatry journal in 2017. The study was carried out to assess if academically studious students differ from those facing academic difficulties on parameters of stress and suicidal thoughts.

 The study, ‘stress and suicidal ideation among adolescents having academic difficulty’ conducted by the doctors at the   and Hospital, Sector 32, found that the adolescents are not only stressed due to academic performance but also owing to changing hormonal levels leading to psychological distress. 
 
 A total of 232 students were selected from five private and five government schools. There were three groups which included 105 students facing academic difficulty, 75 academic achievers and 52 students suffering with specific learning disabilities (SLD). The study included adolescents from classes VII to X, who were at a phase of their life where students start thinking about their career.
 
 On comparing the three groups of adolescent students, a higher number of academic achievers showed stress related to family not being able to understand what the child should pursue after Class X, exceeding work in varied subjects at school and peer pressure resulting in lesser concentration on studies. Suicidal thoughts were reported among the academically achieving group as compared to students facing academic difficulty. 
 
 “Adolescents faced stress, which can have multiple reasons besides academics. Poor relationship with parents, parental expectations, worries about future, peer pressure and academic difficulties play a role in causing stress. Thus, assessment of stress among adolescents should extend beyond academic difficulties,” said Dr BS  , department of psychiatry in   and one of the authors of the study. 
 
 The study concluded that academic difficulty is one of the factors behind high risk of suicide, and other factors need to be explored.
 
 
