KOTA: Stamping expansion in domestic air connectivity, Kota–Bundi Member of Parliament Om Birla on Wednesday inaugurated the maiden commercial flight under non-scheduled plan from   airport to Delhi. The nine seater charted plan took off with at least nine passengers from Kota airport at 7.15 in the morning to land at Delhi airport domestic terminal after one and a half hour at 8.30.

 Messer Supreme transport organization Pvt. Ltd, under the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Rajasthan state government has started air services from Kota to Delhi today, informed M.P. from Kota – Bundi constituency, Om Birla. Appreciating the efforts by chief minister   in expansion of domestic air connectivity from Kota, Birla said this would be largely convenient to people as Kota is an educational hub and an industrial city where large number of students, parents and businessmen pour in every year. 
 
 Direct flight from Sawai Madhopur to Delhi were also launched on Wednesday. Reacting to the new services, CM Vasundhara Raje said that direct flights from Sawai Madhopur & Kota to Delhi, Rajasthan has become a state with best air connectivity in India. “The flight out of Sawai Madhopur will provide a direct boost to the local business, tourism, economy and increase the scope of opportunities. People of Delhi can now fly in directly to enjoy a sighting of the mighty tiger at Ranthambore,” she said on Twitter. 
 
 “Efforts are under-way to expand domestic air connectivity from Kota to other cities including Indore, Ahmedabad, Mumbai, and Bangalore,” said Birla adding the sanction in principle of including small charted planes in UDAN – 2 programmes of the central government has paved the way to expansion in interstate domestic air services. “The air connectivity to Kota would boost up tourism in Hadoti region,” he added.
 
 “The non scheduled flight by charted plane has commenced from today morning for a fare of Rs. 5499 per passenger,” Kota airport manager   said. A similar air service from Kota to Jaipur that started from August last year received average response but because Kota receives more footfall on an average so this air plane is expected to receive good response. 
 
 The air service from Kota to Delhi would continue from Monday to Saturday and remain off on Sunday. The flight would take off from Kota at 7 o’clock in the morning and land in Delhi at 8.30 while for the return it would take off from Delhi airport at 5 o’clock in the evening and land in Kota at 6.30 pm and then fly to Jaipur at 6.45 to land at Jaipur airport at 7.30 in the evening.
 
 
