GURUGRAM: A 16-year-old girl going to see a doctor with her father on his motorcycle was forcibly pulled inside a “white car” and allegedly abducted by five men near   village of Gurugram. The crime took place on Sunday afternoon, but the father approached police only on Thursday.

 An FIR has been lodged against the accused, all residents of the same village, on a complaint by the girl’s father. However, cops have not been able to trace the girl yet.
 
 According to the father’s complaint, the five men intercepted his bike barely a kilometre away from his village around 1pm on Sunday while he was taking his daughter to a doctor.
 
 “The five came out of the ‘white car’ and pulled my daughter inside after thrashing me. They even threatened to kill me. I raised an alarm and even tried chasing the car, but they sped away,” he said.
 
 He has named four of the five kidnappers — main accused Kamal, Mukesh, Dabbu and Nihal — in his complaint.
 
 “Initially I searched for my daughter in the entire village and then went to Kamal’s house, where his mother told me that my daughter will be returned within two days. I had even approached the village sarpanch, but my daughter never came back. Now I have lodged a police complaint,” he said.
 
 An FIR has been registered against the five accused under sections 147 (rioting), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly), 323 (causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 365 (kidnap) of IPC at Farrukhnagar police station.
 
 “Our teams are on the job and searching for the girl as well as the accused who are on the run. We hope to track down the girl and nab all the kidnappers at the earliest,” said inspector Karan Singh, SHO, Farrukhnagar police station.
 
 This is not the first instance of abduction of a   girl in Gurugram this year. On January 19, a 12-year-old girl was abducted near Begumpur Khatola village by some men on a car while she was returning home with her 7-year-old sister from her father’s factory. The accused have not been arrested yet.
 
 
