NAGPUR: It was an unconventional setting for the three-day Vinayak   Theatre Festival which began at Rashtrbhasha Bahvan on Friday. The entire setting of open air theatre and seating arrangements under trees befitted the theme which was to focus on the works of Karade who stood for the exploited class and demanded social equality.

 A well-known writer, poet and dramatist, Karade had created a strong culture of streetplays in the city. The festival rightly began with one of his popular dramas, ‘Ishwar Ki Atmahatya’ enacted by artistes of Meraki group. The festival is featuring theatre groups from outside Nagpur and the first presentation was popular play ‘Raee’ presented by Bhilai IPTA.
 
  Written by Telugu writer SMV Gopal Raju, it was first translated into Hindi by   and staged in 1994. Since then, it has had 150 shows.
 
 Taking a cue from a Hindi idiom ‘Raee ka pahad’, which means making mountain out of a molehill, the play speaks of the angst that exists among the exploited class and the ever-deepening rich-poor divide. The play espouses its philosophy through a scene set in a police station where the sarpanch comes to complain about how his bonded labour attempted to kill him with a heavy stone. The characters of cops, a reporter, sarpanch and his goons all bring out the injustice and ‘might is right’ theory that forms the foundation of society since ages.
 
 Before the presentation of the plays,   spoke about his father and his works and said that he too was getting an insight about his father from this festival. “My father’concerns for Dalit and the underprivileged class reflected in his writings. I don’t have many of his works but would like to learn more about him and his writings.” 
 
 Recalling the influence that Karade had on his personality, HR trainer Ashit Sinha, a close school friend of Karade said, “He was a year senior to me and introduced me to art and culture. I was encouraged by Vinayak to read and he even groomed me to take part in a debate competition when we both were studying in Somalwar High School. He also shaped my political leanings by introducing me to Ram Manohar Lohia.”
 
 Senior theatre artiste Gajanan Sagdeo was honoured on this occasion. 
 
 Second day of the festival will feature Mehfil-e-Meraki, a programme of poetry presentation while Natmandap theatre group from Patna will present ‘Narmedh’, directed by Parvez Akhtar.
 
 
