The latest episode of   starts with   giving an earful to Kamini, the lady who had almost caused an accident. When Avni leaves in her car, Kamini scolds the inspector in a fit of anger.

 The goon's car passes by on the same road on which Avni is driving. Saisha sees her and shouts to get her attention. The goon shuts her mouth. 
 
 Kamini is seen shouting at the crew at KK's shooting set. Mitali arrives on the scene and asks for  . Kamini, who turns out to be KK's mother, issues a warning to Mitali.
 
 Next, with the aid of the tracker, Avni reaches the jungle from where Saisha and KK were kidnapped. Neil also arrives on the same spot and sees her car. Avni goes to some abandoned site and spots Saisha's phone, which had fallen to the ground when the latter was getting kidnapped.
 
 Avni goes inside the abandoned house and Neil enters after her. As they make their way in the dark, Avni kicks him and then beats him thinking that he is one of the goons. Neil holds her and pushes her to the ground. Just then he gets a glimpse of her face as the lightning strikes. 
 
 He takes out his phone and puts the flashlight to her face to make sure it is Avni. He finds it difficult to believe that she is still alive. Then it dawns on him and he shouts at her for cheating him by staying away from him all this while.
 
 Avni tells him that she is Nilanjana. As DD reaches there with the police team, Avni runs and hides and asks Neil to keep this a secret. Neil tells DD that he was looking for KK and the latter shares with him that KK is kidnapped and that a girl is also with him.
 
  
 Kamini joins them and she is introduced to Neil. DD says that the kidnappers called and threw the sim card. He adds that they might call again and ask for a ransom. Kamini tells Neil that she wants him to handle the case personally. She hands him some money for the expedition. She leaves with DD and others.
 
 Then Avni approaches Neil and hands over Saisha's note to him. She tells him that the goons have sent a DVD too. They leave.
 
 Next, the goons are seen talking about the ransom amount that they should demand for KK and Saisha.
 
