NEW DELHI: Among the various things ailing Delhi Daredevils is an inability to string a couple of wins together. Their inconsistency and subsequent inability to win two successive matches has landed them in a situation where they need to win their final four games of the season, and even that might not be enough to secure a playoffs berth.

 
 
 
 
 What should give the Daredevils a boost is the fact that all of these last four ties will be played at home, at the Feroz Shah Kotla, starting on Thursday against   table-toppers  .
 
 
 
 Kotla has proved to be lucky for the home team of late - Shreyas Iyer has won both times he’s led the team out at this venue following Gautam Gambhir’s sudden resignation from the captaincy.
 
 “We have not played that badly to be honest but we have not got the results and our position is at the bottom,” New Zealand and Daredevils opener Colin Munro said here on Wednesday. “Though we are the bottom, we back each other to do well. We have got four games to play and we want to win all these four and see what happens for the playoffs,” Munro, who has struggled for form this season, added.
 
 Daredevils know Kane Williamson’s Sunrisers will not be easy opponents. The Sunrisers bowling attack has ably defended even modest targets this season, enabling them to virtually book a playoff berth with four matches still to go. There are theories going around that Sunrisers’ coach   has been inspired by Big Bash League’s Perth Scorchers when they chose to pack their side with quality bowlers like   and Rashid Khan, along with Siddharth Kaul.
 
 “We not only look at trends in the BBL but in various other T20 leagues like BPL or even CPL. One of the key ingredients of our success has been the diverse bowling attack,” coach Moody said.
 
 Moody, however, felt the Sunrisers batsmen deserve credit for getting their team over the line on a tough Hyderabad track. “The pitch we have encountered in Hyderabad has been very challenging. It’s not like the tracks in Delhi, Pune or Kolkata, where batsmen have found it easy. We hope that the batsmen will find their feet on a batting track like the Kotla,” the former Australian allrounder added.
 
 While Moody and Sunrisers are hoping for a change in batting fortunes, the home side will bank on the Mumbai duo of Prithvi Shaw and Shreyas Iyer to resume their Kotla love-affair. Daredevils, however, will hope the rain stops following them around. Brief showers in the Capital on Wednesday delayed their pre-match practice by half an hour.
 
