CHANDIGARH: Amid rising demand for new courses, some city-based colleges affiliated to the   are going to start new diploma to master’s level courses from August 2018.

 The new courses that have been approved by the Panjab University will be started to accommodate the growing need for the same.
 
 Out of the five main city colleges affiliated to PU — MCM DAV  , Sector 36, DAV College, Sector 10, GGDSD College, Sector 32, PGGC-42, GCM, Sector 11and GCG, Sector 11— as many as four colleges among them are start new courses from this year.
 
 MCM DAV College for women will be introducing PhD in English from August 2018, after having considered an increase in the number of students seeking to pursue the course. “Panjab University alone cannot suffice as there is a huge number of students who want to pursue PhD in English. It is a popular choice, so the college now has an option for those who do not get admission in PU,” said Ashish Mudgal, PRO, MCM DAV College.
 
 Besides Panjab University and GCG-11, MCM DAV College has become the third institute in the city to offer research in the subject.
 
 Moreover, GGDSD College, Chandigarh will start Geography as a new elective subject in BA for the academic session 2018-2019. Apart from this, the college has been granted a new research centre for commerce students. The admission to the PhD programme and the course work will be managed by the University Business School (UBS), Panjab University.
 
 Last year, DAV College, Sector 10, had also started an MBA programme which will begin its second year for the academic session 2018-2019. As many as 60 students are currently studying under this programme. However, owing to the lack of students, MSc IT and BSc Infomatics were merged together as BSc Infomatics, as the separate courses were discontinued last year.
 
 In GCG-11, MA Psychology along with Event Management as an add-on course will be available for students from August. “The college had been planning to start these courses for a long time now. At present, we are waiting for an approval from the Panjab University, which once received, the courses will be started,” said Ajay Kumar, PRO, GCG-11.
 
 Kumar added that GCG -11is the only college which offers an MFA (Master’s in fine arts) course, which was started last year. It is not available in any other college or at Panjab University. Apart from MFA, courses like MSc IT and MCom were also introduced last year. PGGC-42 will offer a diploma in music instrumental/vocal from the new academic session.
 
