VISAKHAPATNAM: The   Grants Commission ( ) has granted Rs 100 crore to   (AU) under the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) scheme in the second phase. 

 AU is one among the 10 universities across the country to make the cut to receive the Rs 100 crore grant this year. University officials are currently drafting a detailed report as to how to invest the funds in modern and efficient infrastructure to address the increasing technological and conceptual needs of the students. The RUSA scheme seeks to improve the overall quality of existing state varsities and other higher educational institutions by ensuring their conformity to the prescribed norms and standards. 
 
 
  
 
 Andhra University vice-chancellor Prof G Nageswara Rao informed that the varsity got about Rs 20 crore funds appropriated under the RUSA scheme in the first phase last year. “We were able to find a place among the 10 varsities which got Rs 100 crore or more RUSA funds this year. These funds will be expended on new infrastructure, renovation works and repurposing the hostels, classrooms and labs. We got an official communique from the UGC to this effect on Thursday,” said Prof Rao. He further added that their preliminary proposals sent to the UGC for RUSA funds are pegged at about Rs 122 crore. 
 
 On the infrastructure component, the varsity has proposed Rs 4 crore for constructing a men’s hostel as well as a women’s hostel. The varsity will introduce international MBA, at per the UGC’s suggestion, and has earmarked Rs 15 crore for providing infra and other amenities for the new course. A state-of-the-art research centre with an outlay of Rs 30 crore is also on the agenda. 
 
 The varsity will also get a food and drug testing lab, which is said to be the first-of-its kind in south India, at about Rs 15 crore. The lab is expected to be highly beneficial for local fish and other processing units and boost the prospects of exports from   port. It will also prosper the practical knowledge of students of certain streams before they make an entry into the job market. Considering the proposed faculty recruitment, the varsity has earmarked Rs 5 crore as research seed grant for the new faculty. 
 
 The varsity will expend about Rs 5 crore on international conferences and training the faculty abroad. 
 
 With the recently bestowed graded autonomy, the varsity has allocated Rs 5 crore for availing the services of international faculty and introducing new courses. 
 
 A facelift will be given to existing buildings and hostels at about Rs 10 crore.
 
 
