TIRUNELVELI: Police have registered cases against 300 two-wheeler riders attached to the  , Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) and other Hindu outfits for violating prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC that was in force in Tirunelveli district when VHP-led Ram Rajya Rath Yatra entered Tamil Nadu from Kerala on March 20.

 Section 144 of the CrPC prohibits assembly of five or more people. Tirunelveli superintendent of police P Ve Arunsakthikumar said the organisers of the yatra had been told that there should not be any crowding and that they should not cause any inconvenience to other road users. “But there were around 300 two-wheelers that accompanied the yatra from Puliyarai on the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border. They obstructed the flow of traffic,” he told TOI.
 
 It may be recalled that on March 20, it took more than four hours for the yatra to cover 21km from Puliyarai to Ilanjai – through Sengottai. “Since they were violating the conditions we warned them but they slowed down the movement of the yatra and hindered the police from safely escorting them through the district in the stipulated time. Hence, we are taking action against them,” he said.
 
 Arunsakthikumar said videos of the violation, identities of the violators and their vehicle registration numbers had been properly recorded. Summons were being sent to them. “They will be asked to offer an explanation for the violation and appropriate action will be initiated against them based on their replies,” he said.
 
 The Sengottai police registered a case against the offenders under Sections 143 (punishment for unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) and 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 184 (driving dangerously) of the Motor Vehicle Act.
 
 The Tirunelveli taluk police on Friday started registering cases in connection with similar violations when the yatra was heading from Tuticorin to Kanyakumari on Thursday afternoon. The number of violators in this incident would be finalised in a day or two.
 
 Organisers of the yatra conducted a public meeting at Chettikulam junction in   on Thursday night despite denial of permission by the Kanyakumari district police. On Friday morning, the yatra started from Nagercoil and proceeded to Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala via Kaliyakkavilai.
 
 Meanwhile, the 144 order passed by the Tirunelveli collector with effect from 6pm on March 19 came to an end at 6am on March 23.
 
 
