BATHINDA: A family of Kangar village in the district has accused Rampura Phul   Gurpreet Singh Kangar of making his security men beat them and then use his influence in getting them arrested after getting a case registered against them in the name of attacking a police party. Kangar has vehemently refuted the charges.

 A member of the family, Satnam Singh, is an AAP activist. They share a boundary wall with the outer house of the MLA in the village, where Kangar only parks his vehicles. He resides in another home in the village.
 
 Satnam’s father Darshan Singh (72) while talking to mediapersons here on Monday said that, “Our Dalit family works as labourers and we share a boundary wall with Kangar’s outer house. It was in a very bad condition and we had complained to Kangar a lot of times to demolish it and construct a new one. The wall caved in on Sunday morning and Kangar, along with his security guards in civvies, came to us and abused us. 
 
 The security guards tried to beat us but when we started making video clip, they ran away. Then a police party from Bhagta police station came and arrested five members of my family, which include both my sons, wife and daughters-in-law, and accused my family of tearing a uniform of one of the policemen, which is not true.” He said though my son Satnam is with AAP but I am with SAD.
 
 Acase has been registered against Satnam, his mother Sukhdev Kaur, wife Rani Kaur, brother Chiman Singh, sister-in-law Paramjit Singh u/s 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharging his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of  ), 341(wrongful restraint)and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the IPC. The case has been registered on the complaint of head constable Gurjant Singh, posted at Bhagta Bhai Ka police station.
 
 According to a complaint filed by head constable Gurjant Singh, a police party had on Sunday gone to the village as a mediator in the dispute over tearing of his uniform and obstructing the team from discharging its duty. Bhagta police station SHO Gurpiar Singh said that, “A complaint was filed by Sarwan Singh villager against Satnam for allegedly abusing him. The police party had gone to look into the matter when the family members attacked head constable and tore his uniform. Five members of the family, including three women, have been arrested in this regard.”
 
 Former minister SADBJP government   said that, “We will protest against this injustice meted out to the Dalit family. The ruling party is victimising members of other parties.” On the other hand, Kangar said that, “I have nothing to do with the case. I was not present at my home when the police party came to the village and had an altercation with them”. He said his opponents are trying to  
 
 Bathinda SSP Naveen Singla said that, “The case has been registered on the complaint of head constable and there was no political pressure. I will look into the matter.”
 
 
