HYDERABAD:   police arrested a 23-year-old madrassa teacher for   six boys on the institution premises. The accused is identified as Rehman Ansari, a native of Bihar. In June 2017, Ansari joined a madrassa at   in Asif Nagar as an instructor. Ansari used to stay in the room provided at madrassa premises. 

 "There are 25 students enrolled in the madrassa and 22 of them were currently attending the classes," Asif Nagar   (ACP), K  , said. Out of the 22 students, 18 are from Bihar and rest of the students are from Hyderabad. All the students are aged between eight and 11 years. Except for two local students, rest of the students stay at the madrassa and are pursuing the education. 
 
 The incident of sexual assault came to light on April 29, when an eight-year-old boy visited his house and informed his father about Ansari raping him at madrassa premises.
 
 The victim's father, a businessman, immediately went to madrassa and confronted Ansari. When the accused claimed innocence, the victim's father spoke to other students who were residing at the madrassa. Two students came forward, saying Ansari had sexually assaulted them.
 
 The victim's father lodged a complaint against Ansari with the Asif Nagar police and a case was registered against the teacher under Section 377 (unnatural offences) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 5 and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Ansari holds a Bachelor's degree in Education. (BEd)
 
 Police has sent the victim to Bharosa centre for counselling. The other students at the madrassa were also counselled by professionals at the Bharosa centre and their statements were recorded. "We found out that Ansari has sexually assaulted six boys in the past two months," ACP Ashok Chakravarthy said. Ansari assaulted most of the boys in his room at the madrassa.
 
 A medical examination was conducted on the victims and the accused was remanded in judicial custody on Wednesday. Other instructors are conducting classes at the madrassa and the families of boys residing at the madrassa were also informed about the incident.
 
