GURUGRAM: An   team, which was following high court order to demolish illegal structures in   that fall within 300m radius of the IAF ammunition depot, came under attack from a huge   of locals on Wednesday evening, which left district town planner (DTP) Mohan Singh, who led the drive, with a fractured right hand. 

 The mob started   stones to prevent the team from carrying out the demolitions. While trying to escape, Singh fell and broke his arm. Two team members also received minor injuries, while four vehicles were damaged.
 
 It follows last week’s incident in Himachal Pradesh, where a woman assistant town and country planner was shot dead and a labourer injured in Solan district by the owner of a guest house, miffed by demolition of an illegal structure. The MCG team was accompanied by around 500 cops for protection, who though stood motionless during the   pelting, according to MCG officials. MCG teams have come under attack from irate mobs on at least four other occasions in the recent past.
 
 “Had cops done their duty, none of us would have been injured. But they stood like mute spectators even after we pleaded with them to bail us out. In fact, cops were the first to run away when the stone pelting began, leaving us helpless. I started running to save myself, but the road had become slushy as it had just started to rain, and I fell and broke my hand. Initially, I didn’t realise my hand had broken. I tied a handkerchief around it to reduce the pain. Only after I fled with the help of colleagues, who took me to a nursing home, did I realise the extent of damage,” the DTP told TOI.
 
 MCG commissioner Yashpal Yadav said he’ll take up the issue. “This is serious. It appears some cops didn’t bother to alight from vehicles when the drive began. I’ll talk to the police commissioner to ensure such incidents are not repeated. We’ll make sure the attackers are booked,” he said.
 
 Police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar couldn’t be reached, but SHO Narender Kumar of Sector 5 police station denied the allegations and questioned why the DTP did not bring the medical report to him. 
 
 
