The years most awaited film '
 ' has extended its reign over the Indian box office apart from the worldwide market. 

 
 
 
 
 The third instalment of the ‘Avengers’ franchise which already broke records on its first day by raking in Rs 31.33 crore and becoming highest grossing Hollywood film to release in India, continued its extraordinary run at the ticket counter by amassing Rs 30.25 crore on Saturday and further collected Rs 32.75 crore on Sunday. Thus, the film's total weekend collection now stands at a staggering Rs 94.33 crore, according to a recent report on BoxOfficeIndia.com.
 
 These astounding figures have already taken the film past the likes of Bollywood releases like 'Padmaavat' and 'Baaghi 2' in terms of the first-weekend collection. The film which became the highest grossing opening weekend film all time by earning a whopping $630 million at the worldwide box office, is just a few crores short of the hitting the 100-crore mark in India.
 
 
 
 The latest Marvel flick comes after the breakout success of 'Black Panther'. The film sees a string of superheroes coming together to save the universe from the powerful Thanos ( ). Comebacks include Robert Downey Jr as Iron Man, Benedict Cumberbatch's Doctor Strange,   as Black Widow,   as Captain America and   as Thor. Also back for more action are Black Panther, the Hulk, Spider-Man and the Guardians of the Galaxy and their assorted allies.
 
 The film has been the talk of the nation and the hype created due to the teaser clips going viral prior to the release of the film has made it a must-watch. What has further added to the success of the film is its gripping storyline which will keep you on the edge of your seat and great word of mouth by critics and the audience.
 
 Helmed by Joe and  , 'Avengers: Infinity War' is predicted to do a good business this week as per the experts and is sure to cross the Rs 100 crore mark by Monday. It is also said to become the highest grossing Hollywood release in India till date.
 
