CHENNAI:   reefs are on a decline globally. But it is in the understanding of the disturbances, which change the structure and functioning of the diverse underwater ecosystem, that lies the answer of preservation, at least for some of them.

 Despite the dwindling numbers of corals, over the years scientists have noticed some positive behaviour in coral reefs in some areas. In Lakshadweep, several climate change-related coral bleaching events in the past two decades have resulted in a loss of coral, but more importantly, a shift has been noticed in the kind of coral species that dominate today, says  , a PhD student in coral reef ecology at  .
 
 “A decline in some fast-growing, structurally complex coral species since 1998 has been paralleled by an increase in more stress-tolerant coral taxa. These shifting coral communities will impact not only the speed at which reefs can recover after a disturbance (slower today, because of the slow-growing nature of the coral community), but also associated reef organisms,” she said, adding that understanding links between shifting coral communities, reef fish movement and reef fishing will be crucial to brace for effects of warming waters.
 
 Shreya said some coral species have been found to survive rising temperatures and disturbances in weather patterns in Lakshwadeep. “This is a positive sign. This knowledge will be useful for setting up coral management systems in other regions too,” said Yadav, during a talk on ‘In hot water —understanding coral reef response to repeated disturbance in the Lakshadweep islands’ at   on Tuesday.
 
 But how did the reefs become more resistant? There are many reasons. One of them is herbivorous fish, which according to Yadav plays a major role in Lakshadweep. “It has become increasingly clear that herbivores play a critical role in driving the resilience of the Lakshadweep reefs by mediating competitive interactions between coral and algae, thereby making substrate available and preventing a phase shift to an alternate stable state dominated by the algae,” she said. But what is still unclear is how herbivory varies across these reefs and if the distribution of herbivores is directly linked to the function they perform on reefs, said Shreya, referring to a previous study she did with  , Mysore.
 
 Referred to as the ‘rain forests of the sea’, coral reefs are diverse underwater ecosystem held together by calcium carbonate structures secreted by corals. It provides shelter to a variety of organisms ranging from microscopic plankton to larger mammals like dolphins. During the 2004 tsunami, it was the coral reefs that reduced the speed and impact of waves, helping prevent loss of life in the coastal belts of Sri Lanka and certain areas in Indonesia.
 
 
