PATIALA: A two-year-old child and a 30-year-old man were killed and three children seriously injured in a   at a scrap store near   here on Monday morning.

 The victims were Sameer, 2, and Mumtiaz, while the injured were identified as 10-year-old Afreen, six-year-old Noor-e-Jahan and three-year-old Babbu.
 
 DSP   said Mumtiaz was engaged in breaking the scrap and there was a possibility that some explosive substance was present in one of the containers inside the store. As he hit that container, the blast occurred, the   said. The investigators also found empty cans of deodorants and perfumes and were trying to analyse if these played a role in the blast.
 
 The 20-sq-yard store was inside a house and the victims were sleeping where the scrap was kept.
 
 A team of forensic experts said neither any crater was found on the floor nor there were signs of a fire. They said it appeared the deaths had been caused by an increase in pressure in containers kept inside the store.
 
 Firefighters as well as paramedics from the district headquarters were rushed to the spot to assist in rescue operations. Police have registered a case and started investigations.
 
 Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh ordered a   probe into the blast and announced an ex gratia of Rs 1 lakh each for the next of the kin of the two victims and Rs 25,000 each for the injured.
 
 On February 20, three persons were killed after they inhaled ammonia gas that leaked after an explosion ripped apart a cylinder installed outside a food processing and packaging unit on the outskirts of Sandharsi village on Ghanaur-Shambhu road. On December 27, 2017, a blast in a truck loaded with firecrackers left one person dead near Mirch Mandi in Rajpura. On November 17, 2017, a 21-year-old man was killed by a “mysterious explosion” that shook the Mirch Mandi area near the walled city. The impact was such structures of two shops were reduced to rubble, while huge damage was caused to two other shops adjoining the site.
 
 
