Kolkata: On a special autumn full moon night, when the Darjeeling hills are awash in silver, a shy bud is born. She is welcomed by the caressing fingers of a plucker, who picks her and lovingly places her in a special bassinet. Lulled by the right temperature and breeze and nursed by expert hands, the bud turns into Silver Tips white  , one of the ladies who rule the world of tea. She is exclusive and pricey, and it is not easy to set sights on her. You might have to pay anything between Rs 30,000 and Rs 50,000 for just a kilo of the choicest variety.

 Lahari Saha, an economics undergraduate student at Calcutta University, listens in rapt attention as Soumitro Roy, a senior tea taster, explains the mysteries of the highest quality of white Darjeeling tea inside the heritage Makaibari store housed inside a restored one-bogie tram at City Centre I. The 20-something die-hard tea lover came to look for some finest quality tea. And she was amazed at what she saw over endless sips, punctuated with stories that are as exclusive as the teas here. Lahari was with her chartered accountant friend Puja Bubna, another tea lover, for whom visiting the many exclusive tea parlours of the city is the best way to chill. Makaibari, the world’s oldest tea factory (started in 1859), started its two exclusive heritage tea experience stores in the city just a month back, where you can taste and spend time getting educated before buying your tea.
 
 While the general impression is that coffee rules the world of the city’s young and happening, one is amazed at how much the city is in love with tea, even when that means spending several notches more than what they would do in a café. The exclusivity, sophistication, delicate refinement and subtlety that is associated with tea sets it a class apart — that is the refrain one hears as one moves from one exclusive tea lounge to another. There are some that have been handed down to the city as legacies from the days of the Raj, while there are some that have come up quietly over the years and have turned into landmarks for fans.
 
 For 30 years, Dolly’s Tea Shop at Dakshinapan has stolen the hearts of the young and elderly alike. Be it the hot steamy first/second flush from Darjeeling, to the delicate and sparkling silver-green, from the cold concoction of a ‘t-shake’ to her designer tea-inspired Virgin Mary or Fuchka Tea, there’s a tea to suit every palate. For Dolly Roy, the country’s first woman tea auctioneer to the owner of the first tea boutique, there are accolades aplenty underneath her hat, but they say it is tea, not blood, that runs in her veins. And while Darjeeling and Assam sit pretty in her parlour in their myriad hues and flavours, you can even choose to experiment with tea from Uttaranchal and the Nilgiris at her store. Debashish Chakraborty, a marketing professional who’s a regular here, swears by it. “I am a complete tea person. While at home it is regular milk tea for me, I chill out daily at Dolly’s with my favourite Darjeeling. And I have been doing this since 1995,” he says.
 
 The tea room that the Swiss couple, Mr and Mrs Flury, started 90 years ago is today better known as Flury’s, the unchallenged heritage landmark on Park Street. The couple set up the tea room to serve high tea, bread and scones to British officers who needed to snack between the time they left office and entered clubs in the evenings. Today, of course, the array of savouries and confectionery are perhaps the more popular offerings, but a Flury’s experience remains incomplete until you have ordered from its long list of tea offerings. “Some things don’t change. Generations have sat by the Flury’s window seats soothing their senses with tea and sandwiches. Look at us, we are school friends who went on to join IIT Kharagpur (batch of 1975) and are now meeting at Flury’s over tea and brunch,” says K K Nanda, a tea expert of 45 years’ experience. Across him sat Sudipto Das, who is just back from the US where he used to work. “Before coming here, I was sipping tea at the Cha-Bar of Oxford Bookstore across the road. I am an addict,” Das says, raising a toast to tea and the exclusive places that serve the brew.
 
 Perhaps the fact that it is a speciality brew that makes tea stand apart, feel enthusiasts. “It is not an instant drink. You need time, patience and expertise to brew it right and then let the flavour take control of your senses. You can compare the finest tea to an expensive wine, champagne or Scotch,” says Sudeep Sinha, food and beverages head of The Lalit Great Eastern, which has set up its Tea Lounge in an effort to create a heritage experience, and serves at least 12 varieties of single-estate Darjeeling tea in the lounge, apart from organic, green and flavoured variations. “There used to be auction houses around this place since the British times, and tea experts would then troop into Great Eastern for tea to wash down their favourite bakery products. We want to bring that back. We are encouraging our patrons to spend time at our lounge soaking in tea and enjoying the elaborate tea service experience, which has been handed down to us as a legacy by the British,” Sinha adds.
 
 One found a young teacher of South Point School, Shruti Chowdhury, having a lively conversation over a cup of an expensive variety of white tea at The Tea Trove at Acropolis Mall. Owner Shruti Kanoi explains that in her chain of stores, tea lovers are encouraged to experiment and sip a cuppa before buying. Chowdhury spends quite a bit every month buying the finest varieties of Darjeeling tea for herself. “My family calls it my obsession. I don’t mind because I am passionate about tea,” Shruti says, buying 100-gram pouches of some expensive varieties. Raisaab Hanuman Kanoi, a scion of the family that owns The Tea Trove, was among the first Indian planters when the British started handing over the gardens. “We have 80 varieties of pure, blended, herbal and flavoured tea across price ranges. The idea is to popularise tea as a drink and encourage buyers not only to select tea according to their taste but also to brew it right,” Raisaab explains.
 
 There are many who like their tea with milk and sugar. Masala chai, adrakh wali chai or elaichi chai are different variants made not with Darjeeling but with Assam tea, mostly of the CTC variety. Holding the earthen kullarh at the brim and sipping steaming hot full-bodied milk tea out of it can give you a kick like no other, fans will swear. The large crowd at Balwant Singh and Sharma Dhaba at the crossing of Harish Mukherjee Road and D L Khan Road, even at midnight, is proof enough. And then there are exclusive stores like Tea Junction (35 outlets) and Chai Break (10 outlets) that promote the culture of milk tea. Tea Junction serves its signature masala chai in their specially designed earthen throwaway kullarhs that look quite different from the ones that we see in roadside tea stalls. “You will be happy to know that masala chai in kullarhs has just staged an entry at the airport. We are also about to introduce the ginger and saffron varieties,” says Ravdeep Singh, head of operations at Tea Junction. One found Prosenjit Sen Majumdar, who works in a medical company, raising a toast with his wife, Ratna, over masala chai. “We are tea lovers and thought this would be the best way to celebrate Valentine’s Day,” Majumdar says.
 
 Side-by-side with regular milk tea with kesar, which is a huge hit at Chai-Break, this speciality tea joint also serves fine Darjeeling white and oolong varieties, apart from tisane infusions, which are a hit wherever available.
 
 Inside the sprawling Eco Park is the latest tea hotspot, The Tea Lounge, a joint venture of Andrew Yule and Hidco. The most interesting bit is the one-bigha tea garden outside the lounge. Visitors are taken around the garden and also encouraged to ride a bicycle or indulge in other sporting activities, punctuated with tea-drinking. Run by golfer Neil Law, the lounge has turned into a popular breakfast point. There is a wide range of teas to choose from, right from the classic varieties of Darjeeling and Assam to the flavoured, green and iced varieties to suit every taste.
 
 For Kolkatans, it’s never been a better time to be a tea lover. Just take a sip.
 
 
