After being in the news for past two-three months, Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s magnum opus ' ' continues to hit headlines even after two weeks after its release. The 
 ,   and   starrer grossed Rs 16.50 crore nett on its second Saturday, according to a report in BoxofficeIndia.com.

 
 
 The film has been majorly opposed by Shri Rajput Karni Sena who were of the view that the Bhansali film will not only show their Queen Padmavati in a bad light but would bring disgrace to the Rajput clan. After all the hue and cry when the film finally hit the theatres and has been doing exceptionally well at the ticket windows, vice-president of Shri Rashtriya Rajput Karni Sena recently praised  's film 'Padmaavat' and issued a letter claiming the outfit was withdrawing protests against the film.
 
 However, according to recent developments, the fringe Rajput outfit made a U-turn and claimed it would continue with protests. The outfit also said that the person who had signed the letter would be immediately suspended.
 
 
 Addressing the media in Jaipur on Saturday, the outfit's president, Sukhdev Singh Gogamedi, claimed that he had never directed anyone to watch the movie as mentioned in the letter. Claiming that he had nothing to do with the letter, he termed it 'fake' and went on to hint that it could be an insider's mischief. On being probed further by media persons, he said, "We will immediately suspend the office-bearer who has signed this letter."
 
 The letter in question though has exposed the cracks within Rajput outfits that have been putting a united front ever since the 'Padmaavat' issue began.
 
 Ranveer Singh has garnered immense praise for his character played in his recently-released 'Padmaavat' and the actor couldn't be gladder about the appreciation he has received from the audience. In a recent interview, he opened up about how he thought that taking up the character would be a risk and much more. 
 
 He said, "I was relieved when the praise started coming in. I was playing an antagonist and I didn't know how this would go down. No mainstream leading actor has taken this plunge, especially with such a completely dark character," Ranveer explained, adding, "It was a huge risk. I didn't know how it would be received. If this had gone wrong, it would have been my undoing. So, there was a huge sense of relief after it was appreciated."
 
