LUCKNOW: On an average eight women are raped and 30 abducted everyday in   where more than 100 FIRs of ‘crime against women’ are lodged daily.

 Amid nationwide protests against   rape case, a review of recent incidents in which women were targeted shows that ‘crime against women’ has gone up sharpy between January 1 and March 31 in UP this year over 2017 and 2016.
 
  
  
 
 Officials, however, insist that liberal approach adopted to register FIR of women complainants has resulted in increased crime figures and situation on the ground has improved.
 
 UP police regularly reviews the status of FIRs registered under IPC sections amounting to rape or rape bid, kidnapping or abduction of women, dowry death, sexual harassment, obscenity, cruelty by husband or relatives or harassment over dowry among other charges.
 
 It was noticed that total number of offences registered in this regard have gone up by 24% over the previous year. While number of rape cases have remained at par, incidents of abduction, sexual harassment and obscenity with females had spiralled. Additional director general (law and order) Anand Kumar said, “It shows women have no hesitation in walking inside a police station to lodge an FIR now. Also, I want to emphasize that suppressing of crime has gone down and people from all walks of life are able to get their case registered which shows they have faith in police department.”
 
 The officer added that in an analysis of crime pattern it was discovered that in eight out of 10 rape or kidnapping cases, women had been violated by their acquaintances and not strangers.
 
 However, episodes such as Unnao have exposed the chinks in claims of UP police. While data reveals 899 FIRs under rape charges have been lodged in UP till March 31, the DNA lab in Mahanagar set up to handle exhibits of sexual offences received close to 280 samples in the same period.
 
 “In cases where no semen is found on vaginal swab or slide, the exhibits are not sent to laboratory and hence the mismatch in figures,” said DIG law and order  . Sources in the forensic laboratory said that investigating officers are unable to lift samples properly and half of the samples are returned as unfit.
 
