NEW DELHI: The SC-mandated pollution control board,  , on Wednesday decided that it will focus on reducing industrial pollution in NCR this year. While lifting the ‘severe and very poor’ category interventions under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) in NCR, EPCA, at a meeting with authorities in NCR, enquired what was being done to move industries to cleaner fuels.

  
  head, Bhure Lal, also pointed out that many polluting industries in Delhi, which had claimed to have moved to the outskirts or outside on paper, continued to function within the city. Currently, EPCA is working on identifying these ‘non-conforming’ industries.
 
 EPCA had flagged the issue of these illegal industries at earlier meetings as well, but the Delhi environment department and   (DPCC) were unable to act against these units because of legal loopholes. The officials who attended the meeting said they were aware about these industries in the ‘nonconforming areas’ (areas not meant for industrial activity according to the master plan), but   cannot shut them immediately as the law prescribes issuing of a notice first. The notice would be as good as recognising them to be legal, the officials said However, Bhure Lal pointed out that, “You can always act against them under the provisions of the Air Act. If an industry is polluting the air, you have the right to seal it under the Act irrespective, of whether it’s in conforming or non-conforming areas.”
 
 SM Ali, special secretary, informed EPCA that the Delhi government this year has managed to convince industrial associations to convert to PNG, but mentioned nothing about their plans to deal with the ones working in non-conforming areas. EPCA member Sunita Narain said “Hotspots like   and   remain extraordinarily polluted. Industries should be top priority for the   (CPCB) and state pollution control boards.”
 
 An official from Ghaziabad informed EPCA that Indraprastha Gas Limited was given a target in 2005 for connecting residential, commercial, industrial and other sectors to PNG. “Only the industrial sector was reluctant, which is why the target of 1.22 lakh standard cubic metres per day(SDMD) for 2008-09 was not met. Even till 2015-16, only 76,000 SDMD was sourced to them.”
 
 Industries would either have to move to PNG or install expensive pollution control technologies to comply with the recent standards on sulphur oxides (SOx) and oxides of nitrogen (NOx) notified by the environment ministry. Bhure Lal has already written to all chief secretaries of NCR, including Delhi on compliance with SC order banning the use of extremely polluting fuels—pet coke and furnace oil — and the SOx and NOx standards for 18 industrial categories.
 
 The ministry is in the process of finalising standards for five more industry categories, including limekiln, glass, ceramic, foundries, and re-heating furnaces. “As per information, most industries have switched from pet coke to coal and from furnace oil to LSHS (low sulphur heavy stock liquid fuel being sold by refineries). Both coal and LSHS have high pollution potential and therefore, industries will have to meet emission standards…they have the option to install and run pollution control equipment or switch to cleaner fuels,” the letter from Bhure lal sent on February 21 reads.
 
 Meanwhile, CPCB informed that all red category industries have been directed to install online stack continuous emissions monitoring systems and connect them to the CPCB server by March 31.
 
 
