PUNE: The city police’s economic offences wing (EOW) on Wednesday   another   of developer D S Kulkarni as a part of the ongoing   into a cheating case against him and his wife, Hemanti. 
 
 In a related development, the enforcement directorate (ED) has started a   investigation into the case. “The   officials want to know the flow of money in the case and will verify various investments of   in India and abroad,” a senior police officer said. 
  
 On Monday, the EOW had impounded a Prosche, two BMWs and two Toyota Camry cars and an MU Augusta motorcycle from Kulkarni’s bungalow, off Senapati Bapat road. 
  
 Assistant commissioner of police (EOW) Nilesh More told TOI, “We seized his Audi car today (Wednesday) from the same bungalow.” 
  
 Kulkarni, also known as DSK, and his companies own about 35 vehicles. Of them, seven are now in possession of the police. 
  
 As of now, DSK and his wife are in police custody remand. They would be produced before a special court for Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) Act on Thursday — the day the term of their remand would end. 
  
 Other police units like Kolhapur and Mumbai, where cases against DSK are registered, are likely to seek the developer’s transit remand for presenting him before the courts of their respective jurisdictions. Much would also depend on the EOW’s prayer in Thursday’s remand report as to whether the city police needs a further extension of DSK’s remand or not, considering that he spent almost six days in judicial custody because of his health condition. 
  
 DSK and his wife were arrested from a hotel in Delhi on February 17 and were produced before a court here the same evening. The court ordered DSK and his wife’s police custody remand till February 23. DSK was shifted to Sassoon General Hospital in the wee hours of February 18 after he collapsed and slipped into unconsciousness in the police lock-up. His remand was converted into judicial custody till an expert medical board of the hospital ruled on February 23 that he was fit for facing police interrogation. The probe gathered momentum after the police secured DSK’s custodial remand again on February 23. 
  
 Police investigators are now busy identifying DSK’s properties not mortgaged with banks and plan to seal them soon. “We are identifying the ‘clean’ properties belonging to DSK, which can be easily sealed. This will directly benefit the investors, who have lodged complaints against DSK and his wife,” another senior police officer said. 
  
  
