JAIPUR: The state government is likely to take action against private hospitals that are not adhering to the norms and not providing treatment to below poverty line ( ) patients even after receiving land on concessional rates. 

 A recent letter written by health department to urban development and housing (UDH) revealed that there are 58 such private hospitals in the state, out of which 12 are in Jaipur. Following the chief minister’s order, the   department has asked state’s health department to submit the list of such hospitals that are not adhering to the norms. 
 
 “In a recent meeting, it was decided that UDH and health department will jointly examine the records of these private hospitals. The UDH will also sought a list of land allotted to concessional rates from the urban improvement trusts,” said a senior UDH official. 
 
 He added, “The land allotment or accreditation of the   would be cancelled if departments find them guilty.” 
 
 It was alleged that private hospitals which are beneficiaries of concessional land have failed to abide by the terms and conditions of providing free medication to 25% patients from below poverty line (BPL) category.
 
 “As per a mandatory provision, private hospitals which have been allotted land at concessional rates have to provide free medication to 25%  . Moreover, it is compulsory to fix an hour and provide free medical check-ups to poor patients at the outdoor patients department (OPD). Similarly, 10% beds should be reserved for the poor. However, majority of hospitals have failed to fulfil the terms and conditions,” an official source said.
 
 The decision to tighten the noose against these hospitals has taken after several complaints reached chief minister’s office. The issue was also raised in the state assembly. 
 
 Other than medical, the   (JDA) has also constituted a committee to check the status of land allotment which were done at concessional rates to educational, trusts, newspapers, social and various other institutes. 
 
 The committee is verifying if the land allotted at concessional rates in the state is being used properly or not. The committee members are inspecting the sites.
 
 An official in its report said, the committee will mention if allottees in present situation are adhering to the terms and conditions, which were laid down during the time of land allotment at concessional rates.
 
 The (JDA) has appointed all the zone commissioners as committee heads. The committee also comprise of assistant engineer and town planner.
 
 
