PUDUCHERRY : Rescued six years ago just a few minutes before her forced marriage at the age of 12, this  , who had never been to school until then, fought against all odds and has succeeded in joining a three-year nursing and midwifery course at a private medical and hospital in the Union territory of Puducherry. Having built herself a path to success, she was one of the select few honoured by the   during the international Women’s Day celebrations on Monday.

 Rescued, R Kowsalya had joined Class 8 directly in a government school, with the help of a NGO-Samugam. Highly interested in academics, she secured close to 75% in Class 10 but fell below her expectations in Class XII, securing 50%. 
 
 Kowsalya opted for biology group in higher secondary, as she aspired to pursue medicine. “I did not regret opting for a much tougher group with mathematics, physics, chemistry and biology. I aspired to join medicine. But I fell short a long way. I am happy that I got admitted to a nursing course. Medicine or nursing, my sole ambition is to pursue higher studies and reach a position where I can guide underprivileged children, particularly those from tribal communities,” said a courageous Kowsalya. 
 
 “It is a common practice in tribal communities to marry off girls soon after they reach puberty, specially since the groom pays a dowry to the bride’s family. Kowsalya was rescued a few minutes before she was forced into marriage with a much older man from the same community,” said J Bruno, director of Samugam.
 
 Kowsalya is the third of her parents’ eight children. Her parents, currently residing behind the Puducherry airport, have seven daughters and a son. “Only three of my sisters are attending school. The other three were married off. My parents preferred not to send my only brother to school either. However, I have not given up hope in convincing them to send him to school,” she said.
 
 The NGO Samugam, runs shelter homes for underprivileged children, particularly those from tribal communities and people living with leprosy in the Union territory of Puducherry and Trichy district of Tamil Nadu.
 
 
