NEW DELHI: Barely a fortnight before his death due to "serious intestinal complications," CPI ( ) leader  , had unsuccessfully tried to come out of his hideout in  , a 'liberated' hilltop in Latehar,  , for emergency medication and hospitalisation. 

 
 However, he was physically prevented from leaving by his subordinates, allegedly under instructions from top Maoist leaders who were wary that Arvindji would land in the police net and compromise their operational secrecy.
 
 Arvindji, the most influential Naxalite leader in Jharkhand and one of the 23 members of the CPI (Maoist) central committee, had been fighting severe diabetes, hypertension and related medical complications for the past several months. He was completely inactive over the past three weeks with his next-in-command taking charge of Maoist operations in Latehar and adjoining areas. "He was almost incapacitated due to weakness on account of his multiple illnesses and related medical complications," an officer told TOI.
 
 Around 15 days back, Arvindji, realising he may not live unless he got proper medical attention, expressed his desire to come down from Burha Pahar and get himself hospitalised.
 
 Intelligence sources claim an altercation broke out between Arvindji camp and his next-in-command on the issue. "Arvindji had no option but to abort his plan and stay put. He progressively got weaker and then just couldn't move," revealed an official.
 
 Arvindji, who hailed from Bihar's Jehanabad, was active in the Palamu, Garhwa and Chatra districts of Jharkhand. He was the chief strategist and operational head overseeing frequent encounters between Maoists and security forces, particularly in Burha Pahad area. Arvindji is known to have commanded respect among Maoist leaders in other states as well, often giving them advice on countering the anti-Naxalite forces. 
 
 Despite being a hardcore Maoist who spent most of his adult life in the jungles, Arvindji ensured that his son got a good education. The latter is reportedly working as a software engineer within the country. 
 
 Finances were never a trouble for the master strategist, with the law enforcement agencies having seized Rs 27 lakh in 2010-11 that was meant to go to his wife. 
 
 As per a source, Arvindji had a penchant for expensive cigarettes, his favourite brand being Charms manufactured by Hyderabad-based Vazir Sultan Tobacco. 
 
 In the past months, Burha Pahar has seen an exodus of local tribal families troubled by the frequent clashes between Maoists and security forces. Maoists had been using tribals as human shields to prevent forces from accessing the hilltop, which is also heavily-mined.
 
 Helped by the local administration, nearly 20 families of tribals (Brijias) have lately come down from Burha Pahad and shifted to Chapia village in Bhandariya district. 
 
 Barely 3-4 families now live on the hilltop. They are now being threatened by Maoists not to move out.
 
