GURUGRAM: A proposal for property tax exemption for all villages within the municipal limits of Gurugram was passed during the   House meeting heldin the city on Wednesday morning. 

 Mayor   brought up the topic for discussion and said villagers within the city should not have to pay  , along the lines of Delhi municipal corporation. Similar exemptions have been sought for houses built on less than 100 square yards of land within city limits and those belonging to widows and disabled persons. Referring to Rao Inderjit Singh, Azad said, “Our central minister has received these requests during his rallies in Gurugram villages and agreeing with the public, we must grant the same.”
 
 Azad receives strong backing from Singh, and her multiple references to the minister during the meet irked a few councillors who expressed their discomfort. In a bid to dissuade councillors from pushing the exemption proposal, newly-elected MCG commissioner Yashpal   told the house that MCG generated nearly Rs 30crore in property taxes from these villages annually and the money was used for development of these villages.
 
 He added that instead of the property tax exemption, the councillors should focus on development work in the villages. However, the councillors passed the proposal which would be sent to the state government for consideration.
 
 The councillors also asked MCG to continue the rebate on property tax payments at 25%. The next agenda on their list was making basic amenities available in areas around the ammunition depot.
 
 Azad said that since the government had brought down the radius of the restricted area from 900 to 300 metres, the corporation must provide for essential services within the rest of the 600 metres. Yadav, however, countered saying the boundaries had not been decided upon yet. “As per the orders of the high court, the restrictions were to be reduced on the condition that all structures within 300 metres were removed. This process is under progress under the leadership of the deputy commissioner and before that, no services can be provided in these areas,” said the commissioner.
 
 
