NEW DELHI: AAP MLA   secured bail from the Delhi   on Friday, but the relief came with  . The MLA has to furnish a personal bond of Rs 50,000 and two sureties of the like amount.

 Allowing Jarwal’s plea, Justice Mukta Gupta also referred to the “evident to the hilt trust deficit” between the MLA’s and the bureaucracy. The court suggested that Delhi government videograph the meetings between legislators and officials to see that no unforeseen incident occurs in the future and transparency is maintained.
 
 Taking note of his track record of assault on public servants, HC made it clear to Jarwal that if he repeats his illegal act it will invite cancellation of bail. It also warned him against intimidation, harassment or any threats to chief secretary  , adding that the CS and Delhi Police would be entitled to seek cancellation of his bail in such a case.
 
 “This FIR is the third one against the petitioner (Jarwal) for assault on a public servant. In case the petitioner indulges in any such illegal act in future, the bail granted to him would be liable to be cancelled,” the court observed. It imposing conditions that Jarwal will not leave the country without prior permission of the court and in case of change of his residential address, it shall be intimated to the court concerned through an affidavit.
 
 The court noted that the offences invoked against the MLA entailed maximum punishment of up to three years and said his custodial interrogation was not required as police remand has not been granted by the trial court.
 
 “In view of the nature of allegations, the sentence provided for the offences invoked, if convicted after trial, and the fact that there is no likelihood of the petitioner fleeing away from justice, this court deems it fit to grant bail to Jarwal,” the court said.
 
 Jarwal was arrested on February 20 for allegedly assaulting the chief secretary during a meeting at chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence on the midnight of February 19. The court had earlier reserved the bail plea of the Deoli legislator and said it was a very unfortunate situation where the state and the officials felt unsafe and were being threatened by each other.
 
 The bail plea of Okhla MLA Amanatullah Khan, who was also arrested on February 21, is pending before the court.
 
 A magisterial court had earlier denied bail to both of them saying the matter cannot be treated in “a casual and routine manner” while dubbing them as “history-sheeters”. Jarwal had then moved a sessions court and was again denied the relief with the court saying the situation could not be more alarming when lawmakers do not respect the rule of law.
 
 
