TIRUPUR: The state highways authority is all set to implement one of its first road development projects under public-private partnership (PPP) in   and   districts. 

 The conversion of Avinashipalayam-Oddanchattaram Road into four-lane was one of three pilot projects under PPP undertaken by the department. Government and private players will contribute 50% of the project cost and the former will repay the loan to the latter within a period of 10 years.
 
 The 70.2kilometre stretch is now a two-lane road and is the most popular route connecting Coimbatore and Tirupur districts with the southern districts. While Avinashi-Avinashipalayam stretch was recently upgraded as national highways and is being widened, the state highways department has taken up the widening of the road between Tirupur district’s   and Dindigul’s Oddanchattaram.
 
 “Though the   (NHAI) has undertaken the road development projects under PPP for a while, the state highways is now taking steps to undertake such kind of projects. Four-laning of Avinashipalayam-Oddanchattaram was one of three pilot projects to be undertaken, the other two will be coming up in Erode and   districts respectively,” said a senior official associated with the state highways authority.
 
 “With the approximate cost of Rs 600 crore for the conversion, each 50% will be invested by the government and the private players. The investment by the private player will be considered as loan and it will be repaid with nominal interest rate by the government within a period of 10 years. Till then, the private player will have to ensure maintenance of the road,” he said.
 
 “Under the project, apart from conversion into the four-lane, the construction of three major bridges, across water bodies and six minor bridges will be undertaken. It will also include a bypass road in Kallimandayam and also one-kilometre stretch overbridge across  , which is expected to reduce traffic congestion in the town,” he said.
 
 The department has completed 90% of land acquisition process and tender process to select the private players also has been finished.
 
 
