LUDHIANA: In the ongoing verification drive against property tax defaulters,   had caught hold of around 40 such institutions which filed wrong property tax returns to MC, and now the civic body has started issuing notices to such defaulters. On Monday, officials issued five notices to a private hospital near   for five consecutive years, because a lesser amount was paid to MC.

 
 Superintendent Vivek Verma, while confirming the move, said they had issued notices to  , as they did not pay the full amount of property tax, according to norms. Verma said they had inspected around 1,484 buildings out of 3,547, and the inspection was yet to be completed.
 
 Notably, in the first week of May, after getting instructions from mayor Balkar Sandhu, MC officials had started a survey of 3,547 properties in the city, including malls, factories, and other institutions. The properties were identified on the basis of house tax amount of more than Rs 25,000, which was paid by them before 2013.
 
 Meanwhile, on Wednesday in a meeting with MC Commissioner Jaskiran Singh, officials revealed the data of recovery from both pending property tax and house tax dues. From the previous year, there is growth in the total recovery, and officials are serving notices to defaulters for recovery of pending dues.
 
 This year, officials were asked to increase the pace of recovery. It was also because MC staff were not getting their salaries in time due to shortage of money, that they were pushing defaulters to clear their dues.
 
 According to the officials, last year from April 1 to May 29, MC had generated Rs 3.95 crore from property tax and Rs 5.92 lakh from house tax, but this year in this tenure, officials became successful in generating Rs 5.19 crore and 11.96 lakh from property tax and house tax respectively. MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh said there was improvement in recovery, and officials have been told to generate more so that the backlog could be cleared.
 
 However, despite all the recoveries, the staff have been unable to pull MC out of its financial crisis, and they were still not getting their salaries on time.
 
