GURUGRAM: The child welfare committee (CWC) visited   School, Palam Vihar, on Thursday to investigate the report of school authorities forcing students to sit on the floor of a separate class on January 25 over non-payment of fees. 

 Parents of DPSG students had alleged that school authorities mentally and physically harassed their kids. However, Shakuntla Dhull, chairperson, child welfare committee, said, “We went to the school and found that both sides (school and parents) were wrong at their own ends. The actual issue is that parents have not paid school fees. Now, we will speak with the parents.”
 
 The committee held a counselling session with students of classes VI-IX. “We spoke with the kids who told us it was not a big issue. Only one or two students told us that they felt bad about being forced to sit in a separate class for non-payment of fees,” Dhull said.
 
 The CWC will give its report to the district administration. “I don’t think that the matter is serious enough. But we have told the school authorities not to harass the kids,” Dhull said.
 
 Deepika Sharma, principal, DPSG, said, “Some of the students were made to sit in the dancing room and there were mats on the floor. Parents have not paid fees since April. No one is looking into this.”
 
 Meanwhile, the school   visited   World School, Sohna, on Thursday and found that the speedometres in the school   were not working properly and no measures had been put in place for special kids.
 
 Rakesh Rana, road transport authority sub-inspector, said, “The school has 45 buses. I randomly checked two and found the speedometres were not working properly. The cut for speed was at 90 or 100km/hr. The school authorities have noted this and hopefully, the issue will be resolved soon.”
 
 The team also found that some cameras were missing. “At the primary wing, there are no cameras in the corridors. The school also doesn’t have CCTV footage for the past 45 days, which is mandatory. It only has footage of one week. The school does not have facility of a washroom for kids with special needs. The school counsellor was not able to give any conclusive report and we were told the counsellor has only recently joined,” said Shweta Sharma, a member.
 
 
