DABOLIM: Goa Tourism Development Corporation will open a dedicated counter for   taxis at Goa International Airport,  , to provide and regulate tourist   services. Union minister for civil aviation Suresh   said the state government would ink an agreement with Airports Authority of India (AAI) in the coming weeks. 

 “We decided that there are certain grievances of taxi operators, so the AAI will soon enter an agreement with Goa government so that the latter can operate an additional counter for taxi operators,” Prabhu told reporters at the AAI office at Dabolim after taking stock of the ongoing development projects at Goa’s lone airport. “In addition to whatever taxi facilities are there, one more counter will be operated by GTDC to ensure that local taxi operators use these facilities so that Goans get more opportunities,” he said.
 
 During the meeting, a decision was also taken to allot a counter within the airport terminal to the state government to allow local handicrafts and agricultural produce to be sold.
 
 Union minister of state for Ayush, Shripad Naik, agriculture minister Vijai Sardesai, revenue minister Rohan Khaunte, urban development minister Francis D’Souza, and transport minister Sudin Dhavalikar were present for the review meeting. The ministers deliberated upon employment generation and investment too.
 
 Goa International Airport is being renovated and expanded at a cost of Rs 300 crore. Prabhu also expects the multi-level car parking complex to be operational by July. Prabhu said that the Dabolim Airport will continue to remain operational along with Mopa.
 
 
 
 Union minister of state for Ayush, Shripad Naik, agriculture minister Vijai Sardesai, revenue minister Rohan Khaunte, urban development minister Francis D’Souza, and transport minister Sudin Dhavalikar were present for the meeting.
 
 Goa International Airport is being renovated and expanded at a cost of Rs300 crore. Prabhu expects the multi-level car parking complex to be operational by July and that the airport will continue to remain operational along with Mopa.
 
 
 
