Almost a year after the release of his film ‘Duvvada Jagannadham’,   is back in an ‘army avatar’ for ‘
 ’.

 
 
 
 
 
 Directed by writer  , the film will mark his debut as a director and see   playing the female lead, hopefully bouncing back from her previous disaster,   and   starrer ‘Agnyaathavaasi’. In the film, Allu Arjun will play the role of Surya, an army officer who suffers from anger issues. Judging by the trailer, his superiors too, tired of his behaviour, suspend or remove him from the army. Anu Emmanuel will play the role of Varsha, a fine arts student who meets Surya while he’s on vacation. 
 
 
 
 While nothing much else is known about the film, the trailer raked in more than 6.3 M views in five days. The dialogue that Surya mouths in the trailer, “Kopam vacchinappudu manthralu raavu, boothule vasthaayi,” has even become famous, sort of setting the tone for what the film is expected to be like. The film has energetic music composed by the famous Bollywood duo Vishal & Shekhar, providing Allu Arjun ample scope to show off his dancing skills. Sainika, Beautiful Love and Iraga Iraga stand out in the album, while Lover Also Fighter Also is the one fans most watch out for.
 
 
 
 Due to hit the screens on May 4, the filmmakers have taken permissions from the governments of AP and Telangana to be allowed to screen extra shows. From May 4-11, theatres in the Telugu speaking states will be allowed five shows per day, and seeing as how the content of the film is patriotic and it’s a summer release, nothing less than magic is expected by fans at the box office. A grand premiere has also been organised in the US on May 3. 
 Tollywood has experienced a lukewarm year, beginning with Trivikram’s ‘Agnyaathavaasi’. However, the successes of Sukumar’s ‘Rangasthalam’ and ‘Koratala Siva’s ‘Bharat Ane Nenu’ changed it all, raking in huge amounts at the box office worldwide. Now, expectations are high on ‘Naa Peru Surya, Naa Illu India’ to continue on with the success streak. 
 
  
  
 Watch ‘Naa Peru Surya, Naa Illu India’ official trailer:
  
  
 
 Watch ‘Naa Peru Surya, Naa Illu India’ song 'Lover Also Fighter Also':
 
 
  
  
 
 'Naa Peru Surya, Naa Illu India' released today amidst high expectations, let’s see what the Twitterati has to say about it…
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
