HYDERABAD: Telangana State and the Election Commission (EC) remained noncommittal and equidistant from the ongoing legal tussle between the two expelled Congress MLAs and the Assembly, which stripped them of their legislator post. This was evident from the counters filed by state law department secretary and EC before the Hyderabad High Court on Friday. They made their respective positions clear in their counters filed in response to the plea filed by Congress MLAs Komatireddy Venkat Reddy and S A  , who were expelled from the Assembly for their ‘violent behaviour’ during the Governor’s address in a joint session of the Legislative Assembly and Counsel on March 12.

 The Assembly resolution and consequent gazette notification issued by the legislature say that the expelled MLAs behaved in an ‘unbecoming and unruly’ manner. However, the two MLAs have been vehemently denying any such behaviour on their part and urged the HC to summon the video footage to ascertain whether they resorted to violent behaviour that warrants their expulsion, that too without hearing their version.
 
 Justice B  , who heard their pleas, sought counters from the State, EC and the Assembly Secretary and also directed the authorities to place before the court the video footage of the alleged incident in the Assembly. In fact Advocate General (AG) D   contended before the HC that he was appearing both on behalf of the State and the Assembly. He had even assured the court that he would ensure the production of the relevant video footage. This argument of the AG did not go down well with the State, leading to a rift between the State and its principal law officer (AG). Later, State’s additional AG, J Ramachandra Rao, appeared before the HC and said that the State can only speak for itself and not for the Assembly. It was in this background, the two counters filed by the State assumed significance.
 
 V Niranjan Rao, secretary for legal affairs, legislative affairs and justice, Law department, Telangana Secretariat, in his affidavit said the expelled MLAs sought no relief from the State in their plea. “They made me as a party to the case under a misconception. I issued no proceeding against them. Nor there is any likelihood of my involvement in this case in future,” he said.
 
 Representing Election Commission of India, deputy chief electoral officer M Satyavani said though they are under an obligation to conduct bypoll to Assembly seats within six months from the time they are declared vacant, they are not going ahead as HC has asked them not to take any steps for a period of six weeks. The case will come up for hearing on April 9.
 
