MUMBAI: Mumbai now boasts of a substantial presence of expat teachers, a community growing on the back of the steady increase in international schools in the city. 

 Coming from all over the world, but particularly from the US, Canada and Europe, they are learning to adapt to Indian classrooms while introducing best practices from their own countries. Beyond the classroom, this community of expat teachers is bonding socially within over shared interests and with a spirit of inquiry about other cultures. 
  
  
 
 According to an international research agency, India’s international schools currently have a teacher strength of 25,060. While the average number of foreign teachers is about 10 in such institutions, it goes up to almost 40 in schools that charge an annual tuition fee of over $10,000 (approximately Rs 6.8 lakh). Teachers with international experience bring to the table a different pedagogy, thus enriching their hosts and giving local teachers as well as themselves a chance at resource sharing and learning. 
 
 “When you use a foreign curriculum, you need experts to deliver it so that students get the best out of it. Such engagement is a plus for local teachers as well because of resource-sharing. Teachers usually are worried about being judged, but once they interact, that changes,” said  , head of school for Garodia International Centre for Learning, Ghatkopar. 
 
 In its first year, the school has a total teaching staff of 33, of whom 10 are expats. Similarly, at the two campuses of Oberoi International School, Goregaon, 20% of the teachers are foreigners. “Expat teachers interact extensively with local teachers. The international curriculum framework is the same the world over, but the big difference is the people. Parents and teachers here are curious, happy and eager to learn,” said Anthony Batchelor, who is from Germany and is the head of the primary section at Oberoi’s Goregaon campus. He previously taught in China and  . Convincing parents about new methodologies was an initial challenge. Like, “they want to know when and how their children were going to be tested (on the subject of theatre),” said  , an Australian and drama teacher at Garodia. “There was a need to broaden their horizons, and we have been able to do so to a great extent.” 
 
 Teachers who have been in India for a few years say they are here to stay. Camille Armanini, a French teacher at Mount Litera School, BKC, came to India over seven years ago. “My first stint in India was at an international school in Bengaluru, where the expat teaching community is much bigger than in Mumbai,” she said. “But Mumbai gives us a lot more to do in the afters chool hours. It reminds me a lot of Paris, my home.”
