CHENNAI: A division bench of the   directed the additional director general of police (ADGP), economic offences wing, to produce all case records in connection with the alleged misappropriation of Rs 30 crore by officials of the   ( ).

 Observing that the three cases are eye-openers as to how public funds in banks are misappropriated by the employees in collusion with authorities, the bench comprising Justices KK Sasidharan and R Subramanian directed the investigating officer in all the cases to appear before it on June 12. The bench also stayed all proceedings in one of the cases pending before the Judicial magistrate-1 Poonamallee until further orders and directed the magistrate to forward the entire case file to the bench immediately.
 
 The bench passed the interim order on an appeal filed by TK Babu of Kolathur. Babu had alleged that the branch manager and other officials of the bank misappropriated more than Rs 30 crore and that the authorities have failed to take criminal and recovery proceedings against the accused. Babu had sought CBI investigation into the incident. However, a single judge dismissed the petition on 29 January 2016 with an observation that the police has already investigated the matter after which he went on an appeal.
 
 The division bench went through the records and said the   and Rural Development (NABARD) filed a counter affidavit, supporting the contention of the petitioner. 
 
 “The NABARD contended that by means of fraud, Rs 9.63 crore has been misappropriated by giving jewel loan. Similarly, large amounts were misappropriated in respect of other transactions. The NABARD was of the view that a fire accident has been set up at Porur branch to destroy the records.” the bench noted adding the police appear to have investigated the case registered in connection with the fraudulent acts without showing any sense of seriousness.
 
 “There was no investigation conducted by the police with regard to the fire accident and as to whether it was the handwork of the accused to destroy the evidence. We are of the view that the entire records and the police reports must be verified before taking any further action,” the bench said and issued directives to the economic offences wing ADGP.
 
 
