BENGALURU: KSRTC’s  , which offered its   the convenience of quick passage through toll booths, appears to have run into rough weather. 

 The state-run corporation is likely to terminate its contract with a private bank which is functioning as the service provider for the project. KSRTC officials said the bank had failed to resolve issues related to daily toll payments, including double billing and multiple entries despite several showcause notices.
 
 “We’ve stopped using FASTag after we received excess toll bills. These issues, though communicated to the bank and  , are yet to be resolved,” said an official.
 
 Officials said they are planning to invite new banks to conduct trials to continue with the project. FASTag devices use radio frequency identification technology and allow vehicles to pass through designated lanes without waiting in queue at toll plazas since the payment is made electronically. “We have records of timings and schedules of our buses passing through toll plazas, but there were discrepancies in the bills generated by the bank. Issues like double billing and multiple entries are yet to be addressed by the bank. The bank representatives claimed they are not trained for the project,” said an official.
 
 Facility in 5,000 buses
 
 KSRTC was also one of the first state road transport undertakings in the country that introduced FASTag in a largescale in about 5,000 buses. The plan was to cut down the waiting time at booths and save toll charges with discounts offered by FASTag.
 
 KSRTC buses operate through 60 toll plazas across Karnataka and southern states and pay Rs 5 crore a month as toll fee. “A separate lane for buses will also help passengers as the travel time will be reduced,” the official added.
 
 Many FASTag users have raised complaints in online complaint forums about incorrect deduction of amounts from FASTag accounts. In response to a complaint, one of the public sector banks tweeted: “You can report an incorrect deduction by calling us at call centre. We’ll review your request and revert the incorrect deduction (sic).”
 
 
