It is a scene that unfailingly plays out prior to each academic year: Thousands of parents standing in queues outside imposing gates — sometimes lining up even before dawn — filling up lengthy forms, counting and recounting cash, all to get their child admitted in school. There are thousands of others who wait in even longer queues requesting free seats under the Right to Education ( ) Act.

 While many factors come into play during admissions — economic backgrounds, proximity to schools, educational qualification of parents, ability to pay donations and so on — the most basic is the child’s age, which can differ from state to state. For example in Andhra Pradesh, a child can be admitted into Class I when she is just five years old. The minimum age was five years in   too, but that was years ago.
 
 
  
 
 
 The decision on the appropriate age for a child to join a particular class is determined by a variety of factors that experts have studied for years. One criteria school boards and governments consider is the fine motor co-ordination and neuromuscular development of a child, which is key to development of child pedagogy.
 
 But the state government’s frequent changes in framing rules on the minimum age for enrolment suggests that there is an ad hoc mechanism in place. Authorities implement changes in a matter of months, which is insufficient time to commission a study to determine a new age for admission.
 
 Frequent changes in the age limit for admissions have not only left school managements and parents confused, but have also resulted in thousands of children losing an academic year even before being admitted to Class I.
 
 Beginning January 2017, the government has revised the age-limit to Class I several times. This year, it first increased the minimum age from five years and five onths to five years and 10 months and reversed the order on May 23, bringing it down to five years and five months (upper limit was seven years).
 
 “The age relaxation was not in the interest of government schools because there is no provision for them to run pre-primary education unlike private schools which conduct lower KG and upper KG classes,” said   V P, fellow and programme head, Centre for Child and the Law (CCL),   (NLSIU). He revealed that they had demanded the government reverse its order since government schools would not get students for Class I.
 
 Now that a minimum age has been fixed at five years and five months, Niranjanaaradhya said it should not be changed again and any revision in the future must be in consonance with national policy.
 
 The latest turnaround means that those who were ineligible to apply earlier because they were a few days short of the minium limit, will now be allowed to do so. This, though, will not apply to students seeking admission under the Right to Education Act (RTE) quota as admissions for RTE seats are over. It means they will miss a year for no fault of theirs.
 
 After the government revised the age limit many private schools have been flooded with applications, but most of them have closed admissions. “Parents are approaching us seeking admissions for their wards as they are eligible now. But we have no seats left,” said the principal of a private school in Vijayanagar.
 
 Shashi Kumar D, general secretary of   in Karnataka (KAMS), said since most schools affiliated to   and ICSE do not follow the state government’s rules, the move will affect only schools that follow the state syllabus.
 
 “The government recently amended the Karnataka State Education Act to bring private schools, including those affiliated to CBSE and ICSE, under state rules, but this has been disputed and the case is pending in court,” Shashi Kumar said. “So ultimately, only state board schools will be hit by the government’s U-turn on the minimum age limit.”
 
 The government has sought to justify its move, saying it was necessary to protect the interest of government schools where a majority of students study. “We agree the flip-flop has caused confusion, but the government wants to bring in stability and no more changes are in the offing,” a senior official from the education department said.
 
 
 
