HUBBALLI: People spend holidays in front of the television or go on a outing. But, residents of   devoted the holiday on Friday to cleaning the area and educating people about not using plastic.

 The residents’ association of Siddheshwar Park, under the guidance of Nagarika Arogya Prerana Sansthe along with Gnyaneshwari Mahila Mandal, '104 Arokyavani', Youths for Seva conducted a day-long   in the colony. Residents segregated plastic and dry waste, including newspapers. Siddheshwar Park consists of three lanes with 182 plots, of which 172 have houses and the rest are open sites.
 
 Dr  , a retired officer of community medicine department, said the authorities which are supposed to carry out the cleaning drive and create awareness on the hazards of plastic, have failed to discharge their duty properly and that’s why they took up cleaning the place. "For the first three months, we’ll take up the drive to remove plastic and dry waste. People between 18 years and 80 years are participating in it. The drive will be conducted every Sunday morning for two hours," he said.
 
 He added that they found empty sachets of gutka, tobacco and cigarette packs. “We request everyone in the colony not to chew tobacco or sell gutka, smoke cigarettes and use other products which are harmful. There are 22 commercial shops in the area, of which six sell such products and most use plastic materials,” he said.
 
 Samasher Shaikh, in-charge of '104 Arogyavani', said, “Empty drinking water bottles, empty sachets of chips and other items and plastic materials was found in large quantities in the drive.” The Nagarika Arogya Prerana Sansthe plans to give the plastic material to private agencies engaged in recycling it.
 
 O S Mudaraddi, retired employee of a private company, said, “It’s a great feeling to work for the society. I’m associated with many NGOs taking active part in the cleaning drive.”
 
 Raju Vaneshi, Pramod Hiregoudar, members of Youths for Seva, and students  , said curbing the use of plastic is an important part of the programme.
 
 
