IMPHAL: Border police have pushed back more than 71 illegal migrants, including women, for not possessing identify cards and not allowed them to enter the state after   chief minister N Biren Singh issued strict instructions in this regard. 

 At Mao gate in   district bordering   along the   highway, the police foiled the entry of 65 illegal migrants. The police said they were able to detect the illegal migrants once they launched a thorough check of all vehicles heading towards Imphal. The migrants were made to return to their respective states.
 
 In a similar exercise, the police at Jiribam, bordering Assam, also made six illegal migrants return to their state, the source added. Taking serious note of the inflow of a large number of illegal migrants, including Rohingyas, and the busting of two fake Aadhaar card manufacturing units, chief minister Singh asked the police to be on high alert at the border.
 
 A couple of days back, the police arrested eight Rohingyas, including five minors, from the Hatta Golapati area in Imphal city. Biren, who also holds the home portfolio, cautioned that if any illegal migrant was caught on the routes leading to the border points, action would be taken against the officer concerned manning stretches like Moreh, Mao and Jiribam.
 
 Citing an example, Biren said if an illegal migrant is caught at the Pallel police station, the police officials concerned at Tengnoupal and Moreh would face stringent action. The chief minister, however, clarified that those with valid identification documents were free to travel in the state.
 
 "If our own people are helping these illegal entrants to settle in the state then the future of the indigenous people and the state would be in danger," Biren said, adding that house owners also need to verify tenants before letting out premises.
 
 The chief minister mentioned that his government has removed the Common Service Centres as access points to provide Aadhaar-related services throughout the state and such services would be offered by government-recognized agencies only.
 
 The chief minister asked the DGP to install special check posts with gates at Behiang, Moreh, Mao and Jiribam. 
 
 
