BENGALURU:   were denied their date with history by John Gregory and his resilient band of warriors as Chennaiyin FC sealed a 3-2 win to secure their second   title in four years at the Sree Kanteerava Stadium here on Saturday.

 
 
 
 Brazilian Mailson Alves - whose early gaffe helped Sunil Chhetri hand the hosts the advantage - came back in style to score a brilliant double and compatriot Raphael Augusto’s inch-perfect finish in the second half ended Bengaluru’s 15-match unbeaten run across all competitions in front of their 25,000-odd fans at their ‘Fortress’. It was a cold, brutal jolt.
 
 Both of Alves’ goals were an exquisite display of one of Chennaiyin’s biggest strengths this season - set-pieces. Gregory, on match eve, had predicted the game would be decided on set-pieces and his boys stayed true to his words.
 
 
 
 
 Nine minutes into the game, however, Chennaiyin were reeling. Bengaluru linchpin Miku had set Udanta Singh free on the right and the crafty winger made room to cross the ball into the box. His effort took a deflection of Alves’ foot but still made its way across the face of the goal to Chhetri at the far post, who had all the time in the world to bend and plant his header into the back of the Chennaiyin nets.
 
 Chennaiyin pushed with urgency along the wings and Alves got his redemption in the 17th minute. The visitors, who enjoy the highest number of successful set-piece conversions in the league, unleashed yet another classic - Alves leaping high to guide Gregory Nelson’s swinging corner off the Bengaluru upright for the equalizer.
 
 
  
 
 Bengaluru, playing a three-man defence to make up for suspended left-back Subhasish Bose, struggled to breach Chennai’s compact and effective midfield marshalled by Dhanpal Ganesh and Bikramjit SIngh. Dimas Delgado was briefly successful when a haphazard Chennaiyin clearance fell perfectly for him, but his goal-bound half volley was headed off the line by Spaniard Inigo Calderon.
 
 But at the stroke of half-time, Chennaiyin edged ahead from another Nelson-Alves masterpiece - the Dutchman whipping in a swinging corner and Alves, yet again, rising above his markers for his second header past goalkeeper Gurpreet Singh Sandhu.
 
 Bengaluru began the second half with gusto but Chennaiyin clearly had the measure of their neighbours. Udanta briefly had the crowd in raptures but his 52nd minute conversion was ruled offside. As the hosts pushed, Chennaiyin struck the death blow.
 
 Jeje Lalpekhlua broke through the Bengaluru offside trap on Nelson’s excellent through ball and the India striker turned past defenders John Johnson and Juanan Gonzales to set up Augusto. The Brazilian, in the finest of attempts, curled the ball around Juanan and past Gurpreet into the far bottom corner in the 67th minute. Known for their fightback, Bengaluru battled ahead, with Chhetri and Udanta coming agonizingly close to bringing the hosts back into the game. Miku converted Udanta’s 90th minute cross to raise hopes of a comeback win. But as chants of ‘we can do it’ reverberated around the Kanteerava, Chennaiyin held their composure to eke out a memorable victory.
 
 
  Bengaluru FC 2 (Sunil Chhetri 9, Miku 90) lost to Chennaiyin FC 3 (Mailson Alves 17, 45, Raphael Augusto 67).
 
  
 
