PANCHKULA: Due to the blockage at Sector 7/18 dividing road near housing board chowk by the protesting extension lecturers, commuters from Chandigarh and Panchkula had a tough time on Thursday morning. Panchkula traffic had to divert the traffic through Sector 7/18 roundabout and through Shakti Bhawan chowk. 

 The agitating extension lecturers had gathered together in the rally ground in Sector 5 and started their rally at 2pm on Wednesday. The protesters’ aim was to gherao the   following their various unfulfilled demands including job security in the department, being provided with permanent jobs, and availability of government benefits among others. 
 
 The extension lecturers were stopped by Chandigarh police at housing board chowk on the assurance of a meeting with the Haryana chief minister. However, having received no further update from the government, protesters spent their night at housing board chowk and did not budge from the road during morning hours as well. Protesters opened half of the road at 12 noon on Thursday when officials once again assured them of a meeting with Haryana chief minister at his residence in Chandigarh. Cops managed to shift them to a park located near housing board light point and opened the complete road by 1 pm.
 
 Students and the working class faced the brunt of the blocked roads. Surbhi Joshi, 16, a Class XI student and a resident of Panchkula, Sector 10, said, “I have my exam today and I got late due to the blockage on road. I’m worried about the exam right now.”
 
 Pradeep Kumar, 37, a private firm employee in   and a resident of Sector 11, said, “The road is jam-packed at MDC Singh Dwar as everybody is going to Chandigarh from this way. Cops have said the road from Panchkula towards housing board light point has been blocked by some protesters.”
 
 Station house officer, traffic, Surender Singh, said, “There was a slight problem during the office hours. However, we succeeded in diverting the traffic through Sector 7/18 dividing road and Shakti Bhawan chowk.”
 
 Few protesters suffered injuries in their eyes and ears due to the water cannon used by the cops on them on Wednesday. State president, extension lecturers  , said, “We will continue our   if the government will not fulfill our demands.”
 
 
