GURUGRAM: A   working in a house in  , has been accused of digitally raping the six-year-old daughter of the security guard of the house. A case has been registered at the women’s police station, though the accused is still at large.

 The girl’s father, who is originally from Kannauj district in Uttar Pradesh, had gone to the market to purchase plumbing material required for ongoing renovation and repair of the house on May 5. Taking advantage of the situation, the mason sexually assaulted the minor girl. The matter was reported to police on May 9. The girl’s mother had died three years ago. Her father had joined service as security guard in the house in Block C of Sushant Lok 1 four months ago, and the two had been living in the same house since then.
 
 “Repair and maintenance work of the house where I work is currently in progress. Mason Mukesh and helper Pandu have been working here for over a week,” said the father in his complaint. On May 5, he had gone to the market, leaving his minor daughter asleep in the third floor of the house.
 
 “I had gone to Vyapar Kendra to get the material. It took me around 2-3 hours to return,” he wrote in his complaint. On his return, he found his daughter complain of stomach pain. Concerned, he took her to a doctor in Kanhai village, where she was given some painkillers.
 
 The girl was fine for the next few days, till the effect of the drug subsided. On May 8, she again complained of stomach pain. When questioned further, she shared her experience with her father. “On May 5, when I had gone to market, Mukesh and Pandu were working on the third floor, where my daughter was asleep,” said the father, adding her daughter told him Mukesh had hurt her by forcibly pushing his fingers in her private parts.
 
 Shocked at hearing of the atrocity, the father rushed to the women’s police station on May 9 and filed an FIR against Mukesh, who lives in Sushant Lok 1. 
 
 Once counselling and medical examination of the girl confirmed sexual attack, the accused were booked under Section 6 (punishment for penetrative sexual  ) of   Act. 
 
 Poonam Hudda, the SHO of women’s police station in Sector 51, said the girl is now physically fine, while the accused is still at large. “We’re conducting raids and hope to arrest the accused at the earliest,” she said.
 
 
