SURAT: The   Festival-2018 was inaugurated at Surat International Exhibition and Convention Centre (SIECC) at   on Saturday with a view to project Surat as the emerging startup city in India and abroad.

 The two-day long startup festival was inaugurated by Mayor   in the presence of municipal commissioner M Thennarasan and VJan Myhr, vice consul, consulate general of Sweden, and director of technical and higher education department, Government of  , KK Nirala. 
 
 The municipal corporation is preparing a vision document for a startup and trade facilitation centre at Parvat Patiya, which will provide an eco-system for new startups to connect with national and international businesses and facilitate innovations.
 
 The startup festival featured idea competition to showcase innovation in sectors like textile, diamond industry, smart city, food processing, transportation, health, fintech, agritech etc. Out of the 180 ideas, five best innovative ideas for startups were selected by the jury and that finally three participants were declared winners. 
 
 The three winners of innovative idea competition will be awarded by chief minister Vijay Rupani during the Surat Smart City Summit to be held on Sunday. 
 
 “The two-day festival is an endeavour to bring key stakeholders under one umbrella to collaborate and tap growth opportunities. The maiden startup festival is a huge success as we had more than 100 startups participating from 12 different states. The idea competition was a major hit with around 180 ideas submitted during the competition,” said deputy municipal commissioner CY Bhatt. 
 
 A series of seminars were held on various topics including role of incubation and accelerators in startup building, design thinking and tech solutions, social and women entrepreneurship, blockchain etc. 
 
 The day two on Sunday will feature a conference with decision makers from government and corporate sector taking part in exchange of ideas. Also, the startups will get an opportunity to discuss their ideas with top investors and venture capitalists as well. 
 
 
