Mumbai: The city will continue to be on tenterhooks on Wednesday with one   party calling a Maharashtra  , and several others, though not supporting the strike, unveiling their own protest plans against the violence in Pune district on Monday. 

 The government signalled it was not expecting much trouble by not asking schools to shut. Some schools, however, declared a holiday on Wednesday and the school buses refused to ply in the morning shift (P 3). Around 13 Mumbai University exams are scheduled on Wednesday.
 
 The police said they have chalked out full bandobast plans and the “maximum” number of personnel will be on the roads to keep peace.
 
 Prakash Ambedkar, grandson of Dr B R Ambedkar and president of Republican Party of India (Bharip Bahujan Mahasangh), called the bandh. It is being backed by the Left and the umbrella Bhima-Koregaon Shauryadin Prerna Abhiyan comprising 250 social organisations which had held an event to mark the 200th anniversary of the victory of the British army, which included Dalit soldiers, over the Peshwa’s forces. 
 
 The Republican Party of India (Athawale) and Bhim Army Bharat Ekta Mission, another RPI faction, said the Dalit community will not support the bandh, but will protest on their own against the Pune violence. “We will not participate in the Maharashtra bandh, but   and morchas to various police station in Mumbai will continue on Wednesday,” said Gautam Sonawane, RPI (A) state president.
 
 The larger parties, BJP and its ruling partner Shiv Sena, Congress and MNS, are likely to keep to the sidelines and watch the developments.
 
 “We will be deploying police personnel at all locations. The riot control police and state reserve police force will also be part of the bandobast,” said Deven Bharti, joint police commissioner, law and order. “There will be maximum number of police personnel for the bandobast.”
 
 Quick response team (QRT) commandos will be on alert. “Since all the schools and colleges are open, no one should worry about anything and trust the police. We are ready to deal with any situation,” said another officer. An eye is being kept on Dalit pockets and volatile areas, especially Chembur, Ghatkopar, Vikhroli, Sion Koliwada, Antop Hill, Dharavi, Worli, Naigaon, or Malad-Malvani.
 
 Yet, sources said, with two of the biggest Dalit parties flexing muscles, bus and train services could be disrupted for at least a few hours. Shops in the city may also shut for some time to avoid damage and hawkers are also likely to stay off the roads. “People may not come out on roads or skip office fearing some untoward incident or heavily disrupted traffic,” said an official.
 
 The BEST said it plans to ply with police escorts and instal grilles on windscreens to prevent damage due to stone pelting as on Tuesday. Autorickshaws and taxis will ply depending on the situation; so will the aggregator cabs, said a policeman.
 
 Prakash Ambedkar accused “Manohar aka Sambhaji Bhide of Shivraj Pratishthan, Manoj Ekbote of Samastha Hindu Aghadi and a third person named Ghuge” of inciting the violence in Pune and demanded their arrest. The groups are close to the ruling party, he alleged at a press conference, but would not specify if it was the BJP or Sena. He demanded that both parties speak out on the issue.
 
 
