Nagpur: Safe drinking water, which has been a far-off dream for thousands of people living around the Bhandewadi dumping yard, might come true soon. Responding favourably to their pleas, guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule has said that a potable water ATM will be set-up in the area. Speaking to TOI, Bawankule said that the plant would come-up at Bidgaon, which is barely a kilometer away from dumping site of city’s municipal solid waste. Bawankule added that he plans to use funds procured from corporate social responsibility of some private companies. “I have approached some and the final order should get passed in the coming ten days,” he said.  According to the minister, the plant will cost around Rs 12 lakh and will be based on ultra-filtration technology. Similar to Reverse Osmosis (RO), ultrafiltration is a process which separates suspended solids, solutes and bacteria and viruses to produce water with high purity.  Once the plant is set-up, Bawankule plans to hand it over to women self-help groups. “Drinking water will be sold at a nominal price of Rs 5 for 20 litres. We want to ensure that clean drinking water reaches to every stratum,” the minister added.  In the last one year, Bawankule has dedicated such water filter ATMS at many villages in the region. TOI had earlier reported how against the packaged drinking water, these ATMs are providing safe and low-cost drinking water to many rurals.  Bidgaon is one of the areas which is worst affected due to contamination of groundwater. Since years, residents have been suffering from various health problems relating to stomach, kidney, skin and other diseases like jaundice and typhoid. Recently, TOI had collected water samples from few borewells in the area and got them tested in a private laboratory. Results showed that some parameters were higher than permissible limits and the water was unsafe for drinking. On the minister’s assurance, residents said that they have been hearing such promises since last 3-4 years. “Since two years we are being told that a water ATM will come up in our area but nothing happened. Few years back, we demanded a drinking water pipeline but no steps were taken. Ministers only visit our area when elections are near,” they said. Apart from water contamination, the health of these residents is also at stake due to toxic air. TOI has been repeatedly reporting how the massive air pollution caused due to burning of all kinds of waste. “The minister’s priority should also be to tackle this problem. We deserve to breathe clean air,” they said. Bawankule was hopeful that the waste-to-energy plant will solve waste management problems at Bhandewadi. The real problem, however, is the existing over 100 crore kilograms of solid waste which is frequently on fire. “We are exploring ways to get rid of it,” said Bawankule.