LUDHIANA: An SUV killed a three-and-a-half-year-old boy near   in   on Saturday.

 The child, identified as Saurav Kumar, had gone to the temple in the morning with other children when an SUV crushed the child while reversing. The driver tried to flee, but people present on the spot nabbed him and handed him over to the police.
 
 The child was taken to a nearby hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead.
 
 The Sarabha Nagar police have registered a case under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) against Gaurav Jain, 30, of Agar Nagar.
 
 Boy’s father Anuroop Kumar, who works as a salesman in a mall on Ludhiana-Ferozepur Road, claimed his son used to go near the temple with other children often. On Saturday morning too, he had gone there with other children. Anuroop later learnt that Saurav has been crushed by a Toyota Fortuner.
 
 The official from Sarabha Nagar police station said Gaurav Jain goes to Nav Durga Mata Temple every day to distribute biscuits among children. He distributed biscuits and was about to leave when he accidently crushed Saurav, who was standing behind.
 
 The Sarabha Nagar police have arrested the accused and lodged an FIR against him.
 
 In another accident, 42-year-old priest of a temple Prabhakar Raturi of Maharaj Nagar sustained injuries when a speeding car hit him on Pakhowal road. It was alleged that a teenager girl was driving the car but she fled leaving the damaged vehicle on the road.
 
 Prabhakar was standing with his scooter on the roadside waiting for his friend on Pakhowal Road. Meanwhile, a speeding Toyota Etios coming from Bhai Bala Chowk collided with a Maruti Suzuki WagonR car near Sant Ishar Singh Nagar crossing on Pakhowal Road. After collision the Etios car rammed into the scooter and left the man injured.
 
 An eyewitness said there were teenage girls in the car who left the spot leaving the vehicle on road. Meanwhile, the injured was rushed to a private hospital where he is undergoing treatment.
 
 The Etios car was carrying sticker of Sutlej Club with the membership number on it.
 
 The Kochar Market police reached the spot and towed away the damaged car from the road.
 
 The officials said the police are yet to record the statement of injured. The entire incident was captured in CCTV camera installed near the spot.
 
 
