VADODARA: They may have missed the opportunity to become national T20 champions by a whisker but the Baroda women’s team has won accolades for their performance in the tournament this season. 

 The Baroda eves made it to the top three among all the teams in the elite league of Senior Women’s T20 tournament for the first time. off-spinner   bagged 14 wickets to become the highest wicket-taker in the tournament. 
 
 “The credit for this fantastic performance in the T20 tourney goes to entire team. They played as a unit. Every player contributed when it mattered,” said Vinit Wadkar, Baroda women team’s coach. Baroda won six out of the seven matches it played in the tournament. And, it could have won the championship as well had it won the seventh match against  . “We had equal number of points with Delhi and Goa in the final round. But Delhi had a better run-rate so it walked away with the trophy,”   said.
 
 When asked about the strategies that went behind the performance, Wadkar said, “We kept discussing our next move according to the match situation.   did well as a captain and the players also stuck to the plan,” Wadkar told TOI. 
 
 Pathan, who took 10 wickets in the tourney, gave credit to Wadkar too. “He talked freely with us and never pressurized us. He told us that if our process is good we will eventually win the games. He just doesn’t know our issues but also offers solutions.” Baroda team beat teams like Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Uttar Pradesh, Bengal and Delhi in this tournament. 
 
 Both coach and captain said that the team’s performance in fielding, bowling and batting has improved a lot. “The wins have made us confident enough to beat any team. The girls have started believing in themselves,” Pathan said. Baroda girl   was recently picked up for Indian team that will tour   for T20 tournament. Wadkar believes that Baroda will produce more international women cricketers soon. The Baroda team was also among the top three in the senior women’s one-day tournament in December last year. 
 
 
