CHANDIGARH: After the   and   high court on February 20 struck down the provisions of the Punjab Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes (Reservation of Services) Act, 2006, the Punjab government has started the process of collecting fresh data on reservation from all its departments.

 The move by the HC is likely to affect promotions of scheduled castes made in the past on the basis of reservation.
 
 In a letter sent to all the boards and corporations on April 30, the Punjab’s department of welfare of scheduled castes, other backward classes and minorities, has sought details of the quantum of reservation already provided for the scheduled castes under the rules of various boards and corporations. The communiqué mentions that despite earlier directions, none of the boards and corporations had submitted the required data.
 
 Striking down provisions of the Act, the high court had reasoned there was no quantifiable data available with the state government which could justify any reservation or percentage of reservation for promotions. The existing law provides for 14% promotion quota for scheduled castes in group A and B in state government services and 20% in group C and D. But the Punjab government had submitted before the high court as per the data collected from 47 administrative departments, “though not complete and faulty to some extent”, the scheduled caste reservation has reached 19.07% in group A, 16.34% in group B, 27.47% in group C and 31.78% in group D.
 
 TOI had on May 6 reported advocate general Atul Nanda’s advice to the Punjab government that high court’s verdict would even affect promotions of scheduled castes made in the past on the basis of the reservation policy. “Since the judgement of the high court does not specifically restrict the operation to the future, even the promotions given to the SC/STs on the basis of the reservation policy in the past would stand affected by the judgement,”   had said.
 
 The advocate general had advised the state government that the only immediate course of action was to re-enact through ordinance struck down sections of the Act after relating the reservation to the updated quantifiable data in terms of the Supreme Court’s M   judgement of 2006.
 
 The M Nagaraj judgement makes it clear that a reservation should be made after satisfying itself on the basis of three criteria – backwardness, inadequacy of representation and efficiency in administration. Nanda had emphasized that the fresh exercise had to be undertaken only on the basis of fresh data and the existing data couldn’t be used without challenging the high court’s judgement.
 
 
