PATNA: City ghats have been decked up for the four-day ‘Chaiti Chhath Puja’, which will begin with ‘nahay-khay’ on Wednesday.

 Thousands of devotees will offer prayers to the rising and setting sun on Friday and Saturday, respectively. The Patna district administration has given final touches to 15 major ghats in the city. Digha (gate number 93) and Collectorrate ghats are expected to witness the highest number of devotees. The administration has identified 10 ghats as dangerous. Devotees will not be allowed to perform rituals at these ghats.
 
 Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi said erection of barricades at the ghats was at the final stage. “Bind Toli, Janardan, Pahalwan, Rajapur Pul, Shiva Ghat, Minar Ghat, Khajekalan Ghat, Mirchai Ghat, Bans Ghat and Kurji Ghat have been identified as dangerous. These ghats have marshy land and too much of slush. The administration does not want to take any risk with the lives of devotees,” said the DM.
 
 Several city temples have also prepared artificial ponds for allowing devotees to offer arghya. Priest Alok Shastri, head of   near Hartali Mor, said a small pond had been developed on the temple premises for the convenience of the devotees.
 
 “The devotees will seek blessing from the   and also pray for good health, wealth and happiness for themselves and their near and dear ones. Taking the holy bath, fasting, offering prasad and prayers to the Sun God during sunset and sunrise are integral parts of the festival,” said Shastri.
 
  or Chhota Chhath is celebrated in the month of Chaitra as per Hindu calendar. Just like the Kartik Chhath, this festival is also celebrated for four days.
 
 Brijbhushan Vidyarthi, another priest, said, “Devotees observe Chaiti Chhath few days after Holi festival in the month of Chaitra. Purity is strictly ensured during ‘nahay-khay’. It will be followed by ‘kharna’, when prasad will be prepared in jaggery and distributed by the devotees among neighbours, friends and relatives.”
 
 During the festival, married women observe fast for 36 hours and devotees traditionally offer wheat, milk, sugarcane, bananas and coconuts to the Sun God. 
 
 
