NEW DELHI: A   last week found that a middleaged man sitting next to her was masturbating.

 The woman, who recorded the act on her mobile, alleged that despite raising an alarm none of the 50-odd co-passengers came to her help.
 
 The woman uploaded the video on Twitter, tagging the Delhi Police. An FIR was later registered after she tagged the police chief on the tweet.
 
 The woman said she had stood up and told other passengers about the man’s actions. “One of the onlookers simply said ‘okay’ and looked the other way,” she said.
 
 
 
 
 DU Student Recalls Her Bus Ordeal
 
 We have registered a case under sections of sexual assault and sexually explicit gestures. Her statement has been recorded and efforts are being made to identify the man,” said Monika Bhardwaj, additional DCP, south-west.
 
 According to the woman, the incident happened on February 7, when she had boarded a DTC bus on route number 774 to go home from her college. The woman said she took a seat at the rear and plugged in her earphones. “I was reading a book when I felt the seat beside me shaking. I could see the man beside me shaking. He also touched me a few times on my waist. Initially, I did not realise (what was going on) but switched on the camera of my phone to take a video, where I noticed him masturbating,” she said.
 
 “I yelled at him saying he should be ashamed of what he was doing, to which the man pretended as if he did not know what I was talking about. In return, he asked me whether I wished to get off the bus,” she said.
 
 The woman said she then told other passengers about the man’s behaviour but got no response. Soon thereafter, the bus stopped at IIT gate bus stop and the man got off. “She was so shocked by the incident that she had started trembling when she called us narrating the incident,” one of her class-mates said.
 
 She and her friends then went to   police station and registered a complaint. “The cops asked me to forward them video and then registered a case after some time,” she said.
 
 In the video, the woman had captured a part of the man’s face. He seemed to be in his 40s and was wearing a red shirt and a black jacket. The woman said she was so traumatised by the incident that she returned home and did not report the matter to anyone, except for uploading the video on Twitter.
 
 Teams have been formed to nab the man using a grab from the video. The bus in which the women travelled has been tracked, but cops said that DTC had informed them that no   footage of the incident was available.
 
 
 
