THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:  , who is under suspension, has approached the central   seeking a thorough probe into the circumstances and reasons that lead to the ‘humiliating’ setbacks in the high-profile corruption cases investigated by the state vigilance while he was the  .

 
 In the opening part of the complaint, Thomas claimed that there were concerted attempts to harass, intimidate and silence him for his stringent actions against maladministration and corruption. According to him, he was never given competent consuls of his choice to defend his position in the high court in any of the cases.
 
 Naming two high court judges who passed a series of verdicts in a number of corruption cases, Thomas argued that the verdicts adversely impacted the   activities and demoralized him and other officers. “The perpetrators of the corruption have even taken the judiciary for a ride in series of corruption cases reported or supervised by me. I do not directly make any allegation against any public offices at this stage, however, for the maintenance of justice, it is highly necessary for the highest investigating agencies of the country to investigate into the levels and roles of all in the concerted actions against the interest of the state and justice, targeting me and the cases which I reported or supervised,” he said in the complaint sent to CVC through state chief secretary.
 
 “Combined legal opinion received from the official legal advisors implies that the consecutive judgements of justice (name withheld) of the high court in a short period shows a pattern and is not in the best interest if anti-corruption governance responses required… the orders... not only slowed down several anti-corruption initiatives of VCB at that time, but also constrained the investigating and preventive officers…,” he said.
 
 Referring to the Pattoor land scam, Thomas said, “I was not given proper legal assistance in the court to defend my side… All the high-profile cases derailed or closed or negligently proceeded as a result of the deficient representation by the prosecutors and investigators before the high court judges during 2017 and 2018 may be enquired thoroughly for possible conspiracy, abuse of power and obstruction of justice,” he said.
 
