The demise of the first female superstar of Bollywood,   has left   and her fans in a deep state of shock.

 
  on Saturday after a cardiac arrest. She was 54.
 
 
 
 Members of the film industry took to Twitter to express their grief over her shocking demise and offered condolences to the family.
 
 Minutes before the news of her death broke, her 'Khuda Gawah' co-star   posted a tweet saying he was feeling uneasy. His tweet has left the Twitterer wondering if Big B had a premonition about the death of the veteran actress.
 
 "Na jaane kyun, ek ajeeb si ghabrahat ho rahi hai (Don't know why, there's a weird anxiety)," the 75-year-old tweeted.
 
  
  
 The 'Pink' star and Sridevi featured in 'Inquilaab' and have also shared screen space in 1986's 'Aakhree Raasta'.One of her earliest films as an adult lead was opposite Tamil superstars   and  . Sridevi was only 13 when she was cast alongside two of her favourite proteges in K Balachander's 'Moondru Mudichu' (1976).
 
 
 The superstars, too, took to social media to express their grief.
 
 
 "I'm shocked and very disturbed. I've lost a dear friend and the industry has lost a true legend. My heart goes out to her family and friends. I feel the pain with them #RIPSridev ... you will be missed," tweeted 'Thalaivar'.
 
  
  
 Mourning her demise, Haasan said how he is now 'haunted' by the melody from their best-known Hindi film together.
 
 "Have witnessed Sridevi's life from an adolescent teenager to the magnificeint lady she became. Her stardom was well deserved. Many happy moments with her flash through my mind including the last time I met her. Sadma's lullaby haunts me now. We'll miss her," he posted.
 
  
  
 Her 'Chandni' co-star  , tweeted, "Woken up to this tragic news. Absolute shock. Sad. Heartfelt condolences to Boney and their two daughters!"
 
  
  
 Sridevi is survived by her husband   and two daughters, Janhvi, who is filming her debut project 'Dhadak' and was not in Dubai with the family, and Khushi. 
 
  
  
 
