CHENNAI: As a culmination to what started as a movement for legal entitlements in a Kisan Mukti Yatra last year, farmers’ organisations across the country on Thursday, submitted memoranda to more than 200 collectorates to push for two private members’ bills. 

 Initiated under the umbrella of   (AIKSCC), the bills have been formulated to address and resolve the concerns of freedom from indebtedness and guaranteed remunerative prices. “In an all-women’s mock parliament in Delhi last year, hundreds of widows of farmers participated and spoke of the issues that pushed their spouses to end their lives. After traveling to 22 states and interacting with thousands of farmers and farmers’ unions, we arrived at these two issues as the root cause for most of their problems,” says Ananthoo, coordinator of Safe Food Alliance, one of the members of AIKSCC. On Thursday, the bills were discussed in the city, with participation from farmers, public and the media, at ICSA Centre, Egmore.
 
 Farmers rights activist  , who has been a part of the movement from the inception, said the bills have been conceptualised holistically, taking into account, long-term and short-term contributors. “When farmers put forward a demand, the government comes up with a schematic response that doesn’t solve their problem. In loan waiver implementation for instance, a large number of farmers — even those within the institutional credit fold — are kept out. Loan waivers do not cover non-instutional loans. Whereas in the bills we have included private loans as well,” she says.
 
 “We’re also saying that the government must take some policy imperatives for announcing prices, other than cost of production, by giving more bonuses and incentives for particular crops so that not all farmers are trapped between wheat and rice. If   (MSP) becomes meaningful for all crops, then the farmer can opt for what is suitable for them,” she adds.
 
 According to AIKSCC, 21 political parties, including the AIADMK and the DMK, have lent their support to these bills after which they were fine-tuned and submitted in the Parliament, by Raju Shetti, Lok Sabha MP and K K Ragesh, Rajya Sabha MP as Private Members’ Bills.
 
 
