GHAZIABAD: A 25-year-old man, working as a senior process associate with an IT company in Noida, has been running from one police station to another in Ghaziabad for the past two weeks to get an   in a case of robbery, but to no avail.

 Mohammad Faraz Ansari, a resident of Meerut’s Bunkar Nagar, commutes using the public transport to Sector 62 in Noida, where his office is located. On his way back to Meerut late in the evening, he gets the cab facility from his office to Mohan Nagar, and from there, he takes a bus to Meerut.
 
 Ansari was allegedly robbed by five men on the night of February 19 after he sat in a cab offering a ride to the neighbouring city. The occupants of the car along with its driver turned out to be robbers and soon after he sat in the car, they pointed a gun at him and asked him to hand over all his belongings.
 
 They took his mobile phone, leather jacket, shoes and the wallet containing Rs 1,000 in cash, credit and debit cards, besides his official identity card. They also made him divulge passwords of the credit and debit cards , and withdrew Rs 22,000 in cash. 
 
 They also did shopping at departmental stores in Delhi using the cards. Ansari’s ordeal went on for almost two hours and he was dumped in Loni area around 12am.
 
 “I immediately dialled the police control number and informed them about the loot. The police came and took me to Lal Bagh police chowki, where I gave a written complaint. However, I was not given any acknowledgement letter. Instead, I was told to approach the Delhi Police as the money was withdrawn from ATMs in Delhi. But when I did that, I was told to approach the police station under whose jurisdictional area I took the cab. Subsequently, I approached Sahibabad police, but they also did not register my complaint,” Ansari said. 
 
 Seeing no respite, he lodged a written complaint with the SSP office on February 22, but even after over 10 days, he is yet to get any reply.
 
 An officer posted at SSP office said they have received a complaint and are looking into the matter.
 
 
