BHUBANESWAR: With parties from Andhra Pradesh -   and   - moving a   against the   at the Centre, the focus in the state is on the stand Naveen Patnaik-led BJD takes in Lok Sabha. 

 Bhartruhari Mahtab, BJD's parliamentary party leader, on Friday said they are still deliberating on the issue. "Let the motion be allowed by the Speaker. We will take a decision on the floor of the House," Mahtab told TOI. He added that the party would take into account the interests of the people of Odisha. BJD has 20 members in Lok Sabha.
 
 Given that the   dispensation has been demanding special category status for Odisha for some years now, the issue would come into play when the BJD takes a call on the motion, which comes in the backdrop of the Centre's refusal to grant special category status to Andhra that led to the no-trust move in the first case. 
 
 Sources in the BJD said the party leadership wants its MPs to 'abstain' from the motion, while the parliamentary party has suggested that it should take part in it and highlight Odisha's issues and its long-standing demand for special category status. 
 
 "To be frank, there is utter confusion. Most MPs feel they should take part in the discussions and put forth the state's genuine demand for a special category status. They would also like to justify the state's stand, a chance that they may stand to lose in case the party decides to abstain," a senior BJD leader said.
 
 Responding to media query in Bhubaneswar, food supplies and consumer welfare minister Surya Narayan Patro said the chief minister will take a final call on the party's stand at an appropriate time.
 
 The BJD, which has supported several policy initiatives of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led-government - from GST to demonetization - has of late been positioning itself strongly against the BJP. This assumes significance amid the saffron outfit's emergence as the main rival to the ruling party. It must be mentioned that recently Naveen had said that the BJP is sinking fast.
 
 
