NEW DELHI : Apart from connecting Noida to south Delhi and witnessing the first operation of ‘driverless’ trains, Delhi Metro’s   will earn another distinction. The Botanical Garden-Janakpuri West corridor is also going to be one of the most ‘green’ corridors of the   network.

 The first section of the Magenta Line between Botanical Garden in Noida and   Mandir in south Delhi was opened to public on December 25, 2017. The rest of the corridor, between Kalkaji Mandir and Janakpuri West is scheduled to be completed by March.
 
 Apart from providing connectivity and state-of-the-art trains and signalling technology in the corridor, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has also gone the extra mile to make it one of its most green corridors. DMRC has planned extensive landscaping around many stations on the corridor, such as Janakpuri West interchange station, where a large section would be kept as open green area with trees.
 
 Going beyond its stations, DMRC is also revamping parks near the corridor to make them vibrant public spaces.
 
 For constructing the underground stations at Janakpuri West and Dabri Mor station, parks located at C-2 Block and Narang Colony were taken over by DMRC. The corporation will now not only restore the park, but beautify and equip them with facilities such as open gym, badminton courts, exclusive kid’s play area, amphitheater, jogging tracks, gazebos, etc, before handing them back to the residents.
 
 “The work will be done in various stages. Firstly, it would require cleaning out of the construction debris (bricks, concrete lumps etc) from the planting locations, replacing the top soil with good earth for plantation. Then, extensive trenching, excavation, ploughing, digging holes, supplying, mixing and spreading good earth, manure, sludge, fertilizers, insecticides and pesticides etc. would be implemented,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC.
 
 “After the construction work of the park is completed, landscaping and horticulture work will follow. This includes electrification and adequate lighting throughout with high masts, construction of efficient drainage system, footpath and bollard lighting along with the jogging track, etc,” said Dayal. “The tenders for the work have already been floated and the restoration of the parks will be completed in two months after the award of the contract,” he added.
 
 
