Tirupur: A pilgrims-welfare group has urged the state government to take action against Madurai TNSTC bus authorities responsible for an accident that claimed six pilgrims on December 26. 

 The members of the group submitted a petition to the Tirpur collector terming the government’s relief for the families of the accident victims were totally inadequate. 
 
 A police investigation into the accident revealed that work overload of the TNSTC bus driver was one of the reasons for the accident. 
 
 The six pilgrims, including four women who were all from Tirupur, were mowed down by the state-run bus when they were on the pilgrimage to Palani temple. Except a woman, the other five pilgrims, who were all on foot, died on the spot around 5am on December 26, 2017. The bus was plying between Madurai and Tirupur, and the incident happened when it was on the return journey. The Dharapuram police had registered the case.
 
 The police investigations found that the driver of the bus, which was belonged to Dindigul depot, was put on heavy duty as he had to steer the wheels with only two hours of resting time. Moreover, it was also revealed that the vehicle’s headlight was not properly working, said the police sources.
 
 “While the bus driver was booked in the case, the government has not bothered to take action against the Madurai Tnstc division authorities who were responsible for heavy workload,” said Sangeetha, a daughter of one of the victims.
 
 Irrespective of what exactly led to the accident, Tnstc trade unions have echoed that the heavy workload was one of major three reasons behind the accidents which were involved by Tnstc buses.
 
 “It was mandatory that there should be four hours resting time to the bus drivers after every eight hours of the duty. But many drivers and conductors were forced to work even up to 22 hours continuously,” said R Vasudevan, General Secretary of Arasu Pokkuvarathu Madurai Thozhilalar Sangam.
 
 The other demands of the pilgrim welfare group were that the government should provide relief of at least Rs 25 lakh per family of the victims. “Many children have lost either their mothers or fathers, even an elderly couple lost their beloved son. The government should consider it as a special case and provide the adequate relief,” said the petitioners.
 
 “Since the pilgrims who go on Pada yatra to Palani temple were increased, the government should lay separate pedestrian paths on the roads like Tirupur-Dharapuram-Palani roads,” they added.
 
 
