CHANDIGARH : With Punjab finally deciding to review its mining policy, the state can take a cue from stringent steps taken by other states to check   and thereby add more revenue to its exchequer. According to rough estimates, the mining trade is worth Rs 3,000-crore but the state has only been able to generate Rs 450 crore so far.

 To begin with, the activity can be checked by impounding trucks wherever mining is done without permit. This seems to have worked in neighbouring  . “There is already a proposal that since the equipment used for illegal mining is released by the lower courts soon after its confiscation, the department of home affairs and justice can set up special courts for the speedy trial of offences for contravention of the legal provisions and guidelines on mining,” said an official.
 
 Local bodies minister  , who is also a member of the cabinet sub committee to suggest changes in the mining policy, has already pointed out that the government contactors of sand quarries too need to be checked for illegal practices and this can be done by cross checking the prescribed weight of sand carried by a tipper against what is actually loaded in the vehicles.
 
 According to information, there have been complaints that there is virtually no check on the quantum of the sand miners are extracting, and despite a ban, there is rampant use of heavy machinery by the successful bidders of mines. The state could also consider imposing electricity charges on crushers, which would also help the state, generate more revenue.
 
 Apart from the need for changes in the policy, there is also the issue of alleged lax enforcement. For instance, as per existing policy, the contractor should allow the government employee near the weight machine so that he may check the register that records weight measured by the contractor. Also, the excavation in rivers can be carried out to a maximum depth of 3 meters or to the water table, whichever is at a lesser depth, said the official.
 
 Soon after taking over the reins last year, the Congress government had announced that it would launch a crackdown on illegal mining to bring down prices of sand and gravel. Chief minister   had also given directions to formulate a transparent mining policy.
 
 
