GURUGRAM:   Madhu Azad has no   in Gurugram as there are very few government accommodations in the city, according to the administration and other authorities. 

  Act 1994-36 (3) clearly says that “the mayor shall be entitled to the payment of such honorarium and may be given such facilities in respect of residential accommodation, telephone, conveyance and the like as may be prescribed.” However, it seems no one is paying heed to it.
 
 The district administration has failed to allot houses to any of the city’s mayors since the seat was created in 2011. MCG was formed in 2008 to meet the growing needs for a formal civic structure in Gurugram. The city’s first mayor, Vimal Yadav, took charge three years later in 2011 and discharged the duties of a mayor till 2017. 
 
 He, too, had fought for an official residence but in vain.
 
 Expressing her dismay, Azad said, “Why am I not being allotted any accommodation? Everyone in the city such as deputy commissioner, police commissioner and other officers have government residences. So, why am I being denied this facility?”
 
 The mayor wrote to the deputy commissioner (DC) on December 15, 2017, seeking an accommodation for herself. 
 
 “The problem should be looked into seriously. I am the first citizen of this city and yet I don’t have any official residence. If this is happening to me, imagine the state of the common man. With no official residence, I am faced with the issue of how to work for people on a daily basis. Every day, so many people come to meet me with their general complaints and I am forced to meet them outside my own house,” said Azad.
 
 The DC has not responded to the letter yet. DC Vinay Pratap Singh said, “There is a scarcity of official residences in the city. We cannot provide houses to everyone.”
 
  Meanwhile, the mayor’s counterpart in Faridabad, Suman Bala, has got an official house there. 
 
 At present, Azad is residing in her own house located at 503/6 Manohar Bhawan, Jacobpura. “I live in my family house. It’s right in the middle of the local bazaar. I have written to everyone, even the MCG commissioner, on the issue but no response has come from their side,” said Azad.
 
 
