In what seemed like a first for him,   cm   donned the hat of an interviewer as he interacted with   at The Happy Cities Summit held in   recently. From picking the guru’s brains on the secret to happiness to getting gyan on fixing modern day niggles, and even playing moderator as he fielded questions from the audience, the CM tried to juggle it all. And in the process, he walked away with a mantra for building a happy  .

 
 This aspiration to build a city of joy is inspiring. As we all know, happiness or joy is something that happens within a human being. For anything to bloom, be it a flower, a bird, an animal or a human being, you need a conducive environment. But fundamentally, human experience is generated from within. To determine what kind of experience we should be right now, is our prerogative. But for most humans, unfortunately, their surroundings have an impact on how they feel. 
 
 For a human being to be happy there are two fundamentals — chemistry and geometry. All human experiences have a chemical basis to it. What you call joy, sorrow, agony, ecstacy, love, hate, anger, bliss — all of these have a chemical basis. In other words, who you are is a chemical soup. A very complex chemical soup. The question is are you a great soup or a lousy soup. So, how to create a chemistry of our own?
 Outside situations, no matter how you envision it, be it at home, in the city, in the country, won’t happen how you want it to a 100 per cent. But what happens within you can be controlled a 100 per cent by you. So creating this chemistry, where one is simply joyful by one’s own nature, is what we need to do. If you had a choice to choose between being joyful or miserable, what would you choose? Obviously joyful, right? That means you want to be in a pleasant state. Unless you are in a pleasant state of experience, nothing in the body or mind can function to its best — there is empirical medical and scientific evidence to prove that today. 
 
 Now, to manage our chemistry, there is something called ‘geometry of life’. Everything physical in the universe has a form; form means, if it is geometrically in a conducive state then it will naturally be at ease, if it’s not conducive geometrically, it will naturally be under stress. People in this culture were always taught that if you eat, you must sit a certain way; if you pray, you sit a certain way, to study, you must be a 
 certain way. Today, we’ve simply forgotten all this. So, since we are talking about aspiring to build the happiest city, it is very important that the geometry of the spaces are supportive to the nature of the human being. A lot of care was taken when we built our ancient cities. Today, everything is being built for convenience. But you see, there are structures or cities that can be built purely for utilitarian purposes, some purely for aesthetics, some for creating a certain ambience of experience — there are all these dimensions. A city should take these into consideration because people will not be fulfiled just by survival or just by economic activity. The air that you breathe, the earth that you walk upon, the water that you drink, if you don’t learn how to relate to these things, they will not relate to you well. These five basic elements which make our system and our city and our nation and our world, if we don’t treat them well, they don’t treat us well. 
  
 So a city should take this into consideration. I’m happy to see 30 per cent of Amaravati demarcated as blue-green space; that is fine. But still, creating that culture of engagement with all the ingredients which make our life, is needed. 
 It’s very important that if not the entire city, we at least create spaces where people are inevitably guided to get engaged with everything that they are in touch with; all the ingredients that make our life.
 
 
 See, when we say development, we are talking about making human life better! ‘Development’ need not necessarily mean ‘more’. you know this very well — 30-40 years ago in this country, when we spoke money we meant a ‘lakhpati’. that means somebody who has one lakh rupees is a big man. Then 10-20 years ago we started talking about crorepati — one who has hundred lakhs is a big man. Today if you talk anything less than thousand crores, you are no good. So, by enlarging the numbers, nothing is happening to life as such. we’re just multiplying things in our mind and thinking we have become big. This is like, you have one chair to sit, you can only sit on one chair. But if you put two mirrors on either side, this will multiply into a hundred chairs and you can believe that you have a hundred chairs but actually there is only one chair. What is on this planet, is there. there is nothing more, nothing less. The question is only, how we use it. Are we using it for our well-being. And when we say our well-being, does it include the well-being of the next and the next generations to come or are we the last generation on this planet? 
 
 Right now, we think ‘what I have accumulated determines how big I am’. if that is so, what it actually means is ‘I enjoy what you don’t have’. If I’ve eaten well and you have not eaten, I enjoy this. tell me is this happiness or sickness? If this sickness is taken away from a society, a whole lot of things will be fixed. Talking of development and values, one important thing that people who dwell in the cities must be made to understand is that it is our city and it’s our responsibility. somebody may build something beautiful, but are we going to keep it that way is a big question mark always. And no administration can keep it clean if the people are not committed to keeping it clean.One big challenge for the ideal city that we are trying to build will be the influx of population. So simultaneously urbanising rural India is very, very important. If you don’t, urban centers in India will not succeed because the influx of people will be so heavy! 
 
 Today, just to watch a movie, people from the villages are going to the city and never coming back. the youth don’t want to stay in villages, because there is no theatre, there is no sport, there is no kind of entertainment. Sports complexes, theatre complexes and shopping complexes, whatever is needed for a village has to be created, because this is driving the migration big time. these must happen in villages quickly. Otherwise, even if you create great cities, you’ll have stragglers all over the streets.
 
 
 That is in the hands of industry. if the government provides the necessary infrastructure in the villages, a variety of production centers can be taken into the villages. This can easily be done for a large number of industries. production can be in the village, or at least parts can happen there, assembly can happen elsewhere. Exploring these possibilities is very important. without economic activity there is no way anything is going to succeed. And economic activity means we must understand, both the parties benefit, that’s all the deal is. Whether it’s a marketplace or marriage, it’s very important for both the parties to benefit, only then it’s sustainable. If government goes on building, and people go on benefiting, that’s not going to work. It must be a two way process, there must be revenue out of it, only then it is sustainable.
 
 
 When you say ‘happiness’ you are talking about pleasantness of experience. We can put it this way. See, if our body is pleasant, we call this health, if it becomes very pleasant we call it pleasure. If our mind is pleasant, we call this peace. If it becomes very pleasant, we call it joy. If our emotions are pleasant, we call this love. If this becomes very pleasant, we call it compassion. If our very life energies become pleasant, we call this blissfulness. If it becomes very pleasant, we call it ecstasy. If our surroundings become pleasant, we call this success. So, the city is our surrounding; that is our success. But body being pleasant, mind being pleasant, emotions being pleasant and our very life energies being pleasant is very, very important. If we do not invest on that we can have a wonderful city and still we may not be wonderful people. It’s simple. This (referring to oneself) is a chemical soup and there is a technology to make sure that this is a wonderful soup; and if this one is feeling wonderful, naturally it will do wonderful things around. 
  
 
