NAGPUR: The Patanjali Food Park in   is finally taking off after a long wait. According to Patanjali officials, the first units of the 234-acre food park in   area will be commissioned in July this year and the first of the three plants will become fully operational in December. Work on food park in SEZ area and a third plant of ayurvedic products in non-SEZ area will start very soon. The first unit will process oranges.

 After taking over the food park land, the company had announced it will provide direct jobs to 10,000 people when all the three plants become functional. The first plant is expected to generate direct employment for 2,000 by December, said Patanjali officials.
 
 TOI visited the food park on Wednesday to find machinery worth hundreds of crores kept in the non-SEZ food park. The basic frame of the first plant made up of PEB (pre-erected building) has been erected. Sheets will be fixed on this structure to create walls of the plant. About 80% of the civil work will be completed by June.
 
 Sunil Gupta, senior general manager of Patanjali, said that about 85% of the machinery has been procured. “The remaining machinery will be purchased when we are about to commission the plant. A large percentage of this machinery has been imported,” he told TOI. Gupta further said that the company was investing Rs1,200 crore in the non-SEZ food park. “This includes civil work, machinery, land cost, etc,” he added.
 
 According to the official, Patanjali will manufacture a large number of products in the food park for domestic market. “They include fruit juice, Indian gooseberry (aonla) candy, murabba (pickle), digestive tablets, hops, wheat flour, biscuits, ayurvedic juices, jams, ketchups and sharbats,” he told TOI.
 
 Commenting on the capacity of the plant, he said, “We will use 800 tonne oranges a day, 600 tonne of Indian gooseberry and 400 tonne of other fruits and vegetables like tomato, mango, bottle gourd (lauki), bitter gourd (karela), etc, each.”
 
 The plant will be zero waste factory. Fruits and vegetables will be utilized 100%. “Value added products will be made from the waste and rest will be fed to the boiler. For example we will make cosmetics and green tea from orange peel. We will also manufacture orange oil. The pomace will be fed to the boiler,” Gupta said.
 
 The plant will also have zero liquid discharge. “We will recycle the whole water we use. Costly machinery has been purchased for this purpose,” the senior GM further said.
 
  of the food park was performed in September 2016 and production was expected to start in six months. The project was delayed due to a variety of reasons.
 
 
