NAVI MUMBAI: Despite installing over 282 CCTV cameras to monitor the city roads and junctions and a total of 22 Cameras at both the entry points i.e. the   toll plaza as well as the Airoli toll plaza, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation ( ) has not been able to make much of a headway into the repeated dumping of debris in the city. Resident are left pondering on the purpose of the round-the-clock CCTV surveillance.

 Even Police maintains that if civic officials monitor the CCTV footage at the CCTV command centre, it can put an end to the  . “If the NMMC has installed so many CCTVs why are they unable to catch the culprits? All that is required is co-ordination and someone to monitor the footage. Also the officials must be instructed to impose strict sections pertaining to Unlawful Activities (Prevention) ACT, Damage to Public Property Act, National Bio diversity Act as well as Environment Protection ACT upon the offenders to prevent getting bail from High Court. If few are subjected to the legal hassles, I am sure no one will dare to dump debris in the city,” said social activist Anarjit Chauhan.
 
 Sharing a similar view point is Nerul-based environmentalist Sunil Agarwal. He is one of the many who has been actively voicing their concern on the debris mafia. “If both NMMC and police desires then this menace can be easily addressed because   is not happening in clandestine. In fact just few days back a friend of mine witnessed over 15 dumpers reclaiming land to build truck terminal in sector 15 of Belapur which is a prime residential area. So it’s just not NMMC even the police department can be questioned for failing to catch hold of the vehicles that are plying within the city,” said Agarwal.
 
 As per the police,   the CCTV command centre of the areas prone to debris dumping could bring about the desired effect. “On various occasions it has been conveyed to NMMC to assign their designated officers to go through the CCTV footage of the areas wherein debris dumping is rampant. It will enable us to locate the vehicle and take appropriate action,” ACP Pradeep Kannalu.
 
 When contacted the Municipal Commissioner Dr Ramaswami N, stated of conducting a joint meeting with all the stakeholders to work out a plan of action with focus on making use of the CCTVs as well. “I have given thought of restricting the movement of debris laden vehicle right at the entrance itself and CCTVs too will be monitored by officials for debris dumping happening internally,” he said.
 
 
