 never fails to smile when someone recognises her in a crowd. She is a people’s person, who doesn’t let fame come in the way of interacting with others. Popular for her television stints as an actress and anchor, the 30-year-old had also made her mark in the big screen through films such as 10 Kalpanakal. Draped in a cotton silk sari with untied hair, she reflects the look in her current serial,  , which is directed by KK Rajeev and is aired on Surya TV. An elated Kavitha talks about her acting journey, her latest role and more.

 
 
 
 The journey began with a morning show, Ponpulari that aired on Surya TV in 2002. I was an active in skits and mime during my school days, and I was always interested in acting. I still remember the round of applause I received for my first role as a 45-year-old lady in a skit during a school youth fest that actually motivated me to pursue acting.
 
 I could memorise things quickly and that helped me in my first television show. Though I was a teenager, I wore saris and narrated serious topics on the show which is usually presented by people who are much older. The show scored well and I got recognised too.
 
 That paved the way for more anchoring gigs and television shows; I also did special interviews of film actors for various TV channels. I also did some roles in television serials. I still get positive responses for my character Priyamvada IPS from Rahasyam. The serial aired on Asianet on 2008 made me explore my acting skills as a bold police officer.
 
 
 
 
 Having completed more than a decade in the TV industry, I feel satisfied. It’s true that I have not maintained a regular momentum in acting. But I am satisfied with the small and big roles that I have received till date, be it in TV or movies. I am not an organised actor and don’t chase roles. I take up projects that come to me, as I believe that if some character is meant for me it will find its way. I am a spontaneous actor and am not keen in attending rehearsals. I’d rather get into the skin of my character naturally rather than practising for it.
 
 
 
 
 I co-anchored the show Manimelam, which aired on Kairali TV, with Mani chettan. Working with him made me understand him better. He was a workaholic and in between the show, he used to talk to his family, do charity and at times even goes out of his way to talk to the people who come to seek his help. He was a great soul who utilised his time and energy to help the needy. I feel blessed to have worked with him.
 
 
 
 
 When KK Rajeev contacted me to play Kavya Lekshmi in Ayalathe Sundari, the first question he asked me was, “Can you play the role of a mother of two teenage girls?” When he told me more about the role, I thought I could explore my acting skills with the character. Kavya is 36 years old and her elder daughter is a speech-impaired 18-year-old. She has a bad past where she was cheated. She suffered a lot in her life and is a feeble woman. But her daughters are brave and strong. Kavya is evolving in her personality watching her bold daughters.
 
 The woman breaks all societal conventions about how to react to a situation. She has her flaws but has her reasons for it. Kavya has been receiving mixed response as some of the audience aren’t happy with the way she reacts and behaves in sensitive situations. The role is not dramatic. I give life to a real woman who has positive and negatives in her life.
 
 Portraying her onscreen was an acting school for me. The most challenging scene for me was to act the scene where her husband tells her that the daughters are not his. I was tense as Kavya is getting to know the truth only after 18 years of her marriage to husband Sethu Madhavan, played by Yedu Krishnan. Kavya never apologises to Sethu for that. Her response was to go numb and say nothing. I had to convey that emotion through my face for the whole episode. I had sleepless nights before we shot those scenes as I was moved by her state of mind. Kavya is perplexed thinking who cheated her more by not letting her know the truth – her husband or her parents. So, I had put all my efforts to showcase her mental anxiety and struggle. 
 
 People will not understand Kavya unless they have faced those unforeseen situations in their lives or of their dear ones. The audience, through social media messages and in person, conveys their concern for Kavya as well as criticise also; both make me happy. 
 
 
 
 
 The serial is sort of like holding a mirror to yourself to see the women near you. All the female roles in the serial are ‘ayalathe sundarimaar’ and they all have their own stories. The serial is a portrayal of realistic incidents that are happening around us. Kavya, who was cheated in her life, is learning to fight back and save her family. Her daughters are bold in their lives as they bravely complained to the police about the hooligans who tried to torment them. There is this message that girls are not the weak ones anymore.
 
 In a way Kavya can be termed a feminist. In my opinion, feminist is one who fights for her rights and needs, and also takes care of the people around her. I also got to learn more things in my life through Kavya.
 
 
 
 I had missed several film projects because of Ayalathe Sundari. But playing Kavya gives me a satisfaction of acting in 10 films. At present I have only committed this serial as I want to focus entirely on it. I had published a book Sundara Padanangal earlier. I wish to try my hand on scripting also but to write I need to be emotional imbalanced (laughs).
 
