Kartikey Mishra, 22, spent Rs 100 every morning getting from the metro station to his office until a friend introduced him to bicyclesharing app Mobycy. For a month, he has been paying Rs 10 a day, and cycles that last short stretch, saving both money and time.

 
 “I’d take a cab or auto and get stuck in traffic. With a bicycle, my commute from the metro station is faster and easier,” said Mishra, who works with a tech company in Gurugram. It’s in this last-mile connectivity gap that bicycle-sharing startups see a huge opportunity in India.
 
 
 Indian roads may be unsafe for cyclists but in the past year, a number of global and homegrown players have entered or announced plans for cycle-sharing businesses — from Chinese majors Ofo and Mobike to Gurugram-based Mobycy and Bengaluru’s Yulu and Zoomcar. They’re betting on infrastructure being put in place once demand is created for their services.
 
 
 “No country had the infrastructure when cycle-sharing started, neither China nor the US. The infrastructure will come up once more cyclists are seen on the roads,” says Greg Moran, co-founder and CEO of car hire startup Zoomcar, which launched  , its cycle-sharing service, in Bengaluru last October. It has since expanded its service to parts of Pune, Chennai, Kolkata and Mumbai. The company says it has seen 14,000 transactions and is growing 50% month-on-month.
 
 
 Of the 10 bicycle-sharing startups operating in the country, only Mobycy — founded last August — and Yulu have venture capital funding. Mobycy’s dockless bike-sharing platform, where the bike can be booked and picked up using an app, has raised $500,000 in funding, while Yulu, which was also launched late last year, has an undisclosed sum. Mobycy says it does 2,000 rides a day and has 700 bicycles in 15 cities.
 
 
 Chinese cycle-sharing startup Mobike, which is present in 200 cities in 12 countries, is making plans to launch in India and will soon raise funds for investment in assets. “There is a demand for improved solutions for urban mobility, and bicycle sharing fits right in,” says Vibhor Jain, CEO, Mobike.
 
 
 These startups aim to help commuters cover the short distance between metro stations, bus stops, homes and offices. Commuters currently have to take expensive cabs or crowded, unsafe share autos. “We are offering an alternative service that’s cheaper and more efficient,” says Jain.
 
 
 
 
 Some are finding customers in small areas such as college campuses. Ola, for instance, is piloting its cycle-sharing platform, Ola Pedal, in IIT-Kanpur. Zoomcar’s PEDL is available in residential areas in Gurugram, while Mobycy has its services in multiple campuses across the country. “There is a latent demand in colleges and universities. Academic blocks are about 1km away from hostels. Bicycle sharing is the best option,” says Akash  , founder and CEO, Mobycy.
 
 
 Big data and artificial intelligence help startups predict demand and manage supply so that cycles are available at the right place and time — a major factor for success — but it’s feet on the ground that will keep operations running. “The on-ground operation teams are extremely important because they help in deployment of bicycles as well as maintain them,” said Zoomcar’s Moran.
 
 
 Industry observers say the cycling space will see some failures before success stories emerge. “Lack of infrastructure and safety is a major pain point,” says KP   of Chennai-based Cycos. “Making the cycles available at specific points is not an easy job. The operational cost is huge,” says Krishnan. Whether these players manage to figure out the right business model for India remains to be seen.
 
 
 India’s muggy weather is another deterrent to cycling but the startups don’t seem fazed. Mobycy’s Gupta says their average user rides for 10 to 20 minutes, “hardly a time to worry about the weather”. Jain of Mobike acknowledges that ridership could be affected for three to four months a year when the weather is very hot but “a commuter could stand in the sun and wait for an auto, or cycle. The trend we have seen is that people would rather take the cycle and move instead of waiting in the heat”. Plus, says Moran of PEDL, commuters have few other options and cycling is about 60% cheaper than other modes of transport.
 
 
 Sarika Panda, who heads public bike sharing systems at the non-profit, WRI India, says the launch of cycle-sharing systems and the development of infrastructure have to go hand in hand. “While private players can set up bicycle-sharing systems, it is important that cycle tracks are laid,” says Panda.
 
 
 The startups say they are working with city corporations and local police to develop cycle tracks, raise awareness about road safety, and conduct surveys on urban mobility and consumer needs. “Either we wait for infrastructure to come up or make people start riding and push the government to build the required infrastructure,” says Gupta of Mobycy. “We’ve taken the latter approach.”
 
 
 Rajarshi Rakesh Sahai, director, public policy, government relations and communications, Ofo, told TOI: “This is a chicken-and-egg situation: There isn’t enough infrastructure so people don’t cycle, since there aren’t many cyclists, the need for infrastructure doesn’t arise. Our way forward is to create awareness. If we show enough demand and demonstrate use cases, we can break the barrier.” Ofo, which is in 250 cities in 20 countries, launched its pilot service in seven Indian cities in January.
 
 
 Moran agrees with Sahai and says, “It would be not appropriate to underestimate the size of this business opportunity just because of the poor infrastructure.”
 
 (with inputs from Ranjani Ayyar)
 
