Apart from being the birth anniversary of  , January 23 is also special for another reason. It was on this date in 2004 that the   allowed the ordinary citizens of India to hoist the national flag, recognising it as a right. To commemorate this occasion, the  , headed by Shalu and  , hosted a get together on January 23 in Delhi.

  
  Lt Gen (retd) AK Singh
 Maj Gen Bipin Bakshi, Inspector General, NSG and Sunil Jogi
 
 
 The evening was a mix of bonhomie and patriotism. Poet and writer Sunil Jogi recited a few lines from a poem he wrote about the tricolour. His poem Tiranga Bol Utha described what each of the three colours of the flag want to say to the nation.
 
 Some of the guests shared moments from their lives when they recognised the significance of the tricolour in their lives. Shooter Mairaj Ahmad Khan said, “For a sportsperson, there is no greater feeling than when you are on the podium and the tricolour is unfurled. That’s an emotional moment. For every sportsperson, the tricolour has always been the symbol we represent overseas.” 
 
  
  Ravi Uppal, former MD, Jindal Steel and Vivek Ankha, Rajya Sabha MP (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 Maj Gen Bipin Bakshi, IG, National Security Guard, added, “Every year, personnel from various paramilitary and state security forces come to the NSG for training. They are divided by language and uniforms, but for all them, the one unifying factor is the national flag. And so, it is for the rest of the country. Our flag is our biggest unifying factor.”
 
 Talking about the significance of the day, Naveen said, “It’s a proud day for all of us because this is the day when the honourable Supreme Court recognised our right to hoist the national flag, which is why we observe it as Flag Day every year. Every country has an official National Flag Day. India has an Armed Forces Flag Day but no day for the tricolour, so this is a day as good as any.”
 
  
  Naveen and Shalu Jindal
 
 
 
  
  (L-R) Shooters Morad Ali Khan and Mairaj Ahmad Khan
 
 
  
  Prof C Rajkumar, VC, OP Jindal Global University
 
 
  
 
 
