 (BARMER): In a bid to make the locals a stakeholder in the refinery, options are being explored to set up a campus of the Rajasthan Institute of Leadership Development University commonly known as skills university in   which will specialise in oil, gas and petrochemical training.

 Besides, the governmentrun polytechnic college in Jodhpur is also like to add subjects related to petroleum and gas not only to meet human resource needs of the refinery and petrochemical complex but also provide the local youths an opportunity to find employment in the project.
 
 “We are working on a plan to open a campus of the Rajasthan skills university in Barmer where the local people can get training to find employment opportunities in the refinery and the petrochemical complex. We will start the courses from the academic year 2018-2019,” said Union oil and gas minister   at a separate press conference here on Tuesday without giving details of the initiative.
 
 In a similar vein, chief minister   in her speech said that new streams related to oil and gas will be introduced in the polytechnic institute in Jodhpur which will benefit the local populace here and make them part of the project.
 
 There is resentment among the local people who feel that the project is another   in the air and there is nothing for them.
 
 The announcement of training local youths is aimed at pacifying them.
 
 “Announcements are not a new thing. People now want action on the ground. Until the government delivers that the people will not buy any promise,” said B D Charan, a local.
 
 The kaharwal community in Pachpadra is a disappointed lot whose salt pits will disappear once the refinery comes. They want substantial compensation for surrendering their land which they are not getting now.
 
 “Because of the saline content in the soil, agriculture is not a lucrative occupation here. These locals want good compensation for their land. But if the government can provide training and get them engaged in any income generating activities in the project, that will go a long way in providing justice to them. But as of today, it’s allannouncements,” said another local.
 
