NAVI MUMBAI: Local residents and motorists are complaining of poor visibility along the busy MIDC main road that connects Old   at Navade phata with   industrial area and further to Kalyan due to defunct streetlights. 

 Residents are facing additional problems in the form of traffic rush with the diversion of heavy vehicles due to shutting of   bypass since Monday. Most of the vehicles have started plying on this route, adding to the risk of mishaps due to absence of adequate streetlights.
 
 In fact, most of newly installed LED lights appear quite dim whereas several remained non-functional.
 
  “Along the five km stretch, most of the streetlights are defunct and authorities are least bothered about its maintenance for the past few days. It’s been a nightmare for motorists nowadays who suffer excruciatingly while riding past along this patch,” said a company executive, Srinivas Shetty.
 
 Many locals believe that the expensive streetlights are of no use when they failed to serve the purpose of illuminating the crucial MIDC main road on which several thousands of vehicles ply on daily basis. 
 
 “Adding to our woes is the additional flow of heavy vehicles diverted from Mumbra bypass. In the absence of streetlights the drive on this road becomes risky,” said a local resident Munir Singh.
 
 This road has become a deadly spot for motorists and pedestrians as well. 
 
 “Due to dysfunctional streetlights the visibility seems poor and driving along this stretch becomes risky. And the density of vehicular flow has increased over the last few days,’ said Wavanje resident Mustaq Khan. 
 
 MIDC assistant engineer Avinash Khadkikar said, “I have not come across such a situation. However, I will check this and rectify the problem.” 
 
 Motorists feel scared to drive on this road under the cover of darkness. “It has become a nightmarish experience to walk along the road,” said another resident Manohar Gore. 
 
 Prasanna Kumar, assistant engineer (Electrical and Maintenance), MIDC said, “There may be some technical problem in the connection. Our maintenance team has been informed of the problem and by Monday we will solve the issue.”
 
 Along the five km stretch, most of the streetlights are defunct and authorities are least bothered about its maintenance for the past few days. It’s been a nightmare for motorists to drive past this particular area without the aid of streetlights 
 
 
