MOHALI: The police on Sunday claimed to have arrested two more members of the gang of car robbers that was busted on February 8.

 Police said that one of them was driving a snatched Toyota   and the other had come to meet an agent to flee abroad.
 
  
  
 
 The two have been identified as Ranjit, 23, a resident of  , and Dilawar, 23, a resident of Sirsa. According to inspector Pawan  , the investigating officer, Ranjit, was arrested from the airport road when he had come to meet an agent to pay fee for sending him abroad.   was one of the gang members who executed the Toyota Fortuner snatching at gunpoint from Dhakoli in Zirakpur recently.
 
 Kumar said, “We have arrested another gang member, Dilawar, while he was driving another snatched Toyota Fortuner with a fake registration number from Jagatpura village near Chandigarh. Dilawar confessed to have snatched the SUV at gunpoint from Panchkula.”
 
 Ranjit had fled to his native village after Dhakoli episode and returned just a day before, police said.
 
 A local court sent the two accused in police custody for two days.
 
 On February 8, police had arrested three gang members, Ajay Pal Singh, 21, of Moosewala village, near Moga, Harsimran Singh, 24, and Arshdeep Singh, 23, both from Ferozepur, from a Phase VII house. They were arrested five days after unidentified men took away the Toyota Fortuner of a Sector 43 resident from Westwood Resort, Kathgarh village, Dhakoli, after threatening the driver at gunpoint.
 
 Police said Dilawar has confessed to have snatched the Toyota Fortuner at gunpoint with Ajay, Arshdeep and Ranjit on January 9 from the driver of a restaurant owner in main market of Sector 9, Panchkula. The driver was kidnapped and later dumped at Zirakpur.
 
 Police said apart from Dhakoli, the three have confessed to have snatched four cars and SUVs from the Tricity. Three SUVs are from Panchkula and one from Mullanpur. “We have recovered   Verna snatched from Mullanpur and now Toyota Fortuner from Panchkula. They have also confessed to have snatched another SUV at gunpoint from Ludhiana,” said Kumar.
 
 On October 8 last year, a Toyota Innova SUV was robbed at gunpoint from outside KC Cross hotel in Panchkula. On November 15 last year, a Hyundai Verna car was robbed from outside a gym in Panchkula, and on August 15, a Toyota Fortuner SUV was robbed at gunpoint from the parking area of  , in Jagraon in Ludhiana. After robbing the cars, they used to sell the vehicles in Punjab, Rajasthan and Delhi. “We have formed teams to recover the robbed cars,” police said.
 
 
