TRICHY: It is highly unlikely that many people would have heard about phillumeny, the hobby of collecting match-related items like matchbox labels and matchboxes. Throwing light on the history of matchboxes and their evolution and subsequent association with people, an exhibition touted to be the first of its kind in Tamil Nadu was held at the   in Trichy on Sunday.

 As many as 3,000 matchbox labels were on display. Some of the labels were from 1940s. Phillumenists said that matchbox labels had also served as tool to learn other traditions and global icons for people associated with vernacular culture. Some matchbox labels displayed the bull taming event   that were also sold in other states, thus spreading traditions. The matchbox labels from the pre-independence era would help people learn about the defunct denomination like annas (1/16 rupee) that was in practice till 1950’s. “Matchbox labels had even spread patriotism among people during pre-independence era by displaying the portrait of freedom fighters like  . Safety match producers even made labels on symbols of political parties such as rising sun and hand. Such was the influence of matchbox label,”   added.
 
 Phillumenists in Trichy said that the matchbox labels were equally important to study the vernacular culture. “Till the 1980s, matchbox was a significant product in every household. To attract the attention of users, match producers carried vibrant matchbox covers displaying the portraits of political leaders like former chief minister   (MGR),” said P Vijayakumar, a Trichy-based phillumenist who hosted the exhibition.
 
 Phillumenists said that earlier matchsticks manufacturers used metal boxes as packages since the matchsticks containing white phosphorous were highly flammable if concealed in wooden boxes. Though western countries acknowledge the role of matchbox labels as antique elements to study old cultures, typography and tradition that encourages students to take up the hobby, phillumeny remains an unexplored hobby here, said phillumenists.
 
 
