Chennai: Tamil Nadu BJP wants to give a fresh lease of life to the jinxed Nanguneri special economic zone by setting up defence-related industries at the site. Union minister of state for finance and shipping, Pon Radhakrishnan met defence minister Nirmala Sitaraman in this regard in New Delhi and held discussions.

 The SEZ was announced in 1997 when Murasoli Maran was a Union minister. Since then the project has faced several hiccups. As on date, only a Hyderabad-based firm functions out of Nanguneri SEZ, situated on Madurai-Kanyakumari NH in Tirunelveli district. The government has acquired 2,600 acres for the project. It is administered by Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation Limited (TIDCO).
 
 Tamil Nadu has high potential to manufacture defence equipment as many firms are already engaged in the sector in Chennai, Aravankadu, Kalpakkam, Trichy, Coimbatore and Mahendragiri. They are supplying components for aircraft, ships and tanks, said Radhakrishnan while interacting with reporters in New Delhi. He felt many more industries could come up across the state under the Make in India programme.
 
 “We want Tamil Nadu government to hand over the SEZ to defence ministry at the earliest. I will meet chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami soon and speak to him regarding this,” said Radhakrishnan. He said Nanguneri SEZ had high potential as it was well connected to Tuticorin port and airport.
 
 Sitaraman has offered to consider setting up a testing lab and related infrastructure at the SEZ. She reiterated her earlier idea of forming a defence corridor connecting places manufacturing defence parts in Tamil Nadu and Bengaluru. She said India wanted to stop importing defence equipment. Instead, it was working towards manufacturing defence equipment within the country. The country was also planning to export them, she said.
 
 “As of now many private companies in Tamil Nadu supply parts which go into manufacturing of aircraft by HAL, tanks at Avadi and missiles by DRDO,” said Sitaraman.
 
 Since the manufacturing firms were located across the state, they were dependent on private labs for testing their products, she said. “If all the companies that supply parts to defence ministry are situated in an SEZ, the government can set up labs and provide other infrastructure,” said the defence minister.
 
 A week ago, she had called upon the state government to consider setting up a defence corridor connecting Tamil Nadu and Bengaluru. Nanguneri could also be brought under the corridor, she said.
 
 Nanguneri MLA H Vasanthkumar raised the issue of poor patronage for Nanguneri SEZ in the assembly recently. Responding to Vasanthakumar’s plea, state industries minister M C Sampath said necessary attention would be given to the project. Vasanthakumar said three companies at the SEZ had given up construction of buildings halfway through.
 
 
