Amaravati: The annual report of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India, which was tabled in the Assembly on Friday found fault with the Pachayant Raj Institutions (PRIs) and the Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) of mismanagement of assets and funds. On the report on PRIs and ULBs for 2016-17, the   found that the zilla parishads, mandal parishads and gram panchayats were found that these PRIs were not maintaining the asset registers containing the details such as location of lands, survey number, extent of land, cost of land and other issues.

 Majority of the gram panchayats have no records like Adangal, Resettlement Register, Field Measurement Book to determine the ownership of the property and prevent misuse, the CAG said. Citing some examples, the CAG said that the district Collector of Visakhapatnam had transferred 3.44 acres to zilla parishad in July 2001 to be used for the playground for the high school in Juttada village. However, the transfer records are not available in the statement of assets maintained by the zilla parishad. Similarly, in Guntur district, the premises of the zilla parishad office and the petrol filling station have no records available in the statement of assets maintained by the ZP. 
 
 The CAG also blamed the PRIs for ignoring encroachment or unauthorised use of lands by individuals or private organisations without paying rent or lease amount, which is a loss to the gram panchayat or zilla parishad. The CAG also found fault with some of the PRIs for indulging in wasteful expenditure in the name of development or neglect. The Gram Panchayats remain silent to the private developers for not transferring 207.63 acres of open space from the layouts, which is estimated to cost Rs 60.30 crore. 
 
 The District Town and Country Planning Officers or the District Panchayat Officers were not ensuring the implementation of the Gram Panchayat Land Development Rules 2002 depriving the Gram Panchayats of their 10 per cent land share from every township. With regard to the ULBs, the CAG report found mismanagement of funds under various schemes. Construction of bridges and not providing approach roads, construction of swimming pools and not supplying water, not collecting road cutting charges by the private companies are some of the irregularities found in the urban local bodies, the CAG said. The Guntur Municipal Corporation had constructed a bridge at Ankireddypalem in March 2017 at a cost of Rs 38.05 lakh. But as there was no provision for the laying approach road, the bridge remained unused. In Nandyal municipality, a private agency was given permission for cutting road to an extent of 17,017 meters to lay optical fibre cables but had paid Rs 2.20 crore to the municipality for an extent of 13,260 crore. 
 
 
