New Delhi: A 31-year-old   was shot in the jaw in an incident of road rage at   in outer Delhi on  . 

 Police said the victim, Rajpal, was heading towards his house in Chander Nagar on Friday when he found a car parked in the middle of the road and obstructing traffic at Vikaspuri. He got out of the car and asked the four occupants of the car to move it. At this, the men, who are suspected to have been drunk, opened fire at   and fled. 
 
 Rajpal somehow managed to call up his brother Sompal, who then called up the police around 6.30pm, said a senior police officer. A police team was sent to the spot and Rajpal was taken to a hospital. A case was registered at Nihal Vihar police station.
 
 Additional DCP (outer) Rajender Singh Sagar said they have ruled out the possibility of someone known to the victim being involved in the crime and were looking for the assailants. 
 
 Sompal told TOI that Rajpal had gone to Subhash Nagar to celebrate Holi with his friends and had started to come back around 6pm. “When he got stuck, he stepped out of his Swift to see what was holding up traffic. He saw a Santro parked in the middle and a group of men playing Holi. A few children were also playing on the road, I was told,” Sompal said.
 
 Sompal said his brother had politely asked them to move the car and also asked the children to move aside. But the men were agitated. Angrily, they agreed to move the car. As Rajpal started to walk back towards his car, the men started abusing him. But he ignored them and sat in his car, preparing to leave. 
 
 As he started to drive ahead, his car came adjacent to the Santro. Then one of the men opened fire at him and the Santro sped away. Additional DCP Sagar said they were scanning   footage from the area to find out who the assailants were. 
 
 Meanwhile, doctors at the hospital have said the bullet is still lodged in Rajpal’s jaw and any attempt to remove it might put his life in danger. They would perform a major surgery. He has a wife and two children aged seven and seven months. 
 
 
