By: Nrithya Pillai

 CHENNAI: The   was at one point of time the beacon of arts — host to numerous dancers, musicians, artists and patrons. Temple inscriptions proclaim the great contributions of these   to society — with their art, intellect, donations to building dams and temples.
 
 From the queen of Rajaraja Chola, Panchavanmaadevi, a Talicheri temple woman, to musicians like Bangalore Nagarathnamma who built Thyagaraja’s Samadhi and Padma Vibhushan T Balasaraswati who took Bharatanatyam to the global stage, the tradition boasts of glorious personalities.
 
 So when there was a recent backlash against lyricist Vairamuthu for referring to   as a devadasi, it exposed the gross misconception in society about this tradition. Coming from a hereditary Isai Vellalar family, I feel the stain against devadasis was and is ill-judged.
 
 Why the word is looked down upon today, can only be reasoned with patriarchy and the lack of thought to bring about social reform in the devadasi system. The devadasi system existed in close quarters with royal courts and the temples. It was a religious and ritualistic practice that came with Hinduism. If it was seen as being detrimental to the women who were dedicated to the temple or as a system abused by the male patrons of these women, that the male patrons of these women were abusing the system, shouldn’t it be these men who should have been branded social outlaws? Did the abolishment of the system require the hereditary artists to lose out on their livelihood that depended on their art? 
 
  
  
 
 In reality, the women coming from the tradition were dedicated to the temples as children and put in a place where they had to follow a certain mode of life. It was the male patrons who were sometimes abusers of the system and who have gone unscathed but the term devadasi has come to represent a woman with loose morals. This bigotry of having to prove a woman’s chastity to men in order to be respected is a problematic scenario. It is true that there was a practice of wealthy patrons to marry devadasis as one of their many wives. But these men were not put under the same scanner as the women.
 
 It was with the advent of the British that the community as a whole started to be seen with moral Anglophilic eyes. From being women dedicated to god, they were seen as mere dancers with questionable repute. With the call to abolish the system, in the name of sanitising society, art and livelihood of these women were snatched away. But the abusive men of power went unscathed. That is the problem for me. 
 
 It was not a fight for women’s rights, as it was made out to be. Many women didn’t want to let go of their art but were forced to, like Bangalore Nagarathnamma assimilated numerous signatures from the devadasi women against the Devadasi Act that was supported by Dr Muthulakshmi Reddy. 
 
 The recent derogatory discussions against the devadasis have proven further that we as a society have let down an entire community of women. And the arts scenario now, devoid of many artists from the hereditary background barring a few like me, is rampant with cases of nepotism and abuse. These are the issues that require immediate attention. 
 
 I, as an educated woman who also happens to be from the community that had devadasis in the past don’t see what happened to them as fair. I don’t deem the present treatment of these women as fair either. Personally I still feel the challenges of belonging to the community and taking up art as a full-time profession. 
 
 As for the Prevention of Dedication and Devadasi Abolishment Act, the situation needed a better solution where the perpetrators of the system needed to be punished. Or society needed to have taken the blame for promoting a system that allowed the abuse of women. Staunch Hindus who are putting down devadasis and speak ill of them using this term as an abuse need to think it over. And thinkers who see these women as victims who have been saved need to introspect why they have been branded as women of questionable character. Why were women not allowed to choose a life of their own. The women could have been provided safe havens to sing, dance, be artistic and continue with their lives. May be then, devadasi wouldn’t have been a term for a woman who has sinned.
 
 (The author is a dancer and teacher from Vazhuvoor lineage)
 
 
