MEERUT: Girls outshone boys yet again. When the results of Class XII CBSE exams were announced on Saturday afternoon, there were four girls out of total five students at the top three spots in   district. Even scorching heat wave failed to dampen the spirits of jubilant students, mostly girls, who came out in hoards to celebrate their ranks and scores. Schools, which were deserted for several days due to summer vacation, became alive to the chattering of students and teachers.
 
  The pass percentage of Meerut district settled at 78.23%.
  
  Meerut district topper Ananya Singh of Meerut Public Girls’ School, Shastri Nagar (Humanities), who secured 99.4% and a grand total of 497 out of 500, not only topped the district but was tied on the third spot in the country with six other students.
  
  The second in line in Meerut was Ritika from KL International School (Humanities) with 99% followed by three students at the same spot-- Aastha Bansal from KL International School (Humanities),   from Dewan Public School (Humanities) and Preet Tyagi from JP Academy (Humanities)-- all of whom scored 98.8%. Incidentally, all the five students who got the top three spots in the district were from Humanities stream.
  
  All the CBSE schools in the city remained abuzz with students. The results were declared at around 12:30pm on Saturday. As many as 11,228 students appeared for CBSE XII Boards in Meerut, out of whom 8,784 passed, making the pass percentage of the district 78.23%. There were as many as 34 students tied for top 10 ranks in Meerut district.
  
  Ananya Singh said, “I had always expected a good score, but getting the third spot in the country was unexpected. I am really happy with the result. For all others, I suggest that one should focus on revision to score good marks. I plan to study Political Science (Honours) from Delhi University and then sit for Civil Services exam.”
  
  At 99%, just two marks behind the district topper, Ritika, a student of Humanities from KL International secured the second rank in the district and fifth in the country. “The result has come as a pleasant surprise and my entire family is really ecstatic about it. It was all due to hard work and good teachers that I was able to secure such good marks.”
  
  Sapna Ahuja, principal, Meerut Public Girls’ School (Shastri Nagar), which gave the district topper to Meerut, said, “I am very happy about the results. Not only has our school given Ananya Singh, a district topper to Meerut, but she also got the third spot in the country, which is a great. She was a hardworking and regular to school. It was her hard work, concentration and the teachers’ contribution that led to this result.”
