Crash diets, also called meal replacement programmes, have become increasingly fashionable in the past few years. People are opting for   to lose weight in short span. As they say, nothing comes without a price; so is   from crash diet. A recent study has revealed that crash diets can affect heart functions. Hence, patients with heart disease should seek medical advice before adopting a very low calorie diet.

 Dr. Jennifer Rayner, clinical research fellow, University of Oxford, UK led the study. According to her, these diets have a very low calorie content of 600 to 800 kcal per day and can be effective for losing weight, reducing blood pressure, and reversing diabetes. However, its effect on heart was unclear.
 
 The study included 21 obese volunteers. Participants consumed a very low calorie diet of 600 to 800 kcal per day for eight weeks. MRI was performed at the start of the study and after one and eight weeks to investigate the impact of a very low calorie diet on heart function and the distribution of fat in the abdomen, liver, and heart muscle.
 
 After one week, total body fat, visceral fat and liver fat had significantly fallen and this was accompanied by significant improvements in insulin resistance, fasting total cholesterol, triglycerides, glucose and blood pressure.
 
 However, after one week, heart fat content had risen by 44% and this was associated with deterioration in heart function, including the heart's ability to pump blood.
 
 However, by eight weeks, heart fat content and function had improved beyond what they had been before the diet began and all other measurements including body fat and cholesterol were continuing to improve.
 
 In conclusion, low calorie diets do have benefits and do not need to be avoided. Usually healthy people may not notice the change in heart function in the early stages, but caution is needed in people with heart disease. Crash diets do provide metabolic improvements such as reduction in liver fat and reversal of diabetes, and improve heart function. However, crash diets also do cause transient deterioration in heart function. Hence, if you have heart problems, you need to check with your doctor before embarking on a very low calorie diet or fasting. People with a cardiac problem could well experience more symptoms, so the diet should be supervised. 
 
 
 
 
 
