JAIPUR: Following the Rajasthan High Court’s directions on removing encroachments from  , the   ( ) has initiated an exercise to take possession of the land.

 The civic body is examining the records after seeking assistance from the revenue department. Sources claimed, in the meeting, chaired by Jaipur Development Commissioner ( ) Vaibhav Galeriya, it was discussed that records at JDA are not matching with records of revenue department of khasra number 113 and 118.
 
 According to sources, out of 322-bigha Central Park, nearly 14 bigahs of land are not in possession of JDA. The officials are verifying the records, whether land portion near Lilypool which is owned by erstwhile royal family is part of Central Park or not.
 
 An official source said, “There is a difference in the area of land mentioned in two khasras. In the disposed petition, it’s mentioned that Khasra number 113 and 118 has 12 bigah and 10 biswah land. However, as per JDA records, total land in both these khasras are 23 bigah and 10 biswah. Nearly 10 bigah land falls under khasra number 113 and 13 bigah under khasra number 118. To avoid confusion, we have sought records from the revenue department,” he said.
 
 The Rajasthan High Court on Monday directed the JDA to remove all encroachments on the 322-bigha Central Park in the heart of the city and file a compliance report within eight weeks.
 
 This includes 1.10 bigha of land (kasra no. 115 which housed the old Census office) in possession of the star hotel, Rambagh Palace Pvt Ltd, encroachments in the Central Park area opposite the chief secretary’s official residence on Tonk Road, and some religious structures.
 
 Once the possession of land is taken , the Central park would be encroachment free. Earlier, following   directions, the JDA on May 5, had taken possession of properties Lakshmi Vilas Hotel, Kanak Bhawan and a horse stable at Central Park that were spread over nearly 35,000 square metres.
 
 An officials said, “Lakshmi Vilas Hotel and the adjoining marriage garden are constructed in an area about 18,000 sq m; Kanak Bhawan is spread over 3,890 sq m. The stable land situated in the Central Park covers about 11,000 sq m of area.”
 
 
