BENGALURU: The top-down poll narrative in all three major political parties -  ,   and the JD(S) - revolves around development and corruption. But reality is different: Caste emerges as a compelling factor in poll-bound  .

 
 A preliminary data analysis of the candidates fielded by the three parties is a pointer to the fact that caste coalition concocted by the candidate will determine winnability. "Political leaders might be hurling words such as communalism, secularism and opportunism at each other, but the common thread here is that all of us are pandering to caste politics," a senior BJP told STOI. A thought that was echoed by a Congress leader too.
 
 
  
 
  and Vokkaligas form the highest chunk of candidates fielded by the three parties. While Congress has fielded 49 Lingayats and 46 Vokkaligas; the BJP has fielded 68 Lingayats and 38 Vokkaligas; and the JD(S) had 41 Lingayats and 55 Vokkaligas in the fray.
 
 
 
 The Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs), who collectively form the largest caste population, are also important for three parties.
 
 
  
  
 
 "Caste is absolutely important. Examine the Karnataka assembly polls from any angle, you will realize that caste occupies centre stage. Only caste calculations are being spoken at the grassroots," said political analyst Narayana A.
 
  
  
 
 Right from the beginning, the focus has been primarily on stitching caste alliances and not hard-selling the development agenda. In fact, the very idea of bringing back BS Yeddyurappa to the forefront was to woo the Lingayat community and that was a rational caste-based calculation. Ditto with the Congress, which is banking on the consolidation of Kuruba-led other backward castes.
 
 
  
 
 
 "Kurubas, who form a major chunk among other backward castes (OBCs), has solidly stood behind the Congress only because of chief minister  , who belongs to the community," said Narayana. The JD(S), led by former PM HD Deve Gowda and his son  , are primarily riding high on the Vokkaliga community votes.
 
 
 
 
 The BJP has chosen not to field any Muslim candidate, a la Uttar Pradesh. The Congress has 17 Muslims and the JD(S) has 19 Muslims in the fray. In fact, with Muslims numbering over 75 lakh in the state, the Congress and JD(S) are fighting hard to woo them.
 
 A Muslim leader told STOI: "Muslim consolidation is happening in a strong way this polls, something not many are talking about. Muslims will make a huge difference this time." The BJP, meanwhile, maintained that it has been working on the chasms in the OBCs as several smaller castes feel that they have received a raw deal from Siddaramaiah when compared to Kurubas.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
