Nagpur: Fifty artists from across the country took part in a three-day residential camp which had Buddha as its theme. Organized by Lalitya Foundation, the event, titled ‘NaMo Buddhay’, concluded on April 30 to coincide with Buddha Poornima.

 The camp required participants to express their vision, perception and Buddhist ideology on canvas. The result were 47 paintings in oil and acrylic which captured Gautam Buddha in various moods. 
 
 “We invited professional artists from various cities who expressed their vision of Buddha,” says Prasad Pimprikar, founder president of Lalitya Foundation. “Buddha is a universal form which denotes calm and peace. This sentiment was captured by all artists,” he said.
 
 Describing the environment at the workshop as peaceful, Falguni Chaitanya, an artist from Indore said, “The effort was unique as fifty artists were working on the same subject with different interpretations. There was a calm and peace all around which showed in the works too,” said Falguni, who made two paintings.
 
 The three works of Prince Chand, an artist from Delhi, depicted Buddha as a divine light. “I showed Buddha walking away which meant that by following him we will walk the right path,” he said.
 
 The purpose of the workshop was also to link art with charity. “We will be organizing exhibitions of these paintings in art galleries of cities like Mumbai, Indore, Bhopal, Nagpur and Raipur. The proceeds of the paintings will be used to provide art and technical education to ten underprivileged women in the age group of 16 to 35 years,” Pimprikar said. 
 
 Education to these women will entail skill development to help them earn a livelihood. Five of the selected women will get training for software and designing and the other five will be trained in painting and pottery, Pimprikar said.
 
 “In these times when art sales are slow, it requires courage to hold a workshop of this scale,” said Ramchandra Pokle, an artist from Wardha. “But some very good work was done in the camp which I hope will sell to help the underprivileged women,” he added.
 
 ends
 
 
