VELLORE/TIRUVANNAMALAI: Normal life was affected in   and Tiruvannamalai districts on Thursday due to the dawn-to-dusk bandh called by the   and its friendly parties over the Centre’s failure to constitute the Cauvery Management Board (CMB) as mandated by the Supreme Court.

 Over 95% shops, hotels, jewellery and other commercial establishments remained closed in these districts to extend their solidarity with the DMK-led shutdown strike on the Cauvery issue.
 
 Arterial roads – Anna Salai, Vellore-Katpadi Road, Vellore-Arcot Road and Vellore-Arni Road – in Vellore wore a deserted look as hardly any government buses operated on Thursday. Most of the auto-rickshaws and share autos remained off the roads. Only a few vehicles plied the busy Chennai-Bengaluru National Highway. Jewellery shops, grocery shops, rice mandy, manga mandy, vegetable markets and fish markets remained closed in Vellore.
 
 Also, windshields of around 30 government buses, private buses and lorries were damaged in   pelting incidents in the two districts.
 
 The police have registered five cases in connection stone   incidents in Vellore city, while Tiruvannamalai police have registered four cases for damaging government buses at Vandavasi and Kalasapakkam in Tiruvannamalai district. “We have registered five cases so far. We have not received any stone pelting complaints from other places,” the police said.
 
 According to members of the Vellore District Private Bus Owners’ Association, 300 private buses are operated in the district. “Over 280 buses were off the roads today. A few were operated in remote areas,” said a member of the association.
 
 Vellore superintendent of police P Pakalavan said they arrested around 1,700 members of DMK, VCK and Congress parties for staging rail and road rokos in different parts of the districts. DMK principal secretary and   MLA Duraimurugan, MLAs P Karthikeyan (Vellore), A P Nandha Kumar (Anaicut) and R Gandhi (Ranipet) were among the protesters arrested in Vellore.
 
 In Tiruvannamalai, DMK senior leader and MLA E V Velu, along with 500 cadres, was arrested for staging rail roko there. Apart from this, over 1,500 members of DMK, VCK, and Congress parties were arrested in different parts of the districts for staging road and rail roko protests over the Cauvery issue. 
 
 
