MADURAI: The decks have been cleared for laying four-lane along the Trichy-Dindigul section of   with the Madurai bench of the Madras high court dismissing a petition challenging the acquisition of 1.28 sq metres of land for future expansion. 
 
 The   ( ) had acquired pieces of private and government poramboke land in   village of Manapparai taluk in   for laying four lane in the Trichy - Dindigul section. 
  
  Challenging the proceedings, land owners A   and K P Innasi filed cases before the high court bench in 2011 and 2012. 
  
  They said that the authority revised its earlier plan as per which the structures that existed on their piece of land fell outside the plan area. 
  
  Hence they wanted the NHAI to leave out that portion containing houses. However, the NHAI contended that it would use the land for future expansion.. 
  
 The single judge dismissed the cases by a common order dated February 10 last year. 
  
 The land owner duo went in appeal against the order which came up before the division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and R Tharani. 
  
 The bench said that the NHAI had rightly contended that the procedures prescribed under the NH Act had been scrupulously complied with and the land in question was absolutely vested with the central government. Hence, the prayer sought for by the appellants could not be granted. 
  
 The bench said, “In the considered opinion of this court, the said submission lacks merit and substance for the reason that a project of this kind would definitely benefit the public. Fore vision and thought also require that the concerned authorities have to consider the future expansion and need also. 
  
  Since it is the act of acquisition of land for laying the road, it is purely in public interest and in the light of the increase in vehicular traffic, need for acquisition of land for future expansion cannot be faulted with.” 
  
 The court also said that the NHAI was expected to carry out the laning and expansion of the road within the time stipulated by the project authorities and also expected to lay all-weather roads strictly as per the norms of Indian Road Congress. 
  
  
