HYDERABAD: In the chargesheet filed before the special court, National Investigation Agency (NIA) had claimed   blast accused, who are now acquitted, knew each other since 2003 through their affiliation to various religious outfits and held a series of meetings at different locations to avenge blasts at Hindu places of worship by targeting people from the other religion. However, according to defence counsel, the prosecution could not substantiate the allegations with any evidence, resulting in their acquittal.

 NIA had alleged that though the five, against whom a chargesheet was filed, were residing in different states (Gujarat, Bihar and  ), they met through common contacts. Naba Kumar Sarkar alias Swamy Aseemanand, who runs Vanavasi Kalyan Ashram in   in Gujarat, knew Bharat Bhai and introduced him to accused Sunil Joshi, a RSS pracharak from MP who was shot dead by two men in   area of Dewas, MP on December 29, 2007. Joshi introduced Bharat Bhai to other key accused Devender Gupta, Lokesh Sharma and Ramji Kalsangra of Indore.
 
 NIA said main agenda of their discussion was to avenge the 2002 Akshardham terror strike. In 2004, they even met in Ujjain during Kumbh Mela. Subsequent meetings were held at Shabri Dham in 2005 and 2006. After the 2006 Sankat Mochan temple blast in Varanasi, meetings were held under the leadership of Aseemanand and Sunil Joshi at Shabri Dham and Bharat Bhai’s hosue, Thakur Ghar, in Mahadev Nagar, Valsad. In the meetings, it was planned to carry out blasts at different places, including Mecca Masjid, NIA investigators said.
 
 At a meeting at Bharat Bhai’s house, Aseemanand said “at the time of Independence, Nizam of Hyderabad decided to leave for Pakistan. Therefore, a lesson should be taught to Hyderabad too and a bomb should be planted in Hyderabad also. He said that ‘Bomb Ka Jawab Bomb Se Dena’,” NIA alleged.
 
 However, defence counsel B Rajvardhan Reddy said other than Aseemanand’s confession, NIA could not produce any substantial evidence in the court leading to their acquittal. “There were no witnesses to confirm that meeting was held at Bharat Bhai’s house. There was no evidence to prove that SIM cards were purchased by them to use in terror plot. When the trial was happening in Hyderabad, Aseemanand’s confession was recorded before a magistrate in Delhi, where he did not have legal aid,” Reddy told TOI.
 
