NEW DELHI: A 25-year-old man was killed and his father critically injured when they tried to stop two   from stealing their neighbour’s   parked outside their house in southeast Delhi’s Jaitpur early on Saturday morning.

 Vishal and his father Mohan, 50, were both asleep when Vishal’s elder brother, Rohit, was woken up by some noise. He peeped out of the window to espy a man trying to break the window of the WagonR car that his father drove as a cab. “I called out to my father and brother, who rushed downstairs to prevent the theft. Being disabled, I couldn’t help them, but I kept watch from the balcony,” said Rohit.
 
  
  
 
 When the two men ran towards the thieves, one of the men, who was sitting inside their own car, emerged with an iron rod and attacked them. “They also used a sharp weapon on Vishal before they got back into their car. They then rolled down the windows and held my brother and father by the hand and dragged them as they drove away,” Rohit narrated.
 
 After dragging them for over 150 metres, the driver swerved to one side, slamming Vishal against a pole. The victims were left at this spot and the car drove away, police said. Shivani said that when they reached the two, her brother was unconscious, while her father was writhing in pain.
 
 Chinmoy Biswal, DCP (South-east), said a PCR call was received at the Jaitpur police station at 4.20am. A police team rushed to the spot to find the two men had been taken to AIIMS. “After inspecting the scene and after local enquiry, it was apparent that the thieves had come in their own car to attempt stealing vehicles parked in the area,” said Biswal.
 
 Relatives said this wasn’t the first time the father and   had taken on miscreants. This time, however, things went horribly wrong. “Like every day, we had early dinner and my father insisted all of us go out for an evening walk. We returned and went to sleep early too,” recalled Shivani. “As a cabbie, my father was the only earning member in the family till two months ago when Vishal joined a private company.”
 
 Vishal’s mother was inconsolable and kept crying that life would never be the same again. Rohit added brokenly, “Vishal had been planning to take us to Haridwar with his earnings. All that will remain a dream now. It breaks my heart to think that I will go there now with his ashes.”
 
 
