RAJKOT: When   celebrates 100 years of independence in October, there would be similar jamboree in  , a town 25km from  , which shares a special bond with the European country since 1942. 

 Jam Saheb Divijaysinhji, the king of erstwhile Navanagar (now Jamnagar) had given shelter to nearly 1,000 Polish children orphaned during World War II when the country was invaded by the Nazis in 1942.
 
 Adam Burakowski, Poland ambassador to India and Dr Tomasz Gerlach, director of  , visited Balachadi school on Wednesday to discuss the celebration plans for October 3 and October 4. However, the detailed activities are yet to be finalized. 
 
 Group captain Ravinder Singh, principal of  , told TOI, “Their visit was not official, but we discussed plans regarding celebrations of 100 years of Poland independence. We can organize a musical concert according to the Polish tradition and there could be a friendly match between our students and those from Poland. There would also be special thanksgiving programme for Mahajara Digvijaysinhji.” 
 
 The number of people from Poland who will attend the celebrations in the town and those from Government of India will be finalized later. 
 
 Jam Saheb Shatrushalyasinhji will also join this celebrations. 
 
 The premises where the Polish children were given shelter near the Digvijaysinhji’s summer palace was converted into Sainik School in 1961.
 
 Poland was invaded by Hitler’s Nazi forces and Stalin’s Red army in 1939. Most of the families from Soviet-dominated areas were sent to labour camps from where they were loaded in trucks and sent to Turkmenistan, Iran, Afghanistan and India. Many families made it to the refugee camp while Jam Saheb Digvijaysinhji gave shelter to these children and built the school for them. Jam Saheb had also called in seven cooks from Goa to cook food that was less spicy for these children. 
 
 These children stayed in the camp for four years and the Maharaja extended all the facilities to heal their war scars.
 
 
