MANGALURU: Police investigating an abduction case in   taluk, wherein two men posing as policemen, had demanded a person to accompany them to the police station, only to kidnap him later, have concluded that it was a cooked up case. The incident took place at Ariyadka village in Puttur taluk. The story was allegedly weaved by the family to malign one of their  , against whom they are fighting a legal case over a land dispute.

 According to complainant Sowmya, wife of  , late on Monday night, two men arrived at their residence and told her husband that he needed to go to the police station with them. Paying heed, Sridhar moved out of the house with them. The complaint was registered at   police station.
 
 However, when he did not return for long, Sridhar’s father went to the police station only to realize that neither the station house officer nor any other personnel had called him to the police station.
 
 Police, who started investigating the case, learnt that the   was   to target one of their relatives, with whom Shridhar’s family has a long-pending legal battle over property issues. According to sources, on March 28, one of the police informers had come to the station and informed that Shridhar, who was said to be kidnapped, was found roaming inside the  , after which he was brought to the the police station.
 
 While being questioned, Shridhar spilled the beans, that he was not kidnapped, and revealed the plot. He had property issues with his sister and her husband. He reportedly told investigating officers that by doing this drama, he wanted to blame his sister’s family. He revealed that he hatched this plot with his wife Sowmya.
 
 Sources said on the night where he claimed himself kidnapped, Shridhar went to one of his relatives houses, and headed to Mangaluru the next morning. He wanted to file a medico-legal case alleging assault, after being admitted at the government hospital.
 
 Police are now mulling on filing a case against Shridhar, his wife and others for misleading the police and filing a fake complaint. “However, this will be done in consultation with the court,” said the officer investigating the case, while speaking to TOI.
 
 
