KOCHI: Courts have to respect the right of people who have attained majority to have a live-in relationship and cannot order their separation on a  , the   has held.

 
 A division bench of Justices V Chitambaresh and K P Jyothindranath said in the judgment in a case involving a Muslim teenage couple that live-in relationships have become rampant in society. “The constitutional court is bound to respect the unfettered right of a major to have a live-in relationship even though the same may not be palatable to the orthodox section of the society,” it said.
 
 The court gave the order on a habeas corpus petition filed by Muhammed Riyad of Zakariya Bazar, Alappuzha, alleging that his 19-year-old daughter Rifana was under illegal custody of 18-year-old Hanize Harris of Thrikkunnapuzha, Alappuzha.
 
 Hanize and Rifana had submitted in the court that they were in love since school days. They also said they were practically living as husband and wife though not legally wedded.
 
 Rifana’s father had earlier approached Alappuzha judicial first class magistrate and got a favourable order but she had gone back to Hanize. He contended in the high court that Hanize has not completed 21 years of age and falls under the definition of ‘child’ as per Section 2 (a) of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act ( ), 2006. 
 
 The court said Rifana has attained puberty and she can marry both under the Mohammedan Law as well as under the provisions of PCMA. However, the marriage of Hanize who has not completed 21 years of age is voidable at his instance under section 3 of the PCMA, it said.
 
 Rifana has every right to live with Hanize even outside her wedlock since live-in relationship has been statutorily recognized by the legislature itself, the court said. It referred to the Supreme Court decision this year in the Nandakumar vs. State of Kerala case to state that live-in relationship is recognized by the legislature under provisions of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005.
 
 The HC also cited the apex court decision in the   vs. Asokan K M and Others (Hadiya) case to state that courts cannot assume the role of parents and prevent a person who has attained majority from exercising his or her freedom. It dismissed the petition by declaring that Rifana is free to live with Hanize or marry him later on his attaining the marriageable age. 
 
 
