NOIDA: Amid protests by some organisations and political parties against the state government’s decision to refer to Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar Multi-Speciality Hospital in   by its earlier name — District Combined Government Hospital — five-six youths with their faces covered defaced the new board with black ink at the hospital on Thursday night.

 The Mayawati government in 2008 had named the health facility as Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar Multi-Speciality Hospital after handing over its operations to the Noida Authority. Sources said the government had then merely passed an order but did not issue any gazette notification. But the   government, which has decided to take over the hospital from March this year, has decided to revert to the earlier name.
 
 Ever since the administration announced its decision, a new board mentioning District Combined Government Hospital has come up on the premises alongside the one put up in 2008.
 
 The name change has led to protests by the Opposition parties, with the Bahujan Samaj Party accusing the BJP of trying to break away from tradition and the Yuva Shakti Dal organising demonstrations outside the hospital.
 
 According to the lone guard at the hospital main gate, the youths came in bikes and barged into the compound around 11pm. 
 
 They put up a ladder to reach the new board and allegedly used a cloth dipped in black paint to smudge the name. “I tried to stop them but they did not listen to me. I then informed the doctor on emergency duty,” said  , the guard who was at the main gate.
 
 Sources said at least four-five guards of a private security agency were supposed to have been manning the hospital gate at night. 
 
 The agency said it would probe why there was only one guard on Thursday night. The chief medical superintendent of the hospital,  , said they suspected members of the outfit who had demonstration outside the facility a few days ago over the name change to be behind the act on Thursday night. 
 
 Members of the Yuva Shakti Dal, who had protested outside the hospital on January 13, denied any involvement.
 
 “No one has been detained. The protesting groups could be involved in the matter but we are yet to ascertain this,” said Anil Shahi, SHO, Sector 20 police station.
 
 
