

 One of the many ironies of modern living is that while technology is bringing people closer, the sense of loneliness is growing. That’s because a text message can never replace a hug, and virtual Siri a real friend.
 
 Reports now suggest that loneliness can be worse for your health than smoking fifteen cigarettes a day, and that lonely people are more likely to develop cognitive disabilities such as clinical dementia. In a dramatic gesture, the UK recently introduced a Minister of Loneliness which sounds more like the title of a Manu Joseph book but is, in fact, a very real attempt to acknowledge a modern malfunction and its consequences — to individuals and to the state.
 
 Where does one begin? Just as you can’t buy love, can you cure loneliness? Perhaps this overwhelming and depressing and poetic subject can be divided into two broad spaces – social isolation and inner loneliness, a deeply existential space.
 
 Social isolation is now being addressed through innovative policies across the world. In the Netherlands, a nursing home tied up with a university for an exchange programme where students live rent-free in return for giving 30 hours per week socializing with the elderly residents and helping them develop new skills. Australia supports a unique idea of Men Sheds, spaces where men — and increasingly women and young folk — share tools, skills and resources to work on community projects and also support one another on social and health needs. Singapore, afflicted by the ‘silver tsunami’ of a growing elderly population, instituted the Retirement and Re-employment Act some years ago, to provide more opportunities for people to go back to work after the statutory retirement age of 62. Some have thought about facilitating inter-generational interaction by co-locating elder care and childcare facilities, so that both sides stand to gain. Others have created support systems for women, where aloneness – especially at a crucial child-bearing age – smells of failure.
 
 Because there has been a declining commitment to family and community, governments are recognising that they need to spend more on public libraries, daycare centres and community spaces. Human resource departments are constantly curating activities for colleagues to interact beyond superficial chats about some Netflix serial at the water cooler. Now that there are institutional interventions like a national happiness index and a minister of loneliness, things might start changing, yes?
 
  But loneliness is a complicated experience. It is not just about our interaction with other people. Loneliness is also about our relationship with ourselves.
 
  
  
 
 
  Most people believe that partnership, or marriage, or family is a guaranteed insulation from the terror of loneliness. Yet, there are so many lonely people within a marriage, where intimacy has degenerated into ‘pass the remote’, and the sediments of angry silence that pile up year after year gradually turn into stone. People may feel utterly alone even though they live in a big, bubbling joint family. Lonely in a party, lonely in a crowd.
 
 At some point, loneliness has little to do with being with people. It is a state of mind. And this loneliness cannot be resolved by a ministry but, rather, by a very conscious attempt to feel connected — to oneself first and then the world. Here, the self is not the self-absorbed, needy little person staring out of the window, smelling of fifteen stale cigarette butts, waiting for dementia to set in, but one who is meaningfully engaged with the world. She learns to plant her own garden instead of waiting for someone to bring her flowers.
 
 Some might suggest that the inner isolation goes away with service – not just giving things, but giving time, performing random acts of kindness to strangers, being mindful even over how you modulate your tone before you speak. The self is constantly aware of its connectivity to others.
 
 When a person begins to feel interconnected, not just with other people, but with all the forces of the universe that enable human beings to enjoy their time on earth — the giving tree, the ocean in the sky, creatures great and small, that magic light that happens at dusk...That is when you begin to observe more closely and find small signs. The perfectly symmetrical leaf is not merely a leaf. It turns into art, or a scientific observation, or even just enormous gratitude. It takes you beyond yourself. This is why painters and scientists have the desire to communicate their creativity with strangers.
 
 The childless music teacher treats her students as if they were her children. The gardener waters a tree that falls outside his picket fence. You remember to smile at the woman behind the cash register because you realise that she may be as lonesome as you. A fullness starts seeping in and you slip into the role of contributor. This is when the narrative changes. That one-time lonely person who becomes comfortable in solitude is never really alone.
 
 
 
 
 
  is a freelance content marketer — busy, successful and empowered by the new gig economy to be his own boss. And though he revels in the freedom and flexibility that working from home gives him, he admits the extremely short commute from bed to desk is quite hard.
 
 The 26-year-old switched from an office job to freelancing two years ago. “I had things to do and deliberately isolated myself. I wanted to be in control of the people I surrounded myself with, something that an office environment doesn’t allow,” he explained. That was until the insidious irony of being alone cropped up.
 
 For a year, Agarwal worked from his flat in Gurgaon. “I was productive until a point. Then it became a struggle to keep myself motivated every day. It was just me on my own, getting lazy and bored,” admits Nitin, whose professional interactions are mostly within the virtual space.
 
  
  
 
 
 Nitin first moved with his laptop to coffee shops, and then to a co-working space six months ago. “Even though I’m working on my own, it’s refreshing to see other faces around me. It’s also a conscious attempt at broadening my social horizon and avoiding seclusion.”
 
 Another downside to working independently is the feeling of not having anyone to share work problems with or a core group of friends. Long stretches of just being with himself and his work also began impacting his infrequent social interactions. “It had been a while since I had hung out socially so when I met a bunch of people at a friend’s place, I found myself taking time to gel, which was strange as I’m normally outgoing.”
 
 To get over the pangs of loneliness and social awkwardness, he has found himself a flatmate and is consciously trying to reconnect with old friends and stay in touch, “even if it’s a five-minute conversation in a week”. He rewards himself with a Sunday break and dinner with a friend or family after a solid week of work, avoids nostalgia or dwelling on his routine, and chooses to treat loneliness as a “temporary visitor”.
 
 He’s also trying to stay connected with people from his community of freelancers and digital nomads via online groups. “I meet random people in cities I’m visiting for work. I may not see them often but it helps me beat the blues.”
 
 
 
 
 
 Loneliness is like art. It can mean different things to different people. And to  , it is just one of the many curses of being poor. Like thousands of impoverished landless migrants, Anil came to Delhi from north Bihar in 1992 in search of a better life. He worked with his father, who hauled film reels, banners and posters in the bylanes of old Delhi and shipped them to the theatres of Agra, Kanpur and Moradabad. “I carted the reels of Govinda’s Shola aur Shabnam that year,” he recalls.
 
 The two rented a place in Bawana, on the outskirts of north-west Delhi. But Anil often stayed back in Chandni Chowk — maybe four times a week — at night and slept outside a distributor’s office. “On occasions, the film prints would arrive even at 3am. And I didn’t want to miss out on any opportunity to make money,” he says.
 
  
  
 
 
 Sometimes the nights also came with dark thoughts. “I would wonder if I was destined to spend all my life like this. Being poor, my thoughts during those nights of akelapan (loneliness) were all about getting rid of hardship and distress. It wasn’t anything more than that,” he says, almost apologetically. It is as if Anil is aware that loneliness could have more complex faces and his lack of education or awareness prevented him from experiencing it.
 
 In the last 26 years, his life has changed beyond recognition and so has his work. Now, reels are history and digital films don’t need carting around. Thankfully, he says, the theatres still need banners, posters and stands. But his earning is down to less than half. “For a few years before 2012, I made about Rs 25,000 every month. Now it is roughly Rs 10,000,” he says.
 
 He was married at 19, two years after he came to the big city. “February 20, 1994,” he remembers the date. Anil has four kids – three daughters and a son. “I wasn’t thinking much those days. I was too young,” he says, almost ashamed. The eldest girl was married at 21. “I became a grandfather last year,” he smiles and shows his granddaughter’s face, a wallpaper on his second-hand Moto E smartphone. “It’s a different life now because of the mobile. I talk to my family twice a day. Earlier we wrote letters once a fortnight and someone from home would call rarely on STD,” he says.
 
 His father passed away six years ago but not before building a small house on a 12.5-yard plot in Bawana where he lives alone waiting for his wife’s occasional visits. “Kabhi kabhi dar aur ghabrahat hoti hai (Sometimes I experience fear and anxiety). I wonder, what if something happens to me. Would it be too late to call for help? But I try not to worry,” he says.
 
 
 
 
 
 A cherubic baby face beams down from a 2016 calendar. None of the clocks seem to work. It is as if time stands still in this house in tony south Delhi.
 
 “I need to get the batteries changed,” Uma Puri says, a smile on her wizened face. What’s just a routine chore to most of us appears an insurmountable problem to the 80-year-old with weak eyesight and knees. On the face of it, there is nothing Puri lacks. The spacious two-bedroom flat is well-built and equipped with an elevator and intercom. A former sociology professor at Banaras Hindu University, she has a part-time domestic help to clean, a full-time one to cook, and security guards in the building. Bills for maintenance and salaries are looked after by her step-daughter who lives a floor above and drops in occasionally.
 
 “I don’t need anything when it comes to my daily needs. But being alone is very difficult. I am sure it’s tougher for those who don’t have money,” she says.
 
 
  
  
 It must have taken time to get used to this life of silences, but Puri is not one to complain. She only speaks of how as lecturer and warden at BHU, her days were crowded with throngs of young girls coming to her with questions on assignments or seeking permission for a ‘night out’. She married late, didn’t have children, and travelled with her husband. After several years in Zambia, the couple moved back to India 20 years ago. “There isn’t a city in India or Zambia we haven’t been to. We travelled everywhere,” she says with a laugh.
 
 Six years ago, Puri’s husband passed away. As her health declined, so did the things she could do for herself. Books are hard to read and she uses a magnifying glass to get through the newspaper. An occasional visitor is the Greater Kailash-I beat constable, when he does his weekly rounds of senior citizens living alone. Sometimes she visits her two sisters in Delhi, but speaks to them more often on the phone. “The conversation is the same. ‘Sab razi khushi? Sab razi khushi (Is everything ok? Everything is ok here),” she says.
 
 Today, Puri is in the throes of a crisis. The stay-at-home help has quit. Puri struggles to find her diary and her mobile phone. She needs help to read the numbers and dial them. She practically pleads for another maid and maybe one will turn up by evening. But this means there are no chapatis for dinner. “I will eat bread,” she says.
 
 Staying alone at night is scary. “I sometimes have fainting spells, so I prefer it if someone stays the night,” she says. After a long day, the nights seem to stretch even further.
 
 
 
