JAIPUR: The dog menace just got bigger in the city. In the absence of an effective sterilization programme, the   ( ) is struggling to control the increasing number of stray dogs.

 According to JMC officials, the dog population in Jaipur has reached 25,000. However, the civic body has not invited tenders for sterilization and administering anti-rabies injections over the past two years.
 
 
 The much-talked about Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme has in fact turned out to be a total failure with the dogs multiplying beyond control.
 
 Public parks and city roads have become a breeding ground for strays, posing a serious physical threat to citizens.
 
 Ajay Tandon, a regular morning walker at  , said, “The number of stray dogs has increased manifold in the Central Park. These dogs attack morning walkers if they see them alone. The JMC has also showed it’s helplessness in tackling the problem.”
 
 Sources at JMC said the contractor’s term finished on March 20, 2016. The  , Help in Suffering (HIS), which was working in association with JMC has also stopped working to control the menace.
 
 “The NGO receives funds from the government of India for the project. But they also expect JMC to pay the doctors’ salaries and take care of the expenses which we didn't agree to. So, at the moment, no one is working on this project,” said the official source.
 
 While the contractor used to sterilize 500 dogs per month earlier, the renewal failed as the JMC wanted 2,000 dogs to be sterilized every month. Similarly, the doctors were paid Rs 600 per castration of male dog and Rs 700 for the female.
 
 “As the money provided was too low per dog, not many showed interest,” the source added.
 
 “The JMC is aware about the increase in dog population. The contract will be given shortly. The JMC has opened the technical bid and the financial bid is expected to be finalised this week,” a senior JMC official informed.
 
 There are possibilities that the JMC may fail to attract contractors. “We have decided to pay a maximum of between Rs 1,100 and 1,250 (per dog) for sterilization and administering anti-rabies. But contractors may still not come at this rate. Recently, the   ( ) fixed Rs 2,000 per dog,” the official said.
 
 Nitin Singh, a veterinary doctor, said, “Stray dogs have extremely high breeding rates. As per studies, two dogs can multiply to over 300 in three years over a few generations. They are also highly territorial, with each dog having its fixed niche. The exposed garbage and slums are ideal for stray dogs to flourish. The JMC should control the situation at the earliest.”
 
