Nagpur: Chancellor Ch Vidyasagar Rao has sought a ‘report’ from Nagpur University (NU) vice chancellor SP Kane following a complaint by Katol MLA Ashish Deshmukh over the   refusing permission for a lecture at NU’s   last month. Deshmukh said Kane’s decision was a ‘definite insult to woman and womanhood’.

 However, the chancellor’s letter dated January 16 is silent on the nature of report sought and the time frame for responding to it.
 
 Deshmukh was the guest of honour for the ‘First Matoshree   Oration’ on the theme ‘Mother, the only absolute’ to commemorate the second death anniversary of Shivkumari  , the mother of academician Dr Vedprakash Mishra. The lecture was finally held at IMA Hall on December 11, 2017.
 
 A year ago, the same function was held at the NU Convocation Hall and Kane presided over it.
 
 Deshmukh told TOI that the VC’s decision was in bad taste. “I strongly condemn the VC’s decision. There was no other function scheduled that day. The late Mrs Mishra was an inspiration to many people,” he said.
 
 Kane told TOI that the chancellor has only sought his opinion. The letter, a copy of which is with TOI, states that a report has been sought. “The request letter was sent by DK Agrawal (former BCUD director). His link with the organization of lecture was not clear. The letter was received on December 5 and mentioned that the lecture is scheduled for November 30. How can a permission be granted for a backdated event,” asked Kane.
 
 Refusing to show Agarwal’s letter, Kane also said that the writing on it was illegible. 
 
 Agrawal said he had forwarded the request in the capacity as chairman of the 2nd Matoshree Smruti Adaranjali Samaroh & Matoshree Oration. The trust was set up in the memory of Mishra’s mother.
 
 “Why would I send a letter with a wrong date. The permission was deliberately denied because of the VC’s personal issues with Dr Vedprakash Mishra,” said Agrawal.
 
 Dr Mishra said that the request letter was dated November 30 and the VC rejected it on December 5.
 
 The university’s rejection letter has no mention that the hall was sought on rent on November 30.
 
 Requests & Rejection
 
 Dec 11, 2016 | Adaranjail Samaroh to commemorate first death anniversary of Shivkumari Mishra is presided over by VC SP Kane
 
 Nov 30, 2017 | Organising committee chairman DK Agrawal seeks permission to rent NU Convocation Hall to hold lecture as part of second commemoration
 
 Dec 5 | VC SP Kane denies permission stating that the hall can’t be given for private/family function
 
 Dec 11 | The lecture delivered by ex-VC of KKSU Uma Vaidya is held at IMA hall
 
 Dec 14 | Agrawal seeks NU policy based on which the VC rejected the request
 
 Dec 20 | Katol MLA Ashish Deshmukh, who was guest of honour, lodges complaint the chancellor
 
 Jan 16 | Deputy secretary to governor Ujjawala Dandekar seeks report from the NU VC
 
 Contentions
 
 VC SP Kane says he received the letter on Dec 5 stating the lecture was to be held on Nov 30
 
 NU letter dated December 5, 2017, reads, “Booking for Convocation Hall on 11/12/2017 for Second Adaranjali of Matoshree.”
 
 MLA Deshmukh says the action has insulted departed soul, woman and womanhood as the Late Mrs Mishra was an inspiration to all
 
 DK Agrawal says there is no such policy to refuse permission for non-political lectures
 
 
