NAGPUR: Capital gains from sale of assets other than land and building cannot be invested in designated bonds to save tax from the next fiscal. Experts reading the fine print of the   document say that an amendment proposed calls for doing away with the provision of investing the proceeds of sale of such assets in the National Highway Authority of India ( ) or   (REC).

 “Profits on sale of a host of assets apart from land and building, such as gold, jewellery, shares or even legal rights are liable to capital gains tax. Earlier, the tax could be saved if the proceeds were invested in the capital gains bonds. There is an option to invest the proceeds in residential property also. However, the current Budget proposes to do away with the option of investing in bonds for other assets,” said Naresh Jakhotia, a chartered accountant. Although the proceeds of land and building sold can be invested in bonds to save tax, it is not possible for other assets. Even the tenure of the bonds has been increased to five years from three years at present, he said.
 
 “This will reduce tax saving options for corporates. It’s not the individual alone which have to pay tax on capital gains. Even companies sell capital assets other than land and building and the gains are taxed. Now with the option of investing in bonds gone, buying residential real estate remains the only option for a corporate entity. However, buying homes to save tax may not be practically possible for a company either,” said Jakhotia.
 
 “The re-introduction of long-term capital gains tax in shares also brings an advantage for the taxpayer. Now since the tax has been introduced, even capital loss on sale of equity shares can be set off against gains on sale of any other capital asset,” said  , former chairman of Nagpur branch of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI).
 
 The move to re-introduce long-term capital gain taxes on equity shares will not get a major gain for government in the immediate future. This is because of the grandfathering formula of the rates, said Chandrashekhar Tilak, the executive director of National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL). 
 
 He was speaking at a talk on budget organize by a private financial consultancy firm. Tilak said the finance minister, Arun Jaitely in his budget speech mentioned that exempted capital gains according to the returns filed for 2017-18 stand at Rs3,67000 crore. However, the gains had come over a period of time. 
 
 Now with the grandfathering formula which takes shares’ rates as on January 31 2018 as the base, and fall in stock market following the budget, it may take time to get similar returns, he said. However, as the fall will spur volume government is expected to eventually gain, he said. 
 
 
