GURUGRAM: The   on the city’s outskirts welcomed over 55,000   this winter, registering almost a 120% rise from the previous year. Forest officials cited lower air pollution levels than the past year and availability of enough food as reasons for this  .

 The park not only received an increased number of seasonal visitors but also played host to more species of birds this winter, giving a real treat to birdwatchers.
 
 According to forest department records, 55,377 migratory birds made their way to the national park in 2017-18, up from 25,113 in 2016-17. Also, experts and birdwatchers claimed to have seen 186 types of species this season, as against 169 species in 2016-17.
 
 Out of 186, there were 81 migratory species while the rest were resident species (those belong to this region of the country). Last season, 73 migratory and 96 resident species were spotted in the park while 69 migratory and 98 resident ones spent the 2015-16 winter there.
 
 The final numbers (for the whole season) may go up further when the forest department does another counting in March.
 
  
  
 “Both the number of birds and the number of species have gone up this season, as compared to the last one. There has been an increase in the number of migratory species too. This is a phenomenal increase when compared to the past three-four years’ bird counts,” said Vinod Kumar, conservator of forest (wildlife), Gurugram circle. He added that the counting was done by four teams of the department.
 
 “The final count will be released in March. We will do one more counting as many birds are being sighted even in February this year,” said Kumar.
 
 Interestingly, four endangered species — black bittern, great bittern, great crested grebe and marbled duck, which had apparently dropped   from their winter itinerary in the past — were also spotted in the park this year again.
 
 While black bittern and great bittern were seen after a couple of years, great crested grebe returned almost after eight years. Marbled duck, which comes from Mediterranean region, was seen after four years, sources said.
 
 “It is so good to see rare species coming back to the park. It is definitely due to less pollution and smog this season, as compared to the past years. Also, there is enough food for both herbivores and carnivores in Sultanpur National Park,” said Dr Ashok Khasa, veterinarian surgeon at the district wildlife department.
 
 Located some 15km from the city, Sultanpur National Park receives migratory birds from as far as Siberia, Central Asia and Europe. On an average, 20,000 migratory birds pay visit to the park in winters. Also, the park is home to 400 resident bird species, including peafowls, sunbirds, white throated kingfisher, white ibis, black-necked stork, cattle egret, grey francolin and Indian cormorant. 
 
 “But all the resident species don’t stay here throughout the year. Also, many resident species abandon the park if pollution levels are high and there is not enough food during the winters,” said a birdwatcher.
 
 
