KOCHI: With Kochi Rail Ltd (KMRL) deciding to   and lifts inside the   station, every nook and corner of the Metro system be under ‘complete’   surveillance.

 KMRL managing director APM   said, “Steps will be taken to install CCTVs inside lifts without delays.” As of now, elevators are the only space inside the stations that are not under surveillance.
 
 On Saturday, TOI had reported an alleged molestation inside the lift at Metro station in Kaloor. The incident, in which a youth allegedly tied to embrace a woman, took place on Tuesday. It exposed the lack of a proper surveillance mechanism at Metro stations.
 
 The lapse in security system came to light when the police team, conducting a preliminary investigation team, tried to obtain CCTV footage of the incident that happened inside the lift.
 
 Even when KMRL tries to tighten up security measures, it should be noted that there is a shortage in   Special Police (KMSP) to man the stations. While male commuters are frisked at all Metro stations, the absence of women personnel have created a situation where female commuters, entering the stations, are not frisked. Those observing the Metro system warned that letting female passengers pass unchecked is an act of compromising safety and security.
 
 Meanwhile, officials with Kochi Metro said that the police was responsible for posting security personnel at stations. “It is up to them to decide how many male and female personnel are required at each station. It is the responsibility of the police to ensure that commuters are frisked and their baggage is scanned before entering the station. The Metro agency can only request them to do so,” said a KMRL official.
 
 However, Hanish said that there is a shortfall in the number of police personnel required for manning Kochi Metro stations. “As the number of stations increased, it became difficult to provide sufficient number of personnel. KMRL has taken up the matter, and I have had discussions with the Kochi range IG. We hope the matter will be addressed without much delay,” he said.
 
