MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Wednesday restrained the municipal commissioners of Mumbai and Thane from taking any decision on pending applications for felling trees. It carved an exception for the civic commissioner to allow trees to be cut in case of “extreme emergency” where it may endanger life or property.
 
 The interim order was passed by a bench of Justices Abhay Oka and   while hearing two petitions in respect of both cities.
 
 For Mumbai, the petition was filed by activist   challenging the January 16, 2017 amendment to the Maharashtra (Urban Areas) Protection and Preservation of Trees Act, 1975 which empowers the municipal commissioner to sanction felling of up to 25 trees. Beyond 25, the proposal would go before the Tree Authority.
 
 
  
 At a previous hearing,   had told the court it will not process any further proposals till the court decides the matter. On Wednesday, when BMC sought more time, the judges said, “We take it that no decisions are being taken.” Posting the hearing on March 23, the judges said they shall consider grant of interim relief for stay on the amendment that day. “Till next date municipal commissioner shall not take any decision on pending applications for felling or cutting of tress. This order will not prevent the municipal commissioner from granting permission in case of extreme emergency unless he is satisfied that it may result into loss of human lives or cause danger to any property,” they said. Since Bathena’s petition has challenged the amendment saying it is unconstitutional, the court issued notice to the advocate general and sought the government’s reply.
 
 The petition in respect of Thane was filed by activist Rohit Joshi who challenged the appointment of members of the Tree Authority and urged that it be reconstituted. The court had earlier restrained the Tree Authority from granting permissions for felling trees. Thane Municipal Corporation’s advocate told the court a decision has been taken to dissolve the authority. “Once the body will be dissolved, we will take necessary steps to reconstitute the  ,” stated a February 20 letter by Thane civic chief Sanjeev Jaiswal.
 
 A Thane developer’s advocate submitted that with the Tree Authority ceasing to exist, under the Act the commissioner has power to perform his duties. “In what manner will he take decision? He is not an expert in the field. On this aspect all parties will have to be heard,” said Justice Oka. The judges then directed that the commissioner will not take any decision and that even if applications are made, they will be permitted only in case of extreme emergency. The court has posted the matter for March 7.
 
  
 
