GURUGRAM:   (HCG) Distribution Limited will shut down all of its 25 fuel stations in Gurugram for 41 hours beginning Saturday afternoon for shifting the existing pipeline near Iffco Chowk to clear the way for construction of an underpass coming up on MG Road.

  
 The shutdown will temporarily affect the supply of   in the city but autorickshaw,   and   cab drivers claimed the move would not have any significant impact on their operations as they could procure gas from neighbouring Delhi. 
 
 HCG officials claimed the piped natural gas (PNG) supplies to commercial as well as domestic consumers would remain unaffected. It has nearly 20,000   consumers, including around 150 industrial connections, with a 500km-long pipeline network in the city. “Haryana City Gas Distribution Limited hereby notifies its CNG customers that all its fuel stations shall remain closed from 1pm on Saturday (March 17) to 6am on Monday (March 19). The decision is taken by our upstream gas supplier M/s GAIL (India) Ltd for rerouting the existing CGPL pipeline at Iffco Chowk due to NHAI’s underpass work. The shutdown will temporarily affect the supply of automotive fuel (CNG),” a HCG release read.
 
 “The shutdown will affect Gurugram district only,” a HCG spokesperson said. “The GAIL pipeline, coming from Delhi to Gurugram, is being rerouted to clear the way for construction of an underpass by NHAI at Iffco Chowk. The time period (41 hours) is the maximum that GAIL has sought. It might complete the work and resume supply well before that. But we have to assume that supply will formally be restored on Monday morning only,” he said.
 
 It also urged its CNG customers to ensure an alternate arrangement during the said period and use available fuel judiciously.
 
 In Gurugram, the CNG fuel stations are located in sectors 14, 15(I), 15(II), 22, 29, 31, 33, 35, 37, 44, 49, 52, 53, 53(II), 57, 62, 72A, 86, 89, 98, Alipur, IOCL sector, Sohna, Palwal Road, the bus depot, Pataudi and Farrukhnagar.
 
 Autorickshaw drivers claimed that the shutdown won’t hit their operations. “There is a gas station just on the other side of Kapashera border (in Delhi). We will fill in our tanks in advance so that it lasts till supply resumes,” said Anoop, who hails from Dhundhahera.
 
 Even drivers of app-based car aggregators said they could get their vehicles refilled in Delhi. However, the nearest CNG stations, most of which lie in the vicinity of the IGI Airport, are expected to face the rush over the next few days. The GAIL pipeline has been obstructing construction of the one-way underpass from Huda City Centre on August Kranti Marg to the Delhi-bound carriageway of MG Road.
 
 
 
