NEW DELHI: Going from Delhi University’s   to   will soon take 40 minutes, half the current travel time. The Durgabai Deshmukh South Campus   is up, and safety trials on Delhi Metro’s upcoming Pink Line connecting Majlis Park with   are over. 

 The station will have several unique features, including the first ever   (moving walkway) on the metro network. It will provide access from the new station to the existing Dhaula Kuan station on the Airport Line. The travelator, however, is only 60% ready and will start functioning by June, much after the inauguration of the line.
 
  
  
 
 "Travelators were only available at the airport, but DMRC has installed one of the longest ones at 920 metres here to ease passage for users," said a DMRC official. "The foot overbridge will have 22 travelator units, each of 7.1m width, to reduce walking time between the two stations to 10 minutes." 
 
 The link between the university campuses is shorter now in terms of time. "Passengers will cut short travel time by over 40 minutes if they use the interchange section on the Azadpur Line to access the Pink Line or alternatively use the Yellow Line to reach New Delhi and take the Airport Line to Dhaula Kuan and get on the travelator," the official said. 
 
 The station will also boast the highest point on the   network, sitting as it does on top of the Dhaula Kuan multi-grade separators and the Airport Line viaduct. "At 23.6m, it is almost seven stories high and posed a challenge to our engineers who had to work atop a functioning Airport Express Line and a busy road intersection," said an official involved with the construction.
 
 Located next to Sri Venkateswara College’s playing field, the station has been designed in such a way as to allow students and other pedestrians to cross the road without going to the paid-area sections of the station, thereby making the station in effect a public foot overbridge. In its vicinity are colleges, including Venkateswara, Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma, Jesus and Mary and Maitreyi, and residential areas like RK Puram, Moti Bagh and Satya Niketan. DMRC expects over 12,000 people to initially use the station every day.
 
 Buddhist murals give the station a bright look, as do the mini gardens at the entry points. The facilities are disabled-friendly and include hand-railings in the toilets. It also has a diaper changing section for people with toddlers.
 
 
