NEW DELHI: In a couple of months, you may have to pay for parking your   outside your house, besides shelling out more for the facility across the capital. Delhiites, however, will have a limited say on how much they will pay for parking in the residential areas and also the mode of payment.

 After lieutenant governor Anil Baijal approved Delhi Maintenance and Management of Parking Rules, 2017, the Delhi government on Monday published the draft notification, inviting suggestions and objections from the public within 30 days. This will be followed by the final notification.
 
 The rules, which are essential to implement the parking policy drafted by the Delhi transport department, follows the principle of ‘user pays’ and is aimed at discouraging on-street and long-duration parking. There are provisions for double parking charges for on-street parking, which will increase exponentially after the first hour, apart from dynamic pricing with differential peak- and off-peak-hour charges. The charges will be based on a ‘base parking fee’ determined by an apex monitoring committee headed by the chief secretary of the Delhi government.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 All civic agencies in Delhi will have to prepare and implement area-specific integrated parking plans in accordance with the rules within four months of the final notification. The plans will include parking arrangements within the residential areas that will be decided after consulting locals or residents welfare associations (RWAs). 
 
 Parking in these areas will be allowed in demarcated zones on public streets and open surfaces against charges, which will be decided by the civic agencies after consulting local RWAs. “There won’t be any parking fee for the residential areas as of now but we will map the areas where parking will be allowed,” a south corporation official recently told TOI.
 
 A senior transport official claimed that the charges in the residential areas were planned in public interest and these would be levied, even if on the lower side. “The charges in the residential areas will be decided through a democratic process and RWAs will be consulted but their suggestion will not be binding on the civic agencies, which will take an independent decision. Parking charges in the residential areas will be imposed,” he said.
 
 According to the rules, if any resident parks on public roads despite staying in a building with stilt parking facilities, he will have to pay twice the normal charges fixed for others.
 
 The owners of vacant plots in the residential areas can use these as parking places after getting permission under the building bylaws. However, parking on footpaths has been prohibited and such vehicles will be towed away. Junk vehicles parked on roads, including petrol vehicles older than 15 years and diesel vehicles older than 10 years, will be impounded.
 
 Para-transit vehicles such as autos and non-motorised vehicles will be given priority in on-street parking. Special provisions, including a barrier-free environment, have been included in the rules to help the differently abled and the senior citizens.
 
 For the first time, the parking rules give powers to officials of civic agencies to challan vehicles at par with Delhi Traffic Police and the transport department.
 
 
