Nagpur: The state government will conduct the Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) on July 8, the local education department announced on Saturday. The test is mandatory for all seeking job as teachers from Std I-VIII as well as those who joined after Feb 2013. Online applications for TET start from April 24. Sanjay Nagre, an official at the Deputy Director of Education (DDE) office, said, “Those who are currently employed (from 2013) have to appear and clear the exam by 2019. No school shall employ any new teacher unless he or she has cleared the TET.” The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) too has made it mandatory to clear the eligibility test for teachers, though it has its own pan-India version. The Central Teachers Eligibility Test (CTET) is conducted twice a year and the certificate is valid for seven years. However, CBSE has clarified that teachers can be hired even if they possesses the respective state’s equivalent exam. This has cleared the way for CBSE schools in Maharashtra to hire teachers based on TET certificates as well, rather than CTET only. The mandatory TET was introduced to comply with RTE Act provisions and is more likely to be used by private school job applicants as hiring in government and government-aided schools has almost stopped. In Zilla Parishad schools, there has been hiring done since 2012 as they battle falling enrolment and excess teachers, the aided schools have been asked to fill vacancies from the excess teacher pool. RTE lottery’s second round held RTE admissions second round lottery has been completed and 2448 students have been selected in Nagpur district. The education department has asked parents to complete admission formalities between April 23 to May 10. Schools have been directed to update the online database once the admission is either confirmed or rejected. Students who do not complete admission formalities in the given time frame, will forfeit their chance to seek RTE admission for this academic session. Online Teacher salaries likely from June Due to technical issues, teacher salary bills were being generated by schools in the old offline format due to which there used to be a delay in payments. Salaries still got deposited in bank only, but the process was time consuming. A recent internal circular in the education department hints at the online process coming back with salary of May (to be paid in June). The circular addressed to education officials has directed them to prepare for the original online payment process. 