KOLKATA: City fans would like to forget Friday’s match in a hurry. The hopes of over 60,000 fans were dashed when the home team lost the second qualifier and got knocked out of the tournament despite having a home advantage, favourable statistics and winning the toss.

 
 “KKR should have won this match. They had everything going for them till the toss. That is when we lost the match,” said a dejected fan.
 
 The match was not exactly a thriller but it had its moments. TOI tracked the mood swing of more than half a lakh fans at   as the home team started off its campaign to seal a berth in the final.
 
 The Toss Everybody in the stadium was stunned when the word spread that Dinesh Karthik had decided to field first after winning the toss. A hush descended with cricket pundits in the stand already predicting a difficult contest.
 
 “In such crucial matches, it is always better to have a good score on the board and let the opponents chase. Our batting has not exactly been outstanding in the tournament,” said Kailash Bera, watching the match with his friends at a pub in Sector V in Salt Lake.
 
 Khan-tastic When  , the spinner from  , hit the ball for a six over long leg on the last ball of the Hyderabad innings,  , said: “There goes our hope to make it to the final.”
 
 Even till the seventeenth over it seemed SRH will struggle to reach 150 but then walked in Khan, who worked magic with the ball in this IPL. His 36 of 10 balls boosted the sagging morale of his team but stunned the entire Eden Gardens. He played like a pro with hitting some proper crciketing shots. He shored up the run rate from six and a half to more than 8. By now, the Kolkata fans had started believing that it was over for them.
 
 
 
 But the fans were soon on their feet cheering the flurry of boundaries by Kolkata openers   and Lynn. The cheers grew louder with every boundary by the Kolkata openers. Lynn continued with the hard hitting even after Narine’s departure staying ahead of the required run rate. “If they continue to play like this we may wrap up before the 20 overs,” said an excited  . But that was not to be. It was soon over to rashid Khan who gave away a miserly 19 runs in his four overs and took three wickets. “He took the match away from us first with the bat and then with the ball. Wish he was playing for us,” said
 
 
