KOLKATA: After the prospects for the release of ‘Padmavati’ brightened with   recommending a change of title to ‘Padmavat’ and five other modifications for granting ‘U/A’ certificate, it threw up mixed reactions in Bengal.

 While Tollywood largely disapproved of Central Board of Film Certification’s recommendations, Bengal-based organisations that had protested the ‘Ghoomar’ dance in the film are happy.
 
 “I am very disappointed with the CBFC verdict. Where is this country heading? All these protests had a political agenda. The   elections are over and CBFC has given its verdict. No theatre owner in Rajasthan will get the local government’s support if this film releases there. We are fortunate that the case is different in Bengal,” said Navin Choukhani, owner of Navina cinema that had borne the brunt of anti-‘Padmavati’ protests on November 19. Police were posted there after 50-odd protesters came to the hall and asked the authorities to remove the ‘Padmavati’ banners.
 
 On November 29, Tollywood had observed a 15-minute blackout in solidarity with Sanjay Leela   and his team. Shooting of Kaushik Ganguly’s ‘Drishtikone’, starring Prosenjit Chatterjee and  , was suspended for 15 minutes.
 
 Said Prosenjit: “We respect censorship. We are waiting for the film to release, irrespective of what the title is. At the same time, I would like to say that the pressure on a director and producer is increasing now. We need to find a way to negotiate this problem.”
 
 Though anti-‘Padmavati’ protesters like Karni Sena and some prominent former royals continue to hold out, some in Bengal are happy with the CBFC verdict. Hindu Jagran Manch (Kolkata Mahanagar) PRO Vivek Singh said: “If our concerns are addressed and the film doesn’t distort history, we have no problems. We are glad the ‘Ghoomar’ dance has been modified. We didn’t have any problems with the original title of the film. Changing it has no special significance for us.”
 
 Shankar Baksh Singh, general secretary of Bengal-based Akhil Bhartiya Kshatriya Samaj that had objected to the ‘Ghoomar’, is happy with the CBFC recommendations. “If Bhansali makes the changes recommended by CBFC, we are fine with it,” he said.
 
 Bharat Kshatriya Samaj president Rajesh Singh, who had also objected to the film, said: “We need to see what happens to it once the CBFC recommendations are implemented. Our reactions will be based on that. We can’t decide on our reactions before that.”
 
