NAGPUR: The state   at its meeting in Mumbai on Wednesday gave approval to drafts of the documents required for finalizing the develop-build-finance-operate and transfer (DBFOT) contracts to be executed with bidders for the city’s   project. 

 The cabinet note said Mihan’s partners Maharashtra Airport Development Company and  , which has 51:49 stakes in the project, has decided to develop the proposed international hub airport through private partners on DBFOT basis. 
 
 The necessary approval for it was given in cabinet meeting of July 23, 2017. In accordance with that approval, five qualified private players were chosen through request for quotation (RFQ) basis. 
 
 Subsequently, request for proposal and concession agreement documents were sought from them. Of the six firms that qualified for the bids, the Dattatray Mhaiskar helmed Ideal Road Builders (IRB) is now out of the race as it did not produce supporting documents. The five now in fray are — Essel Infrastructure, GVK, GMR, Tata Realty and   Infra.
 
 Now, as the RFP and concession agreement have been approved by the state cabinet,   (MIL) can go ahead with calling of bids from the five companies which have been shortlisted under an earlier process.
 
 However, sources say that MIL will only be able to float the RFP by June 2018 considering the other formalities to be done. MIL is a joint venture between MADC and  . Both have contributed equity in the form of land in the joint venture MIL. 
 
 Now, the MADC and AAI have to sign a lease deed for the land provided to MIL. The formality could not happen ever since MIL was formed in 2009. 
 
 It did not lead to any problem as it was a government-to-government deal. Now, since a private party has to be roped in, the airport assets cannot be transferred without the lease deed. The MIL, as a joint venture, needs to have a lease deed for the land it has got from both MADC and AAI.
 
 Sources say it may not take time for MADC to sign the lease deed. The AAI is taking time for its part. A survey of land is being conducted by AAI, for which it has set an internal deadline of March 2018. 
 
 Once AAI signs the deed, MADC can follow soon. Given the other formalities to be done after it, sources say it may take May or June to call the tenders.
 
 The company bagging the contract has to pump in Rs1,685 crore for development of the airport. The concession agreement calls for revenue sharing between MIL and the private party. The company offering the highest share will bag the deal. 
 
 
