MUMBAI: Would you know if the innocuous-looking cabbie ferrying you is part of a chain through which   enter the city? Drug lords are known to use “invisible” carriers to ferry consignments and, officials say, the   typically changes hands 15-20 times between source and destination. The carriers keep changing so that police do not catch up.

 A 40-year-old Kota man and a cabbie were caught in Matunga on Sunday with 4.1kg of heroin worth Rs 6 crore, which they were supposed to hand over to a woman dealer, identified as Zalla from Grant Road. The trail eventually led to another of her houses in   but it was locked, said police. Both the Kota man and the cabbie claim to have never seen Zalla; she would always cover her face. “The heroin is unadulterated. We have sent it for chemical analysis,” said DCP Shivdeep Lande. Such heroin, said an officer, is usually smuggled from the   (Afghanistan, Iran and Pakistan), Golden Triangle (Myanmar, Thailand and Laos) or Latin America. “It is a chain—from cultivation to manufacturers to drug lords to traffickers, before it reaches consumers,” he said.
 
 Heroin is made from opium produced in Afghanistan and production has risen since US entered the country in 2001. Afghanistan’s opium meets 90% of global demand. “Poppy cultivators send opium to pharma companies. The first leak happens here—poppy is smuggled out and sold to heroin manufacturers,” said an officer.
 
 Manufacturers in Af-Pak then process it into heroin which is graded into two qualities—pure and impure. “The final product is despatched to kingpins who courier it to drug traffickers in various countries,” said an officer. The kingpin earns the maximum profit as he has the difficult job of infiltrating a country. He deploys several chains—from border agents to dealers in cities to traffickers. Commissions and advances are paid at every level, he said.
 
 “The work of border agents is risky as they have to take the drugs across. Once it enters India, it goes to the dealer, who has made an advance payment,” said the officer.
 
 Given the value of the consignment, traffickers use a small, trusted circle of carriers who travel between states in trains, buses or cars. “In Mumbai, when a consignment arrives, the owner of the cargo changes. A taxi driver, a tourist or a flyer could become the owner. Then it goes to wholesalers, who adulterate it. It is then sent to peddlers for sale to clients,” a source said.
 
 
