CHENNAI: With forests in the suburbs being stripped to make way for high-rise buildings,   have warned that these areas could soon disappear unless innovative measures are taken to protect them.

 A senior forest officer noted that there was a large patch of forest cover around the village of Gudalur near Vandalur two decades ago. But the entire forest has now been cleared to build residential apartments, he said. In order to avoid such violations, forests in the suburbs have to be geo-tagged, he added.
 
  chairman   said the forest cover in Chennai is not even 3%, which is much less than other metros like Bengaluru, Hyderabad, New Delhi and Mumbai. 
 
 “Open spaces in the city must be identified where high density planting can be taken up with local species. Such an effort will attract more native birds and insects,” he said.
 
 Newer methods are available to expand   even when there are space constraints. 
 
 In countries like Japan, where the demand for land is very high, vertical forests have been created in the form of dense plantations raised in multiple layers, said Krishna Kumar. Such efforts must also be explored here, he added.
 
 Krishna Kumar said the authority has also sent a circular seeking green initiatives in upcoming real estate projects. Every building must have a green belt of 10-20% and builders should contribute whenever a restoration is planned for a nearby water body. 
 
 Builders should also ensure that high rise apartments do not come up on the migratory path of birds or break wind movement, he added.
 
 On a positive note, former principal chief conservator of forests S Balaji said there were checks and balances in place to prevent the clearing of forests for new residential localities. 
 
 Although there was pressure to allow construction of houses in such areas as recently as 2010, the Supreme Court has stated that even woody areas that are not declared as reserve forests cannot be cleared to facilitate the building of concrete structures, he said. The department has also raised plantations through its social forestry wing in some revenue lands, he added.
 
 
