CHANDIGARH: The newly sworn-in   ministers will be kept on a tight leash with   leadership reviewing their performance after six months. Meanwhile, there was one big change in portfolio. On a request by Aruna Chaudhary, school education was taken from her and given to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s loyalist OP Soni.

 Congress in-charge of Punjab affairs Asha Kumari confirmed that while approving the list of new ministers, party president   had told the state leadership that the performance of the ministers should be reviewed after six months and non-performers could face the music.
 
 
 Asked about the change in school education portfolio, she said it was done on a request from Chaudhary, who earlier held the charge as minister of state and had now been elevated and compensated with the transport department. Chaudhary has also been given social security and woman and child development, two portfolios earlier held by the other woman in the cabinet, Razia Sultana.
 
 Where there has been resentment among a section of party leaders who were either expecting a cabinet berth on the basis of seniority or from the Dalit quota, the party leadership has tried to play down such reports. “There is provision for only 18 ministers; some aspirants are bound to be left out. These issues will be resolved within the party. However, the party has not received anything officially from those who are being reported to be upset,” said Kumari.
 
 Sources said the party tried to reach out to   legislator Navtej Singh Cheema, who was expecting a cabinet berth and had been reportedly nursing a grouse for being left out. “He has been working overtime ahead of the 500th anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak in the area and his noninclusion has come as a disappointment,” said one of his supporters.
 
 Earlier, in the run-up to the cabinet expansion, talks were rife about a reshuffle in portfolios with talk of the good performers being rewarded with additional departments. In line with this, where rural development minister   has also been given housing and urban development, technical education, industrial training and employment generation minister Charanjit Singh Channi has failed to get any more department in the cabinet expansion Minister Aruna Chaudhary was not available for comments.
 
