NAGPUR: Instead of holding him down, personal tragedies filled   with renewed vigour to scale academic heights. He scored 98% in the science, making him the probable state topper in the stream. 

 
 
 
 In 2016, Aditya’s father suffered a paralysis attack which disturbed the family’s financial situation completely as he was the sole bread winner. 
 
 “My paternal uncle is supporting us as my father is undergoing treatment. I am very happy with my score today and I want to build on this by making a career in medicine and want to be a neurosurgeon,” said Aditya, a student of Ambedkar College.
 
 Aditya feels that he could have done much better. “In chemistry, I scored five marks less than expected. The syllabus for the subject is very vast and there was only a day’s gap for the paper. One question of five marks was very tricky and I couldn’t get through it.” 
 
 His mother Manjulata is very proud of her son’s achievement. “We hail from a very small town in   district and right from the early days we could see signs of his academic brilliance. Even his teachers told us that   is a sharp kid and he must be given the right exposure. 
 
 “In Nagpur, Aditya joined the best institutions and the results are there for us to see. We are very happy to see him reap the fruits of his hard work and dedication,” she said. 
 
 There is no short cut to success but consistent and regular studies are the key to score well, believes Aditya. He said, “Every day, I used to dedicate time to go through the syllabus and revise lessons. This helps to reproduce on paper accurately whatever we learn and improve the confidence level.” 
 
 Aditya would get his doubts cleared instantly after going through a new topic to avoid backlog and this helped him in better understanding of the subject. Aditya is a bibliophile and loves to read about ancient history and culture.
 
 About dealing with exam pressure, he said, “Just focus on your weak areas and work upon them to prepare well. Keep in mind the tips and tricks about paper solving given by expert teachers as they are really useful.” 
 
 
