What the last couple of games has shown is that the trend of the first week, where teams chasing won the matches, has slowly changed. Teams batting first are now winning games if they put up a big score on the board.

 
 
 
 
 If they get off to a flier, then there is a good chance of them getting close to 200. That is often enough, as the chasing team is under pressure to keep up with the asking rate of nearly 10 runs an over. 
 
 
 
 
 If then the chasing team loses a couple of wickets, the rate can climb to 12 or above, and that again piles up pressure, for not too many people are capable of taking their team over the line.
 
 
  
  
 
 MS Dhoni came very near to doing that against the Kings XI Punjab. His blistering attack fell just short but what a thrill it was to see him hit those big sixes. So the Chennai team's winning start has been halted but   keep on winning and have made an impressive start to their season.
 
  haven't yet won a game and though they have been slow starters in the last few seasons of the  , they will be anxious to get on the points table as they are the only team so far without a point against their name.
 
 They will have to bat much better than they have so far. Their tactic of sending   to open worked brilliantly and with   and   also scoring quickly, they were in a good position to post more than 200. 
 
 However, the middle order let them down by poor shot selection. Teams now know not to bring a spinner on when   is batting, for he can smash them out of the ground. However, he does not find the seamers that easy to belt and so he will be confronted by most captains. Mumbai also must look at their tactic of bringing him on when the field restrictions are in place, for he can be expensive than his brother.
 
 Krunal has been impressive with his canny left arm spinners and down the order he keeps his cool and get runs at a good clip without hitting the big sixes that his younger brother hits.
 
 The Bangalore team made a spirited chase of the Rajasthan total but once Kohli and de Villiers went in quick succession, they knew it was going to be too big a mountain to climb. 
 
 They have a top four that is the envy of most other teams but they haven't as yet got the runs from them that will take them to victories. Kohli and de Villiers both love batting at the Wankhede and if they get going then Mumbai may have to wait for their points a bit longer.
 
