Bhopal: In a bid to win over the tendu leaf pluckers and state government employees, the state cabinet on Tuesday approved an accident assistance scheme for those involved in tendu leaf collection and payment of retirement-cum-death benefit under National Pension Scheme (NPS) to   who die in service. 

 The tendu leaf collectors — who constitute a sizable population in rural Madhya Pradesh have long been demanding assistance from the state government. Under the Mukhya Mantri Tendupatta Sangrahak Kalyan Durghatna Sahayta Yojana (Chief Minister’s Tendupatta Collectors’ Welfare Accident Assistance Scheme) in case of accidental death, family of a tendu patta collector would be given Rs 2 lakh by the state government as compensation.
 
 “Previously, lives of tendu patta collectors were insured. But, it has been observed that it was a tedious procedure and claim settlements took a long time. Hence, the government has decided that it will directly pay compensation to the family,” said minister for water resources and government spokesperson Narottam Mishra. The cabinet headed by chief minister   gave its consent for expenditure of Rs 12.45 crore for the scheme from fiscal year 2017-18 to 2019-20.
 
 For state government employees appointed under the civil services rules of the state government on January 1, 2005 or later in case of death in harness, retirement gratuity would be paid to government employees plus retirement gratuity under the provisions of rule 44 of Madhya Pradesh Civil Services (Pension) Rule 1976.
 
 The government also approved creation of new offices and 84 posts of malaria officers in district headquarters at Burhanpur, Anuppur, Ashoknagar and Agar-Malwa.
 
 The cabinet also gave its nod to setting up of hostels in 41 district headquarters under the school education department to provide better education opportunities to students of rural areas. Rs 52.42 crore has been sanctioned for providing free meals and residential arrangements this year in hostels, besides Rs 384.64 crore has been granted for continuation of the scheme for the next three years.
 
 In another decision, Rs 9.72 crore has been approved to complete construction of incomplete school buildings from 2017-18 to 2018-19 under the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. The government also granted approval for continuation of the ‘Vidhyarthi Kalyan Sahayta Yojana’ being conducted by the Scheduled Caste welfare department from 2017-18 to 2019-20.
 
 The cabinet granted administrative approval to Ban Sagar Group Water Supply Scheme costing Rs 106.43 crore based on surface water source (Son river) of Shahdol district. This would help in providing potable water to 61 villages of Byohari block through pipeline connections. Moreover, approval was given for continuation of current Central   for investment in water supply schemes being implemented by the Madhya Pradesh Jal Nigam under the public health engineering department till March 31, 2020. Besides, approval was given for continuation of Mukhya Mantri Gramin Payjal Karyakaram and the period of Central Finance Commission till March 31, 2020.
 
 
