MUMBAI:   have spent only 38% of funds released to them in 2017-18 with just two months left for the end of the financial year, official data shows. The percentage of fund usage for the two previous years was higher by this time of the year.

 The state had allocated Rs 3.69 lakh crore to government   at the beginning of the financial year in April 2017. Of this, Rs 1.4 lakh crore was the actual   in the treasury. This accounts for 38% of the total. The departments with lowest fund utilization so far are housing (4.4%), environment (4.6%), public works (8.4%), water resources (9.7%), food and civil supplies (9.8%) and minorities development (13.2%).
 
 But officials say treasury expenses do not reflect the entire picture. They do not reflect proposed expenses where bills have not yet been submitted, or expenses of departments like public works and irrigation which draw direct cheques. Also, the state’s   Estimation Allocation and Monitoring System (BEAMS) displays current data, while actual expenses are uploaded only at intervals.
 
 Broader data on the BEAMS portal shows the current fund utilization by departments to be 43.3% of the budget allocated. But last year, fund utilization by January was 51.8% and in 2015-16, it was 52.3%. 
 
 Officials say the lowered fund usage by departments this year compared to the last two years needs to be seen in comparison with the size of the budget. “In absolute terms, fund utilization has increased this year. Since the budget size is larger, the percentage is lower,” said a senior finance official. In 2016-17, the budget allocated till January that year was 2.93 lakh crore, of which 15.2 lakh crore was utilised by departments. In 2017-18, the budget allocated till January was 3.69 lakh crore, of which 1.6 lakh crore was utilized by departments.
 
 The state’s funds have faced immense pressure over the last year on account of the loan waiver and state compensation to municipal corporations on account of GST. Last July, after the waiver was announced, the state imposed a 30% cut on revenue expenditure and a 20% cut on capital expenditure.
 
 But finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar says there have been no major cuts on funds released to departments. Also, usage by departments reflects the usual trend. “We released 70% of the funds by the beginning of the year. Typically, most departments utilize bulk of their funds in the last three months. Usually, there are fund cuts of at least 15-20% There is not much change in that trend,” he said.
 
 
