NEW DELHI: The   on Tuesday claimed fugitive  's last exit from India was in July 2013 when UPA-2 was in power, contradicting the Congress’s allegations that the current dispensation had helped the   chairman escape the country. 

 “Congress is speaking blatant lies. Advances to Mehta were granted between September 2010 and March 2013 during the Congress-led   government. And his last entry and exit into India was on July 25, 2013, and everyone knows who was in power at that time,” Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri said at a press conference.
 
 Puri reeled out details showing that loans of over Rs 6,000 crore were given to Mehta during the UPA’s two terms under Manmohan Singh. 
 
 The minister said Mehta acquired nationality of St Kitts and Nevis on November 10, 2012, but travelled to India on an Indian passport four times after that till February 2013. He travelled eight times on a St Kitts and Nevis passport as an OCI card holder between February 2013 and July 2013, the minister said.
 
 
  
 
 Puri claimed that after the loans to Mehta’s company had been declared NPAs, he renounced his Indian passport, which could not happen without government knowledge, implying that   was complicit in helping him flee the country. On March 1, Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala had alleged that the Modi government helped Mehta flee the country. 
 
 Puri said the diamond baron illegally acquired a passport of St Kitts, an island country in the Caribbean, in November 2012 without renouncing his Indian citizenship and travelled to India on both passports during the Congress-led government's tenure. 
 
 “Mehta travelled to India on four occasions on his Indian passport after November 2012 and eight times in 2013 on passport of St Kitts, but every time it was intentionally overlooked by the then party in power,” BJP spokesperson GVL Narasimha Rao said.
 
 Rao said the Congress not only allowed Mehta to ran away from the country but also helped him to do so. It was the BJP-led NDA government which unearthed this “fraud” in December 2014 and declared him a “wilful defaulter” in December 2016.
 
 “The Congress did nothing to check this mess in the banking system, but during our government we ensured that complaints were filed in this case and six FIRs were registered in April 2017 against Mehta and his companies,” Rao said.
 
 
