The annual Rose Parade held on New Year’s Day in Pasadena, California, for the past 129 years will feature a float depicting Sikh tradition of '  sewa' (community kitchen).

 Formally called the 'Tournament of Roses', the parade attracts up to one million visitors and is broadcast live across the US. The parade includes several colourful flower-covered floats, and one of these will be the Sikh American float, being featured for the fourth consecutive year.
 
 
 The theme of the Sikh American float, langar, will evoke the Sikh teachings of Sewa (selfless service). Elaborating on this, one of the many community members involved in the project and responsible for the float’s entry for the fourth year, Bhajneet Singh said: “Growing up in California, it was always a dream to see a Sikh float in the Tournament of Roses Parade. The theme of Langar really speaks of the values of Sikhism and the work that we are doing to help our communities every day here in California and across the world”.
 
 Indeed, the Southern California Sikh community’s actions stress on the importance of langar as they feed thousands of people across Los Angeles every month. Singh explains, “From the Khalsa Food Pantry every Friday evening to the monthly barbeques and visits to  , we are constantly trying to bring langar to those most in need. We are excited as millions of Americans will learn more about this important aspect of Sikhism during the Rose Parade. The dishes include, chole, paneer, rice and gulab jamun as sweet dish."
 
 Taking inspiration from the world’s largest free kitchen, the float wall feature brick walls, a marbled dome roof and scalloped arches to replicate those found at the Golden Temple, Amritsar.
 
 In addition to the langar theme, the float will house 90,959 flowers. There will also be 500 pounds of vegetables on the float to represent the meals found in a Langar Hall. Singh adds, “Our Punjabi traditions are always an important part of the float design and will be showcased in the food, colors and riders that join the float”. The float will visually transport spectators back to  , the Sikh Coalition said.
 
 The Sikh design concept and initial implementation started months ago, but it is the work of hundreds of volunteers in the week leading up to January 1 that bring the float to life.
 
 Harbinder Kaur, one of the volunteer says, “We are happy to take part in the parade and be a part of this celebratory occasion. It doesn’t matter what colour you are, what religion you are, everybody here is with big smile and it’s all about love which is exciting to see.”
 
 Singh explains the importance of having a Sikh American float in the Rose Parade, “Sikhs have been an integral part of the American fabric for generations, but we still have a lot of work to do to educate the American public about who we are. We know this is a great way to raise awareness and reach millions of Americans. It brings the local Sikh community together and opens doors to interacting with other Rose Parade organisations that build lifelong partnerships.”
 
