The 36-year-old wait is finally over and Peru are again going to a World Cup after their outing in 1982. Throughout the qualifiers, last-minute equalizers, defensive performances and comebacks placed them at fifth on the CONCACAF table ahead of Chile on goal difference. They then had to take on a challenge from New Zealand to put an end to the wait and when the occasion arrived, they grabbed it with both hands, winning 2-0 on aggregate. The only blip in preparation is their captain and key player Paolo Guerrero’s ban for failing a dope test. But in spite of that, it will be interesting to see if they can pull off any upset.

 
 
  
 Morocco are back among the elites after an absence of 20 years. But their success in the qualifiers wasn’t any surprise. They have slowly but steadily become the powerhouse of African football. They booked a World Cup berth after defeating Ivory Coast. But interestingly, only one player out of their starting 11 has been born in Morocco. The players come from countries like France, Netherlands and Spain where their parents migrated to. In Group B, they await tough tests from Portugal and Spain but the Atlas Lions have the firepower to put up a good fight.
 
 
  
 
 
 It was the 88th minute of the match between Panama and Costa Rica. There was no shortage of drama at the Estadio Rommel Fernandez that night. Costa Rica had taken the lead in the 37th minute of the game but Panama were awarded a controversial ‘ghost’ goal to help them draw level. But two minutes from the final whistle, nothing else mattered. The celebration began the moment the ball went into the Costa Rican goal and the scorer, Roman Torres, ripped off his shirt and swirled it around his head. In Group G, along with Belgium, England and Tunisia, Panama will need a miracle to make it out of the first stage.
 
 
  
 Iceland’s run at the Euro 2016 had been nothing short of a modern day fairytale. The smallest country to qualify for the event, Iceland made it to the quarterfinals humiliating England along the way. Their Vikings thunderclap became as famous as their success in the tournament. But Iceland proved that they were not just a one-tournament feel-good movie when they eclipsed their performance in the Euro to book a ticket to Russia. Clubbed in the Group of Death with Argentina, Croatia and Nigeria, Iceland will hope to have a dream debut on the world stage.
 
  
