GHAZIABAD: In a dark and dingy room without any ventilation and a lone ceiling fan, five to six workers weave metres of clothing material as if performing a drill. Sweat drips from their faces on a wintry Friday morning and the only sound that fills the air is the whirr of the weaving machines.

 Oblivious to an outsider’s presence, the workers continue with their job — tantalisingly close to the machines — without any safety gear. None here has heard of any safety measures, none has ever been given any helmet, uniform or gloves. They come to work wearing loose clothes like shawls and lungis — potential hazards because of the possibility of them getting entangled in the looms. “This is how we work,” one of them says, sitting beside a cluster of electric wires dangling from the wall.
 
 Similar is the scene in the 500-odd   dotting  , home to a 5,000-strong workforce employed in the factories. Over the past few days, the power looms here have seen at least four deaths under mysterious circumstances. The deaths have triggered a flurry of questions on the   in these looms — concentrated around Vijay Mandi, Agrasen Market, Mamta Wali Gali and Gandhi Colony.
 
 Each worker in these tiny factories handles at least four weaving machines, double that specified under the labour laws. The workers complain that despite slogging 12 hours daily for six days a week, they take home Rs 8,000 each at the end of the month.
 
 Most of the looms in Muradnagar function out of private houses. The common set-up is that the owner lives on the upper floors while the ground floor is earmarked for the workshop. Registration of the factories is unheard to most. To avoid coming under the provisions of the factory and labour laws, the loom owners have divided one big set-up into smaller units having 10-12 workers in each. In a majority of the cases, each family has three to four members who own small power looms each.
 
 According to officials, dividing the factories helps the owners save on giving PF, gratuity, insurance and other monetary benefits to the workers. At least 20 workers are required in a factory to make such benefits mandatory. 
 
 Sunil Kumar (35), who has been working in power looms for the past 20 years, said: “It is a hazardous situation here. Wires, which should ideally be laid underground, are all over the floor. Anyone can trip and fall into the running machines, anyone can get electric shocks. There is no one to even switch off the power in case of an accident. The rooms are so dingy and dark that we cannot see each other. Imagine the heat here during the summers.”
 
 Each worker is paid according to the length of the cloth he has woven in a day, which hovers around Rs 200-300. The workers get paid on a weekly basis, mostly on Sundays. 
 
 “The power loom owners follow a hire and fire policy. There is nobody to object as most of the factories are unregistered. After demonetisation, we thought we would be paid in our bank accounts, but nothing of that sort happened,” said Raeesuddin (32), who has been in the profession for past 12 years.
 
 Many of the electric connections running the looms are illegal. Since the owners care little about paying for the power, they give minimal attention to maintaining a safe environment in the workshops. The workers blame the four recent deaths on the hazardous working conditions. “Many of the machines are quite old and lack safety covers. They should have discarded long back,” said Babu Khan, a member of the Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh.
 
 A power loom owner was booked on Thursday in connection with the latest of the four deaths in the Muradnagar workshops. Around two weeks ago, a woman named Kiran (38) had died in a factory apparently after her sari got entangled into a running machine. A few days later, another worker, Somnath, had tumbled down the stairs to death, reportedly under the influence of alcohol. In early January, Nazeem had died in one of the workshops after the loose end of his cloth got entangled in a machine. Controversy, however, shrouds the fourth death.
 
 Pankaj Singh Rana, the deputy labour commissioner of Ghaziabad, said: “We face difficulty in implementing the labour laws as the factories do not have the requisite workforce” Rana said a team would soon plan an inspection of the power looms.
 
 Shiv Kumar Gupta, the president of the Handloom Powerloom Association and owner of a manufacturing unit, denied the claims of the workers. “In 90% of the cases, it is the labourers’ fault. They come to work drunk and do not follow the safety norms. There is a huge shortage of workforce, so we cannot even ask them to go back home,” he said.
 
 
