CHANDIGARH: The controversy over invitation to convicted   terrorist Jaspal Atwal to events organized for visiting Canadian Prime Minister Justin   has revived political debate over the blacklist maintained by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA).

 President of   (DSGMC) Manjit Singh GK has sought that the blacklist should be scrapped and if need be the state agencies could arrest any accused on his arrival to the country. “The names of political Sikh refugees during the dark days of Punjab are mentioned in this list. DSGMC has tried many times to have names removed from the blacklist. But whenever information about the black list was sought from the MHA through RTI Act by DSGMC, no reply was received,” said GK, who leads the Delhi unit of   (SAD).
 
 “Many Sikhs immigrated abroad in the 80s and 90s and their names have been put on the blacklist. The BJP has pruned the list, but many of those still on it are now old and ailing. The list is being maintained in a whimsical way by the agencies and it is also being used as a tool by embassy’s to keep visas of Punjabis pending,” he added.
 
 “There is a small fraction of the Punjabi community in Canada who vocally supports the   campaign and most of the campaign is on social media. The BJP government at the Centre should go the distance and reach out to the community by taking steps such as scrapping the blacklist,” he added.
 
 Aam Aadmi Party leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira also said that the blacklist should be reviewed to ensure that there was no bad blood among the Punjabi NRIs. “Whenever I travel abroad, I get complaints that many names have been added to the blacklist for even small issues like holding a protest against Operation Bluestar or Sikh riots,” he said.
 
 However, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar called it an unnecessary controversy. “The blacklist is reviewed from time to time. By raking up such issues, attention is being given to the fringe elements for no reason. The chief minister received the visiting Canadian prime minister with warmth in Amritsar. The focus should be on issues of mutual interest for Punjab and Canada,” he said.
 
 In October, 2017, Union home minister Rajnath Singh had announced that the Centre had lifted the travel ban on more than 100 NRI Sikhs, who were blacklisted for their alleged ties with the Khalistan movement.
 
 ‘225 names dropped from negative list’
 
 In reply to a starred question in Rajya Sabha by SAD MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa in 2016, Union home minister Rajnath Singh had said, “Names of foreign nationals and foreigners of Indian origin who are found to have indulged in anti-India activities. Such persons are barred from entering into India for specified time period. The negative list is reviewed from time to time as per established procedure in consultation with the concerned agencies. Recently, the government reviewed cases of foreign nationals of Indian origin in the negative list and decided to delete the names of 225 such persons from it.”
 
 
