GANDHINAGAR: While the young turks played a significant role in bettering the   tally in Gujarat polls last year,  , one of the most vocal leader, is apparently less than happy with the party.
 
  Patel’s displeasure stems from the fact that while the Congress rode the disaffection of the Patidar community all along the campaign, it has not made any sound on the issue in the ongoing budget session in the state assembly. The Congress going cold on the issue post-election will severely impact Hardik’s career as he had clearly sided with the party ahead of the election and reportedly set to join the party once he turns 25.
  
  Recently, Hardik targeted the Congress for not taking up the issues of Patidar youths who died in police action during an agitation or those of sedition cases slapped on the agitators in the assembly. He also questioned the silence of the leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani in this regard.
  
  It may be mentioned here that Patel had backed Dhanani, the young Patidar leader from Amreli as the leader of opposition after the election, much to the chagrin of senior Congress leaders like Kunvarji Babaliya, who also had thrown his hat in the ring for the coveted position.
  
  However, on a different social media platform, Hardik also had clarified that he is not a member of any political party but that he supports Congress. He claimed that he “likes” Congress president   and believes that Gandhi “loves the country”.
  
  Sources in the know of developments maintain that while the Congress had used the appeal of Hardik Patel to the maximum ahead of   last year, the Patidar issue, which had assumed a major political overtone has gone cold for the time being.
  
  “On the ground, nothing has really changed and the discontent of the people remain where they were,” said Purvin Patel, a senior member of  . “But the agitation has lost steam for sure,” he said, adding that the process has also seen some erosion in the popularity of Hardik, who had openly sided with the Congress with many of his team joining the Congress and reaping the benefit of the agitation.
  
  Observers maintain that while Hardik is more than likely to join Congress ahead of 2019 Loksabha Election, drumming up the Patidar issue all over again to gain his lost ground will be an uphill task.
  
