In the latest episode of  , Naksh and Kirti return home while Kartik and Naira are on their way. Savita gets anxious and says they should not wait for them as the mahurat is going to end soon. Manish opposes and says he won't let the engagement take place till Naira and Kartik come back.

 
 Naira and Kartik think of a way to reveal Suhana's truth in front of the family with the help of the photo. They get a call from Manish and Dadi asking if things were okay at their end. Savita says that Suhana and Shubham should just exchange rings as the time is nearing. Dadi agrees. Manish asks them to wait for Naira and Kartik but Dadi says the engagement had to be done right away.
 
 Suhana is happy about Naira's abscence. The ceremony begins. Kartik and Naira come home. Kartik says that he will interrogate Suhana and see what she has to say in her defence. 
 
 As Shubham and Suhana exchange rings, Suhana hears Brijesh, the patient's voice calling her Ruby. Brijesh runs away from the hospital and hides in Naira and Kartik's car. She gets shocked. Brijesh and Suhana come face to face.
 
  
  
 Naira and Kartik ask Suhana to speak up. Shubham gets confused and asks her about Brijesh calling her Ruby. Brijesh says that he was married to her but she left him one day. Kartik tells the family that he found Brijesh in the hospital with Suhana's photo. Naira tells them it was the same guy who came searching for a girl named Ruby during Holi festivities.
 
 When Aryan questions her, Suhana says the photo was real but it was from one of her shows when she was dressed up as a bride. Rahul also supports her in the lie. The doctor from the hospital comes and takes Brijesh away, saying he is mentally ill.
 
 Once Brijesh is taken away, Suhana accuses Naira of plotting against her. Savita asks Manish and Swarna to break the marriage if they want. As they prepare to leave, Shubham holds Suhana's hand and stops her. He says that he will always trust Suhana no matter what.
 
 
 Manish walks away. Swarna is very upset after the incident and says that she never expected Kartik and Naira to do such a thing. They apologise to her. Swarna says that she will get Shubham and Suhana married even if everybody is against them. 
 
