MOHALI: Ram Nath Kovind, the   of India heaped praise on budding women scientists who have achieved laurels at national level.   said this while addressing the 7th convocation of the   ( ),   on Sunday. He later on conferred degrees to 152 BS-MS, BS and PhD students on Sunday.

 The President said that despite being a young institution, IISER holds great importance as a centre of higher education and research in the country.
 
 “This institute has rapidly gained reputation as one of the foremost destination for students and faculty pursuing advanced scientific education in northern India. Furthermore, it is well on its way to fulfilling the mandate of promoting and providing facilities for basic science research and integrating these with the needs of India and society as a whole,” he said.
 
 Lauding the graduating girls for opting career as a scientist, Kovind said that it gives immense pleasure that out of the total 152 students, 66 are girls constituting 40 percent of the total strength.
 
 “I have noticed that 66 girls have secured an undergraduate, master’s or PhD degree and this ratio of girls is a little over 40 per cent. Moreover, both the gold medals for academic excellence have been bagged by girls and three of the four awards for achievement in academics have been won by girl students. This performance showcased by our daughters is commendable and is gradually becoming a trend nationwide. The women are consistently outscoring their male counterparts. It is a step closer to the cause of gender equality and transforming India into a developed society. I congratulate the girls present here and the IISER Mohali community as a whole on this achievement,” said Kovind.
 
 The President further said that Mohali has become a hub of economical, information technology, biotechnology and bioinformatics knowledge and related fields. Therefore, it is critical that we do not just see IISER as a standalone institution but as the fulcrum of an entire ecosystem. The institution must grow and develop in this way.
 
 While encouraging the students Kovind said that IISER must strive to play a role in Mohali and neighboring cities similar to Silicon Valley in California. While urging the passing out students, he said, “You will now enter a world buzzing with opportunities. As you build your professional careers, remember those who have stood by you and give back to society especially the less privileged in in whichever manner you deem fit.”
 
 Suggesting a plan for IISER, the President said that science and technology plays a pivotal role in nation-building and resolving developmental issues. “The questions before us range from battling climate change to providing low-cost but effective healthcare solutions. We must help farmers overcome productivity and water-scarcity and build sustainable cities that are socially inclusive and provide a life of dignity to the every family. The institute and its branches must immerse itself in these tasks,” he added.
 
 The President also stated that science and technology have a symbiotic relationship with business and industry. “Product invention, process innovation, applying lab knowledge for commercially viable products, technology to promote efficiency, enterprise and employment are some tasks in which IISER must spearhead its research,” said the president. The President said that institutions of scientific education and research are important for blue-sky innovation and expanding the frontiers of knowledge. “Scientific research and education generate an instinct of curiosity which at the root of our civilisation. This route requires patience as the history of science tells us. It is the fundamental and critical value of scientific research. The President urged students to keep these three motivating points in mind as they succeed. “These three motivators of science and research will help you to serve fellow citizens, society, country and larger cause of humanity in its own way.
 
 
