MUMBAI: The   on Wednesday nominated Dr  , the chancellor at Bond University in Queensland and a former judge of the Federal Court of Australia, to argue the board’s case in the dispute arising out of the absence of any bilateral cricket between India and Pakistan.

 
 The   has appointed Hon Michael Beloff QC, an English barrister and a member of Blackstone Chambers, to chair a dispute panel that has been put in place to look into the matter. The   (PCB) has in recent years blamed the BCCI for non-participation in bilateral cricket and has also complained about ‘massive losses’ incurred.
 
 India and Pakistan last played a Test series back in 2007 and a One-day bilateral series back in 2013. The two neighbours have clashed with each other in these last five years only during ICC and Asian Cricket Council (ACC) tournaments.
 
 The Pakistan board has nominated Jan Paulson, a scholar and practitioner in international arbitration, to represent them at the hearing.
 
 The hearing will take place in Dubai from October 1-3 and the decision of the dispute panel will be binding on all parties, reports said. The hearing will be held under the English law and the nominations have been finalised accordingly.
 
 The BCCI maintains that it has been in constant touch with the central government on matters related to playing cricket in Pakistan and it is not a decision which rests in their hands. “We haven’t heard from the government and we’ve said the same thing in the past, when we wrote to the PCB. It’s a diplomatic concern which needs to be resolved by the (India and Pak) governments and only then can cricket boards be given any kind of a go-ahead,” BCCI sources told TOI.
 
 Former Pakistan cricket board chairman Shaharyar Khan made it clear in October last year that Pakistan’s case – in the present dispute – is a weak one and is unlikely to get compensation. Pakistan had sought US$70m in compensation from BCCI but Khan maintained that BCCI was right in maintaining that it couldn’t play cricket with the neighbour until government clearance.
 
