Actor  , known for films like 'Ankhon Dekhi' and 'Masaan' will soon begin shooting for Tigmanshu Dhulia's 'Milan Talkies' in Lucknow. Mishra, who was in the city recently for an event, talked about how he’s looking forward to being in Lucknow again and how he loves to play a UPite in most of his films.

 The ' ' actor, who has been coming to the city regularly, loves the place. "Lucknow is one of my favourite cities," he says, adding, "Yahan ki ek tehzeeb hai ek bhasha hai. But I am not sure till when that can be retained. Lucknow is losing its essence and its tehzeeb slowly. The problem is that a lot development is taking place here but the old character of the city is not being retained. Every city changes with time par sab thoda tehzeeb ke saath badle toh accha hai. What will happen if there remains no difference in Lucknow and  ? Har sheher ki apni ek pehchaan hai, khaaskar kuchh shehron ki jaise Banaras, Lucknow, Jaipur, Jodhpur. Toh agar hum sheher ki pehchaan hi mita denge toh yeh acchi baat nahi hai, it’s sad. Theek hai Metro hai, jansuvidha ke liye badhiya cheez hai lekin sheher jo nazaakat hai, jo Lucknow ka essence hai woh hona chahiye. Jitni bhi heritage buildings hain, unki ek maryada hai, nahi toh koi kyun aayega Lucknow?" he avers.
 
 All set to begin shooting for  's next in the city, the Golmaal actor says he is excited at the prospect of coming to the city again. “Lucknow ka khaana kamaal hai, lovely food, bilkul bawaal, matlab kya bolu. Main wait kar raha hun ki kab Lucknow jaana hai.”
 
  
  Sanjay Mishra in Gomti Nagar, Lucknow (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 Talking about the film, Mishra shares, "Tigmanshu was my batch mate, my room partner in NSD, and we spent three years together. This is a very old project of his where I am doing a guest appearance."
 
 The versatile actor, who was born in Darbhanga in  , but spent his childhood in Varanasi has enacted roles of a UPite in most films. "Since my Hindi is good, people tend to cast me in roles of a UP wallah. But I have no problems in playing the roles. I love to play a UPite in my films. I am a UP wallah in a way, having spent most of my life in Varanasi," says the actor who will now be seen in ' ,' which has garnered much appreciation worldwide in various film festivals.
 
  — Abhishek.Shukla2@timesgroup.com
 
 
