NEW DELHI: Though South Delhi Municipal Corporation claims not to have any knowledge about a rubber storehouse operating in  , it said on Wednesday that it will initiate an inquiry and punish the owners of the facility under the Delhi Municipal Act if they were found to be violating the rules. Coincidentally, just a month before the massive fire in a rubber storehouse, area   Pooja Jakhar had written to the civic body and Delhi Police cautioning about hazardous commercial activities in residential colonies.

 On April 18,   member Jakhar had written, “Fire incidents are increasing and these incidents, as described by the residents, are due to tremendous commercial activities going on all around the colony, like plastic factories and godowns, motor garages, ghee and oil godowns and agencies. Several kabaddiwalas are involved in garbage collection. Their huge godowns and kitchen of restaurants are set up in the colony using gas cylinders without maintaining security measures.”
 
 The letter asked, “Under which act and law of SDMC and National Green Tribunal are these commercial activities running on this large scale in a residential colony?”
 
 SDMC officials announced a survey to be conducted by zonal officials in areas under their jurisdiction to determine how many such illegal establishments exist. 
 
 They promised action against defaulters. A senior civic official assured, “We will carry out a drive to detect the illegal establishments running in residential colonies and take punitive action against them.” He added that ever since the building plan approval and licensing systems went online, municipal officials are now allowed to make site visits in person unless there is a request for an inspection.
 
 The officials also claimed that staff shortage did now allow regular monitoring. Under the Delhi Municipal Act, the civic body can seal illegally used premises and impose a hefty fine on their owners.
 
 The residents of Malviya Nagar alleged that the corporation had never acted to stop the operations of the rubber storehouse. Roop Singh, president of the Gupta Colony RWA, said that a commercial warehouse was not allowed to operate from a residential area. “However, not only has the corporation not taken action, but also claimed to have no idea about the rubber godown,” Singh said. “We were lucky that the fire was contained but it continues to be a future danger.”
 
 
