Not long ago, the Maharashtra Public Universities Act 2016 had invited the wrath of students who found its ‘pro-student’ tag a little alarming considering there was no student representation in the decision-making process of the university. While Maharashtra is on the verge of re-introducing the student body elections, probably in the next academic year, students of the Savitribai Phule Pune University ( ) had expressed concern over the lack of inclusion of students in the University senate. However, in a welcome move, the students won’t be deprived of their right to contribute to university’s decision making anymore.

 SPPU has announced the students’ council election wherein 15 members selected from among the University Representatives (UR) across all colleges under SPPU will vote for the president and secretary positions to give a voice to students in the senate. SPPU has colleges from Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar districts affiliated to it.
 
 
 
 
 Prabhakar Desai, Director Board of Students Welfare, SPPU, informed, “Each college can select a university representative (UR) based on the student’s academic, cultural and sports performances. After scrutiny at the varsity level, top 15 students will be selected. The election for the posts of president and secretary will result in student representation in the senate and other decision making bodies.”
 
 The election procedure will start from January 21 and students will be able to file nomination for both the posts. “We have issued a notification where all dates regarding the nomination, withdrawal of nomination and elections are mentioned. The election will be conducted on February 1, followed by counting of votes.”
 
 Many student organisations are also trying to field students who are aligned with them, for this election. Kiran Sali, from such an organisation, said, “These students are selected based on their academic, cultural and sports merit. Hence there is no direct political influence involved. However, student organisations try to woo prospective candidates to join their organisation so as to have some amount of influence in the senate.”
 
 Satish Gore, from another student organisation agreed and added, “Whichever student is aligned to our organisation will have our complete support. There is hardly any organisation that won’t want a strong presence in the university decision making process.”
 
 Despite this development, there is a pressing concern over the limited tenure of these representatives. According to students, one year is not enough to bring about a change. “They are conducting council elections in January which leaves very few months to do anything before the academic year ends. In this period, there will only be one senate meeting conducted, which is not sufficient to understand the process either,” said Gore.
 
 Kalpesh Yadav, member of another student organisation, shared, “The election should be held in the first few months of the academic year so that the elected students will have sufficient time to understand the process and contribute towards change.”
 
 Though it is an opportunity for students to contest election, the URs decide selection over election. “As per the norms, if the council member/ URs decide among themselves and choose the president and secretary, then there won’t be an election. Only if they fail to reach a consensus, will there be an election,” said Desai.
 
