
CHENNAI/COIMBATORE: Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s statement in Singapore on Sunday that he and his sister (Priyanka Gandhi) have “forgiven” the assassins of their father and former Prime Minister   has received mixed reactions from politicians in Tamil Nadu. Nevertheless, this has opened the possibility for an early release of the convicts sentenced in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case and undergoing imprisonment for decades. 
 
 While the Congress has termed it as showing “his big heart”, the BJP leaders from the state have slammed it, even as Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said the state government would explore legal options for release of the convicts.
  
 “We will go by the law. We cannot release anyone from the prison in violation of law. We will explore the legal options if they can be released and take a decision accordingly,” EPS said, talking to reporters in Coimbatore on Sunday. However, he said, it was not possible to fix a deadline for exploring the legal options.
 
 
 “We have to study the options available as per law. Only then we can take a call on the issue,” he said. The AIADMK had in 2011 passed a resolution in the state assembly recommending the commutation of the death sentence to Murugan, Santhan and Perarivalan, all of whom were convicted in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. In 2014, the then chief minister   went a step ahead and said the state government would release the three convicts from the prison even if the Centre did not approve the decision. “The chief minister has already said that we would abide by law of the land. I share the same view. If law permits, we will explore options for releasing the convicts,” said state rural development minister S P Velumani.
 
 Reacting to the Congress president’s remark, Arputhammal, the mother of one of the convicts, Perarivalan, expressed happiness. “I feel happy. It gives me happiness that   has said this after 27 years,” she said, reacting to the media, on Rahul’s statement in Singapore.
 
 “That shows his big heart and it will be welcomed by all sections of Tamil people,” former TNCC president E V K S Elangovan told TOI. When asked further whether this could pave the way for an early release of the convicts, sentenced in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, he said, “That is up to the court and the government to decide.”
 
 However, BJP Rajya Sabha MP and senior leader of the party L Ganesan termed Rahul Gandhi’s remark as not acceptable. “These were the people who were against the mercy petitions during the Congress regime. Whoever forgives, a final decision can only be taken by the court and the President (of India),” Ganesan told reporters in Puducherry.
 
 BJP state president Tamilisai Soundararajan too slammed Rahul Gandhi, saying his remarks came too late. “If this feeling was expressed in action, it could have prevented killing lakhs and lakhs of innocent Tamil lives by the then Srilankan government with the support of then Congress government. You are pardoning? Or politicizing now?,” Tamilisai tweeted on her Twitter handle on Sunday.
 
 DMK Rajya Sabha MP Tiruchi Siva said, “It has to be welcomed and the magnanimity should be appreciated.”
 
 
 
