GURUGRAM: The district administration on Thursday imposed   of the CrPC across the city to stop   that causes air pollution. 

 MCG has been instructed to ensure a strict ban on waste burning in the open, while pollution control board will carry out awareness programmes for farmers to prevent crop residue burning.
 
 Gurugram was the most polluted city in   on Wednesday as the air quality index (AQI) touched 366 (very poor). The AQI, however, came down to 220 (poor) on Thursday.
 
 “We are spreading awareness among farmers over increasing air pollution due to stubble burning. While there are hardly any cases of crop residue burning from the city, we sometimes get complaints from the outskirts of the city. We are, therefore, focussing on areas around the city as stubble burning anywhere has an impact on NCR,” a senior official of Haryana State Pollution Control Board told TOI. “We are quite positive that the ban on crop stubble burning will be enforced properly this time,” he added.
 
 MCG officials said they have already put special teams in place to check waste burning in the open across the city. “We will ensure strict action against anybody who is found to be violating the law as waste burning might lead to a further increase in air pollution,” said an MCG official.
 
 Farmers, on the other hand, expressed concern over the lack of proper mechanism to dispose of crop residue. 
 
 “Section 144 CrPC is not going to make any difference as we still don’t have any mechanism to destroy the stubble. We are already aware about the ill-effects of burning crop residue. However, we don’t have any option. We will have to burn the residue as we do every year,” said  , president of Bhartiya Kisan Union.
 
 Every year, stubble burning takes place in large parts of Punjab and Haryana in March and April. The farmers burn the crop residue in order to vacate the farm land for next season’s crop. However, stubble burning has been banned by the government as it causes severe air pollution.
 
 
