HASSAN: The tussle between district minister A Manju and Hassan deputy commissioner and district election officer Rohini Sindhurih as escalated, with the latter issuing notice to the minister, saying granting of bagar hukum land was an act of ‘bribery’ during elections.

 On April 7, Rohini wrote to the state chief election officer that Arkalgud tahsildar Prasanna Murthy had committed an offence under Representation of People Act (RPA) 1951 and district minister A Manju had violatedthe modelcodeof conduct.
 
 The action came on a complaint from BJP district president Yoga Ramesh on April 4 that the tahsildar, along with a case worker, colluded with the minster to issue land regularisation orders in favour of hundreds of families by back-dating and signing the proceedings and related documents after the declaration of elections on March 27. As the allegations suggested violation of the poll code and several sections of IPC, Sindhuri ordered an inquiry by the returning officer and assistant returning officer of Arkalgud constituency.
 
 It was claimed that the land regularisation committee headed by Manju met at the Arkalgud taluk office at 3pm on March 20 to decide on the orders. CCTV footage of thetalukoffice prima facieestablished that no such meeting took place; in fact, the minister did not visit the taluk office that day, the inquiry report said. Further, 1,093 applications have been falsely shown to be approved on February 24, March 3, March16 and March 20. No such approvals are mentioned in the proceedings of committee meetings, the deputy commissioner said in her letter to the poll officer.
 
 Sindhuri has issued notice to tahsildar Murthy, asking him to explain the actions that amount to an offence under the RPA 1951 and the Karnataka Civil Services (Conduct) Rules 1966, besides violating the election code of conduct. As Murthy was on deputation as assistant returning officer for Arakalgud constituency when he committed the offence, Sindhuri sought his suspension and police investigation into the offence.
 
 She added that the minister’s action amounted to bribery under IPC section 171B and was punishable under 171E with section 188 for violation of the poll code. Sindhuri has also sought the minister’s response.
 
 The minister was not available for comment.
 
