KOLKATA: With both   and   Class XII results out, Higher Secondary candidates are feeling the admission jitters.

  
  
 With HS results expected only after June 5, the major worry for most is whether they would be able to submit college admission forms in time, whether admission test dates for Bengal colleges would clash with that of colleges outside the state, and whether the marks would be enough for competing with students of ISC and CBSE, who traditionally get more marks.
 
 “The colleges that are in high demand will start issuing admission forms very soon because they fear that students from other boards who have already received their results will move out of the state if there is any delay in college admission,” said Sougata Basu, general secretary, West Bengal Government Teachers’ Association. “The HS results, on the other hand, are not likely before June 5. HS candidates who want to study honours courses are stressed out over whether they will be able to meet the admission dates to submit forms, even though those can be downloaded online.” One more point of concern, he added, could be the clashing exam dates. “CBSE and ISC students have secured very high marks. Many have bagged 100 per cent in a number of subjects. Not too many   will be able to compete, as the marking pattern is different. Colleges with few seats will most likely be filled up by students from other boards,” Basu added. Pointing out that the mental stress for students during this priod is very high, he said the time span between the Class XII results of each board should have been shorter.
 
 Sources said education minister   has convened a meeting at his Naktala home over the alleged delay in publishing results. While no one were willing to comment, it was leant that senior office-bearers of both the state secondary and higher secondary board are scheduled to attend the meeting.
 
 Shyamal Halder, father of HS examinee Sweta Halder, said: “Without the results, Sweta can’t decide which stream to get herself enrolled in. Sweta had science in her Plus-II. She wants to study nursing, but her WBJEE rank is average.” HS examinee Sauptik Mondal said: “This delay is unnerving. Even last year, the results were published in June, but we had been informed about the dates early.”
 
