NAGPUR: Education colleges under the regional joint director of higher education are up in arms after they were denied no objection certificates (NOCs) following inspection by local committees.

 The denial of NOCs means students wouldn’t be allowed to take admissions in BEd, MEd, BPEd and MPEd courses offered by these colleges. In just 8 days (between December 22 and 30, 2017), the joint director’s office had sent several teams to inspect 207 colleges under it.
 
 On Monday, a delegation of these colleges met joint director Jayaram   and demanded an inquiry into the blanket refusal of NOCs.
 
 In their representation, the colleges pointed out that the   were ambiguous and didn’t clearly highlight the deficiencies to be removed. The colleges also claimed that several inspection teams were even “clueless” about   ( ), the apex body regulating education colleges.
 
 The delegation under the banner of Maharashtra Unaided Education and Physical Education Colleges Seva Mandal alleged that the constitution of inspection committees in itself was “illegal”.
 
 The inspection teams were mostly drawn from among the teachers working at Vasantrao Naik Government Institute of Social Sciences and Arts, Government Institute of Teachers Education, Bhandara. “Barring 5 to 6 professors from  , none of the inspection team members had knowledge about education colleges. The committees had just one-member which was illegal,” the delegation submitted.
 
 Khobragade told TOI that nodal officers having four teachers in each team from government institutes, including education colleges, were appointed for the inspections.
 
 “The reports of 207 colleges were submitted to the director of higher education, Pune, while the colleges were sent letters regarding the recommendations by the inspection committees. The inspection teams checked appointment of principals, teachers, classrooms and information and communication technology (ICT) facilities.
 
 Refuting the charges, one of the inspection team members said training was provided to them before the assignment. “The government conducts training for inspection teams and only those confident of the job take up the task. We even carry a measuring tape as we know the specifications of classroom as mandated by the NCTE,” the member said.
 
 In their representation, the association demanded rethink on the recommendations by these inspection committees and grant of NOCs.
 
 “The inspection reports say 100% NCTE norms were not fulfilled. No institute in India can fulfil 100% norms, besides the observation was ambiguous as it doesn’t specify the deficiencies,” the association said.
 
 
