BENGALURU: Three days after energy minister D K Shivakumar announced there would be no dark days this summer and claimed the state was facing a power surplus, several parts of the city witnessed unscheduled load shedding. 

 Irate citizens took to social media to vent their anger and seek answers from Bescom as to when would electricity be restored.   were reported in Somasundarapalaya, HSR Layout, Kasturi Nagar, BTM Layout, Indiranagar, CV Raman Nagar and Jayanagar. Many people from these localities complained of being unable to reach the Bescom helpline, as it was constantly engaged. Even localities in the heart of the city like Chamarajpet, Chickpet and Basavanagudi were not spared of outages.
 
 Shivakumar had on Tuesday told the legislative council that the state is enjoying a power surplus and there would be no power shortage this summer. The minister had said the energy department was ready to meet the demand during summer.
 
 On the same day, P Rajendra Cholan, managing director of   (Bescom), said his company is sitting pretty with surplus power. He claimed that 5,500 MW was available while the Bescom’s peak demand is only around 4,200MW per day.
 
 The promises, however, seem to have fallen flat just in three days. A resident from Chamarajpet said the power went off around 7am, adding that she could not prepare breakfast and her kids were late for school.
 
 Bescom attributed the power cuts in Banaswadi, Indiranagar, Koramangala and surrounding areas to transmission and line faults. They also claimed that the power supply was restored.
 
 A Bescom official said the outage was due to technical reasons and the power was cut in several areas for maintenance. Another official said some localities such as HSR Layout, Koramangala and   have been identified as high-density areas where the growth in demand has been around 20% against the average 10% and it is natural that these localities witness power outage. He added that the power disruption could be due to transmission faults, but not distribution. 
 
 According to N Jayanthi, GM, customer relations, Bescom there was no power supply in HSR Layout due to emergency maintenance work.
 
 Tweets
 
 Sameer Padhi: There is no power in 13th cross 6th main, BTM 2nd stage. Can we please get information on when the power supply will be provided?
 
 Anand Kumar: No current in Jayanagar 9 block from past 12 hours! No current Bhagya when was it launched?
 
 
