KOCHI: The high   on Wednesday sought prosecution's views on an allegation that five persons named by   as attackers in his dying declaration were not included as accused. 

  
  
 
 Asking prosecution to respond to the allegation raised in the bail plea of the persons named as accused, the court has also directed for producing the statements recorded by the magistrate in the case. 
 
 A total of 12 persons accused in the case over lynching Madhu of   have sought bails before the high court.
 
 When the bail pleas were considered by the court on Wednesday, a counsel representing one of the accused argued that Madhu had named the persons who attacked him to police but those persons have not been made accused. The court sough the prosecution's views following the argument. The case will be heard again on Friday.
 
 A total of 16 persons were accused in the murder of the 27-year-old tribal youth on February 22 this year. They have been charged with murder in chargesheet filed by the police in   special court on Tuesday.
 
 The chargesheet, filed by the special investigation team headed by Agali DSP T K Subramaniyan, had also slapped the provisions of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, against the 16 accused, now lodged in Palakkad sub jail. It was filed exactly three months after the incident took place and contained scientific evidence and the statement of 165 witnesses.
 
 However, the chargesheet did not include the allegations against the role of the forest department officials who took the accused to the cave where Madhu stayed. The forest department is investigating the case separately and will file a separate chargesheet on the alleged involvement of the department officials in the special court, the police said.
 
 The chargesheet said the main accused in the murder case are Mecheriyil Hussain, Kilayil Marakkar, Pothuvachalayil Samsudeen, Thazhusheriyil Radhakrishnan, Viruthiyil Najeeb, Mannampathayil Jaijumon, Karikkalil Siddiq and Pothivacholayil Abubeckar.
 
  It said there were 15 injuries on the deceased Madhu's body. The police also included the details from eight mobile phones that had taken the pictures of Madhu before he was handed over to the police. The pictures from three CCTVs at   junction and the five vehicles used by the accused were included in the list of evidence.
 
 The starving youth, living in the forest for the last 15 years, was accused of stealing food from some shops at Mukkali by the local people, including some traders and drivers.
 
 
