NEW DELHI:   that deny   to a   with   due to over-booking are liable to compensate for deficiency of service, the country’s aviation regulator has said.

 In an unequivocal stand, the   ( ) and national carrier Air India recently told the Delhi high court that a passenger has the right to seek compensation in case of denial to fly due to over-booking, over and above its rules that provide slab-wise refund.
 
 The response by the two entities came on a petition filed by a lawyer questioning the 2010 DGCA rules that recognise the concept of over-booking by airlines.
 
 “A plain reading of paragraph 3.2 indicates that the DGCA has recognised that certain airlines follow the practice of over-booking flights. However, the same cannot be read to mean that the DGCA has permitted the airlines to do so. And, it certainly cannot mean that such practice has the sanction of law,” Justice Vibhu Bakhru noted while disposing of a petition filed by Pallav Mongia, through advocate Ashish Virmani, challenging the DGCA rules.
 
 HC was satisfied with the clear stand of DGCA and Air India that a passenger aggrieved by the action of an airline in denying a passenger boarding can approach civil and consumer courts to claim damages, in addition to the minimum damages prescribed under the DGCA regulations.
 
 DGCA added that its 2010 rules doesn’t put a cap on the compensation that can be demanded from the airline in cases of over-booking and a passenger has full right to approach a court for relief.
 
 The court recorded DGCA’s stand that its rules are meant to “ensure that the passengers who are denied boarding are paid immediate compensation and necessary arrangements for their travel are made by the airline concerned. This did not mean that the DGCA had permitted the airlines to adopt the said practices… and the petitioner’s right to claim compensation/damages was not restricted.”
 
 Mongia had been denied boarding by Air India in 2015 when he had a confirmed ticket. 
 
 On finding out that the airlines cited the DGCA rules while defending its decision not to allow him to fly, he challenged it before the HC. 
 
 He had also highlighted how passengers have no redressal in cases where airlines conveniently close check-in counters early, simply as a means to facilitate the unfair ‘denied boarding’ practice without earning the penalty of DGCA regulations.
 
 
