Chennai: At least three in five people in   have medical insurance, largely due to the state government’s decade-old tax-funded health   scheme. The rollout and running of the state-wide insurance scheme is a tale of ups and downs — and a possible case study for the Centre which has proposed to launch a nationwide scheme.

 The DMK government launched the   insurance scheme, ‘Kalignar kappittu thittam’ in 2008, which was rechristened chief minister’s health insurance scheme in 2012 when J Jayalalithaa became chief minister. “We faced several challenges in the rollout of the health insurance scheme as there weren’t many precedents,” said additional director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam.
 
 Tamil Nadu, which scores high on most healthcare indices, funds close to 16% of healthcare needs through its schemes. Healthcare services are offered free of cost in 22 government medical colleges besides district headquarters hospitals and nearly 1,800 primary health care centres. Funds from centrally-sponsored schemes such as universal vaccination programmes and funding through the national health mission contribute less than 5% towards health spending, but out-of-pocket expenses for people is 67.7%. The funding from the insurance scheme is a little more than 2%.
 
 When the state first launched the insurance scheme, it found that private hospitals were making more money than the state hospitals. “State hospitals were still overcrowded and doctors were doing the same number of surgeries, but they were not making the claims. In some cases, people chose private healthcare even though the government had the capability,” said Dr Selvavinayagam. They also received complaints about private hospitals taking additional payment from the patients.
 
 In 2012, the state revised the health scheme and reserved it only for public sector insurance companies. It removed common procedures such as delivery, family planning, cataract, and hernia. “We knew our hospitals were capable of doing this. We made it a policy to punish empanelled hospitals if they asked patients to pay. The scheme is cashless and the price is pre-fixed. All implants should be of international standards,” said state health secretary J Radhakrishnan.
 
 Several hospitals did not join the scheme. But after the policy promised to transfer money to the hospital within a week of raising the bill, the state registered about 800 empanelled hospitals. “Not all beds in a hospital are full. We use only the excess beds in private hospitals. They won’t come at a full price and hospitals didn’t mind if they did not get the usual price,” a senior health official said.
 
 Last year, when the state revised the scheme for a third time, it added two more clauses. One, the insurance company should return 90% of the premium it does not use after reserving 10% towards administration cost. Second, the state would compensate if the outflow of the insurance company was over 110% of the premium.
 
 The state pays Rs 699 per family for 1.47 crore families — about 4 crore people insured — for a   of Rs 2 lakh per year. For procedures such as organ transplant and cochlear implant that may cost more than Rs 2 lakh, the state pays the patients through a   it has created. “The corpus provides up to Rs 35 lakh for a heart-and-lung transplant,” said state health minister C Vijaya Baskar
 
 
