Coimbatore: While the suspended vice-chancellor of Bharathiar University, Dr A Ganapathi, is languishing in jail, many alleged victims of his abuse of official power are rallying against him outside, deposing against him before the investigation agency. On Saturday evening, six PhD holders who attended the interview for the post of assistant professors at Bharathiar University last year appeared before the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) at Kavundampalayam here and testified against Ganapathi, who was caught red-handed taking bribe from an assistant professor on probation to make his posting permanent. The six, who had in December last petitioned the district collector against Ganapathi, told DVAC sleuths that they were eligible candidates, but were denied the post by the jailed vice-chancellor. They also alleged that the university (authorities) had violated the reservation norms. Talking to TOI, Arul Meena, a candidate for the assistant professor, said deputy superintendent of police Dakshanamurthy had taken her statement. A PhD holder in Bioinformatics, she had attended an interview at Bharathiar University for the post of assistant professor (Bio-informatics) in 2016. One of the posts was allotted for schedule caste (arunthathiyar –woman) and in the absence of such a candidate next preference had to be given to SC (woman). “The SC(A) candidate did not attend the interview i was the only SC woman to attend the interview. They should have offered me the post, but in violation of reservation norms, the university vice-chancellor allotted the post to SC (A –men). The DAVC sleuths should conduct a thorough probe into the recruitment done by Ganapathi in 2016,” Arul Meena said. Lakshmi Prabha (Phd –Biotechnology), Ramkumar (Industrial Biotechnology), Thayumanavan (Environmental Science) and Nilavamuthan (Bio-informatics) were the other PhD holders who deposed against Ganapathi before the DVAC sleuths. Meanwhile, the petition seeking five-day police custody of the tainted vice-chancellor would come up for hearing before the special court for DVAC cases here on Monday morning.