NAGPUR: The Nagpur Family Court’s Mediation Centre has settled about 2,037 cases in last six and half years, as per latest figures released by its coordinator  . The centre started from June 13, 2011, has settled about 44.75% cases out of total 4,551 referred to it in this period. 

 About 2,205 cases couldn’t be settled and therefore, referred back to the family courts.
 
 Last year alone, about 349 cases were settled through this mode of alternate disputes redressal (ADR) out of 730 referred to it by various judges. “As per action plan given by the  , we had conducted awareness programmes on May 6, August 5 and November 18, 2017 in this regard. Even a short play was staged to convince the litigants to avail mediation facility under the guidance of principal judge IM  ,” Kafre, also a family court judge stated.
 
 He added that the objective to set up the centre was to encourage the parties for speedy justice through ADR. “To mediate means to explore the options of ADR as per Section 89 of the Civil Procedure code (CPC). In this process, attempt is made by trained mediator with at least 15 years experience in advocacy of judge for amicable settlement between the parties,” he said.
 
 Speaking on the success of mediation, principal judge Bohari stated that mediation was an effective mode of ADR for saving time, money and energy of litigants. “It’s a voluntary participatory proceeding and those remain totally confidential. It helps parties to settle their disputes amicably and without going for lengthy battle of proving game,” he said.
 
 Explaining the role of a mediator, Kafre said he should be experienced trained lawyer or judge who impartially encourages both parties to solve the dispute within 90 days. “The mediator gives opportunity to both parties to express their grievances and emotions, thus creating atmosphere to parties to arrive at consensual settlement. The entire process is informal but constructive.”
 
 If both parties agreed to take mediation route, they are referred to the mediation centre. “The settlement also protects parties from physical and mental harassment and prevent exploitation of children. Disputes pending in various courts since long could be settled once and for all, without any further appeal. Only if settlement is not arrived, then the dispute is resolved by courts.”
 
 The judge called on all litigants to at least give a try to the mediation mode to resolve the disputes rather than waiting for years for court cases. 
 
 
