MUMBAI: The family of slain Shiv Sena party worker   suspects that someone known to him was involved in his murder as the accused seemed to be aware of the change in Sawant’s routine on Sunday night. Claiming that Sawant may have been killed over an  , his family members have demanded a   into the murder as Kurar police have been unable to make a breakthrough in the case so far.

 Following a bid on his life nine years ago, Sawant, a Sena deputy shakha pramukh, would avoid staying out late at night and would always be accompanied either by his brother or other Sena workers, said a family member. But on Sunday evening, he went alone with a construction contractor, Pragnath Verma, on the latter’s bike to the local party office. Sawant was shot dead by two unidentified men when returning home. 
 
 Verma is being questioned by the police since he is an eyewitness. CCTV cameras in the vicinity have caught the shooting, but images of the assailants are unclear. The police are now making sketches of the accused based on descriptions by onlookers. 
 
 “There were no gunshot sounds. We could only see people running helter-skelter and minutes later, a man covered in blood being taken away. We thought he had had an accident. Later, we found out that there had been a shooting,” said a shopkeeper. Local residents claimed a bullet grazed a passer-by on his leg. The police traced the man and recorded his statement.
 
 “We were upset with the way the police had dealt with the murder bid on my father in 2009,” said Sawant’s daughter Aishwarya, a collegian. “He was in office when a group of men shot at him. The bullet brushed his waist and he survived. The shooter was never caught. The   of the shooting was an SRA dispute. We suspect he was killed over the same dispute. Had the accused been caught then, it would have sent out a strong message.” Sources said the crime branch had arrested two men who had aided the shooter, but they are no longer behind bars. The police refused to disclose information on the status of the 2009 case.
 
 Sawant was on a committee for the redevelopment of chawls in Kandivli’s Gokul Nagar-Durga Nagar area. A bhoomipujan was held on April 18, which was attended by senior Sena leaders. But there was some opposition to the project and Sawant had also clashed with a few people. “My father was under stress for the past two months. We don’t know if he was being threatened by anyone because he never spoke about his work at home,” Aishwarya told TOI. 
 
 On Monday, well-wishers poured into Durga Nagar for Sawant’s funeral. His parents too arrived from Konkan. “My brother Omkar and I haven’t grieved properly as we have been looking after our mother. We did not tell her about our father’s death until Monday morning,” said Aishwarya.
 
 
