Looking at the speed barriers broken by  , an 18-year-old girl from Nagaon’s Dhing village in Assam, it is easy to forget that no Indian sprinter has won an individual medal at a major international event in a long time. Hima is preparing to compete in the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games, and though she did not have any coaching or did not compete in any race apart from sports day at school till 2016, she has emerged to be a bright prospect among India’s sprinters in the upcoming games.

 In the Federation Cup in Patiala earlier this month, Hima Das stunned many by winning the 400 metres clocking 51.97 seconds. She finished with daylight between her and the rest, which included top contender and Asian Games bronze medallist MR Poovamma.
 
 Hima could not be less ruffled by the sudden surge of attention. “I did not feel any pressure because I love it when I run. I don’t worry about timings or what somebody else is doing in another lane,” she said from the Commonwealth Games Village in Australia.
 
 A look at IAAF race timing archives suggests a pioneering Indian sprinter has arrived. Since 2000, there has been only one sprinter from the country whose performance was among the top hundred timings of the year across all disciplines — Saraswati Dey Saha’s 200m timing of 22.82 seconds in 2002, which still stands as a national record, was the 41st best performance in the world that year. Hima’s performances this year, in contrast to this statistical picture of hopelessness, has been the 12th best (400m in 51.97 seconds) and the 23rd best (200m in 23.37 seconds) in the world.
 
 While the figures are intriguing, Hima’s journey from being unaware about   to making a remarkably late entry into the country’s Commonwealth Games plans to being feted as a future great within a span of 20 months is the real story.
 
 “I used to play everything, but people in my village said football is in my blood because my father has been a footballer. Then in 2016, a teacher told me during a school sports event that I am the fastest runner he had ever seen,” said Hima.
 
 In January 2017, Assam Athletics Association coaches Nipon Das and Nabajit Malakar spotted something special in Hima during a state-level competition and approached her, later arranging her lodging in Guwahati and starting her first ever training programme. Nipon, who is responsible for the recent strategic decision of converting Hima from a 100m specialist to a quartermile star, said, “When I saw Hima last year, I knew I had never seen somebody untrained to be so advanced. I knew she would go far. I learnt later that she is also very strong mentally.”
 
 Despite having less than two years of formal training, running is a career for which Hima seems to have been preparing for since early childhood. Asked when she first felt she wanted to be a runner, Hima said, "When I was in Class II, we used to walk about 5km to school. I did not know of Olympics or even athletics then. One day a friend went in a car and left me behind. I was so angry I wanted to run and outrace the car. I ran so fast that I tripped and fractured my knee.”
 
 One can only guess whether Hima could have overtaken the car had she not tripped but when the girl from Nagaon launches herself ont the Commonwealth Games tracks, Indian fans, alongwith a family of marginal farmers will dare to dream the impossible.
 
 
