Gandhinagar:   MLAs on Wednesday moved a no-confidence motion in the assembly against the speaker,  , after he suspended all Congress MLAs for demanding a zero hour discussion on high rate of VAT levied by the state government on petrol and diesel. 

 Congress MLAs protested for two hours outside the office of speaker and shouted slogans like 'Save Democracy' and 'Save Farmers'.
 
 During question hour, leader of opposition   raised the question of the high rate of VAT on petrol and diesel. He said the tax burden was hurting the masses and has led to a rise in inflation.
 
 In reply, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel said that VAT on petrol-diesel is lower in Gujarat compared to many Congress and non-BJP ruled states. He added that the government was ready to debate the issue in the house. Dhanani accepted Patel's proposal and demanded an immediate discussion in zero hour and sought the deferral of other proceedings, which Patel did not agree to. 
 
 Speaker Rajendra Trivedi said that the chief whips of both parties could meet him after the day's proceedings were over. Congress members began protesting and rushed into the well of the house. Dr Asha Patel, the   from Unjha, also allegedly used unparliamentary words, so the speaker suspended her for two days and other MLAs for the rest of the day.
 
 Dhanani said, "We tried to raise the issue during question hour and demanded a relaxation on VAT on petrol and diesel. The deputy CM himself proposed to have a debate on it and we accepted it, but the speaker did not allow the debate and rejected our demand for discussion during zero hour. When our MLAs tried to raise the issue, he suspended all the MLAs, just because the government did not want us to discuss the agriculture and law and order issues in the following session."
 
 "The speaker is acting as a member of the treasury bench ever since his appointment. The minute a member tries to speak against the government, he orders that their microphone be switched off or doesn't allow the member to speak. We have hence decided to move no-confidence motion against him. We demand his removal."
 
 
