CHANDIGARH: Two miscreants broke into the Sita Ram temple in Sector 19 and decamped with 10 gold-plated crowns and 9 canopies on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. Temple committee president Lalit Kumar said they replaced gold crowns of deities with gold-plated crowns in apprehension of  . 

 He said two persons broke the locks of the small gates and entered the temple around 1.30am. When the accused were running away with the cash box, one of the priests woke up and raised an alarm. At this, the accused left the cash box behind but managed to take the gold-plated crowns and canopies. He said the stolen items were worth around Rs 20,000 to Rs 25,000, which would have been more had the crowns and canopies not been replaced by gold-plated ones. 
 
 “We changed the gold crowns and canopies with duplicate gold-plated ornaments because we were apprehensive about gangs targeting temples these days,” said Lalit.
 
 On being informed, a police team from the Sector 19 police station reached the spot. Police officers said there were four CCTV cameras in the temple but all were non-functional. Sector 19 police have registered a case of theft against unidentified persons and have started investigations.
 
 Police suspect the involvement of the same gang members who conducted heists at two temples in the city this year. This is the third incident of temple theft in the city since January 9. 
 
 A few months ago, thieves targeted two temples in Saketri, sectors 24 and 16.
 
 Shrines under attack
 
 March 23: Three masked men broke into the   in Sector 16 and decamped with seven silver crowns, one silver canopy weighing around 1.25 kg, one small gold canopy, 2 gold nose rings, 2 gold tikkas and silver kavach from the temple of Shiva. The accused also took around Rs 50,000 cash from cash box 
 
 February 20, 2017: Six masked men decamped with gold and silver jewelry worth Rs 30 lakh from six temples located inside the main temple complex at   in Saketri. The case remains unsolved
 
 January 9: Five masked men steal silver ornaments worth Rs 3 lakh from a Shiva temple in Sector 24. The accused stole valuables, including a silver sheet weighing 6kg, three silver crowns (each weighing 1.5kg), and brass idols from temple
 
 
