SEOUL: As India and   improve trade ties with a landmark agreement to build smart cities in India, tourism is seen booming with   emerging as the top holiday destination among Hyderabadis.

 Tourism data with booking.com shows Seoul emerged as a favourite holiday destination in December, leaving other popular destinations like Incheon and   island far behind.
 
 Home to top brands like Samsung and Hyundai, close to 1,00,000 tourists from India travel to South Korea every year with Seoul figuring prominently among all the Korean holiday destinations. Bisected into northern and southern halves by the mighty Han river, Seoul is dotted with swanky high-rises, palaces, temples and shopping destinations.
 
 Both Cleartrip and Thomas Cook specify Seoul as a ‘must see’ city for tourists from Hyderabad, a point ratified by the Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI).
 
 “It’s the lifeline of South Korea and is so vibrant and alive. The modern shopping facilities, especially the cosmetic segment and the history attached to the city, make it very special for people from Hyderabad, among other Indian cities,” says Anil Punjabi, one of the TAFI chairmen.
 
 With India among the fastest growing outbound travel markets for South Korea, and Hyderabad among the top five cities looking for a Korean holiday, no wonder the   ( ) is on their toes.
 
 For every Indian, the War Memorial of Korea, located in Yongsan-gu area, has been a favourite hangout. Apart from the unique sounds and visuals attached to almost every exhibit in the memorial halls, a separate section on India’s role in the 1950-1953 war between South and North Korea attracts huge attention.
 
 “India responding to the resolution by the United Nations Security Council decided to dispatch a medical unit in early November 1950,” reads the plaque in the memorial. India’s 60th Parachute Field Ambulance Unit, an organic unit of Indian Airborne division, sent more than 330 medical personnel and officers during the war to Seoul.
 
 The Gyeongbokgung Palace, erected in 1395, is a top draw. Built during the reign of the Joseon dynasty, the   withstood the Japanese invasion of 1592-1598 and was each time restored to glory.
 
 “The change of guard ceremony is something no one misses, especially as it also gives an opportunity to tourists to click selfies with the guards,” said a KTO guide.
 
 But what’s unique in Seoul is simply its warm people, which can easily be fathomed from a walking tour of the famous Insadong Street or hanging around at Myeongdong, a unique shopping street. Apart from shops of famous cosmetic brands, salons and pubs, the biggest hit is its street food. A non-vegetarian’s delight, the lobster tail and fried fish and strawberry dessert make many skip big restaurants and gorge on them. 
 
 The Hongdae market area and Gangnam street, made famous by popstar PSY and his hit number ‘Gangnam style’, are also popular hangout spots for tourists. While Hongdae is known for it’s nightlife, urban street arts and concerts with bands like Jaurim, Crying Nut and Peppertones beginning their journey here, a gigantic statue of PSY greets people at the opening of Coex Mall, an underground shopping centre in southern Seoul. 
 
 “It’s amazing in Gangnam street. There is easily about 40 coffee shops. People love their coffee here and feel so much at home, lazing around the area,” said Pranav Sai, who travelled to Seoul in October last year. Koreans are also very religious, explained the KTO guide, with Seoul offering temple tours with must visits to Bongeunsa temple and Jogyesa temple, erected in the 14th century.
 
 No tour of Seoul is complete without the famous Korean stage play ‘Cookin Nanta’, where knives and kitchen instruments are turned into musical instruments, and a tour of the Seoul Sky at Lotte World Tour. Seoul Sky on floors 117-123 is the world’s fifth tallest building. Its observatory offers a panoramic view of the city. “The world from the top looks tiny as you step on the glass floor. It is frightening,” said Shilpa Ranade, a tourist.
 
 (This journalist went on an invitation by Korea Tourism Organisation)
 
 
