NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court collegium’s decision to recommend   High Court Chief Justice K M Joseph for elevation to the apex court has sparked a fresh showdown with the Centre which has raised strong objections to the selection panel ignoring the seniority of several other judges and CJs of HCs.

 The government has argued that Justice Joseph stands 45th in the order of seniority among HC judges and 12th when it comes to CJs of high courts and his elevation overlooks the claims of senior chief justices such as Justice Indira Banerjee, Justice  , Justice  , Justice Rajinder Menon, Justice Pradeep Nandrajog, Justice D B Bhosale and Justice S J Vazifdar.
 
 Senior government sources indicated that the collegium could be asked to rethink its recommendation and also pointed out that there was a skew in the SC with over-representation of Kerala HC. The Kerala HC has a strength of 47 judges and has one representation in the SC in Justice Kurian Joseph. Two judges of the HC — Justices T B Radhakrishnan and Anthony Dominic who are now CJs — are due to be elevated soon.
 
 It is also felt the collegium’s recommendation to appoint senior advocate Indu Malhotra along with Justice K M Joseph is not necessarily twinned. The Centre can approve one and not the other.
 
 Sources in the government are also laying great store by Justice J Chelameswar who missed out on being the Chief Justice of India because the collegium did not adhere to the principle of seniority and this delayed his elevation to the SC. As part of the SC’s constitution bench which struck down the National Judicial Appointments Commission (NJAC), he disagreed with his colleagues who upheld the status quo where the collegium has the sole say in appointment of judges to the SC and HCs.
 
 “There is no accountability in this regard. The records are absolutely beyond the reach of any person including the judges of this court who are not lucky enough to become the Chief Justice of India. Such a state of affairs does not either enhance the credibility of the institution or is good for the people of this country,” sources in the government quoted from Justice Chelameswar’s dissenting verdict.
 
 Justice Chelameswar, the second seniormost judge after the CJI, has raised a banner of revolt along with three other seniormost judges over CJI   not following the seniority principle in allocating important cases to benches.
 
 The Centre also noted that the big HCs of Calcutta, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Jharkhand and Rajasthan were not represented in the SC as also smaller ones such as Manipur, Meghalaya, Tripura and Sikkim. Other larger HCs such as Allahabad, Madras and Punjab & Haryana have fewer representation.
 
 The view in the government is that there is a need to firmly draw a line and remind the collegium that in judicial pronouncements regarding appointment of judges, in 1993 and 1998, they had clearly reiterated the principle of seniority. In 1993, the SC said seniority should be given due weight and the pecking order must be respected unless there was a strong and cogent reason to adopt other criteria.
 
 “The legitimate expectation of suitable and equally meritorious judges to be considered in their turn is a relevant factor for due consideration,” the court had said. In 1998, it said the seniority test be applied to all meritorious judges in the zone of consideration. Thereafter, even while the SC struck down NJAC, the “consenting judges” Justices M Lokur and Kurian Joseph called for reform to the selection process.
 
 The government, sources said, has repeatedly urged the CJs of high courts to provide representation to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other backward classes as well as minorities and women.
 
