PUNE: Five wet   processing plants of the   ( ) were non-functional from November 2017 to February 2018, revealed information obtained under the   Act by the citizens’ group,  . 

 It was also revealed that five other plants failed to process the garbage at their full capacity or generate electricity from the processed waste. The RTI reply further stated that the civic administration has 25 wet garbage processing plants with a collective capacity to process 125 tonnes of garbage a day. However, only 65% garbage of the total capacity were sent to these units.
 
 The group has now questioned why these units were not being operated efficiently when open dumping of garbage is rampant all over the city. The civic administration has not been able to operate these plants at full capacity despite spending over Rs 16 crore to set them up and another Rs 2.5 crore on maintenance, the Manch has said in a letter to municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar.
 
 Vivek Velankar of the organization said, “The garbage processing units were commissioned with money paid by the common people as taxes. The civic administration has to operate these plants at full capacity. The ground reality is disappointing as many plants are not functioning properly.”
 
 The group said this was the third time when data provided by PMC under the RTI query has revealed that the garbage processing units were either shut or not functioning at full capacity or the contracts to run the units were not renewed.
 
 Velankar said non-functioning of the units has hampered generation of power and gas at these units. About 4.5 lakh units of power generation were expected in a year at the 25 plants, of which only about 31% power generation has been achieved.
 
 The non-functional wet garbage processing units are in Baner, Hadapsar 1 and 2, Peshwe Park and Katraj. On the other hand, the units closed for contract renewal since October 2015 are in Hadapsar1 and 2, Peshwae park and Katraj. Five units in Yerawada, Vadgaon 1 and 2, Ghole Road and Wanowrie are not generating power.
 
 
