Today’s column features Meena Pillai, a homemaker, now settled in Kochi, and her pet   Figo

 
 
  
 We were a happy family of four staying in a small apartment in Mumbai, with life moving at its own pace. The tsunami was yet to impact our existence. Figo was forty days old when he entered our lives, at the insistence of my two teenaged brats. With just four years to go for retirement, my husband did not want any additional responsibility. The children eventually won the battle and my ‘third child’ came home. 
 
 Parenting took on a new meaning as my bones and limbs were not so fit anymore. The kids gradually became busy with their studies and hubby dearest was acting as if the whole company rests on his able shoulders. Figo’s second name was mischief and every day he steadily chewed the legs of the furniture while every floor mat smelt of urine. When he was old enough to be taken out, the concrete jungle of Mumbai welcomed him. He had lots to sniff around but greenery was at a premium. The beaches were equally filthy and parks were not an option at all.
  
  
  Figo, being a true bred Labrador, loved eating and before long became huge and looked menacing. But everyone agreed that he was the gentlest of giants. Years passed by and the kids flew the nest. In the interim, my husband got an offer to work in Delhi. Ruling out the possibility of air travel, we decided to travel by road to Delhi. Two oldies and one dog set out in an old battered car to romance the streets. But the house was very spacious and before long, Figo made a lot of friends in Delhi. He accompanied all our guests to Humayun’s Tomb, Lodhi gardens, Red Fort and made at least three trips to Agra. We even used to joke that Mumtaz and Shahjahan would rise from their graves the next time Figo visits Agra. However, when we returned to Mumbai after the Delhi sojourn, we realised that something is lacking. After a lot of deliberation, we decided to move to Kerala. Figo was up there in our priority list so we were ready to compromise on the size of the house but insisted that there has to be lot of space in front of the house.
  
  
 Another road trip brought us to God’s Own Country and it has been a few months of bliss for us. Figo is in contact with nature and has cats and squirrels for company. Away from the hustle and bustle of city life, our little house is home to three happy souls. Figo is our third child who will never grow up, will never question our love, will never allow us to brood and is unconcerned with our retirement savings. Our second innings has started and Figo is our batsman, bowler and fielder. 
 
 
  is Figo’s birthday and he turns 6. The unconditional love that he showers on us is our pension scheme, with the maximum returns.
  
  
  
 
 
