It has taken   almost a decade to win that elusive Commonwealth Games individual gold. The former World No 1 pistol shooter won a gold in the pairs event in 2010, and had to settle for a silver in the individuals. She then missed out on winning a medal in the 2014 Games. So it definitely has been a long wait for the Ludhiana girl. In the   Commonwealth Games, despite losing to compatriot   in the 10m Air Pistol, the 28-year-old came back strongly to win gold in the 25m Pistol event a few days later. Talking about her journey to the first individual CWG gold, Heena says, "Yes, it's been a long wait. In fact, mera last Commonwealth Games achha nahi gaya tha. Last time, I was the favourite and I was hoping for the gold, but it didn't go well. So this year, I trained very hard. I was looking at the World Championship, where I would need to score even better, and that helped."

 
  
  
 
 Before the finals, Heena was not in the best of forms, scoring below expectations in the qualification rounds. But even then, Heena's husband and coach   was confident she would win gold. He even told her that she would shoot her personal best. In the end, she not only managed that, but also broke the Commonwealth Games record in the process. She says, "Mujhe laga Ronak is just saying that to buck me up and to increase my confidence, but it's true that every time I have improved in the final. I was shooting two-three hits extra as compared to the earlier rounds. So, my graph had been going up, and I think that was what led him to say that my personal best would come in the CWG finals. But I didn't think I would improve upon my personal best by such a big margin." Some might assume that Ronak believes in Heena's ability more than she herself. But Heena clarifies, "It's not that I don't believe in myself, but I am always more critical and I'm always looking to improve. Ronak, on the other hand, says you should enjoy where you are. Yes, he also works to improve, but he is not too critical. You can say he is more confident. I, on the other hand, am always working. I don't stop!"
 
  
  
 Heena says that the Commonwealth gold was something she had been aching to win, and given her ranking and performance, she considered winning it her duty. "In 2010, I was very young and inexperienced, so at that time, winning even a silver was a big deal. I was just hoping for any medal at that time since it was my first big event. But with age and experience, and the knowledge that I have shot better scores now, winning a gold felt like a duty. Actually, when I lost the gold in Glasgow, that was heartbreaking," she explains. As a discipline, shooting proved to be India's most successful one at the Games, contributing almost a quarter of all the medals India won – 16 medals, including seven golds. But Heena feels even this is not the best that Indian shooters can do. "I don't know why we are so successful, to be honest. But, I know that this is not our best. At these Games, we even lost a few medals here and there, but even then, we ended up with a great number. We can do much better."
 
 
  
  Sadly, though, this could very well be the last windfall for shooters on this platform, because shooting will no longer be an event, starting the next Commonwealth Games in 2022 in Birmingham. The mention of this move immediately turns Heena’s joyous mood into a more somber one. She says, "I would request our government, sports ministry, and the boxing federation to support us and get shooting back in the next Commonwealth Games. Because if we don't have shooting, you can imagine the medal tally."
 
 
  
  
 Heena Sidhu
 Shooting has steadily lost ground at the Commonwealth Games, with the available medals becoming fewer with every subsequent games. Heena elaborates, "Earlier, we used to have both individual and team matches, but since Glasgow (the 2014 Games), we didn't have team matches, then in Gold Coast, they told us to get smaller teams, and now we won't have shooting altogether. I think they also realise that shooting is a medal bank for India and this is one way to get the Indian rank down (in the medal table). But that is not right. In the 2010 Delhi games, we kept the big bore events (full bore rifle shooting events) even though we are not strong there, so that there is something for everyone. I think India as a country should boycott the Games, or at least, send some strong statement that puts forward our case in front of the CWG authorities. We have one of the biggest contingents participating, so if we say we are going to back off from the Games, it will make a difference." Surely, it rankles the 28-year-old that she will not be able to defend her gold at Birmingham in four years' time, but she also fears that the sport might never return to CWG. "It's not just about four years from now, but what if shooting never comes back in the Commonwealth Games? Because once an event goes out, it's very difficult to get it back. It's sort of heartbreaking," says Heena.
 
 
  
  
 After 16-year-old Manu Bhaker beat Heena to win the gold in the 10m Air Pistol event, Manu's father had said that the youngster should be selected in the mixed team for the ISSF World Shooting Championships in Korea later this year, as she had a better chance of winning gold. Heena responds to this by saying that as the higher-ranked player, she has earned the right to be in that team. She elaborates, "It is always the rank 1 and rank 2 players who will play in the mixed team event. And now that she is shooting well, automatically, her ranking will go up. Mixed team is not a gold mine for medals. It's going to be tougher from this year onwards, because earlier, it was a new event and everybody was learning. Looking at that, India needs to go with the highest-ranked players." But with youngsters like Manu coming into the fray, Heena says she has upped her game too. The former world champion says that with many shooters scoring high even in the national championships these days, one does not need to go abroad for good competition. "Over the years, the competition (in India) has really improved and if you look at the National Championship scores over the last ten years, you will see that every year, they have improved. I remember when I won the gold in 2009, the silver medallist was way behind me. Now, you have so many shooters shooting the same scores. It's good that we are getting tough competition at home and we don’t have to go abroad necessarily for top-level competition," says Heena.
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
