CHANDIGARH: I think part of  's strengths is that we recognise that diversity is a strength and a wide range of opinions and views are an important part of the success of Canada. We, of course, reject violence and hate speech or hateful speech, but at the same time, I can reassure everyone that my position, that Canada's position, has not changed. We support one united India,'' Trudeau was quoted as having said in reply to a query from a Canadian journalist in Mumbai. 

 Probed further, Trudeau said in French that Canada would continue to speak clearly and strongly about Canadian values and about Canada's position on a united India. "We will repeat it in every conversation that we have and that's pretty much all we can continue to do. Canada has been unequivocal, both myself, all my ministers, our government on a policy of one united India. We have, we have been very strong on that and we'll continue to be,'' he said.
 
 The Punjab CM had last year refused to meet a Canadian minister,  , accusing him of being a   sympathiser. Sajjan is accompanying Trudeau on his India visit. Trudeau was initially reluctant to meet Singh during his visit to Amritsar on Wednesday but finally, and well into the second day of his stay in India, the Canadian side wrote to Singh seeking a meeting. While the perception, especially in the Canadian media, is that   snubbed Trudeau by not accompanying him to Ahmedabad, the Indian side is still smarting from the Canadian authorities refusal to start his India visit with his official meetings in Delhi.
 
 Official sources said the government will wait to see what transpires in the meeting with Modi on Friday over the Sikh extremism issue and if the same sentiment is unequivocally made in the joint statement. Canadian officials also did not confirm whether or not Sajjan would be present in the Trudeau-Singh meeting.
 
 In reply to another question, Trudeau said he defended Canada's values and Canadian interests and that diversity of views in Canada was extremely important to him. "At the same time, we have been diligent in ensuring that we are taking our responsibilities seriously on cracking down on extremism and standing up for the kind of peaceful dialogue that is essential in Canada. We will continue to advocate for one united India and that is something that is core to what Canada is,'' he said.
 
 In remarks which are likely to be of interest to many here, Trudeau also hinted that he might take up the issue of human rights, freedom of press and civil society rights in his meeting with Modi. "I'm extremely vocal about standing up for human rights, freedom of the press, the rights of civil society every time I engage with any leader of any country. This is something that I do in a respectful, but firm manner as Canadians would expect at every opportunity and I will continue to,'' he said. 
 
 When asked why he had not received a "warm'' welcome in India, Trudeau said the relationship was not about just political ties and that he was looking forward to "sitting down'' with Modi on Friday.
 
 
