BENGALURU: The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike ( ) was slammed by a city consumer court recently for not refunding a meagre sum of Rs 407, collected in excess from a Bengaluru woman following a software glitch in its property tax collection gateway. Judges ordered the Palike’s chief accounts officer to pay the sum, apart from compensation of Rs 15,000 towards litigation, to the victim.

  resident   C, who owns a flat in HSR Layout in East Bengaluru, had paid property tax of Rs 7,193 towards the building on April 24, 2015, to the BBMP. A bank receipt generated showed that Rs 7,600 was collected instead of Rs 7,193. When Vidhya approached the BBMP authorities, she was assured that the additional Rs 407 collected would be adjusted against her property tax for the year 2016-17.
 
 The following year, when the 30-year-old Bengalurean tried to avail of the money, there was no option and the authorities turned a blind eye, probably because it was a small sum. Determined not to be taken for a ride, Vidhya visited the joint commissioner (revenue) who was stationed at Narashimaraja Circle here, but there was no sign of a refund. She then approached numerous officials but was only made to run from pillar to post to collect her own hard-earned money, but failed as BBMP refused to pay.
 
 Disappointed but determined to teach the authorities a lesson, Vidhya approached the Bangalore Urban II Additional District Consumer Disputes Redressal   on July 17, 2017, with a complaint against BBMP. Despite serving legal notices, BBMP authorities failed to appear before the city consumer forum while Vidhya presented proof of documents for the flaw on the part of the Palike.
 
 Following five months of litigation, where BBMP’s chief accounts officer remained ex-parte, judges slammed the Palike, stating that a government body like BBMP is in place for the betterment of the people and is responsible for every paise paid by a Bengalurean. But its officials have been negligent and careless by not bothering to address the software flaw and refund the hard-earned money collected in excess from a citizen, the judges added.
 
 In a judgment pronounced on December 22, the consumer forum ordered the chief accounts officer of BBMP in Bengaluru to refund Rs 407 to Vidhya, along with 12% interest on the sum, from April 24, 2015. The court further ordered BBMP to pay Rs 15,000 to the woman towards her legal expenses.
 
 
