NAGPUR: A standard VIII student, aged around 14, left home in anger on Tuesday, fearing her father’s wrath over speaking at length on the mobile phone. The man who offered her shelter for the night raped her thrice before she was able to get away at 6.30am and call up her family.

 The teenager was nearly rescued by her kin in the night before she was raped. But the girl stayed hidden when she saw her father and relatives searching for her in the locality from the terrace of the accused’s house, where she was later raped in the night. The cops too had briefly searched the locality, before filing a case of kidnapping in the early hours of Wednesday in line with the apex court guidelines.
 
 The girl’s family had scolded her for getting a mobile phone repaired, and engaging in lengthy conversations on it. She decided to leave the house when an aunt threatened to alert her father about this. The girl claims to have been frequently thrashed by her father and others in the family.
 
 After leaving home in a huff, the girl had wandered too far away to be able to return without help after darkness fell. She approached   and his landlord  , who were at the weekly market. Initially,   and Ghoriya chose to avoid the girl, but decided to help when she insisted that returning home would mean more torture from her father and others as she had lost her mother long ago.
 
 Ghoriya and his wife, who stay on the ground floor, suggested Kadwe sleep with them, and allow the teenager to stay alone in his rented room on the first floor, at   in north Nagpur. However, Kadwe crept up to his room around midnight and raped the girl thrice through the night. Kadwe stays alone since his wife deserted him around eight years ago.
 
 Earlier, the girl had an opportunity to go back home, when she mentioned the locality where she was to a family member on the phone. The girl told police she even saw her father and uncle from the first floor of the house, but she remained hidden with her phone switched off. “All she had to do was climb down a few stairs, but she did not,” police said.
 
 On Wednesday at 6.30am, the teenager decided to leave and called up her elder brother. After reaching home, she narrated her ordeal. The family, which had already reported her disappearance to the cops, alerted them about the rest of the incident. She was taken to the police station and then Mayo Hospital, where doctors confirmed the rape.
 
 Kadwe, employed at a plywood shop, was arrested by Jaripatka police. The court remanded him to police custody till February 17.
 
 Jaripatka PI Uttam Mulak said the clothes of the survivor and accused have been collected along with the bedsheet, which would be sent for chemical analysis.
 
 
