Recently,   leader   found himself in the political spotlight when he called on AICC president Rahul Gandhi, declaring him the leader of a Congress-led front and terming a   initiative suicidal. The move triggered speculation about possible strains among potential allies. In an interview with TOI, dismissing rumours of differences with the DMK, Thirumavalavan asserted that the VCK would offer unconditional support to the DMK and that its working president M K   was capable of leading the alliance.

 Why did you meet   president Rahul Gandhi and CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury?
 
 We wanted to wish Rahul after he was elected president of the party. He was also the first to react nationally against the SC verdict diluting the SC/ST Act, and the party held demonstrations in 500 districts which must be appreciated. All secular parties should unite, and we conveyed that to him. The VCK has extended unconditional support to Congress-led front to defeat BJP in 2019. I met Yechury since he has been chosen general secretary for a second term and more so, the party batted for inclusion of SC/ST Act.
 
 But DMK was surprised by your meeting...
 
 The back to back developments in Chennai and Delhi gave room for speculations. Our Delhi visit came soon after KCR-Stalin meet. But, that does not mean we did not discuss politics. Yes, we spoke of a DMK-inclusive front that will include Congress, VCK and Left. Our intention is to remain together.
 
 You did not keep the DMK leadership informed?
 
 It was a courtesy and friendly visit, where we conveyed our political sentiments. I don’t think there is a necessity to inform the DMK leadership.
 
 Were you informed about the Stalin-KCR meeting?
 
 I do not expect it nor was I informed.
 
 What is VCK’s relationship with the DMK at present?
 
 We are an ally of the DMK. We aligned with them for 2019 elections. Immediately after 2016 polls, we organised a conference, ‘Save Secularism’, and passed a resolution to strengthen secular forces to take on communalism. Yes, we criticised DMK and AIADMK strongly, but that was a strategy for the assembly election. Now we will have general elections and the plank will be secular vs communal. 
 
 But, you seem to have moved closer to Congress rather than DMK...
 
 Even the Congress is close to the DMK. They do not intend to move away.
 
 Is this part of your attempt to firm up your position within a future coalition?
 
 There is no such crisis. In the last 17 years, we were with the AIADMK only for six months and the rest with the DMK. In 2019, there is a crisis, not for us, but for the nation. We are with the DMK without any conditions.
 
 Why are you opposed to Chandrasekhar Rao or Mamata Banerjee reaching out to the DMK leadership?
 
 We are not opposed, but it is a delayed move without understanding the present context. It is a suicidal attempt. You can have a few seats but cannot defeat the BJP. I am worried, because it was a cakewalk for the BJP last time. We should be more careful this time and bring small outfits to forge a national alliance. KCR, Mamata Banerjee, Nitish Kumar, Mulayam Singh Yadav, Mayawati... DMK should join hands with more parties including, the Left and the Congress. Only a Congress-inclusive front can defeat the communal forces. 
 
 Why do you say a third front has no relevance in the state? 
 
 The momentum for a third front should have picked up immediately after 2014 elections, for defeating two national forces, the Congress and the BJP. It is not easy to defeat both simultaneously. Likewise, the DMK and the AIADMK in the state. It is not wrong to align temporarily with the enemy’s enemy.
 
 If such a force comes about, who do you think should head it?
 
 The Congress, of course. They may have weakened regionally but nationally they are still strong.
 
 What was the political discussion you had with Rahul?
 
 We talked politics, but more than that socially… The right-wing opponents deliberately portray him as unfit and immature and indulge in psychological attack on him. Believe me, he is a voracious reader. He knows about caste system and talked to us extensively. He is worried about marginalised sections. He is a feminist and a dalit activist. He is fit to lead the nation.
 
 Do you think M Karunanidhi would have handled things differently?
 
 Let us talk present. I do not see any flaw in Stalin. There is no need for comparison. Stalin is capable of leading the party and alliance. He is handling it very wisely. It is the DMK-led alliance here. The alliance has the Congress, and the VCK and the Left definitely.
 
 
