BHOPAL:   has won the water war against Uttar Pradesh. For now. UP has finally given up its demand for ‘extra’ water from   following a strong challenge by Madhya Pradesh.

 ACS Radheshyam Julania, who apparently had to cancel his London trip to attend Monday’s meeting in Delhi, put forth MP’s case strongly during discussions with UP officials on their demand for 900 MCM water from Ken during Rabi season. UP officials eventually settled for 700 MCM of water, as per the previous agreement, and that too depending on water level.
 
 “If the river does not touch full tank level, the quantity of water released to them will be reduced. Our priority would be to meet demands of farmers in MP and the leftover would be given to UP,” said an officer who was part of the meeting.
 
 On other hand, officials acknowledge that the Ken-Betwa link project will take many more years to soothe parched Bundelkhand. Environmental clearance for this project is still pending. The biggest hurdle is the final wildlife clearance that is pending with the central empowered committee (CEC) appointed by  . The standing committee for approval has submitted its report before CEC, which has sent inquiries to   (NWDA) on the matter.
 
 The   has given a conditional Stage-1 forest clearance to the project. “The Union government has to provide non-forest land against the 617 hectares of land that will be submerged due to the river linking project. Without it, the project will not be given Stage-2 clearance, which is the permission to start work,” said the officer.
 
 Above all, the   (NGT) has admitted two appeals challenging environment clearance to this ambitious project. NWDA is yet to reply to NGT’s notices.
 
 Though the project had got the mandatory EC in August, it was further delayed due to Madhya Pradesh’s demand for its extension to certain other areas, incorporating smaller projects, which were originally not part of its first phase. NGT’s decision to admit the appeal came on October 27, just when the ministry was trying to remove the bottleneck by convincing MP government to take up its extension demand in the second phase after taking the UP government on board. 
 
 Apart from sharing of water, there was also apparently disagreement between the two states over finance and execution of the project. It has been decided that the Centre will bear 90% of the project cost, while MP and UP will have to share the rest, said sources. Earlier UP was pressing for 2,200 MCM water from Ken river as its share, and MP was opposing it on the grounds that the initial deal was for 1,200 MCM only. The PMO intervened in July-end and asked both states to end the stalemate. 
 
 
