NAGPUR: Even as efforts to capture problem tigress of   and her two 5-month-old cubs has come to a nought, the   has drawn a lofty plan for stakeholders to save the situation.

 The plan is a result of Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court on May 2, questioning the very logic of handing over the forest area to FDCM and lack of habitat development to ensure why tigers are entering the villages and farms.
 
 According to sources, the   has proposed e-surveillance system to check movement of people in forest and animals. For the first time a management plan will be prepared for the territorial division, which generally operates as per working plan prescriptions.
 
 Sources said government went out of the way to release Rs1.25 crore for five villages — Khairgaon, Borati, Sakhi, Tejni, and Loni — under the Shaymaprasad Mukherjee Jan Van Scheme. Each village, where tigers have killed a villager, will get Rs25 lakh. Besides, Rs7.5 lakh has also been sanctioned for nylon netting to boundaries of forest.
 
 Problem tigers have killed 10 villagers in cluster of 13 villages in Pandharkawda division during the last 22 months. On a PIL against shoot/capture orders of tigress by PCCF (wildlife), the HC questioned department’s lack of efforts in creating habitat for tigers to stop the conflict.
 
 In the backdrop of court order, TOI on May 14, visited these villages and found that tigers and forest teams were fighting a losing battle owing to degraded habitat. Of around 160 sqkm area, 90% belongs to FDCM while territorial forest is spread in hardly 3 compartments. FDCM, which extracts huge timber from the area, over the years seems to have done nothing to improve the quality of forest.
 
 Barring teak in some of the forest patches, entire forest area is rocky and hillocks look barren. The resident male, tigress and her cubs are confined to few nullah patches and around water bodies near the villages. There is not even a 1sqkm contiguous dense forest patch in the vicinity. It is all lantana and barren hills.
 
 Despite monitoring efforts, even 60 members in separate teams are proving meagre to capture the tigress. Earlier, the capture operations were hindered due to lack of regular vets to tranquillize the animal. Team members admit there were occasions when tigress was in front and vets were not available.
 
 However, Pandharkawda deputy conservator KM Abharna says, “We are trying our level best to capture the tigress. The forest being so open the animal gets alerted and escapes. In the last 7 months, only twice teams got chance to dart the animal — one on April 9 and another on April 20.”
 
 With degraded forest and poor prey base, tigers are mostly dependent on nilgai, cattle, horses and sheep grazing illegally in the forest areas. “Our day starts at 5am by verifying locations of the tigress from camera trap pictures and then plan to dart the tigress. At least 45 cameras have been deployed in the area,” says KR Raut, forest watcher STPF.
 
 One of the reasons of conflict is farms being close to perineal water sources. In Borati, where one person was killed by tiger in June last, pugmarks of tiger were found near a water hole, adjoining the farm of Kisan Maraskolhe.
 
 “There has been no tiger attacks since January 27, as crop has been harvested. Now the fear looms large as farming activity is set to begin,” says Abharna.
 
 She adds one of the major hurdles is that the forest cannot be reached with vehicles due to undulating terrain.
 
 “If the tigress is tracked near Vihirgaon and by the time we reach there by tar road, it moves further. The cluster of villages are well connected with tar roads and surrounded by fragmented forests. You only have to walk and track tigers,” says LD Gumpalwar & Dipak Bodhalkar, forest guards. 
 
 Though the exercise to track the problem tigress has been launched since September last, some serious efforts are seen in the field only after HC order questioning handing over of said forest to FDCM and habitat development. After HC remarks, battery of officials including PCCF (wildlife) AK Misra, FDCM head N Rambabu and APCCF Sunil Limaye visited the spot recently.
 
 Limaye admits forest has degraded a lot and there is need to develop grasslands and meadows.
 
 Now a base camp with rescue van has been established at Sawarkheda school, 30km from Pandharkawda, to reach conflict area well in time. “There was common complaint that foresters don’t reach people in case of conflict. Now our van is on constant move creating awareness among villagers about movement of tigers and how to remain safe,” says Megha Gundekwar, forester. 
 
 “There is change in attitude of villagers, who abused us earlier. Now they call us in case of tiger movement. Our awareness has bridged the communication gap between forest department and villagers,” says   and Archana Madavi.
 
 Abharna says over 10,000 sheep and cattle putting pressure on forest is an issue. “We have offered villagers to graze cattle from among the monitoring team members only, who by now have learnt the tigress behaviour,” she says.
 
 Yavatmal CCF PG Rahurkar admits, “Conflict will increase further but we are preparing a comprehensive plan to deal with the situation,” he said.
 
 
