AHMEDABAD: The case in which an alleged robber was taken to have been killed by a mob chasing him in   took a new turn after it emerged that the man had raped a 22-year-old woman in front of her mother, and the mother had hit him on his head with a blunt object in retaliation. He fled, being chased by local residents and died after hitting a wire fence and collapsing, according to the sequence of events so far unearthed. 

 City crime branch is hunting for other members of the gang who had accompanied  , the deceased.   was part of a gang of eight robbers who had barged into the house during the wee hours of Friday where the 22-year-old woman was staying with her mother.
 
 ACP ‘K’ division, Chintan   said police have now added sections of rape along with dacoity in the case and probe is on. Cops are also probing the death of Bhabhor. The complainant woman has said she had hit Bhabhor on his head to defend her daughter and herself.
 
 “Bhabhor later collapsed while fleeing with other gang members after he bumped into a wire fence around a field a few metres away from the house,” said  .
 
 He added, “We have registered a case of accidental death. We have also gathered CCTV footage from a factory located at some distance in which some unusual movement is seen. But due to darkness it is very difficult to identify the persons in the video.”
 
 “We have sent the video for enhancement to the forensic science laboratory,” ACP Teraiya added.
 
 An investigator said, “While four robbers broke into the second room of the house, two of them stood outside to keep watch. Two of them including Bhabhor snatched her gold chain and earrings. While doing so they hit the complainant, who is a 45-year-old woman on her head.”
 
 ACP Teraiya added that the married daughter of the woman complainant had come two days ago to her mother’s place. “According to the statement of the rape survivor, she was raped by Bhabhor in front of her mother. The mother could not bear the barbaric act and retaliated by striking Bhabhor on his head with a blunt object,” said Teraiya. “When both woman began crying for help, their relatives rushed in and the robbers fled from the spot.”
 
 Police officials said they have sent the rape survivor for medical examination and have launched a manhunt for the robbers. “We have taken the help of city crime branch to locate the gang. We are confident enough to nab the gang soon,” added ACP Teraiya.
 
 
