JAIPUR: The Rajasthan government is gearing up to introduce a bill with provision for death sentence to rapists of minor girls in the upcoming budget session of the assembly. According to sources, the bill being drafted will differ from the existing law in Madhya Pradesh. Rajasthan is planning to keep the minors’ age at 15, unlike MP, where the minors’ age has been kept at 12 in rapes that warrant death penalty.

 State Home minister   told TOI, “There’s a consensus in the government that the sexual assault on minors should be dealt sternly. The bill is being conceived accordingly.” he
 
 Deepak Upreti, additional chief secretary (home), said the draft bill would be prepared on the lines of the Madhya Pradesh law. “We hope to present the bill in the next session of the assembly,” Upreti said.
 
 The budget session of the Rajasthan assembly is scheduled to be held in February.
 
 While the Rajasthan government is yet to make up its mind on the age cap on minors committing rapes that warrant death, sources said that the government may enhance the age limit to 15 years.
 
 The Madhaya Pradesh Bill, Dand Vidhi (Madhya Pradesh Sanshodhan) Vidheyak, 2017, proposes death penalty or a minimum term of 14 years of rigorous imprisonment or life imprisonment till death for raping girls aged 12 or less. The minimum punishment increases to 20 years rigorous imprisonment for gang   of girls aged 12 or less.
 
 The Bill also proposes punishment for disrobing, stalking or sex on the pretext of marriage. The jail term increases for second or subsequent offences. Currently, the Bill is awaiting the approval of the President to become law.
 
 According to recently-released   (NCRB) data, cases of crimes against children have shown a steady rise in the state. Rajasthan recorded 4,034 such cases in 2016, which is 3.8% of the crimes registered against children (98,344) across the country. Rajasthan is at No. 4 in the crimes against women category.
 
 The state had registered 3,689 cases of crimes against children in 2015.
 
 The NCRB data shows that the state police registered 728 cases of child rape in 2015. The figure jumped to 858 cases in 2016. The all-India numbers paint a dismal picture of the state.
 
 
