MUMBAI: The average time taken by the   to   civic   over  ,   supply,   management,   and drainage, among others, has seen an exponential increase. It took the   body as many as 48 days on an average to resolve complaints in 2017 compared with 19 in 2016. The number of complaints citizens filed, too, increased 13% from 81,555 in 2016 to 92,329 in 2017.

 These findings were part of NGO Praja Foundation’s 2017   on civic complaints registered by citizens and the time the BMC took to “close them”. For the white paper, the NGO obtained BMC data through the Right to Information (RTI) Act. 
  
  
 While the BMC took 48 days on an average to resolve citizens’ complaints in 2017, for roads, in particular, it took 49 days to do the needful compared with 21 in 2016. While the number of water-related complaints dropped to 6,959 from 7,246, the redressal time almost doubled to 39 days from 19 during the period.
 
 Nitai Mehta, founder and managing trustee of  , said, “While the BMC is planning large infrastructure projects for the city, its day-to-day services seem to be suffering. This only showcases the civic body’s callousness towards the citizens of Mumbai.”
 
 There was a marked difference in redressal among different wards. While the S Ward of Bhandup took an average of 93 days to resolve a complaint, R-Central (Borivli) took 89 days and A Ward (Colaba) 86 days. 
 
 On a brighter side, though, the BMC closed 83% of the complaints it had received in 2017 —up from 58% in 2016. In the past, though, there have been complaints from citizens of complaints being closed without being attended to.
 
 The report has also proposed a few solutions on what could be done to improve the situation, including creating a dashboard on the BMC website to monitor complaints. This would allow corporators and administrative officials to oversee the corporation’s performance on a real-time basis. It has also suggested a citizen feedback mechanism to gauge satisfaction.
 
 Milind Mhaske, project director, Praja Foundation, said, “These solutions are in tandem with the government’s stand on transparent working, as citizens must know how their complaints are progressing. The BMC finally is the largest service providing corporation.”
 
 Civic officials refused to comment on the report. It may be recalled that last year, BMC had declared Praja persona non grata. The tussle began after the NGO published its annual report on the state of health, pointing towards discrepancies in TB and malaria deaths recorded via death certificates issued. 
 
 
