Rural development and panchayat raj secretary   held a high level meeting with officials on Thursday and sought reports on corruption in the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS).

 
 
 
  
 
 A team of five officers headed by additional director in charge of MGNREGS implementation in the state   will visit Coimbatore and   on Saturday and look into the corruption charges, scrutinise documents and conduct inspections. The department has already started scrutinising the records pertaining to the implementation of the scheme and wages disbursed. Officials said strict action will be taken against those involved in irregularities. In the meeting, district rural development agency (DRDA) officials of Coimbatore and other officials involved in the implementation of MGNREGS were questioned on various allegations. TOI reported on Thursday that there was rampant corruption at K   village in Sulur in Coimbatore, how dubious attendance records, showing workers carried out work even on national holidays, were prepared to siphon off money. The villagers denied working on holidays. Fake job cards were also created by the panchayat authorities for the past six years. All this points to a massive scam.
 
 DRDA project director Rooban Shankar Raj said inspections will be held on Saturday at K Madhapur, Malumichampatti, Kurumbapalayam, Pannimadai and Nanjundapuram village panchayats in Coimbatore. "At Avinashi and Palladam also we will hold inspections," said an official. "Palladam and Avinashi are high expenditure blocks and so they will also be inspected," said the official.
 
 The officials were told by the panchayat raj secretary to ensure that such corrupt practices are stopped and to send regular reports. Senior level officials said action will be taken and other panchayats will also be scrutinised.
 
 Several political parties have demanded a thorough probe into the irregularities, not just in Madhapur but across the state.   member M K Kanimozhi of the DMK said corruption in the scheme has completely defeated the purpose as it was started to reach out to villagers without jobs and to give them dignity of labour.
 
 Tamilisai Soundararajan, BJP state secretary, said, "Though this scheme was introduced by the UPA, highest corruption was detected in this scheme during its rule itself. A thorough investigation about the attendance, work carried out and payments made should be conducted by the state government. If state government officials themselves are involved, we have to go for a central government investigation."
 
 K Mayilsamy, BJP union secretary, Sulur, said that apart from a state appointed committee, a central government appointed committee should look into these irregularities. "There is corruption in almost all the schemes. We do not want a departmental or state level inspection. We want the central government to set up a separate committee to look into these irregularities and take action," he said.
 
 
