COIMBATORE:   rates across insurance policies relating to   (Indian Premier League) has risen by 3.5-4.times for the current season. Rates for event cancellation has increased from 0.25% of the sum insured to 1% now, according to Marsh India Insurance Brokers.

 A high loss ratio of 150%-200% is the key reason for hardening of rates, it said. The sum insured varies from Rs 50 crore for a franchise to Rs 1500 crore for a broadcast covering the complete IPL season. Loss of player fee is the most sought after cover for IPL. The loss of player fee cover has gone up from 1% to 3.5% of the sum insured. The cover is sought by BCCI and franchisees separately for the IPL  . The sum insured, which is 50% of IPL player fee per team, ranges from Rs 35 crore to Rs 40 crore.
 
 Player injuries are quite common due to the long cricketing season. Last year, R Ashwin and Murali Vijay were ruled out of the entire IPL season following injuries suffered in the previous series when they played for the national team. Although BCCI is now keeping a close track on player fatigue and fitness, injuries are part and parcel of the game, a senior industry official said.
 
 Event cancellation, player accident and medical issues, and loss of player fee due to injury or illness are the key risks associated with IPL. “Insurers in India are becoming prudent in underwriting sports policies, especially for IPL as this has been a bleeding portfolio since inception,” the official said.
 
 State-run New India Assurance is the dominant player in the segment underwriting almost 75% of policies. The latest demand for covers are for loss of sponsorship for central sponsors covering 60 IPL games in total for risks including weather that leads to cancellation/curtailment of matches, Marsh India said.
 
 Similarly, loss of sponsorship for team sponsors covering ‘Home/Away’ games of franchisees (14 games in total) is another popular cover, it said. The key stakeholders of IPL include BCCI, broadcaster (Star India), eight franchisees, central and team sponsors.
 
  The 11th season of IPL would start on April 7 at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai. The first match of the season would be played between defending champions Mumbai Indians and two-time champions Chennai Super Kings. The matches would be played in nine avenues across 51 days. The final would be held on May 27 at Mumbai.
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
