AHMEDABAD: The Forest Survey of India-2017 reveals that   is across 8,024 sq km, which is little over four percent of the   of nearly two lakh sq km. The   registered an increase of 110 sq km against that in 2015.

 The report further states that when it comes to the tree cover area, Gujarat was fourth from the top after Maharashtra (9,831 sq km), Jammu and Kashmir (8,354 sq km) and Rajasthan (8,266 sq km). However, in term of percentage of geographical area, Gujarat was ranked low as only 4% of the area has tree cover in the state.
 
 According to the report, tree cover is defined as small tree patches and isolated trees outside the recorded forest area which are less than one hectare in extent. These trees are generally found in village wood lots, homesteads, urban areas, compact blocks, and along roads, canals, railway lines among others. These small tree patches of less than one hectare and isolated trees found outside the recorded   are excluded from the forest cover. They are captured in form of tree cover.
 
 Senior officials in the forest department said that tree cover which is outside forest area has increased in the state in the past two years as the state government for the past few years had decided to give trees which are are taller and are not small saplings thus increasing the survival ratio of such trees.
 
 Moreover, according to officials, the forest department has also taken up a major plantation drive across the state, which has resulted in the increase in the tree cover. Officials pointed out that in the year 2011, the tree cover in the state was 7,837 sq km and in just five years the same has increased to 8,024, the increase was slightly less than 200 sq km. However, if one compares the tree cover with Maharashtra the neighbouring state has increased its cover from 9,079 sq km in 2011 to 9,831 sq km in 2017 which is an increase of 747 sq km.
 
 Jump in water bodies
 
 Water bodies within forest areas increased by around 428 sq km which is the second largest increase in the country after Maharashtra which had an increase of 432 sq km. Maharashtra and Gujarat were followed by Madhya Pradesh where the increase in water bodies was in an area of 389 sq km.
 
 
