Madurai: The order of the Madras high court Madurai bench on Friday asking property tax defaulters to pay up is yet to shake up the latter as none of the major defaulters has made a payment so far. Meanwhile, the demand for naming and shaming these defaulters who include many reputed educational institutes as well as public offices grew shriller on Monday. Madurai corporation which depends mainly on property tax in its limits for revenue has to receive dues to the tune of Rs 160 crores. Though it had put the names of 100 major defaulters in the public domain, they were deleted within hours of the court order saying that their names could not be disclosed for legal reasons. RTI activist K Hakkim points out that neither the public sector offices nor private organisations have paid their dues yet. The previous list of the corporation had the assessment numbers of the defaulting assessees, which could be used to track their payment details. According to Hakkim, these numbers could be counterchecked on https://tnurbanepay.tn.gov.in of the Commissionerate of Municipal Administration. However, they still showed that not one among the leading private educational institutions and public sector offices had paid the crores of rupees they owed as taxes.  The corporation removed the names of the errant institutes and public sector offices from the corporation site, www.maduraicorporation.co.in/DefaultiersList.aspx, on the eve of February 2. A perusal of the list showed that the district sports office, Race Course Grounds, was one of the biggest defaulters in the public sector. It had to remit only Rs 10,000 as tax a year in 1975 when it last paid its dues. However, now the rent for the sports complex is Rs 3,26,267 biannually and its arrears alone have shot up to Rs 1.51 crore. Even the Circuit House, where ministers stay during their visit to the city, has pending dues of Rs 15 lakh. Meanwhile, members of the public as well as other organisations have not taken the corporation’s ‘largesse’ to the defaulters kindly saying that they (defaulters) should produce the legal orders which gave them exemption from figuring on the ‘100 major defaulters’ list.  A Asokan of Makkal Sakthi Iyakkam said that it is unfair for public sector offices and big private institutions to get away with tax evasion when the common man pays it on time. “It is the law which should say whether public sector buildings and private educational institutions which function with a purely commercial motive should not be called’defaulters’. Hence, as long as they do not have a court order to prevent their names from figuring on the list, the corporation should release the true list,” he said.