The Modi-Jaitley surgical strike on the traditional economic philosophy of the BJP has left its detractors confused. The early image of corporate-friendly and investment-attractive policies has been replaced by expansionist schemes in healthcare, electricity and agriculture. These are sectors that have traditionally resonated with Nehruvian school of policymaking. Yet, the BJP’s push to brand this as a people-friendly budget betrays a certain nervousness of an impending election cycle. 

 On closer reading, one finds a similarity between some of the proposals read out by finance minister Arun   with those that have been stock schemes of the DMK and its indelible ‘consumer socialism’ model — the bedrock of Dravidian economics. This model has produced tremendous economic growth and social outcomes. Research by Amartya Sen and Jean Dreze note that government investment in social sectors coupled with political empowerment of disadvantaged groups has helped Tamil Nadu leapfrog other states during the past four decades. The state has also been singled out for providing best low-cost health services, extensive public welfare delivery and improved child nutrition.
 
 In recent years, the growth of Chennai’s auto-manufacturing hub branded as the ‘Detroit of Asia’ and its robust services sector stand testament to the industry-friendly policies. Much of this can be traced to the policies of the Dravidian parties. Under the Justice Party, Madras Presidency legislated government assistance to the indigenous industries through the ‘Madras State-Aid to Industries Act’ introduced in November 1922. Industries like paper mills, match, cotton ginning, dyeing and silk factories and oil mills received state support and took shape through this policy initiative. 
 
 Subsequent policy developments can be seen from the setting up of State Industrial Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu (SIPCOT) which helped establish the first industrial estate in 1973 at Ranipet in a 730-acre campus giving rise to 107 new industries. Likewise, Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation Limited (SIDCO) was founded in 1970 with the specific objective of catalysing promotion and development of micro and small industries. This opened the gates for industrialisation and jobs during the late 1960s and early 1970s democratised industrial growth and spurred small businesses.
 
 The standout announcement of the   this year has been the National Health Protection Scheme, that would extend health coverage of `5 lakh per family. Even this flagship "Modicare" scheme seems to be a poor imitation of Tamil Nadu’s Kalaignar Insurance Scheme or lifesaving treatments, launched on July 23, 2009 to cover one crore beneficiaries for treatment up to `1 lakh in any private hospital. In the field of healthcare, there is no question that the Dravidian model has worked wonders. 
 
 The National Family Health Survey (NFHS-4) shows that while more than 70% of households in the country are not covered by health insurance, the corresponding figure for Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana is close to 36%. Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry have also checked their maternal and infant mortality rates which are way behind the national figure. Tamil Nadu records 90% deliveries attended by a skilled maternity assistant and 81% immunisation of infants. If BJP is serious about healthcare, it must draw inspiration from the southern states.
 
 In the past, Tamil Nadu’s mid-day meal scheme was adopted nationally by the Centre. Similarly, the TN government’s health insurance scheme, women’s self help groups and universal public distribution scheme should be taken up by the Centre in good earnest. 
 
 Ultimately, BJP’s rejection of Nehruvian socialism may be applauded by their supporters. But, time has come for the Indian government to look beyond politics in order to appreciate and adopt the consumer socialism model of the Dravidian school which has served the southern states over the past few decades. 
 
 (The writer is an advocate and a spokesperson of the DMK)
 
 
