MANGALURU: Even as   leader Kalladka Prabhakar Bhat’s remarks against minister U T Khader kicks up a storm, the   leader has decided to forgive the veteran leader.

 At a protest meet being organized by right-wing organizations at Kairangala in Khader’s constituency, Bhat said those temples visited by Khader should be cleansed by holding Brahmakalashotsava. Taking objections to inviting Khader to temples, Bhat said, “We need to prevent people, who eat cow meat, from entering temples.”
 
 He questioned those who enact bhoota and kolas, the logic of giving ‘bulya’, (a respectful invitation) to Khader. In a video that is going viral on social media, Bhat is seen making a verbal attack on Khader at the protest organized by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Bajrang Dal and Durga Vahini, demanding the arrest of cow thieves on Tuesday.
 
 “All temples visited by Khader should be cleansed by holding Brahmakalashotsava. Why should a person who eats cow meat be invited to temples? According to me, he should be prevented from entering temples. He knows who steals cows and many of them are with him only,” Bhat said.
 
 On Khader’s claims of constructing roads in his constituency, Bhat said, “Did he construct roads using his father’s money? It is the money we paid to the government as tax.”
 
 While the Dakshina Kannada District Congress Committee is all set to file a case against Bhat, the minister, who is in Mecca, told TOI that he is forgiving Bhat for his comments, as a true follower of Islam.
 
 “I am in a holy place now. I have decided to forgive him for his remarks against me. Our religious leaders preach that we must forgive those who make mistakes. All religions believe that forgiveness is a noble virtue. Hence, I ignore Bhat’s comments and pray to God to give Prabhakar Bhat sense. I will continue to visit Hindu temples in the future too. My visit to temples was never a part of my political agenda. My parents, including my father and former MLA U T Fareed, and my elders, advised me to respect all religions,” Khader told TOI from Mecca.
 
 
