Nagpur: MSEDCL consumers are having a difficult time these days due to frequent shutdowns and some breakdowns that the discom tries to pass off as shutdowns. Even though MSEDCL undertakes maintenance shutdown almost everyday in some area or other, it has not reduced the number of breakdowns. Earlier, MSEDCL used to undertake shutdowns only on Wednesday but now it has become a daily occurrence. MSEDCL justifies this by saying that shutdown period has been reduced to 7am to 10am or 8am to 11am. However, its franchisee SNDL is also undertaking shutdowns during these hours but there are none except on Wednesdays. MSEDCL spokespersons are unable to explain this fact. The reason cited for shutdowns is pre-monsoon maintenance activity. Other reasons include excavation work by agencies like MahaMetro. MSEDCL staffers many times tell consumers that it was a shutdown when power supply goes off during afternoons. Somen Majumdar, a resident of Dattawadi, said that there was no fixed time for power supply going off. “Our area goes without electricity even at night, sometimes for two hours. In addition, there are regular shutdowns every Wednesday. What is the use of shutdowns if they can’t stop tripping,” he added. Rajendra Nagar resident Umesh Sharma also said that shutdowns and breakdowns had become too frequent. “They undertake shutdowns but that does not stop trippings. The MSEDCL line staffers say that they are due to overloading of power equipments during summer,” he further said. Slamming MSEDCL, Vishal Patil, a resident of Ramdaspeth, said, “I have read in the newspapers that government is spending crores on augmenting the power infrastructure of MSEDCL. What is the use of spending so much money if the discom can’t provide uninterrupted power supply?” Anjali Deb, a resident of Dhantoli, had no kind words for MSEDCL either. “Two phases went phut for 24 hours at a stretch some days ago. We could not run the air-conditioner and had to survive on fans. The lineman rudely told us that the system had become overloaded because too many people were using air-conditioners,” she said. Vivekanand Nagar resident Pradip Holey demanded that MSEDCL augment its infrastructure to meet the summer load. “It gets most of revenue from the cities so urban consumers should not be given such shabby treatment,” he said.