The trailer of 'Parmanu: The Story of Pokhran' which will be released today, on May 11, at an event that was literally put together in a few hours, following a crucial Bombay High Court hearing in a case involving John Abraham’s JA Entertainment and Prerna Aroraa’s KriArj Entertainment on May 10. It is now confirmed that the film will release on  In the hearing conducted in Justice Kathawalla’s chamber in the HC, it was decided that Vashu Bhagnani’s Pooja Entertainment will bear the cost of P&A (print and advertising) and distribute the film pan-India. Zee Studios will distribute the film internationally while John Abraham’s JA Entertainment will be credited as a producer for the film. Ajay Kapoor’s Kyta Productions will also be credited for their contribution to the project. Prernaa Arora’s KriArj Entertainment will not be a part of the project in any capacity. “On May 7, the legal teams of the companies involved with the consent terms were trying to find a middle ground. Although it was difficult, but the parties have mutually agreed on certain terms like Pooja Entertainment will first recoup their P&A investment from the returns on the film, followed by John’s outstanding amount of Rs 5.65 crore and Pooja Entertainment’s prior investment. The fresh consent terms are extremely detailed and look into every party’s interest,” says a source from JA Entertainment present in court during all the hearings. Since the hearing on May 10 was specifically to address the concerns around 'Parmanu: The Story of Pokhran', Gothic Entertainment and Kyta Productions’ interventions were not allowed. While Kyta Productions will be credited in the film, both the companies’ matters will be heard on  “It was on Gothic Entertainment’s intervention that the court has restrained Prernaa, Protima Arora and Arjun N Kapoor (owners of KriArj) from leaving the country till the next hearing. They have to be present in court on  To jog your memory, John Abraham and Prernaa Arora, of JA Entertainment and KriArj Entertainment respectively, entered into an agreement for Rs 35 crores in which John's company would complete the production of 'Parmanu'. However, towards the end of the journey, Prernaa defaulted on payments, forcing John’s team to first serve a public notice at the end of March this year and severing ties with her company. 