Lucknow girl  , known for movies like 'Haunted 3D' and '1920: Evil Returns', was recently in her hometown shooting for a film with co-actors   and  . It became a challenging task for the singer-actor to shoot in the city as she got to experience Lucknow winters after 10 long years. "I always celebrate Diwali with my parents in Lucknow but would go back to Mumbai in a day or two, so I never actually experienced Lucknow ki sardi all these years. But this time, because of this film shoot, I am experiencing Lakhnawi winters after 10 years,” said the actress, adding, “I came here in the last week of December and was literally shivering due to the chilly weather. I used to wear woollen socks and pile on sweaters whenever we got a break after a shot because thand ki wajah se ab kaam toh roka nahi jaa sakta. But itne saalon baad maine iss baar thand ka mazaa liya hai."
Lucknow winters is much more than just having   and Tunday kebabas for Tia aka Lakshmi of 'Ghar Ki Lakshmi Betiyann' serial. "Being in Lucknow during winters and not having   is like committing a sin for me. It’s my favourite sweet. Since it’s available only in winters and I was never here in Lucknow at that time, I used to miss it a lot in Mumbai."
 And Tia not just had the sweet herself, in fact, she also made her film crew hooked on to it. "I made everyone from my crew eat Lakhnawi Makkhan Malai and all of them became fans of it. Initially there were a lot of questions like 'yeh kya hai?' and 'how can I eat so much butter?' but the moment they had it, they wanted to eat it everyday," laughed Tia, adding, "Everybody has made Tunday kebab so famous that the other delicious cuisine of the city remains unknown to most people."
 Tia, who shot for a film in her hometown for the first time, shared an overwhelming experience during the whole shooting schedule. "I have done several singing shows in Lucknow but shooting here for a film was for the first time for me. Lucknow ke log were really very helpful during the shoot. While shooting in   in Hasanganj, the marble floor was too cold to stand on in this cold weather, and we had to shoot barefoot on that. There was a lady who saw me shivering and brought a rug for me to stand on whenever there was a break in between. Toh matlab it’s only possible in Lucknow that people are so caring," said the actor, who shot in locations like Qaiserbagh, Sitapur Road, Bakshi Ka Talab, and more. 
 The Haunted actor feels that there are a lot of perks of being a Lucknowite while working in the TV industry as well as Bollywood. "Lucknowites are very well-behaved and that is appreciated a lot in the industry. We don’t have to work much on our pronunciation and diction, as we grow up in that environment. Moreover, people call me Lucknow ki Nawabzaadi in Mumbai," said Tia with a laugh. "Hamara baat karne ka jo lehja hota hai, it is very graceful and it’s something that people really like. After living in Mumbaifor so many years, I still say ‘hum’ and 'aap' which Mumbaikars love. Many of my friends call me up in between shots to ask the correct pronunciation of some word or sentence," she added with pride. 
 By Adnaan Rizvi
 
