NAGPUR: The   ( ) boasts of the only functional trauma centre ( ), among the many sanctioned in the state and the country. However, even two years after its launch, the centre is far from meeting its basic purpose of dealing with emergency patients. It is just like any other hospital.

 
  
 
 The basic purpose of a TC is to have an independent casualty, where the patient is given all the required treatment within the golden hour to save life and minimize any disability caused due to trauma. In fact, the TC must have a full-fledged rehabilitative facility too. Other major requirements of any TC include an OPD, and 24X7 availability of specialists like neurosurgeons, orthopaedic and general surgeons etc. It should also have enough space for ‘disaster handling’ in emergency, an independent blood bank and storage facility.
 
 However, the TC at GMCH is more like an extension of the hospital, rather than an independent trauma care facility. Certain infrastructure changes had also been suggested by an expert committee, but these too remain on paper till now. Trauma patients reaching GMCH are first directed to the casualty department, where basic tests are done and then sent to the TC across the road.
 
 “We have been told that the TC at GMCH is a state-of-the-art unit rendering specialized services, whereas other sanctioned TCs have failed to even take off. So, we will assess both, positive aspects of the TC as well as consider the lacunae, to improve the existing standards,” said Gopaldas Agrawal, chairman of Public Accounts Committee, which is visiting the TC on Wednesday.
 
 GMCH dean Dr Abhimanyu Niswade defends the existing facility and says that there is no need of a casualty at TC, as there are not enough patients. “We have 72 beds now. The facility is meant to have 90 beds. Gradually, when the bed strength increases, we will start the casualty,” he said. The dean apparently is not considering the time lag caused between seeing the patients at GMCH casualty, tests and shifting him to the TC.
 
 TC ideally should have all the diagnostic facilities and equipment under one roof. At present, all the specialists in GMCH-TC are available ‘on call’, whereas ideally they should be available round the clock. It was only a few days back that the authorities appointed Dr Anil Golhar, a private orthopaedic surgeon, as the head of TC.
 
 There should be a disaster management area too, which can be converted into a ward in case of mass casualties like fire etc. The place should have enough monitors, beds and ventilators for emergency, as well as piped oxygen supply. But these things are not available in the existing system in TC. There should also be a graded system for distributing very serious, serious and less serious patients in different wards.
 
 
