THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government has turned a blind eye to the report filed by   collector GR  , seeking urgent departmental action against   and additional SI for defying a magisterial order to arrest a   leader.

 The leader had assaulted revenue officials who were evicting illegal encroachment on government land.
 
 The recommendationsent on the basis of a report submitted by the then   sub-collector   on July 17, 2017 (accessed by TOI)—is gathering dust in the home department.
 
 Though the collector had sent a reminder on December 6, no action was taken. Gokul confirmed that he had sent a report recommending action against the two officers to the government on the basis the sub-collector’s report.
 
 A group of CPM supporters, led by CPM local committee secretary (Devikulam)   and panchayat member Suresh, had manhandled revenue officials and public land protection force (PLPF) staff Lison, when they were trying to evict Mani, who had encroached on government land near Munnar, in April 2017.
 
 Venkitaraman, who reached the spot after learning about the law and order issue, had asked   and addl SI Punyadas to arrest John and Suresh in front of the public and the media. Both officers said that they had not witnessed the CPM leader manhandling the PLPF member and refused to obey his order. Later, they had said that action would be taken if it was given in writing. But, they refused to do so after being given a written order by the subcollector, who is also the sub-divisional magistrate.
 
 “A government machinery failing to handle a law and order situation due to the non-cooperation of police is no small matter. When the sub-collector orders an arrest to contain a law and order issue, defiance by the concerned police officers – who are responsible for carrying out the order – is a serious violation of Section 44 and Section 129(2) of the criminal procedure code,” the report said.
 
 As per Section 44 of CrPC, when an offence is committed in the presence of a magistrate within his local jurisdiction, he may himself arrest or order any person to arrest the offender. Also, according to Section 129(2), any executive magistrate or police officer should disperse such assembly by force, and, if necessary, arrest the persons who form part of such an assembly. Not only the orders were defied, but the police officers refused to appear before the district collector for hearing in the matter, citing flimsy reasons.
 
 Ironically, soon after the incident, Venkitaraman was transferred and incumbent sub-collector VR Premkumar took charge in his place.
 
 Incidentally, the same CPM leader was shown the door by VR Premkumar when he and his companions sought donations from the sub-collector's office.
 
