 : Defence minister  , chief minister   and   minister for drinking water & sanitation   arrived in Jhansi on Friday for plan formation of the proposed defence production corridor in Bundelkhand region. They also held an interactive meet on ‘Defence Corridor in Uttar Pradesh’.

 Paying tributes to   at a public meet, Sitharaman said, “Every defence minister should come here and bow in front of Rani Laxmibai who showed the world how to defend one’s motherland.”
 
 “We are planning defence production units in this corridor which will produce essential commodities for defence use that we will buy,” she added.
 
 Sitharaman further said that she will request Union finance minister to ensure that the benefits of Mudra loan scheme help in boosting entrepreneurship in Bundelkhand region and promised that she will herself monitor the   project on a weekly basis.
 
 She invited innovative ideas for the defence corridor and said that the good ones will be awarded and also promised to facilitate an interaction of local business houses with national associations   and Assocham so that regional business gets a boost.
 
 CM Yogi said in his address that the government is committed for development of Bundelkhand. “We will be creating an industrial corridor on both sides of the upcoming expressway passing through Bundelkhand. This expressway construction will be taken up soon. We are also coming up with a rail coach factory in Jhansi for which railway minister will be coming to make an announcement. The three new food processing units proposed here will pave the way for increasing the income of farmers which is the dream of our PM”.
 
 Yogi said that Bundelkhand has all the resources required for development but it was never on the agenda of those who ruled the state earlier.
 
 Targeting the opposition, Uma Bharti said that development should be for all and not for just one section of the society as was done by earlier government.
 
 Foundation stones for 37 projects worth Rs 11,626 lakh were also laid. Apart from this students were given educational kits and those who helped in achieving cleanliness targets were felicitated.
 
