PATIALA: The National Investigation Agency, in its first charge sheet filed on targeted killings, alleged that over Rs 23 lakh was sent to   from Italy, Australia and the   by pro-Khalistan activists, who had planned these killings in the state. 

  and Ramandeep Singh, who have been identified as two shooters allegedly involved in the killings, received the funds in India and used them to give a practical shape to the conspiracy hatched in Italy in 2013.
 
 Hardeep, the main shooter, received a large volume of funds in 2016-2017 and used these to purchase weapons, travel between India and Italy and for other expenditure, including personal expenses, according to the charge sheet on RSS leader Ravinder Gosain's 2017 murder filed in the court of special judge Anshul Berry in Mohali. 
 
 Besides financing the seven targeted killings between 2016 and 2017, these funds played an important role in keeping Hardeep and his fellow shooter Ramandeep motivated. Access to these funds allowed them to maintain an ostentatious lifestyle, much beyond their known sources of income, the NIA claimed.
 
 The agency also alleged that the conspirators had sent Rs 23 lakh to Punjab using a variety of methods, including money transfer services such as Western Union and Moneygram, banking transactions and hawala channels.
 
 
 
 
 Jalandhar SSP Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the complaint had come from the CEO for “inquiry and report” but Bajwa registered an FIR. “The case is now being inquired by the Shahkot DSP along with revenue and mining officials,” he said.
 
 The Opposition wasted no time and pounced upon the Congress. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) demanded Ladi’s immediate arrest. “Rahul Gandhi should explain under what compulsion he gave the by-poll ticket to the mining mafia kingpin,” said SAD senior vice president and MP Ranjit Singh Brahmpura in a statement. “This is a charge which has been made against Ladi by his own government and exposes the double standards of the   party on the issue of corruption and mining mafia.”
 
 The by-elections will be held on May 28 along with similar elections to nine assembly and four Lok Sabha seats in 10 states. The fight at Shahkot will be between Ladi and Shiromani Akali Dal’s (SAD) Naib Singh, who is the son of senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former Shahkot MLA Ajit Singh Kohar whose death led to the by-election. AAP is yet to declare its candidate.
 
 In the FIR, Bajwa has stated that as elections are being held, the case could be political in nature. He has added that action would be taken only after an inquiry. “If the allegations levelled in the complaint are found to be false then the case would be cancelled,” the FIR reads.
 
 In his complaint,   has alleged that Ladi was quarrying sand illegally with excavating machines. It has also been alleged that government officials are colluding with the miners. Along with Ladi, quarry contractor Surjit Singh and one Ashwainder Singh have also been booked for theft and under provisions of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act. The FIR mentions that it was registered at 3 am on Friday.
 
 Ladi called the FIR a political conspiracy and alleged that the SAD was trying to defame him with a patently false complaint. “The SAD hatched the conspiracy out of frustration and desperation. I am open to an investigation,” he said.
 
