MUMBAI: In a relief to close to 150 students admitted to the  ,  , the state’s   (FRA) has asked it to slash their fees from Rs 14 lakh to Rs 6 lakh per year. It has also issued a notice to the college, asking it to refund fees charged in excess of Rs 6 lakh, the limit of ad-hoc fees   allows new institutes to charge.

 The college’s Rs 14-lakh fee in its first year was the highest among all private medical colleges in the state. The FRA, in a recent order, called the move “illegal”.
 
 This private college from Dahanu is the first in the state to register under the Companies Act. Last June, Vedantaa said it was established to make profits and therefore cannot be regulated by the FRA. In a notice in December, FRA rejected the claim and said private educational institutions offering professional courses in Maharashtra, even if they are registered under the Companies Act, will come under its jurisdiction.
 
 The college contemplated moving court against the FRA order, but is yet to do so, said an FRA member. “The institution has collected Rs 14 lakh as ad hoc fees from students admitted to the MBBS batch of 2017-18. This authority has declared Rs 6 lakh as ad hoc fee applicable to colleges started in the academic year 2017-18. In view of this, collecting Rs 14 lakh from each student is ex-facie illegal. It is, therefore, resolved to direct the institution to refund the fees collected in excess of Rs 6 lakh, to the respective students,” said the order.
 
 The FRA, a quasi-judicial body, regulates fee prescribed by private, unaided and professional colleges based on their balance-sheets. Since new institutes do not have any proof of income and expenditure, an ad hoc fee is prescribed by the body. The Maharashtra Private and Unaided Professional Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Fees) Act, 2015, allows the FRA to regulate the fees of all private institutes offering professional courses. The FRA in its December 28 order had ruled that only institutions established, maintained or administered by the state, central or local governments, deemed universities or private universities are out of its purview. It added that Vedantaa’s claim of immunity because it is established as a company is ill-founded and contrary to the 2015 Act.
 
 A parent of a student studying in Vedantaa said the college does not lack any facilities, but the fees charged for a rural college is very high. “Though we were earlier sceptical about infrastructure, it is not a problem anymore. But the fees are really high and the FRA’s order has come as a huge relief to all the parents,” she said.
 
