CHENNAI: The State Human Rights Commission ( ) has directed the state government to pay a compensation of Rs 3 lakh to a jewellery shop owner who was detained illegally for three days and harassed by the city police six years ago.

 
 The commission also recommended disciplinary action against then assistant commissioner, Koyambedu, and two of his subordinates from   police station.
 
 According to the petitioner, P Satish Kumar, his father, AR Palani has been running a jewellery shop at   in   for the past 40 years.
 
 On July 8, 2012, around midnight, a team of 15 police personnel headed by then Koyambedu assistant commissioner  , barged into Palani’s home and dragged him into a van, according to the petition.
 
 The petitioners claimed that Palani was arrested illegally by the police based on the input from a former thief who identifies jewellery shop owners to police if they are not able to trace real culprits of theft cases.
 
 The same day, the family filed a complaint with the local police and with the chief minister’s special cell and DGP. “That night, the Koyambedu police asked us to bring 600 grams of gold and threatened that 33 cases would be foisted on my father if we failed to do so,” Satish Kumar stated in his petition.
 
 Two days later, the family filed a habeas corpus petition before the Madras high court.
 
 Learning of the petition, the Koyambedu police hurriedly remanded Palani in a city court on July 10. Three days later, he availed bail.
 
 The police, in their counter petition, denied the claims against them and maintained that Palani was arrested based on inputs by two people who were arrested in gold theft cases and their statement that they sold the stolen gold to the jeweller.
 
 The commission after hearing both sides ruled in favour of the petitioners and recommended a compensation of Rs3 lakh be paid to Palani and the amount be recovered from the erring police personnel, R Srinivasan, R Subramani, then inspector, and S  , then sub-inspector.
 
 
