CENTURION:   dropping   when the batsman was yet to put a run on the board was the only blip in India's catching radar until they had made their way to the SuperSport Park.

 Dhawan's folly would no longer be remembered by the time the second Test here at Centurion would near its end.  , replacing   behind the stumps set the trend to what has been a dismal show on the field from Team India. The confusion between Mohammed Shami and Hardik Pandya in the covers,   dropping in the slips, KL Rahul messing one up in the leg-slip, indecision between the wicketkeeper and slip fielders leading to confusion has marred India's prospects in this Test match.
 
 For a team that embarked on this tour with a vision to be "the best fielding team in the world" they clearly haven't done themselves favours. While India were still busy playing Sri Lanka at home during the recent Test series, YoYo Tests had become the talk surrounding this cricket team. Fitness, they asserted, would remain of primary importance if India were to go from being a good team to the best in the long run. Fielding was an element scripted to be part of that plan.
 
 "It's very frustrating for the bowlers when everything is going right and the edges are coming off but not working out the way we would have liked," said Shami, who bowled his heart out to Quinton de Kock but three out of four potential catches either went between the wicketkeeper and the first slip or the first and the second slip.
 
 If India's catching at Centurion has been anything to go by, they're clearly miles away from being anywhere close to where they intend to be. And to make bad look worse, competing against a side like South Africa - who throw themselves at everything on the field - has only complicated matters.
 
 India have certainly had brighter moments on the field too, so far on this tour. The catch that Rohit Sharma took in the third slip at Cape Town, for instance, was balm on the wound that kept gaping post Dhawan's drop. In the second Test too, Hardik Pandya's run out of   and his catch at deep-square leg to get rid of Kagiso Rabada were quite impressive.
 
