NEW DELHI: The distraught parents of the 34 girls who had been rescued by authorities from the notorious   in north Delhi’s Rohini managed to meet them on Tuesday under supervision of Child Welfare Committee ( ).

 CWC is also carrying out rehabilitation of the rescued girls who are also under going detailed medical examination.
 
 The developments are likely to be communicated to Delhi high court when it takes stock of the case on Thursday. The rescue operation was conducted by Delhi Police and Delhi Commission for Women on HC’s directions.
 
 A bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar had ordered a CBI probe into  , the owner of the ashrams and self-proclaimed spiritual guru, who is currently on the run.
 
 Sources said the CWC oversaw an emotionally charged reunion of the parents desperate to meet their wards. The girls had been forced to cut off all ties by the ashram management and were allegedly sexually exploited.
 
 After more girls were rescued from Dixit’s ashrams in December, the anxious parents started visiting the CWC office to inquire about the whereabouts of their wards. Faced with a deluge of requests, CWC sought written applications to make sure that only genuine parents were given access.
 
 Following HC’s intervention, police had booked Dixit for alleged rape and criminal intimidation. Another case has been lodged against unidentified people for obstructing the work of a high court-appointed committee that went to the ashram on December 19, 2017.
 
 The bench had earlier set-up a committee comprising DCW Swati Jaihind and advocates Ajay Verma and Nandita Rao to inspect the ashram. The panel had reported illegal confinement of girls and women in the ashram saying they were kept in “animal-like” conditions behind metal doors in a “fortress” surrounded by barbed wire.
 
 HC had asked CBI to trace Dixit, the founder of the ashram, and asked him to be present before it on January 4. The CBI director was ordered to form a special investigation team to take charge of all records and documents pertaining to the matter and investigate the FIRs lodged in Delhi. The agency was also asked to check the daily diary entries relating to complaints of missing girls, commission of sexual offences and even a case of suicide there.
 
 Sensing that something was amiss, HC had then roped in CWC on the age verification tests to be carried out on the 41 rescued girls.
 
 The court is hearing a PIL filed by NGO Foundation for Social Empowerment, which had alleged that several minors and women were being kept confined at the “spiritual university” and were not allowed to meet their parents.
 
 
