KOCHI: Discussions, spread over several days and in multiple fora, are held prior to sculpting the plan-fund projects to ensure   of available funds. But Kochi corporation authorities are making a mockery of the concept as they are holding discussions on more than 1,000 projects, to be implemented in 2018-19 fiscal, at four different forums on a single day - this Saturday. 

 Discussion of the projects in four different forums are mandatory for gaining approval of district planning council ( ).
 
 The projects must be discussed in detail in 19 working groups and eight standing committees before the compiled drafts can be forwarded to the steering committee. These projects should be then send to the corporation council, which is meeting in the afternoon. The proposals approved by the council should be submitted to the DPC. Unless all these procedures are completed on Saturday itself, the corporation authorities will find it difficult to get nod for implementing projects.
 
 "The practice followed in the previous years was that the projects would be designed in January and procedures associated with it would be completed in the next couple of months. The project implementation would be done in February-March. Preparing the projects in haste results in lowering their quality and use of funds on unnecessary ones. That's why the state government issued strict guidelines that the project implementation should begin on April 1 itself," said V P  , secretary,   parliamentary party, Kochi corporation.
 
 "The corporation authorities who decided to hold these discussions in a single day have failed to discharge their duties. Since there are a lot of projects to be implemented and we have only limited funds, better usage of funds is needed. The discussions at working groups, standing committees, steering committee and corporation council can contribute a lot towards designing apt and necessary projects. As all the meetings are being held on a single day, we won't get even a couple of hours for discussing more than 1,000 projects. So, we will have to design projects which are not worthy. It is for the first time that these meetings are being held on a single day," Chandran said.
 
 According to the corporation authorities, the decision was taken due to time constraints. "In the past few days, we were busy with the budget presentation, discussions and passing of the budget. So, we didn't get adequate time," said  , chairperson, standing committee for development.
 
 Many corporation officials have been working even on holidays to ensure maximum plan fund expenditure, she said. "Now, the expenditure for plan fund projects have touched 73 per cent," said Gracy.
 
 
