SURAT: Two oxygen therapy parks would be set up at   and Utran in the city by the   (SMC) to help keep the environment clean. Two layered plantation at assigned places would begin by the month-end and the parks would be ready by monsoon. This is first time that such an endeavour is being taken up by any municipal corporation in the state. SMC has so far set up 96 gardens, 60 senior citizens parks, 20 lake gardens, 35 oxygen corners and an oxygen park at Amroli.

 Surat limits spread over in an area of 326 sq km has a population of 50 lakh and 28 lakh vehicles, the latter remains a major cause of air pollution in the city. “The idea of oxygen therapy parks germinated during a discussion on air pollution. The condition will become unliveable in the city because of pollution. We decided to set up two big oxygen therapy parks to provide people fresh air,” garden superintendent, SMC, S   said.
 
 The proposed parks will be spread over in 7,000 sq metre area and each have a two-layer 24-hour oxygen releasing plants. There would be peepal, neem, areca palm trees in one layer and aloe vera, tulsi, snake plant, ivy plant and ficula plantation in the second. Each park would have at least 5,000 oxygen releasing plants. 
 
 Ficula produces more oxygen than other plants and doesn’t require much sunlight while areca palm works as a humidifier because it has the capacity to filter xylene and toluene from the air. One aloe vera plant is worth nine air purifiers as it absorbs CO2 and CO and has a lot of medicinal value, while ivy plant removes faeces particles in six hours time with toxins. Spider plant filters gasoline, styrene, toxins and carbon monoxide, whereas snake plant produces oxygen even during night. Tulsi is an excellent air purifier, too, experts said.
 
 “The major benefit of these oxygen therapy parks would be that they would work as stress reducer and strengthen the immune system of a person. A one-hour visit to this park would help reduce blood pressure and lessen the risk of someone slipping into depression. If someone chooses to hug a tree in these parks, he or she would feel reinvigorated,” Dr Gautam said. 
 
 
