NAGPUR: Medical students belonging to the backward classes have alleged that the state government rule dated March 31, 2016, regarding state recognized private medical colleges ‘without grant’ and ‘permanently without grant’ needs to be updated regarding deemed medical universities.

 The rule states that freeship will not be provided by the state government to students who take admission in deemed universities. “This law was applicable when deemed universities were very few, and were allowed by the state to function independently. Earlier, they had their own exams, but now they are a part of the NEET process,” said Dr Siddharth  , president of Babasaheb Ambedkar Students Federation.
 
 Bharne points out that last year, the   had extended the deadline for final round of UG MBBS (medical) and BDS (dental) admissions in deemed universities owing to 5,500 vacant seats. “SC/ST students could not apply for seats in deemed universities despite vacant seats as they could not afford the full fees,” Bharne added. The GR also states that the rule will remain applicable in the coming years.
 
 When asked about the GR, assistant commissioner of social welfare   said, “We are only mandated to follow the rule. If the members of the community feel the requirement of a reservation, they need to mobilize themselves and   so from the government.”
 
 Associate professor of DY Patil college, Pune, Dr Sanjay Dabhade says he has forwarded petitions and applications to HRD minister Prakash Jawade in this regard, as deemed universities directly come under HRD ministry. “I haven't received any acknowledgement or reply.”
 
 “There is also an issue about fee reimbursement. A high court order in response to a petition stated that the state government should reimburse fees of backward class students. State governments went to the Supreme Court and the case is still pending,” he said, adding that he has been pursuing the case since eight years now.
 
 Article 15 (5) amendment to the Constitution says that reservation in any institution, except minority institution, must be compulsory if directed by the executive or the Parliament.
 
 “The government can, by simple law, direct the institutions including private medical colleges and deemed universities to follow the norms. The community too is not aware. Earlier private universities under state government were also deprived of reservation, which was later reversed. Who will bear the reimbursement is the main issue,” Dabhade claimed.
 
 There are 1,760 medical UG seats in deemed universities, he said, adding that about 800 seats could have ideally been allotted to students belonging to backward class.
 
 
