HYDERABAD: An early morning joyride to   in Vikarabad district turned fatal for four friends when their car crashed into a road divider at   in Jeedimetla on Friday, killing two of them on the spot and two succumbing later in a hospital. Only one survived.

 
 The accident occurred at 2.10am when the five friends were heading to Anantagiri, 80 km from Hyderabad, from   in a Hyundai i20 car. Police ruled out the possibility of the victims being drunk and blamed overspeeding for the crash. Among the victims were two students.
 
 Rama Rao (19), caterer, was at the wheel at the time of the accident. “He lost control and crashed the car into the divider. Under the impact, the car overturned. Rao and Uday Kumar (19) died on the spot,” C Shanker Reddy, inspector, Jeedimetla, told TOI. Uday was working in a private firm.
 
 Two others — Hema Sundar (20) and Ganesh (19) — suffered grievous injuries and died while undergoing treatment at Malla Reddy Hospital. Sundar and Ganesh were pursuing their studies. All the victims were residents of   in Suraram. Kiran Kumar (19), pursuing his Intermediate course, was the lone survivor.
 
 The inspector said the bodies have been shifted to   for an autopsy. A case was registered under Section 304(A) of IPC.
 
 Meanwhile, two others died in two different mishaps after they were hit by lorries. Sixty-year-old retired employee of NIN B Ramulu died after being hit by a truck at Vinayak Nagar in Neredmet. Ramulu was riding his bicycle from Vinayak Nagar to his Kakatiya Nagar home when the lorry hit him from behind. He sustained serious head injuries and was shifted to a hospital where he was declared brought dead.
 
 At Chaderghat circle, an unidentified man crossing the road died on the spot after he was knocked by a speeding lorry at around 4.30am. The victim, aged around 40 years, was wearing an ash coloured shirt. Police are yet to identify the deceased. “We are going through the CCTV footage. We are yet to identify the lorry registration number. The lorry was on its way to Koti from Malakpet,” said G Sattaiah, inspector, Chaderghat.
 
 
