LUCKNOW: The   would test the will and prospects of UP’s regional parties — SP and BSP — coming together and joining hands with   to cobble up a united front against BJP ahead of the crucial 2019 Lok Sabha elections.

 While SP chief   has been publicly calling for opposition unity, BSP chief   has been keeping mum on the issue. The Congress, which recently won two LS bypolls in Rajasthan and raised its tally in Gujarat asssembly wants to regain lost ground in UP, had fared very poorly both in Gorakhpur and Phulpur in 2014 general elections and cannot harbour much hope in contesting alone.
 
 Political experts said that opposition may go for alliance in these bypolls as the parties will be able to test political waters and assess the traction a united opposition gets against BJP.
  
  
 They further point out that all opposition parties are keeping their cards close to their chests and hints at the beginning of hard bargaing among them.
 
 SP chief spokesperson, Rajendra Chaudhary said that the party is open to alliance. “We want the entire opposition to come together to defeat BJP in bye-elections and then in Lok Sabha elections next year. In the current scenario, SP is the principal opposition party and therefore all should support it,” Chaudhary told TOI.
 
 Sources said that SP is focussing more on Gorakhpur where its candidate Rajmati Nishad managed to get more than 21% votes against Yogi Adityanath. SP insiders say that the party would perform better if gets support from other parties.
 
 BSP may also stake claim in Gorakhpur since its candidate Ram Bhual Nishad got over 16% votes. But sources in the party said that the focus will be on Phulpur which has a sizeable number of Dalits and MBCs.
 
 “Things are yet to be worked out though,” said a senior BSP functionary on the condition of anonymity.
 
 Congress leadership too views the bypoll as an opportunity to challenge the might of BJP in UP, especially after a relative good show in Gujarat and its win in LS bypoll on two LS seats in Rajasthan. Congress, political experts said, too would like to stitch an alliance with other opposition parties given its poor performance in Gorakhpur and Phulpur in the last general elections.
 
