Manesar, synonymous with automation, innovation, patents and other manufacturing jargon, is probably the unlikeliest place to make news for its choice of tipple.

 But last week, the Haryana government tweaked its excise policy in the automobile industry district to answer to the   and predilections of the sizable Japanese   and allowed bars, hotels and guesthouses to sell exclusively wine and beer. 
 
 The change followed a request from expat hotelier Keiji Nakajima, who runs a hotel in Manesar, and wanted a licence that both suited the preferences of his Japanese clientele and made his business profitable. 
 
 The policy tweak was a pragmatic decision, a way of making the Japanese — a historically guarded people — feel more welcome in an environment that materially, psychologically and gastronomically, is far removed from theirs.
 
 In Haryana, only Gurugram, Faridabad and Panchkula have an option to acquire L-10 (E), the licence that allows bars to serve purely wines and beers. Within the municipal limits of these three places, it is permitted to open a bar, pub or hotel that exclusively caters to oenophiles and lovers of the frothy stuff. “If you don’t want to take up a full licence, you can take up a wine and beer licence,” said Pawan Soni, an ex-restaurateur, foodie, and the man behind popular online collective Indian Food Freak.
 
 As the industrial township has expanded on both sides of NH-8, many Japanese have settled in Manesar. But more so than other expats, the Japanese like to stick together, and not be too far from home comforts. So, there are hotels and guesthouses that indulge them. “In some places, everything is written in Japanese, and the crowd that frequents these places is also Japanese,” said Soni.
 
 After a hard day’s work, members of the Japanese business   in Manesar, employed chiefly with the automotive and automotive-ancillary industries, like to unwind over a few drinks, or gather for a knees-up with their fellow countrymen. They are, as many have attested, fond of a drink or three. “It’s good if the government is taking a positive stance on the investors coming in because Manesar as such is a hub for a lot of Japanese companies,” said Lalit Ahlawat, director, Striker Group, and Soi Hospitality Pvt Ltd.
 
 Nakajima (74) runs Misaki hotel, the name a tribute to his first granddaughter. Besides, he owns a restaurant called Manami (named after his second granddaughter), located on the ground floor of the adjacent building — a quaint place with barely five-six tables.
 
 Nakajima hoped that his intervention will encourage others to open restaurants, now that cheaper liquor licences are available. He entered the hospitality business at the request of his fellow Japanese, though this isn’t the first time he has interceded on behalf of Manesar. “Earlier, Japanese guests had to survive on McDonalds alone!” he joked, in a conversation with TOI at his Gurugram residence.
 
 Nakajima revealed that he had spoken to excise officials and procured the bar permit (L-4, L-5), for restaurants in Manesar in 2016, when the permit was restricted to hotels with three or more stars. “After we got the liquor licence for the restaurant and started serving, we were making losses and were not able to break even. That’s why we applied to get the special licence (L-10E), which is much cheaper.”
 
 Indeed, the fine-tuning of the excise policy is aimed as much at local restaurateurs as it is at the Japanese and other expats like the Koreans and Chinese. With L-4 and L-5, owners and proprietors of bars, pubs and other such establishments would be forced to charge more for wines and beers, since they’re spending on the full licence but only serving wine and beer.
 
 Nakajima said it had been a struggle to stay afloat, and he even contemplated closing down the restaurant, but chose to carry on out of a love for India. He yearns to make Japanese visitors to the Manesar area feel at home, and now intends to get the licence for both his Manesar restaurants (and the one in a Gurugram mall).
 
 Only, Nakajima hopes no bureaucratic hurdle will come in the way of his ambitions. “Haryana is a great place for doing business because of its location. I tell people about it whenever I go to Japan and meet businessmen, whose stay would be limited mostly to Gujarat, Chennai and Rajasthan,” he said.
 
 A bit of Japan in Manesar
 
 Hidden behind a line of tall white-panelled buildings, the four-star Misaki hotel functions as a hub for Japanese visitors. According to hotel staff, they either stay here or in the Savoy suites located on the other side of IMT Manesar. But Misaki, the duty manager told TOI, also receives Indian guests, as well as Korean and Chinese visitors.
 
 A Japanese show is playing on a TV in the Misaki lobby, which is scattered with colourful booklets. The bar here serves a variety of spirits. “The Japanese only prefer drinking beer. They are light drinkers and most of them have to take a beer with their meals,” said a member of the hospitality staff. “Indian guests who accompany them sometimes drink wine. The Japanese don’t even request wine, leave alone other hard drinks,” he added.
 
 Kinji, a Japanese chef, is the manager of Manami. Initially wary of talking, Kinji gradually warmed up, saying that the restaurant did once sell liquor but had to stop because of permit issues. Kinji revealed that 90% of his clients were Japanese but they have, of late, started hosting several Indian guests.
 
 Manami, which serves authentic Japanese, is hidden from view. With no signs outside the building, it would be next to impossible for someone to happen upon it by chance. Even when it comes to locating Misaki hotel, Google Maps is of little help, leaving visitors unawares about the existence of the unique establishment here (unless security guards direct them).
 
 
