MANGALURU: Opposing the untimely transfer of   SP C H Sudheer Kumar Reddy, Tuluvas have launched a Twitter campaign to exert pressure on the government to cancel his transfer. 

 Reddy was posted as Dakshina Kannada SP seven months ago. Within three months, he learnt Tulu, the local language of the district, to understand the pulse of the people and their grievances better.
 
 As the news of Reddy’s transfer spread,  , a local group, has launched a Twitter campaign to retain him in the district. Interestingly, Reddy is the first police officer in Dakshina Kannada on whom a section of the people have bestowed the ‘Singham’ title for his bravery in handling issues without succumbing to political pressure.
 
 The hashtag #WeWantSudheerReddy was trending throughout Sunday. As Reddy’s action against the sand mafia is held to be the reason for his transfer in just seven months, twitterati has vented its anger against the politicians for allegedly getting the officer transferred.   with the tweets in this connection is another hashtag #SaveTulunad, sending across a message that the people of Dakshina Kannada believe Reddy is the man for the land.   Tuluve, one of the founding members of Jai Tulunad, said he wanted the hashtag to trend so that the people across the country get to know how politicians treat honest officers in this country.
 
 “We know he has been transferred. We want him back. He, as an SP, did what no other bureaucrat has done to Tulunadu. He not only learnt Tulu but also the script. Name one politician born in the district who can write his or her own name in Tulu,” he challenged. “Reddy busted the sand mafia. He effectively checked communal tension in his limits. He did everything right and now he’s transferred,” Ashwath lamented.
 
 Speaking to TOI, SP Reddy said he was aware of the campaign. However, he refrained from commenting saying he was not supposed to do so. “I am aware about the campaign. However I cannot speak. I shouldn't,” he said.
 
 Reddy is posted as the SP of Belagavi
 
 
