RANCHI: The ghost of fodder scam returned to torment   a third time on Thursday when a special   court sentenced him along with another former   CM   and others to five years in jail in a case related to the embezzlement of Rs 37.62 crore of public money which was supposed to be spent on the upkeep of livestock. 

 The court which fined Lalu and Mishra Rs 10 lakh handed down similar prison term and penalties to former MPs Jagdish Sharma and R K Rana.   exchief secretary Sajal Chakrabarty, who also was found guilty, sentenced to four years’ rigorous imprisonment and fined Rs 2 lakh along with two former senior IAS officers Phool Chand Singh and Mahesh Prasad. 
 
 Lalu is currently serving a term of three and a half years at Birsa Munda Central Jail in a fodder scam related case related to embezzlement of money from the Deoghar treasury. Special CBI judge S S Prasad said Lalu’s prison terms would run concurrently and the time already spent in jail in connection with this specific case would be deducted from his term in prison. 
 
 Despite the fact that Lalu had already been convicted twice, the third conviction should hurt him. Three convictions from three different courts can undercut his claim that he was victim of apolitical frame -up. Also, conviction of former chief minister Jagannath Mishra is a blow to the allegation of Lalu camp that the RJD strongman was being penalised because he belonged to a socially backward caste. 
 
 Significantly, Mishra had been convicted along with Lalu when the court pronounced Lalu guilty the first time in a fodder scam-related case in 2013. He is accused in three other cases arising from the mega swindle of public money which went on for decades before being busted by alert officers — something which put a spanner in the works of the former Bihar CM when he was being seriously considered as aPM probable. 
 
 Unlike Lalu and Mishra and a few others, those sentenced to three years were allowed to apply for a bail bond by the court on two sureties of Rs 20,000 each. Of the remaining five politicians convicted in the case, Jagannath Mishra, Jagdish Sharma and R K Rana have been charged under similar sections and sentenced to equal terms, while former BJP MLA who served as public accounts committee chairman, Dhruv Bhagat, and Vidya Sagar Nishad, who was Bihar’s animal husbandry minister, have been sentenced to shorter jail terms. 
 
 The court showed some leniency towards the women convicts. Madhu Mehta, Chanchala Sinha, Anita Prasad and Nirmala Prasadwere sentenced to three years each and fined a cumulative Rs 80,000 each.
 
