The increasing number of people with chronic conditions, such as type 2   mellitus (T2DM); is a matter of concern for health care systems. The total number of people with diabetes is projected to rise from 171 million in 2000 to 366 million in 2030. Earlier known causes of T2DM include environmental, lifestyle and psychosocial factors such as depression and stress. Recently, a new study has identified social isolation as one of the culprits in the development of T2DM. 

 A Dutch study conducted by scientists at Maastricht University has confirmed that people who are at risk of developing T2DM can lower this risk by increasing socialization. The study concludes that loneliness and unsocial nature especially in pre-diabetic men can raise the risk of T2DM development.
 
 The research included medical data from around 3000 people aged between 40 and 75. Of these, 1623 were non-diabetic, 430 were pre-diabetics, 111 were recently diagnosed diabetics and 697 were pre-existing type 2 diabetics. Results showed people who do not socialize are 60 % more prone to develop pre-diabetes; especially single men are at a higher risk. Single men who do not socialize regularly are 59% more likely to develop pre-diabetes and 84% more likely to develop T2DM. For women, there were no significant similar findings. However, women who did not involve in social activities had 112% elevated risk of T2DM.
 
 According to Stephanie Brinkhues, the lead author, this is the first study to determine the association of a broad range of social network characteristics such as social support, network size or type of relationships with different stages of type 2 diabetes. The study emphasizes the idea of resolving social isolation to prevent the development of T2DM.
 
 The research did not resolve why social isolation led to a greater risk of type 2 diabetes. Probably, people with early stages of type 2 diabetes may feel less motivated to go out and socialize.
 
 Dr. Miranda Schram, the co-author of the study suggests that people who are at high risk for developing T2DM should expand their network by making new friends; enroll in a recreation and sports club, involve with voluntary work etc.
 
 The simple formula to prevent diabetes is to take a healthy diet, exercise regularly and be happy. 
 
 
 
 
