NAGPUR: SSC students heaved a sigh of relief after appearing for English exam, the second paper of the series held on Thursday.

 Many children were not able to finish the language paper on time, but the feedback from other students indicated that they not only wrapped up before the deadline but also had time in hand to recheck and edit their answer sheet.
 
 Veronica Rodriguez, senior English teacher at St Joseph’s Convent, said, “The paper was a piece of cake for English medium students and I’m sure they would score high. It didn’t pose many challenges as mostly predictable and basic questions were asked. There were a lot of 1-mark objectives too where students could grab brownie points.”
 
 “The passages were easy to comprehend and even the grammar section did not have twists and turns. The creative writing section too had interesting topics which could trigger the imagination of students,” she added.
 
 Students who don’t have expertise in grammar techniques would have faced slight trouble in going ahead with that part, but comprehensions were liked by all.
 
 Student   said, “It was an easy paper. Due to my preparations before time and help from my prior practice, I had no difficulty in answering any question. I finished my paper before time, and got a lot of time to recheck it before submitting. I was calm and composed throughout the three hours, so that was a plus point.”
 
  said, “English was not a tough nut to crack. I attempted all the questions and am confident about my performance. In grammar, we have a do-or-die situation and I was nervous about it. But I was well acquainted with grammar questions too and I could nail it. I tried to maintain neatness to impress the valuer and finished the paper on time. The test series of the school and in tuitions classes helped a lot to improve the speed.”
 
  said, “It was good paper. Vocabulary and grammar was simple and interesting. Hints in paragraph writing were easier than expected. The questions were from the syllabus and I had practice all the question’s format many times. I completed the overall paper before time. I perfectly solved the question based on report writing and interview. I am hoping for a good score.”
 
 Paper Rating
 
 Toughness: Easy
 
 Questions’ relevance: Straightforward 
 
 Paper Length: Proper
 
 
