LUDHIANA: After making headlines for his ability to write beautifully with his foot, 11-year-old   of Sahauli village has got the support of a private school that has adopted him and his friend Sunny for their further studies. The duo will be studying free of cost in the school until Class 12. Moreover, the books, notebooks, and uniforms have also been provided by the school.

 On Saturday,   and Sunny attended the first day in Class 6 in   Convent School in Pandori village. Kamaljeet, son of a labourer, was a student of Class 5 in   in Sahauli village when TOI reported about Kamaljeet — who has a congenital problem with the movement of his hands and legs — not only completes his exam in time, but had also topped his class in the previous academic year.
 
 A charming boy, Kamaljeet used to sit on a mat in his classroom along with his friend Sunny, who used to help him by opening his bag, sharpening his pencil, feeding him, and bringing water for him. However, on Saturday, the well-dressed duo were sitting in their new uniforms on the first bench of their class in the new school. Their shifting from a government school to a well-designed private school has made them overjoyed.
 
 Kamaljeet said: “It is such a big and beautiful school. Everyone speaks in English, and even I want to learn it. I have got new uniform and books today. I am happy to study in a private English medium school. I am more happy that Sunny is also with me. He helps me in all my work, and is more like a companion. We both are excited to study here.”
 
 The chairman of Golden Earth Convent School, Baldev Krishan Arora, said: “I read about Kamaljeet in a newspaper. I was so inspired by him, so I sent two of my teachers to his school. They saw him writing beautifully with his foot. Then a few days later, I again sent two teachers who gave the feedback that Kamaljeet had a lot of potential. Then, I approached his family for adopting him. The boy is so brave and charming. He just needs some assistance, and would certainly set examples for many others.”
 
 Further, while giving admission to Kamaljeet, the school also decided to give admission and free education to his friend Sunny also. “Sunny is Kamaljeet’s hands, and so how could we leave him. Sunny completed Kamaljeet. This another example of selflessness,” added Arora. School principal P Kumar Thakur said: “Kamaljeet used to sit on a mat on the floor. However, we have called a carpenter to make a separate sitting arrangement for Kamaljeet. Besides, special teachers will also be approached if needed.”
 
 The school has also arranged a free bus transportation for Kamlajeet and Sunny, as the school is about 13km away from their village. Further, Sunny said: “I never thought I would study in such a big, English medium school. I am happy to come here with Kamaljeet. I will never leave him.” Sunny’s father Umesh Sahni, a migrant labourer, said: “I was not aware of the friendship of Sunny and Kamaljeet. When the school teachers approached us, then I came to know that Sunny used to help Kamaljeet in school. I am so glad that because of Kamaljeet, my son would also study in this school.” 
 
 
