HYDERABAD: The Comptroller and Auditor General ( ) of India has found several irregularities in Information Technology (IT) and Industries department projects, including T-Hub phase-II and IMAGE (Innovation in Multimedia, Animation, Gaming and Entertainment) Tower and has recommended investigation into them. 

 According to the CAG, there are irregularities in the selection of consultants for construction of phase-II of T-Hub, and  , which have caused an additional financial burden of 16.7 crore on the state exchequer.
 
 The total estimated contract value (ECV) of construction of T-Hub at   under Phase-II was 160 crore.   ( ), which quoted 5 per cent in excess of the ECV, was entrusted with the work for 168 crore.
 
 TSIIC accorded approval for enhancement of rates at request of KPCPL with impact of ₹16.4 crore. CAG said undue benefit of ₹13 crore was already paid out of this. “Matters need to be investigated and responsibility fixed,” the report said.
 
 CAG observed change in payment clause with the consultant while concluding the agreement led to an additional commitment of ₹5 crore in IMAGE Tower project. Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation changed Clause 5 including words “excluding service tax” in agreement. This resulted in undue commitment of ₹5 crore, CAG said.
 
 After changing IMAGE tower site from Hyderabad Knowledge City to Game City, TSIIC closed contract with CR Narayana Rao, LLP, for reasons not on record and appointed a new consultant. This led to commitment of ₹15 crore.
 
 CAG said land parcels offered by department lacked amenities due to which IT firms did not come forward and there were no land allotments in five years. The IT department did not monitor development of infrastructure. “Infosys Technologies Ltd did not take up development in 296 acres (Phase II and III) of 446 acres allotted in May 2007. Wipro utilised only 9 out of 101.03 acres at Gopanapally allotted in June 2007,” the report said. IT Industrial Corridor remained a non-starter. Two firms which were to play a key role in development of the semi-conductor industry in ‘Fab City’ failed to promote the industry. Of 1,075 acres for Fab City, 712 acres were unused.
 
 
 
 
