The   government’s deaddiction centres have not registered a significant decline in patients of substance abuse, particularly of heroin, in last one year.

 In Amritsar, number of addicts arriving at the government’s Vivekananda Drug De-addiction and Treatment Centre is almost the same as about a year ago. However, after launch of Outpatient Opioid Assisted Treatment (OOAT) centres, many patients prefer to go there for their daily dose of Buprenorphine, an opioid used to treat the opioid addiction, as they don’t have to pay for it. In October, the government launched   centres and 9 such centres have already been set up in Amritsar district, but another one proposed for the Amritsar jail is yet to come up.
 
  
 “We are still getting 30 to 35 patients a day,” Dr  , the incharge of the centre, told TOI. The centre provides both agonist and antagonist therapies to the addicts under which Buprenorphine, and Naltrexone, an opioid antagonist, are used to treat patients with 60-70% efficacy. The government drug deaddiction centres also provide psychotherapy and counseling to the patients, according to Dr PD Garg, former head of the centre and psychiatry HOD at the Guru Nanak Dev Medical Hospital.
 
 “The idea is to provide Buprenorphine to the drug addicts at their doorstep which is not only prevents them from hassles at the drug deaddiction centre in the city but also to conceal their identity,” said Garg, adding that in his opinion, the biggest achievement of the government was the opening of OOAT centres.
 
 “The treatment should have been completely free of cost,” said a drug addict, a resident of   and a commission agent, who rued that every patient has to pay Rs 250 a day for treatment. The centre earns money by charging patients for their stay and for Buprenorphine doses to pay support staff not covered by government grant.
 
 About 1-2% drug addicts are female and majority of female addicts at the de-addiction centre have been from lower socio-economic strata. “We normally isolate them from male drug addicts and admit them to the psychiatry ward. We also seek their family’s support,” said Garg.
 
 
