HYDERABAD: The Telangana government has upgraded 21 nagar panchayats into municipalities. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s assembly constituency headquarters Gajwel, Pedda Amberpet and Badangpet in the city limits were among the panchayats which have been elevated as municipalities.

 Officials said this move was taken to provide better infrastructure, roads, underground drainage system and strengthen them financially by tapping funds from the Centre.
 
 According to a government order, the other new municipalities are Narasmpet, Sattupally, Vemulawada, Ibrahimpatnam, Huzurnagar, Jammikunta, Nagarkurnool, Parakala, Huzurabad, Madhira, Husnabad, Atchampet, Ieeja, Devarakonda, Kollapur, Andole-Jogipet, Badepally and Jammikunta. Principal secretary, municipal administration,   said these nagar panchayats have been upgraded based on their income.
 
 Apart from upgradation of 21 nagar panchayats, the government is also considering creation of nearly 70 municipalities in a couple of weeks. Senior officials said that by upgrading the nagar panchayats into municipalities, the government can post senior officials as municipal commissioners. Besides, the municipalities can tap funds from the Union ministry of urban development.
 
 Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao said in the assembly on Saturday that anumber of new municipalities are being finalised and the government will announce as and when they are ready. “While the average urban population in the country is 30 per cent, it is 42 per cent in Telangana. Urban local bodies are being strengthened for providing better facilities, infrastructure and ensure planned growth,” the minister said.
 
 He confirmed that taxes in urban local bodies will be high when compared to panchayats, as they are intended at providing better facilities.
 
 Earlier, TDP MLA R Krishnaiah raised the question in the assembly during question hour on creation of new municipalities.
 
 He said the government should place the proposal before the village gram sabha and take a decision. “There is fear among the people that along with the facilities, tax will also go up. The government should ensure quality work,” he added.
 
