As the end of academic year 2017- 18 is just around the corner, students are already running from poles to pillars to choose their further education and make plans for further studies.  While the board exams for Class 12 will end only by March-April, students need to start applying for further studies in early 2018 itself as applications for majority of degree and professional courses are out by February. Take a look at the popular entrance exam details to get admission in different reputed colleges and courses.  Here is a list of courses with their exam dates:  Admission to MBBS/BDS  Class 12 with Physics, Chemistry and Biology  December, January  Online  http://aipmt.nic.in/aipmt/Welcome.aspx  Admission in Bachelor of Veterinary Science and Animal Husbandry (B.V.Sc. & A.H) degree courses in Veterinary Colleges   Class 12 with Physics, Chemistry and Biology   January, February  Online, By Post www.vci.nic.in/forms/default.aspx  Admission to MBBS  Class 12 with Physics, Chemistry and Biology  April, May  Online, By Post  www.upumcwa.org/index_ug.htm Admission to MBBS  Class 12 with Physics, Chemistry and Biology  May Online, By Post  www.aiimsexams.org/   Admission to MBBS  Class 12 with English, Physics, Chemistry and Biology  June-July Online  http://admissions.cmcvellore.ac.in/   Admission to MBBS  Class 12 with English, Physics, Chemistry and Biology  June-July  Online  http://cmcludhiana.in/   Admission to MBBS  Class 12 with English, Physics, Chemistry and Biology  May  Online  www.comedk.org/    Admission to MBBS  Class 12 with Physics, Chemistry and Biology June Online  http://jipmer.edu.in/   Admission to MBBS  Class 12 with Physics, Chemistry and Biology  June  Online  www.admissions.manipal.edu   Admission to MBBS Class 12 with Physics, Chemistry and Biology  July, August  Online  www.mgims.ac.in/    Admission to MBBS  Class 12 with Physics, Chemistry and Biology  May, June  Online  www.amu.ac.in/   Admission to MBBS  Class 12 with Physics, Chemistry and Biology May, June, July  Online  http://bhuonline.in/  For Admission in B. E./B. Tech., B. Arch., B. Planning  Class 12   November, December  Online  http://jeemain.nic.in/jeemainapp/Welcome.aspx  Admission in UG programmes in IITs and ISM Dhanbad  Class 12 with Physics, Chemistry and Maths May  Online  http://jeeadv.iitd.ac.in/ Admission in Integrated First Degree programmes in BITS Pilani, Goa and Hyderabad campus.  12 with Physics, Chemistry and Maths   January, February  Online  www.bitsadmission.com/  Board Toppers can join directly  Admission in B Tech Courses  Class 12 January, February  Online, By Post  www.vit.ac.in  Admission in Engineering and Architecture courses   Class 12 May  Online, By Post  www.comedk.org/    Admission in Engineering courses   Class 12  May  Online, By Post  www.ipu.ac.in   Admission in B.Tech courses   Class 12  May  Online, By Post www.admissions.manipal.edu    Admission in Engineering courses   Class 12 April, May  Online  www.amucontrollerexams.com/  Admission in IISc Banglore in 4 year BS Degree Class 11, 12, UG, PG  July to September  Online, in Person, By Post  http://kvpy.iisc.ernet.in/main/index.htm Admission in 5 year integrated M.Sc. programme in Biological, Chemical, Mathematical and Physical sciences in NISER or UM-DAE CBS  Class 12 with Physics, Chemistry, Maths and Biology  January to March  Online, By Post www.nestexam.in/ Admission in B Stat (Hons), B Math (Hons), M Stat, M Math, MS (QE), MS (LIS), M Tech (CS), M Tech (QROR) and Research Fellowships Class 12 with Maths and English  January, February  Online, By Post  www.isical.ac.in/index.php  Courses in BSc, MSc, PhD in Mathematics, Computer Science and Physics streams Class 12 or Equivalent  Online, In Person  www.cmi.ac.in/ Admission in Army and Air Force wings of NDA and 4 years B. Tech course for the Indian Naval Academy Course (INAC) Class 12 Online  www.upsc.gov.in/ Admission in Indian Navy B.Tech course  Class 12  December, January  Online  www.nausena-bharti.nic.in/index.php  Admission in 24 weeks Basic training at INS Chilka followed by Professional training  Class 12 with Maths and Physics/Chemistry/Biology/Computer Science  Online, By Post  www.nausena-bharti.nic.in/index.php  Technical Entry to Army  Class 12 with Physics, Chemistry and Maths  Online  www.joinindianarmy.nic.in/  Admission in Diploma in Nautical Science (DNS) leading to BSc. (Nautical Science)  Class 12 with Physics, Chemistry and Maths  November, December  By post  www.imu.edu.in/index.php  Admission in integrated Master of Arts (M.A.) programme  Class 12  December, January  Online http://hsee.iitm.ac.in/  Admission in B.A. Social Sciences programme in any of three Campuses i.e. Tuljapur, Guwahati and Hyderabad   Class 12  February to April Online  http://campus.tiss.edu/  Admission in Design, Management and Technology for the international fashion business Class 12 and Graduates  October to January  Online, By Post  www.nift.ac.in/  Admission to 4 year GDPD & 2.5 Year PGDPD  Class 12 and Graduate September, October  By Post  www.admissions.nid.edu/  Admission for BA (Hons.) in English, Arabic, French, German, Russian and Spanish BCJ, B.Ed. (English) Class 12, Graduate, Post Graduate  November to January Online  www.efluniversity.ac.in/  Admission in of three-year B.A. (Hons.) programme in Foreign Languages  Class 12, Graduate, Post Graduate  February, March  Online, By Post  www.jnu.ac.in/  Admission in B.A. LL.B (Hons), B.Com. (Hons), BBA LL.B (Hons) Class 12  January to April  Online, By Post  https://clat.ac.in/ Admission in B.A.,LL.B (Hons), B.Com. (Hons), BBA LL.B (Hons)  Class 12, Graduates  November to April  Online  www.pearsonvueindia.com/lsatindia/ Admission in B.A., LL.B. (Hons.), LLM, PhD  Class 12, LLB, LLM February to April Online, By Post www.nludelhi.ac.in/  Admission in B.A., L.L.B- 5-year integrated course  Class 12 January to May  Online, By Post  www.lloydlawcollege.com    Admission in Class 6, 9 & 11, College  Class 5, 8, 10 Passed, 12 Passed (Only Girls) - February to May  Online, Post  www.banasthali.org    Admission in UG programmes in BHU  Class 12  March, April  Online, By Post  www.bhu.ac.in/  Admission in UG & Integrated, PG & Research Programmes  Class 12, UG  March, April  Online, By Post  www.cucet2014.co.in/    Admission in Bachelor, Master Degree Program, SRF (PGS) to Pursuing Ph.D in Agriculture and Allied Sciences at Agricultural Universities  Class 12, Graduate, Post Graduate  December to February  Online  www.icar.org.in/    Admission in B.Sc. Hospitality & Hotel Administration  Class 12  December to April  Online  www.nchmct.org/   a. Marine Engineering (MERI) Kolkata & B.Sc. Nautical Science Degree at T.S. Chanakya, Navi Mumbai) b. Shipping Corporation of India Ltd., Trainee Navigation Officers CADETS (TNOC) c. National Institute of Fashion Tech. (NIFT) for 6 Centres, New Delhi, Gandhi Nagger, Mumbai, Calcutta, Hyderabad, Chennai d. Welcome Group graduates School of Hotel Administration, Manipal, Bachelors Degree in Hotel Management e. Indian Navy’s Naval College of Engineering (Pune) SSB f. Fashion Apparel Designing, g. Maharshi Karve Street, Shikshan Sanstha, Pune h. School of Fashion Technology (In Collaboration with NIFT, Delhi) i. Hotel Management, Joint Entrance Exam for 19 Colleges for 3 years, Diploma Course j. Indian Institute of Technology Joint Entrance Examination IIT/JEE Advanced k. CBSE PMT (MBBS/BDS) Exam NEET l. Armed Forces Medical Colleges, Pune for MBBS m. Institute of Advanced Management, Hotel Management College, Kolkata (3 years Diploma Course) n. Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata,3 years B. Statistics (Hons.) o. AIIMS New Delhi p. Veterinary College All India Entrance Exam (Council of India 5% seats in Veterinary Colleges) q. Central Leather Research Institute, Adyar, Chennai r. Mahatma Gandhi Institutional Medical Sciences, Wardha MBBS Course & Rehabilitation s. MBBS/B. Pharma BHU All India Combined Competitive Written Entrance Test (PMT/PAT) Varanasi t. All India Common Entrance Exam for Admission to Agriculture & Allied Subjects including Veterinary Sciences u. pecial Class Railway Apprentices Exam v. Bachelor of Hospital Administration (BHA) 3 years after 12th from International Institute of Professional Studies, Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya, Indore (M.P) w. UPSC, NDA/NA Examination x. Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Uran Akademi Commercial Pilots Licence (CPL) Course y. Institute of Management Studies, Ghaziabad, Bachelor of Business Management z. Mumbai University, BMS (Bachelor of Management Studies)