NEW DELHI: A division bench of the   attached significance to the oath of office taken by elected representatives but differed on the crucial issue whether an elected member of a body could sign a   without taking oath.

 
 The issue related to a village panchayat in Uttar Pradesh. A year after the election of sarpanch, a no-confidence motion was moved by members. It was alleged that 13 panchayat members had not taken oath but had signed the motion. A petition was filed asking whether those who had not taken oath of office could be treated as valid members of the panchayat to sign such a no-confidence motion?
 
 A bench of Justices Madan B Lokur and Deepak Gupta attached significance to the oath of office but the two judges differed on the issue of a member, who had not taken oath, signing the no-confidence motion.
 
 Justice Lokur said the legal position on this question had been settled more than 100 years ago. He also cited a 1984 SC judgment in a case relating to an MLA, who had not taken oath, proposing a candidate for   elections. In the 34-year-old judgment, the SC had said once the name of the person was notified as elected by the  , he could propose a candidate for Rajya Sabha polls. “Consequently, there is no prohibition against an elected member from being a signatory to a no-confidence motion,” Justice Lokur said.
 
 However, Justice Gupta said the judgment cited by Justice Lokur did not deal with the business of the House as the MLA, who had not taken oath, was merely proposing the name of a candidate for RS elections. “What is the consequence of a member not taking oath? He does not cease to be a member but at the same time, he cannot take part in the business of the House,” Justice Gupta said.
 
 He said no-confidence motion was part of the business of the panchayat and hence, “an elected member who has not taken oath cannot move and be a signatory to such a no confidence motion... In my view, those members who have not taken oath and are, therefore, not entitled to vote at such no-confidence motion, cannot be held to be entitled or eligible to sign such a motion”.
 
 Justices Lokur and Gupta, however, said the legislature must make it mandatory for panchayat members to take oath within a stipulated time, as has been done in Tamil Nadu. “If the Constitution attached importance to the oath of office, why cannot legislations provide something similar to what Tamil Nadu has done?” the apex court asked.
 
 “Unless sanctity of the oath of office is appreciated and appropriate documentation (about oath taking) is kept, we will continue to be faced with such situations such as the present where a dispute is raised whether an elected member of a body has taken the oath office,” Justice Lokur said. 
 
 Justice Gupta said all oath taking/swearing-in should be videographed to avoid such disputes.
 
 
