MUMBAI: The BMC has decided to offer benefits of its soon-to-be-released Development Plan-2034 for the city to builders who, in the past few years or during the one year that the draft DP has been under discussion, carried out construction in excess of allotted floor space index (FSI).

 Such constructions will be regularized on payment of a penalty, provided the new DP allows for increased FSI on the plot. The city’s new development plan, which is expected to be cleared by the state government, offers more FSI than the existing DP-1991 (see graphic).
 
 This policy of regularizing   and allowing ongoing or incomplete projects to avail of benefits under the new DP is being termed as the transit policy.
 
 Senior officials stated that it would help to reduce corruption as civic engineers are often accused of demanding bribes from developers after first threatening to act against such constructions.
 
 The issue came up during the meeting of the scrutiny committee headed by secretary of the state government’s urban development department. BMC officials then suggested the transit policy and requested the government to add it to the proposed DP before clearing it for implementation.
 
 Officials of the BMC’s building proposals (BP) department have, along with civic chief Ajoy Mehta, had several rounds of meetings over the issue for the past few days.
 
 The BMC will also include a clause which will ensure that slumdwellers’ carpet area of 300 sq ft in rehabilitation buildings does not include the flat’s wall area. For other constructions, builders will be allowed to count the width of the internal wall as part of the total carpet area, which was not the case earlier.
 
 A civic engineer stated that apart from higher FSI, the proposed DP also provides other incentives on construction rights on a plot. He said, “In the existing DP, we calculate FSI after reducing 15% of the plot area for recreational activities for residents. But in the proposed DP, we calculate it on the basis of the entire plot, which will provide more construction rights on the plot.”
 
 Shirish Sukhatme of PEATA (Practising Engineers, Architects and Town Planners Associations) said, “Leniency will reduce corruption. Local officials always harass people for minor violations. The internal wall of a flat should not be counted in the carpet area, it’s not accepted anywhere. The common flat-buyer is going to suffer because of that.”
 
 
