From his debut show Butterflies aired on Asianet Plus to Flowers TV’s popular programme  ,   has come a long way in the television industry. 

 Apart from anchoring, he has also proved to be a versatile actor in his showbiz career. While celebrating the 100th episode of Comedy Utsavam, one of its chief judges Guinness Pakru aka actor Ajay Kumar had mentioned that if the show is a big ship then the host Mithun is its strong anchor. In a conversation with us, he talks about his popular show, career as an RJ in Dubai, his acting ventures and more.
 
 
 
 I always aspired to be in the media field from a young age. Soon after college, I was lucky to host my first television show, Butterflies, which was a campus programme aired in the early 2000s. Later I got to host many more TV and stage shows as well. The turning point in my life was the interview with actress Abhirami on Surya TV, which many liked. The shows like Little Masters on Asianet in 2001 and many serials followed. Most of the roles I played in serials had the shades of grey, but theymade me a familiar face to the family audience. My villainous role in the serial Sthreejanman (Asianet) convinced director Joshiy sir to include me in his Dileep-starrer film Runway. Apart from being an actor and a host, I am also an RJ at a FM station in Dubai. Though a native of Thiruvananthapuram, I am settled in Dubai for the past 14 years with my wife Lakshmi Menon and our eight-year-old daughter Tanvi.
 
 
 
 During the initial episodes of the show, we were doubtful about the availability of talented artistes in Kerala. But as the show went on, we understood that the state is a storehouse of talented common man artistesn. Those who performed at the show informed more of their friends and through word of mouth, many more artistes came in. We do not have any age, sex or nativity based restrictions and our director Mithiilaj Abdul is very particular about it, just as I am. The programme also brought in a handful of physically challenged talents and I believe that giving them a platform to prove their skills with dignity, is the right way to empower them. 
 
 The show recently celebrated its 100th episode, on which we included all the participants who performed in the earlier episodes. After their first performances on the show, almost all have succeeded in getting many stage shows, even abroad! We do follow up with them and are in touch with our artistes. As part for the 100th episode's celebrations we have also kicked-off a Comedy Utsava yathra in which we would travel to rural and urban parts of all 14 districts in our state and conduct auditions. We began from Kasaragod on January 1, this year.
 
 
 
 I have come across many people who have said that Comedy Utsavam has changed their lives. Mani Thamara is such a contstant. He used to compose music for the late actor Kalabhavan Mani’s folk songs but kept a low profile. After his first performance on the show he received more stages. When he came to perform later, he told us, “Brother, it's after coming here that I had meals made of good quality rice, for the first time in my life!” The show taught me too many life lessons, and I could understand how privileged I am. Revealing the life stories of contestants have led to teary episodes often, but we don't want to play the sentimental violin background track and dramatise it. The show has helped me to focus more on realistic anchoring as well.
 
 
 
 At present I am committed to Comedy Utsavam only and I also work as the programme director of a Dubai-based FM radio. I also have two films in my kitty - Kuttanpillayude Shivarathri which will be released in March and Baby Sam, a children's movie directed by Jeevan Bose, in which I play the lead.
 
 
