PANAJI: A day after the Supreme Court passed an order revoking renewal of 88   leases in Goa, chief minister Manohar   said here on Thursday that the state government will not file a review petition but explore all possible options, including auctioning of mine leases, to maximise revenue for the state.

 Parrikar said the state will take a decision within the next six months and he was hopeful that mining operations will start in Goa from October. The Supreme Court, on Wednesday, ordered the mining companies to wind down their operations by March 15.
 
 “We are exploring all possible ways including auctioning of mining leases. I am not ruling out auction, but I am neither confirming it. There are multiple options which I don’t want to discuss at this stage,” he told reporters.
 
 Admitting that those dependant on mining would be impacted, Parrikar said: “We will try and work out how to start mining operations at the earliest.”
 
 Parrikar said that state may loss revenue of around Rs 400 crore over the apex court decision but he said he would be able to generate revenue through other means, including auctioning of balance iron  . TOI, on February 8, had published a report on how the state may lose Rs 400-450 crore in next two years from mining closure.
 
 “The Supreme Court order will have only temporary loss,” he said.
 
 Parrikar said he would discuss the Supreme Court judgment “properly” with all the relevant people. “The decision of the high court on renewing of mining leases has been set aside, so obviously leases granted under it also are set aside. The rest will be as per the law,” he said.
 
 In August 2014, the high court of Bombay at Goa had directed the state government to execute mining leases to those who had paid the renewal fees or stamp duty. It also asked the state to decide the pending second renewal applications of those leaseholders who had not paid the stamp duty. Several leaseholders had approached the high court seeking second renewal of mining leases.
 
 Parrikar said the state government did not challenge the high court order in 2014 as there was desperation to start mining as “thousands and thousands of people” were affected due to the ban imposed by the Supreme Court in 2012.
 
 The chief minister said interests of Goa would be protected while giving fresh mining leases. He said though there were some difficulties in auctioning of mining leases, the state government policy was moving towards auctioning of these leases.
 
 Parrikar said the state government has already started the process to recover Rs 1,500 crore from the mining companies. He said around 4 million tonnes of ore will be extracted till March 15 and it will be exported by May.
 
 A dozen more chargesheets will be filed in illegal mining case, Parrikar said.
 
 “After March 15, the mining companies will have to vacate the land,” he said. Parrikar also said the Supreme Court has said the case before its constitutional bench, challenging the abolition of mining concession, is irrelevant to this case.
 
 On Wednesday, hours after the Supreme Court quashed 88 leases granted by the state government in 2015, Parrikar had said the Supreme Court should have taken a decision on the 1987 abolition of concession case pending with it before passing judgment on the renewal of leases.
 
 THE MULTIPLE OPTIONS
 
 Auction the mining leases
 
 State forms a corporation, extracts ore & sells it to traders to export
 
 Continue with existing mining companies in accordance with the law
 
 
