TIRUPUR: The city police on Tuesday arrested eight people, including a former police constable, in connection with fake I-T raid conducted at the house of a knitwear unit’s owner on April 24.

 The accused had hatched a conspiracy after they found unit’s owner  , 45, actively involved in gambling in a leisure club. 
 
 Sivakumar, a resident of   near Neruperichal, has moved to his new house two years ago. He along with his wife Santhamani, 41, and two children were living there. 
 
 As Sivakumar’s house was in a secluded place on the outskirts of the city, six people entered his house impersonating themselves as I-T officials on April 24. Santhamani and her children were at the house when the ‘raid’ was conducted. Apart from ‘seizing’ 18 sovereigns of gold and Rs 4 lakh, they also managed to take away hard disk of three CCTV cameras fixed at the house. The Anupparpalayam police registered a case under various sections, including 170 (personating as public servant) and 420 (cheating), of the IPC.
 
 City police commissioner P Nagarajan formed a special seven-member team led by inspector K T Rajan Babu. While verifying the modus operandi, they found that it was matching with history-sheeter ‘Police’ Karthi alias S Karthi of Idayarpalayam in Coimbatore. He was a former police constable. The police were keeping a tab on Karthi. 
 
 Police investigations found that P Jayaram, 42, of Murattupalayam was often visiting a leisure club in the city. He noticed the opulent lifestyle of Sivakumar, a regular member of the club and heavy gambler. Jayaram and ‘Police’ Karthi have hatched a plan to rob money from Sivakumar. D Durai Sarguru and S Venugopal, the other visitors of the gambling club, also agreed to be part of the plan.
 
 As planned, seven people came in a SUV to Sivakumar’s house when he was not there and made away with the valuables and cash posing as I-T sleuths. Police arrested all eight accused and recovered 18 sovereigns of gold and Rs 1.45 lakh. The police also suspect that there could be another person involved in the case.
 
 
