BHOPAL: With just a day left for campaigning for  , both   and   are accusing each other of failing the voters. In Mungaoli, the parties took development agenda as the benchmark of success.

 Bypoll in Mungaoli was necessitated due to the death of sitting Congress MLA Mahendra Singh Kalukheda. With 13 candidates in fray, the main battle is between BJP’s Baisaab, wife of former MLA late Deshraj Singh Yadav and a close relative Brijendra Singh Yadav of Congress.
 
 Mungaoli assembly constituency has 1.91 lakh voters dominated by other backward classes (OBCs) and Schedule Castes and Tribals. The outcome of assembly by-poll will be watched keenly as it would be a pointer to the general mood in the state which is being ruled by the BJP since last 14 years.
 
 Mungaoli assembly, the only town of Ashoknagar, has a voter population of 1.91 lakh spread across 336 villages. Of the total, 1.02 lakh voters are males while 89,000 are females. The constituency has a total 264 polling stations, all rural. 
 
 Mungaoli has no industry though, country's premier Bina Oil Refinery is situated just 76 kms from the town. The famous Chanderi town known for its silk and handicraft is also 40 kms away. But, the livelihood of people here is agriculture. BJP and Congress have had representatives from the constituency for almost 10 years each, but, the town is yet to witness a green revolution.
 
 The district head quarter Ashoknagar and neighbouring districts of Guna and Shivpuri have moved to mechanised farming in the region courtesy, the farmers from Punjab.
 
 While, Congress-BJP attack each other over developmental issues, the ruling BJP's promise to fulfil the development in five months has been taken with a pinch of salt by the voters here. In what is being viewed as the sharpest attack against Congress, the BJP has put the entire blame of underdeveloped Mungaoli assembly over the erstwhile ruler and Congress’ leader Jyotiraditya Scindia. 
 
 Congress claims to have prepared infrastructure for power supply in all villages but, blame BJP for power interruptions. The party is confident of victory.
 
 For Scindia, retaining Mungaoli seat in his home turf is a matter of prestige as he is positioning himself as the chief ministerial face of the Congress in state. Aware of the high stakes involved, the Gwalior royal has been constantly touring the villages in a bid to ward off the saffron challenge turning the fight into Shivraj vs Maharaj.
 
 On its part, the BJP has dispatched a string of Union and state ministers for campaigning while the chief minister Chouhan has himself been hopping in and out of the region regularly. Apart from announcing a Mini Smart City, Chouhan has announced sops for tribals and poor through fixed power tariff and Rs 1000 per month to tribal women. 
 
 Campaigning in Mungaoli will end on Thursday at 5 pm while polling will be held on February 24.
 
 
