

 MUMBAI/PUNE: A day after the bicentenary of a British battle with the Peshwas— marked by Dalits as a momentous episode in their history— was marred by clashes between the commemorating group and right-wingers opposed to the event, violent protests by the Dalit community erupted across the state on Tuesday.
 
  
  
 While arterial roads and railway tracks in Mumbai’s eastern suburbs were blocked for over six hours, orders prohibiting unlawful assembly had to be issued in parts of Pune and Aurangabad to prevent crowds from forcing commercial establishments to down shutters.
 
 Ten lakh Dalits had turned up at Koregaon Bhima, near Pune, on Monday to mark 200 years of the clash in which the Mahar regiment, which signed up on the Raj’s side against the “casteist” Peshwas, had put up a valiant fight. Top Dalit leaders from Maharashtra were present, as were Gujarat’s new Dalit face Jignesh Mewani, AIMPLB member   and activist Umar Khalid.
 
 Police said 25 vehicles were torched by members of right-wing groups opposed to the gathering. They also damaged 50 vehicles by pelting stones. A 28-year-old youth died following the clash.
 
 While CM Devendra Fadnavis ordered a judicial inquiry into the Koregaon Bhima violence, a CID probe into the death of the Pune youth and compensation of Rs10 lakh for his family, his announcements failed to pacify Dalit leaders, with Prakash Ambedkar calling for a Maharashtra bandh on Wednesday. The Shiv Sena, known for enforcing bandhs in Mumbai, had till late Tuesday evening not issued any counter call.
 
 Congress president Rahul Gandhi tweeted that BJP’s “fascist vision” was to blame for increasing incidents of violence against Dalits. Rahul hailed Tuesday’s protests as “potent symbols” of Dalit resistance against the Modi government’s “anti-Dalit” policy. NCP chief   blamed the state government for inept handling of the situation in Koregaon Bhima.
 
  Though sections of the media reported the Koregaon clash was between   and Dalits, Ambedkar said that was not the case and blamed Hindutva groups with a Brahminical bias. He said the judicial probe was not acceptable and demanded it be conducted by a non-Dalit judge. 
 
 He blamed Sambhaji Bhide of Shivraj Pratishthan and   of Samasta Hindu Ekta Sabha for inciting Monday’s violence. Pune police on Tuesday booked Ekbote and Bhide for attempt to murder under the IPC and and under the Arms Act and Atrocities Act. 
 
 Pune city police transferred the ca-se to rural police at Shikrapur. Rajendra Kondhare of the Akhil Bharatiya Maratha Mahasangh, said, “There is no question of Maratha versus Dalit. In fact, Maratha groups had supported the commemoration. Sambhaji Brigade was active in facilitating the event. Some people are trying to confuse issues by mixing two matters. There was a dispute over aboard near Sambhaji Maharaj’s samadhi at Wadhu. But there was a compromise between Marathas and Dalits and the matter was settled much before the Koregaon Bhima event.” Union home minister Rajnath Singh spoke to Fadnavis. Sources said he may make a statement in Parliament. 
 
