CHENNAI: Nearly 10,000 people flocked to the Marina promenade to witness the 68th   parade on Friday. All routes to the venue were closed early morning with close to 1,000 policemen on guard.

 Festivities began with the arrival of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami; he was followed by governor Banwarilal Purohit who unfurled the Tricolour at 8am. The parade commenced with the ceremonial march past by contingents of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, ex-servicemen and   (CRPF). They were followed by the contingents of the state special force, commandos, forest department, fire service and prison department and the city police.
 
 
 Floats showcasing various department of the government moved down the Kamarajar Salai. The Nathaswaram float led the fleet to ‘mangala isai’ (auspicious music) played by students of Government Music College. To mark the centenary of M G Ramachandran, a statue of the late chief minister was showcased by the department of information and public relations. A flower-decorated float by the agriculture and horticulture departments was picked as the best of the 16 floats on display.
 
 Railway Protection Force (Egmore station) constable K Shanmugam won the Anna Medal for gallantry. Last July, Shanmugam risked his life to save a passenger who had tripped and fallen into a gap between the train (Dadar Express) and the platform. The special award for achieving the highest yield of paddy in the state was bagged by farmer R   from   village (Dharmapuri district). Munusamy said he employed the state-recommended system of rice intensification (SRI) method for cultivation. “Compared to the regular methods of cultivation, SRI helps farmers achieve an additional 25% yield. It also reduces water usage by at least 15%,” he said.
 
 I Sadiq Basha, a trader by profession, bagged the Kottai Ameer Communal Harmony Award for his repeated efforts in resolving communal conflicts between the Hindu and Muslim communities in Tiruvannamalai. Basha, who heads office in several social organisations, told TOI, “I was inspired by former president Abdul Kalam when I met him in 2006. He encouraged me to take up efforts to bring about communal harmony in Tiruvannamalai.”
 
 Gandhi Adigal Police Medal was given away to five policemen for their efforts in curtailing illicit liquor in the state.
 
 
 
 
 Fundamental right is nonnegotiable, but what about fundamental duties of citizens? Raising this question, Chief Justice of the Madras high court Justice Indira Banerjee said fundamental duties of every citizen was also as important as their rights, though they were non-enforceable. “We have a duty to renounce practices derogatory to the dignity of women, to protect and improve forests, lakes, rivers and wildlife, to have compassion for living creatures, to develop humanism, to safeguard public property and to obscure violence,” the chief justice said in her Republic Day address.
 
 This apart, we should pledge to have equal respect to all faiths, beliefs and religions, ensure equality of status and opportunity, ensure the dignity of individual, integrity of nation,” the Chief Justice added after surprising the gathering by welcoming them for over a minute in Tamil.
 
 “It is the duty of every citizen to abide by the Constitution, to respect the national flag and anthem, to uphold and protect the sovereignty, unity and integrity of India, to defend the country, to promote harmony and spirit of common brotherhood, transcending religious, linguistic and regional diversities,” she said.
 
