SHIMLA: At a time when the   (CBI) has already claimed to have solved the   rape and murder case with the arrest of a wood cutter,   director Alok Kumar Verma will file a personal affidavit on Tuesday before the Himachal Pradesh high court, saying that he has perused the status report and that he is satisfied with the progress made in the case.

 On April 25, a division bench of acting Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sandeep Sharma had asked the CBI director to file a personal affidavit.
 
 On March 28, the HC had directed Verma to personally remain present in the court on the next date of hearing. On April 25, the CBI counsel had submitted that in view of the fresh status report, the circumstances recorded prior to the directions issued in para-8 of order dated March 28, are no more in existence and as such, direction as such personal presence of the CBI director is no longer necessary and had requested the court to consider the prayer.
 
 The counsel had further submitted that pursuant to order dated December 20, 2017, the CBI director has already filed his affidavit stating the progress made in the case and that the status report placed on record during the course of hearing stands seen and approved by him.
 
 Referring to the submissions made by the CBI counsel, the court had observed that it is of the considered view that notwithstanding the statement made in the court, with regard to which court has no doubt, but nonetheless, it would be only prudent, in the given facts and circumstances, that the CBI director files his personal affidavit, stating that he has perused the said report (dated April 25) and that he is satisfied with regard to the progress made in the case. “For this limited purpose, we grant one week’s time for the needful to be done,” it had added.
 
 In a statement issued on April 25 itself, CBI had claimed that CBI director Alok Kumar Verma has been monitoring the progress of the case from day one and he expressed satisfaction on the work done by the investigative team and forensic experts of CFSL, CBI, for solving a sensitive and difficult case.
 
 Though the CBI claimed to have cracked the case, investigation in the case is still continuing.
 
 In July last year, a minor girl was raped and murdered in Kotkhai area of Shimla district. CBI arrested the accused on April 13 from a village near Hatkoti in Shimla. CBI had registered two cases on July 22 last year on the orders of high court.
 
 
