Noida: Residents of Sector 77 are living in fear as attacks by monkeys have increased in the last two months, but action is yet to be taken. 

 One attack was reported every day by residents of Express Zenith apartments in the sector since the beginning of this week, due to increased number of monkeys (about four or five in the society). 
 
 A   attacked a domestic help at the entrance of the society gates on Wednesday. The woman was eventually rescued by security guards. A 74-year-old woman was also attacked on Monday in the society while she was out for her morning walk. She fell while trying to flee and suffered injuries to her head and elbows. The most grave attack occurred on Tuesday when another resident Kirti Saxena was attacked by a monkey and received a third degree injury on the leg. She is currently at her relatives’ place in Delhi as the 7-8 injections she received were not available in Noida. 
 
 Residents complain they are unable to step out on their balconies and corridors while children are forced to stay indoors. Kirti’s husband  , who is also with her in Delhi at present, said, “On Tuesday my wife was bitten by a monkey. The doctor said it was a grade 3 bite (quite deep). She had gone to pick up my daughter with our three-year-old son. It was quite traumatic for both of them. My child is still in shock. Also, the treatment was quite painful, lengthy and tedious, and some of the injections are only available in government hospitals in Delhi.”
 
 Kiran Jugran, another resident of the society, told TOI that her mother-in-law faced a similar ordeal earlier on Monday. “My 74-year-old mother-in-law was out for her morning walk around 6.30 am on Monday when she was attacked by a monkey. She managed to flee but fell and hurt her hand, elbows and head. Though nothing major happened she is still under observation. The problem has increased in last couple of months,” said Jugran who has stopped taking her five-year-old son to the park. 
 
 More complaints have come from neighbouring societies, including Elite Homes, Griha Pravesh, Civitech Sampriti and Prateek Wisteria. 
 
 Residents have tweeted to police and  , but Deepak Kumar Jha resident of Elite Homes, claimed the problem in the neighbourhood is not new. “Though there have been few simians in the area since last year, the problem has increased since January as there are more six of them and two of them are quite large,” said Jha. 
 
 The area comes under district forest officer (DFO) H B Girish who claimed not much could be done due to lack of funds and trained staff to catch the monkeys. However, he has assured help by way of offering permission to deploy private monkey catchers. “You cannot catch monkeys without the DFO’s permission. There are few monkey catchers who are doing this independently. But, they too need the DFO’s permission,” said  , a resident.
 
 
