Even as   in the city has been erratic due to ongoing   construction and diversions, the hardships of commuters have increased since the last few days because of the ‘Holikas’ that have been put up at crossings ahead of Holi.

 These ‘holikas’ are not only causing obstruction in smooth movement of traffic but are also leading to a number of accidents, revealed a reality check by TOI.
 
 
 
  
 
 As per the guidelines of district administration, ‘holikas’ must not be installed in congested areas, at crossings, below electric wires and should not be very high. But the guidelines can be seen being flouted openly in the state capital.
 
 Some of the major crossings, including those in Mahanagar, Vikasnagar, Gomtinagar, Aliganj and Jankipuram have been blocked by ‘holikas’.
 
 The commuters who have been facing troubles said that they had complained to the police but it went in vain as no action was taken.
 
 Narrating his painful experience,   who met with an accident on the Akbarnagar turn leading to Mahanagar because of the holika there, told TOI, “On Friday night, I was returning from from Sarvodaynagar after a party and was passing by the Akbarnagar police outpost when a stray dog hiding in the holika suddenly snapped at my feet. I lost balance in panic and fell down. I got injured. But who is to be blamed?”
 
 In another such incident, a commuter   was chased by a herd of stray cattle that had assembled near the collection of wood in Vikasnagar. Numerous commuters also complained of remaining stuck in traffic because of the holikas.
 
 A class XI student of CMS, Aditi Nigam, said, “The   crossing is already very crowded always and now this collection of wood logs in the middle of the crossing further adds to the traffic chaos when our school gets over.”
 
 In one such instance, commuters got stuck in traffic jam on   crossing in Aliganj caused by holika.
 
 Suketu Mishra, who was trapped in the jam, dialled UP 100 but no assistance came and he remained stuck for half-an-hour. When TOI asked ASP (Traffic) RS Nim about permissions being granted for holika dahan in the middle of busy crossings, he said, “We conducted a check and identified 30 such spots. We will deploy one cop at these spots to regulate traffic.”
 
 Responding to TOI query, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “This has come to my notice and I will try to find a feasible way out.”
 
