NAGPUR: None of the seven MLAs or any of the three MPs, who represent the district, were present for the Kharif planning meeting of   on Monday at the district headquarters. More shocking and unprecedented was that district guardian minister Madan Yerawar, who had called for the meeting, skipped it. The joint guardian minister   also played truant.

 Yavatmal district is epicentre of farmers’ suicides in the country. Last year, 44 persons had died after inhaling toxic pesticide fumes while spraying in cotton fields and there was a huge controversy as to how illegal ‘BG-III’ (herbicide resistant, but not yet approved genetically-modified cotton seeds) found their way into the fields.
 
 Kharif is the main season and cotton is the preferred cash crop of the district. The farm crisis and consequent economic distress are believed to have resulted from lack of crop planning that comprises arranging supply of genuine and adequate stocks of seeds, fertilizers, insecticides, pesticides, arranging for farm credit after assessing the estimated crop area and pattern. This has to be done days before the onset of monsoon in June.
 
 The meeting started at 11am in the absence of ministers concerned and Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission president Kishore  , who is also native of the district, presided over. Sundry officials from zilla parishad and agriculture department were present. Soon, there was commotion when Congress MLC and deputy chairman of the state legislative council Manikrao Thakre arrived and raised question over the meeting being held in the absence of the two ministers, Yerawar and Rathod.
 
 “I was aghast. I have never seen such irresponsible behaviour. Yerawar should have been here at the meeting. Can there be anything more urgent that the Kharif meeting, which is an annual affair. If there was any problem, he could have rescheduled the meeting. I was present for some time and gave my suggestions and an advice that Yerawar should reconvene this meeting,” a fuming Thakre told TOI.
 
 More intriguing was that Union minister of state for home  , part of whose constituency is in Yavatmal, instead of attending Kharif meeting, called for another meeting at Wani for which the local MLA Sanjiv Reddy (Wani) had to stay back. Rathod ( ) said he was in Mumbai to look after his mother who was unwell. Raju Todsam (Arni), Manohar Naik (Pusad) and Rajendra Rahendra Najardhane (Umarkhed) could not be contacted but Ralegaon MLA Ashok Uike’s PA said his boss went to Mumbai despite the invite for Kharif meeting.
 
 Bhavna Gawali of Shiv Sena is the MP from Yavatmal-Washim constituency. She also did not find time to attend the meeting.  , MP from neighbouring Hingoli constituency, also has some parts his constituency in Yavatmal and was invited. Ahir had his own plans so none of the MPs turned up. Tiwari, however, managed to carry it on for two hours and many of the issues were deliberated.
 
 
