THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Actors   and Amala   appeared before the crime branch sleuths probing the   vehicle registration fraud case at the agency headquarters here on Monday. While   was arrested and released on bail, Paul was quizzed for more than two-and-a-half hours. 

 Gopi, who had earlier appeared before the crime branch probe team, was released on a surety of Rs 1 lakh and two individuals. The   MP had earlier moved high court seeking an anticipatory bail, and was granted a bail on December 15 for three weeks, which was subsequently extended by another one week on January 4.
 
 Meanwhile, Paul stuck to her stand that she did not intend to evade tax using a fake address in Puducherry and the address she had mentioned in the registration details of her vehicle was being maintained by her since January 2017 and the vehicle was registered only in August.
 
 It is learnt that she said that her vehicle was used in Chennai and Puducherry, and she had come to   only on rare occasions in the said vehicle. But crime branch sources said that they have ample evidence with them to prove that the address was not legitimate as vehicles belonging to other individuals have also been registered in the same address. They said that she could not produce the original deed agreement of the address and sought more time for the same.
 
 Paul's bail application is pending before the high court and it was on the basis of court directive that the actor appeared for interrogation on Monday.
 
 The crime branch will submit a report before the high court, after which the court will resume hearing on her bail application.
 
 Earlier, actor   was arrested by the crime branch and released on bail in a similar case of fraud. He had already taken steps to transfer the registration of his vehicle to Kerala, and had informed the agency that he has remitted the full tax amount in the state. While the maximum tax is only Rs 1 lakh for any vehicle in Puducherry, it is 20% of price for vehicles priced above Rs 20 lakh in Kerala.
 
 
