With several accused, including those key to a 25-year-old   involving Bank of Maharashtra either discharged or dead, a former bank official aged 75 wept before a special CBI court and said he feared that justice would not be done in his lifetime. 

 In a detailed order on Friday, the special CBI court expressed concern over what it dubbed as one of the oldest pending cases before it and pointed out that several papers were torn and available only in the form of photocopies. The court has now directed the CBI to secure the presence of the complainant, re-issue summons to witnesses and told the accused that the trial is expedited.
 
 Observing that the merit of the case is altogether a different aspect and cannot be influenced by submissions of the accused, the court said, “Still, it cannot be ignored that almost 25 valuable years of their life had gone in continuously climbing the steps of the court when even the first witness has not been examined till date.” The court said both the accused were to note that trial in the 25-year-old case cannot be kept idle and hence is expedited. 
 
 While two accused were discharged in the case registered in 1993, two others died during pendency of trial. Only two accused—D V Jagtap (75) and M S Fadnis (71)—are currently on trial. 
 
 Chargesheet in the case was filed on July 31, 1996, and charges against the accused framed eight years later on November 29, 2004. The case was stayed by the Supreme Court for a long time in light of appeals made by the accused.
 
 The CBI had said that Jyantilal Group had various accounts of their group companies in the bank’s Nepean Sea Road branch between 1977 and 1990, and enjoyed credit facilities sanctioned to them from time to time. The CBI had alleged that bank employees and private persons involved with the group hatched a criminal conspiracy to cheat the bank and cause wrongful loss in respect of sanction and disbursement of various credit facilities to the group.
 
 While addressing the court, Jagtap said his family had suffered greatly due to the stigma of this case. He further said his ailing health and age did not allow him to attend every court date and he feared that his trial could not proceed due to pendency of the matter filed by Fadnis before the Bombay high court in 2009. 
 
 Both the accused told the court that since they were named in this case, they had lost everything, had gone thorough extreme suffering and both their families were stigmatized. 
 
 The court, though, pointed out that in Fadnis’ plea, the high court had not stayed the trial in the case and hence it needed to be expedited. 
 
 “The honourable high court is very hard in respect of old pendency of CBI cases. This case has been pending since 1996. Already, 21 years have lapsed and not a single witness has been examined,” the court said. 
 
 
