CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K   on Tuesday sought to put the   in the dock by charging the opposition party with inciting violence during the anti-Sterlite protests in Tuticorin on May 22nd and 23rd, resulting in the death of 13 people in police firing. The DMK was playing a "game of deceit", the CM told the assembly. Several clearances for  's copper smelter unit, including allotment of land for its expansion plans, were granted during DMK regime, Palaniswami said, and alleged that the Congress-led UPA regime, in which the DMK was an alliance partner, gave clearances for Sterlite's expansion plans, not just once, but four times. 

 
 
 Some 200 DMK members, led by former minister   took part in the protest to lay siege to the collectorate, said the CM, avoiding any mention of the police firing in his speech. 
 
 
 
 
 In his reply to a calling attention motion moved by AIADMK MLAs and rebel leader T T V Dhinakaran over the Sterlite protests, Palaniswami explained at length about a series of meetings held by the district administration with the agitating people in the last four months. The administration had taken preventive steps to control the mob that marched towards Tuticorin collectorate. Police resorted to lathi-charge and used tear gas shells to disperse them. “The government will take action based on the outcome of the inquiry commission’s report.” Waving several photographs of the violent protests, the CM wondered how they could be innocent protesters.
 
 “A few other organisations also took part in the protests. With a view to triggering a crisis for the government, they laid siege to the district collectorate and Sterlite (residential quarters), violating Section 144 of CrPC, promulgated in the region,” the CM said. The police, chief minister said, “took action” on the “violent mob” due to unavoidable circumstances, but only after issuing warning. In all, 58 protestors and 72 police personnel got admitted to hospital for injuries, while 196 public and private vehicles were damaged, he said.
 
 Rejecting the opposition claims that the permanent closure order was an eyewash, Palaniswami said the order was issued under Section 18 (1)(b) of the Water Act, 1974, and was legally valid. “The order was issued after consulting legal experts … The state government, respecting the sentiments of the people, have found a solution through permanent closure,” he said, amid thumping of desks by the treasury members. “Normalcy has been restored due to the speedy efforts taken by the government,” he said.
 
 The chief minister accused the DMK of granting several clearances to the unit, including a clean chit through an affidavit in 2010, that all the procedures prescribed by law were duly followed while granting permission to the company. The then DMK government had claimed that periodical checks were conducted to monitor the activities of the company. “The company moved the Supreme Court challenging the order of the Madras high court to shut down. They got a stay in a day. Had they (DMK government) argued properly, the stay would not have been given,” he said. DMK leader M K  , while he was industries minister in 2009, allotted 230.63 acres for the second expansion of the plant, said Palaniswami, seeking to deflect criticism that his government was supportive of the Sterlite management.
 
 DMK working president M K Stalin, who walked out of the House along with his party MLAs, announced that he and his party MLAs would boycott the rest of the session. “Until the cabinet meets and takes a policy decision on the closure of the Sterlite unit, we will not attend the assembly session,” said Stalin, demanding a white paper on the incident.
 
 
