PATNA: The   (ED) on Monday attached assets worth Rs10 crore of   in connection with a money laundering case against him. The Patna office of   also attached properties worth Rs1.67 crore of former chief engineer of state minor irrigation department in Muzaffarpur, Awadhesh Prasad Singh.

 ED sources said provisional orders in both cases were issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) for the attachment of properties of Yadav and Singh.
 
 Sources said Yadav is the mukhiya of a panchayat in Bithan block of Samastipur district. His properties attached included a house in Patna, 25 plots of land and bank balance of about Rs4 lakh. “The total value of the attached properties is about Rs75 lakh, which is the value taken on the date of acquisition. The market value of these properties is over Rs10 crore,” the ED statement said. 
 
 According to ED sources, 26 FIRs have been lodged against Yadav for murder, attempt to murder, attempt to commit culpable homicide, extortion and dealing in illegal arms and explosives.
 
 On the basis of FIRs/chargesheets, ED initiated investigation under the PMLA. It said Yadav used to deposits huge cash in the bank accounts of others and got cheques for the equal amount issued in the name of his family members. “He obtained a gas agency of BPCL in the name of his wife Bibha Devi for which the money was shown from the bank whereas cash deposits were made for the corresponding withdrawals,” the ED statement reads.
 
 It was revealed during probe that Yadav acquired and operated liquor shops in the name of his servant and staff before imposition of liquor prohibition in April 2016.
 
 With regard to Singh, ED sources said he was posted as chief engineer, north (tube well wing) in the minor irrigation department at Muzaffarpur. Singh’s attached properties included a two-storey bungalow and two plots in Patna, two in Bangalore, five plots in Samastipur and cash and jewellery worth Rs52.5 lakh. The ED calculated the value of his attached assets (Rs1.67 crore) on the date of acquisition. 
 
 The ED statement said the first case against Singh was lodged by state vigilance bureau on January 23, 2008. On the basis of chargesheet in the case, ED initiated a suo motu probe under the provisions of PMLA and found that he had amassed properties in his as well as family members’ name while serving in different capacities from 1980 to 2007.
 
 
