GURUGRAM: A 35-year-old woman, a mother of three, was allegedly raped by her neighbour in  , police said. She filed a complaint against Ashok (40), a contractor, at   police station, alleging that the accused had been harassing her for a year, and forcing her to live with him ever since her husband died.

 In her complaint, the woman said her husband was ill since 2016. During this time, the accused used to visit the house of the complainant to inquire about the health of her husband. “He (accused) used to help us with money during my husband’s illness,” she said in her complaint. On February 10, 2017, the accused raped her when she was alone at home.
 
 “The children were in school and my husband had gone to visit a doctor. Finding me alone at home, he raped me,” she said in her complaint, adding the accused threatened to harm her family. Fearing the well-being of her family, she did not report the matter to police.
 
 In April 2017, the woman’s husband died. Taking advantage of the situation, the accused started visiting her house regularly. “Whenever I resisted, he threatened to release a video of mine on social media. The accused claimed to have made a video and used it to   me,” said the woman adding he started to force her to live with him.
 
 On May 23, the accused once again visited the woman’s house and tried to force himself on her. “People living in the neighbourhood rushed to my house when I raised the alarm, and he fled the scene,” she reported. The complainant then consulted her relative and approached a lawyer. “With the help of the lawyer, we filed a complaint requesting police to take action against the accused,” she said. After receiving the complaint, an FIR was registered against Ashok at the Udyog Vihar police station, under section 376 ( ) of IPC. “We recorded the statement of the accused and registered the FIR. We’re investigating the case,” said a police officer from Udyog Vihar police station.
 
 Incidents of rape have been on the rise in and around the city. On May 20, a 47-year-old a deaf and mute woman was raped by an unidentified man when she stepped out of her room in Sikanderpur to go to the loo. She could not even raise an alarm or cry for help, but she narrated the incident to her neighbour in sign language. The neighbour took her to the women’s police station in Sector 51 and filed a complaint. 
 
 In another case, a 21-year-old pregnant woman was allegedly gang-raped by an auto-rickshaw driver and two other men in   last week. They force fed her a pill and when she fell unconscious, the accused took her to an isolated place and raped her. 
 
 
