MUMBAI: The country’s stressed   are the third-highest among major economies in the world after Greece and Italy according to  , vice-chairman and CEO of  . According to Kotak, the stressed loans will peak at Rs 12-14 lakh crore or nearly 20% of loan assets with recognition hastened by RBI’s recent circular on non-performing assets (NPA).

 There is still some unrecognised stress in the loans to small and medium enterprises (SMEs). The stress, which was generated during demonetisation and implementation of   have not been fully recognised, Kotak said.
 
 Commenting on the operational risks faced by banks in the light of the fraud at  , Kotak said that in migrating from manual to technology-led process, the key risk is when manual and technology co-exists and processes have not yet become straight through. “As you transit, a mid-way house is dangerous. The transition from physical to electronic has to be handled with care,” said Kotak. 
 
 Announcing the bank’s digital first strategy, he said that the lender would be driven by ABCD — artificial intelligence, biometric-enabled branches, enhanced customer experience and data-empowered design.
 
 “We started mobile-only accounts (811 accounts) last year and the cost of opening these accounts is 80% lower than regular accounts. This helped us to increase customer base by 50% to 12 million, well on our track to doubling the account base,” said Kotak.
 
 Unlike other accounts, customers have to pay Rs 199 separately for a debit card under the digital-only account. “If the customer wants to be in the digital world, our operating cost is very low. If he wants to be in the physical world, every service we have unbundled and the charges are separate. If the customer comes to a branch for withdrawal of cash, it is free for the first transaction and they get charged for subsequent transactions,” said Kotak. He added that the digital strategy has paid off with the bank seeing only 1.5 transactions per month on its ATMs.
 
 In addition to helping the lender grow savings account at 50%, the digital strategy has also helped the bank to grow loans with a leaner branch network, he said. Digital loans included pre-approved personal loans and instant credit card approvals.
 
 
