PUNE : A 55-year-old man was arrested on Saturday for killing his live-in partner of 17 years following a spat.

 MIDC Bhosari police arrested  , from  , for killing 50-year-old Shardabai   in the early hours of Friday. Patel, a survivor of the Bhopal gas tragedy, had reportedly lost his cool during a spat with Kakade, and in a fit of rage had hit her with an iron spade. He went on to spend the entire day with the body. At night, Patel called up his friend and told him everything.
 
 After his arrest, Patel admitted to the police that he had killed his partner. Senior police inspector Bhimrao   told TOI, “Patel undertakes construction work of small buildings in Moshi and surrounding rural areas. Him and Kakade had been in a live-in relationship for past 17 years.”
 
 “Patel killed Kakade at around 5 am on Friday, and then stayed with the body in the house throughout the day. Late in the night, he called up his friend and told him that he had killed Kakade. Initially, his friend did not take him seriously. However, when Patel called again on Saturday morning, his friend sent his wife to check on Patel,” said Shingade.
 
 When the friend’s wife found out that Kakade was killed, she told her husband. “Patel’s friend then called-up the police control room, which alerted the MIDC Bhosari police,” he said.
 
 “Patel suspected Kakade’s fidelity. The neighbours told us the couple fought every now and then. We suspect the murder was a fallout of infidelity issues,” Shingade said and added that Patel owned the house where the murder took place.
 
 “Kakade had divorced her husband many years ago. She started living with Patel 17-years ago. Patel had never married,” he said.
 
 Shingade told TOI “Patel hails from Bhopal in  . He lost his family members in the Union Carbide gas tragedy in 1984. However, he was rescued. As he did not have anything left in Bhopal, he left the place. After wandering around for some time, he had settled down in Pune. Initially, he was working at a construction site. Later he started taking contracts to build small houses.”
 
 
