PATNA: The state government has directed the Patna district administration to forcefully evict two RJD legislators from their ministerial bungalows which they have not vacated even though they ceased to be ministers after the Grand Alliance government fell in July 2017. 

 “My office has received an order from the building construction department (BCD) for forceful eviction of Shivchandra Ram and Chandrika Rai,” Patna DM Kumar Ravi told TOI on Saturday. He, however, denied reports in a section of the media that he was also in receipt of a similar letter from the BCD for eviction of leader of opposition   Prasad Yadav from 5, Deshratna Marg, which was allotted to him when he was appointed deputy CM in the GA government in 2015.
 
 Parsa MLA Chandrika was the transport minister in the GA government and stays in 5, Circular Road bungalow. Rajapakar MLA Shivchandra was the minister for art, culture and youth affairs and resides in 12, Strand Road bungalow.
 
 The DM said his office would send a last notice to the two ex-ministers, asking them to vacate the bungalows. “We will follow the legal procedure prescribed for such matters,” Ravi said.
 
 Though the DM denied any move to evict Tejashwi, the leader of opposition accused the Nitish Kumar-led   government of harassing him and his family. “They withdrew our security. Now they want to remove me from my bungalow,” he said..
 
 He also accused the government of “constantly insulting” him. “The government does not consider me the leader of opposition. It sends me letter that address me as former minister,” he said.
 
 BCD minister Maheshwar Hazari could not be contacted for comments as he was out of town. Department’s principal secretary Chanchal Kumar too did not respond to the calls made by this reporter. 
 
 The state government issued a notification on August 29 last year, allotting government bungalows to 15 ministers of the newly formed NDA government. As per the notification, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi has been allotted 5, Deshratna Marg bungalow which had earlier been allotted to Tejashwi when he had become deputy CM in 2015. Tejashwi has now been allotted SuMo’s 1, Polo Road bungalow.
 
 BCD sources said former state ministers are allowed one month’s time to vacate the official bungalows. 
 
 Tejashwi has requested the state government to allow him to retain the 5, Deshratna Marg bungalow. His letter in this regard to the BCD minister and the CM secretariat on August 31 last year cited the fact that SuMo was allowed to retain 1, Polo Road bungalow when he had ceased to be the deputy CM in 2013.
 
 BCD minister Hazari has, however, gone on record to say that 5, Deshratna Marg bungalow has since been earmarked as the official residence of the deputy CM and 1, Polo Road bungalow as that of the leader of opposition in legislative assembly.
 
 
