THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In the presence of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, joint venture entities Winterfell Realty Private Limited and   signed lease agreement for 12.12 acres in Technopark for the   project on Wednesday.

 Technopark authorities said that land filling activities will begin soon and the construction will commence as soon as the SEZ co-developer status and single window are approved. Jitu Virwani, chairman and managing director, Embassy Group; Erik  , global president, Taurus Investment Holdings;  , country managing director, Taurus Investment Holdings; M Sivasankar, IT Secretary and Hrishikesh Nair, CEO Technopark attended the function at the chief minister’s chamber in legislative assembly complex.
 
 Ajay Prasad and Hrishikesh Nair also signed the lease agreement for Dragonstone Realty Private Limited which will be constructing retail and entertainment space and a 175-key business hotel in another 7.64 acres of non-SEZ land.
 
 The land has been leased from Technopark for a period of 90 years. Out of the 12.12 acres earmarked for office space, 10 acres is under the special economic zone (SEZ) and 2.12 acres is non-SEZ. Embassy Taurus World Technology Centre will build 2.8 million square feet of premium Grade A office space and 500000 square feet of Grade A office space in the non-SEZ land parcel. Embassy, leading commercial office space provider, will bring in its proven expertise of project development, leasing and property management while Bangalore-based international construction management firm,   will manage the development of the project.
 
 “The project will facilitate creation of 35,000 direct jobs ,” said chief minister at the function.
 
 Rijnbout said that one of the main reasons to choose Thiruvananthapuram was the partnership they were able to reach with government and Technopark. “Thiruvananthapuram has a great social infrastructure which includes an outstanding university, great hospital system, an international airport, a very well-educated population and as a bonus it has beautiful beaches.”
 
 “Taurus Downtown will give a prestigious facelift to Technopark and Thiruvananthapuram as a whole," said IT secretary M Sivasankar.
 
 
