RANCHI: A high-powered committee appointed by the state government to review its   policy on Saturday decided to recommend reserving all grade III and grade IV jobs — even in the 11 districts of the state that are not under scheduled area — for local candidates for 10 years. The panel has also decided to recommend relaxation in age limit for locals with special privilege to women candidates on lines adopted by other states.

 The decision is likely to be welcomed by tribal MLAs but create resentment among the non-tribal and new settlers as their chances of getting government jobs would dwindle.
 
 The committee headed by minister for art, culture, sports and youth affairs Amar Kumar Bauri met at   on Saturday and discussed its findings. Talking to TOI, Bauri said that after touring two states they reached a conclusion about giving benefits to the local candidates even in non-schedule districts. “We studied the models adopted in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh that are dominated by tribal population and like   came into origin after division of the bigger Madhya Pradesh,” he said.
 
 The meeting was also attended by members of the committee,   MLAs Radha Krishna Kishore, SN Tiwari, Raj Sinha, Amit Mandal and   along with additional chief secretary home cum personnel and administrative reforms SKG Rahate.
 
 The committee was formed by the government after strong protest by opposition and members of the ruling alliance as well. As many as 24 BJP MLAs had written a letter to the CM expressing their anger against the idea of reserving grade III and IV jobs only in the 13 districts which are in the fifth schedule of the constitution. 
 
 The committee has decided to fine tune the recommendations and submit it to the chief minister on April 17 following which an official decision would be taken by the department of personnel and administrative reforms. At present the provision of freezing jobs for locals is restricted to candidates in the 13 scheduled area districts.
 
 
