MUMBAI: With the battle for the Palghar Lok Sabha constituency bypoll entering a crucial phase, Shiv   president Uddhav Thackeray and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath addressed rallies in Vasai and Virar on Wednesday evening.

 For the first time, Uddhav supported the idea of a common front against the BJP. Adityanath said that the Palghar by-election would set the mood for the 2019 general election.
 
 “All shades of political opinion, including the   and the Communists too, should come together to fight the crisis which the country faces. If we don’t act in time, grave damage will be done to the country,” Uddhav said. The Shiv Sena chief was addressing a meeting in Vasai to canvass support for Shriniwas Wanga, the Sena candidate for the Palghar Lok Sabha by-election, which is scheduled for May 28. 
 
 The Sena has earned the saffron party’s ire by fielding its candidate in Palghar, which is a BJP constituency. Chintaman Wanga, the BJP MP from Palghar, died in January this year necessitating a by-poll in the tribal-dominated constituency. The Sena has fielded the late BJP MP’s son for the crucial by-election.
 
 Around 10 km away in Virar, Adityanath lambasted the Sena for snatching away their candidate. Opening his speech in Marathi, he said that even Sena supremo Bal Thackeray would have been saddened by the developments. “Bal Thackeray would never have backstabbed us,” said the UP CM. Giving a ticket to Wanga’s kin was an internal matter of the BJP. With Shriniwas contesting on a Sena ticket, BJP fielded former   Rajendra Gavit.
 
 Uddhav alleged that the BJP had made up its mind not to offer party nomination to Shriniwas as the late MP was stridently opposed to the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train and the Mumbai-Nashik expressway. “The BJP didn’t want any opposition to these projects,” Uddhav said. “The Sena will use its ‘danda’ (muscle power) if the BJP regime orders a crackdown on those who oppose the two projects,” he warned. “Instead of starting costly projects, the government should spend to improve the suburban railway network,” he said. Uddhav dared chief minister Devendra Fadnavis to an open debate on crucial issues facing the  .
 
 Launching a blistering attack on Narendra Modi, Thackeray said the PM spends more time abroad than in India. “Modi says ‘Desh badal raha hai’. Well, he hops from one country to another every second week. It’s US in the morning and France in the evening. ‘Desh badal raha hai’, but only for the PM,” he said. 
 
 Back in Virar, the UP chief minister did not miss an opportunity to sing the ‘Modi Sarkar’ tune. Listing out developmental projects and schemes rolled out by the Modi government, Adityanath said that the country can develop only under Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Playing the north Indian and Maharashtrian cards, Adityanath praised UP governor Ram Naik, who represented the Mumbai North constituency, then comprising Vasai-Virar. 
 
 Uddhav accused Adityanath of garlanding Shivaji’s bust at the rally venue with his sandals on, thus showing disrespect. 
 
 Attempts to contact BJP functionaries to verify the charge proved fruitless. 
 
 
