INDORE: The high court on Tuesday imposed a cost of Rs 50,000 on a petitioner, who had filed over 20 petitions challenging appointment of a member of   (NCA). The petitioner, Pawan Kumar, had alleged that appointment of Dr   as the member (Environment and Rehabilitation) at Narmada Control Authority was illegal since Ahmed did not have a doctorate in environmental studies and that he had produced fake document before NCA for his appointment. 

 Kumar and Afroz had both applied for the post in 2010 and were selected. However, since the appointment rules had to be changed, appointment for the post was put on hold. Fresh applications were invited in 2014, when again both of them moved their applications for the post and Afroz was appointed as the member of NCA. 
 
 Pawan Kumar then moved to different forums, where he filed multiple litigations one after the other challenging Afroz's appointment, accusing him of fraud and pressing civil charges against him. Kumar approached   (CAT), district court, lower court,   high court's principal bench as well as bench at  . "His last original application filed before CAT was dismissed recently wherein the tribunal observed that Kumar had filed 10 petitions and appeals before CAT regarding the same issue, which had already been decided by them and disposed the original application (OA) with a cost of Rs 10,000," advocate HY Mehta, Ahmed's counsel said.
 
 During the hearing, the court reprimanded the petitioners for such repetitive litigation and imposed a cost of Rs 50,000 on the petitioner. 
 
 At the high court, two litigations regarding the same issue are pending before the court. In one, the process of appointment of members of NCA has been challenged whereas the other petition challenges Ahmed's appointment. 
 
 Another criminal revision case under Section 482 has also been moved by Pawan Kumar challenging a lower court's order for requirement of prosecution sanction to start trial against Afroz Ahmed for forgery of documents and cheating based on a private complaint. 
 
 
 
