Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to revive an almost eight-decade-old barrage constructed in 1936 on Kanhan river near Juni Kamptee for supplying water to Kamptee and Kanhan towns. The civic body used to draw 60mld water every day from the barrage, which has been lying unused for the last several years. The decision to this effect was taken after TOI brought to the NMC notice about the condition of the dam after the visit to the place along with Congress Manoj Sangole recently. TOI during the visit found the barrage in good condition but the reservoir was not able to hold water because the gates were not in place properly.  Civic body commissioner Ashwin Mudgal, taking cognisance of the visit, announced the revival the dam, designed by the late Dr M Visvesvaraya, by constructing four cofferdams over the confluence of the river. “The cofferdams will be constructed a distance of 15m so that water can be stored in the dam. A provision of Rs4 to Rs5 crore will be made for the purpose and orders will also be issued to the water works department to repair the gates. Strange though it may sound, it is a fact that Nagpur, which has been reeling under severe water crisis, used to draw 60mld water every day from the dam but after the flash floods in 1980, the NMC did not make any effort to revive it. “The flash floods led to a breach in a small confluence point just ahead of the barrage and formed its own huge curvature to join the Kolar river. It also shifted the confluence point of the Kolar river,” an NMC official said.  This failed the purpose of the barrage construction as water started flowing from the huge curvature formed just a few hundred meters away from the barrage on Kanhan river. Praful Kawde, a Juni Kamptee village resident, said, “The civic body did not make any attempt to block the spill way. Had the NMC made any effort, the civic body would have been pumping more water than what it draws today from Kanhan river.”  After the barrage’s construction, the NMC drew 60mld water every day and supply to almost entire city from Juni Kamptee pumping station, the officer said.  According to Juni Kamptee village sarpanch Mohan Khandate, water was being supplied to both Kamptee and Kanhan town. The NMC’s water works department used to operate the dam’s gate through a diesel engine.  Kalabai Satpute, 72, a resident of Dorli village near the barrage, said she had worked at the pumping station. “The storage of water through barrage had actually helped farmers also for irrigation purposes,” she said. 