NAGPUR: The staff crunch at   ( ) will continue to hamper work for the foreseeable future, as the state government is likely to approve recruitment of only 201 staffers as against requirement of 9,053.

 The state’s urban development department (UDD) on Saturday held a meeting on NMC’s proposal seeking approval to new Establishment Schedule, also called as Staffing Pattern. Principal secretary  , municipal commissioner Ashwin   and other officials from UDD and NMC were present.
 
 Mudgal told TOI NMC is hopeful of getting approval for 201 new posts soon. “NMC’s establishment cost should be below 35% for recruitment of new staff. But NMC’s establishment cost is around 50%. Therefore, the government has asked NMC to increase staff in a phased manner. The proposal seeking 201 staff in phase-I was submitted and is likely to get the nod,” he said.
 
 Mudgal added NMC’s salary expense will increase by Rs53 crore per annum (Rs4.41 crore per month) if the new establishment schedule is approved as it is. “Additional financial cost will be only Rs7 crore per annum (Rs58 lakh per month) if 201 staffer are added. This expense is easily manageable with increase in revenue from couple of sources in the past,” he said.
 
 NMC’s last establishment schedule was prepared in 1976. As per the establishment schedule, total posts at NMC were 12,625. NMC is witnessing retirement of employees on regular basis for last 10 years. But the replacement of retired staff has not been done due to high establishment schedule. Thus, 8,282 posts are filled and 4,344 are vacant as of today.
 
 After a detailed study, NMC has calculated its current requirement to be 17,334 staffers. Thus, NMC currently needs to recruit 9,053 staffers. Accordingly, NMC had sought approval in new establishment schedule. This has been pending for over one year with the UDD due to NMC’s high establishment cost.
 
 Many of the officials have two or more charges, that too of departments different from their recruitment. Some officials are even holding charge of posts that are two or more steps superior than their existing post and qualification.
 
 Thus, citizens and corporators always get the common excuse from NMC for delays in work: staff crunch. Works in almost all departments have been hampered due to the short hands.
 
 Mudgal said the plan is to recruit critical manpower, that can implement and monitor works. “We proposed approval for posts of deputy municipal commissioners, assistant municipal commissioners, deputy engineers, junior engineers, sanitary inspectors etc. Work can continue if someone is there to get it done and monitor it,” he said.
 
 NMC had planned some new posts as per change in technology and working style. NMC had also sought 82 police personnel in new establishment schedule. Unfortunately, the new recruitments will not include these new posts or police personnel.
 
 
