CHENNAI: Slamming Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC) for "negligence, dereliction of duty and lapses", the Madras high court has directed   managing director to take disciplinary action against officials who flouted judicial orders. The court has given him two weeks to spell out the details of action taken against the erring officials. 

 Justice S M  , irked by the fact that officials had come back to the court after 10 months, that too seeking extension of time to comply with the court order, said: "The writ petition was preferred long after the automatic cancellation of the interim order. No such petition can be entertained, as it was filed in a casual manner by the officers of TNCSC. If at all there were any administrative difficulties, the authorities ought to have approached the court soon after the expiry of the time limit of four weeks granted by this court."
 
 The matter relates to an order passed by   in Coimbatore in November 2012, directing TNCSC to pay Rs 19,300 to R Thangavelu, who had worked as foreman and retired in February 2003. Challenging the order, TNCSC filed the present writ petition in 2017. The court granted interim stay of the labour court order, with a condition that the award amount should be deposited within four weeks, failing which the stay order granted by the high court would be deemed to be automatically cancelled.
 
 But, without complying with the order, the TNCSC returned to court in January 2018 seeking extension of time.
 
 When the case came up for hearing on Tuesday, Justice Subramanian said: "The writ petitioner had not complied with the order without any valid reason. The writ petitioner is civil supplies corporation, wholly owned by  . If such organisations are not taking any steps for complying with orders, the court has to draw a factual inference that the officials working in the  . Now, after a lapse of about 10 months, the present miscellaneous has been preferred. The managing director of TNCSC is directed to initiate appropriate disciplinary action against all officials responsible for such lapses, dereliction of duty and negligence in dealing with the court matters and report before this court within a period of two weeks."
 
