RANCHI: CBI witnesses from   scheduled to appear at the   to depose in a   related to fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 139 core from the   failed to appear on Tuesday due to the coming elections in the northeastern state. 

 RJD president Lalu Prasad is among the several politicians and top bureaucrats accused in the case. He was produced in the court on Tuesday in the fodder scam cases related to fraudulent withdrawals from Dumka and the Doranda treasuries.
 
 The court had summoned two prosecution witnesses - the regional transport officer of Kohima and district transport officer of Zunheboto - to depose in connection with the vehicles used in the fodder scam. The officials, however, informed the CBI that they were caught up in election duty and would be available after the polling process is over.
 
 Sources said that the two witnesses due to appear for the prosecution in the case on Wednesday are also from Nagaland, which goes to the polls on February 27. 
 
 The fodder scam case related to Doranda treasury has a total of 799 witnesses. CBI had earlier told the court that it was finding it difficult to produce the witnesses due to various reasons, including change of address and ailments of the witnesses. After the court's directive to speed up the deposition of witnesses, the production of prosecution witnesses picked up pace in the recent past. Witnesses were called by flights from various parts of the Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.
 
 On Tuesday, Lalu and other accused persons appeared in the fodder scam case related to Dumka treasury in which the defence lawyers completed argument for their clients on Tuesday. The CBI will give reply to the points raised by the defence from Wednesday.
 
 Earlier in the day, no one could visit Lalu in the Birsa Munda Central jail even though three visitors are allowed to meet the RJD leader in jail every Tuesday. There were speculations that leader of opposition Hemant Soren could visit the RJD leader. A host of RJD leaders, however, were in the court to catch a glimpse of their leader. 
 
 
