JAIPUR: Sitting Rajya Sabha MP  , BJP leader   and MLA  , who rejoined BJP after 10 years on Sunday, filed nominations for election to the Upper House on Monday.

 Since Monday was the last day for filing nominations and only three persons filed their papers against the three vacancies in the state, all three are set to be declared elected unopposed on March 15, which is the last day for withdrawing nominations. The election commission will scrutinise the nominations on Tuesday.
 
 As BJP now has 162 out of 199 MLAs in the state assembly, the Congress was in no position to field its candidate or support an Independent candidate for the election. All 10 Rajya Sabha seats in Rajasthan will now have BJP MPs. Of the 25 Lok Sabha seats, the ruling party has 23 seats in its fold, while the Congress has two, which it won in the recent bypolls.
 
 The Rajya Sabha nominations were filed in the presence of chief minister  , cabinet ministers and around 30-40 BJP MLAs. Raje ensured that every candidate filed three nomination papers. She stayed till the papers were submitted before the chief electoral officer at the state assembly.
 
 Meena reached the assembly with his 500 supporters, who raised slogans for their leader till he came out after filing the nomination papers. While the other two candidates—Yadav and Saini—chose to come with few accomplices.
 
 On being asked if his influence in the state would decline once he moved to RS, Meena replied, “I will continue to work for development of common man irrespective of whether I stay in the state or in Delhi (RS). My priorities in RS are to raise issues related to Rajasthan and to tirelessly work for BJP’s agenda.”
 
 Meena offered to convince independent MLA Hanuman Beniwal to rejoin BJP and pacify senior BJP MLA Ganshayan Tiwari—a strong critic of Raje—if the party high command allowed him. “My job is to bring together those leaders and party workers who are miffed or angry due to any reason. I will move from one village to another to bring our ‘karyakartas’ into active mode to achieve the larger mission of winning 180 seats in the upcoming assembly elections,” said Meena.
 
 Saini appeared still in disbelief of BJP nominating him for the RS seat. He repeatedly told media persons that he was unaware of his nomination till he received a phone call in the midst of a program in Sikar on Sunday. “I was told to report to party office in Jaipur immediately. On the way I learnt that the party has chosen me for RS nomination. I still cannot believe that a grassroots worker like me has been chosen for the coveted post. My RS sojourn will be dedicated to the party and I will work as a party ‘karyakarta’ in RS,” said Saini.
 
 Replying to a question if victory on the three RS seats would be able to counter BJP’s humiliating defeat in recent by-polls, Yadav replied, “BJP is a big party. It is going strong in all directions.” On his role as a strategist in the upcoming assembly polls, Yadav said, “I will discharge any task assigned to me by the party. In Rajasthan, I am ready for any role.”
 
