MOHALI:   administration has been making ardent efforts to curb the illegal mining activities in and around in the district but till date the administration has failed to curb the menace. Now, administration has decided to put up special checkposts to monitor the movement of the illegal miners in the areas from where illegal minings are mostly reported.

 Deputy commissioner Gurpreet Kaur Sapra said the mining department is all set to put up the special checkposts which are being handled by director mining department Punjab Amit Dhaka. She said, “We have been from time to time using the administrative machinery to check the illegal mining activity in the district. The instructions from the CM’s office are very clear to curb the illegal mining in the respective districts. We have also deployed special officers to check the mining activities and submit weekly report from their respective areas.”
 
 She said she had also issued orders to take stern action against officials failing to send surprise checking report on illegal mining twice a week. Sapra has constituted a team of block level officers to conduct the surprise checkings.
 
 She said various complaints are received in the department time to time regarding illegal mining in village’s panchayat lands. In this regard, a DO letter from the director of mining, department of industry and commerce, Punjab has also been received. As such, directions to identify the mining in panchayati lands in each village have been issued.
 
 Sapra also directed the concerned district and block development and panchayat officers, those from public health, water supply, sanitation and mining department to include the locations of panchayati lands, observing illegal mining in their respective areas.
 
 Efforts are being made to curb illegal mining in the Majri,   areas in Kharar and also in   and Derabassi.
 
 However, there has been no respite from illegal mining which goes unabated in Khizrabad area of Mohali, despite the fact that in July this year, deputy commissioner raided the area and found 40 illegal crushers operating from the site.
 
 The former sarpanch of Khizrabad area Sher Mohammad said he has been continuously raising the illegal mining issue fearlessly even after being threatened repeatedly. Mohammad said, “Illegal mining is ruining the forest cover and the land of our village. Deforestation is alarming and we have been raising the issue with administration but till date no action has been taken. Over 30 to 40 tipper trucks operate every night from Khizrabad area and there is no one to check the operations.”
 
 
