LUCKNOW: Drawing a parallel with Hanuman while declaring a  , UP chief minister   on Monday said that he would too burn down the ‘Lanka’ of corruption in the state.

 “Kuch logon ko bandaron se bahut darr lagta hai... main batana chahta hoon ki yahan bhi ek bandar hai jo bhrasht tantra ko jala kar nasht kar dega (Some people are very afraid of monkeys. I want to tell them that there is a monkey here who will burn down the entire corrupt system),” Yogi said.
 
  
 He was addressing a function organised at the   here to mark the completion of the  s one year in office. He was hitting back at the SP MLC who had posted a satirical comment around a joke on a monkey on social media to take a jibe at the BJP government.
 
 On the occasion, Yogi also launched an anti-corruption portal where people can post pictures and videos as proof of corruption.
 ‘Drive against corrupt officers will continue’
 
 Yogi said that his government had identified more than 400 corrupt officials and many of them were given compulsory retirement in the past one year. “Ye abhiyan abhi jaari rahega (This drive will continue),” he said.
 
 Maintaining that one year was not enough to assess his government’s performance, Yogi slammed previous SP and BSP governments for devising policies which promoted corruption and nepotism and were largely driven by caste and communal agenda.
 
 “We inherited a complex state like UP which was infested with ‘Goonda raj’, ‘bhrashtachar’ (corruption) and ‘parivarvaad’ (dynasty politics). Yet we improved the situation with whatever little resources that were left,” said Yogi, as he recounted a series of projects undertaken by his government in the last one year.
 
 “Be it building of over one lakh kilometre of roads free of potholes or supplying power equally to all areas in the state, our government set priorities and executed them justifiably,” the CM said as Governor Ram Naik, deputy CMs, ministers, BJP MLAs, MPs and party functionaries listened in rapt attention. Yogi said the state’s education sector was in the grip of mafia.
 
 He claimed that 75% of nearly 12 lakh students who dropped out of UP Secondary Board examinations, were not from the state. “There were all ‘Munnabhais’ from other states,” he said.
 
 The chief minister made a series of announcements, including his plans to recruit nearly 4 lakh government employees. Reiterating his commitment to promote religious and  , Yogi announced construction of a Kumbh museum in Allahabad and a Ram Katha museum in Ayodhya.
 
