GURUGRAM: The Haryana department of archaeology has sent a technical archaeologist from its excavation site in Kunal, Fathebad, to inspect the site of a 700-year-old   in   near Bhondsi as questions are being raised how a religious institution got permission to fill up the baoli in its compound. 

 The management of Believers Church of India, who also run a school in the compund, claimed that it had taken permission to fill up the baoli from divisional commissioner D Suresh. The zila parishad had leased the land to the church in March 2016, but without permission to destroy the stepwell. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Suresh said that the religious body had approached him to exchange the piece of land for another adjacent plot. “They had come with an application to set up a dispensary on the plot, which would serve the poor and needy and filed a request of exchange. I gave them permission under Section 32 of the Consolidation Act on humanitarian grounds,” he said.
 
 He added that the permission was later revoked when the zila parishad raised an objection, saying that the land was a historical site with a baoli. Suresh said that the revenue records, however, did not show the land as a historical area. 
 
 The action was challenged in the Punjab and Haryana high court and came back to the divisional commissioner in 2017. He called both the parties and revoked the permission to use the land. According to the Church management, it has again taken up the matter in court and the next hearing is scheduled for February 16.
 
 On  , officials from the archaeology department took possession of the land and uprooted trees to unearth the ancient three-storey baoli. Benani Bhattacharya, deputy director of Haryana archaeology department, told TOI that the department sent one of their archaeologists to Gurgaon on Friday and a preliminary survey was carried out. “There is a lot of ‘malwa’ on top of the baoli. We will have to clean that carefully and measure the brick size,” she said. Dr Praveen Kumar, director general of the archaeology department who is supervising the work, said that the first day was about taking possession of the land and the work would now be more technical in nature.
 
 
