HYDERABAD: The Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics (CDFD) will move into a spacious and permanent campus near   station soon. The   is an autonomous organisation under the department of biotechnology (DBT), ministry of science and technology. 

 Investigation agencies from across the country make use of the services of CDFD in cases. With the new premises built on 16 acres, there is more built-up space that will be available for different laboratories in CDFD. On another four acres, residential quarters have come up. The new premises consists of a main building and additional buildings. 
 
 Currently, CDFD is functioning from two places. While the administrative office is at  , lab is at Nampally. The laboratories of the CDFD will start shifting into the new premises at  , near the Nagole Metro station, in a month after which a formal inauguration is expected to take place.
 
 Most recently the CDFD has been in the news for providing its services to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), for DNA testing conducted in the investigation into the   attack. Other cases include investigations into the Uri attack and terror attack cases in Jammu and Kashmir.
 
 Functioning as a small separate unit that was set up at the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) at   by Lalji Singh, CDFD moved into a separate premises at Nacharam. Subsequently, it moved to MJ Market and Nampally. Though it was provided land at Gandipet, and a building was also constructed, it could not be moved into it as it came under 10km range of the water body and rules do not permit activity that may cause pollution. DNA fingerprinting services are provided in cases referred to it by the law-enforcing agencies like the judiciary relating to murder, sexual assault, paternity, maternity, child swapping, deceased identification and organ transplantation.
 
 Between April 1, 2016 and March 31, 2017, 143 cases referred to it, of which 21 pertained to biological relationship, 38 about identity of the deceased, two murders, 70 paternity/maternity cases, 12 sexual assault/rape cases, and 397 cases for fingerprint examination.
 
 
