TIRUPUR: A month after the death of Tirupur-based postgraduate medical student S   Prabhu in New Delhi, his family blamed the Delhi police for not registering a first information report (FIR). Expressing dissatisfaction over the police investigation, the relatives told TOI that they will move court demanding a   probe into the death.

 They noticed many similarities in the death of Sharath and that of  , another medico from the dollar city, who was studying general medicine in the  , the relatives said.   was found dead in his apartment in New Delhi in July 2016. “According to the police and his roommates, many vials of potassium chloride were found in the apartment. While a cannula administering potassium chloride was found inserted in Saravanan’s right hand, one cannula was found with Sharath. Several doctors told us that one cannot insert a cannula into his own vein,” Sharath’s father P Selvamani said.
 
 “Some of his seniors and batchmates in the University College of Medical Sciences (UCMS) claimed that Sharath was depressed and might have committed suicide. But, he never showed any such symptoms,” the father added.
 
 Even before Sharath choose UCMS, the family members, who knew about Saravanan’s case, feared for his safety, his mother S Kanammal said. “I had told him to choose the   over UCMS during the medical counselling process. But, he wanted to have the Delhi experience as six of his batchmates from the Coimbatore Medical College chose PG courses in the national capital,” she said.
 
 The family’s lawyer KKS Krishnaraj said that though the preliminary postmortem report has been released, the forensic team has not revealed the cause of the death. “The GTB Enclave police are yet to register an FIR. It took three-and-a-half-month to register an FIR in Saravanan’ case, that too only after the intervention of the Delhi high court. So, it seems that in Sharath’s case also, the HC’s intervention may be needed. We have decided to pray the court to order a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into the case,” the advocate added.
 
 
