LUDHIANA: It is unheard of that voters in any area outnumber total population of the particular place, but Ludhiana will probable create history in these MC elections when voters will have to vote for the development of other wards.

 In a major surprise, population data of all 95 wards, made public by the Ludhiana municipal corporation, has revealed how voters have outnumbered total population of those particular wards.
 
 The MC uploaded population details of all the wards on its website, following the directions from Punjab and   high court. The orders had come in the ongoing writ petition filed by   (LIP) MLA Simarjit Bains against the state government for irregularities in ward delimitation.
 
 Though the data shows a uniform pattern of distributing equal population in wards (between 16,000 and 22,000), the voter list says a different story.
 
 As per the voter list, the maximum voters are in Ward 31 which falls in Ludhiana South constituency. Where total voters in Ward 31 are 28,172, total population in this ward is merely 20,887.
 
 As per norms, the number of voters should be lesser than total population of the ward.
 
 Similarly, Ward 53 in Ludhiana Central constituency has 19,396 voters, but ward’s population is just 17,003. Ward 29 in Ludhiana South constituency has 22,663 voters whereas its population is 20,465.
 
 The smallest ward as per voters list is Ward 28 in Sahnewal constituency which has got 3,570 voters against the total population of 20,045.
 
 The irregularities in population and voters list have invited criticism from opposition parties. The leaders claimed that   has ignored all the norms for their selfish means.
 
  district president Ravinder Arora said earlier, the irregularities were highlighted in the ward delimitation draft and the map. Now in the voters list, there are lots of issues. He said Congress has brutally murdered democracy.
 
 SAD district president   said they have also submitted their objections with district administration against the voters list because the polling booths have been shifted unnecessarily from one ward to another. He said they will also submit their objections with the state election commission with copy to Election Commission of India against this injustice.
 
 MLA from Ludhiana East Sanjeev Talwar rejected any foul play in the formation of voters list and said that they have followed all norms during delimitation of wards. In case there is any mistake in voters number, then people have the option to raise objection against the same.
 
 MC commissioner   said he won’t be able to comment on the matter. He said they had conducted the survey for 75 wards, but the city was divided in to 95 wards and everything was done by the ward delimitation committee headed by the local bodies director. He said that they do not have any idea about the voters list. 
 
 Deputy commissioner   said that they are not aware of the population because they were given the notification of ward delimitation on the basis of which they divided voters of assembly in wards. He said that if voters submit their objections, the issue will be redressed accordingly. 
 
 
 
