

 If you tune into the radio during your daily commute, chances are you’ve heard   in his new avatar as dating guru. Swapping the TV couch for the mike, the Bollywood director has positioned himself as everyone’s ‘new BFF’, ready to help youngsters negotiate the minefield that is contemporary courtship in his chatty style.
 
 The month-old show has already made headlines for Johar’s confession that he asked Alia Bhatt to lose weight for his film during a conversation on body shaming. Johar has an interesting range of callers who ask about workplace dating, open relationships and being gay but stuck in a marriage. 
 
 
  
 
 K-Jo isn’t the only relationship guru lending an ear to millennials who prefer confiding to a sympathetic stranger on the radio rather than their prying and judgemental families. “I think people are just looking for someone they can talk to without getting judged,” says  , host of the nightly show Mirchi Insta Pyaar on Radio Mirchi.
 
 But Rochie is careful that she doesn’t come across as an “expert”. “I am not a doctor or counselor, and I don’t want to be on a pedestal,” says Rochie. “Sometimes, even callers give me advice. I mentioned my breakup in 2016 on air and I had a caller who said he broke up at the same time and both of us swapped stories. I ended up crying too.”
 
 Despite the occasional show of emotions, Rochie goes largely for a light-hearted and sassy tone. Radio City’s long-running 15-year-old show  , which has an anonymous RJ and a lot of regional versions, keeps it serious. Radio Ishq’s Heart to Heart with Ishq Meera even has a clinical psychologist, and occasionally a sociologist, on board to do the counselling with the RJ acting as the moderator. “Love and relationships are also about mental wellbeing,” says the RJ, who has done episodes on body-shaming and #MeToo.
 
 Irrespective of the tone of the show, offering advice on air comes with a fair share of responsibility. “In the first month, a 14-year-old boy from Ranchi told me he was attracted to boys and didn’t know how to deal with it,” Rochie recalls. “A couple of months later, a girl called and said she was being sexually abused in a relationship and didn’t want to tell her parents. We sought help from a women’s organisation and she finally mustered up courage to file an FIR.”
 
 More often than not, callers and listeners are school and college students or young working professionals still finding their way in life.  , whose listeners range from 16 to 28 years, says many call to discuss rejections on Tinder and on matrimonial websites. Then there are students anxious about exams and recent grads talking about their struggles to find a job.
 
 The anonymous RJ behind Love Guru says he deals with many calls about violence in relationships, inter-caste and inter-religious marriages, adultery, having a physical relationship with a minor, women not being allowed to work by their families or people coming to terms with their homosexuality. He’s also seen callers getting younger, with numerous teenagers who are being blackmailed or threatened by an ex after a breakup.
 Together, the callers offer a map of love across different parts of the country. Rochie notices a lot of calls from men in Punjab who think stalking is an expression of love. “From Patna, there are calls from men who say ‘she’s blocked me, she doesn’t get how much I love her’.” On the other hand, callers from Kolkata, Mangalore and Pune present a different set of issues. “I get couples complaining that they don’t have the same taste in cinema or books, or youngsters saying they’re not getting along with their parents.” Pune, with its large student population, often has questions about living-in. “In the north-east, there are timid men who are nervous to ask women out, and in contrast, confident women who sing songs for their men,” Rochie adds.
 
 “In the metros, we get calls about couples not being able to meet often because of long distances or lack of time,” says RJ Love Guru. “While in smaller towns, there is a lot of chhup chuup ke milna.”
 
 Sometimes, the RJ can even play matchmaker. In 2015, RJ Love Guru received a frantic call from a man in Delhi who said he was in love with a girl from a different religion. When she told her parents about them, they forbade her to meet him and locked her up in a room. “He said he would commit suicide,” recalls the RJ, who then spoke to the girl and counselled her parents on air. The radio station consulted lawyers, and even dealt with religious groups. A few months later, the couple got married, and returned to the radio to share their news. “Their love story became the radio’s story,” says the RJ.
 
