MANGALURU: When   in Mangaluru district prison came to know that one of their   was a   who had allegedly diverted Rs 55 crore, they decided they were entitled to a share. The   and forced his parents to pay Rs 15 lakh as “protection money”. 

 The “protectee” was identified as Sirin Madhusudan, bank manager of the Kulai Branch of Indian Overseas Bank. He is in jail for allegedly diverting Rs 55 crore belonging to   (KRIDL). Police said Madhusudhan and the accused – a gang including Mithun, Shivu, Nikhil, Shivu and Charan – were lodged in the same cell and when they came to know of his background, demanded money from him. Madhusudhan refused many times and the gang members began beating him up. As the attacks became more frequent and more vicious, Madhusudhan called his parents, who live in Kerala, and asked them to pay off his cellmates. Madhusudhan called up his parents using a mobile phone in jail. Anxious about their son’s safety, Madhusudhan’s parents paid the money to the gangsters’ accounts in three instalments, sources said.
 
 Later, they approached police and filed a complaint.
 
 The gang members are in jail in cases of murder and attempt to murder. They were also part of a recent fight inside the jail. Sources said that such inmates, while remaining in jail, are in touch with their accomplices outside who help them run their operations. When the former demand hafta from those in jail, their aides outside harass the victims’ kin and collect the money. Many inmates have cellphones and keep in touch with their aides constantly, sources sid.
 
 Extortion not new
 
 The bank manager’s case is not an isolated one. Four months ago, TOI had reported that inmates who have clout demand hafta from others, ranging from Rs 10,000 to several lakhs, according to the profile of inmates.
 
 The accused in the murder of NRI businessman Bhaskar Shetty – Niranjan Bhat and Navaneeth – were told to pay Rs 5 lakh. When they refused, the duo was attacked with steel drums and rods inside the jail. Following the beatings, the victims were shifted to Shivamogga jail.
 
 
  
 
 A sub-agent arrested in the Jacintha Mendonca human trafficking case was asked to pay Rs 10,000. He was assaulted when he did not meet their demand, sources said. Another undertrial hailing from Bantwal was beaten up severely after he refused to pay Rs 50,000.
 
 
