KOLKATA: The high court order came as a shot in the arm for the opposition that has been crying foul over the State Election Commission’s withdrawing the notification on April 9 giving a window to candidates unable to file their nominations due to continued violence and obstructions from the ruling Trinamool Congress.

 
 They welcomed the court order as a vindication of their allegation, but kept their fingers crossed over how things will play out at the grassroots on the nomination day. Both Congress and CPM are keeping options open for moving the court if the commission fails to ensure a free and fair election process.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Senior lawyer and Trinamool MP Kalyan Banerjee, however, wouldn’t miss the opportunity of being on the winners’ side even after the court scrapped the SEC’s recall notification on April 10. “The high court has rejected the   plea to stall the election. The court didn’t say that the election process will have to be start afresh. It didn’t entertain the CPM plea of sending nominations online. The court also didn’t say anything on the deployment of paramilitary force. It’s a victory for us,”   said, even as Trinamool leaders couldn’t take the argument in the right spirit.
 
 For BJP petitioner Pratap Banerjee, the high court order was a victory for those who want to see democracy restored in Bengal. “This is a historic judgment. It is a not a win for Bharatiya Janata Party but it is a win for all the people of West Bengal who want election and democratic rights of the people to be established. The judgment is an acknowledgement of the hooliganism by the Trinamool,” Banerjee said.
 
  president Adhir   pointed out that his public interest litigation petition praying for paramilitary forces is pending before the high court. “The court order is a moral defeat for Trinamool and the State Election Commission. But this is what people want. We will keep a watch on the ground situation in the days to come. The high court will take up my PIL after two weeks,” Chowdhury said.
 
 CPM leader and lawyer   is happy with the court order. But he isn’t giving up his fears over the ways of the Trinamool. “The single bench of the Calcutta High Court by scrapping the State Election Commission’s April 10 notification has made it clear that the commission has become a puppet in the hands of Trinamool. Now the commission has no other alternative but to give another day for filing nomination and declare fresh dates. Let us see how things unfold in the days to come. We are keeping the options of moving the court again if there is an effort to gag democracy.” Bhattacharya said.
 
