NAGPUR: Four years ago, life was getting difficult and future was looking bleak for   from   tehsil in   district. When adversities kept creeping and economic trouble were scaling with each day, he came to know about an opportunity in tennis coaching. He readily grabbed the opportunity and that transformed his life 360 degrees.

 The joint coaching initiative of   ( ) and   completely changed the life of Gedam and many more youths from tribal areas from Nagpur division. Earlier, Gedam did not even know a thing about tennis. He had never visited Nagpur city. Now, he is imparting training to number of budding players in other cities other than Nagpur and earning substantial remuneration too.
 
 While sharing his experience about the initiative, Gedam said, “This MSLTA initiative has completely changed my life. There is lot of improvement in my lifestyle and body language. Earlier, I had no knowledge about tennis but after joining the training programme, I have become self-reliant and earning around 45,000 per month by giving a training to budding players.”
 
 He was talking at the launch of AITA Level-4 coaching and officiating Level-1 training workshop, organized by MSLTA and tribal department of of state government, at Ram Nagar tennis centre. Gedam and 17 other youths from backward districts of Vidarbha, are getting advance training from MSLTA CEO Manoj Vaidya and senior coach Hemant Bendre.
 
 Another player Jaikumar Sayam has also have same views about the initiative. “After attending coaching programme, I got good exposure. I even got recruited at Hyderabad’s tennis academy as a coach. Now, I’m giving training to the players at CP Club and earning around 15,000 per month,” he said.
 
 There are around 11 youths from Nagpur, two Chandrapur, two Gondia and one each from Bhandara and Aheri are participating in the three-month training that was formally inaugurated on Sunday.
 
 Assistant tribal commissioner Madhavi Khode spoke about various schemes the state government is planning for tribals.
 
 
