AHMEDABAD: In the last two years, 80 workers died in 73 industrial accidents in Ahmedabad and Vadodara districts. The state government in a written reply to Anklav MLA Amit Chavda, stated that in the two years preceding January 26, 2018, Ahmedabad witnessed six major accidents at six industrial units and 48 minor accidents at another 45 units. 

 In all these 54 accidents, a total of 53 workers had lost their lives. Similarly, in Vadodara district, there were eight major accidents at eight industrial units and 28 minor accidents at 24 units. In these 36 cases, about 32 workers had lost their lives. The government also stated that around Rs 6 crore were paid as compensation for workers who died in these industrial accidents. The government also said that major accidents related to short circuits, mishandling of material, falling from heights or gas leaks at industrial units.
 
 State collected Rs 1,855 crore from cess on construction industry: The state government has stated that it collected Rs 1,855 crore from the welfare fund cess on the construction industry. According to government records, nearly four lakh construction workers are registered with the Shramik Kalyan Board.   leaders claimed that in reply to several questions by Congress MLAs, the government had replied that in the last two years, not a single construction worker was given financial aid of Rs 1.60 lakh to build a house. The assistance is given under the Nanaji Deshmukh Housing Scheme for Workers. The government in its reply said that Rs 40 crore had been used for the welfare of construction workers in 2016, while the sum in 2017 was Rs 50 crore. The government in 2016 began a scheme to provide subsidized food to registered construction workers. According to the government reply, the highest number of workers were registered in Ahmedabad, which accounted for nearly 92,000 registered workers. 
 
 Moneylenders will need gram sabha nod to lend to tribals: The Gujarat assembly passed ‘The Gujarat Moneylenders (Amendment) Bill 2018, to restrict lending of money to tribals in the scheduled areas without the permission of the concerned gram sabha. The amendment aims to control the illegal activity and exploitation of tribals by moneylenders.  , minister of state (MoS) for cooperation, who presented the bill in the house, said, “There is a need to protect the interests of the tribal community from the exploitation of moneylenders. There were some ambiguities in the act, so this amendment was brought by ordinance and this bill has been proposed to ratify the ordinance. This new amendment will empower authorities to not allow moneylending transactions without the permission of the gram sabha.”  , leader of opposition, said, “A number of people are committing suicide in the state due to harassment by moneylenders. The government needs to have the will to end this nuisance, mere amendments will not help much.”
 
 ‘No final order on re-survey till all farmers are satisfied’: The state government assured the assembly that the final order regarding re-surveying of land records will not be finalized till all farmers are satisfied in the village. During the discussion on the re-survey in Gandhinagar and Dang, deputy chief minister   said that the government will not issue the final order till every farmer in a village was satisfied with the land re-survey. Patel was replying to a question by leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani.
 
 
