VISAKHAPATNAM: The   for the disposal of pending applications under the land regularisation scheme ( ) has been extended till May 31. A circular to this extent was sent to   ( ) by the state municipal administration and urban development department on Thursday. Between January 1 and March 31, Vuda disposed off 519 applications, with 3,277 applications still pending with the urban body.

 The LRS, which was introduced to regularise all the unauthorised plots and layouts within Vuda limits, received about 20,400 applications before closure of the scheme in 2015. Vuda officials have regulated 9,211 applications and rejected 6,242 before the end of the processing deadline in the first half of 2017. However, Vuda officials persuaded the government to extend the deadline to process the pending applications, and the government extended the deadline four times in the last seven months (in September and November of 2017, and January and April of 2018).
 
 Vuda vice-chairman P Basanth Kumar informed that they processed 519 applications as of March 31, which was originally the last date for processing the pending applications. “About 305 applications were approved and 214 were rejected, while 3,277 applications await regularisation,” he said.
 
 Through an LRS mela held in December 2017, Vuda officials handed over regularisation certificates to 114 applicants. However, the increased penalty charges, which are collected as per the prevailing market value of land based on sub-registrar records, is said to be the prime reason behind the poor response for the LRS scheme. The land value, meanwhile, has increased manifold since the scheme was launched. Vuda had sent out reminder letters and called the applicants personally to submit the necessary documents and pay the penalty.
 
 According to Vuda officials, some applications were rejected as those plots were developed in government or encroached land or did not meet the guidelines of the scheme. While regulation of unapproved layouts will entitle the applicant to get building permission from the competent authority, Vuda can provide civic amenities like roads and other amenities with the penalisation charges.
 
 
