NEW DELHI: Monday’s high voltage drama involving two Rajya Sabha MPs of   challenging the rejection of the removal motion notice against   in the   and dramatically mentioning it before Justice   ended with a whimper on Tuesday with counsels   and Prashant Bhushan abruptly withdrawing the plea.

 After a bench of Justices Chelameswar and Sanjay Kishan Kaul told Sibal and Bhushan on Monday that they would convey the decision on their plea for urgent listing on Tuesday, the CJI acted swiftly and got the petition by Partap Singh Bajwa and Amee Harshadray Yajnik listed before a Constitution bench comprising judges who are sixth to tenth in the SC hierarchy.
 
 The petition’s main thrust was to attack the legality and constitutionality of Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu’s April 23 order rejecting the notice for removal motion against the CJI submitted on April 20. The two MPs argued that Naidu had no option but to set up an inquiry to probe the charges.
 
 On Tuesday, in front of a packed courtroom, Sibal shifted strategy before a bench of Justices A K Sikri, S A Bobde, N V Ramana, Arun Mishra and Adarsh Goel by questioning the CJI’s moral and legal authority to decide listing of the plea which challenged the rejection of the removal motion against him. 
 
 
 Sibal posed a series of questions: “How did the petition get listed before a five-judge bench when a two-judge bench told us that it would give a determination on Tuesday? Was it by an administrative order of the CJI? We must have a copy of the administrative order so as to decide whether to challenge it. And please tell me where I should mention a petition challenging the legality of CJI’s administrative order to list the petition directly before a five-judge Constitution bench without there being a judicial order.”
 
 The Justice Sikri-led bench asked, “What will turn on the administrative order? We should deal with the merits of the petition. Your questions will lead us nowhere. It is an unprecedented situation. The press conference by the four (senior) judges could have weighed in the administrative decision to list the petition before this bench.”
 
 But Sibal remained unmoved and said, “It is inappropriate for the petitioners to proceed further without getting a copy of the administrative order.
 
 The court is not telling us that the CJI’s administrative order is unassailable. If it feels so, then this will be the only authority under the Constitution whose administrative order cannot be challenged in a court of law.”
 
 When the bench told Sibal that “if you are ready with the matter please go ahead and argue”, the counsel said he agreed with the bench that it was an unprecedented situation but wanted to know whether the CJI had the authority to allocate a petition against him and whether such allocation could be challenged.
 
 The bench sought attorney general K K Venugopal’s view.
 
 The AG said the petition was not maintainable as only two RS MPs from Congress had challenged the chairman’s decision to reject the notice. “This means six other political parties and 62 other MPs who had signed the notice have accepted the ruling,” he added.
 
 Finding the bench not amenable to giving him a copy of the CJI’s administrative order, Sibal abruptly sought withdrawal of the petition and the bench dismissed the petition as withdrawn. At the beginning of the hearing, advocates R P Luthra and Ashwini Upadhyay questioned the propriety of Sibal arguing the case when he was one of the signatories to the removal notice.
 
 They accused him of violating professional standards set by the Bar Council of India, which has barred advocate-politicians who have signed a removal motion from arguing a petition on the same issue in a court of law.
 
