GURUGRAM:   (Huda) is set to remove encroachments from   to clear way for construction of a 600-metre section of   that will merge with  .   will hand over the land to NHAI after clearing all the obstacles.

 “We are going to remove the encroachments in the next two days,” said Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav. Huda will also take possession of the remaining vacant land for the construction of the road. According to Yadav, owners of structures in alignment with the proposed section were allotted alternative plots long ago. As per the final terms of settlement, Huda had to give six months to oustees for relocation after the handover of allotment letters of alternative plots. The deadline ended on August 31, 2017.
 
 More than 568 oustees of the Dwarka expressway project — from Chauma, New Palam Vihar, Kherki Daula and other areas — had applied for alternative plots under the final terms of settlement of 2015, prepared under the supervision of the Punjab and Haryana high court. Huda had identified 212 oustees eligible for rehabilitation and handed over allotment letters to 148 of them in sectors 110A and 37C. However, as many as 64 oustees are holders of general power of attorney (GPA) and special power of attorney (SPA) in the case, and their rehabilitation hopes rest solely on the Punjab and Haryana high court. 
 
 The next hearing on the case related to the settlement of GPA is scheduled for January 8. “We will resolve the GPA issues as per the direction of the high court,” said Yadav, adding that they are hoping to get some relief from the court which will help in completion of the road.
 
 National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) changed the alignment of the Dwarka expressway, which starts from Shiv Murti in Delhi and ends at Kherki Daula in Gurgaon, after declaring it a national highway in 2017. Now, land is being acquired for the central peripheral road (CPR) which will be part of the e-way. The proposed road through Kherki Daula village will only act as a temporary connection between the e-way and NH-8. After completion of the e-way as per the new alignment, this road will be turned into a sector road, connecting sectors 83 and 84 with NH-8.
 
 “Acquisition of additional 10 acres of land for CPR is in process. Meanwhile, the road which passes through Kherki Daula village will connect the e-way with NH-8,” said Yadav. 
 
 
