NAGPUR: Since   attack has been restricted to just two Kerala districts at present, Indian Medical Association ( ) doctors have said that there is no need for people or medical practitioners to get panicked in the city, or for that matter in the state.

 
 IMA had organized a programme on Thursday to share scientific details about Nipah virus with people and create awareness. The virus has been named after a Malaysian village — Kampung Sungai Nipah — where it was first detected in 1998.
 
 Dr Jay Deshmukh, senior physician, said the virus mainly causes inflammation of the brain or encephalitis. The incubation period of the virus is 21 days which means that if a person is exposed to virus, the infection symptoms will start showing in 21 days. If there are no symptoms beyond this period, there is no infection. After 4 to 10 days of the entry of the virus in the body, the person gets fever, headache, body aches, disorientation and mental confusion. The patient can lapse into coma in 1 or 2 days. Some may have cough and breathlessness. The mortality or death in infected persons is as high as 70%.
 
 Dr  , associate professor of microbiology at   (GMCH), said transmission of the virus may occur after direct contact with infected bats, or eating infected pigs or from infected patients. All body fluid of the infected person contains the virus which can be transmitted to another by direct exposure to these fluids or through contact of blood of the two persons. There is no threat if people eat fruits after properly washing it. Only the fruits eaten by fruit-eating bats should not be consumed. The bats leave their secretions in the fruit they eat. Date palm sap also contains it.
 
 Dr Milind Ganvir, assistant director of health services (malaria), pointed out that though there is no need to panic, a high index of suspicion is necessary by physicians. Throats and nasal swabs, brain fluid, urine and blood should be tested in early stages of the disease, but only in highly suspected cases. The Kerala government, he said, has already quarantined 250 persons and is handling the outbreak well. Hence, panicking will only affect tourism and fruit industry there. Any suspected case should be reported to the Disease Surveillance Project at GMCH, he said.
 
 Being a viral infection, there are no specific drugs available to treat Nipah. Treatment is limited to supportive care. As Nipah virus encephalitis can be transmitted from person to person, standard infection control practices and proper barrier nursing techniques are important in preventing hospital-acquired infections. There is no vaccine for the virus at present.
 
 Dr Prakash Deo, IMA member, advised people not to panic, but remain cautious.
 
 In A Nutshell
 
 Virus named after a Malaysian village — Kampung Sungai Nipah — where it was detected first in 1998
 
 Transmission of virus may occur after direct contact with infected bats, or eating infected pigs or from infected patients
 
 It mainly causes inflammation of the brain or encephalitis. The incubation period is 21 days
 
 The infected person gets fever, headache, body aches, disorientation and mental confusion
 
 Mortality in infected persons is as high as 70%. There is no vaccine for the virus at present
 
 No specific drugs are available to treat this. Treatment is limited to supportive care
 
 
