KOLKATA: The   on Monday came down on the State Election Commission yet again after it failed to submit a list of valid   nominations. The party had served the papers to the commission on Saturday. A division bench of Justice Biswanath   and Justice Arindam Mukherjee held that the commission didn’t wake up even after the court gave it a “wake-up” call last Friday.

 The high court directed the commission to furnish the details of the CPM complaints by Monday night and reserved the judgment for Tuesday.
  
  
 The court took exception when SEC counsel Nayan Chand   showed the court two bunches of papers served to the commission by the appellant CPM, praying for inclusion of those names in the list of candidates and submitted that the commission was yet to go through them.
 
 “What were you doing for all these days? Didn’t you wake up after the court passed its order in the Ritzu Ghosal case? Appellant CPM served you the papers on Saturday evening and you didn’t get the time to scrutinise them? Go through them, find out who all submitted enominations within the last hour of the last day of nomination and come to me with the list by 2 pm,” said Justice Somadder. The SEC counsel came hurriedly with the list during hearing after 2pm. But the court gave him time to submit the list in proper form by Monday night. “Work beyond court hours and submit the list by Monday night. If I can work till 10 pm you should also work and submit it by 8 or 9 pm today. The court will pass orders on Tuesday,” the bench held.
 
 The court directive to the commission came following the CPM appeal to the division bench praying for inclusion of candidatures filed electronically when the trial court allowed e-nominations of some candidates sent via WhatsApp. Why wouldn’t the order be applicable to CPM candidates, the party’s lawyer   argued, citing the court order.
 
 The SEC counsel apprised the court that it had received 340 complaints, of which 25 had been sent via e-mail. They include 62 nominations. Bihani also submitted that the commission received them before the last hour of nomination. The bench then asked the commission if it had accepted any nomination sent electronically. The SEC counsel said the poll panel accepted some, following court order. Citing Section 46 of the West Bengal Panchayat Act, 2003, Bihani submitted that the law doesn’t provide for accepting e-nominations. “Under the law, a candidate or his proposer has to file the candidature in person,” Bihani said. Justice Somadder then wanted to know why the provision is not in the Act.
 
 Justice Somadder then turned to advocate general   and sought his opinion. “The state has no role to play in this regard because the matter comes under the jurisdiction of the SEC,” the advocate general said. The bench, however, didn’t buy the argument on the ground that law and order comes under the purview of the state government and candidates have alleged that they faced obstructions during filing of nominations. “The state can’t abdicate its responsibility,” the bench held.
 
 
