NAGPUR: If widened NH6 passing through   on Amravati Road poses threat to wild animals, illegal brick kilns on revenue land surrounding forest areas of   in Kalmeshwar range are not far behind in endangering the tigers.

 There are at least nine illegal brick kilns in Nagpur (Rural) in Kalmeshwar, where there is regular movement of resident population of 4-5 tigers. Some tigers even share Katlabodi territory with Bor Tiger Reserve (BTR). These tigers are grown-up cubs of dominant Katlabodi tigress re-released in the wild in February 2011.
 
 Nagpur (Rural) tehsildar Sushantkiran   admitted that brick kilns near Kalmeshwar forest have applied for extension of permission this year but it has not been granted yet.
 
 “The issue was brought to my notice last month by RFO concerned. I have asked the patwari concerned to inquire into it and submit a report,” Bansode told TOI.
 
 According to sources, Kalmeshwar RFO Nilesh Gawande, on February 1, registered preliminary offence report (POR) against a brick kiln owner Anil Barai, who had encroached upon two hectares protected forest land in Bhuyari for manufacturing bricks.
 
 “We have seized over 3 lakh bricks produced on forest land. These brick kilns are situated in Ladhai, Khairi and Bhuyari areas,” Gawande confirmed.
 
 However, according to NGOs working for tigers in Kalmeshwar there is political pressure on staff for not taking action against brick kiln owners and also release the seized bricks. In 2013, district collector was apprised about these brick kilns.
 
 Nagpur deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) G Mallikarjuna said, “Earlier, in   we had sought closure of brick kilns proving detrimental to tigers around forest areas. In Kalmeshwar too, a similar request will be made to the district collector.”
 
 On April 5, 2013, the then RFO had written to Nagpur DyCF about these kilns. No   has been taken from the forest department to operate them. Respective tehsildars were also apprised about the problem but even after five years no action has been taken so far.
 
 According to a former malgujar of the area and wildlife lover Chandrakant Deshmukh tigers and other wild animals are at risk as labourers working in these kilns. “These labourers, from MP and  , enter into the forest for firewood and there is every possibility they may be indulging in poaching. Tractors involved in extracting sand also move in the forest during night,” said Deshmukh.
 
 The then DyCF on April 20, 2013 had written to collector about these kilns but there is no action.
 
 
