BENGALURU: Three conmen were arrested by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) for allegedly cheating three people of Rs 16 lakh after promising them jobs in the police constabulary. 

  Police said they have recovered Rs 6.25 lakh from the trio -   alias Madegowda, 43, of Konanakunte,   Ramesh, 29, of   and Rajanna alias Raju BBH, 66, of Amruthahalli. Cops suspect they might have taken several others for a ride and are investigating. 
 
 Recently, Dileep filed a complaint with Ashokanagar police against Rajanna and Mahadevaiah, saying they had cheated his friend, Chandru, of Rs 5.5 lakh after promising to get his brother a constable's job in the Hassan battalion of   in 2014.
 
 Considering the seriousness of the allegation, police commissioner T   referred the case to CCB police. 
 
 N Satheesh Kumar, joint commissioner of police (crime), formed a team headed by ACP H M Mahadevappa and police inspector R Prakash. The team however found that the complainant himself was a middleman in the case and arrested him, along with Mahadevaiah and Rajanna. Another suspect, identified as Harish, is at large, police said.
 
 Police said the gang had taken money from three people - Chandru's brother Shankar, Ravi Kiran and Viji - promising them jobs in KSRP. While Shankar gave the conmen Rs 5.5 lakh, Ravi Kiran gave Rs 7 lakh and Viji Rs 3.5 lakh for the promised jobs. All three had applied for the post of constables in KSRP in 2014. 
 
 The accused, however, could neither get them the jobs nor refund the money. When the trio began pressuring Dileep to return the money, he filed a cheating case against Mahadevaiah and Rajanna to establish his innocence. 
 
 Police said Mahadevaiah was earlier arrested for allegedly cheating several people after promising them BDA sites and collecting money from them. He allegedly went around claiming to be a close relative of then chief minister B S Yeddyurappa. The case is under investigation. The other two arrested are under police scanner for the first time.
 
