MUSSOORIE: Youngsters going to Mussoorie will soon have to contend with questioning by the   police which plans to check whether they are going there with their parents’ approval or not.
 
  Newly-appointed station house officer (SHO) of  , Bhawna  , who incidentally is the first woman SHO in the town, said on Wednesday that additional police personnel would be deployed on the road from Dehradun to Mussoorie to “question youngsters who are going to the hill station and to cross-check from their parents if they have allowed them to go.”
  
  The move, she added, has been planned to “curb the number of youngsters going to the hill station". She said: “We have deployed four additional personnel at the Kolhu khet check point to keep an eye on youngsters going to Mussoorie. The step was deemed necessary to ensure law and order on the road. It will also help us ensure the safety of the children themselves,” she said, adding that Mussoorie police has also asked for additional alcohometers — as the town currently has only one — to monitor the menace of drunken driving more effectively.
  
  The move by police to question youngsters evoked mixed reactions with many terming it an act of moral policing.  , a 25-year-old student, told TOI that “this is an infringement of people’s privacy.” “The only thing that should be checked by police are the vehicle’s papers and validity of driving licenses. The other things they are proposing to do are to my mind a complete violation of privacy.”
  
   , a 19-year-old who is pursuing engineering from a Dehradun college, termed the move “bizarre.” “I don't understand how police can stop people who are above 18 and quiz their parents about their movement.”
  
  Sanjay Aggarwal, secretary, Mussoorie Hotel Association, said that a lot will depend on how police is planning to implement the move. "If the parents of children who are 18 and above are called up, it will only embarrass the children or put the parents in an odd spot. However, I feel that the ones below 18 should definitely be checked.”
  
  Another apprehension expressed by those in the hospitality industry was that these curbs would impact business in the town which relies heavily on tourist traffic. “At least 70% of people who check into hotels here are youngsters. Families come only during summer holidays or when schools are closed. In off season especially, we get a lot of the young crowd. But with police monitoring their movement, it will definitely hit our business,” said Naveen Goel, proprietor of Hotel City Castle.
