PATNA:   and   N R Madhava Menon on Saturday said the stabbing of   P Vishwanath Shetty inside his chamber earlier this week by a litigant was a   and tribunal chiefs across the country.

 “The fact that people are resorting to reactive measures against injustice is a cause of concern,” Menon said while addressing the convocation ceremony of   (CNLU) as chief guest here on Saturday. “There is a fear of injustice among people. The judiciary should realise this so that the incidents like the unfortunate attack on Karnataka Lokayukta are not repeated,” Menon said.
 
 Supreme Court Justice Navin Sinha, Patna high court Chief Justice Rajendra Menon, Justice Anil Kumar Upadhyay, Justice Ajay Kumar Tripathi, Padma Vibhushan awardee and Attorney General of India K K Venugopal, Advocate General Lalit Kishore, P K Shahi and Shiv Kumar of Indian Law Institute, Delhi, were also present at the function.
 
 Menon said at least 1.5 years of five-year law course should be dedicated to train law students in mediation, policy development, drafting and arbitration. “The country needs lawyers with expertise in handling bankruptcy cases. Now that the Supreme Court has pronounced historic judgment on euthanasia, the country needs lawyers having expertise in medical field,” Menon said, adding the courts and tribunals are burdened with three crore cases due to the failure of the system,”.
 
 Menon also raised concern over lawyers shouting at judges during hearings in Supreme Court.
 
 Attorney General Venugopal was conferred with honorary PhD in law by CNLU chancellor and Patna HC Chief Justice Menon.
 
 Altogether 298 students from 2010-2015, 2011-2016 and 2012-2017 batches were given bachelor degrees and ten students PhD degrees in the convocation. Akriti Gautam and Sakshat Bansal of 2010-2015 batch, Shaleen Mishra, Kiran Kachhawaha and Shivang Tripathy of 2011-2016 batch and Amit Kumar, Shambhavi Mishra, Bhavesh Chandra, Nadini Suman and Anwesha Tripathi of 2012-2017 batch were given different medals.
 
 
