Priya Kumar* and her husband Sriram* have been on tenterhooks since the proposal to curb extensions on H-1B visa has been under discussion. Both work with large IT majors in the US and have applied for   which are under process.

 With a six-year-old daughter and a 78-year-old dependent parent, they are worried over future healthcare costs. With the elderly dependent suffering from type B diabetes and needing a daily dose of insulin shots and full-time nursing care, they feel moving back to India at this juncture might prove too arduous.
 
 Around 50,000 professionals from Tamil Nadu are supposed to be working in the US, either with a Green Card or other visas (L1, F1, O1, H-1B) of which around 22,000 are likely to be affected by the H-1B visa restriction, say industry observers.
 
 IT industry body   has warned that if the   administration's proposal is accepted, it will have wide ramifications for IT professionals besides affecting US competitiveness. Some professionals have taken relief under the indefinite extension offered by the H-1B programme if their Green Card is pending.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Many homemakers staying in the US on spouse-dependent visas find themselves in limbo. “I have not been able to attend my grandmother’s funeral rites or my sister’s wedding. My visa has been put on hold and my fear is if I leave now, I don't know when I'll see my husband (on H-1B visa/ Green Card applicant) and kids again,” says Maya George, 33.
 
 Mark Davies, a US immigration lawyer, says Indian IT professionals in the US are under real strain.
 
 “People do not want to rely on the H-1B route anymore. They are exploring other options like the O visa (extraordinary ability in various areas) or EB 5 visa (investment liked),” he said.
 
 Davies adds that several clients of his who have come through the H-1B visa programme have now taken shelter under the EB 5 visa by investing half a million dollars in the US. “Most techies here earn well and can afford to invest this sum. That is the reality,” he said.
 
 For many, news of the proposal is merely an addition to their woes. For Anup Raja who works with Amazon, the H-1B term expires in December 2018.
 
 “I can't travel because the green card process is under way. My wife is on spousal visa and cannot work despite having a double masters degree. We have postponed having kids because we’re on a single income,” said Raja. It is a race against time for the couple.
 
 “We are exploring other countries. India is always an option but that means starting all over — selling the house here below market price, withdrawing social security savings and incurring penalties,” said Raja.
 
 For migrants on H-1B, domestic travel within the US has become a nightmare. Even Indian-origin US citizens get stopped and searched at airports, says Mythili Sampathkumar. Or in the case of US citizen  , who was told she was “under criminal investigation” by police, who detained her for taking a walk without citizenship papers.
 
 “Hearing such stories, I have stopped all domestic travel. We travel hundreds of kilometers in our sedan to avoid border patrol, customs, despite being legally permitted to reside in the US,” says Maya.
 
 Many techies are confident that the proposal won’t come through. Ajay Durai, 32, works with one of the IT majors and has been in the US for the last five years now. “As far as you can show that you are working on a project/client, there shouldn’t be an issue. IT professionals with smaller companies are the ones who are panicking,” said Durai. Techies there add that a move towards curbing extensions will lead to a large exodus of skilled talent. “CEOs of large companies will oppose such a move,” said a techie in Dallas.
 
 
 
 
