GURUGRAM: Just as Haryana celebrated the rise in its annual sex ratio at birth to a record 914, the   — an 11-year-old in Panipat, a 15-year-old whose body washed up at a canal’s banks in Jind, and a 14-year-old who was abducted from Faridabad’s Sector 31 and gang raped by two men overnight — have rocked the state over the last 72 hours. Another sexual assault during the same period was reported from Faridabad, on a 23-year-old woman in a moving car, raising questions not only about the safety of women in the state, but law-and-order overall. 

 Faridabad and Panipat are among the three Haryana districts, along with Gurugram, that report the most number of case filed under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, between April 1 and December 31, 2017 — Faridabad (129), Gurugram (112) and Panipat (71). 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 In terms of total number of Pocso cases under trial, these three districts also report the highest numbers — Faridabad (176), Gurugram (150) and Panipat (110) — along with Rohtak (135). Faridabad also has the worst conviction rate (13%) in Pocso cases. Gurugram (46%) and Panipat (42%) have better numbers, but they lag well behind Ambala and Sonipat (63%). 
 
 The incidents reveal the dire straits in which the state finds itself, with 1,106 cases registered under Pocso between April 1 and December 31, 2017. The corresponding figures for 2015-16 and 2016-17 are 1,057 and 1,029 respectively. What further exacerbates the situation is that only 34% of the accused (199 people) have been convicted across the state. In fact, in three districts — Mewat, Rewari and Narnaul — conviction rate is 0%, as all accused have been acquitted. 
 
 In the same period, 395 people have been acquitted. The maximum number of acquittals have been reported in Fatehabad (99) and Faridabad (39), followed by Gurugram with 21. In contrast, further appeals have been filed in only 21% of the cases. Together, the data highlights the low impact of preventive laws and low conviction rate in the state. Officials have now been asked to review the acquittals in Fatehabad and Faridabad, to plan a strategy and further course of action.
 
 “We’re taking such cases seriously. We want to reassure all that the guilty will be given the harshest punishment. We have been training volunteers in villages to spread awareness about sexual abuse and bad touch within rural families,” said Kavita Jain, state minister for women and child development.
 
 However, social activists say that along with enforcement, the government should now focus on changing the mindset of people towards women. “What has happened is really disturbing and heartbreaking. We’ve somehow managed to change the outlook within families towards the girl child and against female foeticide. But we also need to work towards changing the mindset of society towards women and their safety. 
 
 “We owe it to our girls that they are provided a free and secure environment. If we tell our boys to respect women, they will teach the same to their sons, and it will take only a generation to change the mindset. It’s time we did something about it,” said Swarnlata Malik, social activist working against female foeticide.
 
 
