CHENNAI: When former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s health showed no improvement after a heart attack on December 4, 2016, Vice-President and then Union minister   was briefed about taking her off life support after around 10.30pm, the Arumughaswamy commission was informed on Monday by VK Sasikala’s counsel.

 Along with Naidu, ministers O Panneerselvam, C Vijayabaskar and Lok Sabha deputy speaker M Thambidurai were also briefed. Jayalalithaa eventually passed away on December 5. In the period between the cardiac arrest and removal of life support, efforts were made to resuscitate her, but the ECG was showing a flat curve, said Sasikala’s counsel, quoting medical documents submitted in the commission.
 
 Sudha Seshaiyan, the doctor who carried out the embalming of Jayalalithaa’s body, was cross-examined by Sasikala’s counsel in the commission on Monday. She said she started the embalming procedure at 11.30pm on December 5, Sasikala’s counsel   said, quoting the cross-examination. She also said there were no major injuries to Jayalalithaa, proving wrong reports of having a head injury, said Pandian, quoting proceedings of the cross-examination.
 
 On December 3, the   doctors had spoken to her for 20 minutes during which she sat on a chair but could not stand, Pandian said, quoting medical documents. Her heart was also in good shape as was documented by a cardiologist brought by the AIIMS team, Pandian quoted from the submitted documents.
 
 Former secretary to Jayalalithaa K Venkatraman stated during cross-examination that former chief secretary Rama Mohan Rao met Jayalalithaa on the night of September 22 and morning of September 23, 2016, Pandian said. “She categorically told Rama Mohan Rao that they should spread word to dispel rumours about her death, which were making the rounds on social media then,” Pandian quoted Venkatraman as saying in the cross-examination. This was consistent with Rao’s statements to the commission as well.
 
 Sasikala’s niece Illavarasi and nephew Vivek Jayaraman also appeared for the cross-examination on Monday.
 
 
