Ludhiana: After the fake video and messages on social media regarding measles and rubella vaccination went viral, parents have become sceptical whether they should get the vaccination done or not. Since vaccination is to be done in schools, worried parents are asking teachers about this vaccination. However, the district health department assured that vaccination was 100% safe, and videos and messages were totally fake.

 In the video, it is being shown that vaccination was being injected in a particular community, so that they do not increase their population. They are spreading the rumour that vaccination can make boys impotent and girls infertile. In the video, allegations have been levelled against RSS and the Modi government. So, some parents expressed concern about the vaccination. But some videos are also circulating positive messages regarding the vaccination to encourage parents to get the vaccinations done.
 
 Rupali Thakur, a parent, said a few days ago, a lady had come from the health department in their area to create awareness regarding the vaccination, and said vaccination was compulsory, but Rupali said she would not get the vaccination done in the school because of such fears. She said they would check out the name of the medicine and get the vaccination done from a paediatrician from where they get other vaccinations. Another worried parent, Sonika Narang, said they would also get the vaccination done from outside, because it was not safe to get it done at school where parents were not present.
 
 Health officials claimed some notorious persons were spreading fake videos and messages about this vaccination that it could make children of a particular community impotent or infertile. Around six schools had also conveyed to the district health department that parents of children in their school did not want to get the vaccination done in the school.
 
 One of the health officials claimed that in Ludhiana, around 12.5 lakh children were to be vaccinated during the campaign, and without caring about caste, creed, and colour of children, they would give the vaccination to them. He said there was no question of attacking a particular community, and moreover, the vaccination was free, which private pharmacy companies were unable to digest, so they had planned the fake messages and videos.
 
 District immunization officer Dr Jasbir Singh said the vaccination was safe and sound, and there was no link between measles rubella and infertility. He said some people were trying to create a misconception, so they had already submitted a complaint to the cyber cell to look into the matter and find out the persons behind the videos. He said their teams would talk to parents and school authorities for making them aware about the vaccination.
 
 Notably, just to prove the videos and messages fake, deputy commissioner Pradeep Aggarwal also got his eight-year-old daughter Diya vaccinated on the first day of the drive. 
 
 
