HYDERABAD: Flying high on the 20% growth clocked by the Indian civil aviation industry over the past three years, the government is pulling out all the stops to put the sector on the fast track — be it the divestment of PSUs like   or  , aggressive expansion of aviation infrastructure or even sharper focus on skill development.

 The government will be inviting expressions of interest (EoIs) for stakesalein Air India and Pawan Hans “in the next couple of weeks”, said Union civil aviation secretary RN Choubey at the inaugural day of WINGS INDIA 2018, the biennial civil aviation and aerospace event that kicked off in Hyderabad on Thursday.
 
 On the government’s big play on regional connectivity or UDAN ( ), he said it is going full steam ahead to spruce up airport infrastructure with   (AAI) earmarking ?18,000 crore towards airport upgradation over the next four years.
 
 Choubey also expressed optimism that the amendment to the AAI Act will be moved in the current budget session. “We hope to move it in the current session and thereafter it is for the   (to clear). If the matter is referredto a select committee, it may take a little longer. But if everything goes well, I think the amendment should happen in six months,” he said.
 
 Giving a sneak peek into the international version of UDAN — UDAN version 2.0 — Choubey said the government is keen on encouraging states to use the UDAN platform to offer international connectivity and urged them to take a cue from Assam which plans to start international UDAN flights to   countries by providing a subsidy of ?100 crore per year for the next three years. “State governments will have to provide subsidy. We will not be providing it from RC Fund,” he clarified.
 
 Outlining the government’s efforts to boost regional air connectivity, Choubey said much will hinge on oil prices remaining soft. He also admitted that the lack of land availability and land acqusition for creating airport infrastructure poses major hurdles.
 
 On the growing requirement of skilled manpower, he said the sector would require between 8,000 to 10,000 pilots in the next five to six years.
 
