Exactly nine days after pacer Mohammad Shami’s wife   filed a formal complaint against the cricketer, a   team reached the ancestral residence of Shami at   in UP on Saturday. Though they could not meet anyone in the house as his family had shifted, the cops took stock of the place where Shami’s brother had allegedly tried to molest and rape Jahan. The pacer now is reportedly putting up in Delhi, where he was questioned by the   anti-corruption unit recently.

 With Shami hinting that he was no more looking at an out of court settlement, the police also said they were planning to record his statement. The cricketer has reportedly claimed he has several evidences that will refute charges brought against him.
 
  
 A four-member team of BCCI’s anti-corruption unit, meanwhile, visited Kolkata to probe the match fixing charges against him. The team went to Lalbazar, where they recorded the statement of Jahan. Earlier through her lawyer, Jahan had e-mailed some important “evidences” that she claimed to have collected from her husband.
 
 Sources said the four-member team was especially interested in unravelling the alleged money trail that has its origin in Dubai. “More than any other specific part of the complaint lodged by Jahan, the BCCI is worried about a purported conversation between Jahan and Shami where the latter reportedly said he was in Dubai to ‘hand over some money’,” said the source.
 
 Shami has denied the allegations till now. The BCCI team has also sought police help in accessing crucial evidence, sources told TOI.
 
 The detective department has also spoken and recorded the statements of Jahan’s father and her two daughters from her first marriage. Police sources said they were approaching the Dubai hotel to secure the footage of the hotel when Shami had reportedly put up there between February 17 and February 19. “This is to primarily ascertain if someone else —especially a woman — can be spotted with the cricketer,” said an officer.
 
 The rapid developments on Saturday come hours before Jahan is slated to record her magisterial statement on Monday. Kolkata Police have charged Shami and his brother under sections of the Indian Penal Code related to rape, domestic violence and using poison.
 
 
 
 
 
