CHANDIGARH: A day after the Supreme Court cancelled the Manesar land acquisition in Gurgaon and indicted former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, his successor   has announced a   probe into land acquisitions at Rohtak and Sonipat.

 Speaking in the state assembly during the budget session on Tuesday, Khattar elaborated on the SC order while announcing the probe into the acquisition process that was undertaken during the previous   regime led by Hooda.
 
 The other cases of land acquisition during the Congress rule that have been handed over to the CBI, include   of Rohtak and three villages namely, Nangal, Aterna and Sersa of Sonipat. Land measuring 885 acres of these villages was to be acquired.
 
 “The question arises why land measuring 650 acres was released. Now, this case had been handed over to CBI and action would be taken on the basis of its findings,” said Khattar.
 
 Referring to the   report, the CM said the advocate general (AG) had given an undertaking in the Punjab and Haryana high court not to make the report public, and the Supreme Court had directed the high court to dispose of this case within a period of two months. Action would be taken as per recommendations, he added.
 
 Coming down heavily on the opposition, the CM said these leaders had no right to talk about the plight of farmers. “They themselves had acquired the lands of farmers just to benefit some builders. ‘Inka aisa koi saga nahi, jinko Congress ne thaga nahi. (There is no one dear to the Congress,whic it has not cheated),” he said.
 
 The CM said the Haryana government had already handed over to the CBI investigations into three cases of re-allotment of a plot to Associated Journals Limited (AJL) in Panchkula, industrial plot allotment by Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) in Panchkula, and the Manesar land scam.
 
 Khattar said, “The Supreme Court has, in its verdict, set aside the land acquisition process executed by the previous Congress government in Manesar. It had threatened innocent farmers and extended huge benefits to real estate developers and builders in the name of land acquisition during its rule,” he said.
 
 
