BENGALURU: The state government is contemplating formulating a separate set of licensing rules, with special focus on fire safety, for hotels, bars and restaurants. This comes in the wake of the blaze at a bar and restaurant in   on Monday that killed five men.

 “We want to bring in rules to cover all kinds of eateries, including bars and restaurants,” said M N Reddi, director general of fire and emergency services department. “Consultations with stakeholders are under way.”
 
 Following the Kalasipalya blaze, it dawned on the government that there is a lack of clarity on who could crack down on establishments and buildings in case of violations. At present, the role of the fire department is limited to issuing a no-objection certificate to highrises housing resto bars. Based on this NOC, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) issues trade and restaurant licences, while the excise department issues liquor vending licences.
 
 It case of violations, the fire department cannot straight away cancel licences. It can only send a recommendation to the authorities concerned. Also, fire safety clearances are only mandatory for buildings of a height of 15 metres and above. Even the excise department cannot cancel liquor vending licences on its own. That power rests with the deputy commissioner (revenue), the licensing authority. 
 
 The BBMP issues trade and restaurant licences separately based on the NOCs issued by various departments including fire safety, food safety and Bescom. It has to coordinate with these departments and utility agency before taking a decision to alter the status of the licence.
 
 “There is a need to revamp the present system where disparate entities are at work and the process of monitoring and enforcement is lost in labyrinthine bureaucracy,” said A Mujahid Pasha, chairman of BBMP public health committee. “We are looking at an integrated system. These issues will be discussed at the next BBMP council meeting.”
 
 The fire department and BBMP began a crackdown on rooftop bars in the city over safety violations after last month’s fire in a Mumbai pub which killed 14 people. The Palike issued closure notices to as many as 80 resto bars housed in highrises. 
 
 The Kalasiplaya tragedy, however, has thrown up fresh problems. For one the ill-fated Kailash Bar & Restaurant was located on the ground floor. Also, it was housed in a four-storey building (below 15 metres in height) which left it out of purview of any kind of monitoring for fire safety.
 
 The BBMP is expected to file a comprehensive report on closure notices issued to the rooftop pubs and bar and restaurants in the Karnataka high court on Thursday. 
 
 “The present rules are a little liberal as it focuses only on two aspects,” Pasha said. “Before issuing a licence, the authorities only have to check whether the establishment is located in a commercial zone and if the approach road is at least 40ft wide. But this is not enough. Other safety factors will have to be included in the rules.”
 
 
 
 
 Excise officials, who recommended suspension of the liquor licence of Kailash Bar & Restaurant for 60 days, said there is a need for more stringent rules and the department should be empowered to enforce them.
 
 “Bar and restaurants are susceptible to fire as they stock alcohol, a combustible substance,” an official said. “Proper ventilation, easy access from the road and proper entries and exits are factors. While we are authorised to conduct spot inspections, the excise department is not empowered to cancel licences on spot. This is a big loophole.”
 
 Sound pollution: Rooftop cafe told to respond to BBMP notice
 
 The high court on Wednesday disposed of a petition filed by the management of a rooftop cafe and restaurant in Indiranagar I Stage, asking them submit their response to the BBMP joint commissioner (east).
 
 Justice Vineet Kothari noted that the order cited by the petitioner—Tamarind Foods, which runs   bar—is in the nature of a notice and it is appropriate for them to respond to the same. “Give (BBMP) your evidence regarding the steps you have initiated,” the judge told the petitioner.
 
 The BBMP had issued notice to the petitioner on December 26, 2017 over sound pollution and other issues. 
 
 
  
 
