NAGPUR: In view of the geo-political tensions across the globe, there is a critical need to sensitize general public about   disarmament, feels professor of history and director of Nuclear Studies Institute, USA, Peter Kuznick.

 To fulfil this objective, Kuznick is touring major cities in India to make people realize the devastation an all-out nuclear will cause.
 
 On Thursday, Kuznick met city’s media persons and explained why strained relations between nuclear nations — US, Russia, North Korea (DPRK), China, India and   — are a cause for concern. Kuznick is credited with co-authoring book ‘The Untold Story of the US’ with Hollywood filmmaker Oliver Stone debunking various myths about the nation’s history taught to the public there.
 
 “The state of the world is so delicate that a nuclear war could start any moment and the situation worsens with by actions of the US president Donald Trump and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (also known as North Korea) leader Kim Jong Un. On one hand, Trump is a pathological liar, a narcissist and unfit to be the president. On the other, DPRK is increasing its nuclear capabilities posing a threat to neighbouring Japan and South Korea,” said Kuznick.
 
 It is roughly estimated that the total number of nuclear warheads is close to 15,000 in the world and nearly 93% of them are in possession of the US and Russia, with the latter marginally having more numbers. Instead of dismantling the existing arsenal, many countries are modernizing their missiles to have a longer range with greater accuracy, said Kuznick.
 
 “India and Pakistan, both with significant nuclear capabilities, have been at war multiple times with each other since partition. If a short nuclear war were to occur, the results would be catastrophic,” said Kuznick. He says the enormous dust clouds after an explosion will block sunrays for months leading to a nuclear winter. Radiation would contaminate the soil rendering it useless for agriculture and result in death of millions.
 
 “If there is an all-out nuclear war in the world, the possibility of human race becoming extinct is very likely,” he added.
 
 Former US president Barack Obama did make an attempt to dismantle most of the country’s nuclear stockpiles but was met with opposition in the US Congress, informs Kuznick. Trump, on the contrary, has increased the military budget and might spend over $1 trillion over the next few years, he said.
 
 Kuznick urged people to understand the graveness of nuclear proliferation and press for nuclear disarmament. “We have to take lead because our leaders have failed to realize their actions will have severe consequences,” he said.
 
 
