Pune: The traffic police has taken action against 892   for fitting   and bull bars in the last 12 days and collected fines worth Rs 4.51 lakh.

 Fitment of crash guards and bull bars pose safety concern for pedestrians as well commuters travelling in vehicles. In December last, the Centre had asked the states to take stern action against it. “Our drive against illegal fitment of crash guards and bull bars began on January 4 in the city. We will continue the drive,” said V V Bajare, inspector (traffic branch).
 
 Police have taken action against such vehicles under sections 190 and 191 of the Motor Vehicles Act which prescribes a fine of Rs 1,000 for driver for the first offence and Rs 2,000 for the second. There is a penalty provision of Rs 5,000 for sellers under the Act.
 
 Bajare said that as per the law, fitment of crash guards is illegal. “The crash guards or bull bars on vehicles pose serious safety concern for pedestrians as well as occupants of the vehicle,” Bajare said.
 
 “The bonnet of four-wheelers has been designed for safety of pedestrians. If a vehicle knocks down a pedestrian, he is flung on the bonnet due to the impact and its design prevents him from getting away from the car and subsequently receive less injuries,” Bajare said adding, “Crash guards or bull bars can cause death of the victim.”
 
 Bajare said that crash guards or bull bars can cause life threat to the occupants of the vehicle. “Normally, the guard is fitted on the vehicle’s chassis. If the vehicle meets with an accident, the sensors of the air bags which are fitted on the bumper of the vehicle fail to sense the impact immediately. It results in late deployment of air bags and can cause death of the occupant,” Bajare said.
 
 Action against all vehicles
 
 The crash guards and bull bars are mainly fitted on sports utility and commercial vehicles. “We have started taking action against all vehicles. People should not fit crash guards or bull bars on their vehicles,” Bajare said.
 
 A truck owner from Kothrud area told TOI that everyday he had to go to the Market Yard where several transport vehicles are parked. “Many times head lamps or tail lamps of my truck had been damaged while parking in the parking lot. To prevent damages, I have fitted crash guards. Now I will have to remove it, because the traffic police have started taking action against it,” the owner said.
 
 He said that instead of taking action the government should ban production of crash guards and bull bars.
 
 
