HYDERABAD: Virtual and unregulated crypto currencies are not only making inroads into the city in newer ways, but there is a huge push to get more and more people into the crypto currency network.

 
 A sample of aggressive marketing with ‘giving a taste’ and ‘come on board’ approach by a crypto exchange is currently available at coffee shops selling gift vouchers. The vouchers announce ‘buy your first   here’.
 
  
  
 Bitcoin gift vouchers for less than ₹200 are being sold at coffee shops in the city and are seeing patronage with huge curiosity about bitcoins fuelling demand.
 
 “I have heard from a few friends about bitcoins and how they have gained a lot from investing in it. Although they have invested huge amounts, this is only a small sum and once I learn a little more, I can trade in a big way,” said a buyer, who did not wish to be identified. He added that people trading in crypto currencies demand a huge cut when approached to trade on behalf of an investor. Although Bitcoin has crashed a couple of times, the lure remains.
 
 The fact that the value of any crypto currency, including bitcoins is not backed by any commodity, makes a crypto currency wallet, a risky game. “Trying to push people into testing and trying is a worrisome trend. Not only encouraging the use of crypto currency but the fact that crypto currency exists and is being accepted is worrisome as well. The fact that attempts like this (voucher) projecting a bitcoin wallet as a normal wallet, can be very misleading for people who do not know the basics of the virtual currency,” explains  , professor co-innovation at IIIT-Hyderabad.
 
 “A paytm wallet and a crypto currency wallet are not the same thing and since crypto currency has no oversight or regulation and is fluctuating, this becomes a big gamble,” he said. “People who do not know what is blockchain and what decentralized currency is (bitcoin is an example) they should stay away from the lure. There are fraud companies too out there,” said  , a startup entrepreneur.
 
