MUMBAI: In a first, the state police will breed canines for the force, as against buying them from outside. This will be done at a state-of-the-art training centre to come up at   near Pune. At present, there are 341 dogs pressed into service across the state. Also, guard dogs and patrolling dogs have been introduced in Naxal-affected areas of the state to attack insurgents attempting to strike.

 
 Currently, canines are trained at a unit at Shivaji Nagar in Pune which is over five decades old. The infrastructure here is severely inadequate. “The unit has 20 kennels and no separate training ground. Sick dogs have to be taken to a veterinary hospital at Aundh,” said a senior officer. Most of the state police canines are sent for training to Tekanpur in Madhya Pradesh, Alwar in Rajasthan or the Indo-Tibetan Border Police Force’s training centre in Chandigarh.
 
  
  
 
 The government has allocated a 14-acre plot at Daund which will have 50 kennels, a training ground, equipment and a veterinary hospital. “The project is being undertaken by the   and has reached the tender stage. Drawings of the site are ready. Once the centre comes up, we are hopeful that forces from other states will send their dogs to Maharashtra for training,” said the officer. The police force ropes in canines essentially for three tasks—crime detection, narcotics detection and explosives detection. Last year, canines were procured for guarding and patrolling duty in Naxal-affected areas of Gondia, Gadchiroli, Chandrapur and  . “We wanted an attack dog, that is ferocious and aggressive, to guard police camps, accompany them on patrols and sniff out mines and explosives. We conducted a study and found that the Belgian Malinois has had a good track record with the CRPF. We started to procure these dogs for Naxal-affected areas and have pressed 14 of them into service so far. We intend to purchase 32 more Belgian Malinois,” said additional director general, CID, Sanjeev Kumar Singhal.
 
 The average work life of a police dog is 10 to 12 years. They are purchased as pups and not trained as long as they are underage (below 6 months). Maharashtra is among the few states that has come up with regulations on how to assign dogs within the force. “Depending on the topography of a district, number of police stations in it, type of crimes reported and urban-rural division, canines are assigned. For instance, sensitive cities like Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Aurangabad would be assigned more explosive detection dogs,” said an officer.
 
