KOLKATA:   and   were observing the first death anniversary of their four-month-old daughter on Thursday when they were informed about West Bengal Medical Council’s decision to chargesheet doctors accused of medical negligence.

  died exactly a year ago at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals (AGH), hours after the infant was subjected to a colonoscopy procedure. The news came as a ray of hope for the couple.
 
  
 “This news has brought a renewed hope for justice. We only know how painful life has been in the past one year without our daughter. I hope the doctors are booked as soon as possible,” said Abhjit.
 
 The four-month-old was initially admitted to ESI Joka on April 13, 2017 with complaints of blood in stool. The baby was referred to AGH on April 15 for colonoscopy to understand the reason for the bleeding. The infant was allegedly kept without any food for 12 hours each on two consecutive days before the procedure was conducted on the second day. The child did not wake up from the anesthesia and died on April 19 last year after suffering two cardiac arrests.
 
 “We miss our child every day. She would have celebrated her first birthday on December 13 and we had big plans for the occasion. Only that she is not around any more. We keep hoping for justice every day. This news from the medical council on her first death anniversary brings us a ray of hope,”   said.
 
 After a series of hearing at the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) was over, the couple got busy attending the hearings at the medical council. The last hearing they attended was on December 4.
 
 “It was sheer medical negligence that killed my daughter. We had to take up this battle so that our daughter gets justice. The health commission verdict was a morale booster. We are hopeful that the council too will deliver justice,” she said.
 
 The couple had refused a compensation of Rs 30 lakh from the hospital as penalty imposed by WBCERC. They said all they want is punishment for the guilty.
 
 “We did not lodge complaint to that we get compensation. The WBCERC verdict held the hospital of guilty in this case,” Abhjit said.
 
 
