BEHRAMPORE: Chief minister   on Monday strongly rebutted   governor Keshari Nath Tripathi’s claim that the Centre’s ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ programme was a better project than the state’s own ‘Kanyashree’ scheme.

 “Some people (without naming the governor) have been saying that the Centre’s ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Tarao (sic)’ programme is better than Kanyashree. But look at the allocation the Centre has made for the entire country. It is only Rs 100 crore. Bengal has allotted Rs 1,200 crore yearly for the project,” the chief minister said at a public meeting in Behrampore, targeting both the governor and the Narendra Modi government.
 
 Banerjee went on to showcase Bengal’s ‘Swastha Sathi’ programme offering free medical treatment and surgery at government hospitals and held that the Centre should learn a lesson or two from the state instead of highlighting its health insurance scheme that banks on 40% fund support from states.
 
 The Rs 11,500-crore Punjab National Bank scam came handy for Banerjee to substantiate her claim that the Modi government was not only slashing social sector allocations, but also taking away hard-earned bank deposits of the common man. “Punjab National Bank, Bank of Baroda, Canara Bank… the list is unfolding. All these banks have given your deposits to a few businessmen. We want to know how they could do that. Who all gave them protection?” she asked.
 
 Banerjee also seized the opportunity to link the Aadhar controversy with bank fraud. “First, they made Aadhaar mandatory for maintaining bank accounts. Later, they used the data to loot public money,” she said.
 
 The chief minister dished out a list of projects and schemes for the people of  , though she was not happy with the pace of work. “We have taken up work for the second campus of Aligarh Muslim University that had come to a halt earlier. This apart, work is on for setting up two mega power plants — 500 MW and 650 MW — at Sagardighi with an estimated investment of Rs 7,000 crore,” the CM said. 
 
 Taking stock of the district administration and ongoing projects, the CM wanted strong steps against woman and child trafficking. “There has been enough politics in this district. But no one has bothered to take people on board,” Banerjee said, taking a tacit dig at Congress MP Adhir Chowdhury. She then lauded the people of Murshidabad for maintaining amity and peace.
 
 
