MUMBAI: In a relief to  , the   has stayed two Bombay high court orders to appoint a nodal officer and a committee to oversee road maintenance which, the civic body had complained, was causing “constant interference’’ in its functioning.

 A bench of CJI Dipak   and Justices D Y Chandrachud and A M Khanwilkar on March 19 also issued a notice to the HC and others on the BMC’s plea challenging the orders. The HC had in 2013 converted a letter by Justice Gautam Patel on “pathetic conditions” of roads in Mumbai into a suo motu PIL.
 
 ince then, it has passed several interim orders, including two last year whose validity the BMC has questioned.
 
 In its special leave petition, the BMC said the “court cannot take with itself the task of running the affairs of civic body” and that the appointment of a nodal officer and a committee “resulted in an obstruction in the smooth functioning of the corporation and will further delay the decision making process causing inconvenience to public at large”.
 
 Last August, a bench headed by the then Chief Justice   appointed the   (MSLSA) as a nodal officer to register pothole related complaints and then in last November another bench also headed by her formed a two member committee of HC judges to direct the nodal officer and BMC on looking into repair and maintenance of roads. The bench had said it’s the BMC’s duty to collect information (on condition of roads) and rectify them, but “if the said duty is not discharged, then the court has to interfere and compel the authorities to discharge their responsibility/duty”.
 
 The BMC’s petition says maintenance of roads is its statutory duty. “Court cannot appoint nodal officers or a committee constituting judges to monitor and run the affairs of road management,’’ it said. It also said that the BMC has its own mechanism and hierarchy to deal with the problem of roads and its maintenance as provided in the statute, which the courts cannot “substitute.’’
 
 The BMC said the HC orders have raised various ‘question of law’, including whether it should be subject to orders of such committee and nodal officer which have “no sanctity in the eyes of law”. 
 
 To bolster its case, the BMC cited a 1992   judgement which held that “court cannot take itself the task of running the affairs of the public body”. The SLP has also made as parties, the state government, the  , central road research institute and several municipal corporations, including of Thane and Navi Mumbai.
 
 Justice Patel, in his letter to the HC Chief Justice on July 24, 2013, had said the pathetic conditions of roads not only resulted in hardship to people but also casualties. The consequent, suo motu PIL has as parties, the Centre, state and various other municipal bodies. There are hundreds of respondents in the PIL which is being heard by the high court.
 
 In the latest order in January 2018, days before BMC moved the SC, a bench of Justices Abhay Oka and PN Deshmukh said the recommendations made by the court appointed committee may be considered as suggestions after advocate Jamshed Mistry, amicus curea in the matter, cited a Supreme Court which said that court cannot outsource its powers under the Constitution.
 
 The HC had also reiterated, “It is the legal obligation of the state to ensure that all roads are maintained in a reasonable condition free from potholes. In fact this court has already held that under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, the citizens have a right to ensure that the roads are maintained in a reasonable condition.’’
 
 The Supreme Court is expected to hear the matter after four weeks.
 
 
