Vadodara: Polls   threw up a mixed bag for the Congress and   even as other smaller parties made inroads in some municipalities. Congress made some gains wresting three municipalities in the region from the BJP in six districts in the region.

 Karjan municipality was the only municipality in Vadodara district that went for polls. BJP won on the municipality seats getting 18 of the 28. Congress won only one seat due to rebellion that had led to party men contesting from the Rashtriya Samaj Paksha that won on eight seats. One seat went to an independent.
 
 The municipality had faced a phase of uncertainty over the last five years due to a fractured mandate leading to BJP and Congress getting involved in a power struggle to establish majority with the support of five independents who changed loyalties more than one time. In 2013, the BJP had won nine of the 27 seats while the Congress won 13.
 
 Congress has made gains in the civic body elections of five civic bodies of Anand district. While BJP has maintained its hold over the Vallabh Vidyanagar and Karamsad, Congress has snatched Ode civic body which was with the BJP and Boriyavi civic body where NCP was in power. At Anklav, independents backed by the Congress have won the polls. Of the 24 seats of Vallabh Vidyanagar, BJP emerged as clear winner by winning at all the seats. At Karamsad, BJP won 20 seats while Congress which earlier had four seats gained four more. Interestingly, a Congress candidate Nirav Solanki won by a margin of just two votes after he requested for recounting of votes. At Boriyavi, where NCP was in power, Congress won 12 seats, BJP two seats while six other independents got elected. Election for one ward is pending due to death of a Congress candidate. 
 
 At Ode civic body where BJP was in power, Congress won 16 seats while BJP bagged eight. At Anklav civic body, 23 independents including four BJP rebels won the elections while BJP won on one seat. 
 
 In Panchmahal district, the BJP retained the Halol municipality where it son on 14 out of the 24 seats. The Congress and independents got five apiece. The BJP is also likely to establish majority in the Kalol municipality where it won even seats and independents got 17 out of the 28 seats.
 
 In Mahisagar district, the Lunawada and Balasinor municipal polls threw up a fractured mandate. In Lunawada, Congress won on 14 of the 28 seats, BJP got 11 and the NCP bagged one seat while two seats went to independent candidates. The municipal polls in 2013 in Lunawada were won by the Congress.
 
 The polls for the Balasinor civic body’s 28 seats saw BJP reach only the half way mark with 14 seats even as Congress got nine. The Samajwadi Party won on four seats here while the NCP won one.
 
 The Santrampur municipal polls in Mahisagar district saw BJP retain its hold. The saffron party won on 14 of the 24 seats while Congress and independents got five seats each.
 
 
