CHANDIGARH: The   will have to recognise the medical opinion of prestigious civilian institutions while recruiting soldiers. This was ordered by a division bench of the Punjab and   high court while dismissing an appeal by central government, challenging a single judge order in December last year.

 
 The single bench judge had directed the Army to consider the candidature of  , a resident of   in Punjab, for the post of soldier (general duty) after getting his eyes examined by doctors at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh.
 
 The central government challenged the order before a division bench of acting Chief Justice A K   and Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa, stating only Army doctors understand the needs of the defence forces, but the plea was rejected.
 
 Jaswinder had participated in the army’s selection process in 2012 but his candidature was rejected because of “corneal opacity left” or defective vision.   challenged the decision in the high court and the single bench judge ordered the PGIMER test.
 
 In its report, PGIMER’s Advanced Eye Centre declared Jaswinder fit. The medical report read, “Jaswinder Singh was examined on January 21, 2015. His unaided visual acuity is 6/6 in both eyes. Right eye anterior segment is within normal limits and left eye anterior segment examination shows superficial stromal small pin head size corneal opacities. These opacities are visually insignificant. In our opinion, Jaswinder Singh is medically fit as regards his vision."
 
 On the basis of the report, the single bench of the court ordered the Army to recruit Jaswinder.
 
 In its appeal, the central government argued that in matters of recruitment to the armed forces, the opinion of a civilian medical practitioner was invalid as standards followed by the defence forces were different. This was because Army personnel served in different types of weather conditions and terrain, the government stated.
 
 Dismissing the government’s plea, the division bench stated, “We find no basis whatsoever to discard the medical examination report furnished by a medical board of doctors of a prestigious and reputed Medical Institution – PGIMER, Chandigarh. The opinion recorded in such reports has to be given due weightage and recognition.”
 
 
