THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The new set of amendments introduced by the LSG department to the   municipality   (KMBR) and Kerala panchayat building rules (KPBR) have steeply escalated the   (FAR) and   for commercial and industrial constructions. With a uniform   (the ratio of total amount of usable floor area that a building has to the total area of the plot on which the building stands) of four, Kerala offers one of the highest FARs across the country.

 With the amendments, the LDF government has, in a way, completed what the previous UDF government had introduced amid huge criticism in 2013.
 
 As per the new amendments, FAR for four types of occupancies namely medical/hospital, office/business, small industrial and storage has been escalated to four. While the previous government had raised the FAR for almost all types of occupancies, the LDF has not brought it down with the amendments.
 
 Most importantly, FAR which was increased to four in 2013 for residential occupancy, including flats and apartments, and special residential comprising hotels has been left untouched. In effect, Kerala now offers probably the highest FAR for six types of occupancies through two sets of amendments brought by UDF government in 2013 and now, by the present LDF government.
 
 The steady rise in FAR and coverage has also spoiled chances of selective FAR and even the relevance of master plan. “With the government assuring uniform FAR in all areas, what is the relevance of development control regulations? It also belittles the importance of master plan or development schemes which prescribes higher FAR in selected areas,” said Jacob Easow, former chief town planner and chairman of the Kerala regional chapter of the Institute of Town Planners, India.
 
 While in most cities, including Mumbai, Bengaluru and Delhi, the development authorities mandate permissible floor area depending upon type of projects. In most cases, the permissible FAR ranges between 1.5 and 2.5. The state government, which has introduced the amendment on the pretext of ease of doing business, has also spoiled the state’s chances of utilizing TDR (transferable development right) projects.
 
 “If the person is willing to hand over the land, the government offers a certificate of TDR. Once TDR is received a party who is authorized to construct 100 sqm building on a plot area can have an extra construction for the same FAR. Naturally, TDR becomes as valuable as cash. However in Kerala, such an offer will not evince interest because a party can build up to an FAR of 4 and the person will not need TDR for that. If FAR is kept to minimum, the government can offer viable plans to acquire land so that infrastructure projects could be undertaken,” an official said.
 
 In terms of coverage, for occupancies categorised as hazardous, the coverage has been increased from 30 and 25 to 45 and 40, respectively. Except for education, residential and special residential occupancies, the coverage has been increased in nine other occupancies, the highest being 80 for storage-type constructions.
 
 “Such unscientific rise in coverage would lead to lack of open spaces. Besides, high FAR and coverage will cause the land prices to soar and lower middle income groups reliant on service sector would be marginalized,” a town planning expert points out.
 
 
