A father trains his three daughters, determined to make them win the country medals on the world platform. Two of them have already won medals at the Common Wealth and Asian Championships, and are retired, while the third daughter is on a speedier track, winning accolades right from a tender age. No, this is not the story of Geeta Bhogat or the Bollywood film Dangal, but that of Malayali girl Amritya M S and her father  , who coached her in powerlifting.

 A few days ago, 18-year old Amritya, from Mananthavady, Wayanad, created a national record in deadlift at the Junior   in Coimbatore, in the 43 kg weight category. She lifted a whopping 115 kg, quashing the existing record by a margin of 8.5 kg. And what’s more, she did it right in her first year in the category. “The year 2017 was a great one for me. I won the first place at the Asian trials that was held in Delhi in September, a third place in the Asian Classic Powerlifting Championship held in Alappuzha, a State record in the junior state powerlifting championship in Kollam and also won the Strong Woman of South India title. It’s great that 2018 also started on a positive note, with a national record at the Junior National Powerlifting Championship,” says Amritya, who was also the National champion in the sub junior category last year.
 
  A proud Salvaraj, himself a State Champion in powerlifting and weightlifting, says, “I was also Mr Kerala in the year 1985. It’s great that all my girls pursued the sport.” Salvaraj recently retired from Calicut Medical College as a physical education professor. His elder daughter Aiswarya M S had won a Common Wealth gold in powerlifting in 2009 while her sister Akshaya M S was the Asian Champion in 2012. Both of them, now doctors, had to take long breaks for their studies and could not return to the sport. “I see a bigger potential in Amritya, and hope she continues to straddle sports and education,” says Salvaraj. Amritya’s mom Indra C R is also a state referee in powerlifting. “She also supports me immensely and accompanies me in international competitions,” says Amritya, a first year LLB student at Calicut Law College.
 
 The lifter has won many national and international laurels ever since her debut at the age of 14, including a gold (in junior category) and bronze (in senior category) at the Subrata Classic International Championship in 2014. But her dream is to win the country a medal in the World Championship. “I will be in the junior category till the age of 23 and I hope that within the next five years, I win India a medal on the world platform,” she says.
 
  Being a non-Olympic event, there is hardly any support from the authorities for powerlifting but Amritya has not let it affect her dreams. “Expenses are high for a powerlifter, from the gear to the tournament fees. But I have the support of my family. Who knows, if the sport gets included in Olympics, it would be a great opportunity for me, if I can represent the country at the games, “says the youngster, who also dreams to be in the Indian Police Service. 
  
 
