JAIPUR: Rajasthan High Court has allowed the parents of Vidyashram School seeking a stay on the fee hike by the school at its branch K M Munshi Marg to pay the old fees of the previous year.

 However, the court said this is applicable only to the petitioners. The single bench of Justice Indrajeet Singh issued the order on a petition by Piyush Jain.
 
 He sighted the court order issued earlier which stayed the fee hike of its another branch at Pratap Nagar.
 
 The court said, the respondent is at liberty to file vacation and modification of the order after filing reply. 
 
 In the meanwhile, in the petition filed by the Vidhya Bhawan Society the court allowed the school management to modify the petition. The application by the school management said since the circumstances have been changed after filing the petition, it be allowed to modify the petition which the court allowed. After the petition which challenged the School Fees (Regulation) Act the state government had cancelled the   for the school for affiliation with the CBSC for violation of the Act.
 
 The court also allowed some parents application to join a party to the petition.
 
 Wakf Board
 
 High court dismissed an appeal petition by Abubekar Naqvi, former chairman of the board challenging the quashing of his appointment to the post in December last year. The single bench of the court had quashed the notification of March 3, 2016 nominating three members to the   including its president   on the violation of conditions of nomination.
 
 Assistant Prof recruitment
 
 Jaipur: High court while issuing notice to the   over the recruitment of Assistant professors allowed the petitioner to provisionally attend the interview.
 
 The single bench of justice VS Siradhana issued notice on a petition by one Nandlal and others who alleged that the university had canceled 23% of the questions after the exam. He said 41 questions out of 180 were deleted which had affected his chances and be allowed to participate in the interview.
 
 
