CHENNAI:A gang of at least five men, impersonating   sleuths, hijacked a cab at gunpoint and robbed five businessmen, including a Sri Lankan national, of 16 lakh as they were heading to the city airport on GST Road in Alandur early on Sunday.

 Members of the gang that pulled off the daring robbery, which highlighted the emergence of gun crime in Chennai, were equipped with handcuffs and fake   identity cards, said an investigating officer with the St Thomas Mount police.
 
 The robbery appeared to be an inside job, he said, because four of the businessmen were not from the city; they were passing through on their way to Sri Lanka, on a business trip and had stayed in a hotel in  , a link the police are probing.
 
 “The complainants — Abdul Aziz, 45, of Washermenpet, Sukkur, 32, of Puducherry, Mohammed Sayed, 30, Prakash, 35 of Ramanathapuram and Sri Lankan national Nayanar Mohamed, 45 — had to take a 3.20am flight to Colombo,” the officer said.
 
 “The robbers stopped them on GST Road,” he said. “They said they were NCB officers and had received information about drug smuggling.” Robbers blindfolded businessmen, made them get out of car in different spots on stretch: Cops
 
 They made the businessmen alight from the vehicle, which they pretended to check, claiming that they believed that it was carrying a consignment of narcotics.
 
 One of the robbers suddenly pulled out a gun and soon had the businessmen back in the car, cowering at gunpoint. The robbers blindfolded them and gave the cabbie orders about where they wanted him to drive.
 
 “They drove around the city and, after taking their cellphones, let them off one by one in various deserted spots between Tambaram and Chengalpet, with no way to immediately raise an alarm,” the officer said, adding that the robbers appeared to be professionals.
 
 They made Abdul Aziz get off at Tambaram, Sukkur at Vandalur, Mohamed Syed at Potheri, Prakash at Guduvancherry and Nayanar Mohammed at Chengalpet. Abdul Aziz managed to alert police control room. On a complaint by the businessmen, police launched a search for the gang.
 
 “We have obtained detailed descriptions of the robbers from the businessmen, who are lungi traders,” theofficer said. “We are yettodetermine if the gun they used was original. We have obtained reams of surveillance footage from security cameras in the vicinity of the crime scene and hope to obtain clues about the culprits soon,” he said.
 
 
