HYDERABAD: After a brief spell of pre-monsoon showers, Thursday turned out to be a hot and   for Hyderabad with mercury levels soaring past the 40 degree Celsius mark for the first time this year. The humidity level too stood at a relatively high 50 per cent.

 According to weathermen, the situation is only likely to get worse with the temperature expected to touch 43 degree Celsius in the latter part of April. This, despite the beginning of the month recording lower temperatures in comparison to other years, they said. 
  
 The maximum day-time temperature recorded on Thursday was 41.6 degree Celsius from Sardarmahal near Charminar. Other parts of Hyderabad, such as Madhapur and  , were equally hot with temperatures over 40 degree Celsius.
 
 “Commercial activities, traffic and   lead to rise in temperature. Since Madhapur is a concrete jungle, the temperature is higher in that area. Areas such as Golconda, where there is more greenery and lesser commercial activity, the temperature is 1.5 degree Celsius less,” said Y V  , consultant meteorologist, Telangana State Development Planning Society (TSDPS).
 
 Experts said that the normal maximum temperature for Hyderabad during April is 38 degree Celsius — three degrees lower than what was recorded on Thursday.
 
 The situation was much the same in the surrounding districts of Hyderabad too, with Ranga Reddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Sangareddy and   recording 41.6 degree Celsius, 42 degree Celsius, 41.5 degree Celsius and 40.8 degree Celsius respectively.
 
 But even as experts confirmed a further rise in mercury levels across the state, officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad did not rule out the possibility of thunderstorm activity. Pointing to the probability of an upper air cyclonic circulation over   and Odisha, experts said that these movements could cause gusty winds and thunderstorm in isolated places across Telangana.
 
 “Telangana will continue to witness hot weather conditions as day temperatures continues to cross the 40-degree mark. April is one of the drier months for the state and we do not expect any significant   apart from isolated thunderstorm,” read a report by Skymet — a private weather forecasting agency.
 
