NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind   and other   have   health minister Satyendar Jain whose house was   by a   on Wednesday over alleged violations of norms in hiring a creative team for PWD projects. The party has said that the raids are being used as a weapon to   and   AAP.

 Soon after the searches were launched, deputy CM Manish Sisodia described the move as a reaction to the profit-capping policy on private hospitals proposed by the AAP government. Later, through the day, party functionaries held back-to-back press conferences to reiterate virtually the same stand. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal summed it up in a tweet which said the searches were a reaction from the Narendra Modi government to his government's proposal for reining in private hospitals.
 
 “Yesterday, Satyendra Jain announced a policy to cap profiteering by private hospitals and today the Modi government conducted a CBI raid. The BJP wants to get this policy dismissed. This is a revolutionary policy which will benefit people in a big way. We are not afraid of the CBI. Even if more raids are conducted, the policy will continue to be enforced,” Kejriwal said on Twitter.
 
 Since AAP came to power, CBI has conducted many raids on key AAP government functionaries, including one at the office of Kejriwal. AAP maintains that so far the CBI has failed to find anything against anyone. “The health minister is planning to check loot by private hospitals. As soon as the Delhi government tries to bring a change in any of the lobbies of the central government, the corrupt panic and hit back at AAP through false cases,” said deputy CM Manish Sisodia.
 
 “AAP's only offence is that it is working for the public and BJP is bothered by this. The BJP government neither does any work, nor allows AAP to work,” Sisodia said. Sisodia defended the hiring of the creative team, saying that “a team of Niti Aayog has praised the efforts of the team.”
 
 At another press conference, AAP functionary Ashish Khetan said a distinct pattern has emerged — whenever the AAP government does “good work”, CBI, ACB and Delhi Police register cases against their ministers and MLAs. “AAP MLAs have been acquitted by courts in all cases registered against them,” he claimed. At another press conference, Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said: “CBI is working like a caged parrot.”
 
 
