PANAJI: Even a fortnight after making its entry into the market, mangoes are still retailing at an all-time high. This season, the flowering stage was first affected by variation in temperature, followed by attacks by pests, thus leading to a poor fruit crop which is in turn driving up rates, experts say.

 
 
  
 
 “Early on in the season, the mango crop suffered due to variation in temperature. The prolonged cold temperatures in winter affected the flowering process. This has led to a poor mango yield,” said Dr E Charkurkar from ICAR- Central Coastal Agricultural Research Institute, Old Goa.
 
 The crop has also been affected by an attack of pests.   director   said, “Misty days promote the activity of mango hoppers. These are pests which create an obstacle for mangoes in reaching full fruition. To add to this, the alternate bearing phenomenon in fruit crops (high and low yields occurring in alternate years) has also affected the yield. This year is supposed to be the low bearing year for mangoes.” 
 
 The poor yield of the fruit has resulted in short supply of the fruit and consequently driven up prices and slowed down the mango business in local markets. 
 
 Some varieties like the local favourite, the mancurad, is currently retailing at a massive Rs 2000 per dozen.
 
 “Prices haven’t fluctuated much since the arrival of the fruit, two weeks ago as there is less supply while demand continues to remain high,” said Panaji-based vendor Musharraf Bepari.
 
 TOI had earlier reported that many buyers are still hesitant to buy the fruit owing to exorbitant rates.
 
 “These rates will continue for some time. However, we expect the month-end harvest to bring some relief. Once that stock of mangoes hits the market, rates will automatically come down,” said Nisar Nandihaldi, another vendor from Panaji.
 
 Besides the mancurad variety, which is a product of the homeland, the current mango supply in the market is sourced from Ratnagiri, Devgarh and parts of Belagavi. 
 
 A range of varieties like the Dussehri, Langda and Chausa are expected to hit the market later as are the other Goan varieties like Xavier and Hilario.
 
 
