Vijayawada: It’s that time of the year again when people try to convey feelings for their loved ones in all possible ways. On Valentine’s Day, which fell on Wednesday, the morning began with people greeting each other over phone, and messages with pictures of beautiful things, such as roses and chocolates.

 This year the city parks more or less wore a deserted look as youths seemed to give the usual hangouts a miss. College students celebrated the day with programmes in their colleges. Many tried to capture the attention of their loved ones with posts, and city’s gifts shops made the best use of social media to market their products. 
 
 Right from cakes to sarees, mugs, pillows with heart symbols and teddy bears, everything that could be presented as Valentine’s Day gifts were displayed in the posts. Some were weird, but most were funny. Gifts were also offered in combos — cake, flowers, and sweets, with the teddy bear coming free. Personalised mugs, pillows and photo frames were in high demand. Age was no bar. Many senior citizens were seen participating in the celebrations with the enthusiasm of a kid.
 
 Meanwhile, Valentine’s Day celebrations in Hyderabad turned ugly, after a gang of protesters affiliated to the Bajrang Dal rampaged through a mall in Kukatpally, and stormed hotels and eateries in the city forcing managements to roll back V-Day offers. The agitators burnt effigies at Abids crossroads and Dilsukhnagar to condemn the occasion, and maintained strict vigil outside parks. 
 
 At the Manjeera Mall (Kukaptally), Bajrang Dal members were seen pulling down decorations and raising anti-Valentine Day slogans, forcing the local police to intervene to bring the situation under control. A similar mob gathered at The Park Hotel in Somajiguda, later in the evening, demanding that the management shelved its special February 14 programmes. 
 
 “We backed out from there only after the hotel management and the police promised that all Valentine Day offers will be scrapped,” said S Kailsah, convener of the Bajrang Dal’s local chapter. Sources at the hotel, while confirming the incident, maintained that the mob was cleared out within five minutes, with aid from the cops.
 
 
