NAGPUR: A gangster, who was involved in a sensational   case before joining Ippa gang, was allowed to walk out of crime branch chowky at Lakdapool last week after a superior officer is learnt to have intervened on his behalf.

 The gangster, named in the FIR registered at Pachpaoli   station on December 26 last year for attacking crime branch officials and also damaging a vehicle, was picked up from his home in east Nagpur. The crime branch squad had brought him to the chowky for recording statement when the ‘superior’ in question is learnt to have instructed his colleagues to free him. 
 
 The crime branch   had to let him go just when they were about to begin interrogating him regarding dreaded gangster Ippa and his gang who had   a rival on December 25 last year at Mominpura followed by attack on the squad of API DM Bhedodkar near Motibagh railway colony in the early hours of the following day. Two offences were registered against Ippa and his gang.
 
 Pachpaoli police had arrested Pawan Moryani and another in connection with the case of attack on the cops. Moryani was later transferred in a case of   police station but was promptly sent to jail as cops showed liltle interest in interrogating him for reasons best known to them. 
 
 Unconfirmed sources claimed a cop from Tehsil police station had brought a person, close to Ippa gang, to Civil Lines to meet the superior officer. A go-slow strategy had been adopted following the meeting. It is learnt city police chief K Venkatesham had taken up the issue of arrest of Ippa gang with Zonal DCP Rahul Maknikar but the same was not discussed in the weekly crime review. 
 
 CP Venkatesham, when contacted by TOI regarding the gangster being given the long rope, said he had been following a strategy where no one is made an accused just because of past record. Clear complicity has to be established. “In the last one year, we had made none a party to the crime unless there is a clear proof with us of his or her having being a part of it. In case we have some evidence he can be brought back,” said the CP. 
 
 While CP stated there was no policy to implicate anyone innocent, it was not clear as to why the gangster’s name was included in FIR registered at Pachpaoli police station. Also, it is not clear why crime branch did not hand over the gangster to Pachpaoli police when they have an offence registered against him which is a common practice of city police. 
 
 A senior crime branch official said one of the objective of his unit was to keep a tab on the gangster for which the person was rounded up. “The gangster was not present when Ippa gang had targeted the police and vehicle and for this reason we did not arrested him,” he said.
 
 
