Vadodara: The building with Italian ceramic tiles on its façade is not only the symbol of the Sanskarinagri but has been the symbol of justice for Barodians for 120 years. But the doors of this heritage Chimnabai Nyay Mandir were permanently closed at 6.10 pm on Saturday as the district courts will now shift to new building in Diwalipura from Monday.

 On the last working day of Nyay Mandir and the Laal Court, there were moments of joy and sadness, not only among the lawyers, who practiced there for decades, but also among the court staff, typists and stamp vendors whose lives revolved around the daily hustle and bustle of the building.
 
 On one hand while there were celebrations among the groups of advocates, there were also many who were moving their tables and other furniture out of the building. However, with no clarity over the seating arrangement, they had taken the furniture home. The scrap dealers too had a field day as the rusted tin sheds in the courtyards of the heritage building were brought down for the first time.
 
 While the young groups of advocates were busy taking selfies and photographs to capture the memories at the historic building, the senior lawyers were seen sharing their memories and giving motivational speeches to their juniors. There were also many who prayed at the place where their tables stood and also lit a ‘diya’ before the final departure with tears in their eyes. The lawyers who used to make strong arguments in the court room against each other were seen hugging and reminiscing moments of life time.
 
 Even as the new building was to be inaugurated at 6 pm, several veteran advocates missed the function to sit in the Nyay Mandir till the closing time only to cherish the final hours of the heritage structure.
 
 “I feel like a girl who is getting married and going to the husband’s house. I have seen stalwart lawyers walking in the corridors of the Nyay Mandir for justice and senior lawyers used to set the trend, but now as the number of lawyers have increased those values are not upheld,” said senior advocate Rohit Majmudar, who has practiced in the Nyay Mandir for 50 years.
 
 
