GURUGRAM: A 21-year-old man who had come to Gurugram to attend a recruitment drive by the Indian Army at Tau Devi Lal stadium fell down and was later declared dead seconds into the start of his physical examination on Thursday morning.

 Jitender Singh (21), from Delhi’s  , had received his call letter and participated in his physical examination around 7.30am on Thursday, police said. Around 100-150m into his sprint — the first part of the examination — he collapsed. “Several army support staff, who were standing alongside the track, carried him to an ambulance which was on standby, and rushed him to the  , where he was declared dead on arrival,” said SI Suresh, the additional SHO of Sadar police station.
 
 The hospital informed Sadar police station, under whose jurisdiction comes the Tau Devi Lal stadium. “We informed the boy’s family, who rushed from Delhi,” said the investigating officer of Sadar police station. A post-mortem was carried out in Gurugram on Thursday afternoon. According to the investigating officer, doctors said Singh had a blood clot in his heart, which caused the death. Samples of the viscera have been sent for further examination, to check for drug consumption. It’s report is awaited. The body was handed over to the family after post mortem, police said.
 
  The recruitment drive, which started on Thursday, is set to continue till April 20.
 
 Police said since there was no indication of foul play, the matter is being investigated under Section 174 of CrPC (standard procedure), and no complaint has been received in this regard. They also said participants who had applied for the current recruitment drive, were allotted different dates for their physical examination, in which Singh had been allotted Thursday. Singh lived in Delhi with his family and was a high school pass-out.
 
 Retired Major General Satbir Singh, who is in charge of the recruitment, said such incidents are common in recruitment drives as most “young boys” who participate don’t undergo regular practice or exercise. “What happened is unfortunate. I’ve heard of several instances where boys get exerted or stressed out and faint, but no fatalities.” 
 
 “While the training material is available online, participants don’t generally adhere to it,” he said.
 
 The website Join Army states applicants have to take part in a 1.6km-run, with descending order of marks for those who finish the race in less than 5 minutes 30 seconds, and between 5 minutes 31 seconds and 5 minutes 45 seconds. Those who exceed 5 minutes 45 seconds are disqualified. Thereafter, participants have to do push ups, balance and cross a 9ft-deep ditch.
 
 
