CHANDIGARH: Haryana finance minister captain Abhimanyu on Friday presented Rs 1.15 lakh crore budget for the financial year 2018-19, an increase of 12.6 % over the previous financial year’s budget. While no fresh taxes have been proposed, value added tax (VAT) on natural gas used by industry has been reduced to 6% from 12.5%. The tax relief would help around 350 industrial units in the state using natural gas.

 While reading out his fourth consecutive budget, Abhimanyu also announced to allocate Rs 100 crore for completion of the construction of   (SYL) canal. The minister assured that government would also be ready to spend Rs 1,000 crore, if required for the canal. Similar provision was also made in the previous budget.
 
 Some of the major announcements made in the budget include setting up of a new non-banking financial company — Haryana State Financial Services Limited — to act as an in-house treasury manager for efficient management of surplus funds of public enterprises, autonomous bodies of Haryana and other state entities. The company is expected to become operational in the first quarter of 2018-19.
 
 In order to have better management of government money by utilizing idle funds lying in banks, the government has also decided that all departments and public sector undertakings, including autonomous bodies, would be allowed to operate only one or two major bank accounts with effect from April.
 
 In his 96-minute speech, the finance minister also talked about the proposal of expanding the existing airstrips at Pinjore, Karnal, Bhiwani and Narnaul from 3,000 feet to 5,000 feet and developing space for accommodating spill over from Delhi airport for parking and other activities. It was also stated that the existing airfield in Hisar would be upgraded into regional connectivity scheme — UDAAN (Ude Desh ka aam nagrik) — within next 6-8 months.
 
 To deal with pollution concerns due to stubble burning, the minister said that renewable energy department has invited proposals from parties to setup paddy straw-based power projects of 50 MW capacity in six districts Karnal, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad, Jind, Kaithal and Ambala.
 
 While no populist or special announcement was mentioned in the budget, Abhimanyu, however, claimed that his “steeped in social welfare budget” aimed to usher in a new era of balanced growth where no one is left out of the state’s journey of all-round development and prosperity.
 
 Over Rs 32,000 crore GST collections
 
 Till February 28, 2018, the 2.35 lakh dealers who were earlier registered under VAT, central excise and service tax in Haryana, have migrated to GST. In addition 1.47 lakh new dealers have been registered in the state, increasing the total number of registered dealers in the state to 3.82 lakh. The assembly was informed that despite Haryana being a small state, GST collection from the state till February 28 had reached Rs 32,546 crore.
 
 
 
