Ludhiana: Another shooting sensation from Punjab, Arjun Singh Cheema, 16, has made the nation proud by clinching gold along with Rana and Anmol Jain in the 10m air pistol junior shooting team event at the International Shooting Sport Federation (ISSF) Junior World Cup which is being held in Sydney, Australia from March 19 to till March 29.

 Arjun Singh Cheema along with Gaurav Rana and Anmol Jain grabbed gold for the nation in the 10m air pistol junior shooting junior event by scoring 575/600 points, beating Liu, Wang, Tang of the China on the fifth day of the tournament.
 
 More than 153 shooters from 16 national Olympic committees are participating in the ongoing world cup tournament matches.
 
 Speaking over phone, Cheema said, “I felt myself lucky as I got an opportunity to represent the country in international shooting championship matches and secured three medals in different categories.”
 
 I was shivering in the beginning but kept on convincing myself to stay focused and be optimistic. This helped me a lot in turning victorious. In the past one year, I have secured three medals—two gold, one bronze—in international championship matches but never received any acknowledgement from Punjab sports department which was very disheartening”.
 
 Cheema’s father, Sandeep Singh while talking to TOI said, “Key factor behind Arjun’s success at such an early age is hard word and dedicated practice session of five to six hours on a daily basis. Shooting is a sport which requires a lot of concentration and focus. He always maintained a focus on his target and as a result of this was able to secure gold in world championship matches. We are not happy with the appeoach of the state’s sports department as they have never felicitated him.”
 
 Singh added, “I think officials don’t even know that Arjun has won gold in such a big international tournament which is very heartbreaking as these things demotivates a sportsperson, especially when he or she is a youngster,” father added to us.
 
 
