NEW DELHI: Much of the commentary in state-backed Chinese media today and over the last couple of days has been unusually positive about the upcoming Narendra Modi-Xi Jinping meet touting it as a landmark occasion with the same potential as the Rajiv Gandhi-Deng Xiaoping meeting of 1988.

 
  
  
 China Daily said the meeting of the two countries' premiers is "a major chance to lift China-India ties", which it called "one of the most consequential for the 21st century." Another Chinese publication, Global Times, said the two-day occasion "heralds (a) new chapter in China-Indian relations." And in an op-ed a couple of days ago, it said the Xi-Modi meeting "will show (the) diplomatic wisdom" of Beijing and New Delhi.
 
 "The meeting can be as significant as the one in 1988 when Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping and then Indian prime minister   met, and will set the course for bilateral ties," added the op-ed in Global Times, a usually ultra-hawkish publication on foreign affairs, which is run by the Communist Party of China's People's Daily.
 
  
  
 In 1988, Rajiv became the first Indian PM to visit China since 1954; his visit, like Modi's now post-Doklam, came immediately after a period of prolonged border skirmishes. That visit, as Global Times said, "normalized Sino-Indian relations" after which the two nations "maintained 30 years of stable development".
 
 Chinese media is expecting a similar scenario after Modi's visit during which he will meet with China's Xi several times in Wuhan. And as China Daily said, "the world will be watching", because with the rise of increased economic and trade protectionism and strident inward-looking nationalism in the West, the two giant nations of India and China can show the rest of the world the way.
 
 "Asian powers and emerging countries, both China and India share many common interests in international affairs. They both have to strive for the right to develop and face Western pressure on issues like trade and intellectual property rights. There is large room for economic cooperation," said Global Times.
 
 
 
 China and India both also share a common interest in a range of global issues, added Chinese media.
 
 "Both strongly support globalization and multilateralism, and advocate increasing developing countries' voice in global governance" wrote China Daily.
 
 State-backed Chinese media acknowledged that there will be niggles and they didn't shy away from presenting Beijing and New Delhi with prescriptions to deal with them.
 
 Long Xingchun, an influential academic and director of the Center for Indian Studies at China West Normal University said in Global Times that China should let India know it doesn't see it as an opponent.
 
 "The purpose of cooperation between China and South Asian countries is not to besiege India. China encourages India and Pakistan to resolve the Kashmir conflict in a peaceful way. China should convince India that the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor is economic cooperation and does not influence China's neutrality," wrote Long.
 
 Similarly, China Daily said a section in India tends to see the development of China and India in zero-sum terms, which it shouldn't.
 
 "China is the biggest trading partner of India, and India the largest project contracting market for Chinese companies in South Asia. India's competitive edge in information technology, software and medicines, and China's strengths in manufacturing, infrastructure development and emerging industries make the two sides natural partners with great potential for closer economic cooperation," said China Daily.
 
 Both publications said China will be watching India's role in the "Indo-Pacific" strategy initiated by the US, as well as India's attitude to Tibetan separatism.
 
 "...India should never use Tibet as a bargaining chip. India should let China believe that it will never take part in an Asian version of NATO or the Indo-Pacific strategy aimed at opposing China," said the scholar Long in Global Times.
 
 
