LUDHIANA: Even before attacking the girl with acid on the night intervening Monday and Tuesday, the 19-year-old Manoj on several occasions had threatened her of acid attack if she refused his proposal.

 According to the preliminary inquiry, the police have discovered that the accused had stolen the acid from a house where he worked as a carpenter about six months ago.
 
 According to victim’s mother, Manoj was threatening the girl to attack her with acid if she would not marry him for the past six months. She also alleged that in their absence, the accused would often visit their house and threaten the girl.
 
 “As my elder daughter was married to his brother, we could not approach the police to lodge a complaint against Manoj. We were scared that they would torture my elder daughter. But, I asked Manoj’s mother to control him, but she too did not listen to me,” shared her mother.
 
 She said, “Now I am worried about my daughter’s future. She has suffered burns on her face, neck, chest, stomach, arms. She can’t eat anything and is on a liquid diet.”
 
 Assistant commissioner of police (West)   said, “On questioning, the accused told that he had stolen the acid from a house where he had worked six months back. He was stored the acid in a bottle.”
 
 Importantly, the Ludhiana police had already imposed a ban on open sale of acid. Further the police have also directed the sellers to maintain a register of buyers.
 
 Previous attacks
 
 Sept 23, 2017 | Police recovered an unidentified body of a woman near Pritam Colony of Giaspura village. The woman was first murdered and later acid was thrown on her face to hide her identify.
 
 March 3, 2017 | Ravi Kumar of Tajpur road was arrested for throwing acid on his wife   for dowry
 
 Dec 7, 2013 | 22-year-old Harpreet Kaur was seriously injured after Parminder Singh of   in Patiala threw a mug full of acid on her at a beauty salon in Sarabha Nagar on her marriage day. The victim had later died on December 27 at a hospital in Maharashtra.
 
 Feb 16, 2015 | A migrant labourer sprinkled acid on another worker after a fight over some petty issue at   on Tibba road here
 
 July 31, 2014 | Four unidentified miscreants bathed Sita Ram, 30-year-old electrician, in acid in front of his 7-year-old son at   colony on Chandigarh road
 
 March 31, 2014 | 18-year-old girl of   in Khanna suffered multiple burns after three youngsters allegedly poured acid on her
 
 April 2, 2014 | A youngster threw acid on a Class X girl who was returning home after her examination at Raikot
 
 
