CHENNAI: Melur in Madurai is gearing for the second big event in less than seven months by  , who is set to launch his party and flag. With all roads leading to the town and lined with flags in red, white and black, the dissident leader is all set to flex his muscles in the Thevar-dominated southern district. 

 The camp is buoyed by the Delhi high court order that allowed Dhinakaran's plea for a common symbol, preferably pressure cooker, and a suitable name of his choice for the faction led by him. Agitated over this, the AIADMK on Wednesday moved the   with a special leave petition to set aside the order of the Delhi court directing the   to do the needful within three weeks after giving Dhinakaran a hearing. The Delhi court order came on an interim application filed by Dhinakaran challenging the Election Commission's November 23 order that allotted the two leaves symbol to chief minister   and deputy CM O Panneerselvam.
 
 It remains unclear to TTV supporters if the leader would go with one of the three names of his party, mentioned before the Delhi court. "There are many applicants from the ruling camp, who moved the Election Commission seeking those names," said a leader and close Dhinakaran associate. The list of three names Dhinakaran sought include All India Anna Dravidar Munnetra Kazhagam, MGR Amma Dravidar Munnetra Kazhagam and MGR Amma Dravidar Kazhagam. Naturally, the ruling AIADMK is opposed to any name that sounds similar, sources said.
 
 Disqualified MLA   said all MLAs who supported Dhinakaran would participate in the Melur meet. "We want to contest elections with a common symbol. It is only a temporary arrangement, as we are sure of winning the two leaves case," Tamilselvan said. Palaniswami and Panneerselvam on Tuesday sought to assert their leadership in the party, reiterating in Madras high court on a civil petition that all duties that were performed by former chief minister J Jayalalithaa as general secretary would henceforth be performed by them as coordinator and joint coordinator. 
 
 
