PUNE: Two cases from the city were resolved in the first Maharashtra   ( ) conciliation forum meeting on Saturday.

 Six cases were referred to the Pune conciliation forum. Of them, two were heard in detail and amicably resolved, stated the forum members from Confederation of Real Estate Development Association of India (Credai) and Mumbai Grahak Panchayat (MGP).
 
 A total of 10 cases were heard in Mumbai in the first conciliation forum meeting. Four of them were settled, said MGP chairman Shirish Deshpande.
 
 Cut to Pune. Besides the two resolved cases, the other cases were also heard by the forum. According to the conciliators, they are likely to be cleared in two weeks.
 
 The Pune conciliation forum comprises four benches. Members Amar Manjrekar from (Credai) and Sanjeev Kulkarni (MGP-Pune division) are in the first bench; I. P. Inamdar (Credai) and Keshav Barve (MGP-Pune division) form the second bench; Manish Jain (Credai) and Tanuja Rahane (MGP-Pune division) are in the third bench and the fourth bench comprises Anil Pharande (Credai) and   (MGP-Pune Division).
 
 MGP chairman Deshpande, the brain behind the conciliation forum, said, “The first conciliation forum hearing was a positive one and it showed a ray of hope to the consumers.”
 
 The conciliation forum members feel that the forum would be looked upon with great optimism. Reasons: both parties agree upon terms and conditions, and there is an immediate finality to the issue.
 
 According to the Section 32 (g) of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, the MahaRERA Conciliation and Dispute Resolution Forum was established to resolve disputes amicably, thereby saving parties’ money and time on litigation. The fee for this process is Rs1,000. It has to be paid by the applicant only after consent from the other party.
 
 A total of 77 requests have been registered with the MahaRERA Conciliation Forum. Of them, a total of 16 cases were heard in Pune and Mumbai on Saturday. The remaining requests are in the process of consent from the other party.
 
 MahaRERA secretary Vasant Prabhu is expected to commence the Nagpur forum this week with two to three benches with the help of Credai, Nagpur, and the   there. 
 
 
