COIMBATORE: Residents and environmental activists raised objections and stopped the   (NHAI) from chopping down decades-old trees along   railway station road on Friday.

 Activists said of the 20 trees that were along the road for decades, NHAI had approached the revenue department stating that 14 are obstructing traffic flow. They subsequently managed to get the permission to chop off the trees.
 
 “NHAI had already cut two trees while the extension work was being carried out. Now the widening work has been completed. Why would the officials want to cut the trees after the extension work was completed?’’ questioned   from Osai, an environmental organisation, who along with residents had prevented the officials from cutting the trees.
 
 Due to the increase in vehicle flow in the road to Ettimadai railway station and a private educational institution, NHAI had widened the road to make from a single lane to double lane. The work started five months ago and the NHAI completed widening three days back.
 
 The permission to chop the trees was obtained from the district revenue department and the trees were auctioned. Subsequently in early March NHAI had granted permission to a bidder who won the auction to chop off the trees that were considered as an obstruction for road extension.
 
 But when the trees did not pose any hurdle for widening of the road, activists questioned the rationale behind chopping them off after the widening was done.
 
 “The traffic flow in the road was very less. Most of the commuters of the road were students. Absolutely, there was no need for the officials to remove the trees,’’ Syed said. “Hundreds of trees in the highway have been chopped off in the last two years in various stretches in Coimbatore. Such indiscriminate chopping would have a long lasting adverse effect on the environment,’’ he said.
 
 As the department has directed the officials to ensure that the tree removal activities do not damage the newly laid road and not cause problem to the residents and commuters, a public holiday was chosen. But residents informed the activists who rushed to the place and objected to the cutting.
 
 When contacted, NHAI officials said that they had decided only to cut five trees, even though they had obtained permission to cut 14 trees.
 
 These five trees are on the border of the roads and the chances of causing accidents are high, the officials said, adding that they had postponed the removal work in order to prevent ruckus while the project was on.
 
 “After the residents and NGOs objected, we had kept it on hold. After discussions, decision would be taken on the matter,” the official said.
 
 
