VIJAYAWADA:   president   jumped into the Andhra Pradesh Special Category Status row on Tuesday. "It's the first thing we will do after coming to power in 2019," he told party workers protesting at Jantar Mantar in Delhi to demand special status for the state. 

 BJP sources in Delhi appeared to be bracing for what looked like an imminent parting of ways with the ally. "We are committed to development of AP and have done everything possible to help the state government. But we cannot meet impossible demands. We cannot give special category status on the ground of backwardness because on that count it is   which should be considered first," a senior BJP functionary said.
 
 "Now, they are demanding tax concessions and we cannot make that exception for a state," another BJP functionary said, conceding that the de-escalation expected after a meeting of TDP MPs with finance minister   had not materialised. "I am confident that if we stand together, we will convince the government of India and PM   that what is due to the people of AP should be given to them," he added.
 
 Meanwhile, armed with feedback from his elected representatives on the future of the alliance,   will make a statement in the AP assembly on Wednesday, sources said. At Tuesday's meeting, Naidu told his legislators to expose the "injustice" meted out to AP by BJP, sources said.
 
 "The people of AP buried Congress for cheating them and BJP should remember it. How can BJP seek votes without doing justice to people? The Union government is making a mockery of the state, I will give more clarity on the floor of the house tomorrow," he said.
 
 Earlier in the day, while speaking in the assembly, Naidu cautioned the BJP leadership that they would face severe resistance from the people if special category status was denied. He said special status was first promised by the BJP leadership, but later they were told the tag would be withdrawn for all states soon. It was only then that he had agreed to the special package, the CM said.
 
 Meanwhile, Jaitley is said to have informed AP representatives on Monday that the Centre could only consider a special package for AP and that granting special category status was out of the question. If backwardness was the criterion, many others states, including Bihar and West Bengal, would also make the same demand and it would not be possible to give such status to many states, Jaitley told the AP delegation.
 
 
