CHENNAI : Ever wondered how many passenger trains arrive late every day in the country? Data tabled by the ministry of railways in Parliament on Friday shows that between April 2017 and February 2018, 1.48 lakh trains, or 450 trains a day, arrived late at the destination station.

 The worst performers on the punctuality benchmark are mail and express trains, with 75,880 arriving late during the period. The second worst were superfast trains, 60,856 of which were late. Close to 7,000 premium trains like Rajdhani, Shatabdi and   were also  , says the report, which does not include suburban trains.
 
 About 25% of the trains that arrived late during the December-January period were delayed by fog, particularly in northern India.
 
 As per official estimates, the railways operates around 12,600 trains everyday across its 66,000-km network.
 
 The railways levies an extra charge for superfast trains, those with an average speed of more than 55kmph. For a journey from Chennai to New Delhi, the superfast charge is Rs 30 for sleeper class, Rs 45 for AC 3tier and 2tier and Rs 75 for AC first class. 
 
 If a   is delayed and the average speed of the train decreases below 55kmph, there is no system of refunding the superfast charge levied.
 
 The data tabled in Parliament is only for trains which are delayed at the destination points and the delay can be higher for journeys to intermediate stations. 
 
 A train can be delayed by 30 minutes at an intermediate station but still be on-time at the destination as the time-table provides for a cushion. For instance, the railways gives trains 40 minutes to complete the 6 km distance between   and Chennai Central station.
 
 Railway officials say the delays are due to internal reasons like terminal capacity constraints and asset failure as well as external ones like adverse weather conditions like fog and rain, road traffic at level crossings and law and order problems.
 
 The railways have introduced measures like preventive maintenance of assets, laying more lines, automatic signalling, removal of level crossings and better co-ordination with the state police and civil authorities to improve the punctuality.
 
 
