It will be interesting to see how the Kolkata Knight Riders recover from their huge defeat to the Delhi Daredevils. Shreyas Iyer’s magnificent batting simply took the game away from Dinesh Karthik’s men and then they never got the start that could keep them in the hunt.

 
 
 
 Losing three top-order wickets to the short ball could well mean that the Royal Challengers bowlers will try the same tactic against the Kolkata Knight Riders.   loves the ball pitched up at him and he smashes it here, there and everywhere, but is all tangles when the ball is coming at his throat. Uthappa is a better player of the short ball and would want to do well in front of his native Bangalore crowd. He and Lynn will be the key as they have the striking ability to score at a great pace. Then there is Andre Russell who makes every part of the ground seem like a danger zone with his sixes. Shubman Gill played pleasingly, hitting through the line and showing fine balance doing so.
 
 
 
 He makes a case for promotion up the order but perhaps the think tank would want to see a bit more before they decide on that.
 
 The Royal Challengers have had a stop-start season so far and with the kind of batting line-up they have, no total should be beyond them. Their problem has been consistency and not quite getting a start at the top of the order. De Villiers has been hitting the ball like a sweet dream and taking everyone including the opposition’s breath away by the sheer audacity of his shots. However, it’s their death overs bowling that has been the problem for them. Giving Corey Anderson the ball for the final overs against a rampaging Dhoni was not a smart move. Anderson has just started to bowl and so will be short of confidence, especially in the slog overs, and that’s how Bangalore lost a match they should have won comfortably.
 
 Both teams will want to get back to the winning rhythm after the big losses they suffered in their previous game; both have some of the biggest impact players in the game.
 
  
  
 
