MYSURU: Although local bus service in the city is something the citizens of Mysuru pride themselves on for its efficiency and connectivity, commuters don’t express the same sentiments when it comes to their experience at bus stops.

 Unfortunately, most  , even those in the heart of the city, lack basic facilities such as adequate seats. At other bus stops, the surface of the floors is rough. However, the pressing concern at most of these shelters is the lack of lighting facilities, which jeopardises safety of the passengers.
 
 While Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) officials state that all bus shelters need to be equipped with minimum facilities such as seats and lighting, bus stops near the RTO West Office, at the junction of   and Vani Vilas Road, are in a poor condition. While another bus stop on Vani Vilas Road too doesn’t have lights, the one near Ramaswamy Circle is too close to the pavement, and there is very little space for passengers to sit. Ironically, the two model heritage stops on Purandaradasa Road near CADA office a few years ago are today in a poor condition since they were not designed scientifically. Commuters at these stops are left with no option but to stand on the road owing to the narrow pavement.
 
 Admitting that citizens faced problems at bus shelters across the city, mayor   said, “I once saw two girls waiting in the small hours of the morning, waiting at a bus stop near Maharani’s College that did not have proper lights. Records show that there are around 340 bus shelters within Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) limits, and many of them lack basic facilities. Those who were maintaining the stops discontinued it after MCC refused permission for advertisements. I will ask officers to address these issues.”
 
 Not too long ago, private players were eager to bag contracts to maintain bus shelters since MCC had agreed these spaces could be used for advertisements. This led to many shelters being built in an unscientific manner too close to the road, and obstructed pedestrians. Following MCC’s diktat barring advertisements at these shelters, many of them lay abandoned, and the civic body has failed to address the problem.
 
 KSRTC divisional controller (Urban) KH Srinivasa said, “We do not construct shelters at the stops. They are built by the civic and urban development bodies.”
 
 “Of the nearly 1,500 bus stops in Mysuru, only 15 to 20 have shelters. Nealy three lakh people use the bus service on a daily basis,” he added.
 
 
