CHENNAI: Four   ships sailed in formation with an   frigate and conducted   and crew exchange in the Indian Ocean on March 25. The US   passed by on their way from the Arabian Gulf to join the operation area of US 7th fleet.

 The Arleigh Burke-class guided-missile destroyer  , the aircraft carrier USS Theodore Roosevelt and the guided-missile destroyers USS Halsey and USS Sampson sailed in formation with the Indian Navy Talwar-class frigate INS Tarkash.
 
 The event was a naval greeting and training exercise as the Theodore Roosevelt Carrier Strike Group (TRCSG) transitions from fighting ISIS while in the Arabian Gulf to operations in the US 7th Fleet area of operations such as counter-piracy, freedom of navigation operations and training.
 
 Warfare commanders from the US Navy ships and the Indian Navy ship practised working together and strengthened their crews’ ship handling. Exercises included drills in communications and navigating in several close formations, said a statement. 
 
 Preble commanding officer Cmdr Allen Maxwell Jr said, "This exercise offered a unique opportunity to further our capabilities to operate with and learn from one another."
 
  “It’s an excellent test for our watchstanders to exercise their flexibility as warfighters and to interact with foreign vessels in a tactical environment. Preble is dedicated to ensuring its ability to work together with our allies and partners and deal with common concerns such as disaster relief and safety of sea lanes.”
 
  Additionally, 10 Indian sailors toured combat information centre, central control station and the bridge onboard Preble while 10 Preble Sailors visited Tarkash.
 
  Ensign Grace E Pruden, a sailor assigned to Preble, said, "Having the opportunity to go over to the Indian ship was an awesome cultural experience." 
 
 “I was surprised by how much was the same but also intrigued to learn how our ship and the crew run differently. They were a very hospitable ship, eager to share with us and learn from us,” he said.
 
 Pruden said that the crew size, weapons systems, air capabilities, gas turbine engines, and officer and enlisted ranking were comparable to that of Preble. However, she noted the differences in officer training programmes.
 
 “Whatever field their officers are in when they join is what they will stay in for their entire career, which for most is a minimum of 20 years,” said Pruden. “The idea of changing departments after a tour, or even during a tour, along with standing watches outside of the department we are in, as we do, really surprised them.”
 
  While touring each other’s ships for the afternoon, sailors had the chance to learn how they operate on a day-to-day basis and experience life at sea from a different perspective.
 
 “The officers and crew of Tarkash were fantastic hosts and extremely welcoming to our group,” said Ensign Adam B Campbell, a sailor assigned to Preble. “It was very impressive that a cook staff of only five sailors could produce such a wide variety of delicious, fresh foods for a crew of 300 people three times a day.”
 
 After a formal gift exchange between leadership and friendly conversation, sailors returned to their ships on a rigid-hull inflatable boat to conclude the exercise.
 
 
