Rajkot: One crew member of MT Genessa, the oil tanker on which a huge fire broke out on Wednesday, died while another is said to be critical even as firefighting operations continued for the second day. 

 The deceased crew member was identified as 35-year-old Edwin Fernando. However, it is unclear whether he died of burns or any other cause. Another crew member Nitin Madhukar, a resident of Borivli in Mumbai, is said to be critical. Sources said Fernando was rushed to a private hospital in Gandhidham by the vessel’s shipping agent.
 
 Meanwhile, fire fighting operations continued on Thursday with 10 tugs — seven from Kandla port, one from Adani’s Mundra port and and two from Reliance’s Sikka terminal, continuously bombing water on the tanker. 
 
 “The situation is pretty much under control, but there are plumes of smoke billowing from the vessel. There are intermittent blazes seen. We have been carrying out boundary cooling continuously,” deputy chairman, Deendayal Port Trust (DPT), Alok Singh said.
 
 Singh said that luckily the fire has not spread to the cargo side of the ship, which is carrying nearly 30,000 tonnes of high-speed diesel. “The tank in which the diesel is stored is filled with inert gases and sealed. Experts have told us that chances of the tank catching fire are minimal because the temperature on the vessel has come down from 68 degrees Celsius to 35 degrees today,” he said.
 
 The vessel has also started tilting to one side, probably because of water accumulation caused by continuous spraying from 10 tugs.
 
 DPT has also called in experts of the Protection and Indemnity Club, a non-governmental non-profitable association of marine insurance providers, to assess the situation. The 2000-built crude oil tanker is owned by Mumbai-based Seven Islands Shipping. The fire started in the engine room and spread to the bunkering tank. “The ship master and other crew members are in state of shock and unable to share any more details,” the officials said.
 
 Indian Coast Guard (ICG) is working overtime to ensure that there is no threat to the marine environment due to any possible oil spill as vessel has 880 MT of fuel oil, which is enough to adversely affect the marine environment. Pollution control vessel Samudra Pavak is also stationed at the spot to collect any oil samples while ship ‘Arinjay’ from Okha and interceptor boat from Vadinar collected the water samples.
 
 Preparations were initiated to contain the likely spillage of oil away from ship’s vicinity. Oil containing booms have also been positioned near the vessel. Adequate amount of oil spill dispersant and more than 2000 m of oil containing boom has been positioned to contain any possible oil spillage
 
 Another pollution control vessel Samudra Prahri from Mumbai is also heading to Kandla to augment firefighting and pollution response operations.
 
 
