BENGALURU: The transport department’s crackdown on unlicensed app-based taxis has resulted in a political slugfest between the ruling Congress and JD(S). Cabs coming under the scanner include those of the newly launched aggregator  , backed by JD(S) state president H D  .

 Launching the enforcement drive last week, transport officials seized many vehicles for non-compliance with norms. The sleuths on January 11 seized three Namma TYGR cabs for allegedly operating without aggregator licence. The vehicles were released subsequently, but not before charges of witch-hunt began flying.
 
 “It is obvious the transport department is harassing the drivers of Namma TYGR because it is being supported by Kumaraswamy who took up the cause of drivers. The government should stop this,” said Rameshbabu, JD(S) leader and member of the legislative council.
 
 Transport officials, however, insisted they were doing their job; Namma TYGR cabs cannot ply since the company is yet to obtain licence under the Karnataka On-demand Transportation Technology Aggregators Rules.
 
 Namma TYGR officials shot back saying the case related to aggregator licence is pending before the high court and it is not mandatory to get it since the court has stayed the government’s notification.
 
 “Our cabs are not operational; they are being tested. We heard transport officials are stopping our cabs, which is unfair,” said Sumit Kumar, director of   which operates Namma TYGR cabs.
 
 Namma TYGR was launched in the last week of November by former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda. The aggregator claims more than 5,000 drivers are ready to join them, hoping the new platform would protect their business.
 
 Tanvir Pasha, president of Karnataka Taxi Federation, claimed the seized Namma TYGR cabs were released after taking an undertaking from the drivers that they would never work for the aggregator, a move he felt reeked of political vendetta.
 
 
 
 
 In a sharp rebuttal, transport minister H M   accused Kumaraswamy of encouraging lawlessness for political gain. “Being a former chief minister, Kumaraswamy is expected to abide by the law. It is unfortunate that he is indulging in politics over the issue. While there is no court stay on the aggregator licence case, I expect Kumaraswamy to advise Namma TYGR cabs to get the licence after which nobody will stop them,” said Revanna. 
 
