KOCHI: The proposal to introduce a centralized blood testing lab with nucleic acid test facilities (NAT) for Kerala is yet to see the light of the day. In 2014, the regional blood transfusion centre (RBTC), attached to district hospital in Aluva, had submitted a proposal to Kerala State AIDS Control Society (KSACS) to set up one such facility at the blood bank. Indian Medical Association, Cochin had submitted a similar proposal to the government last year.

 RBTC officials said the central lab would not result in financial difficulties to the government. “If KSACS is ready approve the proposal, we can arrange facilities with resources at hand. What we need is the support for consumables,” said Dr N Vijayakumar, medical officerin-charge, RBTC, Aluva.
 
 “We have a blood transportation van and funds to purchase additional vehicles for transport of blood components at optimum temperature. We have a well-equipped government-recognized training centre for blood bank officers and technicians, one-of-its-kind in Kerala. It is the only NABH accredited blood bank here. No additional construction or personnel is required to start the centralized lab,” he said.
 
 “The logistics of collection, transport and submission of results can be assigned to the company that supplies the reagents and consumables.   and Odisha governments have entered into such agreements with suppliers,” he said.
 
 As of now, only IMA blood bank in Kochi and Thrissur Jubilee Medical College have introduced NAT. “In 2012, we introduced NAT. So far, we could prove 16 HIV negative cases detected under ELISA at other hospitals as positive with NAT. Given the fact that at least four blood components would be separated and given to different patients, we can say that 64 lives could be saved,” said ex-president of IMA, Cochin Dr  , adding that centralized labs in Kozhikode, Kochi and the capital would solve transportation issues.
 
 But, KSACS added that NAT is not financially viable. “In Kerala, four lakh units of blood is required every year and NAT cost for a unit is Rs 1,000. We will have to shell out a huge amount for the purpose. It will be feasible to private hospitals that charge up to Rs 1,500 for testing. Even, NAT is not foolproof as there is a window period of up to 10 days. We plan to upgrade testing standards of each blood bank and promote safe and voluntary donation,” said Dr R Ramesh, project director, KSACS.
 
 Dr Varghese said that the cost won’t be so high as tests will be done after pooling samples. “We suggest pool testing as a group of samples would be pooled and tested. If the test result is positive only, we will go for individual sample test,” he said.
 
