PATNA: The stretch from   to   will be developed as riparian wetland area under the  . A part of the proposed ‘Riparian Wetland and Riverfront Development Project’, it is preliminarily estimated to cost Rs23 crore.

 “The survey of the area has been conducted by Spanish firm Eptisa Servicios de Ingenieria SL, the management consultant for the Smart City project. After today’s inspection, a detailed project report (DPR) will be prepared before floating tenders for the project,” divisional commissioner Anand Kishor said after visiting Bans Ghat on Wednesday.
 
 A riparian wetland area has certain characteristics, including purifying water by filtering sediments, risk reduction by flood damage, reduction in erosion, a diversity of animal and plant life with space for people to relax.
 
 This stretch along the Ganga bank will be developed as a wetland and green zone with various components like urban parks, wet meadows, public ghats, upper and lower promenade (a path especially constructed next to a sea for walking), urban plaza and mood walks (a concept to harness nature’s healing power). “The promenade will have different rows with a variety of different shrubs, trees and herbs. The ecosystem of the riverfront will be developed in such a way that it coexists with the surrounding,” Kishor added. 
 
 Other components such as public viewing platforms, cafeterias and touring spaces would also be developed under the project. Buddha Ghat, Taar Ghat, Sipahi Ghat and Bhagwa Ghat between west part of the Collectorate Ghat and Bans Ghat would also be developed. The riverfront would be connected to Ashok Rajpath at Buddha Ghat near A N Sinha Institute, near Sabhyata Dwar and Collectorate Ghat. An upper and lower walkway would be developed. The upper walkway would be open in all seasons, but the public would use the lower walkway only when the river water recedes. 
 
 It would be integrated with the   (BUIDCo)’s riverfront development project.
 
 Talking about the BUIDCo riverfront project, Kishor said: “BUIDCo project will be completed in the next 6 to 8 months. It has the provisions to develop ghats.” The BUIDCo riverfront project entails development of a walkway along 16 ghats in Patna with public amenities. Chief minister Nitish Kumar had laid the foundation of the project in 2014. 
 
 Officials present during the inspection on Wednesday said encroachments on the river bank would have to be removed. “The stretch from Bankipore Girl’s High School to Samrat Ashoka Convention Kendra is free from encroachment. But the area from the convention centre to Collectorate Ghat is encroached,” an official said. As per the survey conducted by Eptisa, there are a total of 137 temporary squatters on the proposed stretch. 
 
 
