NEW DELHI: The IPO lane seems to be getting busier as three dozen companies have lined up initial share-sale plans worth Rs 35,000 crore in the coming months, largely to fund their expansion projects and working capital requirement. These include six state-run entities — Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency (IREDA),  , IRCON International, RITES, Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers and Mazagon Dock — as the government intends to unlock the real value of such PSUs and bring in greater accountability. 

 
 Most of these three dozen firms plan to utilise the initial public offer (IPO) proceeds for business expansion as well as working capital requirements, according to the draft papers filed with the Securities and Exchange Board of India. Additionally, some of the firms believe the listing of equity shares on the bourses will enhance their brand name and provide liquidity to existing shareholders. 
 
  director (capital markets) Munish Aggarwal said, “After raising record funds through IPOs in 2017, the primary markets this year will also witness healthy fund-raising activity, driven by improving utilisation levels across industries and tightening of credit availability on account of the poor state of affairs in banking industry.” 
 
 In this year, Barbeque Nation Hospitality, TCNS Clothing Company, Nazara Technologies and   are among the 12 companies that have secured Sebi’s nod to float their public offers. In addition, 24 companies including Route Mobile, CreditAccess Grameen, Sembcorp Energy India, Flemingo Travel Retail and Lodha Developers are awaiting the regulator’s approval to float IPOs. 
 
 Moreover, 15 companies including ICICI Securities, Bandhan Bank, Hindustan Aeronautics and Mishra Dhatu Nigam have already hit the capital markets so far this year. According to experts, the IPO market will continue to see hectic activity as over a dozen firms are awaiting Sebi’s nod to launch their public issues. 
 
 J Kalyaniwala, vice-president of investment banking at Prabhudas Lilladher, said, “The IPO market is buoyant for good quality company issues, which are priced cautiously. There is investor appetite for companies that price their IPOs keeping money-on-table for investors.” The year 2017 saw 36 companies collectively raising a record over Rs 67,000 crore through their respective initial share-sales.
 
