The first time Godson   laid his hands on a palm frond was when he was in school. "I was in need of an autograph book, but I didn’t have the money to buy one," says the 42-year-old from Kanyakumari, who works as a pastor in Mumbai. When his attempt at making a home-made autograph book failed, he decided to make an ‘olai chuvadi’ (a palm-leaf booklet) as an autograph.

 Since then he has been obsessed with palm trees, he says. "Initially friends and relatives ridiculed me for being obsessed with the trees, but I stuck to my passion," he adds.
 
 In 1999, when he joined the United Theological College, Bengaluru, people there encouraged his interest in palm trees. "It is where I took up my interest in making portraits using palm leaves," Samuel says. He cuts out images from palm leaf with a scalpel. "These portraits were made from pre-existing pictures," he says pointing to the portraits of Gandhi, Bruce lee and Dalai  , and adds it takes him anywhere from 45 minutes to six days to complete one portrait. "Using the same technique, I also do live portraits of people," he adds.
 
 Samuel’s passion led him to do two theses on palm trees for his course. "I did a thesis on Economics of Palmyra for my bachelors course," he says. He used his love and interest of palm trees to understand religious ideas. "I also did a thesis on the religious and ritual significance of Palmyra in  ," he says. In his sermons, he also brings in ideas on how environmental issues are closely linked with palm trees, he says.
 
 On May 16, 2015, he set out on an 18-day bike trip from Mumbai to Nagercoil to explore and document how Palmyra was linked with people’s lives. This experience has resulted in a book, ‘Panaimara Saalai’, which is in the making, he says. 
 
 He narrates how in  , he saw sweepers cleaning streets. "The brushes they were using were made of palm fibre," he says.
 
 For the past eight months, Samuel has been making a documentary on palm trees and its significance in Tamil life. "I interviewed people depending on palm trees for a living, writers, artists, craftsmen and government staff," he says. His film seeks to throw light on Palmyra, which he says is "the least understood tree."
 
 
