Nagpur: Patients of eye surgery, especially of cataract and retinal surgery, coming to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) are spending their own money for the last few months as most eye drops and sutures are not available in both the colleges. This is when the state government has announced to make Maharashtra a cataract-free state. Patients in the GMCH eye department told TOI they spend anything between Rs500 to Rs1000 to procure these materials to get their operations done. It is extremely difficult for senior citizens who require these surgeries to buy the medicines for financial as well as physical reasons. Sources said though college and hospital made certain local purchases every now and then, the major reason for the shortage was that Haffkine Biopharmaceuticals, which has been authorised to purchase of medicines and equipment for entire state from August last year, has not started the supply yet for reasons not known to medical colleges. “Government should either procure the medicines on its own or authorize GMCH deans to do so. Involving a third agency that is not serious about the work makes no sense. It is almost a year that purchase of medcinies and drugs is in jeopardy,” said a teacher. Major drugs not available in the eye department include Flurbiprofen eye drop, Homoatotropine 2% eye drop, Tropicamide+phenyl Ephrine eye drop, hypersol-6 eye ointment, chloramphenicol +polymycinB, Dexa eyeointment, Trypan blue injection, perigium sutures etc besides the normal sutures needed for cataract as well as retinal surgeries. A source told TOI a few medicines and drops were not available for many years. This is because government never made expensive drugs a priority in the eye surgeries. “Due to cataract, it is difficult for us to travel to GMCH. Then, we don’t have enough money to buy these medicines. Since we have no option but to get operated, we buy these materials from outside. We can do this only on second visit. During first visit, we don’t carry enough money and have to come back again after arranging the money,” said Swati Waghmare, a patient.