Even as he prepares to release his film Mulk later this year, Ra.One director   has started shooting for his next   in Lucknow from last week. The film, a political satire, stars Richa Chadha,  , Shriya Pilgaonkar, Saurabh Shukla, Kumud Mishra, Pankaj Tripathi, Manoj Pahwa, Prateik Babbar and  , apart from a few actors from the city. 
The shooting began at the Indira Gandhi Pratishthan in Gomti Nagar, Lucknow last Monday morning amid tight security with only Pawan Malhotra shooting on the first day. Richa and Divya reached the city a day later and began shooting for the film soon. 
 We caught Divya shooting for the film at the   on Saturday afternoon. “I am having a blast shooting for this film. When Anubhav gave me the script, I was cracking up constantly and instantly said yes to it,” says the   actress, adding, “Another incentive of saying yes to the film was because it’s being shot in Lucknow which is like a second home to me now. I have so many close friends here that I look for excuses to come here.” 
 This is Sinha' s second film to be shot in Lucknow within a span of a few months. He last shot Mulk with actors Rishi Kapoor and   in a record 27 days. "I plan to wrap this film in even lesser time hence have a schedule of just 24 days this time," says Sinha.
 In fact, it's also the second film shoot for Richa Chadha, Divya Dutta and Prateik Babbar in the city. While Richa shot for Sudhir Mishra’s Daas Dev, Divya had spent considerable time in the city shooting for Babumoshai Bandookbaaz. Prateik shot for Sinha’s film Mulk. Both Richa and Prateik’s partners Ali Fazal and Sanya Sagar respectively, belong to the city and have been enjoying their respective partners families hospitality whole shooting for the film in Lucknow. 
 Saurabh Shukla, meanwhile, has almost become Lucknow ka bashinda having shot for several films here including Jolly LLB 2, Raid, Daas Dev, to name a few, and staged several of his plays here in the past few years. 
 
  
  Divya Dutta during one of the scenes at Indira Gandhi Pratishthan in Gomti Nagar(BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)
 
 
  Anubhav Sinha at the shoot (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
