GURUGRAM: Burglars seem to be striking at will in the city’s upscale areas. The latest victim is a resident of  , a Sector 54 township. Satish Kaushik, a psychologist, lost Rs 6 lakh and valuables worth Rs 1.5 lakh from his residence on Saturday. This is the third burglary that the township is witnessing in the last two months. Also, 10 water pumping motors and 15 cycles were stolen from the township in last two months, according to residents.

 The burglars targeted Kaushik’s home while he was away in Jaipur. “I returned home around 10.30pm on Saturday. I was shocked to see broken grilles, which were sawed off by the burglars to gain entry into the home. All rooms and shelves were opened, and cash and valuables were missing when I reached. My maid had cleaned the home at 2pm. So the   could have taken place after 2pm,” he said.
 
 Police reached the spot immediately. “I called up the control room and police arrived immediately. They also brought a forensic team and crime branch officials,” Kaushik said. An FIR has been filed against unidentified persons under Section 457, 380 IPC.
 
 Both residents’ welfare association (RWA) and residents of the township are a worried lot. “Every five days, a cycle is stolen. Also, vehicle thefts are reported at least twice a week. Besides this, burglaries are also rising. The boundary wall of the township is broken, and at some areas, there is no boundary wall at all. Also, several CCTV cameras installed on the premises of Suncity are defunct. The developer doesn’t have any mechanism in place to monitor the footage recorded by CCTV cameras. Safety in the township has continuously been compromised. We will stage a huge protest if safety measures are not taken seriously by the developer at the earliest,” said VMK Singh, general secretary,  .
 
 “The security situation in the township is worsening day by day. Despite the tall claim of beefing up safety in the township by the developer at the time of selling homes, thefts and burglaries are increasing in the area, posing a threat to residents. Outsiders can easily access the township. If this continues, we may have to move out of the township,” said a resident requesting anonymity.
 
 
