PUNE: Doctors in the city are a busy lot these days attending to patients complaining of persistent cold and cough.

 “There has been a two-fold rise in the number of cases this month. A ‘persistent flu’ has started affecting people and it takes over 8-10 days or more to clear,” the doctors said, while blaming the sudden fluctuation in the city’s temperature this month so far.
 
 Vivek Tadwalkar, senior consultant physician at the  , said the incidence seems to be more in those who already have an underlying nasal or seasonal allergy. 
 
 “I have seen patients whose cough and cold have been lingering for three to four weeks, instead of subsiding in usual five to six days. Quite a few patients with intractable dry hacking cough visit our OPD daily,” he said.
 
 Tadwalkar said it is typically a viral infection, which only gets worse in patients with a weakened immune system, exacerbated by high winter pollution, dust and sudden temperature fluctuations. “Those with an allergic tendency or those at extremes of age and asthmatics have been especially prone to the flu this season. In many of these cases, the infection does not respond to routine anti-cough or cold medicines,” he added.
 
 Family physician Avinash Bhondwe said the first week of January had low temperatures followed by a rise in the mid-January period. “These changes were sudden, causing a two-fold increase in upper respiratory tract infections like common cold, fever, throat pain, followed by persistent cough. I have been seeing 20 such patients each day against a normal of 5-10,” Bhondwe said.
 
 He said the fever is usually self-limiting and does not need antibiotics to be cured. “It is important to take precautions. Among other things, keeping doors and windows shut after evening is one of the precautions. If fever or cough persists for more than five and seven days respectively, a visit to the doctor is a must,” Bhondwe added.
 
 Consultant physician   said the flu-like infection requires two to three days of rest, paracetamol and decongestants, without the necessity of using antibiotics. “If somebody is coughing beyond two weeks, he/she must get this checked by a doctor,” he said.
 
 Santosh Gosavi, president of the General Practitioners' Association, Pune chapter, has seen a 60% rise in such patients recently. “The extreme temperature fluctuations coupled with pollution is one of the causes,” he said.
 
 Working professional   has had a cold since the last 15 days. “I already have a bad sinus infection, which persists throughout the year. The flu has made it worse. I am trying to opt for the more natural routes like steam to fix this,” she said.
 
 Palak Patel, another patient, said she has been sleeping with her head raised on a stack of pillows since the past month. “This is because of the persistent cough that I have been suffering from. It gets worse when I lie down and during the early morning and night hours,” she said.
 
 Experts suggested the proper hygiene and intake of water and home-cooked food can go a long away in keeping such ailments at bay.
 
 
