GUWAHATI: The names which figured in the first draft of the National Register of Citizens (NRC) released on Sunday midnight indicate that the verification process was fast-paced in upper   in comparison to  , the lower and central parts of the state. In Jorhat district, the names of 87% people out of the total 9.7 lakh applicants were included in the first draft, while about 80% out of total 13 lakh people found their names in the draft in   district.

 In Tinsukia, nearly 73% of the total number of applicants were included in the register. The overall percentage of inclusion of names is higher in upper Assam compared to the state average of 57.75%. “It is obvious that verification will be comparatively slow where the problem of migrants persists. Upper Assam districts are relatively free from this problem compared to other parts of the state,” said BJP legislator Shiladitya Dev. 
 
 AIUDF general secretary Aminul Islam said as the verification process has to filter out genuine Indian citizens from migrants, the pace is bound to be slow in places facing the problem of influx. “We want a foolproof NRC in which not a single genuine Indian citizen is left out,” Islam added. CM   thanked the people of the state for helping in bringing out the first draft. 
 
 
  
  
 “It is because of the people’s support that the draft was released smoothly. We seek similar cooperation for the final draft,” he said. Historically, upper Assam districts did not face the problem of influx from Bangladesh like lower and central parts. Upper Assam predominantly comprises ethnic Assamese and tribals.
 
 Before Independence, there were settlements of agriculturists in the state from the erstwhile   province which included presentday Bangladesh. Most of these settlements were in what now comprise lower and central Assam and Barak Valley regions. 
 
 Since Monday morning, people rushed to   to check whether their names figured on the list made available at 8am. Officials said the process was slow for applicants who submitted panchayat certificates to establish family linkages after the Gauhati HC deemed them invalid in a ruling last year. 
 
 “The verification of remaining 1.39 crore applicants (out of 3.29 crore) is on,” Registrar General of India Sailesh said on Sunday. 
 
 
 
 
