Panaji: A day after suffering   from the  ,   SC have written to the All India Football Federation (AIFF) seeking immunity from the ignominy of the drop.
 
  Churchill, Goa’s lone representative in the top tier of Indian football, needed a win to avoid relegation in their last game but eventually lost to champions   in Panchkula on Thursday by a goal.
  
  The   outfit finished ninth in the league standings with 17 points from 18 matches. Although   finished 10th and last with 15 points, Luis Norton de Matos’ side enjoyed relegation immunity being the AIFF’s developmental squad.
  
  Owner Churchill Alemao feels his club have been victims of poor refereeing. “When we played Arrows, we were winning but they scored two late goals even after time was up. After that match, most of the refereeing decisions have gone against us. The referees have not given us penalties at crucial moments, unnecessarily blown for fouls and have not allowed our players any chance,” said Alemao on Friday.
  
  Churchill suffered straight defeats in the opening five matches but their form improved after new foreign signings in January. They were on a roll until the 1-2 defeat to Indian Arrows at home where Abhijit Sarkar scored a late brace after emerging from the bench.
  
  “If they (AIFF) don’t want any football (team) from Goa, then that’s their problem. So many players from my team last season are now playing in the   ( ). I have gained only a name but nothing from football. I hope the AIFF accepts my request,” said Alemao.
  
  In the 1997-98 season, Churchill Brothers finished ninth out of 10 teams in the   ( ) but were retained. However, the club ended in the drop zone during the 2004-05 season.
  
  Churchill also argued over the fact that Aizawl FC were retained in the 2016-17 season although initially relegated in the previous season. The Mizoram club even went on to win the title, making them the first team from the North East to do so.
  
  “Ours is a club that has produced so many good footballers and our request must be taken into consideration,” said Alemao.
