Surat: The   ( ) will embark on an eight-day long awareness programme on rainwater harvesting (RWH) under Sujalam Suflam Jal Yojana starting from May 14.

 Residents from all the seven municipal zones across the city will be engaged by the civic officials to spread knowledge on the advantages of rainwater harvesting, cost factor and long-term benefits in the societies and individual houses. 
 
 Under Sujalam Sufalam Jal Yojana, the civic body has taken up the campaign to clean the water bodies, including lakes and river, and setting up of groundwater recharging system for maximum amount of storage of rainwater. The rainwater stored through the RWHs could be utilized during the non-monsoon period when the city is facing water shortage. 
 
 SMC’s additional engineer K H   told TOI, “Under the leadership of municipal commissioner, our teams will be moving in each of the municipal zones from May 14 to spread knowledge on RWHs. Like the solar city, we have set the target to transform Surat into the RH city in the next two years.”
 
 Khatwani added, “City has already started facing acute water crisis following the drying of river Tapi, wild vegetation growth and deterioration of water quality. In such a situation, rainwater harvesting is the only option to tap the rainwater.” 
 
 At present, the civic body owns 348 RWHs at various locations across the city and 6,000 by private individuals and residential societies. The target is to double the RWHs across the city ahead of monsoon season. 
 
 According to Khatwani, residents consider RWH a costly affair, but it is not the case. In  , RWHs are installed for Rs 20,000. In Surat, the range of RH starts from Rs 30,000 to Rs 1 lakh, depending on the depth of the storage tank etc. However, this is a one-time investment and one will not have to pay for the drinking water anymore. In Surat, all the high-rise residential and commercial buildings under the jurisdiction of SMC and the   (SUDA) have to set up rainwater recharge system. 
 
 The natural water table in many areas is rapidly depleting, owing to urbanization and demand from an increasing population. 
 
 To alleviate this situation, rainwater falling on a property can be made to percolate into the earth to eventually recharge the groundwater, Khatwani added.
 
 
