KOCHI: The   has held that withholding certificates of post-graduate medical students who fail to render compulsory government service after finishing their course in government quota cannot be said to be wrong or against public policy. 

 A division bench of Chief Justice   and Justice   reversed a   in June last year disallowing withholding of certificates to force the candidates to pay Rs20 lakh as compensation for not undergoing the compulsory service. 
 
 The single bench had held that the bond signed by the candidates cannot be enforced by the state government as it is opposed to public policy.
 
 Withholding certificates of post-graduate medical students who fail to render compulsory government service after finishing their course in government quota cannot be said to be wrong or against public policy, held the high court.
 
 A division bench comprising Chief Justice Antony Dominic and Justice Dama Seshadri Naidu reversed a single bench’s judgment of June, 2017 that held that withholding of certificates to force the candidates to pay Rs 20 lakh as compensation for not undergoing the compulsory service cannot be allowed. The bond signed by the candidates cannot be enforced by the state government as it is opposed to public policy and such an agreement cannot be enforced as per Section 23 of the Contract Act, the single bench had held.
 
 Three appeals relating to candidates from other states who got admissions to the post-graduate medical courses under all-India quota through   was considered by the court. They had declined to undergo the one-year compulsory service under the state government and had questioned detainment of certificates demanding payment of Rs 20 lakh each.
 
 It was considering one of their petitions that a single bench held that detaining of certificates is against public policy. However, another single bench had upheld the government action.
 
 Citing the contradictory judgments by the single benches, the division bench said the doctrine of public policy is highly subjective, shifting, and even changing. “Statutorily examined, the compulsion of the students’ fulfilling the bond-obligation does not seem to fall foul of any public policy,” the division bench said.
 
 The division bench also pointed out that the central government has permitted the state government, university, or college to impose its own conditions for admission. The court also said the students executed the bonds and never challenged them.
 
 Argument of the state government that the education of the candidates is subsidized by it also found favour with the division bench. “The state compels the student to serve one year in the state where she had honed her medical skills and acquired a higher qualification. After all the state invests and subsidizes medical education. In the scenario of limited resources, spending somewhere amounts to not spending somewhere else. So those who get benefited must repay their debt – of gratitude,” the judgment stated.
 
 
