NEW DELHI: Three days before the budget session of the   is scheduled to begin, the leader of opposition, BJP’s  , alleged on Tuesday that the assembly  ,  , had “gone missing”. 

 While speaker Ram Niwas Goel refused to comment on the issue, sources said that the officer was on leave and was likely to report back to Prasar Bharati from where he came on deputation in July 2016. Suryadevara himself was also not available for comment. The leader of opposition has demanded to know if the officer has been relieved from his duties and repatriated. 
 
 The AAP government in Delhi has been at loggerheads with the Centre after Prasar Bharati refused to extend Suryadevara’s deputation to the assembly. The assembly continued to retain him despite the then LG Najeeb Jung’s order to the contrary. The matter is being heard in the Delhi high court. 
 
 “In a mysterious turn of events, the secretary of Delhi assembly goes   days before the session is to start. Mr Prasanna Kumar is the same official for whom Delhi government went to Court against his repatriation. And now, without LG’s or LOP’s knowledge, he disappears,” Gupta tweeted on Tuesday.
 
 The BJP leader recalled that Suryadevara, originally an officer of the newsreader-cum-translator (Telugu) cadre, became the assembly secretary in July 2016 for a year. Assembly speaker Goel filed a writ petition in the high court after the then LG Jung issued an order to repatriate the officer to Prasar Bharati, Gupta said in a statement.
 
 Gupta pointed out that “his disappearance is all the more surprising at this juncture when the assembly session is going to start from Friday. The secretary of the assembly occupies an important position and has to play a significant role in preparation of the session. Any news or order about his absence acquires great significance before start of the session”. 
 
 Refusing to comment on Tuesday, Goel said the work for the budget session was on in full swing. Another official in the assembly responded to queries saying, “Wait for Friday and you will see who is there in the seat of the assembly secretary. Why speculate on the matter!”
 
 With no confirmation coming from the speaker’s office on whether a new person will take charge, the suspense is unlikely to be over before Friday. The first day will open with lieutenant governor Anil Baijal’s address to the House that was approved on Tuesday in a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.
 
