PATNA: After the marathon raids for five consecutive days on the office and residence of suspended Muzaffarpur SSP Vivek Kumar, his family members and in-laws at several locations in state and Uttar Pradesh in disproportionate assets case, the special vigilance unit (SVU) of Bihar police is now trying to unearth the immovable properties amassed by the 2007 batch IPS officer.

 SVU sources said they have altogether unearthed movable properties worth at least Rs6.48 crore amassed in the name of Kumar, his wife Nidhi Karnwal and his in-laws’ before and after the raids. “We have information about huge amount of immovable assets amassed by the officer in the name of his wife and in-laws across the country and we have started investigation in that direction,” sources said.
 
 “Movable properties worth Rs2.07 crore was unearthed in preliminary inquiry only after which the FIR was lodged on April 15 against Kumar, his wife and his four in-laws for amassing assets disproportionate to their known sources of income,” they said. The SVU raids on Kumar and his family members started on April 16 and continued till April 20.
 
 They said rest of the movable assets out of Rs6.48 crore were unearthed during the raids on Kumar’s official residence at Muzaffarpur, his in-laws’ place at Aryapuri Colony in Muzaffarnagar and Varun Vihar in Saharanpur, both in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 Sources said altogether Rs2,18,54,280 in cash, fixed deposits of Rs1.85 crore in the name of Kumar, his wife and in-laws and jewellery valued at Rs37.48 lakh were recovered during the raids.
 
 “Apart from these, demonetised Indian currency of Rs59,000 face value, 1685 Canadian dollars, 498 US dollars and 1,468 Malaysian ringgits were also seized during the raids,” sources said.
 
 “Out of the Malaysian currency, 1,200 Ringgits worth around Rs20,000 in Indian currency and the demonetised Indian currency were seized from the official residence of Kumar at Muzaffarpur,” sources said. 
 
 Meanwhile, Muzaffarpur police sources said SP (SVU) Kumar Amar Singh had lodged an FIR against unknown persons with the Town police station in Muzaffarpur on April 20 for recovery of a country-made carbine, a magazine and an empty cartridge of .315 bore from the chamber of SSP at his official residence at Muzaffarpur during the raids.
 
 They said one of the three Kumar’s readers, Dinesh Yadav, is still underground and raids were conducted as several places to nab him.
 
 
