MUMBAI: A massive 72% fire incidents in the city are a result of short circuits. The key reason is several old installations do not change wiring every 20 years which is mandatory going by the capacity of the plastic and rubber components to sustain the flow of current.

 On January 8, TOI had reported that the city ranked second in fires caused due to short circuit with   ( ) data revealing 418 deaths took place over 10 years.
 
 Experts strongly recommend an audit of electrical circuits every two to five years to ensure the load on gadgets does not exceed the strength of old wiring. They say people opt for cheaper wires even though ones with flame-retardant cover are available at a slightly higher price.
 
 “Imbalance of load on wiring is the main reason for short circuits, besides use of   electrical gadgets. Absence of quality circuit-breakers is another issue. In most SoBo establishments, the old wiring networks do not have circuit breakers. To add to this, the wiring has to bear load of newer gadgets,” revealed a senior expert with one of Mumbai’s leading power suppliers.
 
 
  
 “We need the authorities to stop substandard material from coming into the market. Besides, we do not have enough manpower to conduct checks and certify networks,” said a senior industrialist, who is into electrical manufacturing.
 
 In view of the shortage of auditors, the central electricity regulatory authority had issued a notification last year directing states to notify a panel of chartered safety electrical engineers for each city and district.
 
 It is learnt that state government is yet to announce its panels of electrical auditors. “Many foreign countries follow the same method for electrical safety and the government of India wants states to follow the same. Looking into the fires and short circuit issues, the government could have done it immediately, but bureaucrats do not seem keen for reasons best known to them,” a source said.
 
 Senior electrical officials in the state   were not available for comment despite repeated calls.
 
