HYDERABAD: In a tragic loss of the archaeological history of the state, rare paintings in the rock-cut caves of a 9th century temple have been erased under whitewash by villagers. The cave temples on the hillock of Adavi Somanapalli, located 22km away from Manthani in Bhupalapally district, are not on the protected list but are one of the oldest structures in Telangana. Historians have now complained to the department of archaeology.

 “They were initially Jain caves that were later converted into a Lord Shiva temple after installation of shivalingam. During the recent Shivaratri celebrations, the villagers whitewashed the paintings on the pillars and cave walls. It is complicated to restore these paintings. In the name of beautification, they are using acrylic paints and damaging the archaeologically-significant structures,” Aravind Arya Pakide, an archaeology expert, told STOI.
 
 
  
 
 “The temple is located in a forest and one needs to walk 4km from   to reach there. These are a group of four rock-cut temples facing west on the banks of river Manair. Locally, they are called ‘Nainagullu’ and the temples resemble the famous cave temples of   near  , constructed by the Vishnukundins,” said Aravind.
 
 The first two temples have an ‘Ardhamandapa’, the ornate gateway or open hall that leads into the ‘Garbhagriha’ or sanctum sanctorum. “The striking feature is the ceiling with coloured paintings. Most of the paintings are lost, with only traces of black, red, blue & yellow figurines remaining. We can make out scantilydressed men and women only till the thighs. These are richly adorned with crowns, necklaces, leaf-shaped earrings, heavy bracelets and yagnopavita or the sacred thread. We can also faintly see dancers, courtesans, battle-scenes, horsedrawn chariots, archers, palaces etc. This   leads into the Garbhagriha which houses a shivalingam and a beheaded Nandi,” said Aravind.
 
 The Garbhagriha of the second cave temple consists of a pedestal on which there is a damaged sculpture of ‘Mahishasuramardini’. The third rockcut temple only has an Ardhamandapa housing the statues of Lord Ganapati & a Dwarapalaka. The fourth temple has an incomplete inscription on the outer pillar of the Ardhamandapa. The inscription is in Telugu which belongs to either 10th or 11th century AD.
 
 When contacted, Warangal assistant director of archeaology, Ganga Devi, told STOI, “The temple belongs to 9th century. We have received a complaint regarding whitewashing of the walls of the temple. Based on instructions of the director of archeology, we will inspect the monument soon. We are also preparing a proposal to include it in the list of protected monuments.”
 
