MUMBAI: The guests, mostly clad in white kurta-pyjama, breeze into the brightly lit Rizvi College ground in Bandra and occupy chairs and sofas late at night. 

 A middle-aged Taj Qureishi, veteran of emceeing at countless wedding receptions and other social functions in the city, warmly welcomes the guests on the mike, introducing them as “aham shakhsiyaat” (important personalities). And then he requests the guests to move to the dinner tables to enjoy the delicious dishes. The   goes on till 4am.
 
 Welcome to the   party in the holy month of  . 
 
 Several affluent citizens prefer to invite guests to the sehri (the pre-dawn meal) over the iftar. With sehri the fast begins while   announces its breaking.
 
 “Since most guests have to go for tarawih (a special prayer in the night during Ramzan) after iftar, they are short on time and prefer to eat at ease at the sehri dinners. This year, around 3,000 guests came to our dinner and we are glad that many of them were non-Muslims,” said Bandra-based businessman and member of Maharashtra Wakf Board Khalid   who, along with his brother Imran Babu Qureishi, held the sehri party at Rizvi College. Among those who attended the Qureishis’ sehri dinner were BJP city president  , Congress leader Hussain Dalwai and senior Urdu columnist Hasan Kamaal. Khalid added that he and his brother, under the banner of All India Jamiatul Qureish, have held sehri dinners for the past 17 years, primarily to “seek Allah’s blessings and promote peace and harmony” and may hold a separate dinner soon for his friends from Bollywood.
 
 For Mumbai Central-based businessman Tabrez Rabuberwala, sehri dinner is important because many of his friends from far-off suburbs cannot join the iftar parties for the same reason that they have to rush to catch the tarawih prayers. His upcoming sehri dinner at Marine Lines-based Islam Gymkhana on Saturday will feature the who’s who of the community in the city and a lavish dinner will be spread.
 
 MIM legislator Waris Pathan who has attended several sehri dinners said, “Ramzan is a pious month where happiness should be shared with the poor. Sehri dinner is fine but the rich alone should not be invited. I attend sehri and iftar of both the poor and the rich.”
 
 
