The young basketballers at the   India Academy in   have some special guests this week. Four current NBA players – Corey Brewer of   Thunder, Caris LeVert of Brooklyn Nets,  , and   of   - are at the academy as part of the Basketball Without Borders Asia camp, organized by NBA, International Basketball Federation (FIBA), and the Basketball Federation of India (BFI). The camp is being organized in India for the first time and has brought 66 young players from 16 Asian countries to Greater Noida, where they are being coached by some of the top professionals from the NBA. The four NBA players were joined by Indian basketball star   and former   and currently NBA Academy Global Technical Director - Women’s Programs,  .

 
 
  
  Dwight Powell of Dallas Mavericks coaching the kids
 
 During the four day camp, the players – along with NBA Academy coaches – will train the players in a variety of drills including movement efficiency, positional skill development, shooting and skills competitions, as well as involving them in five-on-five games. On the first day, the players took the players to the court, teaching them the basics of dribbling, handling the ball, and lay-up shots. Impressed by the talent of the Indian and Asian youngsters, Corey Brewer said, “This is the right way for India to go about creating more basketball players – catch them young and expose them to top-level training early on.” For the kids, it was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to meet not one but half a dozen pro players and learn from them. Nandini Shukla, a 14-year-old from Greater Noida, who was part of the camp, said, “The coaches were so great and approachable. They gave us some great tips about dribbling and stance and it was a really fun experience.”
 
  
  Oklahoma City Thunder player Corey Brewer supervises a training session of young kids
 
 
  
  Caris LeVert of Brooklyn Nets coaches the youngsters
 
 
 
  
  NBA players Dwight Powell and Kelly Olynyk
 
 
  
  Miami Heat forward Kelly Olynyk playing with a young trainee at the academy
 
 
  
  Satnam Singh, Indian basketball player
 
 
 
  
  Olympic medallist and NBA Academy Global Technical Director - Women’s Programs, Ruth Riley, coaching the young girls
 
 
  
  
 
