KOLKATA: The police have started detaining pedestrians who are using mobile phones while crossing roads. This is part of a targeted effort by the cops to curb accidents, a majority of which involve pedestrians, jaywalkers in particular.

 According to Lalbazar, they are also temporarily seizing the mobile phones and returning them to the owners an hour later. With pedestrian deaths constituting about 31% of accidental deaths in the city, police said they were forced to take some actions to stem the rot.
 
  
  
 
 A study of accidents in 2016 and 2017 had revealed that dangerous behaviour by pedestrians led to 18% accidents and another nine per cent happened due to their inattention.
 
 “The onus of safety cannot lie only with the motorists alone. If you are using Bluetooth or talking on a mobile while crossing the road or actually trying to cross the road using a headphone, you are risking your life and that of others. We are counselling these people after taking them to the local traffic guard. Local students and club members are helping us. Once the awareness drive is over, we might confiscate the phone and deposit it in court,” said  , DC (traffic).
 
 A sergeant at Thakupukur traffic guard said they were detaining pedestrians found using Bluetooth devices on the spot while crossing the road.
 
 “If they are found talking on the mobile phones, we are taking them to the traffic guard to explain them the dangers of violating basic safety measures,” he added.
 
 Police said they have identified specific areas in the city where pedestrian crossovers have become a major safety issue. This includes the Tollygunge Metro, Thakurpukur Bazar,   and   crossings.
 
 “We are carrying out targeted drives on these stretches keeping in mind the traffic requirements. So far, we have received the support of locals,” said Kumar.
 
 “The issue is not confined to pedestrian safety alone. Absence of pavements has an impact on traffic flow as well. For instance, the   area is replete with commercial establishments and there is heavy pedestrian and vehicular traffic on the road. Vehicular traffic often moves at a snail’s pace on this stretch as pedestrians, two-wheelers, cars and pushcart vendors share the limited road space available on either side of the stretch,” said an officer.
 
