KANNUR: Even as the CPM has strengthened the campaign against  , the collective of the local residents of Keezhattur in the district who oppose the proposed national highway bypass through the paddy fields there, the   (KSSP), has said that the environmental impact of the project would be huge and hence alternative means should be explored. 

 The KSSP, which did a study of the bypass alignment through Keezhattur and also the alternative option of developing the existing road through Thaliparamba town, said building flyovers in the crowded places is more feasible than reclaiming a 4.5km stretch of paddy field.
 
 Moreover, it will require at least 1.25 lakh truckloads of soil to fill the land even if the level is elevated by 3.5m and this will naturally lead to demolition of hills, which again will cause environmental problems, said the study report.
 
 Against the backdrop of such issues, an environmental impact assessment study should be conducted and the best option is to develop the existing road, it said. Further, when the new   road via Pazhayangadi and   is commissioned, it will naturally reduce the vehicular traffic on the highway passing through Thaliparamba and hence if the road is widened to 30m and a flyover is built between   and  , the issue could be solved, said the report.
 
 When it comes to development, it should be people-friendly and there should be consensus, said the report, which questions the CPM stand that there will not be any environmental impact.
 
 Though there is an argument that building flyovers is expensive, the reality is that it will be beneficial in the long run as it will not require any maintenance for the next 50 years, said KSSP.
 
 Meanwhile, the Vayalkilikal is all set to revive their campaign with the support of environmental organizations and the new round will begin on March 25.
 
 "If you go ahead with the so-called development, without considering the environmental impact, it will be disastrous and the reality is that they are adamant about developing the bypass through the paddy fields though alternatives are available," said  , an activist and local resident.
 
 He said the fight was not for Keezhattur only but for the cause of environment and they would accept the support of any group that comes forward to fight for the cause. 
 
 
