VELLORE: More than one lakh answer scripts of various subjects have disappeared from  , according to the   ( ). 

 The incident came to light when the teachers of the government colleges in   district found a large number of answer scripts missing a couple of days ago when they approached the university for an explanation for not receiving the answer scripts for evaluation. Vice-chancellor of the university, K Murugan, however, said no answer script was missing. He declined to comment further.
 
 Secretary of Zone III of AUT P Santhi alleged that nearly one lakh answer scripts of various subjects, received from around 90 non-autonomous colleges, have gone missing from the university. “Nearly 1 lakh students of the colleges affiliated to Thiruvalluvar University appeared for Tamil examination. Seven evaluation centres received around 65,000 answer scripts and the remaining are missing,” said Santhi, who led a demonstration on Thursday demanding the intervention of the Tamil Nadu government, and stern action against the “lackadaisical” approach of the examination controller and the varsity administration.
 
 Apart from this, nearly 40,000 answer scripts of English (UG) paper and 15,000 answer scripts of English (PG) have also gone missing, she said. “The seven evaluation centres have received only around 60,000 answer scripts for B A English whereas close to one lakh students appeared for the examination. Similarly, 26,000 students have appeared for M A English paper, but the valuation centres have received only 11,000 papers,” she added.
 
 According to experts and chairman of the evaluation centres approved by the syndicate of the university, a minimum of 30,000 answer scripts of Tamil (UG), 7,000 papers of Mathematics (PG) and 10,000 papers of History (UG) are missing from the university. “We have received only 60% to 65% of the answer scripts from the university. When we approached them for an explanation, they said they have dispatched the answer scripts they received,” said D Vijayan, assistant professor of mathematics, Muthurangam Government Arts College, Vellore, and member of AUT.
 
 Members of AUT charged that they have also failed to convene the evaluation pre-board meeting for chairpersons of the evaluation centres. The meeting would be held as per the rules to establish uniformity in correction and marking pattern. 
 
 “The board would receive the list of a total number of answer scripts and examiners from the university and check the question papers and scheme of evaluation. The board will decide how it can provide marks to the students, if there are any questions out of syllabus. It is a very important procedure to be followed before evaluation,” said Santhi. 
 
 
