CHANDIGARH: Punjab   chief   attended the farm debt waiver function in Sangrur on Thursday, a day after he left the chief minister’s office in a huff after he was reportedly asked to leave his mobile phone outside. However, sources said Wednesday’s episode has underlined the alleged discontent among a section of party legislators over not getting an opportunity to raise their local issues, especially the charge that Akalis still held sway over the police.

 Sources said more than being perturbed over being asked to deposit his phone at the CM’s office, Jakhar and the group of MLAs accompanying him, were upset at not being able to get an audience with the chief minister to demand the transfers of police officers allegedly aligned with the SAD-BJP.
 
 So while a section of party legislators rallied behind Jakhar to demand changes in police postings, there is a feeling that Amarinder was trying to distance himself from the party cadre’s demand, even at the cost of antagonizing certain party leaders.
 
 “The issue still stands. The morale of the police is down and there is a feeling that police officers are being changed as per the Akalis’ wishes. In such a scenario, who will stand with the Congress workers? Depositing phone to meet the CM was not the issue at all as even senior officers were being asked to do the same,” said a party leader requesting anonymity.
 
 Meanwhile, there is also a feeling that the Congress should not go back to the traditional system where the local   decides the names of police officers and bureaucrats. “Capt Amarinder has reasons not to entertain such demands, though the MLAs look at the whole issue differently and feel that even after losing; the previous government is calling the shots. However, to openly demand a say in police postings is not seen as the right thing,” said a party leader.
 
 On Thursday too, Jakhar did not get an opportunity to meet Amarinder as the latter did not turn up at the farm debt waiver relief function. Earlier, some party legislator had come to Chandigarh on Tuesday along with Jakhar as the CM office had agreed to give them an appointment. However, it was cancelled and they were asked to turn up on Wednesday evening instead. Then again, the time was changed repeated and eventually, they had to leave without meeting Amarinder, added sources. Interestingly, in the past, Amarinder had made Jakhar attend meetings of senior bureaucrats, which had evoked sharp reactions from the opposition parties.
 
 Sources said Amarinder had tried to reach out to Jakhar through senior cabinet minister Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa. “On Wednesday evening, reports of Jakhar going incommunicado after he failed to raise the issues of the MLAs with the CM became a talking point. However, contrary to speculations that Jakhar had left for Delhi and will not attend the function in Sangrur, he was there. The issue also gave rise to speculations of the coterie surrounding the CM blocking the way of the MLAs,” said another leader.
 
