He made an impression with his debut film,  , playing a character who is more of a loser. And now,  , who has been winning awards for his performance, has signed his next, an action film that will have him pitted against Mysskin. In an exclusive interview to us, the actor reveals details about his new project, his entry in films, and the learnings from working on Taramani...

 
 Taramani was a long process — three-and-a-half to four years. That’s how the industry is functioning these days, and we cannot blame anyone for this. But the positive reactions after the release have made it all worthwhile. The film did well financially, too, and I have been getting awards (for Best Debut - Male), so I’m in a happy space.
 
 
 I started getting a lot of offers once I completed shooting Taramani, but I was being selective. A lot of new directors approached me, and even a National Award-winning director narrated a script, but I wanted to take time and choose my next carefully because I wanted my next to be as good as or even better than Taramani. From the script to the genre and character, I was looking for something very different from my debut as I was keen to avoid being typecast. I have found such a film now, a proper action script driven by emotions, and set in Chennai. I have signed it. 
 
 
 The director of this project is Arun Matheswaran. He has worked as an associate with Thiagarajan Kumararaja for Aaranya Kaandam, and had worked with Pushkar-Gayatri then. He was the director writer of Irudhi Suttru. I’ve known Arun for about a year. He was having this script for many years. It has gone to many stars and has finally landed with me, so I’m fortunate that way. Arun had first narrated a love story, but then he told me that I should do this script. I was hesitant because he had written it as a star film and I was unsure if it would suit me. He convinced me saying that anyone would suit this script and made me believe that I would be right for the role. It’s an action, so different from Taramani; in fact, among the many offers that I’ve received post Taramani, only a couple were action scripts. I wasn’t convinced with those, but I liked this one a lot.
 
 
 Mysskin sir is doing the antagonist’s role. He loved it and agreed to do it after the narration.   ma’am is doing a special role. Talks are on with other artistes. As for the crew, Darbuka Siva will be composing the music, while Shreyaas Krishna, who has shot Jil Jung Juk and Aval, will be handling the cinematography. 
 
 
 I’m born and brought up in Chennai. I did my MBBS in Ramachandra Medical College, but right from my first year in college, I wanted to be an actor. But when you are doing MBBS, it is extremely difficult to do another thing in parallel. And my family was totally against it. One of my friends,  , gave me the confidence and encouraged me to try after completing my degree. After finishing my internship, I applied for Anupam Kher’s acting school in Mumbai. I had to give an audition and Anupam Kher sir who was present selected me. I did an acting diploma course there. This was around 2010-11. After completing my course, I came back and started trying for chances here. At that time, I met Rajiv Menon sir, and he told me that he wasn’t doing any film then. He then said that he was starting an acting course in his institute, and I could enrol there as a team from Koothu-p-pattarai would be teaching. I decided to do that as well, because I could simultaneously try my luck in the industry. I almost got a project, but the director wasn’t sure, even though the producer was OK with me. And my family was pressuring me to do my masters, so I told them I’d do health care management in Manchester, UK. They were happy, thinking that I was out of my acting aspiration phase. During the time I was in the UK, the cancelled post-study visas, so I had to come back here and work. I was working as an executive operations manager in a top city hospital, when Ram sir, whom I had been in touch for some time, called me to say that he had a role for which he wanted me to audition. After the audition, he told me that I’d be playing the lead in his film. It’s only after that Andrea and then the producer came on board. It was a big dream-come-true for me to have got such a good start.
 
 
 Acting cannot be taught. There is no set principle or methodology. Right from Stanislavski and Strasberg, each one have their own approaches to the craft. The training in the acting schools is more about discovering yourself and in that way focusses on acting. I was a very reserved guy and wouldn't speak much on stage earlier. But I was able to explore and discover myself in Anupam Kher’s school. I opened up as a person, which is very important if you have to be an actor. In Rajiv Menon’s institute, it was more rooted — as it focussed on our traditional acting methods. 
 
 
 Working with Ram sir itself was an experience, like going to a university. When I began work on the film, I asked myself if there was any relation between what I’d learnt and what I was doing on set. The film was a huge learning curve as I learnt how to work in front of a crew. And Ram sir would give dialogues on the spot. There would be rough dialogues, but on the spot, he will improvise, so that was a very different experience, as I had to quickly adapt. But Ram sir is very clear about what kind of performance he wants — he would explain the scene and also its subtext — so that was very helpful. 
 
 
 
 
