BHOPAL:   are being challenged by another powerful   — the  . Though the two hunt in altogether different territories, shrinking water level in Ken river due to in scorching heat is leading to frequent face-offs between the two. 

 The lifeline of Panna, Ken flows almost 50km inside the national park and most animals depend on it to quench their thirst, said Vivek Jain, park director. During summer, the river shrinks and forms pools, some of which are very deep. The river has a large number of crocodiles, which crowd into these pools and fight for prey, he told TOI.
 
 Using the cover of rocks and stones, crocodiles ambush herbivores who come to drink from these pools, he said, adding that neelgai and sambhar are their favourites. Tigers, too, lie in wait near these pools to hunt the same herbivores, bringing them in direct confrontation with crocodiles.
 
 Principal chief conservator of forests (Wildlife) Jitendra Agrawal told TOI, “Tiger-crocodile encounter is very common during summer. Our staff have witnessed many fights between cubs of T-1 and crocodiles.”
 
 T1 is the tigress moved from Bandhavgarh to Panna after it lost all its tigers in 2009. Another tigress, T2, was moved from Kanha, so were two tigers. The translocation did wonders as the tiger count in Panna has gone up to 30 in less than a decade.
 
 The drought in Bundelkhand has badly affected Ken river this year. Hemant Yadav, who was posted till recently as Panna assistant director, was witness to a famous face off in May 2017 between tigress P141 and a crocodile near Bhoradev point, the river patch with a deep water pool. A wild life lover took a photo in which the tigress is seen facing off with a crocodile, which had stolen her kill. 
 
 “When the tigress realized that the crocodile had dragged the kill into the water, she immediately jumped in and looked into the eyes of the other predator. However, she soon realized that it was dangerous to remain in water, where crocodile rules and went away,” Yadav, who now works with the territorial forest division in Panna, said.
 
 
