KOLKATA: Two major stakeholders of the rural polls - the state election commission and the state government - have admitted in their reports on security arrangement that they do not have adequate forces to conduct the poll on a day. This came nine days ahead of the announced poll day on May 14. 

 Both the agencies are looking up to the division bench of the   to frame the security guidelines on May 8 that will leave less than a week for the state election commission to meet the deficit.
 
 Officials having experience of conducting elections keep their fingers crossed over mobilising forces from other states or even the Centre within such a short time and deploying them effectively. "Even if forces reach the state later next week, there will be little time for area domination, or conducting route march in the high-sensitive zones. They can, at best, be used on the poll day. The state has written to four or five states but there has been no response. The entire exercise may turn out to be futile despite the high court giving a wake-up call to the commission," a retired election official said.
 
 The state, in its last report to the SEC, made amends to its initial plan of providing armed personnel for polling premises. It has now proposed to provide one armed personnel for each polling booth, taking into consideration that there is going to be no election in 19,121 of the 58,467 booths. But it can't provide more than two armed personnel on 7,295 premises that have more than one polling booth. This part of the state plan is at variance with the commission's proposal for increasing armed forces at multiple-booth premises, based on the number of booths. The state proposes to provide at least one company of armed forces for the 330 blocks where polls are being held. Going by the state scheme, the total requirement of forces is 73,000 when it has 48,000 (armed and unarmed) forces. They include 1.1 lakh home guards and civic volunteers.
 
 Nabanna senior officials said the state had all the good intention to hold the elections peacefully. "The government has written to some states, seeking additional forces but the response is awaited. We have nothing to hide from court. The court will now take a call on the security arrangements and the poll date," a state official said.
 
 The SEC, on the other hand, is yet to take a proactive role when the division bench observed the commission has the immunity to conduct the polls. SEC sources said state election commissioner Amarendra Singh did not have plans to call on governor Keshari Nath Tripathi for extra forces, as laid down in Article 243K of Constitution. 
 
 
