THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Repeating his allegations of foul play behind ‘selection’ of IFTAS (Indian Financial Technology and Allied Services) for implementing core banking solutions ( ) in primary cooperative banks in the state, senior   V D   has demanded a vigilance inquiry into the ‘anomalies in government procedures’ taken so far in this connection.

 
 Asserting that IFTAS was a paper company sans own solutions and technical competence, and being projected as an RBI subsidiary to help some private players behind to commit financial fraud, Satheesan told the assembly on Monday that ‘the government is still in negotiations with the company’.
 
 Though the project is now being estimated at Rs 60 crore instead of Rs 160 crore (after opposition raised its allegations in the assembly last week), the recurring cost for the next three years will be around Rs 300 crore, he said.
 
 In the absence of cooperation minister Kadakampally Surendran, finance minister T M Thomas   said the government has not yet issued any order awarding the work to IFTAS or reached any agreement with the company.
 
 “The government, through an order, has only constituted a committee with IT secretary as chairman and registrar of cooperative societies as convener to consider the proposal submitted by IFTAS and to hold a discussion with the company on the proposed software’s technical competence, cost, recurring cost and time required for installation,” Isaac said.
 
 
 Unsatisfied with the minister’s reply, Satheesan said the government had been negotiating with IFTAS for the past one year, even after learning that the company doesn’t have an own non-banking module (required for 90% of the primary cooperatives). “The government has not prepared an RFP (request for proposal) or invited EoI (expression of interest) to facilitate competitive tendering. Competence has to be ensured even if the proposal comes directly from the RBI,” the Congress MLA said.
 
 
 Satheesan pointed out that there was also an undue hurry now in awarding the work to IFTAS. “The primary cooperatives will become business kiosks of the proposed   soon, and will have to change their software again. In fact, there’s no need for a change of software or CBS at this juncture,” he added. On the earlier clarification made by chief minister   last week citing an RBI directive recommending IFTAS, Satheesan said the particular directive was for installation of CBS in urban cooperative banks and not for the entire primary cooperative banks.
 
