SECUNDERABAD: Nearly a month after the   barred local youth from practising football at the famous   ground, saying the grounds would be henceforth used for military training alone, the Army on Friday allowed budding sportsmen to come back to the area.

 Desperate pleas by local residents to allow budding players to practice at the ground were widely reported in these columns, following which the   ( ) chief executive officer, SVR   sent an official communiqué to local military authorities, requesting them to reopen the football ground at Trimulgherry for sporting activity.
 
 Players on Friday were seen practising spot kicks and the usual pre-match drills as curious onlookers gathered to watch young boys and girls in colourful clothing at the ground.
 
 The Army personnel have stopped training, and carrying out any other physical exercises on the ground spread over two acres.
 
 “We are practising football and cricket on the ground. It seems the Army lifted restrictions to play sports on the ground. We are very happy that after nearly a month we entered into premises of the football ground,” a player said.
 
 About a month ago, the football ground was shut by the local Army and they restricted the local players from playing and practising there, as the football ground premises comes under A 1-defence land and they said it would be used for training personnel only.
 
 The local players, angry about the Army’s decision, approached the local military authorities and sought permission for players as the football ground was used by local players for past four decades.
 
 Experts say the anger was justified as many local players who practised at the ground, played national and international sports, and got jobs in state and central government under sports quota. A signature campaign was also launched by the locals and activists of ‘Save Bison Polo Ground’ demanding that the ground be reopened.
 
 However, the Army has not remove the signboard which declares that the ground is a military training area.
 
