MANALI: The Border Roads Organization (BRO) is all set to start snow clearing operation on the strategically important   from March 1. The highway, which is covered with thin patches of snow, may open in record time.

 Every year the BRO starts snow clearing operations in late March. Generally, the highway till   and further   is opened in May and is thereafter thrown open to traffic by May end or early June. It was in 1999, 2000 and 2001 when the region along highway had very less snow and   highway was opened in April. Nearly 17 years after, this year may repeat the history and highway may be opened in April.
 
 Rohtang and Baralacha passes and higher areas are covered with a thin layer of snow. Both passes, which generally remain covered with 20 to 30ft of snow in February, have less than 5ft of snow. Amazingly, the region has not witnessed any major avalanche and landslide and the road is not severely damaged. If hills do not get heavy snowfall, it will affect tourism and agriculture but will bring some relief to people of   in emergency by reconnecting them by road.
 
 The 38 Border   commander, Col A K Awasthi, said though higher areas were still covered with a thin layer of snow but snowfall could occur any time till April. “We cannot predict what will be the condition till March. Still, we shall clear snow on a war footing and try to resume traffic as soon as possible. We have noticed heavy snowfall in February and March many times. Only time will tell what will be the road conditions. If high walls of snow, ice, avalanches and blizzards will not stop our way, we shall clear snow well within time.”
 
 As the temperature is not favourable, the BRO has stopped its cementing works. According to Awasthi, once temperature becomes favourable, they will start several works simultaneously. The BRO is concentrating on widening of the highway, building new bridges, retaining breast walls and blacktopping. It will also construct the highway beyond Shinkula towards Zanskar valley of  . If snow continues to deceive mountains, Manali-Keylong highway is expected to open in April and Manali-Leh highway by early May.
 
 
