CHENNAI: He has been practising medicine for more than a decade at his clinic, but Karur-based Jayapandi Karuppusamy neither had a valid medical degree nor a licence, the state medical council found on Thursday, when he applied for a permanent licence with a “fancy” number. Council registrar in-charge Dr S Dhalapathy filed a complaint with the Arumbakkam police against Karuppusamy. “Our preliminary investigation shows that he has not studied medicine. He has faked a temporary registration certificate and has been practising medicine,” said Dr Dhalapathy. Investigation by   showed that Karuppusamy also holds a registration certificate (28298) issued by the Tamil Nadu Pharmacy Council, Chennai, valid until February 25, 2021. As if this wasn’t enough, his name was published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette supplement in March 2014 enrolling him in the register of the National Board of Alternative Medicine as registered Alternative Medical Practitoner by the National Board of Alternative Medicine, with registration number 02925. Directorate of Medical Services (DMS) officials say alternative medicine and the board are illegal. “The state recognises degrees approved by the Medical Council of India or Central Council of Indian Medicine or AYUSH ministry. This course or the board is illegal,” said director of medical services Dr M R Enbasekaran. In October 2017, DMS joint director (Karur) Dr M Vijayakumar had sealed Karuppusamy’s clinic in Karur for practising without valid licence, but did not file a case of quackery. “We wrote to the state medical council and Annamalai University. While council said the temporary registration was fake, we received a letter from the university stating he studied MBBS,” he said. “I completed all pharmacy, alternative medicine and MBBS courses. I did not bother to register with the medical council because I was an iron scrap dealer. I had a medical shop. Since I own a clinic now, health officials are insisting I have a licence to continue practice. But all my degrees are valid,” Karuppasamy told TOI. “My university filed the temporary registration for me.” On Thursday, the medical council found that signatures on the letter sent to the directorate did not tally with the one they received from Karuppasamy. “We called the university to confirm our letter. That’s when we found that the letter sent to the directorate was also fake,” said Dr Enbasekaran. In order to get himself a valid registration, Karuppusamy on March 8 applied to the council for a permanent registration number along with documents, including a medical degree certificate from Annamalai University and a temporary registration (438655/2006) valid from November 25, 2006 to November 26, 2007. “People at our office instantly recognised it because this was not the first time we are seeing this certificate,” said council president Dr K Senthil.