Kayo Chingonyi, a Zambian-born British poet, won the   International   for his debut collection 
 .

 The Swansea University International Dylan Thomas prize is awarded annualy for the best literary work in English by an author aged 39 or under. There is an age limit because the beloved Welsh poet died when he was 39.
 
 The Prize is a registered charity. Launched in 2006, the award aims at "encouraging raw creative talent worldwide". The winner is awarded £30,000.
 
 This year the award went to   for his debut book on poetry, 
 . The poet was born in Zambia and moved to the UK when six years old. 
  means initiation in the Luvale language and the book is about the the rites of passage which boys go through to become a man from the Lovale people of Zambia and Angola, as well as rites for young Londoners.
 
 Dai Smith, Chair of judges, praised the poet, saying he had “original and distinctive voice”, calling the collection “mature and moving”.
 
 Chaired by Professor Dai Smith CBE, this year’s judging panel also featured   Author, Namita Gokhale; winner of the inaugural International Dylan Thomas Prize novelist and playwright, Rachel Trezise; poet, translator, and scholar, Professor Kurt Heinzelman; and author and founder of London Short Story Festival,  .
 
 “Unlike many other books by immigrant writers discussing memories of the homeland and the sensations of a new country, Kayo’s volume is not a lamentation for what he imagines has been lost, but it’s a new kind of celebration, albeit a vexed one, of the joys of living in a new country,” said judge Kurt Heinzelman. “For me, the particular pleasure of this volume is that the particulars of his experience are so emotionally various and culturally diverse, and that the whole collection is even more beautiful than the sum of its parts.”
 
 The award was presented in a ceremony held at Swansea University. The award was announced by Michael Sheen, Swansea University fellow and a BAFTA-award winning actor and Dylan Thomas’ granddaughter Hannah Ellis.
 
 “I’d like to congratulate Kayo Chingonyi for winning the 10th Swansea University International Dylan Thomas Prize, for his debut collection of poetry 
 , a stunning and hugely culturally relevant collection of poems that keenly explore black culture, masculinity and identity in Britain today. Having grown up near Swansea, I feel a very strong connection with Wales’ cultural heritage, and it is truly an honour for me to present an award that brings the best and most exciting young literary talent from around the world to Wales," said Michael Sheen. 
 
 He continued, "I know first-hand how essential exposure to the written word can be for young minds, and I admire the Dylan Thomas Prize for continuing Thomas’ incredible literary legacy and inspiring the next generation of writers and creators from Wales and beyond. With this year marking the 10th anniversary of the prize, as well as the 65th anniversary of Thomas’ death, there is no better time to celebrate Dylan’s legacy and the wonder of the written word.”
 
 This year's shortlist included 
  by Sally Rooney and 
 by Gabriel Tallent, 
  by Emily Ruskovich, 
 by Carmen Maria and 
  by Gwendoline Riley.
 
 
