Nagpur: The MEd student who alleged sexual harassment by dean of interdisciplinary studies Rajashree Vaishnav and former Pro-VC Gaurishankaer Parasher rushed to the Nagpur University (NU) to lodge a written complaint of the incident while Parasher produced documentary evidence to prove his innocence in the case on Tuesday. A day before, NU had clarified that since it had never received any complaint from 28-year-old student regarding alleged harassment, it wouldn’t take any action. In her complaint addressed to the pro-vice chancellor, the complainant said she had come to meet the vice-chancellor on September 11, 2017, to inform him about the March 2016 incident when Parasher had allegedly made undue advances towards her in Vaishnav’s cabin. She didn’t specify the exact date of the month. Parasher submitted before the Ambazari police he was not present in the city on March 20, 2017, the date of alleged incident mentioned in FIR.  To support his claim, Parasher produced air tickets and a certificate issued by Dakshina Bharat Hindi Prachar Sabha, Madras. According to these, Parasher had flown out of Nagpur on March 16, 2017, at 9.20am and reached Goa via Mumbai the same day at 12.35pm. He had attended a workshop conducted by the Sabha’s Dharwad centre between March 16 and 20. Later, he had gone to Pune from Goa on March 20. Trashing the allegations levelled in FIR, Parasher demanded the cops dispose of the case within three days or he would move the court to seek justice. On the other hand, the survivor sought footage of CCTV system installed outside the VC’s cabin. “I had gone to complain about the March 2016 incident to the VC on September 11, 2017. Initially, he heard me and said an inquiry would be held against Vaishnav. But all of a sudden he asked his guards to drive me out. In February too, I had gone to find out about the probe but didn’t get any satisfactory reply. Finally, on March 3, I was compelled to lodge a police complaint,” the letter to NU reads. According to the statement given to police by the complainant, a mother of three, Vaishnav had asked her to ‘gratify’ Parasher, to help her get good marks. Vaishnav was appointed head of department at NU’s PG department of education at Law College Square and Parasher used to allegedly visit Vaishnav.