CHANDIGARH: Almost a month after the police had registered cases pertaining to the alleged scam in recruitment of around 2,000 posts of drivers in the   Roadways, the   and Haryana high court has restrained the selection agency   ( ) from finalizing the list.

 “The respondents are directed to produce in court video recordings of the tests conducted, with an affidavit to be filed by the secretary of the HSSC after viewing each video recording, as to whether the contentions raised by the petitioners in these petitions, are at least prima facie made out or not. In the meanwhile, the selections shall not be finalized,” HC has ordered.
 
 Justice   passed these orders while hearing a large number of petitions filed by some candidates alleging massive irregularities in conducting the driving proficiency test conducted by the selection agency at various parts of the state in the selection process for appointment of drivers in the Haryana Roadways. The orders were released on Wednesday.
 
 While adjourning the matter for January 23 for further hearing, the HC has also asked the state government as well as the HSSC to file reply on the issue. The declaration of final result of the selection process, however, shall remain stayed till further orders.
 
 The HSSC had advertised 2,038 posts of drivers in the state roadways department and a written examination was conducted by the commission in the first phase of selection process. In November 2017, the commission had declared the result of written examination and shortlisted around 10,000 candidates for a driving proficiency test. Considering the large number of candidates, the driving cum proficiency test was conducted recently at various workshops of the state roadways department across the state for further shortlisting of candidates.
 
 However, during the proficiency test, some complaints were received regarding clearing of examination by roadways staff at various places on payments of graft by roadways employees. The state vigilance bureau had also questioned a general manager who was holding the charge of   depot of roadways in this regard. The matter is presently under investigation.
 
 
