TUTICORIN: Hundreds of people thronged Sahaya Matha Church at Lions Town in the city on Sunday morning to attend the funeral of J Snowlin, 17, who was killed in the police firing during the anti-Sterlite protest in Tuticorin on May 22. Hers was the 7th body to be handed over to the family after performing re-postmortem as directed by the Madras high court. The ardent protester suffered a bullet injury in her mouth.

 The body was handed over to her family at the Thoothukudi Medical College and Hospital amidst tight police security, as there have been allegations that the girl was targeted as she was leading the protest and raising her voice against the copper plant. The district administration and the police officials said that they are waiting for the court’s direction (on June 6) to conduct postmortem on the remaining six bodies.
 
 Meanwhile, the five-member National Human Rights Commission ( ) started its formal inquiry by meeting people who were directly affected by the police firing. Initially the team planned to visit the families of the deceased at their house, but later the venue was shifted to the Tuticorin Corporation’s north zone office, where the relatives were asked to appear for the inquiry.
 
 Summonses were sent to the concerned persons through revenue officials from Saturday night. Two of the members, Bhubhul P Prasad and Rajvir Singh, met people at the zonal office, beginning with Supreme Court lawyer A Rajarajan on whose case before the Delhi High Court the NHRC team has come to Tuticorin. He gave his statement in writing before putting forward three requests to them.
 
 Members of the team then met families of eight of the victims who were killed in the firing. Members of five other families – Maniraj, Antony Selvaraj, Jayaraman, Gladston and Snowlin – did not turn up for the inquiry till Sunday evening. Meanwhile, three other members, Nithin Kumar, Arun Tyagi and Lal Bahar, visited the injured at the Thoothukudi Medical College and Hospital.
 
 
