AHMEDABAD: The   in Ahmedabad increased by nearly nine lakh between 2015 and 2017, but   that eats   from vehicles have fallen by 20 sq km in 2017, compared to 2015.

 The report of the forest survey of India 2017 revealed that forest cover in Ahmedabad was 129 sq km which was 149 sq km in 2015. Interestingly, the state capital Gandhinagar has doubled its forest cover in two years. The report states that forest cover in Gandhinagar, which was 41 sq km, increased to 52 sq km and this was because the area of the state capital increased from 649 sq km to 2,140 sq km.
 
 Experts feel that forest cover may had fallen because of the change in the geographical area of Ahmedabad. 
 
 In 2015, the geographical area of Ahmedabad was 8,707 sq km which was reduced to 8,107 sq km. The fall geographical area of Ahmedabad may be because certain portion of the district may have been added in Gandhinagar district where the geographical area which was 649 sq km has increased to 2,140 sq km.
 
 Officials said the loss of Ahmedabad was gain for Gandhinagar. H S Singh said that the capital district cannot be gaining an area of 51 sq km in two years. This was because some taluka earlier may have been included in Gandhinagar but the FSI report may not have taken the same into consideration and hence in 2017 the mistake would have been rectified.
 
 
  
 
 Similarly, there was a fall of about 55 km in Mehsana and certain green pockets from Mehsana may have been added in the Gandhinagar district. The officer said that what is worrying is that Gandhinagar which is considered to be the greenest city of Gujarat was fast losing its tag to development. The district which once had over 140 sq km forest cover is now just 92 sq km.
 
 Officials said that the area between Chandkheda and Gandhinagar which was once a green patch is now getting replaced with housing societies and institutes. Moreover, in Ahmedabad the area towards Vastral, Nikol and Ghuma among others will also see rapid development, as a result the city was losing its green cover.
 
 Officials said that even in Ahmedabad city there is no serious effort being made to increase tree cover. In the past, AMC has decided to go in for a massive plantation drive to increase the tree cover, but in the name of the green, the AMC distributed Tulsi and other garden saplings which do not contribute to the green cover.
 
 
