MANGALURU: Adoption of corporate wellness program can save  . income up to US$ 20 billion by 2018 through a reduction in absenteeism rate by 1% and at the same time improve chronic and lifestyle diseases of corporates and employees, according to the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India ( ) latest paper. 

 
 The chamber analysis further reveals that on an average for every rupee being spent on employee wellness programme, employers get Rs 132.33 as a saving on absenteeism cost and Rs 6.62 back as reduced health care costs.
  
 These findings are condensed in a paper based on the paper ‘Corporate Wellness Programme: Benefits to Organisation and Economy” covered sectors like engineering,  ,  , IT/ITeS, Infrastructure, Market Research/KPO, Media and Real Estate.
 
 
 The paper also found that 83% of respondents are willing to contribute a percentage of their salary in company sponsored wellness program; however 17 per cent are not at all willing to participate in it, adds the paper.
 
 
 On impact of wellness program to corporate employees across sector, the paper disclosed that among IT/ITeS sector employees, 93% feel that company sponsored wellness program act as a motivating factor for them. However 7% feel depressed about the healthcare program.
 
 
 About 60% employees engaged in media sector consider wellness program as a motivating factor, whereas remaining 40% feel that it acts as a depressing factor. However, in case of FMCG, 75% of employees feel that it act as a motivating factor, however, 25% consider it as a depressing factor. In financial sector, 84% of employees favor the wellness program while 16% of respondents not interested to participate in these kind of programs, noted the paper.
 
 
 In rest of sectors 100% of employees consider company sponsored wellness program act as a motivating factor for them.
 
 
 The ASSOCHAM observed that out of top 500 Indian companies that are working towards   initiatives, offer healthcare programs and facilities in nearby areas where their factory outlets are located and many are serving in rural blocks/districts/village. But ironically 42% of them ignore employee health care as they do not offer any wellness program to them.
 
 
 However, the chamber noticed that despite the availability of preventive health care benefits through medical plans, most of the respondents do not take advantage for getting routine health care examination. As some are not aware about benefits that exist and some hesitate to ask. Almost 76% of employees deny accepting that "it"- heart disease, cancer, diabetes, or stroke can happen to them.
 
 
 About 48% of respondents informed that their organization offer corporate wellness program. Out of which 62% of the employees feel that the present wellness program run by their organization needs improvement.
 
 
 However, out of the 52% of the employees revealed that their company do not run any wellness program, 51% of the survey respondents say if in future their company initiates any employee wellness program they would surely participate in it.
 
 
