When a truck bearing the words ‘Animal Catching Vehicle’ pulled up outside Venkatapuram resident Bindu Gopakumar’s house recently, she was in for a rude shock. A few men got down from the truck and walked up to her to announce: ‘We are here to take your dog away, we have received complaints about the dog.’ 
‘What do you mean?’ she shot back, flummoxed. In response, the men thrust a notice dated February 9, 2018, into her hands, it read: ‘Our office received complaints against you for illegally maintaining a dog in your premises. You are called upon to shift the dog from the residential area and hand over the same to   shelter house at Jeedimetla.’
 
 
 
 It was for the first time since settling down in Hyderabad after her husband retired from the army, that she heard that pet dogs need to be registered with the GHMC. “I was surprised when they asked me if my dog was registered. I have had Vihaan for five years and never did I know that we had to get him registered. He has been vaccinated and is a well-mannered dog,” she says adding, “I have been living here for a year and nobody had a problem. I’ve raised him like my own son. Nobody ever had any problem with him all this while.”
 Apparently, the dog’s whimpering and barking had disturbed the neighbours, one of whom went ahead and complained to the GHMC to take action. “Either get your dog registered in four days or shift him out,” warned the men before leaving, says Bindu.
 
 
 Just in case you are wondering if it is indeed mandatory to get your pets registered, here is some news for you. According to guidelines drawn by GHMC veterinary section, all pet dogs in the city need to be registered with the municipality to keep a tab on them. “It is good if people give the details as we can find and control any case of illegal breeding and even find missing dogs with the information given and contain diseases like rabies,” explains Venkateshwara Reddy, Chief Veterinary officer with GHMC. Though mandatory, the subject of ‘registration’ remains largely unknown to pet parents in the city. When asked if a pet dog can be forcefully evicted or its owners threatened, the official said they rarely had such extreme cases.
 
 
 
 Apparently, Bindu, like many other pet owners, never had an inkling about this rule. However, when Bindu tried to get Vihaan registered, the officer allegedly refused as a complaint has been filed against him for being a nuisance. “four days later, the men came back and asked why my dog was still there? They did not stop at that. In fact they suggested I sedate the dog to prevent it from barking,” she says, adding, “Even a small overdose can leave it paralysed. Why should I not exercise my fundamental right to keep my dog in my home just because it barked for two days because he was ill?” Bindu believes that the entire GHMC machinery is behind her dog because of a senior retired government official with a history of abusing dogs. “They were receiving WhatsApp messages from a contact that read ‘chief secretary’. I don’t know who was ordering them to do this, but it’s really sad that government officials are pulling strings to harass innocent citizens,” she says adding, “I was forced to write another letter seeking 24 hours to shift my dog. The GHMC dog catching van came again a day later. I fail to understand why my Vihaan is being targeted when so many stray dogs are roaming free on the streets.” 
 
 
 
 The GHMC officials maintain that no protocol was breached in terms of taking action. “One of the neighbours has persistently been complaining, so we had to orally inform the dog owner. However, despite our oral notice, no action was taken to control the barking, so we issued a written notice,” says Goverdhan Reddy, Veterinary assistant director, North Zone. However, when asked if the complainant was a former senior government official, which propelled such extreme action from municipality’s end, they denied the same and refused to disclose details about the complainant. “We are trying to build an understanding between the two groups. We know that the dog is unwell, so we suggested measures to control its pain and reduce the barking,” said Goverdhan.
 
 
 The big question here is, can the GHMC forcefully take your pet away if they deem it necessary? legally speaking, the answer is ‘yes!’. But animal rights activists contend that the law is in contravention of the guidelines of Animal Welfare Board (AWB). “The AWB has specified that one can’t make any overarching rules about pets. For example, when colonies decide to ban pets, it’s wrong as it’s not permitted by AWB. But since local municipalities draw their own rules, those pertaining to checks on anything that causes public nuisance can put pet dogs in a position of risk when a locality considers them as a nuisance,” explains Pravallika, an animal rights activist. 
 
 
 
 Advocate and animal rescuer Vijaya Devi thinks that Bindu can seek legal recourse. “Often GHMC chooses to selectively react only when the kith and kin of a prominent person raises an alert, rest of the time the welfare of animals is neglected. A dog will bark, it can’t mew. In this case, the lady must approach the High Court and get a stay order. It’s her fundamental right to keep a dog and if it isn’t biting anybody then they can’t forcefully take it away because it barked near a prominent person’s house,” says Vijaya, who herself obtained a stay order a few years ago when GHMC tried to evict rescued stray dogs from her home.
 Well, whether GHMC will forcefully evict Vihaan is something that only time will tell. But the moral of the story is simple: If you have a pet, you might just be better off getting it registered. 
 
 
