CAPE TOWN: With a defining win over India in the second T20 at the SuperSport Park in Centurion on Wednesday night, South Africa have kept the three-match series alive, so the ‘final’ in Cape Town will be a contest both teams will look forward to.

 
 “It is an interesting series again. It will be a jam-packed stadium in Cape Town and I think we are looking forward to a good game there. South Africa played really well (on Wednesday), so it’s good to be 1-1. We’ll try and improve our game to win the series,” said  , whose 48-ball 79 allowed India to post a formidable target on the board before the dangerous   and skipper   turned it South Africa’s way. Klaasen’s 30-ball 69 ended up being crucial to South Africa’s win.
 
 India’s middle-order batsman Manish Pandey will have an idea of Klaasen’s capabilities with the bat. Pandey was part of an India ‘A’ squad that visited here two years ago and Klaasen happened to be part of the opposition.
 
 “It’s been two years now. He got a hundred against us. It didn’t really surprise me today (Klaasen’s knock) because I have seen his hundred before and in the ODIs also, he got a fair bit. This is the way he batted in the ‘A’ series too,” said Pandey. Klaasen dismissing Yazuvendra Chahal with some big hits over the fence came as a relief for a side that was struggling to find its feet against wrist spin.
 
 More than just a win and staying alive, the knock should help South Africa get rid of the demons that had occupied their minds when playing wrist spin during the ODIs and the first T20I.
 
 “It wasn’t planned,” says Klaasen about the way he confronted Chahal. “The way the (India) seamers bowled, the cutters, they’ve got very, very good skills. I just fancied my chances more against the leggie, had more options against him, so when I got the first two boundaries, I thought this is the over I got to target,” he said. This knock, coming at his home ground in Centurion, will remain more special than the ‘Pink Day’ walloping he handed India, said Klaasen.
 
 Alongside JP Duminy, who he credits for being the “key factor” that helped him play his own innings, Klaasen ensured South Africa were always in the game where Duckworth-Lewis calculations were concerned.
 
