Senior BJP leader and Union transport minister   does not leave a single opportunity to take on the   bureaucracy, particularly IAS officers in Mantralaya. In the presence of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, Gadkari disclosed that   bureaucrats are the main hurdles in the process of development due to their “negative mindset”. 

 Gadkari said proposals pertaining to crucial projects are gathering dust in Mantralaya and many bureaucrats write negative remarks against projects. Gadkari congratulated Fadnavis and Bawankule for approving Rs 89 crore for Nagpur Police Bhavan. Gadkari said there was inordinate delay in implementation of key projects due to red tape and indifferent attitude of the bureaucrats. This is not for the first time Gadkari has made stringent remarks against the Mantralaya bureaucrats, but in the past too he had come down heavily on the state bureaucracy’s casual approach. 
 
 A few months ago, Gadkari had launched a scathing attack against the Nagpur Municipal Corporation bureaucrats for their failure to clear a vegetable market outside his Mahal residence. Subsequently, Gadkari has shifted his residence in the western part of the city. In Jalna, the home town of state BJP chief Raosaheb Danve, Gadkari had referred to rampant corruption in the public works department. At a function in Government Medical College, Nagpur, the BJP veteran had spoken on the state of affairs in the medical education department led by senior BJP leader Girish Mahajan. Recently, Gadkari had taken on MNS chief Raj Thackeray over his critical remarks on the ongoing projects. Gadkari sent the entire list of projects undertaken by the transport ministry after he took over the reins four years ago. Gadkari has raised a valid point, once the state legislature has passed the budget, with a specific provision for each project there is no need for the department concerned to resubmit the proposal to the finance department for approval. “Drastic changes will have to be brought to end red-tape. Once a proposal is approved, then the funds should be released directly to the department concerned, instead of re-routing the file through the finance department,” said a former chief secretary. Fadnavis will have to step in to bring about changes in the rules of business.
 
 
