KOCHI: Officials with district administration and major irrigation department have said that the preliminary construction works of the much-delayed geotube seawalls along   coast will begin within few months. 

 
 Fisheries minister J Mercykutty Amma will inaugurate the works on May 25 at an event to be held at Velankanni - Maruvakkad Bazaar stretch.
 
 Geotube seawalls will be built at Velankanni Bazaar, Companypady, Vachakkal and Puthenthode Fishing Gap, said an official with irrigation department.
 
 "We have awarded the contract. However, it would take time to resume the construction in full swing as we don't have adequate amount of material for building the seawalls. If monsoon intensifies, it would again delay the construction. Our priority is to complete the construction of seawalls as soon as possible," said T U  , executive engineer, irrigation department.
 
 The district administration and state government decided to construct the seawalls to prevent sea erosion at Chellanam coast. The state government had sanctioned Rs 8 crore in this regard. 
 
 "We cannot take the promises offered by the officials at face value due to bitter experiences in the past," said  , a resident.
 
 Dalfin T A, a member of Chellanam Theeradesha Vikasana Samithi said there is a rule that from May 15 to August 15, construction activities are banned in the coastal regions. "Once the monsoon begins, we don't think anything fruitful will happen in this regard," said Dalfin.
 
 "Seawalls are required at Velankanni Bazaar (300 metres), Companypady (300 metres), Vachakkal (100 metres), and Puthenthode Fishing Gap (110 metres)," he added.
 
 "Sea erosion continues to threaten our lives. Once the monsoon intensifies there will be sea incursion and erosion. It would be raining miseries for us. We want an immediate solution in this regard," said  , a resident of Chellanam.
 
 Meanwhile, Kochi MLA K J Maxi said that the construction of the seawalls will begin after the formal inauguration.
 
