CHENNAI: A few residents of   village near   on Wednesday night lynched a man who they found had broken into a house, the police said. The man, who is thought to have had an accomplice, is yet to be identified. 

 The village, off busy GST Road, is located beneath a hill in Kancheepuram district and is around 60km from Chennai.
 
 Around 11.30pm, police said, several residents, most of them daily-wage workers, were chatting outside the house of one of them when they heard noises from a house owned by Babu. The 40-year-old they knew was at the   in  , for tuberculosis treatment, with his wife and that his house was locked. They suspected something was amiss and rushed there. 
 
 They found the main door broken and a man rummaging inside a room, a police officer said. The villagers allegedly caught him in the act of stealing some valuables and rained blows on him when he managed to break free and began running away. The residents set out in hot pursuit and in a short while, the fleeing man fell into an open drain that he hadn’t noticed, the officer added, based on the statements taken from the villagers.
 
 He was pulled out and given another sound thrashing when he collapsed. A few passersby who noticed the incident called the control room and a team of the Chengalpet Taluk Police arrived. The man was taken to the government hospital where doctors declared him ‘brought dead’. “He had sustained injuries to the head,” said the officer.
 
 A case was registered under Section 174 CrPC (suspicious death). “Based on the outcome of the autopsy report on the cause of death, we will alter the sections case,” the officer added.
 
 This is the second instance of a burglary suspect being subjected to mob justice in Kancheepuram district in the past six months. On October 4, 2017, a man who broke into the farmhouse of a retired central government official near Sriperumbudur, around 50km from the city, died after he was beaten up the caretakers of the house and others in the village.
 
 
