After anxiously waiting to announce the release date of ‘Padmaavat’, the film’s makers earlier this week officially announced that the movie will hit the theatres on February 25. But their troubles were far from over as its release was banned by the governments of four states — Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana. However, yesterday, the makers heaved a sigh of relief when the Supreme Court stayed the ban imposed on the Deepika Padukone-Ranveer Singh-Shahid Kapoor-starrer, directed by Sanjay Leela Bhansali. The court’s order said, “We direct that there shall be a stay of operation on the notification and orders issued and we also restrain other states from issuing such notifications or orders in this matter.”
 
 A bench of Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra and Justices AM Khanwilkar and DY Chandrachud observed that the film has been cleared by the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) with a U/A certificate for an all-Indian screening, after considering the provisions of the Cinematograph Act, which prohibits scenes that denigrate women. Bhansali’s legal counsel Harish Salve cited the 2011 judgment of the SC that allowed the screening of Prakash Jha's controversial film ‘Aarakshan’ as an example.
  
 BT spoke to filmmakers whose labour of love has faced opposition from the fringe elements, which indirectly posed pressure on the respective state governments, leading to an unofficial ban on several movies. And they were unanimous in saying that every ban — whether official or unofficial — ultimately affects their film, months of hard work and their freedom of expression. 
  
 
 Until and unless the government doesn’t make a statement on this and make this into a non-practice, we will have to keep going to the courts. I hope the time comes when we don’t have to do that. I wish the makers (of ‘Padmaavat’) had done this earlier. I have been wasting my time and resources for a long time. In a country that easily takes offense and people taking offense scares the vote-bank politicos, this is and this will be a normal practice. So, either one takes the road of the law till the very end or give into what is expected of us. Either way, there is no point complaining. You fight or you give in…call it unfair but your rights won’t be given to you. You have to fight for them and stand up for them. 
  
 
 The film has been cleared by the CBFC. Of what value is it if the State cannot defend its own certificate? The filmmaker has been crying hoarse that there is nothing objectionable in the film that the CBFC has cleared. I’m sure it will become a huge success and I wish it all the best. The law of the land must apply with immediate effect so that a strong message is conveyed that the government has zero tolerance for violence or a call to violence against any citizen of this country.
 
 
 The Supreme Court decided in my favour a day before Indu Sarkar released. And this, when I was fighting three different battles: one political, one with the CBFC and one with a girl who claimed she was Sanjay Gandhi’s daughter. Imposing or demanding bans have been happening for years to filmmakers. The courts have cleared films that were also banned by the CBFC on numerous occasions. People are diverse, their thoughts and opinions differ and they all want their opinions to be given prominence. We have to be mentally prepared to face these challenges as filmmakers. I understand that and today, I welcome the decision of the SC. The state governments will now have to look into the law and order situation and ensure that the film gets a smooth release.
 
 
 I just feel that we keep wasting the Supreme Court’s time. The Chief Ministers of various states should know better than to ban films at their own whim and fancy. It’s about time someone told them that they are not above the law and that we should be left alone.
 
 
 
 I just feel that we keep wasting the Supreme Court’s time. The Chief Ministers of various states should know better than to ban films at their own whim and fancy. It’s about time someone told them that they are not above the law and that we should be left alone.
 
 
