JAIPUR: National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has taken to task   over the state police inaction in dealing with cases of   under the Prevention of Atrocities against SC/ST Act.

 He was asked to submit a report with action taken against errant police officials.
 
 The commission was hearing cases of atrocities against the SC/STs in a two-day camp began here at the OTC on Thursday.
 
 The single bench of commission chairman Justice H L Dattu summoned DGP during the hearing of a petition where a 30-year-old Dalit woman, a victim of gang-rape on July 22, was forced commit suicide at Booth Rathoran village in Barmer on September 12 after police failed to act against the accused despite the victim named the culprits.
 
 The woman was alone at home when the two men, whom she recognized, took turns to force themselves on her.
 
 Although the woman had named the two accused -Tansingh and Lakhsingh- in the FIR registered in July at Chohtan police station, no action was taken against the duo. With rising impunity, the two men allegedly began to threaten the family of the rape survivor, a mother of two.
 
 Unable to bear the constant threats and fearing for the safety of her family, the woman jumped into a water tank and drowned on September 12. Another FUR was registered for abetting suicide of the woman but the police failed arrest them.
 
 State coordinator of All India Dalit Mahila Adhikar Munch Suman Devatia who argued the case at the commission hearing said “the police after the women’s suicide arrested the accused in the next day (September 13) after public protest. That means the police was working in tandem with the accused.”
 
 It was informed that the husband of the women has become mentally sick and there is not means to support the family of two children.
 
 She said the district collector had not yet dispersed the compensation to the victim family saying that he had not received the FSL report.
 
 Commission chairman directed the DGP that he should sit with the office bearers of the Dalit Mahila Adhikar Munch and hear all such cases within a month failure to which he would be summoned to Delhi.
 
 
