

 
 
 Well, it would be wrong to say that administration has done nothing at all. In fact, to promote the Industrial Area, the administration between 1960s to late 1990s pampered the industrialists a lot by providing them benefits, which were not available in the neighbouring states, which included relaxation in norms, cheap power and low taxes. However, things started to change after year 2000. At present, the industries are not getting the benefits they used to get earlier.
 
 
 
 Running an industry in Chandigarh is fast becoming non-viable. This is largely due to faulty polices of the administration. Unlike neighbouring states, the industrialists are not getting any support from the authorities, which is hurting them. Over the years, the industrialists have been at loggerheads with the administration for implementation of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development (MSMED) Act, 2006, in toto, besides other long-pending demands, which include need-based changes, enhancing ease of doing business.
 
 
 
 This has happened due to failure on the part of the administration to allow need-based changes.
 
 Over the years, the industrialists have been urging the administration for allowing changes to meet their growing needs. They have been forced to make changes in their properties in violation of norms, for which a large number are facing notices. When the administration can allow needbased changes in residential and commercial categories, then why should the Industrial Area be left out? Administration has been refusing to alter age-old building bylaws.The industrialists are not allowed to cover the open courtyard on their plots, making them vulnerable to theft. A large number of theft cases have been reported in the industrial plots.
 
 
 
 Industrialists have been forced to make changes as the administration failed to bring in changes required with time. How can one operate in today’s time with age-old norms? Only industries in Chandigarh are facing such problems. Such things not heard about in other states.
 
 
 
 We are not supporting any industrialist who has committed any illegality. All we want is that, the administration should regularise the alterations made by the industrialists, which fall under the definition of need-based changes. Any constructions outside the plot area and storey-line should not be regularised.
 
 Do different industrial associations try to convince their members not to violate the laid-down norms?
 
 All the associations regularly interact with their members urging them not to commit blatant violations, which can never be regularised. There is no denying that some of the members have committed blatant violations against the laid-down norms. There is no support for such members.
 
 
 
 At present, the situation is very grim. A large number of units are either withdrawing their operations or are shifting their base from Chandigarh to   and nearby areas, thanks to rigid norms and negative attitude of the administration. As per the figures available with different associations, over 200 units have shifted their base out of Chandigarh and the number will continue to grow.
 
 
 
 The main reasons are faulty policies of the administration and negative attitude towards the industries. The polices were not changed with the time. In business, things do not remain the same forever. Had the policy decisions been taken according to the requirements of different industries, things would not have been so grim. The worrying part is that the administration is not willing to change. This is not a good sign. It is high time that the administration should change its attitude before its too late.
 
