CHANDIGARH: The decision of the Manohar Lal Khattar-led   government to allot around nine acres of prime land in   to Global Inspiration and   (GEIO) for construction of a research centre on Bhagwad Gita has come under the judicial scanner.

 A petition has been filed in the Punjab and Haryana high court, alleging massive irregularities in allotment of land to the society headed by Swami Giananand, a spiritual leader reportedly considered close to the state government.
 
 Hearing the petition, a division bench headed by Justice A K Mittal asked the petitioner to produce the constitution of Kurukshetra Development Board ( ), which had transferred the land to the society. The case would now come up for hearing on April 21.
 
 The main allegations leveled in the petition include, allotment at a throwaway price of Rs 5 lakh per acre, while similar land was leased out to another   for Rs 38 lakh per acre in 2013-14 and allotment contrary to the purpose for which it was acquired from the public, as it could be used only for organizing mela activities in the old heritage and Holy City.
 
 It has also been alleged that the state government never published any public intent and no claim was ever invited from the institutions/societies for construction of another research centre when Kurukshetra is already having a high-level Gita research institution. No applications were invited at any level by the government, thus the allotment itself cannot be said to be in public interest, especially when the same has been done at a throw away price, alleged the petition.
 
 Directions have been sought to set-aside the decision of the KDB for leasing out the nine acre land to the GEIO on 99-years lease and to conduct an inquiry into the alleged irregularities through the state vigilance bureau.
 
 The matter has reached before the HC in the wake of a petition filed in public interest by Ankush Kumar and other residents of Kurukshetra who claimed to have procured several documents relating to the irregularities.
 
 The petitioners have alleged that deviating from its own norms prepared in August 2006, the KDB leased out nine acres of land to the GEIO society against the acquisition price of Rs 50 lakh.
 
 It has also been alleged that one woman IAS officer who served in Kurukshetra on various administrative positions and one senior Haryana IPS, were also patrons of the NGO that has been given the land.
 
 “Thus, the allotment is nothing but a favour to the NGO under political as well as the pressure of high-ups,” petition has alleged.
 
 It has also been claimed that the present market rate of the land is around Rs 75 lakh per acre and in 2014, six acres of land situated in Ravgarh was allotted to ISKCON for construction of a temple at the rate of Rs 38 lakh per acre.
 
 
