LUCKNOW: Launched in August with claims that over 5,000   (including both  ) will be available for purchase at prices lower than the  , the government run AMRIT (Affordable medicine and reliable implants for treatment) pharmacy has failed to help patients at   (KGMU).

 Two counters of the pharmacy were inaugurated — one at the out-patient department (OPD) and the other at Shatabdi phase I — by union health minister JP Nadda through video conferencing. These promised an up to 60% discount starting from 25%. However, a reality check by TOI revealed that the pharmacy has seen more patients return emptyhanded than those getting their medicines.
 
 In August 2017, it was claimed that around 164 cancer drugs, 191 cardio-vascular medicines, stents, implants and in total, around 5,200 medicines, will be available at the 24X7 functional pharmacy.
 
 But when Unnao resident Shiv Sagar visited the KGMUbased   yet again this week, he was left dejected. His son was recently operated upon for a liver cyst. “Beta beemar hai toh kya karein, daudna hee padta hai (My son is ill so there is no option but to run around). I never get all the medicines here and have to keep running between both the AMRIT pharmacy counters. I ultimately have to fetch the medicines from outside, from private chemists at very high rates,” he said.
 
 Krishna Kumar, another patient’s attendant, made not one but three rounds to the AMRIT pharmacy for postsurgery anti-infection injections prescribed to his sister who had undergone a gastrointestinal surgery. “The injection costs over Rs 2,000 in private medical shops. Everytime the doctor asked me to get it, I would rush to the AMRIT pharmacy first. But at least three times I was returned from the counter,” he said.
 
 Unlike private medical stores in and around KGMU, the AMRIT pharmacy at Shatabdi hospital remained deserted. In a two-hour stint, TOI found only nine customers approach it, of whom most were returned with incomplete or no medicines at all.
 
 Baburam from Basti was present in KGMU for treatment of his wife’s eye infection. He said, “I have come here for the third time, and have never got the medicines I have needed.”
 
 Common surgical kits, post-operative essential injections and even basic medicines for diabetes and acne were not available. “I had to buy the surgical kit for my mother’s kidney surgery. But the kit was not available,” said Amit Sahay.
 
 Faculty in charge for the pharmacy, Prof Ajai Singh said, “We hold regular meetings of AMRIT pharmacy and doctors at KGMU. Efforts to increase medicine stock and get counters are being made.” Others associated with pharmacy management said KGMU doctors did not cooperate with them.
 
 (With inputs from Shambhavi Vijai and Nabia Rizvi )
 
