GURUGRAM: His legend survived and flourished over centuries. But his   had no such luck.

 A three-hour search on Friday morning led a TOI team to a corporation-run nursery where the statue of   stood in a quiet corner, damaged and forgotten. It had lost its left palm and right index finger, possibly during a rash shifting operation from its original home in a park that had to be concretised to make way for an underpass at   on the Gurgaon-Delhi expressway.
 
 The TOI team started searching for the statue a day ago after regulars at the Rajiv Chowk park discovered the statue of the ‘guru’ who lends his name to Gurugram gone. No senior administration official had a clue. The missing statue was embarrassing for the city’s administrators because the government had only last year cited Gurgaon’s connection with the Mahabharata teacher to officially change its name. This was also the only statue of Dronacharya in a public place in the city, and therefore, had symbolic significance.
 
 At the MCG nursery where the statue was found were also Dronacharya’s students — statues of the five Pandavas that had stood around their teacher at the Rajiv Chowk park for at least 30 years. The shifting process hadn’t left them unscathed either; Arjuna’s statue had lost most of its left arm. The nursery is just behind state cabinet minister Rao Narbir Singh’s house in Civil Lines.
 
 The TOI team visited five government offices and an MCG warehouse before eventually finding the statues. Senior town planner Sudhir Chauhan’s guess was the starting point of the search — the MCG warehouse in Sector 39. “I have been working here for the past two years. I never saw anyone bring any statue to this warehouse,” Vicky Kumar, the lone guard at the warehouse, said on Friday morning. Chauhan had told TOI on Thursday he had a hunch that the statues could at the warehouse. The   ( ), which is building the underpass, also had no idea. Neither did other MCG officials. 
 
 After the warehouse, mayor Madhu Azad’s office in Sector 34 was the next stop. “I have seen the statues, but don’t know where they are right now. We will find out and restore them with full respect,” she said. MCG chief engineer MR Sharma wasn’t sure either. “The statues are very much in the city, but we need to locate them,” he said.
 
 Deputy commissioner  , who heads the administration, seemed like the right man to ask. But he wasn’t available at his office at the mini secretariat. The next destination was Gawar construction’s (the company making the underpass) site office near Rajiv Chowk around 1.30pm. An official there put the TOI team in touch with MCG supervisor Mahabir Sharma.
 
 Sharma said he knew where the statues were. At the nursery, the five Pandavas’ statues were found under a green shed whole Droancharya’s was out in the open. “Around six months ago, construction work was going on at Rajiv Chowk. The construction agency called us to remove the statues. Around 15 workers from MCG had gone to remove them. They were very heavy. While doing so, Arjuna and Dronacharya’s hands came off,” Sharma said. “I’m surprised senior officials don’t know about them as the statues were kept in this nursery on their instruction,” he added.
 
 
