JAIPUR: A sea of heavyweight literary icons, including the likes of Pico Iyer, Amy Tan and Tom Stoppard, have begun to assemble in the Pink City to participate in the annual five-day literary extravaganza that kicks off on Thursday morning. 

 In additional to cops from reserve lines, about 500 cops are expected to deployed at the venue, the  . The   commissioner, Sanjay Agarwal, reviewed the security arrangements on Wednesday.
 
 The officials said that the venue will be connected to the Abhay Command and Control Centre to keep a track the movement of 'suspects'. "We have also asked our all woman patrolling team to stand near Diggi and report to the control room if they come across anything suspicious," Agarwal said.
 
 The commando unit of the Jaipur police, also known as the quick reaction team (QRT) will also be deployed. The city traffic police have also made elaborate arrangements to avoid road snarls. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Lovely Katiyar said that designated parking arrangements for the festival has been made at the Maharani College and at the Gohkle Hostel Ground.
 
 She said that separate pedestrian lane has been made so that guests don't have to face any problem. Traffic diversions has been made for buses which come from Statue Circle and Panch Batti.
 
 The 11th edition of   will feature over 200 sessions on a multitude of topics, trends, ideas and genres, ranging from fiction, poetry, nonfiction, gender, environment, science, history, liberal arts, journalism, economics, travel and cinema. Sticking to its usual format, the festival will again open with a keynote address and reach its culmination with a debate where the audience has the opportunity to vote either in favour of or against the given motion.
 
 The keynote address will be given by Pico Iyer, in which he will be talk about "A world without borders."
 
 With as many as seven sessions taking place simultaneously throughout the day, there's a lot that visitors may look forward to. Tom Stoppard, winner of an Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay for "Shakespeare in Love", will discus his life and work in a session called "The Real Thing." A discussion titled "The Great Survivor" will see former Afghan president Hamid Karzai and William Dalrymple discuss his life, legacy and leadership through the country's recent turbulent times. In "The Bridget Jones' Diaries," novelist Helen Fielding will be in conversation with publisher Meru Gokhale on the comic and the tragic, film and fiction and Bridget Jones' bumpy ride to motherhood.
 
 The programme also celebrates the diversity of languages, their enigmatic roots and multifaceted trajectories. In "Lok Bhasha: The Oxford Dictionaries Hindi Word of the Year," the announcement of the first ever Oxford Dictionaries 'Hindi Word of the Year' will be made at the festival, followed by a panel discussion with Ashok Vajpeyi, Pankaj Dubey, Saurabh Dwivedi, Vinod Dua, Yatindra Misra and Anu Singh Choudhary on new trends in Hindi usage and writing. In "Hindi Medium: Language and Elitism," Annie Montaut, Avinash Das, Satya Vyas and Satyanand Nirupam will examine the value of Hindi, its position as a common language in a multilingual nation, a language steeped in deep literary traditions as well as one that is familiar within both popular culture and the marketplace.
 
 Further, the festival will also witness book launches by acclaimed writers like Ashok Chopra, Shashi Tharoor and Ashwin Sanghi, among 20 book launches that are set to take place over the course of the next five days. The closing debate for the festival will see a noted panel deliberate on the motion "#MeToo: Do Men Still Have It too Easy?"
 
 
