The vacancy sign has been hanging for some time. Places in the Indian middle-order, especially for cricket’s shorter versions, are up for grabs. Yuvraj Singh and  , proven performers of the past, have lost form, and younger contenders such as Manish Pandey have failed to cement their place. Riding high on the back of strong performances in this  , a bunch of new and old cricketers have staked their claim for India berths for the England tour beginning this July. 

 
 
 
 TOI takes a close look:
 
 
 
  
  
 It isn’t easy to get noticed in T20s, especially if you are the batting partner of an in-form Chris Gayle. But the 26-year-old from Bengaluru has often outscored (376 runs) and, more importantly, outpaced (163, strike rate) six-machine Gayle (150) without ever sacrificing grammar and aesthetics. Rahul has been in and out of Team India in the shorter versions but judging by IPL 11, his time has come.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 For someone who got the Player-of-the-Match award in India’s first-ever T20 game back in 2006, the Chennai wicketkeeper-batsman has been an unpredictable and underwhelming performer. But ever since he powered that six over extra-cover to win the Nidahas Trophy for India this march, Karthik has morphed into Karthik 2.0. His strokes have certitude. In IPL 11, the KKR skipper’s 316 run at a strike rate of 148 have come in pressure-cooker situations. Mostly, he has delivered.
 
 
 
  
  
 Captaincy has done a world of good for the 23-year-old from Mumbai. There is more maturity and consistency to his craft without sacrificing tempo. The last-ball dismissal against KXIP, which ironically gave him the job, will rankle. His match-winning unbeaten 93 off 40 balls against KKR has been among the finest knocks of this IPL.
 
 
 
  
  
 Hardik’s elder brother has been one of the few shining lights in MI’s faltering season. The left-arm spinner has been penetrative (nine wickets) as well as fairly economical (7.44). The 27-year-old has also displayed poise and power in high-anxiety batting situations. Strike rate: 148. Super fielder too. Remember the gamechanger of a catch that dismissed Andre Russell of KKR.
 
