Chennai: DMK working president M K Stalin has written letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and 10 chief ministers of non-BJP ruled states and Union Territory asking for a review of the parameters taken into consideration by the 15th Finance Commission for recommending devolution of funds.

 Stalin has written letters to the chief ministers of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Odisha, Punjab, Kerala, Delhi, West Bengal and Puducherry as well as to Modi.
 
 “I am concerned about certain elements of the terms of reference for the 15th Finance Commission,which will affect the very fabric of equitable and just devolution of central tax revenues to the states. Section 15 of the 42nd amendment to the Constitution (1976) effected a freeze on the population figures of 1971 census as being the basis for all delimitation until 2001 census and this was extended till 2026,” said Stalin.
 
 The commission has unilaterally decided to use the population data of 2011 while making its recommendations. “The term of reference will negatively impact allocations to many progressive states,” Stalin said. 
 
 “On the one hand, we will be losing disproportionally due to use of 2011 census data as the basis, and on the other, we will also be deprived of any incentive as we achieved (or exceeded) the neutral net reproductive rate target long ago,” the leader of opposition said.
 
 The new terms of reference of the finance commission will reduce distribution of central revenues to the progressive states by a very substantial margin, which will not only be a travesty of justice, but also an ill-conceived effort to systematically divert resources to states, which have never made serious attempts at population control, Stalin said.
 
 He wanted all the state chief ministers to join in asking for immediate modifications of the terms of reference. “This is the only way to ensure that that there will not be any injustice perpetrated upon our states in the manner of the devolution of taxes, which will almost certainly lead to grave discontent and unrest amongst those wronged by such actions,” he said.
 
 eom
 
 
