NEW DELHI:  , Rani, has   affecting the brain and  . She is   and needs continuous medical support for survival. On Thursday, the poor woman was left with no choice but to take   back home in Rohini as none of the doctors at   had been attending to her daughter for the past two days. She didn’t come to know that the strike was   shortly after.

 As she wheeled out her daughter on a stretcher towards the auto stand, the 50-year-old woman told TOI, “There is no point in staying here. The doctors have prescribed some medicines and we will pray that no emergency situation arises.”
 
 Several patients were discharged over the past three days since the strike was called to protest the assault on two doctors. Critical ones, like the patients admitted in neurosurgery ICU, said they had been praying for the strike to get over.
 
 “My father is very critical and is on ventilator support. I cannot afford to take him to a private facility,” said a patient’s attendant in neurosurgery ICU, who had come from Meerut.
 
 Patients were also denied emergency treatment when the strike was on. “They turned away patients saying doctors are on strike,” said 22-year-old Fatima, as she struggled to put her son suffering from severe abdominal pain back in the auto to rush him to another hospital.
 
 Usually, emergency services are kept out of strike because even a few minute’s delay in treatment to the critically ill can be fateful. However, when TOI visited Lok Nayak hospital on Thursday before the strike was called off the casualty ward was found empty. Hospital guards and two cops stood outside the entry gate. Only a few doctors and nursing officers were sitting inside.
 
 Lok Nayak is one of the biggest hospitals run by Delhi government. Next to it is GB Pant Hospital, the largest super-specialty hospital run by the state. OPD, routine surgeries had been affected there too. More importantly, the emergency unit at the hospital, which caters specifically to stroke and heart attack cases, was shut.
 
 “Normally, we get about 100 patients in the emergency daily. But today only 2-3 patients were treated due to unavailability of doctors,” said one of the nursing officers at the hospital.
 
 Even at Safdarjung Hospital, the health facility run by central government, few routine surgeries were performed because the resident doctors were not working. They had been agitating to demand increase in post-graduate seats in Vardhaman Mahavir Medical College associated with the hospital.
 
 
