After police firing left 13 people dead in   during the anti-Sterlite protests on Tuesday, the Madras high court stopped expansion work of the copper smelter. But   Copper CEO P Ramnath, who spoke to D  , said the company had every right to operate as it was complying with all the norms.   also said the government could have called the protesters for talks. Excerpts:

 
 
 
 We do not condone what happened there on May 22. With Section 144 in place, we thought it would be peacefully handled and protests would be held at a designated place. It is unfortunate that it did not happen that way with one faction turning violent. The protests need not have been there considering that our plant is closed for the past two months and there have been no issues in past few years, with pollution control board monitoring and testing samples regularly. There was no reason for such sudden outburst.
 
 
 
 One reason some are saying is expansion plans and hence the fear. A lot of these fears are unfounded with no scientific basis. For such fears, scientific evidence is a must and one cannot go by perception. The expansion works have been going on since June 2017.
 
 
 
 True. We are also citizens and have the right to breath good air. I am not saying Tuticorin is not polluted. The air may be polluted, but not because of Sterlite Copper. There are large thermal power plants using domestic coal which is high on sulphur. They do not have any mitigation system or sulphuric acid plant. These are various untruths that agencies are propagating against us.
 
 
 
 We are not the right people to comment on that. Probably, the government could have called the protesters for talks. Our gates were open for people to come and see.
 
 
 
 As a responsible corporate, we are concerned. I think we have a right to operate our plant, especially when we are abiding by all the laws and complying with all environmental norms. We have a right to operate our plant and take it up in the court because closing the plant is not the solution. How to improve and move forward should be the focus. If we are closing down everything, how will the country progress?
 
 
 
 With regards to expansion, we have to take it up in the court. They moved an urgent motion and we were not given an opportunity to present our side. For an existing plant, power has now been cut, but it will not have any immediate effect since the plant is shut. We have to take it up in the court with June 6 being next hearing.
 
