CHENNAI: In employing individuals without proper training to operate ‘old’ and ‘ill-maintained’ buses, the government is putting lives of millions at stake, say striking transport unions.

 Two minor crashes were reported in the city on the third day of the strike. Both the buses were driven by temporary staff. In one incident, the driver smashed against the depot wall in Avadi, unable to turn the vehicle within the limited space. The second incident happened when the man behind the wheel, also a full-time auto driver, crashed against a pavement in Tambaram. 
 
 Though none was injured, unions said the government should not resort to hiring temporary staff and put the lives of passengers at risk. Union members alleged that the accident history of the drivers approaching regional transport offices (RTOs) was not being checked as the government was keen only on showing figures to the media that most buses were out on the roads. 
 
 “If holding licence is the only criteria, then what is the point in having training institutes for the government drivers,” asked   of  . “Most of the temporary staff are lorry or auto drivers. Driving a lorry is completely different from driving a bus filled with passengers,” admitted one of the temporary staff from   on anonymity. 
 
 “Moreover, nearly 72% government buses, particularly those used in the city, are overused and are in very bad shape. It is difficult to operate them safely without experience,” said Perisamy of DMK’s Labour Progressive Front. 
 
 Many temporary staff were not aware about the sharp curves, pot holes and other dangers on their routes unlike the seasoned and experienced MTC drivers.
 
 “More than 70% of the technical staff in MTC and other TNSTC depots were also part of the protesting lot. Even those working were attached to the electrical and not the mechanical section,” said  , general sectary of  . 
 
 This indicated that there were not enough hands to attend to the repairs, he added. 
 
 At any given time, 14% of government buses are under maintenance. Nearly 500 buses require technical assistance daily and these work has come to a standstill with the strike began. 
 
 
