Kota: PCC chief Sachin Pilot along with senior party leaders launched ‘Mera Booth, Mera Gaurav’ programme in Kota on Monday. The party, after getting successful results from the experimental programme in bypolls for Ajmer, Alwar and Mandalgarh, decided to launch it across the state before the assembly elections due later this year.

 Pilot alleged that the BJP government both, at the centre and states has failed at every front as none of the promises made before assuming power have been fulfilled. Pilot assured his party workers that Congress is set to come back to power in election slated to be held after seven months in the state.
 
 “BJP government at centre as well as in state has failed at every front and none of the promises made to woo the public before assuming power has been fulfilled,” Pilot said alleging BJP somehow managed to come in power but now its departure is certain. Pilot also slammed top BJP leaders for not being able to respond to the questions raised by party president Rahul Gandhi. “The BJP leaders, despite their best efforts have failed to reply to the questions and challenges raised by Rahul Gandhi after he has assumed the office as party president,” Pilot said. 
 
 Pilot further said the farmers are forced to commit suicide but no effective measure has been in place so far to check such tragedies with the farmers. Pilot also urged the Congress booth workers to work in getting a lead in votes at every booth under them. Pilot also alleged BJP of adding fake voters’ names to get more votes in their favor and appealed the booth party workers to stop fake voters in their booth area.
 
 No move for change in leadership can save BJP from being washed out
 
 On delay in announcement of the name of state BJP chief, PCC chief Pilot said nobody wants to be the BJP state chief as none of the BJP leaders is ready to become a scapegoat because the saffron party is set to be washed out in the elections. “Any move by BJP, whether it is change of state party chief or even the CM or an entire cabinet, is not going to work as its wash out is imminent,” Pilot said.
 
 PCC chief however, could speak for around ten minutes as the parry workers and crowd in the back seats started leaving the Sammalan due to mounting suffocation and heat in the Pandal.
 
 Senior party leader CP Joshi, AICC general secretary in charge Avinash Pande, leader of opposition in state assembly Rameshwar Dudi, deputy dealer Ramesh Meena, state youth congress chief Ashok Chandana, Girja Vyas, ex minister Shanti Dhariwal, Bharat Singh, Ijjayraj Singh and several other leaders addressed the party workers on this occasion but ex minister and veteran party leader Harimohan Sharma and ex NCW chairman Mamta Sharma were not given a chance to speak and that later became an issue of gossip among the party workers from Bundi.
 
 
