GURUGRAM: The nationwide results of the Class X and Class XII board exams, conducted by the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), known as Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) and Indian School Certificate ( ) exams respectively, were released on Monday. Class X students of Gurugram recorded a   of 98.51, while the pass percentage for Class XII students was 96.21. 

 In ISC (Class XII), the city’s   has topped the Delhi-NCR region, with 99.25%. She has also come second in the all-India rankings (AIR). Tanushree Pendharkar and Sanjana Hira scored 99% and secured joint-second position in Delhi-NCR and joint-third nationwide. All three are from The   (TSRS), Moulsari, DLF 3, Gurugram. The all-India first rank has been secured by seven students, from Mumbai, Lucknow and Panihati, with 99.50% marks. 
 
 In ICSE (Class X), Jivansh Kakkar of TSRS-Moulsari in DLF 3 and Manavi Kumar of TSRS-Aravali, also in Gurugram, topped the Delhi-NCR region with 98.80% marks.
 
 Antra Kapoor said she heard of her rank from her teachers. “There was no pressure from anyone to do well in the exams. I simply stuck to my goal of doing my regular studies. Teachers of the school were supportive, they helped me clear my concepts well.” Antra, a commerce student, lives in Delhi but chose to join TSRS-Moulsari because there aren’t many ISC schools in the capital. “I studied in Mumbai till Class VIII at Hiranandani Foundation School, so when we shifted to Delhi in Class IX, I joined TSRS-Moulsari,” she added.
 
 Just behind her in the AIR, both Tanushree Pendharkar and Sanjana Hira said they studied throughout the year and didn’t leave any chapter unturned. “I studied for 4-5 hours daily. The key to getting good marks is paying attention in class and listening to what your teacher is teaching,” said Pendharkar. Agreeing with her, Sanjana added, “There is no alternative to hard work, especially in Class XII. Both of us had chosen Humanities with math.” Their subjects were math, economics, sociology, psychology and English. 
 
 Though all the rankers said they had studied hard throughout the year, this did not mean they missed out elsewhere. “I’m a Bharatnatyam dancer and I continued my practice throughout my exams,” said Pendharkar. To relax during the exams, Antra, who wants to pursue business studies, said she went for swimming and watched movies. Both Tanushree and Sanjana said they want to continue study in India. 
 
 On hearing of his performance, ICSE topper Jivansh Kakkar was so elated, he hurt his fingers as he jumped in the air and banged his hands against a wall. “The pre-board school exams were the turning point, as they helped me focus on my preparation,” said Kakkar, who has opted for science with math for high school. “If one wants to do well in Class X, they should take studies seriously. I was buried in my books for at least eight hours a day,” said Manavi, the joint topper.
 
 Interestingly, there are not many ISC and ICSE schools in Delhi-NCR. Compared to two in Delhi, one in Noida and three in Greater Noida, Gurugram has nine ICSE/ISC schools.
 
 
