RAIPUR: Sixteen monkeys were found dead under mysterious circumstances near a borewell in   district. Wildlife enthusiasts have alleged that incidents of mass killing for trading of monkeys have been reported earlier and the latest incident might be the recurrence of it.

 
 Forest department has sent the sample of water and remains of animals to a lab, yet there were reports that few farmers upset with crop damage by monkeys had mixed poison in water for them to consume, leading to monkeys' death. 
  
  
 
 Carcasses of 16 monkeys were found on Monday in   village at Dongargarh in Rajnandgaon district by the passer-by who approached the isolated location after smelling foul. The monkeys were found dead under mysterious circumstances though there were remains of vomit and blood indicating they were poisoned. 
 
 Close to the spot, was a handpump which had water collected on the floor and the exit way for water was found blocked with heap of mud. 
 
  
  
 
 The villagers alerted police and forest department alleging that the animals were poisoned. The forest department team rushed to the spot and collected the carcases to send them for autopsy. Few remains were also sent to the veterinary lab in Jabalpur along with sample of water, officials said adding that they have launched a probe and would reveals other details once the reports are received. 
 
 According to local villagers, they were alleging few group of farmers who often used to complain about crop damage caused by group of monkeys leading to loss of other resources as well. The locals said that the hand pump was not functional for past three months and as part of conspiracy, water was poured near the floor of hand pump, the exit way was blocked with mud so that the water stays and poison was mixed in the water. 
 
 When the monkeys came in search of water near the hand pump, they drank the poisonous water which choked them to death. 
 
 Meanwhile, veteran wildlife enthusiast and president of   Wildlife Society, AMK Bharos, told TOI that incidents of   has been reported few years back from Rajnandgaon district which came under control after newspapers highlighted the issue. 
 
 "It shouldn't be ruled out that even the latest incident of   might be an attempt towards meat trading to metro cities. There seems to be a gang operative in the region and there might be other monkeys dead too, which they might have taken away. The culprits should be immediately apprehended and administration should take swift action as it seems to be a great threat to wild animals,” Bharos said.
 
 Monkeys are a protected species under Schedule II of the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972 and TOI had in November 2014 highlighted the issue illegal trade of monkey meat by group of tribals at Devvadvi region near Ambagarh Chowki in   district.
 
 There were shocking details of hundreds of monkeys slaughtered and their meat being dried at an isolated place after being boiled. There were packets of processed meat seized, which were being transported. 
 
 Five persons including a deputy forest ranger and four guards were suspended for negligence in the case.
 
