Surat: The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) has given January 30 as deadline to the central government to take action against Infosys for glitches in the GST portal, or else it will approach the court in first week of February.  National secretary of CAIT Praveen Khandelwal, who visited Surat to attend the meeting with textile industry stakeholders on Wednesday, told TOI, “The GST portal has become synonymous with mental agony and harassment to the traders. Even after six months of continuous glitches, the central government is keeping mum. We expect the government to initiate penal action against Infosys.” “The CAIT is awaiting contract documents between government and Infosys. The government has time to act till January 30, or else we are all prepared to move the court against Infosys in the first week of February,” said Khandelwal.  Around 400 textile industry stakeholders from various verticals of the industry had converged at the meeting in the city on Thursday, where they discussed the issues concerning GST and came up with suggestions regarding the non-functioning of the GST portal, e-way bill, filing of the GSTR-1, etc.  CAIT will ask the Centre to defer the e-way bill implementation till March 31 and the date of filing the GSTR-1 till January 30 due to technical glitches in the GST portal, Khandelwal said. The trader body has also suggested that the central government should decentralize the GST portal system for every state. A demand has also been made for appointing a special task force for the textile industry to study and resolve the GST issues of the industry.  Opposing the BJP-led government in the Centre for allowing 100% FDI in single brand retail, Khandelwal said, “We oppose 100% FDI in single brand retail. We are in the process of contacting traders across the country and will launch a nationwide agitation in the coming days against the government’s decision.” Textile tourism in Surat planned Textile industry stakeholders have formed an 11-member committee for making Surat a ‘Textile Tourism Hub’. The committee, formed on Wednesday, will work in the direction to promote the textile brand and increase the tourism facilities in the city by setting up a museum, centre of excellence and organizing international seminars on promoting the city as a textile tourism destination. 