The latest episode of   starts with   telling   that she is only a friend to him and she is left heartbroken. Mahi walks away and meanwhile,   walks in and tries to talk to Mahi. But Mahi gets angry and thinks that her brother Yash left her alone for Zoya and now Aditya has chosen Zoya over her. 

 Zoya gets furious as she confronts Aditya and tells him that she had warned him but he did not listen to her. Aditya tells Zoya that his intentions were never wrong and she made up things on her own. But Zoya tells him that he always used to talk to Mahi in a certain manner and that made her fall in love with him. 
 
 Aditya then holds Zoya close to him and asks her if she felt anything for him as Mahi might have felt. Mahi walks into the office and starts shouting at the interns and Sagarika walks up to her. She then starts mocking Mahi indirectly. 
 
 Aditya then tries to talk to Mahi and asks her to forgive him. Sagarika gets to know that Zoya and Aditya are not talking and she asks Adi to give a rose to Zoya. Meanwhile,   clicks their picture and talks to his seniors saying that he is sure that both Zoya and Aditya are involved in Yash and Pooja's accident murder.
 
 In another scene, Rajveer gets shocked to see Mahi around, who asks her whether he is a police officer. Mahi tells Rajveer that she is ready to help him in framing Zoya and Aditya. 
 
 Mahi and Rajveer then meet someone and ask him to do his job. On the other side, the bank officials reach office and start threatening Aditya and ask him to pay back the loan. Zoya comes to his rescue and tells them that he will pay back by the end of the day. 
 
 At Viranis house, Zoya sees a pandit and Mahi recognizes him as the man whom Rajveer paid. The pandit then says that there are some issues that he can see in the event and calls Zoya to read her palm. 
 
 He asks Zoya if she had any problems with her husband and tells her that she needs to marry her husband once again. Zoya gets shocked at hearing this and the pandit further says that their wedding should happen otherwise the event needs to be cancelled.
 
 Aditya reaches home and stops Sakshi from leaving the house. As he takes her suitcase inside, it falls and he sees Yash and Pooja's picture. He asks Sakshi if she knew about Pooja and Yash's relationship and Sakshi agrees. Sakshi asks Aditya to give her one chance to confess but Aditya loses his calm and blames her for choosing her daughter. Sakshi leaves the house and Aditya gets heartbroken. 
 
 While, on the other side, Mahi tells Zoya that she is being selfish as she is thinking about herself and not about their company.   asks Zoya to not listen to Mahi as she is evil and this forces Mahi to reveal that Noor ran from her house. Zoya gets shocked to hear this and slaps Noor. She decides to send Noor back. 
 
 Zoya reaches Aditya's house and Anjana asks her not to disturb Adi. Aditya comes out from his room and tells Zoya that he cannot continue the drama more and it needs to end. Further Zoya tells Aditya that she trusts him and will wait for him. 
 
 
 
