CHENNAI: The defence expo's Chennai edition to be held from April 11 to 14 will see participation of a minimum of 42 countries. Representatives of the three defence services and defence production secretary   recently visited Tiruvadanthai on  , where the expo is to be held and later on also met chief secretary Girija Vadiyanathan.

 "So far, 42 countries, including the US, the UK, Russia, France, Israel, South Korea and Sweden have confirmed their participation in  . More than 10 lakh square space will be readied to showcase the products of defence firms," Ajay Kumar told TOI. This is the 10th edition of DefExpo India.
 
 There is overwhelming response from foreign countries and domestic defence industries, he said. "Several of the delegations participating in the expo are expected to be at the ministerial level. Top service officers ( ) are also participating in the expo," he said.
 
 "About 10 companies are booking space for DefExpo every day," said the secretary.
 
 The defence ministry has asked   to open an office in Chennai to coordinate with foreign defence firms and local companies, which are showing interest in putting up stalls at the expo. "A senior officer from   will be in charge of the Chennai office. He will coordinate with the ministry as well as the state government, which has given the land along the ECR," said Kumar.
 
 The DefExpo website mentions 20,500 per sq metre as rental for raw indoor space for participating firms. The defence production department has suggested 50% discount on rental for local companies. 
 
 In the ninth edition of Defexpo India held in March 2016 in Goa, 232 foreign companies from 32 countries participated. There were 15 pavilions of companies within the country. "The ministry is keen on encouraging local industries and entrepreneurs to avail opportunities to manufacture defence equipment and supply them to the nation. There are 100 MSMEs from Tamil Nadu, which are contributing to the defence ministry and Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO).   is one of the major markets for these MSMEs," said the official.
 
