PUNE: Passengers and crew members of a   had a heated exchange of words on Tuesday night over the alleged defunct air-conditioning system of the aircraft, delaying its take-off by over an hour.

 The argument between the flyers and the airline’s crew members intensified with every passing moment in the allegedly muggy aircraft (G8 393). The pilot of the plane lost his cool when a section of the passengers questioned him about the defunct air-conditioning system. He alerted the ground staff and some CISF personnel boarded the aircraft to pacify the passengers.
 
 
  
 
 Two passengers, allegedly in an inebriated state and physically assaulting a male cabin crew member, were de-boarded. The air-conditioning system was rectified in the meantime and the flight took at 11.15pm with about 150 passengers on board.
 
 The scheduled departure time of the GoAir flight from Kolkata was 10.05pm. It reached Pune around 1.30pm. No problems were reported during the flying time.
 
 Nikhil Rai from Jharkhand posted an 11-second video on Twitter showing passengers talking to a CISF jawan and an airline official claiming that the air-conditioning system was fine. Rai, who was in the flight, told TOI that he could see the chaos when he boarded the aircraft.
 
 “The air-conditioner was defunct. The passengers were angry. I could hear quite a few children crying. An argument started between some passengers and the cabin crew after a while. It was very hot, and I also asked one of the crew members why the air-conditioner was not working. The cabin crew member told me that there was a technical problem,” Rai said.
 
 “When I asked the cabin crew why they prepared to fly the aircraft when there was an issue and what if an untoward incident happens, I was told to keep quiet, else I would be de-boarded. The airline officials were rude. I couldn’t even see the pilot for a long time. When he came, a few passengers argued with him. He got angry, too. The crew was just stating that the AC would start in two minutes, but it never happened so,” Rai told TOI.
 
 “There were no announcements from the crew that there was an issue with the air-conditioner and it was being fixed. They just de-boarded two passengers, who were very angry. The whole drama went on for around 40 minutes, after which things cooled down a bit. The AC started functioning and the flight took off. There was no problem during the flight,” Rai added.
 
 GoAir admitted that there was a technical issue in the aircraft. “Two passengers in an inebriated state were continuously arguing with the cabin crew on a technical issue. The crew tried their best to calm them down but that did not happen. The passengers became abusive and physically assaulted a male cabin crew member. The captain, keeping in mind the passengers’ safety, duly alerted the ground security. The CISF quick response team was brought in and they escorted the abusive passengers from the aircraft and handed them over to the local police, with whom a formal complaint has been lodged. The flight was delayed by approximately an hour,’ a GoAir spokesperson told TOI.
 
 Aviation expert and analyst Dhairyashil Vandekar said prima facie it appeared that the airline was at fault. “Before a go-ahead for boarding is given, all aspects of an aircraft are properly checked. If the airline stated that there was a technical issue after the passengers had boarded, it was not right. With passengers claiming that the airline did not make any confidence building announcement, the anger of flyers was bound to grow,” Vandekar told TOI.
 
 Air marshal Bhushan Gokhale (retired) said, “While I agree in principle for Quick Turn Around, each department works in parallel to reduce the time on ground. On ground, an external air-conditioning trolley is connected. The inboard air-conditioner starts only after the engines are started. Meanwhile, the luggage is loaded or other maintenance checks are done. Of course, if the captain complained about air-conditioning in the previous flight, it needs to be fixed before the passengers are asked to board.”
 
 
