JAIPUR: District   is leaving no stone unturned to make political gains out of school fees hike row continuing in the city from the past one month. 

  president Pratap Singh   has announced to burn the effigies of chief minister Vasundhara Raje and education minister   at 16 places in the city on Wednesday for not able to regulate the private school fees. “I am launching a city wide campaign 'Fees Ghatao, Bachpan Bachao' in the city against the private schools which in connivance with the state has passed immense financial burden on parents. The campaign will not end until schools revoke the fees, said Khachariyawas.
 
 He blamed the weak Rajasthan Private School Fees Act which has allowed the private schools to increase the fees by getting an approval from a school level fees committee, which includes five parents. “Parents are not aware of any such committee. Most schools have decide the fees by their own without forming the committee. The consent of parents was not taken indicates that law is meant to help private schools fleece money from parents. The law passes the onus on the school level committee to decide the fees are like running away from the responsibility,” said Khachariyawas.
 
 Threatening to cause a city-wide stir, he says, “If   fails to bring any change in the legislation or revoke the fees, the Congress party workers will gherao BJP leaders at the residences and offices. It will become a big movement in the city,” said Khachariyawas. Some schools have hiked the fees by 30% has caused the tension simmering between parents and schools. It has resulted in series of protest and demonstrations by parents. Under the Fees Ghatao, Bachpan Bachao campaign, Congress workers will reach out to parents in all municipal wards seeking their support. 
 
 Hitting back at rural development and Panchayati Raj minister   for claiming that state has generated 13 lakh jobs in his tenure; Khachariyawas says that senior minister is a lying. “BJP has insulted youth of the state. I challenge the minister to prove it if they have generated 13 lakh jobs and are leading in the country in terms of generating jobs,” said Khachariyawas. 
 
 
