NASHIK: With a spate of incidents coming to the fore of people possessing huge quantities of drugs, doctors and NGOs running de-addiction centres in the city are of the opinion that drug abuse among city youths is increasing at an alarming pace and eventually turning them into addicts. 

 Some doctors even claimed that when the addicts fall short of money to purchase the drugs, they start indulging in crimes like robberies, chain snatchings, etc.
 
 The drugs that are   among the youngsters include brown sugar,  ,  , ink whiteners etc.
 
 “If these drugs are not available in the city, the addicts source them from outside Nashik. Youths from well off families are falling prey to such addiction,” said doctors.
 
 Recently, two persons were arrested in Mumbai from whom the city police seized 2.2kg of mephedrone worth Rs 44 lakh. The duo’s arrest came days after the police had seized the same drug worth Rs 5.3 lakh from the Pathardi Phata area along the Mumbai-Agra highway and arrested three persons ferrying the contraband.
 
 In March this year, the Kolkata zone of   arrested a youth from Nashik for procuring drugs from overseas and selling them to various parts of the country.
 
 Doctors running counselling and rehabilitation centres for drug addicts said the drugs are available everywhere, which is evident from the number of people coming to them for de-addiction.
 
 Savio D’cruz, a member of NGO Moksh Foundation in  , said, “We usually admit people who are addicted to alcohol. However, we also get a good number of patients who are addicted to ganja and charas. Surroundings and peer pressure play a massive role in addiction. Even doctors and engineers get addicted to drugs.” 
 
 He further added, “First, we have to make the patient realise they have an addiction. Once they realise this, we motivate them to quit addiction with the help of counselling and medicine.” 
 
 Hemant Sonanis, who runs a de-addiction counselling centre in the city said, “People are getting addicted to all types of drugs. It is alarming to see the number of young people, especially college students, getting addicted to drugs. We have at least 20 to 25 new patients coming in every month to get rid of their addiction. We believe the patients arriving for medical help to get rid of the addiction is only the tip of an iceberg. Young people are brought to us only when their parents find drugs in the pockets of their wards’ clothes or notice a change in their behaviour.” 
 
 Sonanis added the party culture was rising among college students and that young minds do not have the maturity to distinguish between the good and the bad due to which it was necessary to educate them at the school and college level.
 
 Anup Bharati, who recently started a rehabilitation centre in the city, said charas and ganja were common among drug addicts. He added he receives at least 10 to 15 new patients at his clinic who are addicted to alcohol, charas and ganja and that drug-addiction is a phenomenon prevalent among all classes of poeple. 
 
 He further added, “Given the age at which the youngters are, they want to try something new and adventurous. The addiction eventually starts with smoking and then the youths turn to other means like taking drugs, consuming alcohol.” 
 
 City police commissioner   has appealed parents of drug addicts to inform police of the source from where their children are getting the contraband. “The police is serious in dealing with this menace and we promise the identity of the informers would be confidential,” he said.
 
 
