RAJKOT: Farmers from 34 villages in   of Kutch have raised   during the   for want of water for  . The farmers said they need last round of water — which they were supposed to get till March — for the rabi crop. But, the Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited (SSNNL) has stopped water supply without notice, only to fill up Aji dam to provide uninterrupted drinking water supply to chief minister Vijay Rupani’s hometown Rajkot, they allege.

 Presently, only Bhachau and Rapar are covered under the Narmada canal network in Kutch. According to farmers, standing crop in over 34,000 hectare was at stake in these 34 villages of the two talukas. They said their water supply has been suspended since February 1. 
 
 A farmer leader in Bhachau Vitthalbhai Patel said, “We have been told that there is a water crisis and government wants to save the water for drinking purpose this summer. We came to know that government has suspended water supply for irrigation in Kutch to give uninterrupted supply of drinking water to Rajkot city.” 
 
 Farmers are demanding immediate release of water as rabi crops like wheat, sesame seeds, cumin, chickpea and coriander are at stake. 
 
 Gujarat president of Bhartiya Kisan Sangh Vitthalbhai Dudhatra said, “We have made representation over the issues of Kutch farmers before agriculture minister R C Faldu and have asked his time for further meeting. Farmers in Kutch need last round of water for the rabi crop, especially for cumin.”
 
 Farmers wants SSNNL to release 750 cusec water for the first three days and for the rest of days 600 cusec water per day till the end of rabi season. However, sources in SSNNL alleged that farmers neither follow the procedure nor inform the department before sowing or their water requirements and other needs. They alleged that farmers are bullying them. 
 
 Superintendent engineer of SSNNL’s Kutch branch B Shrinivasan said, “We have received the representation from farmers (of Bhachau and Rapar) and have agreed to release the water within two-three days.” When asked for how many days the farmers will get water, Shrinivasa said, “I can’t comment on that as it’s a policy decision. We can supply the water till the date we get supply.” 
 
 Meanwhile, Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) on Monday sent a proposal to state government to fill the Aji Dam to its fullest level by March 31 under SAUNI (Saurashtra Narmada Avtaran Irrigation) scheme. RMC has also assured citizens that it won’t impose water cut this summer and was planning to give 24 hours water supply in some of the wards as promised by CM during the assembly election last year.
 
 
