DHARAMSHALA: Shimla water crisis has cast its shadow on the tourist inflow to this hill town. Those into tourism industry revealed that tourists visiting Himachal make travel plans which include Shimla, Manali, Dalhousie and this hill town. But water crisis in the hill capital has made them divert routes to Jammu and Kashmir or other hill destinations of Uttarakhand.

 
 President of the hotelier association here   said that the circuit on which tourists usually travel has been disturbed due to water problem in Shimla. He said that travel agents across the world are keeping a tab on media reports about the water crisis in Shimla, traffic woes in Manali and closure of hotels in this hill destination.
 
 “Tourist season was lean till May 20, it has only started to pick up from May 21. But after the news reports about Shimla, the bookings have not been extended after June 5. I don’t think that occupancy of hotels in the region will cross the mark of 60% this season,” he said.
 
 There were about 140 properties lying closed after high court orders on illegal buildings. Power and water connections to these buildings had also been cut. Bamba said that during May and June, visitors from Maharashtra and Gujarat formed the bulk of tourists across the region. But travel agents were not sending their clients here due to avoid inconveniences. “Everybody is jittery about sending tourists to this hill state, fearing closure of more hotels in Dharamshala and growing water crisis in Shimla,” he said.
 
 Deepak Deewan, who owns Destination Travels, stated, “Tourists want to cover maximum places in their visit but such reports affect the tourist inflow” he added.
 
 Officials of the tourism department stated that they were trying their best to restore tourists’ confidence. “We have planned to call travel agents with an aim to clearing the air on tourism activities in  . But things are under process to get the final approval from the authorities concerned,” said a senior bureaucrat who didn’t want to be named.
 
