Ludhiana: In a bid to make the public aware about the  , the officials of   ( ) had earlier decided to install around 1,800 display boards in these colonies to warn the public to not invest money here. However, owing to the high cost of the boards, the number has been reduced to 500. As per the officials, one board costs around Rs 7,000. So, if they install all boards at one time, it will cost around Rs 1 crore to the department.

 Therefore, the officials of Glada have decided to first install display boards in the colonies developed by notorious developers. Later, boards will be installed in the other unauthorised colonies. At present, the cost of around 500 boards will be Rs 34.54 lakh.
 
 The officials said that the aim is to create awareness among the public about illegal colonies so that the people do not invest in such colonies. Also, the department will hold the developers responsible for the boards and in case these boards go missing, the officials will register FIR against the developer.
 
 The officials also said that the boards will clearly mention that the colony is “completely illegal” and Glada will not be doing any investment in this colony. Therefore, people will not get any basic amenity. In case, anyone purchases a plot in the colony, then it will be the responsibility of the owner.
 
 The estate officer of Glada (regulatory)   said it will prove to be a major burden in case they install so many boards at one time. “Therefore, first of all, we will catch hold of those developers who do not bother to follow the instructions and fool the public,” he said.
 
 He said when these boards will be installed in a few of the colonies, then at least some people will refrain from purchasing the plots in those colonies and developers will also come under pressure.
 
 Notably, there are over 1,800 illegal colonies within Glada jurisdiction and out of these, 1,100 colonies are only in Ludhiana. The department will first take care of the colonies in city and then the outer areas will be taken care of. 
 
 
