JAIPUR: There is good news for the   party once again from Rajasthan. Close on the heels of the party registering emphatic victory in the bypolls to two parliamentary and an assembly seats, the opposition party again outwitted the ruling BJP on Wednesday by bagging 20 of the 33 seats of panchayati raj institutions where bypolls were held in the state. 

 The opposition Congress won four of the six zila   seats, 12 out of the 20 panchayat samiti seats and four of the six municipal seats for which bypolls were held, officials said.
 
 The Congress was able to double its number from 10 to 20 while the BJPs number has been reduced to 11 from 18 seats. 
 
 The ruling BJP could win only one zila parishad seat, eight panchayat samiti seats and two municipal body seats for which by-elections were held, they said.
 
 Independent candidates won one Zilla Parishad and one panchayat samiti seats.
 
 The stellar performance by the opposition party comes days after overwhelming victories in the bypolls to two parliamentary seats of Ajmer and Alwar and the assembly constituency of Mandalgarh which the chief minister   termed as a ‘wake up call’ for the ruling party.
 
 An upbeat   chief   said the result indicated a certain ouster of the BJP from the state.
 
 "It is a yet another victory of party workers. In the last four years, the BJP has antagonized people of the state due to its anti-people policies. A day ahead of PM’s visit to the state, the people here have already given him their mandate," said Pilot.
 
 He said, the Congress voting percentage has increased in all the by- elections held in last four years whereas the BJP had to face debacles. He claimed that in the Assembly elections due by the year end, a similar result would follow.
 
 "Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje had already accepted defeat in by-polls to parliamentary and assembly constituencies saying that it was a wake-up call and the result of panchayati raj institutions and local bodies declared today has indicated farewell of BJP from the state," he said. 
 
 
