NOIDA: A 26-year-old man hanged himself from a tree after killing his 24-year-old wife as he suspected her of infidelity in Sector 93 on Thursday morning. 

  first strangulated his wife of four years in a fit of rage after finding that she had a mobile phone without his knowledge. He then hid her body in the bed-box and fled from the house. In the afternoon, his body was found hanging from a tree in a green belt area along the Noida-Greater Noida expressway.
 
 Ravindra, an original resident of  , worked as a technician in a private hospital in Greater Noida. His wife Pinki worked as an attendant in a shopping centre in Sector 49, Noida. The couple lived in a third floor one-room set in Shramik Kunj. Pinki’s parents and her two younger siblings live in an adjacent home in the same society.
 
 The couple had an arranged marriage four years ago. They had shifted to Bulandshahr after their marriage. However, a few months later, the woman had filed a case against him for dowry harassment. The woman’s family members said that the matter was later resolved and the couple shifted to the Noida home some seven months ago.
 
 Pinki’s father Jagdish Prasad, who works in an export company, said the couple had visited his house in the evening. “We had dinner together. They had not spoken about any such issue on Thursday night. They returned to their room at around 10 pm,” he said.
 
 Prasad said that in the morning he called Pinki on phone but it was not reachable. “I then came to her house and found the door bolted from outside. I opened the door and found the room ransacked. There were bloodstains on her purse,” he said.
 
 Prasad raised an alarm and alerted neighbours. Local people gathered at the spot and found the woman’s body stuffed inside the bed-box. She had strangulation mark around her neck. Blood had oozed from her mouth and nose due to strangulation. The body was sent for post mortem.
 
 The woman’s family members for killing Pinki for dowry. Investigations found that the couple had a fight as Ravindra had found a mobile phone with her two days ago.
 
 “He suspected infidelity and asked her who had gifted the phone. The woman told him that she had bought the phone from a shop, but Ravindra was not satisfied. It is suspected that the accused murdered her and then fled,” said Shahvez Khan, SHO, Phase II police station. Police later found Ravindra’s body hanging from a tree in the green belt in Sector 135. He had hanged himself with his own trousers, some two kilometres from his house. 
 
 The police also found the mobile phone, which the man allegedly crushed, before fleeing from the spot.
 
 
