PUNE: The   promised a slew of measures to   and Uruli Devachi residents after they threatened an agitation from April 20 against the delay in implementing the infrastructure projects and open dumping of garbage at the depot.

 
 
 
  
 Mayor Mukta Tilak recently held a meeting with them and assured that additional water tankers would be provided in summer months and a nodal officer would be appointed for both the villages to ensure better implementation of the measures. An assurance was also given to start development works, including laying of water pipeline and water storage tank, of about Rs1.5 crore in the villages in the near future.
 
 The mayor’s meeting with the villagers was attended by the standing committee chairman, Yogesh Mulik, and civic officials. A senior official said the nodal officer had been appointed for both the villages. Instructions were issued to deploy more tankers to ensure adequate supply of drinking water, he said.
 
 The Phursungi and Uruli Devachi villages, absorbing the trash generated every day in the city at the garbage depot, were merged in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits in November 2017. Villagers claimed that the civic administration had hardly initiated any steps to push the projects even six months after their merger.
 
 The civic administration was supposed to provide infrastructure support to both the villages because they were taking care of the city’s waste and give permanent jobs to 57 youths in PMC.
 
 Prashant Bhadale, a resident, said PMC had been very slow in its efforts to execute the projects and stop open dumping at the depot. “An agitation was held last year during April-May regarding the same issues. The agitation was called off only after the intervention of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. He had assured that corrective measures would be taken at the earliest. A year has passed but nothing concrete has happened. Residents will again start an agitation,” he said.
 
 Rao promises solutions
 
 Some residents of the villages met the new municipal commissioner, Saurabh Rao, on Tuesday to discuss the issues. Rao, who took charge as the municipal chief on Tuesday, said the civic administration would work out solutions to redress their grievances.
 
 The residents stated that both the villages needed special attention because they were handling the city’s garbage. They also want the garbage depot to be shut.
 
 A separate meeting would be held with the departments concerned in PMC to chalk out a plan, Rao said.
 
 
