PUNE: The office of municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar on Monday issued a circular stating that roads less than 12 metres wide would not be concreted for the next three years.

 Defining the policy to construct concrete thoroughfares, the circular aims to curb wastage of public money on road concreting against the backdrop of the 24X7 water supply project, for which roads, including those already concreted, would be dug up. It states that works should be undertaken keeping in mind the likely road digging for the water supply project.
 
 “The work for the 24X7 water supply project will be carried out in the next three years. Storm water drains and sewage lines will be laid. So, a policy regarding road concreting has been laid out,” the circular stated.
 
 “No road under 12-metre wide should be concreted. A review report from the water supply and sewage treatment officials should be taken if any road beyond 12 metres has to be concreted. If any road, which will be dug up for laying storm water line/ water pipes under the 24X7 water supply project, its concreting should be carried out only after lines/pipes are laid. A security report from a technical committee should be taken before the concreting work.”
 
 Citizens’ group   (SNM) had approached the commissioner’s office demanding restrictions on road concreting after the standing committee approved the 24X7 water supply project. “There is lack of coordination between various civic departments. So, a specific order should be issued for stopping it. It will curtail the wastage of public money,” said   of  .
 
 Of around 2,400km roads across the city, nearly 400km is concrete. About 1,700km of roads would be dug up for the 24X7 water supply project to lay water supply pipelines. The digging is expected to start soon in five areas, including Sahakarnagar, Katraj and Yerawada, where a pilot project would be carried out.
 
 The civic body earlier drew flak from a section of citizens for concreting roads across the city. The total length of cement roads in the city is about 400km. Almost half of it was laid in the past five years.
 
 
