MUMBAI: In a relief to parents of private medical college aspirants, the Fee Regulating Authority (FRA) has not allowed a steep hike in tuition fees for the forthcoming academic session. Most colleges have been permitted a less than 10% hike and, in some cases, the fee structure is almost similar to last year’s. 

 Of the 17 private medical colleges in the state, fee structures for 11 colleges have been released. Last year, some of the colleges were allowed to raise their fees by up to Rs 1.5-2 lakh.
 
 The structures of K J Somaiya Medical College in Mumbai, Kashibai Navale in Pune, and even the one-year-old Vedantaa Institute of Medical Sciences from Palghar, which ran into controversy after quoting the highest fees among private colleges last year, are yet to be decided. These colleges have been called for FRA review meetings.
 
  
  
 
 FRA is a quasi-judicial body that regulates fees of private and unaided professional institutions. This is an annual exercise based on financial statements produced by institutions. Among the 11 private MBBS colleges whose fees for the 2018-19 batch have been released, those of   in Ratnagiri is the highest at Rs 8.4 lakh, up from last year’s Rs 7.8 lakh, followed by SMBT Institute on Nashik where the hike works out to Rs 50,000, as the fees are up to Rs 8 lakh from Rs 7.5 lakh. In most of the other colleges, the hike is Rs 10,000 to Rs 20,000. The fee regulator, established under a 2015 Act (see box), is headed by retired high court judge Justice M N Gilani.
 
 Meanwhile, Vedantaa is the only private college to be established under the Companies Act, which had sought Rs 14 lakh fees in the first year of its inception in 2017. It had also sought exemption from FRA’s jurisdiction. However, FRA ruled that being a private and professional institute, the college would fall under its purview.
 
 While FRA has already ruled that Vedantaa comes under its jurisdiction, the college is yet to accept the order and has sought a review. “FRA is open to a review meeting with all colleges that have a problem with fees decided by the authority. In many cases there are mistakes in the process of filling data, which will be considered during the review. The process is computerized and the documents are also scrutinized by a separate cell,” said the member.
 
 Sudha Shenoy, a member of an informal parents’ association of aspiring medical students, called this year’s hikes “reasonable”.
 
 “Though the fees of some of the sought-after colleges are still awaited, the picture currently looks better than last year. Private colleges that are regulated by FRA should not be charging fees to the tune of Rs 8-14 lakh on the lines of deemed universities. Last year, colleges like Walawalkar in Pune had seen a steep rise in fees,” said Shenoy.
 
 Though for many private college fees are unaffordable, a parent said families of medical aspirants budget their spending based on previous year’s fees and a steep rise in any given year is not fair on their pockets.
 
 Colleges, on their part, called the hikes “unfair” to them. An official from a college near Mumbai said that based on their expenditure, they had expected a fee structure of Rs 11-12 lakh. The fees released by the authority thus have been disappointing. “They cannot have a uniform process to decide the fee structure of all colleges. Some of the colleges in big cities spend a lot on infrastructure and land and their expenses are doubled. They cannot follow a set computerized process for all,” said the official.
 
  in Pune said they have challenged the validity of the 2015 Act, which is pending the court. “The government cannot follow such an ad hoc process to decide fee structures. The expenditure of a college in Mumbai cannot be the same as a that in Dhule. We will try and insist on an early hearing,” said Inamdar.
 
 
