Mohali: The local bodies department of Punjab is all set to implement the comprehensive and uniform Punjab Municipal Outdoor Advertisement Policy and By-Laws 2018. The new advertisement policy will come into force by April this year. Announcement regarding the decision was made by local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday. 

  Listing the salient features of the draft of new advertisement policy, the minister said nobody would be allowed to display advertisements on the rooftops. According to the policy, shopkeepers would only be allowed to display a single advertisement per floor on their shops and that too would be of a fixed size. The shopkeepers would be given a time-frame of two months for taking down the boards put up earlier. Besides this, the advertisements to be displayed on the spaces given in urban centres would also be of a particular size. Advertisement hoardings defacing the buildings in various markets of the city will be brought down by March end after which the new policy will get enforced. Punjab government has sought public objections and suggestions before January end.
 
 In the earlier Municipal Act, there was a provision to remove any illegal advertisement or board but sans any imposition of penalties. So, the new draft would also include amending the earlier Municipal Act thereby levying hefty penalties as well as entailing imprisonment.
 
 The minister further said the main aim of framing the advertisement policy is to increase the income of the urban local bodies and penalize the violators through stringent laws. Apart from this, the policy aims at bringing in uniformity and giving a cleaner and more organised look to the city. 
 
 Stating that the need to frame a new policy arose from the ineffectiveness of the earlier advertisement policy which was sans any provision to levy any punishment or penalty on the violators, Sidhu added that the new policy would be broadly based on enacting the laws and implementing them in letter and spirit.
 
 Sidhu further added that the draft also entails forming of flying squads to ensure compliance with the provisions of the policy which would conduct random checks to make sure that the advertisement boards have been displayed as per the policy. Any person or department can send their suggestions and feedback till January 31 through e-mails and also at the Sector 35, Chandigarh, Municipal Bhawan office of the Director, Local Government and these suggestions would be considered for being included in the policy.
 
 
