JAIPUR: In an era of CCTVs and mobile tracking devises, the traditional   informers or ‘Mukhbirs’ may fast be fading into oblivion, though they have often saved their handlers from embarrassing headlines by sharing tip offs about crimes at the eleventh hour. With the nature of crime investigation changing, the ‘Mukhbirs’ have given way to the modern police methods like call detail records, trail of ATM transactions, forensics and mobile data location, which comes handy in cracking blind crimes.

 
 “The topography of crime itself has changed over the years. The criminal now longer lives in the same locality or close to the crime spot. They come from different cities, commit crimes and flee. Thus, you rely on better tools that are at your disposal,” said Prafulla Kumar, additional commissioner of Jaipur police (crime) who has spearheaded many of the major criminal investigations.
 
 Being a police informer, however, entails risks. First, there are hardly any monetary benefits involved now. Second, the risk of being double-crossed always looms large.
 
 Shiva (name changed), a police informant, said many of his ilk moonlight as ‘mukhbirs’ without their family members and close friends being aware of their ‘part-time skills’. Shiva belongs to the last remaining tribe of informants who continue to help police, provided the help is sought for. “We only share the information that is asked for. We don’t get too friendly or irk cops,” he said, adding that an informer who voluntarily shares a half-baked input runs the risk of inviting unfriendly glare by cops.
 
 Lower rung cops, on the other hand, rue that informants are not paid regularly and often beat constables posted at the district special branch (DSBs) have to shell out money to pay to their sources. “There is a fund on paper. But it is meagre, hence we can only provide some small considerations to them but nothing beyond that,” said an official.
 
 Some of the informers are also former offenders who were booked for crimes ranging from bootlegging to pickpocketing. They later joined the legion of informers. Yet being an informer doesn’t give them immunity from the law.
 
 “There have been incidents where we have booked informers who were found to be involved in crime. We don’t simply lap up every information that is given to us on a platter, each input is diligently examined,” said deputy commissioner of police (crime branch) Vikas Pathak, adding that an informer comes from a diverse background.
 
 While the informants may be a diminishing lot, but the good ones are still called for, in many operations like in Mansarovar gold heist, keeping track of illegal weapon smugglers and gambling, the informers work closely with DSBs.
 
