Burning up the stage for more than three decades, blues marvel   ‘Wolfman’ Washington and his long running band The Roadmasters have their 'stars' to thank, literally. Some people look for skill, some for showmanship and some for energy and experience in the perfect band mate. When Washington went about forming his own band, his checklist posed a rather unusual question: “What star sign are you?”

 In Mumbai to play at the   festival the 74-year-old in an oversized suit and a flat cap, explains, “See, I was having trouble finding band members. Some I could communicate with and some not… Figured it was because they weren’t all compatible with my sign. Now I’ve had this band for 31 years – made up of Libras, Virgos and Capricorns – all compatible with me.”
 
 Like a true Sagittarian undaunted by skeptics, he continues. “I tell other cats (nickname for musicians) too – always get cats compatible to your sun sign – makes it easier to explain exactly what you want them to do.” Not just with band mates, it works all the way around now. “The name comes later. First, it’s always the sign!” he laughs.
 
 Acknowledging a force outside the self and interpreting it in life-enhancing ways comes easy to Washington who took the blues out of its roots in African-American sufferings and gave it a gloriously sunny sound. “My songs are mostly happy. I don’t like sad songs,” says Washington, the sort of bluesman who calls himself a "shepherd of music" with 46 weddings on his coveted roster of gigs. “Everybody has the blues but not everyone can express it. I play to make that difference, make people want to better their lives.”
 
 Like most African-American musicians in the South, Washington started out by singing in school, church and an acapella spiritual group in his neighbourhood in New Orleans. His first tryst with a guitar was when he sculpted one for himself with a cigar box, coat hanger and rubber bands.
 
 Today, Washington’s resume reads a lot like a brief history of the New Orleans music scene. He cut his teeth with R&B greats  , Irma Thomas, David Lastie Sr. and   before setting his own course. Having logged in close to 60 years of releasing albums and gigging steadily ever since he started out at 19, the septuagenarian is no pale shadow of his old self. Teaching blues to “four young cats” and planning new songs with his band once a week, Washington still holds court at the live music institution Maple Leaf Bar every Sunday.
 
 And like every man who owes his success to a woman, Washington owes his to many – Lavie, Caroline, Stacy and the flat-bottomed, full-bodied Big Borte in red, currently accompanying him on his maiden trip to India. These companions are in reality names of his trusted electric guitars that he doesn’t sleep with tucked under his pillow anymore – like he used to when he started making music – but still holds close to his heart, or rather his ear, as a tiny guitar dangles from his lobe. 
 
 If there’s one more thing that arouses curiosity, it is his middle name “Wolfman”. Some say it stems from his trademark howl on stage and some say it came about after he lost his front teeth trying to strum the guitar with it that made his canines more prominent. Washington, however, reveals a more nuanced back-story. “I’d actually been nicknamed ‘War War’ because I’d go around different bands, jump on their guitars with mine and start a music battle. Later on, a friend suggested that I start calling myself ‘Wolfman’ because I wasn’t fighting but wolfing on them,” he explains. Washington says he has mostly done away with the bad wolf-like behaviour, although his big, wide wolfish grin still abounds. 
 
