TRICHY: An   affiliated with the Railways faced a tough time on Saturday in convincing a minor from Bihar to cooperate with legal procedures for his rehabilitation, here on Saturday. Social workers of Project for Children who are in Contact with   (CCRS) rescued four children, all below 18 years of age, at the Trichy railway junction on Friday night.

 Upon inquiry, the four boys said that they were from Bihar and looking for jobs in  . After staying the night at the facility at the railway junction, the NGO brought the four boys to their centre at Cantonment before producing them before the child welfare committee (CWC) in the city.
 
 One of the boys, however, showed stiff resistance from appearing before the CWC and tried his best to escape. Despite counselling and advice from a social worker well versed in Hindi, the boy remained hostile. When he was taken out, he grabbed on to a car to stay put and prevented the car from moving. On information, Railway Protection Force (RPF) and   (GRP) arrived and tried their best to convince him. He stood firm on his demand that he should be let off.
 
 Eventually, NGO officials made him understand the legal procedures to be followed and convinced him to appear for the CWC enquiry. “All the four boys were handed over to CWC who will decide their next move,” K Govindaraju, project director of CCRS told TOI. 
 
 CWC will make arrangements to send them back home or stay at a recognised reception home in Trichy.
 
 Launched on January 23 this year, the NGO has so far rescued 216 children including 198 boys and 18 girls at the Trichy railway junction.
 
 Many of the rescued children had left home owing to poor performance in academics followed by reprimanding from parents or in search of job driven by poverty. In some cases, brokers had hired the boys from north India for a meagre sum from their parents to employ them in rice mills in Thanjavur for paltry remuneration.
 
 Of the rescued children, 56 boys and three girls were rehabilitated through CWC while 142 boys and 15 girls were reunited with their parents with the help of RPF and GRP.
 
 
