CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government has dropped a proposal for installing a massive statue of ‘Tamil mother’ in Vandiyur lake in Madurai. Instead, the statue will be installed in Madurai Tamil Sangam premises, styled like the famous   in Rome at a cost of Rs 50crore, said minister for Tamil official language and Tamil culture K  . 

 Former chief minister   had announced in the assembly in 2013 that a ‘Tamil thai (Tamil mother) statue would be installed at a cost of Rs 100crore in a lake in Madurai. The statue was to come up before 2018. 
 
 “We are planning to have a gallery that will be designed like the Trevi Fountain in Rome,” Pandiarajan told TOI. The Trevi Fountain is the largest Baroque fountain (European style architecture) in Rome and draws hordes of tourists. “The gallery will showcase the history and development of Tamil language. The state government has allocated Rs 15 lakh for the first phase of the gallery that will be housed in the Madurai Tamil Sangam premises,” said the minister. 
 
 Jayalalithaa had stated in the assembly that the Tamil thai statue was aimed at nurturing culture, tradition, literary treasures and architectural excellence of Tamils. The statue of saint-poet Thiruvalluvar installed in the sea off Kanyakumari in Tamil Nadu’s southern tip, constructed at a cost of more than Rs 6 crore, is the tallest in the state now and took nine years to erect. The height of the statute alone (without the pedestal) is 95 feet. Jayalalithaa had planned for a Tamil thai statue that would tower above even the Thiruvalluvar statue. 
 
 Parks resembling five terrains - kurinji (mountains), marudham (agriculture land), mullai (forests), neidhal (sea shore) and paalai (desert) - will come up around the statue, Jayalalithaa had announced. 
 
 Soon after the announcement, officials came up with the proposal to instal the statue in the middle of the Vandiyur lake in Madurai. “We wanted to design it like the Buddha statue in   lake in Hyderabad. But, we could not get approval from the environment ministry and locally too residents opposed the statue in the middle of a lake,” said the minister. 
 
 The second hurdle which the government faced was with regard to the height of the statue. “Local residents are opposed to anything in Madurai city which is bigger or taller than the   temple towers. We have to respect peoples’ beliefs and decided to have a beautiful statue of Tamil mother within the Sangam building,” said Pandiarajan. 
 
