KOLKATA: Several city students who are appearing for the Joint Entrance Examination Main 2018 this Sunday are unhappy with the allotment of seats in suburban towns that will force them to travel nearly two hours to reach the examination centres. With the examination scheduled to begin at 9.30am and students required to report an hour-and-a-half earlier for checks, some examinees have to start off at 5am to reach the centre well in time.

  
  
 
 “For those wanting to study engineering at a premier institute, the   is the most important examination. We have been preparing for two years. Having to travel over 40km is not ideal on the morning of the examination. I have to wake up at 4-4.30am to start at 5am,” said   who lives in Jadavpur and has to travel to Barrackpore for the examination.
 
 For most engineering aspirants, JEE Main is crucial as it has to be cleared to be eligible for JEE Advanced, the final examination for entry into an   (IIT) or   (NIT).
 
 Rishi Mitra, who lives near   Phari, has to travel to Dakshineswar for the examination on Sunday. “I am keen to become an engineer. Like everyone else, there has been considerable investment, monetary and otherwise, in coaching classes to prepare for the exam. Having to travel such a distance is inconvenient to say the least,” he said.
 
 Some examinees have booked into guest houses and hotels near the exam centres and will go there on Saturday itself to prevent the hassle of having to start at dawn.
 
 Not everyone, however, has to face the ordeal. Suvorup Mukherjee who lives in Tollygunge is glad he doesn’t have to deal with the additional tension of travelling a long way since he has been allotted aseat at Abhinav Bharati on Pretoria Street. “Had the exam begun at 11pm or later, it would not have been a problem for anyone. But since it is at 9.30am, the travel time becomes a challenge,” he admitted.
 
 JEE Main officials said they had no hand in seat allotment as it was done randomly by a computer. “Since thousands apply to sit for the exam from Kolkata and seats at exam centres in the city are limited, they get exhausted early. Thereafter, centres in peripheral areas are allotted. Once they, too, get filled, candidates have to travel further to take the exam,” an official explained.
 
 There are 112 centres for the JEE Main pen-and-paper test across the country. The number of examination centres is higher for the online examination scheduled on April 15 and 16. Sources said the problem was particularly acute in Kolkata as candidates from several northeastern towns also preferred to sit for the exam here rather than travel to Guwahati.
 
 
