Thiruvananthapuram: With sea waves devouring a major chunk of the beach up to the road, the district collector has imposed restrictions on visit to Sanghumugham beach. The restrictions were put in effect on Tuesday from 3pm and collector said that it shall be in force for the next 48 hours. 

 Tourists and local residents have been advised to stay off the beach until the restrictions are lifted. The waves had advanced up to the   on Monday and police had to place barricades warning commuters to drive safely. The area was also cordoned off by the cops. 
 
 Major chunk of the beach, which is the favourite hangout spot of city residents, was taken over by sea waves on Monday night itself. On Monday, people came to the beach as usual. Many of them sat on the sea wall bordering the beach and road though life guards warned them of the risk. 
 
 The district administration decided to announce restrictions to prevent people from entering the beach. 
 
 Despite restrictions, the life guards are already on their feet mainly to keep away curious visitors. “Though we have installed red flags and warning boards on the beach people are not giving any attention to it. It seems like people and tourists have no fear. They are not at all cooperating with us. There are only four lifeguards in each shift to control numerous tourists. It is very hard for us to manage this massive crowd. From the past two days we have rescued five to seven people including kids from the rough waves,” said Selvaraj, a life guard.
 
 Barricades and cordon tapes seem to have nil effect on visitors. A resident of Attukal said that she had learned news of the advancing sea, but, out of excitement to see the high waves she came to the Shangumugham beach. Beachside vendors already feel the pinch.
 
 “This unexpected nature of the sea has made our lives harder. Due to the heavy tide people won’t stay for a long time which has affected our sales,” said Seenath, a beachside vendor. 
 
 On Tuesday sub-collector Inbasekhar ordered Shangumugham ACP to control entry of visitors to the beach and asked district tourism promotion council secretary to install warning boards on the beach. 
 
 By night, the police deployed additional force on the beach. “We are sending each and every visitor back. A team will be on duty round the clock on the beach,” said city police commissioner P Prakash. 
 
 The nearby beaches like the one in front of Vettucaud church are also under the surveillance of Valiyathura police. 
 
 The district administration will review the restrictions on Wednesday evening and decide on allowing tourists to the beach. 
 
 
