CHENNAI: HIV-positive patients in Chennai could be slipping through the state’s tracking system with the counselling and testing centers for them struggling to function with skeletal staff in the city. 

 Chennai has 46 Integrated   (ICTC), the highest in the state. Of this, 42 are under the Chennai Corporation and four are monitored directly by   AIDS Control Society (TANSACS). 
 
 However, with   featuring bottom-most in the city health department’s priority list -- following a drop in prevalence over the years -- counsellors at various ICTCs complain that lab technicians in these centers are often deputed to other departments in Corporation hospitals. “Screening is often affected in the process,” said a counsellor. “Patients are either asked to wait or return later, but they rarely do as most of them are part of a floating population,” she said. 
 
 The 42 ICTCs under corporation are managed by Chennai Corporation AIDS Prevention and Control Society ( ), a body set up by National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) in the late 90s, along with similar city-wings in Mumbai and Ahmedabad. In 2016, NACO, following a decline in HIV prevalence in Ahmedabad and Chennai, wrote to the state AIDS control societies in Gujarat and Tamil Nadu asking them to merge the city-specific operations with the state.
 
 A senior official in TANSACS said of the Rs 69 crore the state receives every year from NACO, at least Rs 6.9 crore goes for paying salaries of around 100 CAPACS staff. “The department is cash-strapped right now with NACO slashing funds. CAPACS is an additional burden,” he said. 
 
 Besides, financial difficulties, officials say the merger will also benefit HIV patients. “Besides helping us monitor these centres better, we can also fill the vacancies by deputing staff from ICTCs in other districts where the prevalence is low,” he said. Another official said the city AIDS control society was set up at a time when these centers were available only in Chennai. “Now we have sufficient testing centers in the districts. The body is now obsolete,” he said.
 
 At present, there are 1,264 ICTCs and 55 antiretroviral therapy centers for HIV/AIDS people in Tamil Nadu. The state has 1.43 lakh people living with HIV and sees around 3,000-4,000 new cases a year. The state has a current prevalence rate of 0.28%, just above the national rate of 0.27%.
 
 Chennai Corporation officials said they are preparing a proposal for the merger which will be placed before CAPACS’s general body. Sources say the move is likely to face opposition from CAPACS.
 
