LUCKNOW: Two groups of lawyers exchanged blows over a monetary dispute outside a mall in   on Wednesday evening. One lawyer was injured in the incident. 

 Police reached the spot and took the two groups to Hazratganj police station. Later, scores of lawyers from the two sides protested outside Hazratganj police station. A battalion of Rapid Action Force, which was camping near the police station, came to the spot and dispersed the protesting lawyers.
 
 Cross-FIRs were lodged by the two groups against each other, police said.
 
 According to police, advocate   of Bakshi Ka Talab had allegedly taken Rs 2 lakh from advocate Ajay Kumar Sharma on the pretext of providing job to latter's relative. But later Chauhan refused to return the money, alleged Sharma. On Wednesday, Chauhan and Sharma met outside a mall in Hazratganj to sort out the matter. They were accompanied by many lawyers. The discussion turned into a verbal spat and soon the two sides started exchanging blows. The traffic on the road came to a halt.
 
 Police were informed and a team arrived at the spot. But as the advocates outnumbered the cops, additional force was called in. Police separated the fighting lawyers and took them to Hazratganj police station. 
 
 Shiv Bahadur Singh Chauhan suffered injuries in the attack and was given primary-aid. 
 
 Chauhan alleged he was carrying Rs 2 lakh which was snatched from him by Sharma's aides. Meanwhile, Sharma's aide Sharad   alleged that Chauhan and his men snatched his gold chain during the attack. 
 
 ASP (east) Sarvesh   said cross-FIRs were lodged. Mishra said a case for loot was registered on the complaint of Chauhan against his rivals, while a case of rioting, forgery, criminal breach of trust, thrashing and loot was registered on the complaint of Sharma and Sharad. 
 
 Police Spokesperson AK Singh said that two more FIRs were also registered. One was lodged by   on charges of provoking breach of peace, and kidnapping against   and Chauhan. While another was registered by Yadav against Chauhan for loot and criminal breach of trust. 
 
 
