New Delhi: For the first time, six teachers from Delhi government schools have been selected for the   Teaching Excellence and Achievement Programme. The teachers, who were to leave for the US early on Tuesday, will be interacting with teachers of 40 other countries.

 According to Deepti Chawla, a mentor teacher in English picked for the programe, the selections this year were a surprise for everybody because it’s the first time that all six are from government schools. “Usually we have just one or maximum two teachers from a DoE school; all the others are from private schools. This time, to everybody’s surprise, all teachers from Delhi are from government schools,” she told TOI.
 
 This, she said, was possible because of the support provided to the teachers by the government. “During my application, I had to give a number of essays, my published papers and other samples of work, besides the letters of recommendation and statement of purpose. I had already written in journals and published a few poems, which were possible because of the   department’s support,” she said.
 
 Chawla said that during the final screening interview, there were 28 candidates, with 12 from DoE schools and the remaining from private schools. “During my stay in the US, I am looking forward to interacting with the teachers from 40 countries. This is no small feat. There will be a lot to learn from these teachers during those interactions,” she said. Chawla did her undergraduate studies from Delhi University’s Gargi College.
 
 Murari Jha, a social science teacher, was also awarded with the education minister’s special award in September 2017. An alumnus of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, he is currently pursuing his doctorate from Jamia Millia Islamia. His thesis is on integrating children’s writings with prescribed social science curriculum. He also runs a regular blog.
 
 Like Chawla, Jha hopes to learn from the teachers of the 40 countries and use the exposure and opportunity in the US to bring back solutions to everyday problems.
 
 Also a part of the selected team are Anju Pathak, a maths mentor teacher at Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in Mayur Vihar; Manu Gulati, an English mentor teacher from Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya II in Punjabi Bagh; Stuti Gaur, a special educator from Georgi Stoikov Rakovski Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya; and Manisha Pavi, a maths teacher from Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in Adarsh Nagar.
 
 Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said it was a proud moment for the capital, especially because all of them were from Delhi government schools. “I have always believed Delhi’s teachers are very talented. It is heartening to see they are receiving international recognition,” he said.
 
 
