KOLKATA: Undeterred by a writ petition filed in the Calcutta High Court alleging CID overreach, the agency on Tuesday again raided three apartments of former IPS officer   and recovered Rs 2.4 crore in cash. CID has so far seized Rs 3 crore in cash since the raids began four days back.

 “We have fulfilled all legal provisions and had the search warrant from the court. As the owner was not available, we had to break open the door and enter the flats. We also had to open the lockers and almirahs to recover the money. But we maintained all legal formalities. We had all our officers searched before entering the flat and again after completing the raid. The entire process was video-graphed,” DIG (CID-Operation) Nishat Parvez said.
 
 Ghosh in her statements to media and in her petition in the HC (her husband also filed a police complaint in this regard) had alleged that the CID had flouted legalities while conducting the search and seizure at their hom-es. “How can they conduct searches without the permission of the owner of the house? Not only that, the police did all sorts of nonsense inside the flat as there was no one to record their activities,” Ghosh’s lawyer   said. 
 
 To this, Parvez said: “We didn’t have the search warrant but fulfilled all legal formalities needed to conduct a search without a warrant”.
 
 Though Parvez was reluctant to admit that the apartments belonged to Ghosh or her husband, he said the raid was conducted based on a statement by  , the 60-year-old caretaker of Ghosh’s Madurdaha flat. 
 
 “On the basis of the statement, we raided the flat and recovered Rs 2.4 crore. The search is on and there might be more recoveries,” he added. 
 
 CID said that the raids were conducted in three flats in Kolkata — at Madurdaha, Sarat Chatterjee Avenue and Naktala.
 
 Amid speculation that Ghosh may join BJP, the party’s state president   said she has spoken to some of the party’s central leaders. However, no instruction came to the   state unit from central leaders regarding her joining the party, he said.
 
 
