Hyderabad:   Kurban Husain, a man of fine taste and astute business sense, used to concoct attars at home as a hobby and sell explosives at his shop – Haji Kurban Husain Mulla Abdul Taiyeb -- near Golkonda Fort.

 While the exact date or year of the setting up of this establishment is not known, Husain’s family goes with the year 1894 because the license for selling explosives carries of this year.
 
 “My grandfather – Haji Kurban Husain – lost his mother when he was one year old and was raised by his maternal grandfather – Haji Badruddin – and his maternal uncle – Mulla Ehsan Ali, who trained him in business. When my grandfather was 13 years old, his maternal uncle decided that it was time for him to go solo. So with a capital of Rs 300, he started dabbling in various ideas before zeroing in on the explosives business at Golkonda Fort area as it was a military area,” says Ali Shajee Taiyebi, a member of the third generation who runs the shop -- Haji Kurban Husain Mulla Abdul Taiyeb – in Osmania Bazaar near Charminar.
 
 Business at Golkonda was robust but as the bazaars of Golkonda started losing sheen, Haji Kurban Husian shifted the shop to Char Kaman area near Charminar, where along with ammunitions and explosives, he also sold general items such as handkerchiefs, shoe laces and pens, among others.
 
 But the 1908 floods ravaged the shops in this area and he was forced to move temporarily to the ‘Shahi Rathkhana Stores’ area, (where royal carriages used to be parked and is now known as Osmania Bazaar).
 
 After the floods, the then City Improvement Board (CIB) decided to construct the Pathergatti Arcade near Char Kaman to help shops shift back after construction work was over but it took so much time that by then the Shahi Rathkhana Stores area transformed into a market.
 
 “At that time, the shop was considered to be a one-stop-shop as every item that a household required was available here. Business flourished and branches were set up at Gulzar Houz and Abids and these two stores were later called – Haji Kurban Husain & Sons,” recounts Ali Shajee Taiyebi.
 
 When Haji Kurban Husain divided his property, he gave the Abids and Gulzar Houz shops to three sons and the Osmania Bazaar shop to the other three sons. It was decided that the shops will not compete with each other and will have different businesses, as a result of which the Osmania Bazaar shop moved on to sell cutlery and general household items whereas the Abids and Gulzar Houz shops started retailing leather items, horse saddles, revolver cases, military belts, leather suitcases, holdalls, among others.
 
 Today the Osmania Bazaar shop still stands tall and sells crockery items while Haji Kurban Husain & Sons shop in Abids has moved to Punjajutta and the Gulzar Houz shop has been leased out.
 
 The legacy of Haji Kurban Husain has been aptly carried forward by his grandchildren and the third generation has been running the show. “The reason we have been around for so long is because everybody in the family, at one point of time or other, has been associated with the business. For example, it was duty of the school going children in the family to go to the shop before school and set up things. My grandfather had the habit of encouraging kids when they returned from school by telling them that the wares they put out in the morning were sold and would even award them some token amount…” he explains.
 
 The best part is that not just the kids even the womenfolk used to help in the business, which was quite unheard of in those days. “My wife Fatima Taiyebi used to assist my father when he was unwell. My brother’s wives too have been associated with business,” he adds.
 
 But with the changing times the nature of business has changed. Ali Shajee Taiyebi rues that e-commerce platforms and the hordes of hawkers, who throng the Charminar area have had an impact on their business.
 
 Similarly, Mujahid Husain, who is the partner at Haji Kurban Husain & Sons (Punjagutta Store that sells travel ware) points out “Our business has certainly been hit as people have a lot of choice now. Earlier, If one had to travel...the only shop one would have to visit was ours...Even online websites give steep discounts and no questions are asked on return of the good but we can’t be doing it,” he explains.
 
 Despite testing times, both cousins -- Ali Shajee Taiyebi and Mujahid Husain -- have been managing their respective business but a major worry seems to be the future as most of the kids in the fourth generation have chosen professional careers. While there is uncertainly, both brothers feel not all is lost as they are sure they will be able to find a solution when the time comes.
 
 
