 As Pune awaits for one of its most innovative event of theatre ‘Pune Natyasattak Rajani’, the city based theatre artist is all set to showcase the celebrated theatrical plays of the city together. In total, 29 performances by 27 groups were being showcased at five different venues, in the seven day long festival.
  
  The festival kick-started with the play  , a two-act play by senior theatre personality Pradeep Vaiddya, whereas the festival will conclude with another innovative theatre enthusiast Niranjan Pedanekar’s Bengal Tiger at   Zoo. 
 
  “The festival showcased the best city based plays of 2017, providing a common platform for the theatre artist to perform and witness the best of theatre works. It also gave a community feeling where the theatre lovers come together and celebrates it as an art form,” says Pradeep Vaidya.
  
  Along with these plays, Aasakta’s famous play Gajab Kahani, directed by   will be showcased in the festival on January 14. The play traces the journey of an elephant from India and his friendship with his mahout while they undertake an epic journey to Europe. “The festival will also give an opportunity to watch Venunaad, a solo by Ashwini Giri and Tuka Mhane, a dancical performance by Arundhati Patwardhan. The festival will cater the audiences of almost all the age groups and of varying artistic taste also,” adds Kushal. 
  Two groups from Hindi theatre – Swatantra and   also featured their plays namely  , and Nawab Ki Akal Gadhon Ki Shakal respectively. Famous play Bhumika by Maharashtra Cultural Center, Ata Kay Karaycha Rao by Blinking Spot productions and Phera by Taandav performed at the festival. “The story of Jis Lahore Dekha Nahi Woh Jamya Nahi, is set in 1947. The play revolves around an old Hindu woman in Lahore who, robbed of her son and family as a result of the riots at partition refuses to be robbed of her home by a Muslim refugee family from Lucknow,” says Dhanashree Heblikar from Swatantra Theatre. 
  In total, 29 performances of 27 groups will be showcased at 5 different venues namely Sudarshan Rangmanch, Jyotsna Bhole Sabhagruha, Bharat Natya Mandir, Yashwantrao Chavan Natyagruha and Balgandharva Rangmandir in the 7 day long festival.
  
 
