Madurai: A public interest litigation (PIL) has been filed before the Madurai bench of the Madras high court stating that the government should not collect the revised fares in buses until it strictly adheres to the   Vehicles Rules.

 Karur-based advocate M   filed the PIL. He said the state government operates 22,509 buses through its public transport corporations. The corporation has classified those buses as mofussil, city (MTC), ordinary, express, deluxe, by-pass non-stop, ultra deluxe, air-conditioned and  .
 
 The government revised the bus fare in January. However, it collects fare without following mandatory procedure mentioned in the   Rules. As per rules, the transport corporations should disclose the mandatory particulars including bus fare and time schedule and contain first aid things.
 
 As per the revised fare, the fare in ordinary bus is 58 paise per km, in express bus it is 75 paise per km, in deluxe bus it is 85 paise per km and in ultra deluxe bus one rupee per km. Accordingly, one has to pay Rs 102 to travel from Madurai to   in an express bus, but Rs 116 to Rs 120 is collected.
 
 Besides, the corporations operate majority of ordinary buses as express services, just by affixing stickers on the vehicles. As per the aforesaid rules, express service buses shall stop and pick up passengers once every 25km of the total distance. Also, those buses take more time to complete the journey. This has resulted in commuters switching over to private buses.
 
 Further, as per the rules, the transport corporations had not obtained approval from the transport authorities to operate ordinary bus as express service and to give a separate colour for each category of buses. However, the transport corporations failed to follow those procedures.
 
 Hence, it was necessary to issue a direction to the state’s transport secretary to strictly follow the rules and till then, the transport corporations should be restrained from collecting the revised fare. The division bench headed by justice M Sathyanarayanan adjourned the case by two weeks.
 
 
