Nagpur: The state government’s decision to form two Special Investigation Teams (SITs) to probe the alleged   scam has drawn scepticism from various quarters. The whistle blowers say it appears to be an eyewash. The very BJP government which made it a prominent election agenda is now dragging its feet for obvious reasons said those who had raised a voice against corruption in the irrigation sector.

 The case is at present being investigated by Nagpur and Amravati units of the state Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB). Much of the action has taken place in Nagpur unit, which is investigating 40 tenders of the Gosikhurd dam, and has filed 14 FIRs. The Amravati unit is probing the tenders issued for works under Jigaon dam project, and has filed one FIR.
 
 Vijay Pandhre, an officer of chief engineer rank in state’s water resources department (WRD), who first wrote about the irrigation scam to then chief minister Prithviraj Chavan, said, “It appears there is no political will to cleanse the system. Even the BJP is shielding former minsters who held the WRD ministry then.”
 
 Now retired, Pandhre said, “So far 15 FIRs have been registered by the ACB and those booked include officers from executive director to even secretaries. However, the final approval comes from the minister, who heads the department. All the orders carry the minister’s signature, then why should they not be booked?” he questioned.
 
 NCP bigwig Ajit Pawar and his close associate Sunil Tatkare had held the WRD ministry during the periods when contracts under investigation were granted.
 
 Prior to the ACB probe, a white paper was submitted by the Chitale Committee headed by Madhav Chitale, a former secretary in state government. “The report did not touch upon several aspects, yet it confirmed that there were irregularities in the affairs. He had recommended that a high power committee should be formed to probe the cases. Even I wrote a letter to him, pointing out 35 types of corrupt practices in irrigation works. But no cognisance was taken, no committee was formed either,” said Pandhre.
 
 Chitale told TOI that he did not keep track of what happened after the report was submitted. 
 
 Sharad Patil, president of Jan Manch, the NGO which filed a PIL in this matter, said, “It is obvious that the state government is dragging its feet in the matter. Merely forming SITs will not be enough, it has to be given enough freedom to work.”
 
 SITs to be formed soon: CM Fadnavis
 
 Formation of the SITs depends on an order from chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, for appointment of two officers of deputy superintendent of police (DySP) rank to head each of the teams. The state government in an affidavit before the court has stated that two SITs will be formed to investigate irrigation tenders granted in Nagpur and Amravati divisions of Vidarbha.
 
 The Director General of Police (DGP) has already issued orders to appoint 34 officers of police inspector rank in the team. However, the appointment of DySPs needs an order from the ministry of home, which is headed by Fadnavis.
 
 Replying to TOI’s query, Fadnavis said the appointment orders will be issued ‘soon’. Sources say even if the orders have been issued by the DGP, it can take time for the inspectors to joint the  . The officers are posted in different locations throughout the states. Now, it is up to their immediate bosses to relieve them to join the SIT.
 
 At present, the probe is being carried out by ACB. Once the SIT is formed, the work is expected to be taken over by the team, which will deal exclusively with the irrigation cases.
 
 
