JAIPUR:The   project that finally gained momentum hit the roadblock at   after water resources department raised objection on the construction on irrigation land. 

 The   on Wednesday has put on hold on the Ring Road works after objection. The work came to a halt following the directions of the empowered committee for conservation of water bodies.
 
 A senior official at water resource department said, “The committee had written to the water resources department and Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) regarding complaints of Ring Road being constructed in Nevta lake area. Our department has forwarded a copy of the letter to   to comply with the committee's direction,” he said.
 
 A JDA official informed, earlier the plan of JDA to acquire land of Nevta dam which is coming in the alignment of the 47-km Ring Road fell flat. The irrigation department had refused to give possession of land as it would disturb the capacity area.
 
 According to officials, nearly 1,100 metre of irrigation land in Nevta dam is overlapping the Ring Road. The main dam is nearly 1.5 kilometre away from the ‘capacity area’. The JDA had planned to take the possession of land in the catchment area like Mej dam where the JDA has constructed the road. The proposal was earlier sent to the irrigation department. However, despite several reminders, the irrigation department remains adamant not to surrender the land.
 
 According to sources, “In past , the irrigation department wrote that at the capacity area of dam at gauge 16-feet is 236.72 million cubic feet (mcft). The total catchment area of the dam is 443, 583 hectare. Moreover the road will be constructed on 60.3 hectare land. The ring road would affect nearly 102 hectare area.”
 
 Earlier, the irrigation department had also raised objections to the alignment of Ring Road. On the contrary, a JDA official said on the 1,100-metre land, the JDA had proposed to construct an elevated road and it would not affect the capacity of the dam. But, the idea was not appreciated as it would increase the cost.
 
 
