Vadodara: Baroda skipper Deepak Hooda has been picked up for Indian team that will tour Sri Lanka for the triangular T20 series next month. While Hooda was picked up for the Indian T20 team last year too, but he wasn’t included in the playing XI. The 23-year-old cricketer, however, may finally get to play in the team this time. The tournament will begin on March 6 and finals will be on March 18.  “I got picked up in the Indian team last year but couldn’t get into playing XI. This time I am hoping to play and also perform well. It seems that my good performance in this season got me in the Indian team again,” Hooda said. “Hooda has performed very well in this season. He led the team from the front and also scored runs. Baroda won all the four-day Ranji games under his captaincy and also did well in the one-dayers and T20 tournament,” said Baroda coach, Atul Bedade. “He is now maturing as a player,” Bedade told TOI. Hooda was highest scorer for Baroda in Vijay Hazare Trophy this season as he gathered 352 runs in seven matches at an average of 50.28.  Hooda was consistently knocking on the doors of the Indian team after he was awarded best all-rounder of the year in domestic limited over games by BCCI last year. He has played 31 first class matches in which he scored 2,208 runs at an average of 50.18. His highest score is 293 runs. Not many know that Hooda has a distinction of scoring a century in his debut match in Under-16, Under-23 and even the four-day Ranji Trophy in 2014. Hooda took over Baroda Ranji team’s captaincy this season after the selectors dropped Irfan Pathan.  Hooda had represented India in the Under-19 World Cup in 2014 and was later picked up by Rajasthan Royals in Indian Premier League (IPL). “It’s heartening to see Hooda get selected in the Indian team. Our woman player Radha Yadav too is set to make international debut. Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) has been focusing on producing international cricketers by providing quality facilities,” said Snehal Parikh, BCA secretary (in-charge).