NEW DELHI: A seven-year-old girl died and a dozen other schoolchildren were grievously injured after their van was rammed by a milk truck near Keshavpuram in northwest Delhi on Thursday morning. Witnesses said that the Maruti Omni van, which was carrying 18 students, overturned several times after being hit. Police disclosed that the drivers of both the vehicles have been arrested. 

 
  
  
 According to people at the site of the  , the van carrying students of Kendriya Vidyalaya and  , both located in Keshavpuram Part I, deviated from its run to take a sudden left turn at the crossing on Bhagwan Mahavir Marg apparently to be able reach a service lane on the opposite side. An incoming milk truck could not stop in time and crashed into the Omni.
 
 Sakshi Chauhan, a student of Kendriya Vidyalaya, suffered severe injuries on her head, neck and arms, and doctors disclosed she died of excessive bleeding. Vijay, the van  , mildly injured, fled from the spot when people started gathering. Locals took the injured children, all students of class II-VII, to different hospitals. Twelve have been hospitalised, two with critical injuries, while five others were lucky enough to be discharged after first aid.
 
 Aslam Khan, DCP (northwest), said, “We have registered a case of culpable homicide under Section 304 of IPC and for   driving under Section 279.” After preliminary investigation, police said the drivers of the two vehicles, Vijay and Sanjiv Kumar, faced arrest, the former under the motor Vehicles Act for driving on the wrong side, the latter for culpable homicide for driving under the influence. 
 
 It appears that a bigger disaster was averted. “A CNG cylinder rolled out of the van as it overturned and could have exploded,” said Nathuram, a temple priest who saw the accident. “When the policemen arrived, they kept a distance as they suspected that the cylinder might burst.”
 
 After Vijay was apprehended, he told the cops that he normally drove with children from Wazirpur, Bharat Nagar and Ashok Vihar, along the service lane going towards the traffic signal near the Kanhaiya Nagar metro station. Police disclosed that most residents of Bharat Nagar regularly used this wrong side of the 500 metre-stretch because the U-turn on the right side was almost a kilometre away.
 
 Sanjiv Kumar (38), for his part, told police that he had slammed the brakes on seeing the speeding van, but could not avoid the collision. 
 
 Sanjiv ferries milk from Ghaziabad for delivery to dealers in Chandni Chowk and Jahangirpuri. Police contacted the van owner, Raj Kumar, who is likely to be booked because the van is 16-years-old and had a local CNG kit.
 
 There was a protest later in the day. “For some time, we have been demanding the posting of a traffic police team at the crossing to check driving on the wrong side,” said Anand Kumar, member of the residents’ welfare association. “But policemen are posted for a few days after each accident and then they disappear.”
 
 
