Nagpur: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has directed all its 112 corporators at Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to submit their resignation letters to the party. Wary of a revolt by some corporators over selection of chairman and members of standing committee, the saffron party has come up with the unusual missive.

 Following directives of BJP city president Sudhakar Kohle, ruling party leader Sandip Joshi has asked 112 corporators — 108 elected and four co-opted — to submit their resignation letters before the general body meeting on February 3. BJP sources told TOI over 60% corporators have already submitted their resignation letters.
 
 The BJP will have to select one of its 108 elected corporators for the post of standing committee chairman, and 11 as members for 2018-19 fiscal. Announcement of candidate for post of chairman is likely early next month.
 
 Joshi told TOI it was a regular exercise in the BJP. “Party used to take resignation letters from corporators immediately after municipal elections. This time, the party forgot to take resignation letters in February last year. Therefore, corporators have been asked to submit it now. I was the first to submit resignation letter to Kohle,” he said.
 
 Some senior BJP corporators told TOI on condition of anonymity it was an old tradition in the party but abandoned since 2012 municipal elections. “We were not asked for such letters after getting elected in February last year. Why suddenly party leaders needed resignation letters,” they questioned.
 
 NMC sources told TOI some senior BJP corporators demanded standing committee chairman post to couple of senior corporators from South Nagpur. “Also, these senior corporators have warned of revolt against the party if their demand is not fulfilled. Already, BJP got some setback with Nana Patole’s resignation from Bhandara-Gondia Lok Sabha constituency. Katol MLA Ashish Deshmukh too has started to raise voices against the party. Some corporators are not happy with Kohle. Therefore, BJP does not want to take any risk, that too with only a year for Lok Sabha elections. BJP leaders think corporators will not revolt in case their resignation letters are collected in advance,” sources said.
 
 BJP has prepared a format of the resignation letters. Staffers from BJP office are calling corporators to inform them about the decision, and also sending them the form on their mobiles using social media. Corporators are asked to fill in the details on their letter heads and submit it with their signature.
 
 The BJP’s missive has created unrest among corporators. Kohle said a meeting will be held with corporators to clarify any confusion in their minds in coming days.
 
 Many BJP corporators said on condition of anonymity they were upset with the party’s move. Senior BJP corporator Jagdish Gwalbanshi said it was very unfortunate to learn about the party’s decision. “I did not receive any call but came to know about this from other corporators. I will follow whatever my party wants me to do. But this indicates my party leaders do not have faith in me, so they are taking resignation letters. Party has all the right to take action in case of revolt or anti-party activities by any corporator. Therefore, there is no need to take resignation letters from corporators,” he said.
 
 The BJP has not taken any such resignation letters from its legislators. “Party should have ensured this immediately after municipal elections. This missive will upset corporators as it comes after one year of election. Party leaders should have avoided it at this time,” said a BJP legislator.
 
 
