DHARWAD: With just four days left for polling, contestants in   are restless and are making last bid effort to woo the voters.

 Apart from countering their political rivals, they have also to counter the vigilance squads that are monitoring implementation of model code of conduct.
 
 Normally during elections 48 hours before the polling commences are vital for the contestants as this is the time they gear up for distributing freebies to the voters. But the election officials and flying squads overseeing the implementation of model code of conduct have stepped up the vigil.
 
 Those sponsoring liquor are not ready to take the risk of transporting it to the destination. Instead, they are asking the contestants to lift the material and transport it to the destination at their own risk. The excise department’s strict action against bars and liquor shops for violating bar licence conditions has also upset the political parties’ plans of keeping the voters in ‘high spirits’.
 
 The contestants and their campaign managers are looking at ways to hoodwink the vigilance squads by passing the communication through electronic gadgets. But the rival camps are using the same electronic gadgets to pass on information about the location of the freebies stored to the flying squads and helping them seize the materials purportedly kept for distribution to the voters.
 
 Dharwad district ranks second (after Bengaluru) in the state in poll seizures. So far the district election officials have seized 7.73 kg of gold estimated to be worth Rs 2.20 crore, 6.45 kg silver, liquor worth Rs 1.25 crore, 1,087 pressure cookers worth Rs 28 lakh, T-shirts worth Rs 2 lakh, 20 cars, 60 two-wheelers, two trucks and 3,840 saris worth Rs 6 lakh.
 
 “We had publicized the contact numbers of our flying squads. Members of the public and political parties are tipping us off on the locations of the materials (stored for distribution among voters) with sketch on WhatsApp and helping us in seizing the materials,” said district election officer and deputy commissioner S B Bommanahalli.
 
 The comparatively easier way for the contestants to lure voters is to distribute cash through their local representatives at booth level. While the candidates who were sure of getting the ticket have done the home work much before the enforcement of model code of conduct, those whose candidature was announced at the last moment are facing difficulty in reaching freebies to the voters.
 
 Refuting allegations that the election officials were soft towards the ruling party, DC Bommanahalli said all the members of flying squads were working sincerely as per law and guidelines of the Election Commission of India and there was no question of being biased towards any party or person. 
 
 “The locations from where we seized the materials and cash indicate that we are not sparing anybody,” Bommanahalli said and added that the squads will be still more alert during the next four days and make all out efforts to ensure free and fair polling.
 
 
