Kareena Kapoor’s Poo from ‘K3G’ would have been spoilt for choice if she had to pick her prom date from Indian  , as most actors tick all the boxes in her list – “good looks, good looks and good looks”. Be it  ,   or   (the list is long), male actors on TV have always had female fans swooning over their looks. However, they are no longer limited to just that role. While there was a time when male actors did not have strong roles and were just seen as eye candy, that is slowly changing now. Some of the leading   tell us that though most shows are still women-centric, strong male characters are being written now, so they don’t feel side-lined even if the main protagonist is a woman.

  
 
 
  Mohit Malik, who became a household name with his character Samrat Singh Rathore in ‘Doli Armaanon Ki’, is currently seen in ‘Kullfi Kumarr Bajewala’. Mohit’s character, Sikander, is a singer, and the father of a little girl Kullfi, who also wishes to be singer, but faces resistance from her mother because her father left them after becoming a successful. Though the show is about Kullfi’s journey and how she meets her father, you can’t miss Mohit here. Dressed in leather jackets and combat boots, he is quite flamboyant. The actor tells us that there is a definite shift in the way male characters are portrayed. He says, “Though not huge, but definitely a shift has happened. Now, there are more shows that have strong parts for male actors. Personally, I have always played powerful characters, somebody who takes the story forward and is author-backed. Not the ones where you just stand around and don’t have a say.”
 
  
  Vijayendra Kumeria
 
  
 
 
  In ‘Udann Sapnon Ki’, Vijayendra Kumeria plays Suraj Rajvanshi, the husband of the show’s protagonist Chakor (played by Meera Deosthale), and helps her fight against his father, a wealthy landlord. His character is as important to the story as the female protagonist. He tells us, “TV is not limited to saas bahu drama any longer. Currently, I am doing a show that is issue-based and not just limited to family politics. Unlike before, the male characters are substantial these days. I don’t have a problem in doing a show with a powerful female protagonist, but I will not do a show if I don’t have anything to do in it, as I feel bored as an actor when I don’t have much to perform.”
 
  
  Dheeraj Dhoopar
 
  
 
 
  A spin off of ‘Kumkum Bhagya’, ‘Kundali Bhagya’ see Dheeraj Dhoopar as Karan Luthra. Karan is a star cricketer, a Casanova of sorts with effortless charm. The show revolves around Karan, his brother Rishabh and their individual stories. The actor has also been a part of Sasural Simar Ka, and while the show wasn’t all about him, he says, “There is a hero in every story. It can be a man or a woman. But along with that, there are various roles in a show that are equally important to take the story ahead. So for me, doing a show where the story line is on a woman doesn’t matter. What matters is my character and the way it is developed.”
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
  A TV veteran, Shekhar Suman reminisces the good old days and says, “Gone are the days of ‘Buniyad’, ‘Tamas’ and ‘Udaan’. These shows were replaced with repulsive saas bahu serials. Mercifully, lately some of the series are indeed trying to break the mould and move away from that zone. I hope the trend grows.” He also shares that he would avoid the shows that are female-centric with a “ten feet bargepole.” “I would never take a female-centric show unless it is ‘Mother India’ or something like ‘Astitva’ (the film) where the male characters are very powerful.”
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
  A well-known face on TV, Karan Suchak is currently seen in ‘Meri Hanikarak Biwi’. The show is based on his character Akhilesh, a village simpleton whose world turns upside down when his doctor fiancée accidentally performs a vasectomy procedure on him before their wedding. He tells us, “Indian television is coming up with interesting concepts. Like my show, ‘Meri Hanikarak Biwi’, talks about the ‘taboo’ of vasectomy. If you go by the title, you will feel it’s a female-centric show. But it’s not. I think the winds of change have already started with the advent of good content. I don’t think any actor would want to be part of a project to just be an eye candy. I would prefer to be known as a good actor.”
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
  Karan Jotwani, who shot to fame in ‘Bade Achhe Lagte Hain’, is currently seen as Sahil in ‘Aap Ke Aa Jaane Se’. His character is 24-year-old who is head over heels in love with Vedika, a 42-year-old widow. Ask Karan about the changing dynamics of Indian television and he says, “Male actors or characters these days hold a very important and significant position in the storyline and shows are no longer focussed only on women. My character in ‘Aap Ke Aa Jaane Se’ is one such example. The idea is to engage the audience and keep them hooked onto the show, and for that, I feel, a good performance is the real deal, and not just being good looking.”
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
  Formerly the bad guy of ‘Tashan-e-Ishq’, Zain Imam plays male protagonist Neil Khanna, a strong-headed police officer in Mahesh Bhatt’s ‘Naamkarann’. The show recently took a 10 year leap where Avni (Aditi Rathore), his wife, staged her death to save him and he is trying to cope with it. Zain definitely gets more screen time compared to what the male actors are traditionally used to getting on TV soaps. Talking about the growing relevance of male characters on TV, he says, “The kind of roles that are sketched are a lot more defined these days and the male actors are now getting diverse opportunities to challenge themselves. There is always a hero and a heroine. That’s what makes a story. But definitely, the roles for male actors have become significant and stronger now, just like mine in ‘Naamkarann’.”
 
 – Unnati.Joshi@timesgroup.com
 
 
  
 
 
