JALANDHAR/PHAGWARA: Shiv Sena factions in Punjab consistently remain in the news for making inflammatory statements against Sikhs and Dalits on Facebook and occasionally clashing with other communities. This time, they clashed with Dalit activists on the eve of Ambedkar Jayanti at Phagwara, leaving two Dalits nursing bullet wounds.

 But for all their fire and fury, these multiple   of Punjab have nothing to do with Bal Thackeray. In fact, they have nothing to do with either Shivaji or Marathi Manoos. While   named his organization after Maratha warrior king Shivaji — melding a pro-Maratha identity with Hindu nationalism — those in Punjab believe that the name is derived from Lord Shiva. Top leaders of different factions admit that there is little awareness among Shiv Sainiks in Punjab about the original Shiv Sena and what it stands for.
 
 
 
 
 There are at least 16 organizations with the name ‘Shiv Sena’ in Punjab, but only a few are active or have some following. Several new groups have mushroomed in the last few years, but they don’t stand for any ideology,” says Sanjiv  , who heads Shiv Sena (Punjab).
 
 Ghanauli revealed that some Hindu activists in Punjab modelled their organizations on Bal Thackeray’s party and considered him their hero, but not being able to identify with Shivaji, they named the party after Lord Shiva. “We have also named our outfit after Lord Shiva and we invoke his name in our slogans,” he said.
 
 “They use the name of the organization and that of Bal Thackeray just to get some limelight and then ask for security from cops. All our leaders have their own businesses or are self-employed but it is difficult to tell how the new breed of leaders earns a living,” he added.
 
 “Though our founders were aware that Thackeray’s party represented regionalism, they followed him only on the idea of Hindu nationalism. Ludhiana-based leader,   had established an active link with Thackeray and even worked as the Punjab president of his party, but later the unit started fragmenting and had little contact with Thackeray,” said  , who once remained convener of seven-member presidium of Shiv Sena in the 1980s.
 
 “Our slogans are dedicated to Lord Shiva even as we consider Bal Thackeray a hero,” says Phagwara-based Vipin Sharma, state spokesperson of Shiv Sena (Punjab). Another Phagwara resident, the late Ramakant Jalota was among the founders of Shiv Sena in Punjab. He was killed by militants in the late 1980s.
 
 “Bal Thackeray formed the organization for all Hindus and it is named after Lord Shiva and we have never even thought that the origin of its name is from Maratha king Shivaji,” admits Narinder Thapar, Punjab chairman of Shiv Sena (Samajwadi).
 
