MUMBAI: The busiest international route in terms of flight volume currently is the one that connects Singapore to Kuala Lumpur, with over 30,500 one-hour-long flights operated to and fro last year. The three-hour trip linking Mumbai to Dubai may be the busiest route out of India, but is not among the Top 20 busiest in the world on flight volume. 

 
 However, Indian airports still play a supportive role in shaping the rankings—for transit passengers on the Singapore-Kuala Lumpur route, Delhi and Tiruchirappalli in Tamil Nadu rate as the fourth and fifth most popular destinations respectively. A total of four million passengers flew to and fro between Kuala Lumpur and Singapore in the 12 months from February 2017 to March 2018, according to statistics released on Friday by OAG Aviation Worldwide, an air travel intelligence firm based in the United Kingdom. 
 
 
  
 
 Of the 2 million who would have flown from Singapore to Kuala Lumpur, about 40,000 were booked to fly on the Singapore-Kuala Lumpur-Delhi route on Malindo Airways, while 34,000 were booked on a Singapore-Kuala Lumpur-Tiruchirappalli flight operated by Scoot. Similarly,   was ranked third busiest with 27,300 flights operated to and fro last year carrying 4.6 million passengers. 
 
 Of 2.3 million who flew from Jakarta to Singapore, about 27,300 had booked a Jakarta-Singapore-Mumbai flight on  . The other popular route for passengers from India is the Hong Kong-Shanghai Pudong route, which is the fourth most busiest in the world in terms of both quantum of flights (21,800) and passenger volumes (3.8 million). 
 
 On the Shanghai Pudong-Hong Kong flights, 34,400 passengers were booked on the Shanghai-Hong Kong-Mumbai Cathay Pacific flight last year. Among the other Top 20 busiest international routes fed by traffic from India was the Jakarta-Kuala Lumpur route (ranked fifth). About 1.3 million flew Jakarta-Kuala Lumpur last year, of which 22,000 passengers had onward connections to Delhi onboard   Airlines. 
 
 The Kuwait-Dubai route (ranked ninth on flight volume) was also a popular one for Mumbai-bound passengers residing in Kuwait. Among the 1.3 million passengers who had boarded the flight in 12 months, 37,000 were bound for Mumbai onboard Emirates. But on the Dubai-Kuwait route, of the total 1.3 million annual passengers, only 6,000 flyers had onward connections to Mumbai. 
 
 “Unsurprisingly, 14 of the Top 20 routes operate to, from or within Asia and are routes which connect Hong Kong, Singapore, Seoul and Osaka to other parts of Asia feature strongly. All of the Top 7 routes are routes within Asia, demonstrating the intensity of travel between key hub airports and cities,’’ said the OAG report.
 
  It added, “Outside Asia, there are five short haul routes with high density of scheduled air service. These are New York LaGuardia-Toronto, Dubai-Kuwait, Dublin– London-Heathrow, Amsterdam-London-Heathrow and Chicago-Toronto.”
 
