February, their numbers start coming down, and by March they vanish without a trace. No, we aren’t talking about a new species of vermin but the  ! With a new-found resolve to tick ‘focusing on health’ and ‘exercise’ off their new year check list, these ‘joggers’ would be a merry bunch full of energy, huffing and puffing to keep up with the regulars. But do the seasoned ones accept them into the fold? How can they transform themselves into year-rounders? We find out.

 Apparently, the regular joggers are not at all pleased with the January ones. “In the first place, there is a certain etiquette you have to follow when you jog or walk on a busy track. You have to keep to one side to let the faster people pass. But the newbies come in groups and obstruct the entire path by walking together as a gang. They are also talking and resting half the time, ruining the ambience for the rest of us,” says Maria Sebastian, a regular jogger and Kochiite. “Already their numbers have started dropping, so by the end of the month, we should be fine.”
 
 The same happens in gyms, concurs Sanoop Dev, a fitness enthusiast, although few gym owners admit the fact. “In fact, I think gyms run on profit only because of them. Gyms offer packages for three to six months. Suddenly this month, all 15 machines are in use when we regulars come for our work out,” he says.
 
 It’s a universal phenomenon, which happens every year, all over the world. “I take a long walk in Cubbon Park every day. All of a sudden, there has been a rise in the number of joggers here. I can recognise them from the way they seem to be straining themselves,” says Anasuya Menon, a Bengaluru-based Malayali.
 
 So what is it that makes them fall by the wayside? Being bogged down by the initial hiccups, according to experts. “Whatever the form of exercise, you are bound to get body aches the first few days. In a gym, for example, if you are lifting weights, you should maintain the exact balance or else you will get shoulder ache. 
 
 No amount of forcing or threats can make someone stick to their exercise routine, and they should experience the high by themselves, feels Maria. “You feel dead tired and lethargic the first few days and it requires dedication to keep on at it. After all, even marathon runners begin as January joggers!” she says.
 
 Anasuya’s piece of advice to them is to just take it easy. “Just relax. I often see the new people stressing themselves out and punishing themselves, while the regular exercisers seem to be doing it in an easier pace and unwinding.”
 
 Meanwhile, Merin Varghese, an ‘on and off’ gym visitor, says sheepishly that she will never re-join a gym on the first of January, come what may. “They will have this look on their faces which clearly says, ‘We know the likes of you; let’s see how long you last’. I’ll restart only in February, after the crowd comes down.” 
 
 
 
 
 
