There was a time when holidays would be elaborately planned by families, once schools and colleges shut down for summer vacations. It would involve going on trips, nationally or internationally, or visiting relatives. However, over time, the trips began to cease and in turn came up the trend of doing a month or two of internship to gain work experience. While most college students still opt for internships, there are many others who prefer to use their holidays to give back to society and in turn, develop life skills. BT looks at what some of Mumbai’s school and college students were upto, this summer. 

 
 
 
  
 Many youngsters decided to care for animals during their holidays. Manasi Singh, a second year student of arts at  , says, “I have always wanted a pet, but my parents never agreed. So, this summer, I turned dog walker for my neighbours. Not only did I take the dogs out for a walk every morning and evening, I also prepared a timetable to decide what games I could play with them to keep them fit.” 
 
 Manasi isn’t the only one who dedicated her time to taking care of pets. Yash Panchal, a third year BMS student from  , too, decided to spend his vacation in the company of furry friends. He says, “There are many NGOs catering to lost and abandoned animals. I decided to spend my vacation working for one such organisation, lending a hand in looking after them, playing games, feeding and bathing them.”
 
 Shahana Sheth, who lives in a locality full of cats, spent time sensitising people towards the animals. She says, “My love for cats prompted me to educate the people in my building on how they should treat animals, whether pets or strays. Soon, I saw a difference in their behaviour towards the cats. We have also made a small kennel for them, which we stock up with food and water.”
 
 
 
 Some collegians devoted their time to educating the underprivileged. “I wanted to spend my vacation teaching English to my domestic help’s son. While I bought some books suitable for his age, I got colouring books for her daughter, to keep her engaged. Every day after the class, the boy says ‘Thank you’ to me, and as gurudakshina, gets me a chocolate. I couldn’t have imagined a better way of spending my  ,” says Charmi Tailor, a first year student of arts. 
 Third year student of BCom, Rishith Rambhia went an extra mile (literally) to impart education. The 19-year-old spent his summer holidays in a small village near Kutch, teaching the children there. Rishith says, “On a recent trip to Kutch, my dad’s friend mentioned this village in the interiors, where children have to travel miles to attend school. As a result, most of them would opt out sooner or later. I told my parents that during my summer vacation, I would be going to this village and teaching them. I did not have anything planned out — accommodation, food, etc. But as soon as I reached there, and told the villagers about my plan, they opened up their homes for me. I spent my mornings teaching children in the age group of four to twelve and in the evenings, I played football and cricket with them.” 
 
 
 
 There are many young environmental warriors as well. Sneha Sinha, a management student from Vivekanand Education Society’s Institute of Technology, says, “I wanted to spread the message of living in a clean environment. So, I spent my summer vacation making school students and young couples in my building clean the society’s stairs and compound on weekends.” For Pia Naik Prasad, a marketing student from Prin. LN Welingkar Institute of Management Development & Research, feeding the homeless gave immense satisfaction. “On my way back from college every day, I would see homeless people begging on the road, asking for money to buy food. I never give them money, because I don’t know how they will spend it. So, during my holidays, I bought vada pav and misal pav every day, and fed the homeless,” she says. 
 
 
 
 There were some who pursued their passions as well. Ayushi Parekh, a student of ISDI, WPP, is a trained Bharatnatyam dancer. And this summer vacation, she put her talent to good use. “I love dancing and I am extremely fond of children as well. So, this vacation, I combined my love for both and started dance fitness sessions for kids. I used steps and moves that help in flexibility and development of muscles. The classes were held free of cost. The biggest reward is giving back to the society — no reward is better than a smile on these kids’ faces,” she says.
 
 
