MANGALURU: Taking a stroll near a private hospital at   on Sunday presented a delightful view. Two decade-old trees, one Peltaforum and another Deodar, were adorned with ribbons in three colours of the national flag – saffron, white and green. These are the two trees that the local corporator allegedly wanted to axe for “road widening and to build a storm water drain”.

 When most of the city residents were relaxing early on Sunday, a group of 50 people, young and old alike, arrived and tied these ribbons to celebrate  . This was the environmentalists’ way of protecting the trees that the people in power have been getting felled for various reasons.
 
 While D K  , corporator, Kari South ward, has maintained that it is important to fell the trees in order to construct storm water drains, the greens contend that the purpose could be achieved by diverting the path of the drain behind the trees. Interestingly, three poles have now been erected in the existing drain in order to raise a hoarding. The greens have learnt that the hoarding will carry a political advertisement in the run up to the election and that the two trees will affect visibility. ``This is why the corporator wants to axe them,’’ they allege.
 
 Interestingly, one can also find a photograph of B Ramanath Rai, Minister for forests, ecology and environment, on one of the two trees. This is the way the greens, led by   (NECF), have thanked the minister who has given a verbal them assurance over the phone that he would ensure that the trees remain intact.
 
 However, corporator Ashok Kumar countered the claim of the activists saying the felling of the trees is necessary as he first wants to widen the road and then create storm water drain. He said he had got four petty shops in the vicinity demolished and that the shopkeepers allegedly paid the environmentalists to raise their voice against him.
 
 “During the rainy season, waterlogging is a common scenario and when vehicles ply, they splash water on pedestrians. I become answerable to them, not the environmentalists. They are uneducated, they are paid by the owners of the petty shops which I demolished,” he told TOI.
 
 ‘No permission’
 
 Gayathri Nayak, deputy commissioner, Revenue, Mangaluru City Corporation said she had not given anyone permission to raise a hoarding. “I am not aware. I have not given any permission to raise advertisements board there. I will investigate and take action against the guilty,” she said. 
 
 Deforestation in the district has been taken place rampantly, said  , convener, NECF. He says as many as 13 lakh trees were felled for the Netravathi river diversion project, another 68,000 trees for the construction of Subrahmanya-Kerala road, several thousand trees are being felled for the for road connecting   and Byrapura and at least 600 for the construction of the district deputy commissioner’s office in Padil.
 
 The environmentalists, who have formed smaller branches to oppose the axing of trees in their locality, have now been fighting the felling of trees under a timber contract on the   road for future projects. The organisation has already got stay orders against further felling. 
 
 Meanwhile, the greens on Sunday also ran a signature campaign opposing the felling of the two trees. The petition comprising the signatures will be handed over to the assistant conservator of forest.
 
 
