CHANDIGARH: A school principal allegedly raped a 16-year-old student on the pretext of helping her clear her class X board exams. The principal, who is also the owner of the school on the outskirts of   town in  , made a dummy student write her physical education paper on Tuesday while he raped the girl in a nearby house. 

 Police officials booked the principal and two women under the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act on Tuesday night. The women were booked for criminal conspiracy as the rape took place in their house. All three are absconding since Tuesday night.
 
 A case has been registered on the complaint of the girl's father. The father was ready to pay Rs 10,000 to the principal as part of the deal to help his daughter clear the exams. 
 
  The survivor's father told the police, "On March 8, the principal called me and my daughter to a school on the outskirts of Gohana. The principal then asked me to leave my daughter at his relative's place. He said another girl would write my daughter's exam." 
 
 The man was instructed to pick up his daughter after the exam was over. When he returned to the house where he had left his daughter, she told him that the principal had raped her in connivance with the two women.
 
 The father said that while he was talking to his daughter, the accused and the two women managed to flee the house.
 
 "Soon after recording the statement of the survivor, we registered a case and a team of counsellors was asked to help the girl,"   said.
 
 This is the second such case in two months. Last month, a government school teacher in Ludhiana, along with a colleague, was arrested for allegedly raping a class XII student from the dalit community and conspiring with another male teacher to abort her foetus when she became pregnant.
 
 The police lodged an FIR following a complaint by the teacher of another government school, who was earlier posted in the same school. The complainant had also forwarded an audio clip of nearly four minutes in which the two accused teachers were allegedly heard discussing ways of getting the 18-year-old student's abortion done.
 
 
