Most music bands are formed with fame and fortune in mind. However, when 40-year-old   from Perinthalmanna decided to put together a band last November, his sole intention was to use their music to tackle social causes. And to realise the dream, it’s hardly surprising that the self-confessed   fan chose reggae as the prime genre of focus, and named the band Reggae Mars.

  On choosing reggae, Asok says, “The beats of reggae are simple and while singing, you are also conversing in a way. It’s a genre where you can repeat the words without disrupting the flow of music. Moreover, I believe it’s a style of music through which we can easily address social issues.”
 
 While many in their 40s would think twice before starting on a creative venture, Asok says he was driven by what could be accomplished by ‘’the power of music”. “The idea for such a band germinated in 2013 when we held  , an alternative music festival in Thiruvananthapuram,” says Asok, who served as the creative director of the fest.
 
 However, it took him four more years to actually form a band. Getting members together has been, and still is a challenge that he is tackling in his own unconventional way. “The band has a lead guitarist, a drummer, a percussionist and a bassist. However, they aren’t permanent members and what we are trying to do right now is to rope in talents from the place where we are performing. We never intended to perform live. We want to do recordings and want really good talents to be part of those. This way, we get to work with a lot of musicians. Eventually, we do want to lock down a few members with whom we share a similar ideology,” he says.
 
 Since its formation, Reggae Mars has released three singles – Restrictions, Why War and  . Asok has also envisioned a unique theme for the way the band functions every year. “As a band, we want to focus on social issues. This year, we are aiming to spread awareness on  , with song Hopes and Dreams. We want to highlight that autistic children should be included in society and their dreams and work encouraged. We also plan to come out with two or three songs with visuals highlighting the theme,” the singer says. “This year we have chosen autism, next year we have plans to focus on old age homes; and orphanages the year after.”
 
 To further the cause on autism awareness, Reggae Mars plans to hold shows in Kochi, Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode, along with other bands. “A few prominent artistes from the Malayalam film industry have expressed their interest to be part of the concert, so we are now waiting for it all to come together,” he says.
 
 Asok’s eventual plan though is to bring about a movement through music and his band, involving Kerala’s youth. “The youngsters in Kerala have immense energy and the right mindset to come out in support of such social causes. We want to organise a music festival of sorts through our concerts that bring people together while also encouraging discussions on the solutions for the cause,” he says.
 
