MUMBAI: Rising global oil and   pinched fuel consumers hard as motor fuel prices hit record levels in Mumbai and Delhi on Sunday. 

 In Mumbai,   increased to Rs 81.59 a litre on Sunday and is expected to rise to 81.69 Monday, while diesel touched an all-time high of Rs 68.35 a litre and will hit Rs 68.89 on Monday as benchmark   hovered at $70 per barrel on Friday, the last trading day of the week gone by. Delhi, meanwhile, saw petrol price hit a four-year high of Rs 73.73 a litre and diesel touch an all-time high of Rs 64.58.
 
 Federation of   (FAMPEDA) president Uday Lodh and Ravi Shinde of the   said the new revision on the first day of the new fiscal has taken petrol and diesel prices to an all-time high in Mumbai as well as the state.
  
 
 Simultaneously, Mahanagar Gas Ltd also increased the price of CNG to Rs 44.22/kg and of domestic piped natural gas (PNG) to Rs 26.87/SCM (standard cubic meter) in and around Mumbai. The basic price of CNG was increased by Rs1.23/kg and of domestic PNG by Rs 1.04/scm. 
 
 Consumers are likely to feel the pinch of every cent by which crude rises or falls due to the daily price revision mechanism introduced last June, unlike in the past when prices were revised every fortnight. 
 
 With the daily revision, the price of diesel has gone up by Rs 4.84 per litre over the last three months, while petrol has become costlier by Rs 5.34. 
 
 The hike may slowly lead to an increase in prices of vegetables, groceries and other essential items, traders fear, especially since diesel is the fuel used by the transport industry. “Our transporters who are an integral part of our supply chain will increase the rates and so delivery charges will go up. This will, at the end of the year or so, reflect in food pricing,” said a senior member of Ahar, an association of over 8,000 bars and restaurants. Similarly, a vegetable trader at the Mumbai APMC said the small rises are absorbed by the supply chain but eventually at the end of the year there might be some difference that can result in the overall rise in price of vegetables and groceries.
 
 For instance, Sumit Bari, who owns Pooja Logistics in Goregaon, has increased freight rates by 10% beginning April. “We transport plastic bottles and various types of powder. Diesel prices are a growing burden which we are forced to pass to our clients. If we demand 10% they will give us 7-8%. Of course they will in turn relay the increase to consumers.”
 
 Over the last nine months, diesel price has gone up by Rs 7.53 per litre and petrol by Rs 8.79 per litre. Consumers now describe daily revision as slow poisoning. “Earlier, at least we could make out the rise but in this any major change becomes invisible,” said a consumer who was refilling his SUV fuel tank at a petrol pump in south Mumbai.
 
 Kedar Chandak, a prominent petrol dealer, said that on average, the per barrel rate of crude had fallen to USD 65-70 now from USD 110 in 2014 but Indian consumers are still being charged the same rates or more than what they were charged then. “This clearly means governments were not passing on the benefits to consumers and instead strengthening the government coffers," he said demanding introduction of GST for petrol to avoid tax on tax calculations.
 
 The government may find it hard to deny this without inviting public ire ahead of crucial Karnataka polls as it looks to seek another mandate from the people early next year. On Sunday, West Bengal CM and Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee lashed out at the Centre for high fuel prices. But reducing tax could upset the government’s maths when it has just announced a massive stimulus package to revive the economy.
 
