JAIPUR: Former chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday condemned the continuous hike in petrol and diesel prices. 

 
 Gehlot said, Modi-government will be remembered for increased petrol and diesel prices. Gehlot said that when   government was at the helm, he tirelessly accused the government for petrol and diesel prices when the crude oil prices were touching new highs. But, now when the crude oil prices are comparatively lessor in the international market, the petrol and diesel prices in the coutry are setting new records.
 
 He said that the   government has already decided not to reduce excise duty on petrol and diesel. Also, the government in BJP-ruled state, Rajasthan has not taken any step to provide relief to people from price rise.
 
  party’s Jaipur district president Pratap Singh Khachariyawas on Monday said that continuous rise in prices of petrol and diesel has given a push to inflation. The government at the Centre is the first such anti-people government which has continuously increased the prices of petrol and diesel despite fall in crude oil prices in the international market. He was addressing a gathering of Congress workers protesting against the rise in petrol and diesel prices at Collectorate Circle.
 
 During the protest, Congress workers demanded roll back of prices, which have increased. They also demanded from the government to bring down the prices of commodities and also reduce inflation. They raised slogans against the BJP government.
 
 Khachariyawas said that due to rise in petrol and diesel prices, the cost of transportation has increased which has directly pushed up the prices of commodities. He said that it is sad that in neighbouring countries such as Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka, the prices of petrol and diesel is quite low in comparison to the prices in India, despite the fact that India supplies petrol and diesel in some of the countries.
 
 He threatened that in the coming days, Congress will intensify its protest in the state. If situation turns ugly then state government will be responsible for it, he added.
 
 
