TITWALA:  , who is   after accusing them of pushing his son to commit suicide, is in hospital after an attack on him on Wednesday night. "They left me in an isolated place unconscious, believing I was dead," said Rajesh, who is still drowsy. 

 He and his wife Pushpa, who have been facing threats, accused the policemen against whom they are fighting of orchestrating the attack. 
 
 Their son Mitesh, an automobile engineering student, was found hanging in his house here in August 2017. The family alleges that Mitesh had been beaten up by the police, who had summoned him the previous day in a fake bike theft case. A criminal offence was filed against two policemen and the case was handed over to the crime branch for probe after the family moved the Bombay high court.
 
 On Wednesday evening, Rajesh was visiting his house in Titwala - the family has moved to Dombivli in fear of the cops - when an unknown person stopped him and began commiserating about his misfortune. He gave him some juice, after which Rajesh began feeling drowsy. He took him to an isolated place and attacked him with a bottle. When Rajesh fell unconscious, the man left, believing he was dead. But before he completely lost consciousness, Rajesh said he heard the man calling someone over phone and saying " Saheb kaam jhala. Ata yala Kalu nadi madhe taku ki jhada varti tangu (Sir, work done. Now should I throw him in Kalu river or hang him from a tree?)." 
 
 When he came to him senses, he contacted his family, who found him along with the police and took him to the Titwala primary health centre. Later, he was shifted to Central hospital in Ulhasnagar.
 
 The family is scared and believes the accused cops are behind the attack because they had got threat letters. "The way the recent letter threatened us of dire consequences before May 3 and the attack on my husband on May 2 shows that the cops behind my   are now terrorising us to withdraw case," said Rajesh's wife Pushpa.
 
 The family said after their complaint about the attack on Rajesh, the Titwala police only slapped assault charges on unknown people. They demanded that the accused and the two cops in the Mitesh case be booked for murder attempt.
 
 "Since the victim did not suffer many injuries, they have booked accused under section 326 and other IPC sections," said Yogesh Gurav, assistant police inspector at Titwala police station. Vishal Thakur, DSP, Shahpur region, who is handling the case, refused to speak.
 
 "It looks like the cops do not want to help us get justice. Despite the Kalyan session court rejecting the bail of the accused cops, the police are yet to arrest them though hearing on their application for relief the HC is yet to begin," said Mitesh's uncle.
 
 
