GREATER NOIDA: The   (YEIDA) board has decided to approach the   to study ways to connect   with the proposed   in  . 

 “A direct link is needed between the two airports and we had taken up this matter with the board. The YEIDA board has given a go-ahead for appointing the NCRTC or any other consultant to conduct a study and see what this link should be — whether a rapid rail, underground  , highway, mass transport system or something else. As of now, it takes around two hours to drive between IGI airport and Jewar,” said Prabhat Kumar, YEIDA chairman. “Once we have the study in place, we will move forward on this,” he added.
 
 The board has also decided to get a fresh feasibility report prepared by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) for a proposed Metro link between Greater Noida and the airport project in Jewar. “We have decided to urge the DMRC to prepare a fresh techno-economical feasibility report (TEFR) and a detailed project report for the proposed corridor. The proposal is to link Sector 20 in YEIDA area to Jewar,” Kumar said.
 
 According to the YEIDA chairman, the proposed 39-km Metro track will be aligned with the Yamuna Expressway and will link Zero Point in Greater Noida to the airport. 
 
 The track will also be linked to the 29.7km Aqua Metro corridor that will soon be commissioned and connect Noida and Greater Noida.
 
 “The proposed line is expected to not only provide a fast link between the two townships of Greater Noida and the YEIDA area but also bring these places closer to the national capital by boosting connectivity,” he said. “The final alignment will, however, depend on the feasibility and the TEFR.”
 
 The corridor had been first proposed in February 2014 and again in June 2015 by the YEIDA board. In June 2016, DMRC had told YEIDA that it was too early to prepare a TEFR for the proposed corridor and suggested it be done after five years.
 
 “However, in order to provide connectivity to the urbanising YEIDA area and the sanctioned airport, we have once again decided to revive the project,” Kumar said.
 
 
