VIJAYAWADA: In keeping with the successful green initiatives implemented in Vijayawada, Krishna district administration has taken up ‘Green Krishna’ project to improve air quality across the district in the next 10 months. Massive   has already started in protected areas under this project, which will be extended to unprotected areas from June. 

 The   (VMC) has introduced road sweeping machines, compactors in addition to the plantation drive in the city. 
 
 The move helped improve the air quality, especially when it comes to bringing down the particulate matter below normal levels. The PM10 levels are used to be 102 µg/m3 before the green initiatives and they have come down to 83 µg/m3 that is well below the normal level 100 µg/m3.
 
 Another aspect that contributed to the reduction of particulate matter in the air is the introduction of sprinklers while sweeping the roads and making a tarpaulin cover mandatory for the heavy vehicles that are used in construction sites to carry sand, soil or debris.
 
 The Krishna district administration is now extending all of the initiatives across the district. The district collector B   made some value additions by including all commercial and government establishments to take up the plantation drive. Plants are being supplied to all government offices, fuel stations, hotels, gas agencies, fair price shops, banks, wine shops, educational institutions and all other private business places to encourage them to grow trees.
 
 The district administration is involving all the departments in the green drive and distribution of trees. 
 
 Though it is not a punitive measure, officials are making efforts to ensure that everyone falls in line to take up plantation. The commercial tax department alone was given 40,000 plants that will be supplied to commercial establishments.
 
  Lakshmikantam said that they are taking special measures in mining areas like Nandigama, Kanchikacherla and Jaggaiahpet where pollution from mines and quarries is rampant. 
 
 They have made it compulsory to use tarpaulin covers for the trucks, which are releasing pollutants into air. Punitive action is also being taken against the lorries that are violating the norms. 
 
 Lakshmikantam added that they are confident to achieve the target of   within next 10 months with people’s participation. 
 
 “We have taken up the project not limiting to just plantation but following it up on regular basis. We have set out a target of planting 10 lakh plants across the district by the end of next monsoon,” he said. 
 
 
