LUDHIANA: Angry over his ex-girlfriend’s family not letting him marry her, a youth allegedly made fake Facebook profiles of his love interest and her mother, and then upoaded explicit photographs and posted lewd comments on the two profiles, to defame them.

 Guru   resident   was booked on Thursday, two and half months after the family of his ex-girlfriend had lodged a complaint against him.   has been charged with sections 500 (defamation), 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory), and 354-D (stalking) of the Indian Penal Code, and relevant sections of Information Technology Act. The accused made six fake facebook profiles of the girl during last six months. 
 
 However, he is yet to be arrested.
 
 In his complaint to the police, the father of girl alleged that his daughter had known the accused for about six months. He alleged that when they refused the idea of the two getting married, the youth started nursing a grudge against the family and the girl. “The father alleged that the youth then decided to make fake Facebook profiles of members of the family to pressure them to accept his offer of marriage,” said investigating officer in the case, inspector Sukhdev Singh.
 
 The father alleged in his complaint that the accused used to regularly post obscene photos and comments on the two fake profiles. 
 
 The police official said the accused had used a website for hiding his IP address while creating the profiles of the two women. “The IP address got automatically deleted after some time,” the inspector added. “During investigating, we checked the mobile phone of the accused. It was then that we found proof against the accused, and also found out the technique used by him for creating fake profiles,” said the cop.
 
 Police said the accused had also been using a smarphone app in which multiple fake Facebook profiles could be created and then deleted. The accused had made multiple fake profiles of the woman and her mother over the past six months, and not just one, it has been alleged. 
 
 While police had already called him for questioning, they were tight-lipped about when they were going to arrest him.
 
 
