GURUGRAM: Around 300 residents of   protested on the streets on Sunday morning MCG’s recurrent delay in the takeover of the privately-developed colony, as well as alleged sale of community and green spaces in the residential area of the colony by the developer. They started from Vyapar Kendra inside the colony and marched to  , even blocking traffic for a while, in which cops had to intervene to ensure the   didn’t cause a prolonged traffic jam.

 The protests went on for around two hours, with residents promising more such protests if department of town and country planning (DTCP) and MCG did not expedite the area’s takeover. “We protested against the misdeeds of the developer, Ansal API, in connivance with the administration. Our parks are now being sold for commercial activity, while MCG delays taking over. The very idea of a purely residential colony, for which we paid, is being robbed by Ansals,” said Narinder Bhuie, a resident who participated in the protest.
 
 He added residents want a space allocation audit done by an independent agency for a clear picture, revealing how much additional space Ansals have sold off beyond prescribed norms. They have also demanded that the government must issue a stand still order to the developer to not change land use of the remaining open areas till after the takeover happens. “Government must ensure the 45% of total area of the colony that is mandated as open area is not cannibalised by Ansals,” said Shashi Sharma, another resident.
 
 Residents said as per their estimates, less than the mandated 45% open area remains, with Ansals continuing to sell community and green spaces. They pleaded the government to ensure public interest gets priority over commercial profits — a principle laid down by the Supreme Court. 
 
 “As per licence conditions, 55% area inside a colony is to be considered saleable, while the balance 45% is to remain open. Government should get the colony measured and audited to find whether any open area has really been sold. We’re sure it’ll reveal several acres, worth crores, have already been sold,” said resident B N Gupta, a senior citizen.
 
 TOI had earlier reported that agitated over recurring delays in takeover of their colony by MCG, Sushant Lok 1 residents had decided to hit the streets from March 4, alleging the handover process has been held up by differences between MCG, DTCP and developer Ansal. Earlier, a spokesperson of Ansal API had denied the allegations, saying, “Ansal API is not selling any community centre. All parks are under RWA control for the last five years.”
 
 A senior MCG official said, “We’ve already initiated the takeover process. A meeting between government departments and the developer was recently held in Chandigarh. Another meeting is scheduled for March 15. The process will take its due course as there are procedures to be followed.” 
 
 
