Six persons were killed in a blast at an election meeting organized by former Congress   Harminder Singh Jassi on January 31, 2017, rocking the state just before the state assembly polls. 

 Three-time MLA Jassi, whose daughter is married to rape convict   head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh’s son, was apparently the main target and had a miraculous escape that night in   town of Bathinda district. He lost the election held four days later. 
 
 Almost a year after the blast, culprits roam free. However, even with his party in power in the state, Jassi faces ire of the victims’ kin over demands of justice and compensation as they say he has not done enough to push their case. 
 
 He also skirted questions like if he was targeted and whether the tragic incident played a part in his electoral loss. 
 
 Do you think   blast was a terrorist attack or the one specifically targeted at you?
 
 It is tough for me to predict an answer to that. It is the job of the police and various investigative agencies already involved in the case. Police are thoroughly investigating and only they can tell clearly about the motive of those who were behind the blast.
 
 So you don’t believe the attack was targeted at you?
 
 It is presumed that it was targeted at me. However, I will again say that it is a matter of thorough investigations and police are probing the matter. We must not jump to the conclusions. It’s better to wait for the outcome of the investigations.
 
 It is said that you were targeted due to your close relation with Dera Sacha Sauda head?
 
 No. It is not like that. The motive behind attack would be known only after the police solve the case and reach the bottom of the conspiracy.
 
 Do you ever think that the six persons who died would have been alive today had they not come to your political rally?
 
 Everybody has their own interpretation of happenings, but I don’t think like that. I too had a miraculous escape. It is a point of investigation as to what was the motive behind the blast. I have met   DGP demanding that the probe be speeded up. I hope police are able to solve the case soon.
 
 Some of the relatives of those who were killed are saying that they have not got government as promised as you did not plead their case forcefully.
 
 I am trying my best that the victim families get the promised jobs. I have twice met chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on the issue. I will again take up the matter with the CM, demanding that jobs be provided as already a year has passed. I have also raised the issue of reimbursement of the money spent by families on the treatment of the injured. I demanded from the government to provide jobs at the earliest to the victims to revive their faith in the state.
 
 Some of these families are angry with you?
 
 I do not think so. I keep on meeting the victim families to share their grief. I am raising voice for them.
 
 Do you feel blast impacted the election result for you?
 
 It is not like that.
 
 
