JAIPUR: Five persons were arrested by   police for getting jobs at   in   based on forged   of Uttar Pradesh board.

 An official informed TOI that the matter pertains to an FIR that was filed at city’s Jawahar police station in August 2016 by the then senior officials of the postal department about the suspected anomalies found during the verification of multiple marksheets.
 
 
 According to   SHO Prashant Koushik, all the accused had forged scanned copies of UP board and got marksheets in which they showed score ranging from 90-91%.
 
 “On March 2, 2016, the postal department has issued notification for the recruitment to the posts of distributors. The applications for these posts were invited and selection was to be determined on the basis of candidate’s score in secondary examinations,” Koushik said, adding that the candidates came in contact with a tout who promised them marksheets.
 
 Fifty four candidates were selected through merit list. Most of the candidates in the final selection list hailed from Srigaganagar, Jhunjhunu, Churu and Hanumangarh.
 
 ‘Some candidates smell a rat and shot a letter of complaint to the department. An inter-departmental enquiry was set up which examined the selected candidates and found all of them had marksheets from Allahabad. While these candidates were selected, they were not given appointment letters,” an official told TOI.
 
 Out of 54 selected candidates, as many as 47 candidates claimed that they completed their secondary education from Allahabad in Uttar Pradesh. The department informed the local police about the suspected racket and the city police filed an FIR against 41 candidates for forgery, cheating etc.
 
 The police have arrested Surendra Kumar, Jaipal, Suresh, Sunil, and Jagdish. All of five of them were produced before a local court and sent to police remand of five days.
 
 “We are investigating the case, as more names comes to the fore, they will be quizzed and if there involvement is confirmed then they too will be nabbed,” Koushik said,
 
