Gurgaon: When   Sehrawat was four years old, her father Sandeep would often take her to the   course. It didn’t take long for this girl to fall in love with the game. Now, she is the only golfer from the city selected to represent the   at the US Kids European Championship, to be held in Scotland from May 29 to 31. 

 Palakshi will compete in the under-12 category, the only Indian to be entered in this age group. “Palakshi won her age group in the Paris Junior Cup, that’s why she is participating in this tournament,” said Drew Felton, a US Kids Golf Foundation official.
 
 Golf, confesses Palakshi, is her passion. “I left no stone unturned and thoroughly prepared for the tournament. I was confident of achieving success this time, (and) this victory has further boosted my confidence,” said this class-VI student of Suncity School, adding, “I am thankful to my parents and school for their wonderful support.” 
 
 Palakshi recently bagged a gold medal at the 52nd Lufthansa Junior Golf Tour event, played at the city’s DLF Golf and Country Club (another Gurgaon girl, Prarthana Khanna, finished runner up). The tournament saw around 70 players from across the country take part.
 
 Rupa Chakravarty, principal at Suncity School, spoke proudly of Palakshi’s “wonderful” ability to balance academics with her passion. Indeed, Palakshi doesn’t find it at all difficult to juggle education and golf. She follows a strict fitness regime and takes care of her diet. For four days every week, at Delhi’s Qutab Golf Course, the youngster trains dedicatedly and rigorously. 
 
 “Palakshi has made not only me but the entire country proud. She is very hard-working and adheres to her basics. However, there is still a lot of scope for improvement and we are working on her weaknesses together,” said Harish Singh, Palakshi’s coach.
 
 Just 10 years old, Palakshi already has several accolades to her credit, having earlier won the 51st Lufthansa Junior Golf Tour event, the Salwan Cup School Golf Championship, and Ace Junior Golf tournament.
 
 
