AHMEDABAD: A truck carrying a consignment of liquor, worth about Rs 34 lakh, was seized at Gulabnagar in Amraiwadi on Monday. 

 The squad of DCP Zone arrested the driver, Kapilakhan Pathan, a native of Mewat on the Haryana-Rajasthan border and a resident of Alwar. The other person in the truck, Nasir Mantri, also from Mewat, escaped.
 
 Senior police sources said Amraiwadi police seized a liquor consignment worth about Rs 3.5 lakh from listed bootleggers   and Madan Rajput a few days ago. “They are the same bootleggers for whom this consignment of 7,092 bottles worth Rs 34.56 lakh was dispatched from Alwar,” said Himkar Singh, DCP Zone 5.
 
 Singh said as the consignment is worth more than Rs 20 lakh, they are inquiring whether the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) can be invoked against the accused.
 
 “We asked the enforcement directorate (ED) to explore if PMLA can be invoked. We have also lodged another FIR, for forgery, as the consignment was hidden under sacks of wheat. The transportation billing was forged to make it look like they were transporting wheat,” added Singh.
 
 Gujarat DGP, Shivanand Jha, had recently directed that for liquor consignments worth more than Rs 20 lakh, the possibility of invoking PMLA must be explored. He directed joint commissioner rank officers in city limits and range DIGs/ IGs in rural areas to supervise such cases.
 
 Singh said this particular consignment was manufactured at a distillery in   (HP) and was meant for sale in HP. “We are probing who the distillery sold the liquor to and it got to  , where it was loaded on this truck, which bears a Rajasthan number plate,” said DCP Singh.
 
 Singh added that the bootleggers Dilip Maya, Harishankar Shukla, Aakash and Sohanlal were involved along with Amit Dubey and Madan Rajput in smuggling this consignment into Gujarat.
 
 “We are probing if the bootleggers have bought property from the proceeds of their liquor business in Gujarat. We will send the DGP’s office a detailed report soon,” said Singh.
 
 
