CHANDIGARH: Three PGIMER neurosurgeons studying the biomechanics of the spine have unravelled the mystery behind a dance move by  , the King of Pop, which defied gravity: incredible core strength and great tendons.

 
 Jackson, or  , debuted his gravity-defying tilt in his famous 1987 music video “Smooth Criminal” — it showed him leaning 45 degrees forward from the feet upwards while keeping his spine straight.
 
 The PGI doctors found that not only was his dance move not a trick but also beyond the power of human tendons.
 
 The idea of decoding the dance move came when, during a routine OPD examination, one of the doctors wondered how the pop star accomplished mind-boggling feats while dancing. “We come across many injuries when people topple or bend forward beyond 25 degrees. We began exploring the biomechanics behind his move,” said Dr  , neurosurgeon and co-author of the study along with colleagues Dr Manjul   and Dr Nishant Yaagnick.
 
 
  
 
 So what puzzled these scientists about MJ’s dance moves? “It is known that MJ used to wear patented shoes that had a slot in the heel. The triangular slot could engage a hitch member (a metallic peg which emerged from the stage floor at just the right time), allowing the dancer to obtain the right amount of extra support to be able to lean forward beyond physiological limits,” the PGI doctors said.
 
 However, even with specially-designed footwear, the move is incredibly hard to pull off. “This requires athletic core strength from strengthened spinal muscles and lower-limb anti-gravity muscles.”
 
 Their research, titled “How did Michael Jackson Challenge Our Understanding of Spine Biomechanics?”, has been accepted for publication by the acclaimed Journal of Neurosurgery.
 
 When a person bends forward with a straight torso, the erector spinae muscles that help to straighten our back act like cables to support the suspended spinal column during the forward shift of the centre of gravity, preventing the person from falling forward.
 
 “However, when the fulcrum for forward bending is shifted to the ankle joints, the erector spinae lose their ability to maintain the centre of gravity and strain is shifted to the Achilles tendon. This allows for a very limited degree of forward bending from the ankle joints while keeping a stiff straight posture —unless you are Michael  ,” explained Dr Mohindra.
 
 “Most trained dancers with strong core strength will reach a maximum of 25° to 30° of forward bending while performing this action. MJ pulled off a gravity-defying 45° move that seems unearthly to any witness. He had developed his tendons very strongly. He was lightweight too.”
 
 The doctors warned that as dancers attempt to follow Jackson’s example and try “to jump higher, stretch further, and turn faster than ever before”, new forms of spinal injuries can be seen in clinics now. “The seemingly impossible dance movements of Michael Jackson have actually inspired the next generation of dancers to practice more difficult movements which are putting lots of physical strain and stress on the musculoligamentous structure of the body,” Tripathi said.
 
 “I have seen dancers with various spine injuries ranging from tears in the tendon, muscle rupture and prolapsed intervertebral discs to fractures of the cervical vertebra. Some of these patients need just physiotherapy and rest, but the more serious ones need surgical intervention involving removal of the disc and fixation of the bony architecture with artificial implants,” he added.
 
 So, what next for these neuroscientists? “We will now study the dance moves of  , who was one of the first Indian movie dancers to imitate MJ.”
 
 
 
 
