MUMBAI: Results of less than 2% of the 3.76 lakh   who took exams in November and December last year have been announced so far, even as 75% of the papers have been assessed. Some of the results are likely to be announced after the stipulated 45-day deadline, for the second consecutive exam, due to the implementation of  .

 The university will start announcing the results of some of the major exams of regular students, including TYBA and TYBSc, by the coming weekend, said examinations and evaluation in-charge Arjun Ghatule in a media interaction on Friday. He added that MU will be announcing 100% results in each of the programme, unlike part results that were announced in the last exam. “Our focus will be to announce all the results at a time. The technical problems that we faced in the last exam were almost sorted. Whatever little issues we were facing now, was due to the non-availability of teachers. The teachers were busy with internal exams which were conducted simultaneously with the university exams,” he said. Ghatule claimed that there has been no “actual delay” so far. “One has to count the 45 days from the date of the last exam.” 
 
 Even as MU is struggling to announce the results of the mid-term exam, over 4,500 applications for re-valuation are still pending from last year’s March-April exam. The MU is starting a special drive to clear these pending results by next weekend, said Ghatule. “A dedicated team of professors will focus on re-valuation only for the next few days.” A majority of the 4,529 pending revaluation applications are from science (1,411) and arts (1,007) faculties, showed data from the university.
 
 Though the university has already released 129 results of the total 402 exams, none of the major ones have been announced so far. In fact, only 6,167 of the total 3.76 lakh students have managed to get their results; the remaining 3.7 lakh are still awaiting their results. A majority of students, whose results are awaited, are from the commerce and management faculty—1.69 lakh—followed by science and technology with 1.33 lakh students. On the assessment front, a majority of papers pending for assessment—2.16 lakh—are in the commerce faculty. However, 75% of the 14.07 lakh papers have already been assessed. The 14.07 lakh figure also includes papers from postgraduate exams, which are yet to be conducted.
 
 Vice-chancellor   is meeting principals from different zones to understand the problems faced by teachers in the assessment process. “The conduct of first and second year exams, along with the university’s final year exams, was a major problem in the November exam. Hopefully, this will be resolved as the process is streamlined from the next academic year,” said Shinde. A principal said since the MU is focusing on announcing 100% results, they will have to wait for the assessment of all papers. “In some courses, there could be balance papers, which they intend to complete causing minor delays. Hopefully, these results, will not impact the last semester exams in March-April,” said the principal.
 
 
