FAIZABAD:In yet another shocking case of medical negligence similar to the recent episode at a   hospital, the severed leg of a youth was left lying with him on a stretcher for two hours at   district hospital on Wednesday.

 Later, doctors said reattaching the leg was not possible because of its prolonged exposure and delay in starting treatment. The youth’s leg was severed in a train accident. While a probe was ordered by the   after the incident went viral on social media, the patient was referred to  .
 
 Talking to TOI,   divisional commissioner Manoj Mishra said, “I know of the incident and have sought a report from Sultanpur district magistrate and additional director, health. Action would be taken if it is a case of negligence by the doctors and staff of the hospital”.
 
 Police said, “The left leg of the youth was severed after he fell under a train at Karaundiya railway crossing in Kotwali city police station area. Locals brought him to Sultanpur district hospital.”
 
 The youth, identified as Atul Kumar Pandey, is a resident of Ravnia Pidhi village, under Jaisinghpur police station area of Sultanpur.
 
 Sultanpur chief medical officer (CMO) CBN Tripathi said, “The patient has been referred to Lucknow Trauma Centre after being given first aid. The patient’s family members took the severed leg with them wrapped in polythene.”
 
 When asked why the patient was left unattended, Tripathi expressed helplessness, saying, “The district hospital lacks facilities for such a surgery. We don’t even have an ice box in which we could preserve the severed leg.”
 
 The CMO also admitted that the condition of the leg had worsened and that “there is no chance that the leg could be joined now”.
 
 A similar incident had caused much furore earlier this month when the severed leg of a patient was used as a pillow at Maharani Laxmi Bai Hospital at Jhansi. After the uproar over the incident, two doctors and two nurses were placed under suspension while departmental action was ordered against another doctor.
 
 
