KOLKATA: A student on his way to a PhD entrance examination was killed, and three of his friends were injured, early on Sunday when the app cab they were travelling in dashed into a median divider near the Metropolitan crossing on the EM Bypass after the driver dozed off at the wheels. The   has brought into sharp focus the punishing schedule that most app-cab drivers subject themselves to, in order to make the profession financially rewarding.

 Sayantan Biswas, 22, a first-year MSc student of applied physics at IIEST Shibpur, was sitting behind driver  , 21. Like most people sitting in the back seat, he didn’t have a seatbelt on, and his head dashed against the back of the driver’s seat, causing grievous injuries. He was apparently alive when he was rushed to a government hospital. He was taken to a private hospital at his friends’ insistence, but he had died by then. 
 
  
  
 One of the students said the car, while descending the Maa flyover at 60kmph-plus speed at 6.50am, suddenly veered right and hit the concrete median railings of a small culvert before the Metropolitan crossing. The driver, who was wearing a seatbelt, suffered minor injuries, as the airbag was deployed. Biswas’s body was flung like a rag doll’s — his head banged against the back of the driver’s seat before hitting the glass window to his right and then the rear windshield.
 
 Sudam Panda, 22, the student sitting beside the driver, fractured his pelvis.
 
 The two other students sitting in the backseat — Subhadeep Pradhan and Md Parvez Musharraf — escaped with non-life threatening head injuries. They have all been admitted to Medica Superspecialty Hospital on the Bypass.
 
 “It seemed to me that the driver was snoozing on and off since we had boarded the Ola cab from our hostel in Shibpur. We had even asked him to drive properly and sprinkle some water on his face, but he said he was fine,” said Subhadeep. The driver himself agreed to have dozed off when TOI met him at Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital. He conceded that he had fallen aslpeed, and that he had no time to avoid the collision when his eyes opened.
 
 As the students lay bleeding in the car, passersby alerted policemen at the   crossing. They rushed to the spot, brought the students out and sent them to Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital in a police ambulance. The cops said Sayantan was still breathing and was suffering from convulsions. However, on reaching the hospital, the students insisted that he should be taken to a private hospital and got him and Panda released, signing risk bonds. When doctors at Medica Superspecialty Hospital received Sayantan at 10am, more than three hours since the accident, he was dead. “When we received the patients, one of them was already dead. We admitted the other three,” said Aviral Roy, consultant, critical care and internal medicine, at Medica.
 
 Officials at CNMC said the friends had taken him out against doctors’ opinion. “When Sayantan was brought in, he was bleeding severely from the mouth, ear and nose. Our emergency doctors immediately admitted him and doctors, including a neurosurgeon, started treating him when the patient party said they wanted to take him away, against doctors’ advice,” said Dr Pit Baran Chakraborty, medical superintendent and vice-principal, CNMC.
 
 Cops said they have started a case of rash driving against Sujay, and will arrest him once he is released from hospital. “The driver complains of dizziness and pain in the head. We will speak to him and initiate action against him once the doctors give us the go-ahead,” said a senior   officer.
 
 Sayantan’s parents, who reached Medica later in the afternoon, said he was a brilliant student who had scored above 86% in HS and had graduated with 75% in physics honours. “He was extremely upbeat about the entrance examination and had prepared hard for the day. Who would have known the journey to the exam centre would be his last ride,” said father Sujit Biswas, a retired doctor at Krishnanagar Sadar Hospital. Biswas’ teachers, too, remembered him as a very bright student and an excellent cricketer. “He was the organizer of the recently organised cricket tournament and was excellent in studies too,” said Ajay Kr Roy, the director IIEST Shibpur.
 
 
