NEW DELHI: South and central Delhi braved huge   jams on Wednesday morning on Sardar Patel Marg, India Gate and Dhaula Kuan owing to the security arrangements put up for   and  . However, police said the situation was manageable and traffic did not come to a complete standstill.

 By evening, snarls were seen at C-Hexagon of India Gate, Mathura Road, Ring Road and Outer Ring Road in south Delhi as dignitaries travelled to the CGO Complex and Rashtrapati Bhavan. Police said the   was cleared by 8pm after the VVIP movements got over. Senior officers said that the roads were closed five minutes prior to the movement of VVIPs and opened immediately after that. However, the heavy volume of vehicles took some time to clear out.
 
 People heading towards the airport during the peak hours vented their displeasure on social media. “I was stuck on the flyover near the airport for nearly 50 minutes. I kept praying that I don’t miss the flight,” said Ashish Kumar Joshi, who was travelling from east Delhi.
 
 Traffic cops said they had issued an advisory for commuters to leave home at least an hour earlier than usual to avoid the snarls. “I was stuck for almost an hour on Ring Road near Dhaula Kuan while coming from Delhi Cantonment. There were no alternative routes for me to take since they were also choked due to the barricading by police,” said a commuter.
 
 The situation is expected to remain the same on Thursday when Asean leaders travel from the airport to their hotels in Lutyens’ Delhi. The most severely-affected stretches will include Dhaula Kuan, Sardar Patel Marg, Man Singh Road, Nyaya Marg, Shanti Path and Subramaniam Bharti Marg.
 
 Meanwhile, Gurgaon faced a gridlock late on Wednesday as the Delhi borders were closed for heavy vehicles around 8pm. ACP Hira Singh (highways) said that traffic problems were seen mostly at the Sirhaul and Aya Nagar borders as heavy vehicles trying to enter Delhi were forced to take U-turns from there. Vehicles moved at a snail’s pace on the Mehrauli-Gurgaon road and by 9.30pm the snarls extended till Sikanderpur.
 
 The busy intersection at Shankar Chowk was also jam-packed resulting in problems for commuters, especially those headed towards the airport. Police said that heavy vehicles will not be allowed inside city limits till January 26 and measures are being taken to avoid traffic snarls.
 
 
