AHMEDABAD: The   on Tuesday sought details from the   (AMC) and the state government on   constructed on the   and what rules were followed.

 A bench of Justice M R Shah and Justice A Y Kogje asked for details on speed-breakers during the hearing of a   complaining about damaged roads during the previous monsoon. This happened after the petitioner’s advocate, Amit Panchal, filed a new application and raised the issue of speed-breakers, which he said are built without following any norms, causing accidents. He demanded compensation for those getting injured in accidents due to such speed-breakers. The lawyer placed various documents showing guidelines in putting up speed-breakers, and submitted that bumps are made on city roads which leave roads completely “unmotorable”.
 
 It was submitted that speed-breakers in the city are are harmful even for patients in transit, senior citizens, and pregnant women and also damage the underbody of some cars and cause two-wheelers to skid and lead to fatal road accidents. After HC’s query, the AMC and the state government sought time to conduct a detailed survey and submit a report to the court with respect to number of speed-breakers in the city of Ahmedabad including their size, norms, if any, for the purpose of putting up speed-breakers and the procedure to be followed for granting permission to build speed-breakers.
 
 The HC has granted time till April 2 to submit the report. On this day, the AMC will also have to also explain the non-implementation of development projects and the alleged neglect in providing basic amenities in areas such as Juhapura and Sarkhej, which has become the biggest Muslim ghetto in the state.
 
 The AMC conceded to the court that the road repair works have been slow because no contractor has evinced interest and the civic body has not received any bid for the project. The AMC also told the HC that this could not be a ground for the delay, but since the road repairing works are under the HC scanner, the contractors may have refrained from bidding for the projects.
 
 
