LUDHIANA: In order to finalize plans for rejuvenation of  , officials have started their exercise around the drain after a special plan was announced by the state government. On 6 June, the chief executive officer of Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Corporation (PMIDC),  , is likely to visit the city for a review of the drain’s pollution problem.

 The government had recently received a project plan worth Rs995 crore from a private company for rehabilitation of the drain, and this visit is expected to verify facts whether the plan will help curb pollutants in Buddha Nullah. Sources revealed there were chances of some project announcement for the drain by the government in July. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu has confirmed the visit and said there was a plan to rehabilitate the drain, and very shortly, they would bring it in front of the public. He said PMIDC officers would come and check the drain’s problem points, and then give a nod to the prepared report. 
 
 Ajoy Sharma has refrained from commenting on the detailed plan, but said they would check all points of the drain within city limits. He said there were certain problems with the drain, which once sorted out, they would be able to put things in shape.
 
 Notably, recently a detailed project report worth Rs995 crore was submitted to the state government, and the   department was told to prepare a plan to solve the problem on the basis of that report. There is a plan to get Rs550 crore from the central government under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut), and the rest would be borne by the state government.
 
 In this report, the upgradation of sewage treatment plants, construction of effluent treatment plants for dairies, channelization of the drain, road widening, and landscaping has been proposed. A separate interceptor sewage has also been suggested. Now, officials will check all the pros and cons of these suggestions. 
 
  TEAM IN CITY ON JUNE 8
 
 After the matter of pollution in Buddha Nullah — along with other water bodies — was taken up with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) by leader of opposition and AAP MLA Sukhpal Khaira, the NGT had asked the   (CPCB) and the   (PPCB) to collect samples from the drain at different times. The MC has also appointed joint commissioner   for this task. On 8 June, CPCB officials are expected to reach the city. The teams will jointly fill samples at various locations of the drain for preparing the report. 
 
 
