NEW DELHI: A Delhi   has sentenced a man accused of   to 10 years’ jail, observing that the scars of a sexual assault do not heal in the mind of a child and corrodes any pleasant memory.

 The court also said that in this country, where idols are worshipped, rivers worshipped and fasts performed for long life of children, it is unfortunate that some of them are forced to live a life of frustration, depression and morbidity.
 
 While awarding the punishment to Manoj and slapping a fine of Rs 30,000 on him, additional sessions judge Seema Maini said sexual assault leaves its deep-rooted scars on the entire persona of the child. “These scars do not heal up ever, despite the best medical aid. They are corrosive in nature, corroding every smile, every pleasant memory and every moment of happiness coming to the survivor’s way,” the court observed.
 
 A compensation of Rs 3 lakh was awarded to the survivor in addition Rs 20,000, which would be given to him from the fine amount.
 
 The convict was the survivor’s neighbour and robbed off the child of his jovial and carefree childhood, the court noted. “In a country, where idols are worshipped and rivers treated as mother-figure, fasts are performed frequently for the long life of one’s husband and children, it is an unfortunate scenario that some of these ‘children’, who are blessed with a long life are forced to live the life of frustration, depression and morbidity,” it said.
 
 The prosecution had argued that on September 8, 2014, the convict took the minor to his house on the pretext of feeding him. As there was no news of the child for a long time, the child’s mother went to the convict’s house and saw him fleeing from there. She found the child in an unconscious state.
 
 The minor’s statement revealed that he was beaten up and sodomised, but the convict claimed that he had been falsely implicated the case following a quarrel with the child’s family. Finding the testimonies of the witnesses and the survivor trustworthy, the court found the man guilty.
 
 
