BHOPAL: Within just nine hours,   were dispensed from a vending machine that was installed at   on the first day of the year. Bhopal station has become the first railway station in the country to have installed such a machine. 

 Named ‘Happy Nari’, the sanitary napkin dispensing machine was installed at platform number 1 of   station by the   division. A local NGO Arushi helped in the project.
 
 The machine has a capacity of storing 75 sanitary napkins at once, which will be refilled by a female staff attendant at the waiting room who has been specially trained for it. 
 
 It came as a new year gift to women passengers. According to railway officials on the very first day, the machine was refilled nine times. This clearly shows the need for it. The machine was installed near the waiting room to facilitate women passengers. They can get two napkin for just in Rs 5. 
 
 It was inaugurated by the eldest grade IV worker of the railway station Anjali Thakur. She cut the ribbon and inserted a five rupees coin and withdrew sanitary napkins. The machine monitoring company had provided a stock of around 500 napkins at the railway station for refilling. But in just six hours, they had to come back with another 500 napkins as the machine ran out of stock.
 
 Monitoring in-charge   said, “This machine makes easy availability and accessibility of sanitary napkins for female passengers. Even before the inauguration, there were few women who asked us for napkins. We helped them by giving it away from the stock. One of the passengers thanked us as her train was to leave the platform soon when she was in need.”
 
 “We will make sure that it is well maintained. The railway will also advertises it so that females passengers are aware about the facility and can make optimum use of it,” he added, 
 
 Bhopal railway division PRO IA   said, “The Women welfare association will bear the subsidised amount of sanitary napkins. This machine is a pilot project, if we observe there is more demand, then we’ll install a machine at platform number 6 and at Habibganj railway station too.”
 
 
