KOZHIKODE:   University syndicate has decided to entrust varsity standing counsel P C Sasidharan to appear on its behalf in the two quo warranto petitions against vice-chancellor K Mohammed Basheer in the high court questioning his eligibility for appointment to the post. 

 The syndicate set aside the order issued by the vice chancellor on Monday to entrust   C P with the case saying that Sasidharan was "incapacitated to appear in the case".
 
 The syndicate meeting held on Thursday took the decision in a majority vote with only the VC and pro vice-chancellor not supporting.
 
 However, the implementation of the syndicate decision will have to wait as the vice-chancellor told the meeting that he would refer the matter to the governor, the varsity's chancellor, invoking Section 10 (16) of the CU Act.
 
 Syndicate member   who raised the issue at the meeting said that once the standing counsel is appointed by the syndicate then it is his prerogative to represent the varsity in court.
 
 Haneefa said the vice-chancellor does not have powers to engage lawyers on behalf of the varsity.
 
 The VC contented that Sasidharan had "conflict of interest" in the case as he had earlier appeared for a petitioner challenging the provisions in the notification issued in 2015 for the appointment of vice-chancellor.
 
 The VC also told the meeting that Mohammed Nias C P had been appointed to represent the varsity in cases in which the standing counsel had conflict of interest and the syndicate had earlier ratified it.
 
 The   (ACT) had filed a quo warranto petition contending that Basheer did not have the requisite minimum qualification of 10 years of experience as professor in a university system or 10 years of experience in an equivalent position in a reputed research and/ or academic administrative organization as prescribed by   Regulation 2010. Acting on the petition, the high court had in March issued directions to issue notices to the vice-chancellor and the university to reply to the issues raised in the petition.
 
 
