While you will be advised to avoid all kinds of foods that are high in saturated fats, you may not realise that there are essential food habits which may hamper your goal.

  Don’t fret! Low cholesterol eating is easier to adapt to with these simple food swaps.
 
 
 
 
  With a high amount of soluble fibre, oats can lower both total cholesterol and LDL or bad cholesterol. You can add them to your daily diet in the form of oats porridge (sweet or savoury), rotis made from oats flour or even cholesterol-friendly pancakes, which are tasty too.
 
  
 
 
  Whether it is white bread, white rice or white sugar, replace them with brown bread, brown rice or brown jaggery and honey. It is easy to find these healthy brown food products these days.
 
  
 
 
  Even though you cannot cook all your food in olive oil, try to use it wherever you can. So use olive oil for cooking curries or drizzle your salad with an olive oil dressing instead of the regular creamy one.
 
  
 
 
  You need not avoid eggs if you want to lower your cholesterol levels; you just need to make changes in the way you eat them. So instead of eating fried eggs or omelettes, have your eggs boiled, you can also have poached eggs without butter.
 
  
 
 
  While you cannot avoid red meats like beef, lamb and pork, which are high in fat, try eating lean meats in moderation to get the required nutrients. Add vegetables while cooking the meats to increase the dietary fibre. You can also go for fish, especially salmon, which has levels of omega-3 fatty acids that improves the good cholesterol levels.
 
  
 
 
  Don’t reach out for biscuits or cookies whenever you feel like having a snack. Keep unsalted nuts handy and munch on them whenever you feel hungry in between meals. You will avoid sugar and other ingredients in the cookies while also getting helpful nutrients from the nuts.
 
  
 
 
  Start with semi-skimmed milk that is lower in saturated fat and slowly banish full fat milk entirely from your kitchen. Use it in your porridge or morning tea/coffee and you will soon make the final switch.
 
  
 
 
  Try a mixed fresh fruit platter instead of the heavy desserts that will load you with more cholesterol and calories. Once you do the switch, you will realise that the fresh fruits will also satisfy your post meal sugar cravings.
 
 
