NEW DELHI: A   in   would be   for the first time by the   of the Delhi government and Intach Delhi Chapter. The temple at   is considered a rare and beautiful building, much of which has been damaged. 

 This is the first and only temple on the list of heritage buildings shortlisted by the government and Intach; the rest are mosques, gumbads, gardens and tombs etc. Not much is known about the temple, though it is quite revered and visited by a large number of worshippers even from far off places. “The temple appears to be an 18th or 19th-century structure. Its fine plasterwork is in the late Mughal style,” said an official. 
 
 Officials say the temple interiors have many striking paintings that would be conserved. “First, the paintings will be cleaned, then consolidated. There are many points where the plaster is peeling off and that has to be carefully corrected. There are some sculptures that are damaged or dilapidated and which we will consolidate. Our part will involve only strengthening and consolidating the paintings or sculptures; we will not be recreating anything broken,” said an official. 
 
 The external facade would also be cleaned and repaired wherever necessary. 
 
 Nangal Dewat village has a fascinating history itself. Some say the freedom struggle began from this village and   himself had visited the village in the 1930s to praise the villagers for their courage. 
 
 “Delhi has had urban settlements for many centuries, and is famous for its numerous fortified cities. At the same time there are many villages that often have a longer history than the urban centres. Some of these villages, which were established on the flat plain of the  , have traditionally had predominantly farming populations. Some that are on the drier and more uneven terrain might have had a more pastoralist occupation,” said an official.
 
 The project has seen three phases so far and the conservation of over 50 monuments. The temple is part of the fourth phase. A detailed project report (DPR) has been prepared with a comprehensive architectural documentation, condition analysis and archival exploration. The document would not only guide the forthcoming conservation work but also become a strong documentary record for the future. 
 
 
