Nagpur: Nitesh Choudhary (27), who has 17 offences registered against him at different police stations, opened fire at the cops who were trying to pin him down at the busy Raut Chowk in Lalgunj on Saturday. The cops from Shantinagar police station were saved by a whisker as Choudhary, who was in an inebriated state, fired at them from a close range. A country-made pistol, four live cartridges, an empty shell, and a car were seized from him. The Lalgunj residents and shopkeepers witnessed a the drama as the gun-wielding goon tried to sneak away from the cops’ clutches. After dodging a bullet, police constable Rajesh Ghongre pounced upon an armed Choudhary with a tile to defend before pinning him down. Sources said that Ghongre, along with his senior colleague Vijay Kadu and others, initially took Choudhary’s pistol lightly presuming it to be a ‘toy-gun’. Choudhary, who has faced externment in the past, was released from the jail last year after Lakadganj police had nabbed him for robbery. Kadu, while serving at Tehsil police station in the past, too had arrested Choudhary once for vehicle theft. Choudhary had 11 offences against him at Tehsil police station.  Police said the drama kicked off after Choudhary reached the place in a car before threatening pharmacy shopkeeper Prem Nimje for Rs500 at gun-point. As Nimje refused, Choudhary started creating a ruckus, which was noticed by passers-by. Someone alerted the control room while an informer called up Kadu telling him about the gun-wielding goon. A local resident, on the condition of anonymity, said that Choudhary also threatened passers-by telling them to mind their own business. “Choudhary frequents the place as he is likely to have a friend staying nearby,” said a shopkeeper. Police said Choudhary was standing near the car when the cops arrived. Choudhary, who was startled at seeing the cops, started fleeing towards a lane followed by the cops. Kadu said the cops surrounded him despite his threatens. Choudhary also pelted stones at them, in which a parked car got damaged. “It was a heart-stopper to see the live cartridges as we did not expected the gun to be real. We did not expected him to turn back and suddenly fire. It was unexpected,” said Kadu and Ghongre. The cops from Lakadganj, Tehsil and Pachpaoli police stations too had reached the spot after the incident. Police said Choudhary had brought the car from another hardened goon, Musa, the son of a former police personnel. Musa is wanted in a case of rioting registered at Mankapur police station. Choudhary brought the firearm and cartridges from Talegaon in Wardha district where the cops are now set to visit.  Two offences have been registered against Choudhary. The Shantinagar police have registered an offence against Choudhary for attacking cops with firearms. Pachpaoli police have registered an offence of extortion against him following a complaint from the pharmacy owner owner.