MOHALI: As many as 1,040 people have been killed in 2,065 accidents in last four years in  , indicating that a life is lost every 36 hours on the roads. 

 Police data has revealed 34 people lost their lives in December 2017 alone, with a total of 282 deaths and 364 injuries in 512 road accidents last year. Similar was the situation in 2016, when 565 accidents took place in which 284 people died and 423 injured. In January 2018, 19 deaths were reported in Mohali, while six fatalities took place on the airport road alone, said a police official. According to data, out of 282 deaths last year, 36 were at the airport road. 
 
 
  
 
 "Poor road infrastructure, illegal crossings, lack of proper road signages, no checks on speeding vehicles and drunk driving are the major causes of the rising number of fatal accidents," said road safety expert Pavitar Pal Singh Virdi. He said poor infrastructure results in potholes, making driving risky for commuters. Lack of traffic police personnel is cited as a reason for people speeding on the roads. "Cops are missing from various accident-prone spots. District police have only 130 traffic cops to man the roads against a population exceeding 5 lakh," said Virdi. 
 
 Senior superintendent of police (SSP)   said, "We are arranging for more force. Alcometers and speed governors are being repaired after which we will increase checking on the roads. People will also be made aware about overspeeding." 
 
 The district police have identified 39 black spots in the district. A black spot, according to police, is a point that could be a road stretch, light point or a roundabout, where accidents occur frequently. 
 
 The most infamous ones are the stretch near Khanpur crossing and   on National Highway 21 on   road, airport crossing on 200ft wide airport road, five spots from airport chowk to Banur-Landran road T-point, PTL crossing, Singh Shaheedan traffic crossing, S-turning on airport road, Zirakpur flyover, Phase III-V traffic light point and Kumbra crossing apart from some spots in Kharar, Zirakpur, Derabassi and Lalru.
 
 Residents feel the district administration must install caution signages on such black spots warning commuters to slow down. The police had also proposed to the administration to install cat-eyes and warning signboards besides pelican lights, but to no avail. 
 
 
