NEW DELHI: Former India batsman Kris Srikanth is impressed with the way fast bowlers   and   have bowled in the  . Avesh, representing the Delhi Daredevils and Mavi, playing for Kolkata Knight Riders, have bowled with their tail up, and even though the numbers haven't really been in their favour yet, Srikanth praised both pacers for the promise they have shown.

 
 
 
 “A matter of joy is some of the unheralded Indian bowlers catching the eye with impressive performances in this IPL. Among them, Avesh Khan with his raw pace and disconcerting bounce and Shivam Mavi with his fluid action and nice rhythm, have impressed me the most,” Srikanth wrote in his column for TOI on Wednesday.
 
 
 
 “The numbers might not stack up favourably for this duo, yet if moulded properly, they can serve Indian cricket well for a long time, in all formats. Even in a run filled game in Pune, Avesh proved his mettle by hitting the bat high and hard. To hurry class batsmen with pace is a rare quality and bowling fast is an art that can hardly be taught.”
 
 Avesh, in three games has figures of 2/36 against Kings XI Punjab, 2/29 against KKR and 0/28 against Chennai Super Kings, whereas Mavi, one of India’s star performers during India’s Under 19 triumoh in New Zealand in January-February, has three wickets from six   games. Srikanth, despite having seen promise in both, gave the edge to Avesh, and for certain reasons. The Daredevils will be playing Rajasthan Royals on Wednesday and will be hoping for Avesh to deliver the goods.
 
 “Just for his air speed and fearless approach, I would pick Avesh ahead of the others. To bowl on these shirtfronts for less than eight per over and to also pick up wickets is no mean feat. Imagine the kind of effect he would have on wickets that would support his skills. Well I have seen a few Indian speedsters who have clocked 140kph plus in the last 10 years. What makes Avesh stand out is his consistency. Agreed that four over spells are easy on the body, yet the makings of a genuine fast bowler is unmistakable,” Srikanth, who scored 6153 runs for India across ODIs and Tests, mentioned.
 
 “Mavi, on the other hand, might have gone for a few runs but the fact that he is bowling at the death, makes his pace a liability. The under-19 star would do well with experience and a few more big games under his belt. The world often loses sheer raw pace to line and length and economy rates. Quick bowlers must be encouraged to run in hard and bowl quick. Believe me as an opening batsman it was tough to stand up to these pacers and score. Cricket will be dull if quality fast bowlers don’t exist.”
 
 On Saturday, Avesh and Mavi were reprimanded for breaching the IPL Code of Conduct. They were issued reprimands for two separate incidents during the match between KKR and Daredevils DD at the Feroz Shah Kotla.
 
