BENGALURU: BJP MLA B N  , who was contesting from   for the third time, died due to   on Thursday night. He was 59.

 The new development has necessitated the Election Commission to put off the polls in the constituency. The rescheduled election date will be announced later.
 
 Vijayakumar had collapsed while campaigning in his constituency on Thursday evening. He was rushed to Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, where he breathed his last after battling for life for over six hours. He was declared dead at 1am on Friday. According to doctors, his blood pressure and heart beat were dismally low when he was brought to the hospital. He had also undergone an emergency procedure on Thursday evening.
 
 In March, much before the announcement of elections, Vijayakumar had undergone a cardiac procedure in the same hospital. His close aides said on Thursday too he was supposed to go the hospital for a check-up. “But he neglected it owing to election pressure,” said a BJP party worker.
 
 Vijayakumar was known for his sober behaviour, simple lifestyle and clean image. Starting his public life as an RSS worker, Vijayakumar rose to become Bengaluru BJP president and state BJP vice-president.
 
 As soon as the news of his death spread, grief-stricken party workers and well-wishers thronged his residence in Jayanagar to pay their last respects. Union ministers H N Ananth Kumar and D V Sadananda Gowda also visited the house.
 
 Great loss to party
 
 Vijayakumar commanded respect from corporators across the party lines. Former mayor and corporator B S Satyanarayana, who knew Vijayakumar since 1980s, said his loss would be felt greatly within the party. “He was the most disciplined and straightforward man. Everyone works during election season, but he was focused on doing good work throughout the year. At the BBMP-level also, he would give suggestions and advise us on how to do good work. If the city had 10 MLAs like him, it would have been a much better place,” said Satyanarayana, corporator of Basavanagudi ward.
 
 First-time corporator B M Shobha from Jaraganahalli ward said, “He was always encouraging and offered suggestions. At party meetings, he would be approachable and give us a chance to speak.”
 
 K N Lakshmi Nataraj, corporator from JP Nagar, recalled his qualities of interacting with corporators and discussing developmental work.
 
 His opponent in Jayanagar assembly constituency Sowmya Reddy tweeted on Friday: “I am really shocked & saddened by hearing the news of Vijayakumar Sir. I had the highest respect for him. He was a true gentleman, down to earth and a wonderful human being and politician, humble and friendly to all. Vijayakumar Sir, May your soul find peace in heaven.”
 
 
