VISAKHAPATNAM: A community surveillance system comprising seven night vision  , located at important locations and interlinked by Wi-Fi to a central monitoring station, was inaugurated by DCP K Fakeerappa at   Layout on Saturday.

 Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) A   launched the push-to-talk units. These were implemented as part of Let’s Get Smart Kirlampudi — a   initiative of   (a CSR arm of  ). CitYzen has collaborated with the Kirlampudi Residents Welfare Association (KRWA) and have taken up many initiatives in the past three years. In addition to the support extended by CitYzen, two of the installed cameras were sponsored by the residents of the colony.
 
 On this occasion, DCP Dr Fakeerappa Kaginelli said that more colonies in the city should come up with such initiatives to make Vizag a safer city. He also appreciated the efforts of CitYzen and KRWA in implementing such initiatives. City Police Commissioner T Yoganand, in a message to the resident of the colony, appreciated the initiative.
 
 They also explained the various technological initiatives being taken up by Visakhapatnam police to prevent the criminal activities in Visakhapatnam. 
 
 They interacted with the residents of the colony. Wholetime Director, Fluentgrid Limited, Vani Gannamani, and President, Andhra Pradesh Federation of Resident Welfare Associations and Secretary of KRWA,  , were present during the inauguration.
 
 Apart from the CCTV cameras and smart street lighting, Kirlampudi Colony had initiated several programmes such as terrace farming, detailed colony map at each entrance, composting, rain water harvesting pits and other eco-friendly measures. For the street-side vendors in the colony, they have installed six all-weatherproof kiosks at free of cost. 
 
 About 50 percent garbage from the colony is source segregated and now the residents are planning to take it to 100 percent.
 
 For their efforts and services, Kirlampudi Colony was honoured as the best colony of the city with the ‘People’s and Public Participatory Initiative’ certificates from the GVMC on August 15, 2017.
 
  president and Kirlampudi Residents’ Welfare Association (KRWA) Secretary, Uday Shirname, explained that the KRWA had entered into a MoU with the ‘citYzen’, the CSR arm of Fluentgrid, to develop it as a smart colony in 2015. “The ‘citYzen’ had already conducted various workshops in addition to adding infrastructure to the colony. They have set up five kiosks for the street vendors and one kiosk was contributed by the Rohit Memorial Trust. The CCTV footage is centrally monitored,” said Uday Shirname.
 
 
