PUNE: District   Saurabh Rao on Saturday assured that no construction activity would be carried out on the   land that was leased out to the Agri Horticultural Society of Western India (AHSWI) by the state government for 30 years in 1989.

 The assurance comes days after environmentalists and   raised objection to the government’s plan to construct quarters on survey number 504 of the garden.
  
  
 
 Rao said a fresh measurement of both survey numbers — 500 and 504 as mentioned in the lease deed — will be carried out within the next eight days in the presence of society members and district administration. “The assurance comes as a big relief. The measurement will bring about a clarity to the total area,” honorary secretary of AHSWI   said after a meeting the collector on Saturday.
 
 AHSWI and activists have maintained that both the survey numbers — 500 and 504 measuring 37 acres and 12 gunthas — are part of the lease deed, while the district administration contended that the records mentioned survey number 500 as “Empress Garden” (39.55 acres) and survey number 504 as “bungalow number 10 with compound Sholapur Road” (10.78 acres).
 
 Rao said the measurement of both the survey numbers will give a clear picture of the land belonging to the Empress garden and to the government. “Once the measurement is complete, we will ensure that there is no construction on the 37 acres and 12 gunthas of land mentioned in the lease deed,” he said, adding that the state will take a call on the remaining land.
 
 The collector said if the society members feel that there should be no construction on the remaining land belonging to the government, they will have to send a proposal, following which the government will take the final call. “The administration also understands the necessity of green patches in the city,” he said.
 
 The collector said the lease agreement mentions both the survey numbers covering 37 acres and 12 gunthas. He, however, questioned Pingle on why there was poor utilisation of survey no 504. Pingle, on his part, said it was meant for the staff quarters of the garden.
 
 “The lease agreement will end next year. Both the survey numbers have a total of 38 acres and not 49 acres. The measurement will give a clear picture. Our land measurement of 2006 had stated that survey number 500 had 32 acres and survey number 504 had only six acres, Pingle said.
 
 When pointed out that a 2015 document had seen the society agree that their leased land was only in survey number 500, Pingle said it was “inadvertently done” and they maintain that there was no extra land. He, however, later admitted that there is a possibility of some extra land.
 
 
