Nagpur: Unrestricted development will result in 25% lower genetic diversity and reduction in tiger numbers due to extinction of several small populations in the landscape. In this backdrop, tigers in small protected areas (PAs) like Bor and Tipeshwar may face extinction if road development goes unchecked. “Protecting corridors is critical to preserve tiger genetic diversity and to minimize extinction into the next century,” says the study carried out in the Central Indian Landscape (CIL) by a team of researchers from National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), Bengaluru, Wildlife Conservation Trust (WCT), and Foundation for Ecological Research, Advocacy & Learning (FERAL) and University of Montana. With 34% forest cover and an estimated 688 tigers, the CIL is a stronghold for tiger conservation. The PAs in the landscape are embedded in a heterogeneous matrix of multiple land-use types. This was evident when Bor’s dominant tiger Bajirao died in road hit recently. The researchers used genetic information in fecal samples collected from wild tigers to understand how landscape features like roads and agriculture impact tiger movement in Central India. They found that high traffic roads and densely populated urban areas are detrimental to tiger movement. Both, urban areas and road traffic are set to increase in the future. In order to understand how tiger connectivity might be impacted by this development, the researchers simulated 86 different development scenarios. “We collected around 580 scat samples between October 2012 and April 2014 from 11 PAs in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh and territorial areas of Balaghat, Bramhapuri and Central Chanda,” says Prachi Thatte, lead author of the study. Thatte warned several individual populations may go extinct and unrestricted development may result in 25% lower genetic diversity and reduction in tiger numbers due to the extinction of several small populations in the landscape, especially the loss of forest cover around PAs will have a strong negative impact on tiger connectivity in the future. Such forest cover loss will be especially bad for PAs like Navegaon-Nagzira, Umred-Karhandla, Bor and Tipeshwar. “Our results highlight need for informed development plans that consider biodiversity and connected wildlife populations in addition to human development goals” she adds. “It is important that the Central India tiger population is managed as a network of PAs connected by corridors. Looking at the increasing demands for infrastructure within tiger habitats, it is high time cost of mitigation measures are factored in the project planning stage itself, especially where no alternatives exist. This will help create a win-win situation for both, tigers and economy,” says Aditya Joshi, WCT researcher. “There is no doubt that to sustain our economic growth, there is a need to expand infrastructure facilities. Currently, we are allowing rapid expansion of infrastructure without considering its potential impacts and how it might affect the nation's effort to conserve tiger populations. Our results highlight that along with our efforts to increase tiger numbers within PAs, a lot more needs to be done to meet the targets we have set for the year 2020 to double the tiger population in the country,” says Srinivas Vaidyanathan, co-author of the paper. “We hope the research will bridge gaps between science and policy in India,” adds Dr Uma Ramakrishnan of NCBS. Development vs Tigers * The study modelled how NH6 & NH7 become barriers in the future. The two highways bisect vital corridors * The exact loss in numbers is very difficult to predict but if future development is unplanned, tiger numbers will go down * Lack of protected corridors will prevent re-colonization once populations go extinct * Study calls for regional land-use management and planning exercises aimed at managing tiger populations as a network of PAs connected with corridors * The average extinction risk of small PAs will reduce by 23—70% if a 5km buffer is added around existing boundaries