PUNE: Fifteen men, all members of  , were arrested on Wednesday by the   police for damaging eight vehicles on Vadgaon bridge along Katraj–Dehu Road bypass after Tuesday midnight to protest against the release of Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s “Padmaavat” in the city.

  
 
 One of the affected truck drivers, Mahesh Bhapkar (30) of   in Thane, lodged a complaint with the police stating that the suspects also robbed him of Rs 2,700 in cash. The damaging spree led to an hour-long traffic jam on the bypass which links the Mumbai and Bengaluru highways.
 
 All 15 men were produced before a magisterial court which ordered their remand in police custody till January 27. 
 
 The remand report was moved by assistant public prosecutor Dnyaneshwar More on behalf of   police’s assistant inspector M N Nagargoje. It stated that the protesters robbed Rs 3,900 in cash from people along the bypass while on the rampage. 
 
 Bhapkar’s complaint said he was heading towards   in Mumbai with a loaded truck. When he reached the Vadgaon bridge, a group of 25 to 30 men, suddenly came on to the road. The suspects were carrying sticks, saffron flags and shouting slogans demanding a ban on the film. They also raised slogans against the release of the film on Friday.
 
 The men, who brought vehicular movement on the bypass to a halt, smashed the front windshield of Bhapkar’s truck. 
 
 Many vehicles halted behind Bhapkar’s truck and the men deflated the tyres of about 10 heavy vehicles. Traffic towards Mumbai/Hinjewadi from Katraj halted for an hour.
 
 The Sinhagad Road police, who arrived at the spot, rounded up 15 protesters, but the others managed to escape. The arrested men have been charged with rioting, robbery and causing mischief on a public road. All are natives of Rajasthan and either run small shops or work in the shops in and around Sinhagad Road area.
 
 It took an hour for the police to clear the traffic on the busy section of the highway. A mechanic was summoned to the spot to fill air in the tyres.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (Zone II) Pravin Mundhe said police have recorded a detailed statement of the driver and further action will be taken. All suspects who fled will be arrested, police said. The FIR said the suspects shouted slogans like ‘we will not allow film to be released’ and threatened to cause a major traffic jam.
 
 Joint police commissioner Ravindra Kadam said, “We have conducted a meeting with some members of group who are opposed to the release of the film. They have promised us they will not indulge in any violence or protest in the city,” he said.
 
 
