NAGPUR: Almost every end stage organ failure patient carries many infections, especially antibiotic resistant, as by the time that they reach for transplant they have undergone multiple hospitalizations and acquired many hospitals-borne infections too. These infections are much more in a liver failure patient and hence infection management plays a bigger role in liver transplant than other organs transplants.

 For liver transplant, the cure rate is always better when the person is referred early or timely for the transplant. It also means that post-operative infection management strategies in liver transplant need to be the best.
 
 “Patients requiring liver transplant carry many resistant bugs with them and post-operatively they are prone to both viral and fungal infections. Hence, besides the operation theatre the liver transplant intensive care unit requires all the protective measures like isolation rooms, positive pressure ventilation. We were preparing for all this before launching our transplant programme,” said Dr Gaurav  , liver transplant surgeon at Wockhardt, which is soon starting the transplant programme. The hospital already has a waiting list of five patients.
 
 Dr Gupta said mortality rate in liver surgery has gone down by 1-2% because of latest techniques like use of a thrombo-elasto-gram which decreases blood requirement in the surgery. The one-year survival rate after liver transplant is about 90%, but after that the survival increases minimum by 10 years. Major complications occur only in first two months, he said.
 
 “First six months after the transplant, patient must eat only home cooked food, drink only boiled water and not mineral water, avoid crowded places and completely avoid alcohol. He needs to just maintain the two tablets regime later and see doctor once a year. Of course, blood tests are needed every few months. In women, after liver transplant they can have pregnancy,” he said.
 
 Surgery in Wockhardt with hospital stay of about three weeks costs about Rs18.5 lakh. Patient requires about Rs8 to Rs10,000 monthly lifelong for medication. “Mostly, average patients manage the funds for transplant somehow but they cannot sustain lifelong medication. To such people we advise to avoid transplant and not waste money,” said Dr Gupta.
 
 Dr Gupta contested that despite all the expertise, live donor transplant was always difficult though the survival rate was the same in cadaver transplant. But most challenging is the paediatric or child liver transplant. “Weight of the child is most important. Lower the weight, more difficult is the surgery. Most common reason for liver failure in children is biliary atresia (child born without bile ducts). Here corrective surgery needs to be done in first two months of birth. If this is done, transplant may not be required.
 
 
