CHANDIGARH: Punjab and   high court’s former registrar (recruitment) Balwinder Sharma never used his official vehicle to visit  , the mastermind of   (judicial) paper leak scam. Instead, he booked taxis through an online cab aggregator’s mobile app.

 In its chargesheet, filed in a Chandigarh court, the special investigation team (SIT) has even listed as a witness one of the cab drivers,  , who dropped Sharma to Sunita’s house in Sector 18 of Chandigarh. The document also includes statements of various witness and evidence against the accuse underlining that everything was pre-planned and they work with precision to avoid any suspicion.
 
 Meanwhile, the case was transferred to special Court on Saturday. The court of additional district and sessions Judge   would hear this case from Monday.
 
 SIT has also listed a pen drive and laptop of former registrar as case evidence. Interestingly, the pen drive was formatted after the question paper was transferred but the police managed to recover it with the help of   (CFSL).
 
 It was on July 10, 2017, that Sharma went to Sector 24, Chandigarh, and in the park there handed over a copy of question paper to Sunita at around 8pm. She later sold the paper for Rs 1.5 crore each to several candidates. It was stated in the Chargesheet that the two stopped talking over the phone after February 2017, they sued WhatsApp visited each other.
 
 SIT has listed 40 witnesses, including chairman and secretary of the   commission as a prime witness. In addition, employee of the HC who made entries of persons visiting Sharma in his office have been named as witness too. The entry record of Sunita visiting Sharma’s office with different diaries are another major evidence to show that how they conspired the whole act, the SIT has said.
 
 It was revealed in the investigation that Sharma and Sunita knew each other since 2014 and were on good terms with each other. According to the chargesheet, they went to Brahmsarovar in   in December 2016, and stayed at Jat dharamshala there. Again in March through June 2017, they were together at many places, show their mobile tower locations.
 
 Running into 2,140 pages, the chargesheet states that the investigation against the third main accused Sushila is under way and the police could file supplementary chargehseet if they found more evidence in this case
 
 On next date of hearing a copy of the chargesheet would be supplied to the accused, following which the trial would begin.
 
 The scam unearthed
 
 The entire scam came to fore after  , a resident of Pinjore in Panchkula district, filed a petition in the high court seeking registration of a criminal case into leakage of the question paper for the examination of the prestigious Haryana Civil Services (judicial). She had produced an audio recording of some candidates claiming most of the seats for the selection of candidates had already been sold for Rs 1.5 crore and the selection of the candidates had already been finalised. She had specifically named two woman candidates, Sunita and Sushila, claiming they were involved in the scam. Later, the court had found both Sunita (general category) and Sushila (reserved category) had topped the examination with exceptionally high marks in their respective categories. The high court's internal probe had found Balwinder Sharma was responsible for leak of the examination paper and recommended registration of an FIR in the case.
 
 
