NAGPUR: Vijayata  , head of the department at Nagpur University’s (NU) College of Law, held a marriage ceremony breaching all the norms and without permission at the   (LIT) campus, which houses the sensitive exam section.

 Bhalave had booked the hall of   Employees Cooperative Society for February 8 at a paltry fee of Rs 8,000. However, the function was eventually organized on an adjacent piece of land belonging to NU, and not the society. 
 
 Bhalave refused to comment on the issue. Her father too was the society member and former assistant registrar.
 
 The audacity of Bhalave family came as a surprise for not just the society office-bearers but also the top NU officials, who were not aware of the incident till it was reported in a section of media.
 
 Following this, vice-chancellor SP Kane ordered the society to suspend all functions, including marriages at the hall, till further orders.
 
 Kane has taken a tough stance against allowing private functions on NU properties. The VC had refused permission to hold ‘First Matoshree Memorial Oration’ in memory of academician Dr Vedprakash Mishra at the Convocation Hall in December. While rejecting the request, he had specifically mentioned that “private/family functions can’t be held on NU property”.
 
 “I was not in town for the last four days. On Wednesday, I will call the records and verify the facts. The employee, if found guilty, will be punished,” Kane said.
 
 He added that the society president Rahul   did inform him that DJ was played in breach of norms and no permission was given for using the adjacent land.
 
 Kharabe said the booking was done only for the hall which is owned by the society. “We don’t have any control over the land. The society has a ground+4 building and has a capacity of 300-400 people. The rest of the floors have Promarc office and society office. Society caretakers had called me up when they saw the pandal coming up on the adjacent land. We immediately took an undertaking from the society member that they will be responsible for consequences,” he said.
 
 Kharabe said the hall is rented out as a source of income for the society to university employees at a subsidized rate of Rs 10,000, including Rs 2,000 deposit. “It is taken for granted that the ground comes with the hall,” he said.
 
 Kharabe said that DJ and Shehnai were played and decoration was done without permission. “The society has objected to this,” he added.
 
 
