CHANDIGARH: Now, the Panjab University (PU) hostels will be cleaned twice a day. Panjab University vice-chancellor (VC) Prof Arun Kumar Grover, on a three-hour visit to the university hostels here on Sunday, asked the dean student welfare ( ) to bring about the provision of   the hostels in evenings as well. The decision has been taken in the face of the hostellers complaining of cleanliness issues in their hostels.

 The VC visited the boys’ hostel number 5, 6, 7 and girls’ hostel number 3, 4, 6, 8 and 9. Grover saw the arrangements in the new reading rooms created in the hostels. “We have created reading rooms in all the hostels for the students who are unable to visit the AC   library due to different reasons. Sometimes students don’t go to the library in the night. So, we have created this provision for their convenience,” said DSW Prof   adding that the VC has instructed his office to identify extra spaces in the hostels and convert them into reading rooms for the students. 
 
 Moreover, Grover on Sunday asked the DSW to create provision for coffee and tea for the students in the reading rooms since they study till late night. Another proposal is to install air conditioners in the reading rooms. 
 
 Grover has also suggested creating a dining hall for the faculty members in the girls’ hostel number 9. Since the faculty members sometimes have guests visiting them or are unable to go home for meals, so the VC has suggested utilizing the wide dining area in the girls’ hostel number 9 by creating this hall especially for the faculty members. The hostel is in Sector 25 campus which houses big departments like UIET, Dr   and basic medical sciences block. 
 
 Moreover, Grover also suggested that proper lighting should be done and a path should be created connecting the girls’ hostel number 6 with the Guru   reading hall. During the visit to the hostels in Sector 25, Grover asked the DSW to review the status of the completion of the   hostel. “We have already assigned the works to the wardens and now we will prepare a weekly report on the status of the work in the hostel number 10 and submit it to the VC every week,” said Grover. 
 
 The girls hostel number 10 was to open admissions by August end this year, however, the XEN office gave another deadline and had stated that the hostel will be ready by December end. The hostel is not yet ready for admissions and after the VC’s visit to the hostel last week, the authorities were told that the hostel would be ready by mid-February.
 
 
