She ran like she always does, corner to corner, swinging, steering, playing it back. One more time, every time. Then, after almost 3-hours on court, topseeded  's backhand found the bottom of the net on championship point. 

 
 Caroline   tossed her racket aside and fell on her back sobbing, she covered her face with her hands and lay on the Rod Laver Arena. When she got up, oscillating between crying and smiling, the winner of the 2018  , a first-time Grand Slam titlist, greeted her opponent at the net before bowing to the full house.
 
 The striking Dane - the first from her country to win a major trophy, claiming it on her 43rd appearance with a 7-6 (7-2), 3-6, 6-4 win - showed there's a prize for patience, for persistence, for staying and seeking. Wozniacki took home AUD 4,000,000, the   and the No.1 ranking. The 27-year-old, who will return to the top spot on Monday, will be back at No.1 after six years, a WTA record for time between stints in the numero uno position.
 
  
 
 The leader of the women's game - American legend   - handed Wozniacki the trophy, which accompanied her wherever she went, long after she left the Rod Laver Arena. "Let me take a moment to hold this trophy," Wozniacki, supporting the historic piece of silverware on her hip, said before turning to her box. "My dad has always been there for me, supporting me and coaching me from when I started as a seven-year-old old, dreaming of winning a big title. My fiancé David Lee calmed me down this morning. I was so tense, I wanted to win this so badly. It's special to start the year like this - Grand Slam champion and being No.1 sounds pretty good."
 
 Wozniacki is a quintessential counter puncher, chasing balls and swinging her arms, likes the first strike, but doesn't always make the most of it. But there's a new sting to her strokes, that may not outplace but can outweigh as Halep saw.
 
 The first set, which for most part was about finding and feeling, saw the Dane shoot ahead to a 4-1 lead, but Halep, supported by her Australian coach the immovable  , was playing herself in. In the ninth game, Wozniacki, looking to serve out the set, was broken.
 
 In the course of the fifth game of the second set, Halep asked the chair umpire   to call the doctor. The Romanian, who had a headache was feeling dizzy, and was duly attended to. She took a swig from what looked like a medicinal bottle in the next change over, Cahill signaled for her to do so.
 
 After 1 hour and 38 minutes of play - with the players having split the sets - the heat rule came into effect. The second seed powered to a 2-0 lead in the decider, but Halep broke back and even went ahead 4-3. Wozniacki then called for the trainer, taking a medical timeout and having her left knee taped. She returned to break Halep on her second breakpoint opportunity to level scores at 4-4. Wozniacki then won the next two games and closed out on her first championship point. 
 
