SONIPAT: A 19-year-old student barged into the staff room at his college on Tuesday morning and shot his lecturer four times with a pistol killing him on the spot.
 
  
 The incident comes less than two months after an 18-year-old student gunned down his school principal during a parent-teachers meet in Yamuna Nagar of  . The Class XII student had shot the principal, Ritu Chhabra, four times in her face and chest using his father’3s pistol.
 
 Tuesday’s incident was reported around 10am at Shaheed Dalbir Singh Rajkiya Mahavidyalaya located in Peepli of Sonipat, Haryana. The accused, Jagmal, is a second-year arts stream student. The deceased lecturer has been identified as Rajesh Malik (45).
 
 While police have not disclosed the motive for the shooting, sources said that a girl student was at the centre of this episode. “On Monday, the lecturer had caught Jagmal and the girl on the last bench of the class. An argument ensued after which the professor asked them not to attend classes. He had also warned to rusticate them,” said a source.
 
 Malik, a native of Sardhana village, lived in Sector 23 of Sonipat with his family. He was also an advocate at the district courts and was known to be an influential person in the area. He had been employed as an assistant professor of English at the college a year ago.
 
 Jagmal stole his father’s licenced pistol on Monday morning and arrived at the college. Incidentally, Malik’s 17-year-old daughter had also come to meet him for some work. When Jagmal entered the room and confronted Malik, his daughter and a clerk of the college were there. Before Malik’s daughter could intervene, Jagmal shot him from near point blank range in his head and chest. He then fled threatening other students and staffers.
 
 Staffers rushed to help Malik after his daughter raised an alarm. The principal, Jai Prakash, siad that he immediately called Kharkhonda police station. Malik was taken to local hospital where he was declared brought dead. The body has been sent for autopsy. Forensics experts and a crime team have lifted evidence from the spot. An FIR was registered on the daughter’s complaint.
 
 “We have formed teams to arrest the student,” Sonipat SSP Satender Gupta told TOI. Wazeer Redu, the investigating officer, said that raids were conducted at the houses of Jagmal’s friends and relatives in and around Rohna village.
 
 Cops are scanning CCTV footage to establish the sequence of events. The student’s call records are being analysed and his father is also being questioned, police said.
 
 
