NAGPUR: The parking ban on   main road, which came into effect on Wednesday, seems to have fizzled out on Day-2 itself as people have re-started parking their two-wheelers and cars on either side of the road. On Thursday, TOI visited the area in the afternoon and evening only to witness a large number of vehicles parked there. TOI did not see any traffic police personnel patrolling the road.

 The parking ban was enforced on the road between Variety Square and Loha Pul to ease traffic congestion. Despite opposition from the shopkeepers having their establishments on the road, the drive managed to ease congestion on Day-1 thanks to police patrolling the area trying to create awareness.
 
 On Thursday, congestion on the road was intermittent as hawkers had set themselves up on the first few feet of the road because some cars and three-wheelers were parked there. A handful of traffic constables were present at Variety Square and Loha Pul area but they were seen managing traffic only at these locations.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Chaitanya S told TOI that constables were in fact present on the main road enforcing the ban. He said, “We have a strategy to implement the ban in stages. We first want to create awareness among the public about the ban because everyone does not know about it. Later, we will start penalizing motorists if they park vehicles on the main road.”
 
 The DCP further stated that lack of cooperation from shopkeepers is one of the reasons the traffic department is finding it difficult to enforce the ban. “We are currently busy dealing with the writ petition filed by the shopkeepers’ association,” he said.
 
 On one hand, shopkeepers have criticized the ban, on the other public has welcomed it as it eases traffic making some space for pedestrians.
 
 Nilesh Shah of Bombay Emporium on the main road said, “Customers don’t see any point in parking their vehicles on Tekdi Road (  T-Point to  ) and walk up to our shop. This is more of a problem for elderly people. Footfall has gone down significantly and so has business.”
 
 Ujwal Sannadya, who was in the area shopping, said, “The ban is a good idea because people will have more space to walk. Parked vehicles make it difficult to navigate in the market.”
 
 
