HYDERABAD: The move to introduce 'smartbikes' at four   stations, Miyapur, JNTU, KPHB and Kukatpally, for enhanced last-mile connectivity, has failed to take off, say commuters. Reason: lack of ample 'feeder stations' for passengers to park bicycles. 

 At present, there are only three feeder stations at Miyapur junction, JNTU main gate and Cyber Towers for the bike sharing service, which has been rolled out by the   (HBC) in collaboration with   and Nextbike GmbH, a German public bike sharing systems player. A fourth feeder station near the   MMTS station is set to be opened in a month's time.
 
 "The number of feeder stations is very less, given the bike sharing concept. Commuters should be able to easily take bikes from one station and return them at another. Also, all the existing feeder stations are located in the Hi-Tec City area, where the Metro has not even become operational yet," said  , founder of Joyriders Club.
 
 Cycling enthusiasts also point to the lack of extra automated bicycle docking systems at the existing smartbike stations. Agreeing that 'smartbikes' have drawn a tepid response,   managing director,  , said self-drive car company Zoomcar's cycle sharing service PEDL has garnered more uptake. 
 
 "It will take more time for the city to accept the concept. Ever since the Rs 500 deposit fee has been done away with, numbers have improved slightly. Zoomcar has also set up four feeder stations with 250 cycles in Prakash Nagar, Rasoolpura, Paradise and Secunderabad East stations. Their low pricing (Re 1 per hour) is working well. They are looking at expanding rapidly to more stations by adding 1,000 more cycles in the next few weeks," Reddy added.
 
 DV Manohar, chairman of HBC and All-India Bicycling Federation, said interest in 'smartbikes' is 'slowly picking up' and 23 more bike stations will be built in the next four months. "We are trying to create awareness through cycling advocacy drives on social media. Once dedicated cycling tracks are built, more people will turn to this service," said Manohar.
 
 
