NEW DELHI: Only three out of the 37 invited   turned up for Friday's public meeting called by DDA to discuss the suggestions on the proposed amendments to the master plan. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and deputy speaker Rakhi Birla were among those who failed to show up. 

  "This shows the seriousness of the ruling AAP government about the sealing issue, which is affecting lakhs of traders," said Vijender Gupta, leader of the opposition in the assembly and a DDA member. Gupta is also part of DDA's five-member board of inquiry, which is conducting the public hearing. He took to Twitter to allege that "taking city's traders for granted has become a norm for the AAP ministers and MLAs. MLAs, including ministers like Gopal Rai and Imran Hussain, failed to show up". 
 
  Malviya Nagar MLA  , also a DDA member, claimed that his colleagues were not informed about the public meeting and requested DDA to hold the meeting either on Saturday or Monday. "The entire exercise is being done at a short notice," said Bharti. But the board members, which included DDA's engineering and finance members, told Bharti that all members were informed via emails and text messages. 
 
 However,  's chief spokesperson, Saurabh Bharadwaj, who was also absent, also claimed that the MLAs did not receive any intimation about the meeting. "I could have easily gone had I received any information," he added.
 
 Malviya Nagar MLA Somnath Bharti, Rohtas Nagar MLA Sarita Singh and Chhatarpur MLA Kartar Singh Tanwar, who turned up for the meeting, demanded relief for the traders in both rural and urban sections of Delhi. In all, 39 AAP legislators have placed their suggestions.
 
 Tanwar demanded that the existing norms of the master plan that make it mandatory to have a 30-metre approach road for creation of a godown cluster in rural Delhi should be reduced to 15 meters as that much space won't be available in those areas.
 
  The rule on requiring 10 acres for a godown cluster should also be changed, he said. "A cluster should be constructed on 1 acre," he suggested. 
 
 Bharti suggested that areas that have been commercialised by over 70% in E, F and G categories of colonies should be regularised.
 
 Meanwhile, BJP MLA O P Sharma and Bharti had a heated argument after the latter was asked to sit in the area meant for public as he is not part of the inquiry board. Bharti said he was a DDA member and had got the special invite for the meeting.
 
 An India Against Corruption member who was allegedly making some recording was rebuked by Gupta and asked security guards to throw him out.
 
 
