In the latest episode of Rani Rashmoni, Rajchandra’s grandmother is getting better.   promises her to follow all the instructions. She requests a new priest for offering puja at their household.

  has already made a pact with Abhay so that his mother and grandmother don’t have to get worried about Bachashpati Moshai’s curse. He informs Rani Rashmoni about the deal with Abhay.
 
 On the other hand, Prasannamayee’s father   wants to arrange a special programme and invite people on the day   is going to have rice for the first time. But Gadadhar’s family isn’t financially sound. They are hesitant to take financial help from Dharmadas. Ramchand too opposes the idea of taking money from others.
 
 Rani Rashmoni is worried about Soudamini’s wellbeing. She asks Rajchandra to send someone and check whether they are safe. Rajchandra tells her that he has sent Biresh to inquire about them. Rani Rashmoni doesn’t feel that Biresh is dependable. Rajchandra tells her that he was considering Biresh as Soudamini’s groom when   had denied to marry her. Hearing this, Rani Rashmoni gets even more anxious.
 
 Rajchandra and Rani Rashmoni talk about their daughter Korunamayee’s education. Rajchandra tells her that he has already arranged a teacher for her.
 
 On the other hand, Rani Rashmoni’s daughter Padma is not happy to hear that her sister would get educated. Padma blames that her husband never visits her since she is educated. Rani Rashmoni tries to explain that she isn’t right. She also tells that women should get educated.
 
 Rani Rashmoni took utmost care of Rajchandra’s grandmother. She wants to go for the pilgrimage. Rani Rashmoni informs Rajchandra about her wish.
 
 Rajchandra and Rani Rashmoni spend candid moments with their daughters. The children arrange marriage ceremony for their dolls. Rajchandra observes the children discussing dowry.
 
 Rani Rashmoni and Rajchandra talk about their daughter’s marriage. He decides that all of his sons-in-law will be staying at their household.
 
