
For me,   is all about going to church in the morning, followed by a sumptuous meal, which primarily consists of biryani. However, this year, there will be a restriction with respect to food as I am strictly following my diet regime. The plan has been organised in such a way that my ‘cheat days’ come only after my concert in Canada which will happen towards April end. Perhaps, this is my first Easter for which I won’t be eating as much as I wish. During childhood, I remember having a huge fascination for Easter eggs. The bakeries used to open as early as 6am and I used to get curious about what’s inside the eggs. Though my parents ask me to wait till breakfast, I used to break the egg much before to know what’s inside it. Now, it is exciting to see my children doing the same.
 —  , music composer
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 Till 2004, I was a drunkard, smoker and drenched in all worldly sins. I was diagnosed with abdominal TB and was almost at the mouth of death. But I was touched by the God. I became born again, left behind all my bad habits and that was on an Easter Day. For every Easter, we go to one of the orphanages or a home for the elderly and have lunch with them. 
 — Prabu Solomon, director
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 Easter is surely one of the most exciting days of the year for us! I love the family get together during Easter. Something I gave up for Lenten season this year was sugar, so I will surely be indulging in some sweet treats. Probably, some roast chicken with some veggies as well! I am just excited about all the sugar. Surely I have to drop in for ice cream at my favourite place in Chennai — Amadora.
 —  , squash player
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 We usually go to church the previous night and relish the cakes after we come back. On Easter day, family lunch is something we look forward to, though celebrations are more for us on Christmas. Easter is more of a spiritual festival compared to Christmas. When it comes to memories, Easter bunny and eggs are things that I associate the festival with. This time, I have bought it for my wife and children. The occasion, for me, is all about cleansing, peace and harmony. We always have turkey for Christmas season, but for Easter this time, I am not sure about it. My wife is a home baker — this time we will have several baked goods to gorge on.
 —  , dance choreographer
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Definitely, Easter is going to be at home with family. That’s the only day I get to spend time with family. Because I am busy during Xmas and New Year as all my restaurants are full then. Easter falls on a Sunday and I ensure that I take a break to spend quality time with family. I go to church in the morning and then lunch at home for Easter. I hardly eat at home. Because I have to eat at my restaurants and bars to ensure the quality and taste of food served there. So, when I eat at home, the good thing is that both the lovely ladies at home — my wife and mom — fight to cook for me (laughs). While my mom makes excellent mutton biryani, wife bakes really well. So, both the main course and dessert are taken 
 care of.
 — Arasu Dennis, restaurateur
 
 
 
  
 
 
 My church is in Kalpakkam and I go there for Easter. In fact, I attend the worship every week there. For the worship there, my brother and I play drums and keys respectively. On the day of Easter, we’ve the worship service from 4am to 6am. Even the previous night none of us sleep because that’s when we catch up with friends and others in the family. After the worship service we come back home and what’s special is Easter lunch. And for both Christmas and Easter, my father cooks mutton biryani and some chicken side dishes. He’s the biryani specialist in the family. Of course, he cooks with mummy’s help (chuckles). And till they finish preparing the lunch they keep sending things from the kitchen for us to munch on. And sometimes, I invite my non-Christian friends who like to watch the Easter worship and specially for the lunch.
 —  , 
 music composer
 
