THANE: Actor Nawazuddin Siddiqui’s lawyer had got the phone call records of Siddique’s wife from people involved in the illegal procurement of call data records (CDR) for Rs 50,000, said the crime branch which is probing the case.

 It had asked the actor on Thursday to present himself for further investigation, but he did not, a crime branch officer said.   had earlier reported that Bollywood celebrities were linked to the case and will be summoned for questioning.
 
 The police claimed that the presence of media personnel had deterred   from appearing before them. They also refused to give the name of the actor’s wife.
 
 At this moment, Siddique, a known face since his success in films like ‘The Lunchbox’ and ‘Gangs of Wasseypur’, is married to Anjali and has two children.
 
 During the probe into the CDR racket, the police claim that they found conversations in which the lawyer Rizwan Siddique seeks the CDR of the actor’s wife in phones confiscated from the accused—Prashant Palekar, 49, Jigar Makwana, 35, and  , 25. The trio obtained the records from their sources last year and handed it over, said Abhishek Trimukhe, DCP (crime).
 
 The three arrested accused had confirmed it during interrogation and the cops had summoned the actor to verify the version. “It looks like the advocate might have sought the CDR possibly due to some dispute. It will be clear only after the actor’s statement is recorded,” said the officer, adding: “We will once again summon them to record their statements.”
 
 Repeated attempts to contact advocate Rizwan Siddique proved futile as his cellphone was switched off and he did not respond to text messages. The actor’s manager said he could not comment as he had just heard the news. Nawazuddin’s brother too did not respond.
 
 Well-known private detective Rajani Pandit, who has high profile clients including politicians, celebrities and businessmen, has been arrested in the case. The sessions court reserved the bail order till next Monday.
 
