PUNE: Chief minister Devendra   has ruled out allocation of funds in the state   for the proposed   at  .

 Asked whether funds will be provided in the state budget for the Purandar airport, Fadnavis in a text message replied: “It is not required.” 
 
 Senior officials of the   (MADC), which is developing the airport, told TOI that a detailed proposal on the financial aspect of the proposed airport, which include expected funds required for land acquisition, has been sent to the state government and its approval is being awaited.
 
 “We have not mentioned the compensation amount as it is expected to be different for each landowner depending on the package he/she chooses. Once the proposal is cleared by the local district administration, we will be able to discuss the amount,” an MADC official said.
 
 The foundation stone for the Navi Mumbai international airport was laid by Prime Minister   and the first flight is set to take off by 2019.
 
 The tweet from Fadnavis’ office said, “First flight from Navi Mumbai International Airport to take off by December 2019. We are also building missing lines on Mumbai-Pune expressway. We have received all permission for the new Purandar Airport in Pune and also working on extension of existing Pune airport.”
 
 “Until now, we have received approvals from the Airports Authority of India (AAI), the aviation ministry and defence ministry. We are awaiting clearance from the steering committee of the Union government. Techno economic feasibility study is being carried out. It includes all forms of clearances, including a detailed project report , master plan for the project and environmental clearance, among others,” an official said.
 
 As far as funding is concerned, an initial funding of Rs 100 crore is being used. “The ‘Magnetic Maharashtra’ summit is underway and Fadnavis will undertake a review of the Purandar airport after February 23,” the official pointed out.
 
 In the last budget, the state government had not allocated funds for the project. Fadnavis had then told TOI that funds for land acquisition can be made available to MADC in the state’s supplementary budget once the acquisition component is finalised. “Pune airport is an MADC project, and the government allocates money for it. MADC will start work on the airport project by utilising its reserves and the government will provide grants later,” Fadnavis had said.
 
 
