JAIPUR: Congress state president   attacked the state government for reallocating limestone mines, terminated after the multi-crore mining scam was exposed.

 While interacting with the media during his Jodhpur visit on Sunday, Pilot alleged that the   government in the state had deliberately presented a weak defense to reallocate these mines.
 
 In October 2015, the state government had cancelled all the 653 letters of intent (LOIs) after the mining scam was discovered in September 2015. The mining operators had moved high court against the order and the court had held as invalid the cancellation of LOIs. “The BJP government in the state deliberately came up with a weak defense and provided no documents to substantiate the decision to terminate the leases for limestone mining. Even after losing the case, they did not go for an appeal. This shows that all the moves were part of a well thought out plan to find a way through the backdoor to reallocate those mines,” said Pilot.
 
 “The entire handling of mining scam by the state government is a farce. On the grounds that not allocating the mines would amount to contempt of court, the government did the same recently. It has already reinstated a senior bureaucrat, an accused in the scam. This only goes on to show that nothing was wrong and nobody can be held accountable or guilty,” said Pilot.
 
 Had the BJP government presented proper facts to the court, the investigation of the mining scam would have been handed over to CBI, he said.
 
 “Claiming that the matter is being looked into by the Lokayukta, the state government did not provide all the details to the court,” he alleged. He lashed out at the state government for promoting IAS officer Ashok Singhvi, an accused in the case, to the level of ACS despite the final investigation report pending against him.
 
 After auctioning a cement mine block, the state had earned a revenue of Rs 6,000 crore, Pilot claimed. If the government adopts the auctioning of mine method, the revenue loss to the state exchequer can be prevented.
 
 
