KOLKATA: State transport department officials are probably not aware that the first rake for the   is on its way to Kolkata. But red tape had held up the movement of the six trailers carrying the   on Wednesday, after they entered Bengal near  , said   (KMRCL) and BEML Ltd officials.

 Officials of the two agencies from here are now in Kharagpur to resolve the dispute.
 
 
 “The coaches would have reached Kolkata on Wednesday night itself had the Regional Transport Office (RTO) authorities not held them back. By the time we received information, they had already been held up for two-three hours. RTO officials seem unaware that movement of such consignments don’t require formalities and paperwork, like that for normal loads. This is a transfer between two government agencies. Such huge trailers can’t move on highways during the day. Now, time at night has also been wasted,” a KMRCL official said.
 
 The six high-end coaches were lifted on the trailers at BEML’s factory in Bengaluru on March 31. The 2,000-odd km journey to Kolkata was to be completed in about 20 days. While BEML had said it would take a fortnight, KMRCL insisted on a more conservative estimate of 20 days, given the size of the 106-wheel trailers and hiccups, like the one faced at Kharagpur. “Ideally, we would have wanted the trailers to arrive in Kolkata on Tuesday night as Kharagpur is barely 140 km away and the trailers could have covered that in four-five hours. This could not happen first, due to the thundersquall. Now, due to this bureaucracy, we have wasted another day,” a KMRCL official said. “We have to take care none of the coaches is damaged in transit.”
 
 KMRCL is keenly waiting for the rake, which is unlike anything the city has seen. The BEML-built trains not only have advanced features for better passenger comfort, they are also more technologically advanced than the ones that ply in Kolkata. KMRCL wants the first rake to reach Kolkata at the earliest so that trials can be held and the Commissioner of Railway Safety gives the clearance before services are launched between Salt Lake Sector-V and Salt Lake Stadium by the Pujas. Originally, KMRCL had planned to commission Phase-I by June this year. But a delayed delivery of some vital components from Europe pushed the schedule back.
 
 “BEML has been sending Metro rakes to Delhi by road minus any problem. This is the first rake for KMRCL and at least five more will follow. Unlike Metro Railway rakes, these can’t be transported by rail. Several more rakes will arrive by road from BEML in the next three years. We can only hope for hassle-free transportation,” a KMRCL official said.
 
