MANALI: Unexpected summer snowfall has covered the mountains of upper Himachal with thick white sheet. The snowfall coupled with high velocity winds has again blocked Manali-Keylong highway at   Pass.

 Snowfall in most parts of Lahaul valley too has surprised the farmers with   covering the peas farms. The pass has received nearly 20cm fresh snow. The blizzards on the pass flew snow to the corners and covered highway under a layer of snow. The areas above Gulaba wore a white mantle too. High peaks of state received snow and lower parts received rain. Some parts of the state, including  , were lashed with hailstorm. 
 
 Being peak summer tourist season in Himachal, the administration in on alert and tourists were not being allowed to go beyond Gulaba during snowfall.
 
 Manali sub-divisional magistrate Raman Gharsangi said, “Tourists were allowed to go beyond Gulaba when weather turned favourable. We are well prepared for any eventuality. We had stationed ambulance to deal with emergency situation. The rescue post at Marhi did not allow anybody to go towards Rohtang,” he said.
 
 Keylong, which recorded night temperature of 2.9 degrees Celsius, has received 5cm snow. Marhi, 35km from Manali, is also covered with fresh snow. Manali’s night temperature was recorded at 5.8 degrees celcius and it was 11.2 degrees C in Shimla. 
 
 Not taking any risk, the   (HRTC) buses plying on different routes across Rohtang returned back after facing thick layer of snow deposited on the road.
 
 Kullu deputy commissioner Yunus said there has been forecast of rain and storm from May 7 to 11. “People are advised to stay alert and not go towards high peaks and mountain passes. Tourists should also take precaution and should not take risk for the want of snow. Those engaged in trekking should keep an eye on weather conditions. In case of emergency, immediately dial district disaster management authority’s toll free number 1077,” he said.
 
 Border Roads Organization (BRO) officials said the highway at Rohtang has again buried under 20 to 30cm of snow. “If snowfall stops in night time, we shall restore traffic on Tuesday. The post winter snowfall has blocked the highway 4-5 times this season,” an official said.
 
 
