Canada has become one of the top destinations for the students who need a graduate or master’s degree in business studies, and more Indians have joined this group.

 Where only 3% of Indian candidates preferred to study MBA in Canada in 2009, the share has risen to 8% in 2016. About 9% of the Indian candidates for non-MBA management courses are now look to Canada, up from 4% in 2009, according to information. Canada’s chief attraction is its being 30-to-40% cheaper than the US, even at the level of elite universities and colleges. Besides, US President Donald Trump’s stance on immigration and concerns over racist incidents are taking the shine off the US campuses.
 
 Niharika Mittal, who is pursuing her postgraduate degree at Toronto’s McMaster University, said: “A lot of Indian students are choosing Canada because they value the opportunity to be able to work for two-to-three years after completing their post-secondary education. Unlike the US and Britain, Canada sees international students as a valuable addition to its ageing workforce.”
 
 Hope from Trudeau visit
 
 Ahead of Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s visit to India in February, both sides look for a breakthrough in long-pending negotiations for a free-trade agreement (FTA). India will likely create more jobs for its teeming information technology professionals by facilitating easier work visa under this deal with Canada. 
 
 Senior foreign education consultant Harpeet Kaur said: “The count of Indian students in Canadian B-Schools will continue to do rise like it has over the years. This year, we have received a maximum number of student applications for Canada. From 3,000-to-4,000 last year, the count has increased to between 8,000 and 9,000, which is more than double. Down the years, the surge will only be greater.”
 
 Foreign education consultant Punita Vadhera says: “In terms of the education system, I’ll put Canada on a par with the US and the UK. The importance of education to Canada is reflected in the amount it gives to its universities and colleges, and the kind of facilities they have built with this money.”
 
 H-1B in doubt
 
 Optional practical training (OPT), a programme that allows Indian students to remain in the US after finishing their education, has run into difficulties since the H-1B work visa has come under a cloud. Employers in Canada, on the other hand, are wooing the Indians who are studying STEM (science, technology, engineering, abd mathematics) subjects in Canadian institutes. Canada’s express entry system creates a pathway for skilled Indians to get fast-track permanent resident status and then citizenship. For Indian students with degrees from Canadian institutes, the road to PR is even faster under the Canadian Experience Class.
 
 New choice
 
 Gaurav, a postgraduate in business management from Canada, says: “In Canada, India is either first- or second-largest international student market along with China. Some students who considered only the US or the UK B-schools traditionally now consider Canada, the trained and experienced teachers of which offer the Indian students a great learning experience and international-standard education.
 
 5 reasons to study in Canada
 
 1. A large number of collaborative programmes that offer hands-on learning combined with theoretical approach 
 
 2. International students who have graduated from Canadian institutes can apply for permanent residency visa without moving out of the country
 
 3. More than 90% of the graduates from Canadian institutes get jobs in their field of study within six months of getting the degree
 
 4. Studies at Canada’s top universities cost about half of equally reputable programmes at the private universities in neighbouring US
 
 5. International students can work while they study
 
 Work permit for students
 
 Students who do not have study permit are ineligible to work
 
 If you hold a study permit, you can work on campus for your institute, if it is funded publicly and grants degrees. No separate work permit is required
 
 Full-time students may also be eligible to work off-campus for any employer. These permits allow you to work up to 20 hours a week during the term and full-time during holidays, usually
 
 
