LUDHIANA: The education department has found six employees, including a retired staffer, guilty of fund embezzlement to the tune of Rs 7.18 lakh.

 Having already written to the Jagraon police to file an FIR, the department has terminated the services of an education volunteer and suspended four others with immediate effect.
 
 As per the inquiry report of education department, a class IV employee was the mastermind behind the embezzlement. The accused have been identified as retired block primary education officer (BPEO) Jaswant Kaur, volunteer Jaspal Kaur, elementary teacher Manpreet Singh, clerk  , present BPEO Sidhwan Bet-1   and peon   (the mastermind).
 
 The accused committed the fraud between March to October 2016, sources said.
 
 According to the inquiry report (a copy of which is available with TOI), clerk Mandeep Singh used to prepare bills, ETT Manpreet Singh used to send bill online for approval and after sanction class IV employee Inderjeet Singh used to transfer the funds in an account which was in the name of volunteer Jaspal Kaur’s father. Once the money was transferred in that account, Jaspal Kaur used to withdraw the cash and hand it over to Inderjeet. Both BPEOs used to sign the bills for clearance.
 
 An inquiry was marked after the matter came into the notice of local education department. Later the   conducted an inquiry and in the end the director public instructions (elementary) official conducted inquiry which found all six guilty of embezzling funds worth Rs 7.18 lakh.
 
 Following the inquiry report, the DPI (elementary) on April 26 ordered the district education officer (elementary) to get an FIR lodged against the accused. (A copy of order is with TOI).
 
 Meanwhile, the department terminated the services of volunteer Jaspal Kaur and suspended four others.
 
 District education officer  , who is officiating in-charge of DEO (elementary), said, “The department wrote to Jagraon police to register a case on Friday. Meanwhile, four staffers have been suspended.”
 
 SSP (Jagraon)   said the police are yet to receive the copy recommending an FIR by the education department.
 
