LUCKNOW: In a chilling reminder of the murder of a class II student in a   last year, a   in his   in Lucknow on Tuesday. The seven-year-old, who was allegedly attacked by a senior girl student, is battling for life at the   (KGMU) here. In his statement to the police late on Wednesday evening, the boy said the girl, while beating him, said she was doing so to get the school to close early.

 The incident happened at Brightland Inter College school in Triveninagar here on Tuesday but came to light only after the KGMU authorities revealed about it to the media. Initially, the school had informed the boy’s parents that he had met with an accident.
 
 READ ALSO: 
 
 
  
  
 The school officials informed the police in writing only after reporters reached the trauma centre. The district inspector of schools has issued a showcause notice to the school for not informing the police about the incident in time. The police are now questioning an 12-year-old class VI girl student of the same school after she was identified by the victim with the help of a photograph.
 
 UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath will visit KGMU trauma center and meet the boy who was injured in the Bright Land Inter College on Wednesday.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 The victim, Hrithik Sharma, was stabbed in the chest and abdomen and locked inside the toilet by the girl. His cries were heard by teacher Amit Singh Chauhan, the designated discipline head, who found in a pool of blood and his mouth stuffed with a cloth. He was rushed to a private hospital, where doctors referred him to KGMU.
 
 In his statement to the police on Wednesday morning, Hrithik said, “A didi with boy-cut hair called me, saying a teacher had asked for me. She took me to the bathroom and slapped me. Then she attacked me with a sharp object.” During the second round of questioning in the evening, he told police, “When I asked didi why she was beating me, she said: I want the school to declare an early closure today.”
 
 READ ALSO: 
 
 
 Senior sub-inspector of Aliganj police station Nepal Singh said, “The bathroom is located on the second floor and is partitioned. One section is used by staffers and the other by children.” There is only one entry and exit point which has been sealed now, he added.
 
 As the news spread, parents who had come to pick their children raised slogans against the school for concealing the incident.
 
 
 
 The school’s directorcum-principal Reena Manas said, “We are supporting the police in investigation and checking CCTV footage.” She, however, kept mum over media queries on a day’s delay in informing police. Lucknow SSP Deepak Kumar said an FIR against an unidentified person has been filed for inflicting injuries with weapons and causing grievous wounds.
 
 READ ALSO: 
  
 
 ASP (Aliganj) Meenakshi Katyayan said that a woman constable will interrogate the girl accused in the case. She also said that the girl had tried to slash her wrist once and had been showing unpleasant behaviour in the classroom.
 
 
