MANALI: As the strike by workers of   tunnel entered sixth day on Monday, the workers threatened to resort to hunger strike if their demands were not met with on Tuesday. 

 Over 500 workers engaged in different works at its two portals have been on indefinite strike since March 27, 2018 and accused the project officials of ignoring labour laws.
 
 The   management on Monday called a meeting with the workers’ union, but the workers alleged that when eight members of the negotiating committee were going to meet the officials, security guards stopped them and allowed only five to attend the meeting. Despite requests, they were not allowed to meet officials and eventually returned without meeting the officials, workers alleged.
 
 Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh, Rohtang Tunnel Project, president  , said they have been meeting officials but this was the first time that they said only five members were asked to meet. “They are harassing us. The project manager was not even present in the meeting. Only two officials were there. We have already discussed our issues with them and they failed to resolve them. There was no use of this meeting even if all of us were allowed. We want to meet the top officials,” he said.
 
 Dharmender added that the management had called police at the work site on Monday and the workers were asked not to resort to any illegal activity. “We had already made it clear that legal protest was our right. We have been called again for a meeting on Tuesday. If our demands are not met, the protest will continue and we may move to Manali and resort to hunger strike,” he added.
 
 Project manager   said he was out of station and would meet the workers on Tuesday. “I will talk to them. They will definitely end the strike,” he said.
 
 The strike has has hit the supply lines too. Dozens of trucks carrying cement and other goods have queued up at  , near south portal of the tunnel, for six days. The truckers are waiting for strike to end so that they could unload the trucks and return home.
 
 The workers have nearly 15 demands including applying labour law and providing them with better transport, meal, medical, sitting and lodging facilities.
 
 
