BENGALURU: The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has started rejuvenating   in HSR Layout at a cost of Rs 5 crore. But residents are still apprehensive about the stench.

 They maintain that the lake-rejuvenation drive won’t help unless steps are taken to remove the nearly 7,000 tonnes of refuse-derived fuel (RDF) dumped by the Karnataka Compost Development Corporation ( ) plant within the lake’s buffer zone.   is a combustible material derived from processing garbage and could lead to a fire outbreak.
 
 “Even if the lake is developed, why would anybody want to walk around if thousands of tonnes of RDF are right beside it. The stink is terrible and is affecting everybody within a 2km radius. The lake and the plant can’t co-exist,” said Lalithamba B V of KHHSP (Kudlu, Hosapalya, HSR Layout, Somasundarapalya and  ) residents’ welfare association.
 
 Another KHHSP member, Kamesh Rastogi, felt there is no point in reviving the waterbody unless the RDF is cleared: “KCDC has encroached upon four acres of the lakebed, where they have dumped the RDF. This is a clear violation of the NGT guidelines. Forget transporting RDF, they’ve only been adding to the piles every day.”
 
 Jagannath Rao, deputy conservator of forests (lakes), says the rejuvenation process started in March and may take a year to complete. “We have got a Rs 4-crore grant from the state government and Rs 1 crore from BBMP. We will first clear the debris and divert sewage entering the lake. As far as RDF is concerned, we don’t have a big enough budget to clear it ourselves. We will build a concrete wall and conduct geotextile treatment to ensure the leachate does not enter the lake,” he said.
 
 Since January, a vendor from   started transporting the RDF elsewhere. However, Veerabhadra Swamy, BBMP joint commissioner ( ) and managing director of the plant, said this stopped within two weeks as the vendor incurred several losses.
 
 “Currently, all officials are on election duty and very busy. We are in talks with some people who have shown interest in clearing the RDF,” he added.
 
