KOLHAPUR: A good intention to help someone in distress cost a 46-year-old mango trader from Sindhudurg district Rs 8 lakh on the   road on Tuesday night.

 The businessman, Dattatraya Shamsundar  , was not only robbed of his money but also thrashed by four youths who got into his car by claiming that one of them was sick and needed to be taken to hospital.
 
 According to Gaganbawada police, Patankar, a resident of Dabholi Patthar in Devgada taluka came to   and sold mangoes on Monday. He took advance money for next supply from the traders and left for home in his car on Tuesday morning. 
 
 The trader saw a man desperately waving at him and seeking a lift. When he stopped the car, the man told him that his friend was ill and that he had to be taken to hospital immediately. An unsuspecting Patankar immediately agreed to oblige without even giving second thoughts.
 
 Four men, aged 25 to 30 years, one of them feigning illness, quickly got into Patankar’s car. After covering some distance, they forced the victim to stop the car, threatened him with a knife and thrashed him before grabbing the bag containing Rs 8 lakh. They soon disappeared from the spot.
 
 A shocked Patankar later called the police and informed them about the incident. 
 
 “As soon as we got information about the incident, we reached the spot with a dog squad. The dog showed only the direction in which the criminals moved but stopped at one point. We suspect that they must have used a vehicle to run away from the spot,” said a police officer attached with the Gaganbawada police station.
 
 The officer said that a nakabandi was also conducted as part of the operation to search for the culprits but in vain. 
 
 "We are investigation the case in detail. The culprits must be aware about the activities of Patankar and probably knew that he was returning home with cash,” he said. 
 
 “We are gathering information about the people who know about Patkankar’s daily routine and are trying to get clues from them. We hope to arrest the criminals soon,” added the officer.
 
 
