NEW YORK: Your “idiot box” has been getting smarter for some years now. Online access and gaming have changed the way television is consumed, with more options on what, when and how you interact with content. The changes aren’t stopping there. As the internet of things (IoT) evolves, the next-generation TVs are going from smart to intelligent — enabling you to do more with their displays and controlling other gadgets and appliances.

 Some of these features were on display at Samsung’s ‘First Look’ event in New York this month, where the company unveiled its 2018 television range with more additions to its premium QLED TV line-up launched last year.
 
 For the QLED range,   has developed a ‘Smart-Things’ app through which the TV connects with other compatible smart devices and appliances — from mobiles, washing machines and refrigerators to CCTV cameras in the house. So, for instance, you can get to see who is at the door on the TV screen or turn on a camera in the fridge while driving home to see what needs to be bought.
 
 The TVs respond to voice commands through Samsung’s   voice assistant, enabling you to flip channels, search or even ask questions about the weather.
 
 Another major feature unveiled in the QLED line-up was the “ambient mode” in which the TV blends in with the surroundings. When not in use — which Samsung says is 80% of the day on average for televisions — the screen can be made to assume the pattern of the wall it is hung from, or display weather and news updates. Alternatively, the consumer can choose to display iconic artwork or family photos. The QLED TVs use Samsung’s quantum dot technology, the company’s answer to LG’s OLED (organic LED) range. The sets will be launched in India in a couple of months, the company said. Prices have not been announced yet.
 
 A little further away from the launch is another Samsung offering that was the big talking point at the New York event. ‘The Wall' is a mammoth 146-inch modular LED TV, designed to fill up an entire wall, that can be installed in several shapes and sizes.
 
 While Samsung moves in the direction of making TVs smart-home hubs and experiments with modular LED technology that allows installation in various proportions,   recently unveiled a prototype TV that can be rolled down like a wrapping paper. Other makers, such as Sony, have been working on short-throw projectors that will give viewers the choice of endless sizes.
 
 (The writer was in New York at the invitation of Samsung) 
 
