BENGALURU:   Hadapad, 29,   gave birth to triplets, has become the face of a campaign by the   (WHO) to promote Kangaroo Mother Care ( ) for saving premature babies with low birthweight. 

  On October 25, 2016, Renuka, from Koppal in north Karnataka, delivered three baby girls weighing 1,200 grams, 1,300 grams and 1,500 grams. Funded by the Bill &   Foundation, WHO is working in three districts of India and 14 regions of Ethiopia to scale up KMC to prevent infant mortality rate, especially among babies with low birthweight (less than 2,500 grams). 
 
 WHO recommends KMC, which is essentially continuous skin-to-skin contact between mothers and low-birthweight or premature babies, and exclusive breastfeeding as soon as they are born. 
 
 In India, low birthweight babies make for 27% of live births. WHO chose three districts from as many states — Karnataka, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh — for the project since 2016, considering their vulnerability to infant mortality. In Karnataka, the project has been supported by St John’s Medical College Hospital and Karnataka Health Promotion Trust (KHPT) is implementing the project. The Bengaluru hospital and   are working closely with doctors of both private and government hospitals in Koppal district.
 
 Speaking to TOI, a senior officer from KHPT recalled the day Renuka had a normal delivery in Koppal Government Hospital. “Renuka has two daughters and the family was hoping for a baby boy. Seeing the triplets, the family was a bit upset, but they were counselled. Renuka’s husband Somappa was supportive when we introduced them to Kangaroo Mother Care to save the babies, who were put in special newborn care unit (SNCU). She was in the hospital for 28 days,” said the officer.
 
 The family was monitored even after Renuka was discharged. In November 2017, her case was presented at a WHO conference by Dr Rajani M, former deputy director, child health, health family welfare department. 
 
 “KMC is a low-resource, evidence-based, high-impact, standardized intervention, which, like breast feeding, should be a part of routine newborn care. It can prevent half of all the deaths among newborns weighing less than 2,000 grams. The skill of providing KMC must be learnt by all healthcare providers, as it has got a social impact,” said Dr Rajani.
 
 Dr Suman Rao, head of neonatology at St. John’s Medcial College Hospital, travels to Koppal once a month to create awareness about KMC.
 
 “This was the first time in my 18 years of experience that I saw a mother giving KMC to triplets at once. We suggest KMC for the first 28 days of a baby’s life and it can be increased depending on the child’s growth. Ideally, it should be given for 24 hours, but that’s tough for the mother in case of multiple gestations. The father, the mother’s sister and the grandmother can also provide skin-to-skin protection. It not only helps in temperature care, but also in the baby’s neuro development,” said Dr Rao.
 
 Through Unicef funds, the district administration has been, since October 2016, giving Rs 4,000 a month to Renuka for the babies’ nutritional needs. 
 
 
