NAGPUR: If popular tigresses Maya, Chhoti Tara and Sonam are the face of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR), Madhuri, which delivered her fifth litter last month, is no less than the ‘Empress’ of the buffer zone. The tigress has delivered 19 cubs since 2010.

  officials and wildlife buffs are thrilled over Madhuri delivering four cubs in   area, outside Mohurli, in the buffer zone. The big cat has been sighted intermittently with four 1.5-month-old cubs over the last month by tourists.
 
 As per tiger experts, a female can rear some 6-8 litters over her 10-12 year lifespan. But 9-year-old Madhuri may deliver two more litters. She is nothing less than a celebrity supermom like the Collarwali of Madhya Pradesh side of  , which delivered 26 cubs through seven litters between 2008 and 2017.
 
 Mukul Trivedi, chief conservator of forests (CCF) and field director of TATR, confirmed the development. “It only goes to show that the core area of Tadoba alone is not the breeding ground for tigers but also the buffer zone, where the habitat is extremely good,” said Trivedi.
 
 TATR deputy director (buffer)   said, “Due to better monitoring and protection, tigers are feeling safe in buffer. There is good prey base in Agarzari and habitat needed for the tigers is conducive.”
 
 Narwane added one of the reasons for better coexistence is also effective implementation of Dr Shayamaprasad Mukherjee Jan Van Yojana in the buffer zone.
 
 Even Wildlife Institute of India (WII) scientist Bilal Habib admits that Tadoba tiger population has reached a saturation point, but is very dynamic. If numbers of last four years are considered, they are trending between 50 and 55 tigers. Similarly, in buffer, the number has gone up.
 
 “Long-term monitoring of this population will help understand tiger dynamics in a much better way,” Habib adds.
 
 A recall of Madhuri’s litters shows that the tigress had delivered her first litter of three cubs in 2010 at Yenbodi in Mohurli. The first litter did not survive to adulthood, as all cubs were killed by Waghdoh male (T38), who defeated their father Yeda Anna (Broken Tail).
 
 Madhuri’s second litter, of four cubs, in 2011 was sired by Waghdoh male. This litter was popularly known as the Telia sisters — Sonam, Lara, Geeta and Mona — made famous by a documentary on their growing up, telecast by a wildlife channel. After 2011, Madhuri was ousted by her daughter Sonam (T30) and moved to the buffer. Now, Sonam has taken over Telia lake area and sired two litters — one in 2015 having three cubs and another in 2017 with four cubs.
 
 After being pushed in the buffer, Madhuri delivered four cubs in 2014 at Mohurli, sired by Wagdoh male (T38). Her fourth litter of four cubs came in 2016. This litter was sired by Khali (T55), who had pushed out Waghdoh. Now, Madhuri has again delivered four cubs sired by Khali. Madhuri’s cubs have been documented by TATR. However, it is a big question mark where these tigers will go after attaining adulthood.
 
 
