NAGPUR: "Basketball in India is refreshing," feels former   star   on his maiden India sojourn.

 The former NBA shooting guard, who retired last year after spending 12 long years in the World's best basketball league of the  , is currently in India as part of the NBA's efforts to promote basketball.
 
 In an exclusive with TOI, Martin who played for five NBA teams -  ,  , Oklahoma City Thunder, Minnesota Timberwolves and the San Antonio Spurs-feels India is like home away from home.
 
 "The game here has a lot of potential to tap. With NBA being involved, I could see that kids and coaches are excited about basketball. My four days here reminds me of China and what Yao Ming did to basketball there. Over the last few years, I feel NBA in India is doing what it did in China - giving them their biggest sporting figures."
 
  
 
 Martin compared cricket in India to basketball in the US. "Kids in US are just more familiar with basketball and something that they are working hard to get into learning game. There are lot of opportunities for them in US. It's the same case that kids in India experience it with cricket," he said.
 
 He was all praise for the former national coach  , who has taken the role as a senior director basketball operations for NBA-India and is looking after all the grassroots initiative of the sport.
 
 While Scott will lead all the grassroots initiatives of the NBA in India, Martin-as a rookie-had an opportunity to play under the former India coach, who was instrumental in leading the team to a historic win over China.
 
 "When I was 17 years old, I got to meet Scott. He is an amazing person and is a great basketball mind. Your country should be very proud to have somebody like Scott. You should know that you are in good hands with Scott at the helm of affairs as he can do the best to get everything out of kids in a positive way," he said.
 
 Martin praised Scott's all round skills. "I have experienced it all under him when I was a boy. Scott is a kind of jack of all trades when it comes to basketball aspect of life. He can handle young kids and old men alike and is comfortable coaching to anyone of them," he added.
 
 The 34-year-old shooting guard said his journey is somewhat similar to many small town Indian players. "I feel to make it to the NBA is a big accomplishment in itself. I was never supposed to be in the NBA. Somebody like me coming from a small town in Ohio, up against all odds, where one or two people get drafted in four years. Once I came to NBA, I had to be an influence that every kid in our town is looking up to. I am very encouraged with what I have seen in India. The more you can have kids being aspired, the brighter the future for India in the NBA," the 34-year-old said.
 
 Martin took to basketball after watching legendary Michael Jordan on TV and believes that it takes "that one guy" who can give a much-needed spur for basketball in India. Martin, who played in the league from 2004-2016, feels India will soon find its very own basketball icon.
 
 "For me, it was watching Jordan on TV. The likes of Larry Bird and Magic Johnson for my generation was a joy to watch. In the US, it started with somebody like Bill Russell all the way back. Then with my generation growing up, it was Jordan and now it's LeBron James and Steph Curry. The way LeBron is looking now, I think he can play till he turns 45. He is a great icon for the sport. He can also lead Cavs to another title," said Martin.
 
 
