JAIPUR/JODHPUR: A day after   president Rahul Gandhi led a midnight march to India Gate in New Delhi to protest against the Kathua and Unnao minor rape cases, the party's district units took out candlelight marches across the state demanding justice for the victims on Friday. 

 The Congress president had asked party cadres to organise protests in support of protection of women all over the country. Party general secretary (organisation)   tweeted about it Friday evening. In Jaipur, the protest march was held at Amar Jawan Jyoti near SMS Stadium. Leader of opposition Rameshwar Dudi, AICC general secretary Mohan Prakash, Congress city president Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, PCC vice-president Archana Sharma and former mayor Jyoti Khandelwal were among those who participated along with the party workers.
 
 Mohan Prakash said the Prime Minister should speak up on the incidents that have enraged the entire nation. Khachariyawas said, "BJP talks of ' ' (save daughters) but its own leaders are involved in rapes or are defending the rapists. Centre and state   governments should take strict action against the criminals, irrespective of their castes and religions."
 
 A 17-year-old girl was allegedly raped by BJP MLA from Unnao's Bangarmau constituency Kuldeep Singh Senger last year in Uttar Pradesh. The incident came to light when the girl attempted to immolate herself outside Chief Minister  's residence in Lucknow last Sunday. Similarly, in Jammu and Kashmir, an eight-year-old girl disappeared from near her home in a village near Kathua on January 10. The chargesheet in the case revealed chilling details about how she was allegedly kidnapped, drugged, raped inside a place of worship before being killed.
 
 Public anger over both the rape cases was witnessed in Jodhpur too. A series of protests were held in the city on Friday to mark the protest against these incidents. The protestors held candle march demanding harshest punishments for the criminals. The first march was organized by the Jodhana Muslim Jagruk Manch, which termed the incidents as shameful and sought befitting punishment for the rapists.
 
 Congress and AAP parties also organized candle-marches in protest of these heinous incidents at city's Jalori Gate circle. The party workers termed the incidents as inhuman and a blot on humanity. Congress spokesperson Ajay Trivedi said crimes against women under the BJP rule have soared and the criminals were being shielded by the BJP leaders. AAP spokesperson Jabbar Singh said that politicising the rapes was awful and called for the need to protest the incidents beyond any political ideology or faith.
 
 
