Surat: In the 200 years of its existence in India, the now minuscule Jewish community has never faced anti-Semitism. Holding on to their own identity, the Jews in India have Christian neighbours, Hindu colleagues and Muslim caretakers.

 They celebrate with equal zest Durga puja, Diwali, Rosh Hashanah and Christmas. Their synagogues here often resound with incantations in Hebrew, echoing recitation from Talmud and Torah.
 
 While our superstars and celebrities sport star of David tattoos, our gourmands relish delicatessen from kosher cuisine, prime areas in metros such as Mumbai and Kolkata are till date known after icons such as Sassoon and Ezra.
 
 It was in Surat the Baghdadi Jews first stepped their foot on when they arrived in India. A prosperous merchant community from Aleppo, their descendants later migrated to Kolkata (formerly Calcutta). Being one of the important trading centres of Asia, Surat was the land of opportunities for Jewish merchants, who settled here motivated by the great economic advantages, sailing in from Europe and the Ottoman Empire . 
 
 “The Arabic Jews or Baghdadis in Surat carried out their activities on a very large scale in their capacity as ‘Latty Merchants’ under English protection. Their main export market was the Persian Gulf, Muscat, Mocca and many other Asiatic trade centres. The colony was founded under the leadership of Shalom Obadiah-ha-Cohen of Aleppo. Surat had at least 95 Jewish merchants. The manifesto of ‘Treasures and Goods Laden in Basra to Surat in 1798’ gives a remarkable and rare documents for individual Jewish merchants in Surat,” said curator at History Museum, Gandhinagar, Dr Indubala Nahakpam, who has prepared a paper on ‘The Baghdadi Jews of Surat.’
 
 According to the records of Surat Factory Diaries, Khoja Issac Davud, Khoja Jacob Semah, Khoja Shalom ha-cohen were some of the most successful and opulent merchants during the late 1700’s. Latty records further state that the existence of a synagogue in Surat was there in the last decade of the 18th century with regular services under the leadership of a ‘Rabbi’ called the priest.
 
 Writer Esther David says, “Surat has always been an important landmark in the lives of Indian Jews as both — the Bene Israel Jews and Baghdadi Jews — first arrived here around the 18th century. Surat was then a flourishing port and important for trade links. Their presence becomes obvious with the fact that there were two Jewish cemeteries in Surat. Eventually, the Baghdadi Jews, who were of the merchant class, moved to Mumbai and then Kolkata (formerly Calcutta), which eventually became their base. And, the Bene Israel Jews moved in and around Ahmedabad as it had the only synagogue in Gujarat.” 
 
 
