Margao: The rules make it clear that   cannot move to the next stage or qualify for the I-League. But there is still plenty at stake for the Goan franchise in the  . There is the small matter of knowing whether the young guns are making progress, and for the players, this is all about showing they are ready for the big stage called   ( ).
 
  On the evidence of FC Goa’s showing in the second division I-League so far, they still have quite some distance to cover. Goa have won just once in six games and that was against Madhya Bharat FC, who have lost all their six matches so far. On Saturday, FC Goa suffered yet another disaster as   triumphed 4-1 at the Trinity ground in Benaulim.
  
  The win helped Fateh move up to third on the points table with 10 points from six matches. They are just three points behind leaders FC Kerala and one behind favourites Ozone FC, who have a match in hand. Given their confident showing against Goa, Fateh will continue to make a push for a place in the next stage of the qualifiers.
  
  Sushil Meitei and Godwin Quashiga were among the goal scorers for Fateh in the first session, while   and   completed the rout after the change of ends. Substitute Lalawmpuia won a penalty and converted it himself to make it 3-1 and briefly inject a fightback but it was clear that, however hard they tried, Goa wouldn’t measure up to the challenge.
  
  Fateh weren’t outstanding. They didn’t appear to outplay Goa – as the scoreline suggests – but they never took their eyes off the target. They came here for three points and players like Sushil, captain Lalrinfela, besides the two young Ghanaians – Godwin and Edmond – ensured there were no hiccups.
  
  Goa tried too hard with each one trying to catch the eye. That extra touch in midfield, the needless dribbling on the flanks and some ordinary goalkeeping contributed to their loss. Striker Liston Colaco didn’t have a shot on target, Mohammad Yasir had to be replaced in the second half and Princeton Rebello was ineffective. Lalawmpuia did trouble the rival defence and even got a goal but if he was sharp enough in front of goal, he would probably have had a second-half hat-trick.
  
  Take nothing away from Fateh. Apart from scoring four times, they hit the bar twice and defender Meldon D’Silva was twice needed to make a goal-line clearance. Fateh deserved to win, although you could say Goa didn’t deserve to lose by such a margin.
