Here are the details of when, where and how to watch day three of the third Test between India and South Africa at New Wanderers Stadium, Johannesburg

 
 You can catch the action via live streaming through various online platforms. The United States audience can log on to 
 
 
 In India, for all the ball-by-ball updates and commentary you can keep a tab on TOI Sports'
 
 
 
 
 
 Riding on what should rank among India's most memorable bowling performances in conditions away from home where pace has dominated, Virat Kohli's men bowled out South Africa for 194 in their first innings after registering 187 in their first innings on Day One on Wednesday. At stumps on Day 2, India happened to be 42 runs ahead of the hosts with nine wickets in hand, batting on a wicket where every run scored will only add to South Africa's headache.
 
 To pick nine South African wickets in under three sessions and then give away just one in the remaining 17 overs of the day is an effort India can be proud of. It's been better than any other display they've come up with the bat since they landed here, barring Virat Kohli's two knocks - a century and a half-century - and Pujara's defining 50 the other day.
 
 Murali Vijay and KL Rahul, India's openers who have struggled with the new ball, pace and swing, faced 87 deliveries between them to see off the last session. Runs did not matter as three good days potentially remain. What mattered was staying around, an art that India's openers were found lacking in so far in South Africa.
 
 And yet, the battle hasn't tilted in India's favour yet. Hashim Amla gave a distinct presentation of his skills as he went about taking body blows, leaving, surviving and playing for 239 minutes and 121 balls - consuming close to two-and-a-half sessions of the entire day's play. The elegant South African's personal battle was a constant reminder of the conditions at play.
 
 Barring him and Vernon Philander - alongside Kagiso Rabada's wristy 30 from 84 balls that left India frustrated early in the morning - the hosts generally struggled.
 
 While no target could be comfortable for any team batting last, set any score in access of 200 to 225 and India could well be in the game.
 
 
