KOLKATA: A joint team from the Bidhannanagar Police detective department and the Airport police station arrested wholesale chicken dealer Kausar Ali Dhali, accused of selling dead and rotten chicken, soaked in formalin, from Hasnabad in North 24 Parganas on Tuesday night.

 
 The police, who had been on his trail since April 28, said they used both human and technical inputs to track down Dhali who was trying to flee to Bangladesh. This is the ninth and the most crucial arrest in this racket.
 
 
  
 Dhali ran Dhali Chicken Centre,a shop at Lake town, which shot into news after the police found rotten meat inside nine freezers at his farm near City Centre at New Town. Though he was not part of the carcass racket—meaning, he was not part of the gang that mixed carcass meat from dumpyards into fresh meat and sold to dealers and eateries—Dhali’s arrest assumes significance as he supplied the rotten meat to several eateries across Baguiati,   and other parts of Kolkata. He has been charged under sections 272, 273 of IPC and Section 51 of Food Safety and Security Act.
 
 Son of a farmer, Dhali ventured into poultry business four years ago though his father refused to give up farming. Initially, he set up a shop at  , where he brought chicken from his ancestral home, Basirhat’s Katarati village. Subsequently, he took up a one-room flat at Lake Town and opened a shop in the area. Around the same time, he started the chicken farm behind City Centre II. Dhali had been operating through 30 men. “He had a major distribution network. Each man was paid Rs 6,000-8,000 and the manager Rs 10,000. The total salaries added up to Rs 2.5 lakh. You can imagine his profits,” said an officer. At present, he owns a flat at Patipukur and owns two cars. He has built a large house at Basirhat, where his mother lives.
 
 The police said they would wait for the reports from the forensic experts even as they tried to unravel the exact chain. “There are certain grey areas that need to be checked with Dhali,” said an officer.
 
 On April 27, the racket was busted after a resident near Airport Gate 2.5, Anjan Kundu, spotted Dhali’s aide,  , carrying chicken on his motorcycle. “Alerted by the foul smell, Kundu rallied others to stop Gazi,” police said.
 
 “The meat was being sent to a retail chain that had opened barely 2.5 weeks ago. The owner,  , was arrested. Questioning led cops to the chicken farm-cum-cold storage from where four persons were detained. Another four were picked up later.”
 
 
  
 
