KOLKATA: The construction of the Metro corridor from Taratala station towards   has entered a crucial stage with the piling work for a pillar right at Taratala crossing. To facilitate the construction, one flank of the busy   — connecting Diamond Harbour (DH) Road and leading towards Hide Road and Maheshtala — has been shut for both vehicles and pedestrians, resulting in massive traffic snarls during peak office hours on Monday morning. 

 The vehicles entering Taratala Road from both DH Road and   now have to use the other flank coming from Jinjira Bazar. Though both flanks have two lanes each, the barricade has left motorists a little more than one-and-ahalf lanes. “There was a massive traffic snarl right from the edge of Taratala flyover on DH Road around 9.30am. I wanted to take the Durgapur Bridge and move towards   and lost around 15 minutes at the crossing,” said Sandip Gupta, a resident of Purti Apartments in Behala. 
 
  
  
 By evening though, a host of measures by traffic police had improved the situation. “We have made a separate channel for pedestrians and cycles. We have also restricted movement of goods vehicles from 6am to noon,” said DC (traffic)  . The number of cops were increased with at least two sergeants manning the area. Sources in the James Long Sarani traffic guard said the disruption w as temporary. “RVNL — which is the construction authority — has promised to complete the job in quickly. We are hoping that things will return to normal from next week,” said a senior police officer. RVNL authorities said they might be able to hand over the critical portion of the crossing by March 14. 
 
 Additionally, mint employees have come up with an eight-point charter of demands to notch up safety around the two schools in the vicinity. The move came after two lives were lost last week — on Taratala Road and DH Road — in two accidents. Though the bus stand on the Taratala Road has been pushed back, the condition of the surface has left cops worried. 
 
 According to the letter addressed to Kumar, and copied to OC New Alipore and OC Taratala, they have asked for a foot overbridge at the mint bus stand on DH Road. They also want sergeants to man the schools and mint gates in the morning and school dispersal times. The letter also demanded that speeding should be restricted on the Taratala flyover, the roads should be repaired and encroachers removed from the pavements.
