NASHIK: The   of   ( ) nabbed a   within two hours after he committed the crime and recovered the gold chain (costing around Rs 85,000), that he had stolen from a senior citizen on Sunday morning. 

 According to the RPF, a Nashik-based woman was travelling to Manmad when the suspect snatched the chain and jumped out of the moving train, when it was approaching Manmad railway station. The incident occurred on Sunday at 11.30am in the 54401 Pune-Manmad passenger train.
 
 The complainant - Leelavati Nemichand Sakhala (65), a resident of the Varkheda village in Dindori taluka of Nashik district - was travelling from Shrirampur to Manmad along with her sister when the suspect snatched the chain.
 
 "My sister and I took the train from Shrirampur and were ready to get down at Manmad. I was seated on a bench near the door. While we were waiting for the station to arrive, a youth snatched my chain and jumped out of the moving train," Sakhala said. "I cried for help but as the train was moving no one could get down and chase the suspect," she added.
 
 When the train reached the station Sakhala quickly approached the RPF for help. "We met the complainant at our office where she narrated her ordeal," RPF inspector KD More said.
 
 The RPF has started regularly updating the track records of criminals and also maintain surveillance over them as a result it becomes easy in reaching out to the history sheeters at the earliest. "We asked Sakhala to register a case with the   (GRP). We also showed her the photos of the people on our records and she picked up one matching the profile of the suspect," the officer said.
 
 Since the accused was a resident of Mannmad, the RPF and GRP together launched the combing operation. The GRP assistant police Inspector Sudhakar Patil along with the RPF-men then searched and raided the house where the suspect - identified as 26-year-old Sagar Marsale, - was arrested. Marsale confessed to committing the crime and the RPF recovered the chain worth Rs 85,000 in two hours. 
 
 
 
