PATNA: The   ( ) will commence expansion work of the check-in area on the ground floor and security hold area (SHA) on the first floor of the terminal building at   (JPNI)   here by this month-end.

 AAI officials said the pre-fabricated porta cabins would be installed in front of the terminal building where a temporary tent has recently been erected to expand the check-in area. Similar expansion works will be done in the SHA on the first floor. The expanded check-in and SHA are likely to be ready by the end of February.
 
 “The expansion of the check-in and SHA is being done as interim measures to de-congest the crowding of passengers inside the terminal building. The expansion works will be completed within a time frame of 40 days utilizing funds to the tune of Rs80.71 lakh,” JPNI director   told TOI on Monday.
 
 Apparently, a lot of chaos occurred due to overcrowding at the city airport following disruption in flight operations owing to foggy weather over the past few weeks. Starting from the first week of December, a number of flights started getting cancelled or diverted to nearby cities due to visibility constraints at Patna airport owing to the dense fog cover.
 
 There were days when 10 to 15 flights got cancelled leading to crowding of tens of hundreds of passengers at the airport waiting for their flights. The airport virtually looked like a bus stand or railway station with passengers standing in serpentine queue or sitting in the parking area for several hours. Accordingly, the airport authorities erected two tents, which together have the seating capacity for 600 passengers. But the space constraint continues to remain an issue inside the terminal building. 
 
 Airport officials said the expansion works on the first floor of terminal building is aimed at making stopgap arrangements till a new state-of-the-art terminal building is made ready. AAI has plans to commence the extension of Patna airport’s terminal building from May. The new building will be a two-storey structure, equipped with six aerobridges and an apron area to park 14 aircraft at any given time.
 
 AAI has also decided to start 24-hour operations at Patna airport from April 25. This will allow night operations as well from 10pm to 6am, thereby reducing the daytime air traffic. Sources said airlines have also shown interest in operating flights from Patna airport during night time and may add late night flights as well.
 
 
