KOLAR: Taking a dig at All India   Committee ( ) president Rahul Gandhi’s statement that he was ready to become the Prime Minister after the Lok Sabha polls in 2019, PM Narendra   on Wednesday dubbed him as a PM “Namdar” (dynast), with the “ahankar” (arrogance) to announce himself for the post without any deliberations.

 
 At Beerandhalli in Bangarpet constituency of Kolar district, Modi mocked Rahul for projecting himself as the next PM. He likened the statement to a situation in a village where people queue up in front of a water tanker, hoping to get water in an orderly manner but are suddenly pushed aside by a local goon who jumps the line.
 
 “Similarly in   and in Hindustan’s politics, suddenly a man comes from outside, pushes aside the leaders who have worked for 40 years in the party and declares himself the PM candidate for 2019. Tell me is namdar ka ahankar saathve aasmaan par hai yeh isska saboot hain ki nahin? (is this not proof of a dynast’s arrogance or not?)” Modi asked to loud cheers of affirmation.
 
 Modi said Rahul is an ‘immature politician’ who does not believe in principles of democracy. “Such a dynast, who doesn’t respect senior politicians and doesn’t believe in the internal democracy of Congress, can such an immature dynast be accepted ever by the people?” he asked.
 
 Not naming the Gandhi family, Modi said one family has taken the contract of the entire Congress party and six “Cs” have hindered the progress of the country in the last 70 years, the first C being Congress Culture, Communalism, Casteism, Crime, Corruption and Contract system. By adopting all the Cs, one family has ruined the country, he alleged.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Terming Congress “Deal wale” party, the PM said in every activity the party would make a ‘deal’ while on the other hand BJP is dilwale party and works for the country’s welfare. He referred to ex-Union minister M Veerappa Moily who alleged that party tickets are being sold by party leaders in collusion with some contractors.
 
 “In a bid to pacify him, the Congress entered into a deal with Moily and asked him to draft the “huge poem (Maha Kavya), the manifesto of the party. The manifesto is a fiction and people have not taken it seriously. As done to many veterans of the party even Moily will be cornered in the days to come,” he said.
 
 
