MUMBAI: A Good Samaritan who had found a commuter bleeding on the tracks at   and rushed him to a nearby hospital was berated by GRP personnel for not informing security personnel or waiting for them. 

 Shravan Tewari, 26, had a showdown with cops at the hospital late on Saturday. Tewari wrote a long post about it on Facebook and uploaded a video of his argument with policement. It was viewed by 1.5 lakh people and shared by 2,600 till late on Tuesday night.
 
 
  
 
 
 Senior inspector Rajendra Bhosle of Churchgate GRP said he was unaware of the incident.
  
 Tewari, a management graduate, runs his own business. On Saturday night, he saw a crowd on platform two and found a commuter lying on the tracks. He stopped a train and took him to hospital with some other people, only to be faced with cops who berated him and said he would have to wait the entire night at the police station. 
 
 “The platform had ended and I had to climb down on the tracks for a better look. The commuter’s head was faced towards the ground. I turned him around and found he was severely bleeding from his head, nose and hand. But he was still breathing and my only concern was getting him to a hospital before his health took a turn for the worse,” Tewari told TOI.
 
  
 Nobody was willing to help. “A train had arrived at the platform and I blocked its path. I said the train wouldn’t move until the victim had been lifted out of the tracks. There wasn’t a single uniformed policeman or   staffer on the platform. A couple of commuters agreed to help and we lifted the victim out into a taxi. He was rushed to Saifee Hospital nearby at 10pm. The hospital staff asked who would be willing to pay the victim’s treatment cost. At that moment, I said I would bear the cost just to ensure they started treatment,” said Tewari. By then, Tewari and his fellow commuters had gone through the victim’s cellphone and called his family. His name was Ashwin Sawant and he was in his 40s.
 
 “Forty minutes later, doctors informed us that Sawant had lost a lot of blood but he would survive. Hospital staff had informed the Churchgate GRP. They again inquired about who would foot Sawant’s treatment cost. This time, I reminded them that private hospitals cannot deny treatment to any patient brought to its doorstep in an emergency condition, according to Bombay high court orders. We had waited for over an hour at the hospital by the time the cops turned up but they behaved very badly. The cops wanted to know why I had touched the victim and not called security agencies. Why wasn’t the victim brought on a stretcher. Why didn’t I wait for cops to arrive etc. They also said that I would have to wait the entire night and accompany them to the police station. I lost my cool when they refused to read a statement I had prepared narrating the entire incident and doctor’s responses,” said Tewari.
 
 Someone shot a video clip of the showdown that ensued. Onlookers had to intervene as the cops as well as commuters who helped the victim shouted at each other. One of the cops told Tewari the government did not give them money to get accident victims treated. Sawant’s family arrived around 2am and spoke to Tewari. They moved him to J J Hospital.
 
 
