PANAJI: The fourth exercise in the quadrennial series of the All India   Estimation will kick off on Tuesday, when forest department officials, along with 77 volunteers, will begin a field survey.

  
 
 The census takes into account the entire spectrum of wildlife found in Goa, except birds and reptiles. “It is basically a census of the tiger, its co-predators and prey, which will help us ascertain the richness of biodiversity and the kind of wildlife that inhabits the 750sqkm of protected area,” deputy conservator of forests Anil Kumar said. 
 
 During the six-day exercise teams will set out on 67 routes across five protected areas, every morning, to check for live sightings as well as evidence of predators as well as their prey.
 
 For the first three days, volunteers from Goa, Karnataka, MP and Hyderabad led by forest guards and forest trackers will document live signs as well as pug marks, excreta and scratch marks of carnivores. The teams will spend the next three days documenting evidence of prey and its vegetation.
 
 An android-based application M Stripe (Monitoring System for Tigers Intensive Protection and Ecological Status) will also be used by some teams to digitally record the GPS location of evidence found.
 
 The field exercise will be followed by an intensive camera trap exercise.
 
 Footage will be downloaded from the camera traps each day from all locations that will help the department know the kind of animals and their movement over the past 24 hours. This is the first time camera traps are being used as a logical extension to the tiger census where the findings during the field exercise will be applied for camera trapping. Camera traps have been routinely and over the past four years. 
 
 Any droppings found are sent to the   for DNA fingerprinting to help ascertain whether these are from a single tiger or more. The stripe patterns of tigers recorded on camera traps will also be studied to find out the sub species of tiger and if at all any new sub species has been reported.
 
 “After June 1 we will have basic data and will be able to tell how many tigers there are as well as the density of wildlife in protected areas in Goa,” Kumar said. The data will then be compiled and released together with the   2018.
 
 
