MYSURU:   president   meeting the Mysuru royal family here on Friday sparked off speculation in political circles that the party was planning to field one of them in the assembly polls.

 During his hour-long meeting with  , scion of the erstwhile royal family Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar and his wife Trishika Kumari, it is said Shah extended an open offer to Pramoda Devi to contest the polls from a city assembly segment. It is learnt that the seat offered was Krishnaraja, now represented by Congress MLA Vasu.
 
 But the royal family members reportedly remained non-committal on the offer. Pramoda Devi’s husband Srikantadatta Narasimharaja Wadiyar had unsuccessfully contested the Mysuru Lok Sabha seat on a BJP ticket, after quitting the Congress.
 
 After visiting the prominent Lingayat Suttur mutt, Shah along with BJP leaders H N Ananth Kumar and B S Yeddyurappa visited Mysuru Palace around 10.40am. Some aides of the royal family were also present at the meeting.
 
 BJP sources said Shah’s visit was arranged by Trishika’s father Harshavardhan Singh, Rajasthan’s Dungapur royal family member and a BJP Rajya Sabha MP.
 
 The meeting was planned to invite the Wadiyars to associate with the BJP, as the family has kept away from political activities after the death of Srikantadatta Wadiyar in December 2013, though Yaduveer has said he is interested in politics but will not join any party as yet.
 
 The family is upset with the state government over the move to acquire Mysuru Palace, set in motion by Siddaramaiah when he was finance minister in Patel’s government. The BJP tried to take advantage of this bitterness between the royals and Siddaramaiah, and win them over.
 
 While Yaduveer reportedly clarified that he is not ready to fight elections, Shah reportedly asked Pramoda Devi whether she would consider the Lok Sabha election. Shah did not speak to the media on his meeting with the royals, who also kept mum.
 
 
 SOFT TOUCH: BJP leaders Amit Shah, B S Yeddyurappa and H N Ananth Kumar with scion Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar and royal baby Aadhyaveer Narasimharaja Wadiyar
 
 SHAH CUDDLES ROYAL BABY
 Amit Shah also met royal baby Aadhyaveer Narashimaraja Wadiyar on his visit to Mysuru Palace. BJP sources said Pramoda Devi and Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar welcomed Shah, BS Yeddyurappa and H N Ananth Kumar to their private residence and held discussions on politics and the assembly elections.
 
 Sources said that after the meeting, Yaduveer went in and returned with his fourmonth-old son Aadhyaveer. After nearly six decades, a baby was born to the Mysuru royal family.
 
 Yaduveer’s wife Trishika Kumari was also present. Shah was delighted to see the newborn and cuddled the royal baby and played with him. Sources said Shah later visited the puja room where he prayed to the royal family deity for a few minutes. He later walked around the residence and saw the private collections of artefacts, armories, paintings and wall décor, while family members explained the details of each item. TNN
 
 
