CHANDIGARH: When  , 39, a resident of Bara Gaon village in  , drove home in a brand new car on Saturday, he had done more than just get himself plush four wheels. This former rifleman of Rajputana Rifles had managed to convince the ministry of defence to change its policy on allowing ex-servicemen, who were disabled during action, to buy cars from canteen stores department (CSD) outlets. 

 The   headquarters needed an injured soldier, who had been discharged, to spend at least 10 years in service before being eligible to buy cars from CSD. On Rajak's request, the length-of-service norm was abolished.
 
 The rifleman was injured in an encounter with terrorists on May 23, 2002, at Anantnag in Jammu and Kashmir while he was posted with a Rastriya Rifles battalion. He suffered bullet injuries in his spinal cord, which confined him to a wheelchair for the rest of his life. He was released from the Army on medical grounds in 2003 after six years of service.
 
 Rajak says he decided to try and overturn the policy because he wanted to buy the car only through CSD. "Finding the policy unreasonable for soldiers who left the army unwillingly, I decided to approach the Army headquarters. I am grateful that the ministry changed the policy and soldiers like me who have given so much to the nation, would be entitled to some privileges," he said.
 
 Lt Col S S Sohi (retd), who helped Rajak raise the issue with the Army's top brass, said that the 10-year condition was not reasonable because these soldiers made a big sacrifice and were then forced to leave the force. 
 
 
 
 
 Lt Col S S Sohi (retd) said, "I am happy the policy has been replaced." 
 
 In a letter issued on May 4, the integrated headquarters (ministry of defence), released the fresh policy, according to which all battle casualty soldiers who were boarded out of services before completing 10 years of service, would be entitled to buying a subsidized four-wheeler through CSD at a discount of about 12% to 15%. The soldier, however, should be receiving pension and should be declared battle casualty by the Army headquarters.
 
 Rajak, who motivates youths in his village to join the Army, says he will modify the car with a special kit to make it easy for him to drive it.
 
 
 
