HUBBALLI: The price of tender coconut is now Rs 30 to Rs 35 in the city. Though heavy rains lashed the city bringing much respite to citizens from the sultry weather, prices of tender coconut has remained at an all-time high. 

 As mercury levels are increasing day by day, people are exploring many ways to beat the heat. Tender coconuts come in handy for people to keep cool in hot summer. Vendors are finding it difficult to meet the growing demand. As a result, price of tender coconut has been increasing drastically.
 
 According to sources, nearly 1,000 people sell tender coconut in   and   on the road side and from small shops and vehicles. Daily, 10 loads of tender coconuts reach the twin cities from Mandya, Maddur, Channarayapattana, Nanjangud, Davanagere and other areas. Each load contains 6,000 to 10,000 tender coconuts.
 
 Arif Bashir, a tender coconut vendor on  , said demand increased in the past one month. "The wholesale price has gone up from Rs 15 to 20 depending on the size and we sell it for Rs 25 to 30. I am selling nearly 200 tender coconuts a day. Earlier, I could sell 350-400 in the summer as prices were lower then," he said.
 
 "I jumped into business in the year 1992. Then the wholesale price of tender coconut was Rs 2.25 to 2.50. We used to sell each coconut for Rs 5 and but now the wholesale price gone up to Rs 15 to 20. If the summer heat continues, then the price can shoot up further," he added.
 
 Madhu Kulkarni, a retired bank employee said, "Since I was suffering from kidney stones 10 years back, I am consuming two tender coconuts every day. Day by day the price of tender coconut is increasing. I prefer tender coconuts from  , which are sweeter than those from other places in Karnataka."
 
 Ashok Patil, of Gokul Road said, "It is very difficult for me to sustain in the summer heat. Based on doctor's advice I am consuming 2-3 tender coconuts every day to beat the heat instead of drinking soft drinks. But the increasing price is worrying."
 
 
