NEW DELHI: Suggesting immediate steps to curb severe   caused by  , a PMO-appointed panel has recommended that the government give a subsidy of 50% to farmers and 75% to cooperative societies willing to buy agricultural equipment and machines that are used for managing paddy straw. 

 Large scale stubble burning during October-November every year causes smog in the national capital region (NCR) and Delhi, in particular, becomes a gas chamber. 
 
 The committee with representatives from Haryana and Punjab governments besides the ministries concerned has observed that while the long-term measures such as converting paddy residue into ethanol and using them for power plants would take their own time, the focus has to be on “in-situ” processing of paddy stubble.
 
 Suggesting on-the-spot solutions, the panel recommended that the Centre can provide subsidy for equipment such as Happy Seeder, Super SMS for combines, straw chopper/ shedder and mulchers used for management of paddy residue to farmers through direct benefit transfer scheme. 
 
 It has also proposed that the government provide 75% subsidy to cooperative societies and custom hiring centres (CHCs) set up by self-help and farmer interest groups. These entities will then rent out the equipment to farmers at hiring charges to be fixed by the state governments. 
 
 “These entities can maintain them for 5-7 years and if farmers want to buy the old equipment that should also be allowed. As the cost will get reduced in the case of used machines, farmers would find them affordable,” said a government source.
 
 According to estimates prepared by the committee, the central subsidy for this purpose would be around Rs 490 crore. The panel has also recommended that the   Cost and Prices (CACP) can consider additional costs associated with the crop residue management while working out the minimum support price (MSP) for paddy. In that sense, such farmers may get higher MSP after providing proof of disposal of stubble. 
 
 The panel has also recommended preparing documentaries about positive effects of using the machines to manage the stubble in order dispel the misleading notion that these impact soil health. Short films can be telecast on Krishi Darshan channel of Doordarshan from April to November, the committee has suggested.
 
 To ensure that the mechanism is put in place well in time to avoid repeat of the environmental crisis in the NCR, the panel has also suggested the time-line for each task.
 
 
