For eight long years, she ruled Indian television as the docile beti and bahu. However, when   — popular as TV show ' '’s Akshara — became a part of '  Season 11', the audience were in for an unexpected twist. For, here was a strong and opinionated woman, who was not afraid of speaking her mind. While many admired her courage and confidence, there were some who felt that she was too arrogant. But Hina, in her own words, ‘doesn’t fear being judged’. In an exclusive chat with Bombay Times, the actress talks about reality shows, romance and future plans.

 
 
 Ask her if her image has suffered a setback after appearing on 'Bigg Boss' and she replies, “No. On the contrary, I feel that people relate to me even more now. My fan base has changed and it comprises more educated people. The feedback that I am getting has left me surprised. I jokingly ask Ro (boyfriend  ), ‘Isne aise bola hai, isne poora show dekha hai na?’ I keep telling him that I am now better prepared to be a part of 'Bigg Boss', as I know what I have to do inside the house. However, he tells me that I will do the same thing again because that’s how I am. He has asked me to just concentrate on acting (laughs).”
 She adds, “While trying to be real on reality TV, I forgot that I had to play a game. Mujhe politically correct hona nahi aata hai. People shouldn’t expect me to behave like the character (Akshara) that I played, it doesn’t work like that in real life. Akshara will be remembered for what she was, par kabhi toh real Hina saamne aayegi na. You can like or dislike me. You are entitled to form an opinion about me and I don’t fear being judged. After coming out of the house, I watched a few episodes of my altercation with Priyank Sharma and  , and wondered how I could react like that. But that’s how the house is. Some contestants have reacted in a worse manner. I am blessed that I quickly forget things. I have no memory of 'Bigg Boss'.”
 
 
 
 The actress had always been fiercely guarded about her relationship with Rocky, who was the production head on her daily soap. However, when he entered the house during a special task, emotions took over and the duo uttered the magical three words on national TV. So, it took a 'Bigg Boss' for her to admit to the relationship. “Yes. It wouldn’t have happened otherwise. It wasn’t planned; I have always been very guarded about my personal life.” While the couple is serious about each other, marriage will have to wait. “I will get married after a couple of years,” Hina says. Ask her if she will learn cooking, something that she was often derided for not knowing inside the house and pat comes the reply, “I haven’t learnt it yet because it doesn’t interest me. I might develop interest a few years later, but not now. Shaadi ho jaayegi toh kar loongi.”
 
 
 
 Hina says that above everything else, the show has taught her not to break a relationship over petty issues. “Uss ghar mein maine ek cheez seekhi hai ki I will apologise to my dear ones, who I have fought with over petty issues. Inside the house, you will still talk, laugh and eat with the same people you have had nasty fights with,” she observes.
 Does that mean that she will iron out her differences with producer  , who introduced her to the industry with 'Yeh Rishta...'? She replies, “Main Rajanji se kab baat nahi karna chah rahi thi? Even if I bag the biggest award, he will be the first one I will go up to, not my father. I will never forget him as he is the one who brought me into this industry and believed in me.”
 
 
 
 Talking about mending fences, what about fellow contestant  ? In an interview with BT, Shilpa had said that Hina is the only contestant she would not like to meet outside the house. However, Hina says, “If I have to work with Shilpa, I will be okay. I am very professional, I can work with my enemies, too. My habit of forgetting everything is a good quality. Also, none of the contestants are my enemies. Shilpa and I are different people and so is our approach towards life. I won’t be judgmental by saying whose is good or bad. If I bump into her, I am definitely going to say hello to her, hug her and ask how she is doing.”
 The plans ahead Hina says that she has had her fill of reality TV. “I would like to take up a fiction show or a film now. My work will be my priority. However, I want to be on a break for a few months before I return with a bang,” she signs off. 
 
 
