AHMEDABAD: Rattled by six murders in a fortnight, under pressure city cops say they have detected four murder cases that took place in the previous fortnight and arrested a total of ten accused persons. 

 However, another murder on late on Sunday night at a construction site in Naroda was reported. This is the sixth murder this fortnight.
 
  On Monday, crime branch arrested   Bheldar and   for the murder of Ganesh Prajapati in the Narol area a fortnight ago.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (crime branch), Dipan Bhadran said Prajapati would allegedly harass Rakesh’s wife. “She was fed up of Prajapati’s harassment and even left for her maternal home in UP because of it,” Bhadran said.
 
 “A fortnight ago, Rakesh and his associate Bhola called Prajapati to a secluded spot in Narol to discuss the matter. They stabbed Prajapati repeatedly in the stomach and neck and killed him. They left his body at the scene and fled,” added a crime branch source.
 
 Gomtipur police nabbed Nitin Dantani, his friend Anil Dantani and Nitin’s uncle Raman Dantani, for murder of  , which took place at noon on Saturday.
 
 “Suresh, during a stay with his maternal cousin Nitin, had an affair with Tejal, Nitin’s wife. Enraged, Nitin and the other accused came to Suresh’s house in Gomtipur and stabbed him and his mother Shardaben. Nitin died on the spot while Shardaben is being treated for her wounds,” said a senior Gomtipur police official.
 
 City police were jolted by reports of the murder of another youth, at a construction site at Naroda Baithak in Naroda. Already under pressure over older murders, within hours of the crime, Naroda police nabbed  , 25, of   for the murder of one Prakash Asari, 22, a native of Rushabdev in Rajasthan.
 
 “Devilal hit Ganesh Asari with a stick and iron rods on the head, killing him on the spot. We arrested Devilal from his native place, Dungarpur in Rajasthan,” said a police official.
 
 On Monday, Meghaninagar police arrested four persons accused of the murder of Pankaj Rathod. Rathod, who had a criminal background and was externed from the city by police, was stabbed to death by four accused near Bhargavnagar, on Saturday night.
 
 “We arrested   Vaghela, Jagdish Nadiya, Jigar Nadiya and a 17-year-old boy for Rathod’s murder. The accused were nursing an old enmity with Rathod,” said A D Gohil, inspector of Meghaninagar police station.
 
 
