Nagpur: Problems related to RTE admission payments is forcing majority of city schools to explore the option of seeking a minority status. This current academic session itself, a multi-branch CBSE school was granted minority status which allows it to move outside the RTE ambit from 2018-19 session. TOI spoke to at least six CBSE schools that are now either in the final stages of applying or have hired legal consultants for feasibility check.  A school trustee, who is an active politician from the ruling party, told TOI that applying for minority status is the only way out. “The payments with RTE will continue to multiply and frankly I don’t think that schools will ever be paid the entire amount. We had actually started the process (of minority application) but it was put on hold due to some reasons. But now, I will revive it and follow through for a linguistic minority status,” she said. A multi-branch school trustee who got minority tag post-RTE implementation said, “All schools want to give RTE admissions and fully understand that it is a social obligation. Many of us are even okay with the extremely low amount of reimbursement the government gives, but the delay is unacceptable. At the end of the year when we calculate all the expenses, there is a quite a deficit to cover. It’s just not worth going through all the administrative hassles when government is not ready to stand firm on its promise.”  All the big schools that have gone for minority status, coincidentally, are CBSE affiliated. It is not surprising either, considering the central board’s increasing popularity in Nagpur. The education department is aware of the trend by schools to line up for a minority tag, but says it cannot do anything about the situation. An education official, said, “We have no say in that as it comes under the minority affairs department. Plus, it’s the trustees’ constitutional right. After schools get the minority certificate, they inform us and we update a records to ensure they can avail benefits, if any.”  With various school associations in the city, members are increasingly talking with each about taking the minority route. A school trustee, who is in the process of applying, said, “People do talk with each other and there are lawyers who can handle the entire process from end to end. The government has mismanaged RTE payment schedule and has lost confidence of school owners who were otherwise willing to be partners in this social outreach.” 