JOHANNESBURG: When the time comes for the Indian team to pack their bags for England, their second big challenge in 2018 after this demanding tour of South Africa,   will be among the first to board that flight. At 28, few would deserve the opportunity more than the Meerut-born cricketer who has impressed with the ball whenever handed the responsibility.

 
 
 
 On Sunday, it was Bhuvneshwar’s five-wicket haul that destroyed South Africa in the first of the three T20Is. On a track where South Africa’s own hand-picked attack of six full-time bowlers struggled, the Indian swing bowler went back to the basics of line and length to bowl a spell that decided the contest in the second half of play.
 
 He was responsible for sending back almost every South African batsman worth his while at the crease, starting with opener Jon Smut, the impressive  , skipper  , the dangerous Heinrich Klaasen and allrounder Chris Morris. “What I was trying to do is bring about some change of pace in my bowling. Just wanted to take the pace off the ball because I knew it wouldn't be easy to hit the ball and that’s what I did,” Kumar said after the day.
 
 
 
 His conveying of the strategy remained simple, as has his outlook been towards the game. The bowler - who often contributes with the bat too - has remained calm and worked his way towards acquiring stature within the team.
 
 His ability to think out of the box once he’s been given the ball, bowl a few deliveries to figure out what he needs to do on a certain track and outthink batsmen has been catching serious attention.
 
 “Taking wickets means a lot to me when playing for the country. It doesn’t matter if you take five wickets or how many as long as you’re winning matches. I want to do it as long as possible,” he says.
 
 On Sunday night, Bhuvneshwar gave a brief insight into how his mind works when running in with the ball. He spoke of the length adjustments he had to make and slow down the pace of the ball to extreme levels to make batting difficult for the South Africans.
 
 “Today, for instance, after we batted (first), we had a certain idea of the kind of wicket we would be bowling on. Today we bowled a lot of slow balls. It was a part of our strategy on this wicket, to do away with pace and make it difficult for the batsmen to score. Apart from line and length, it’s important to understand how you want to mix your deliveries. It matters,” he said.
 
 South Africa, on the contrary, kept bowling short to India, a strategy that backfired and Bhuvneshwar says the hosts may have continued it in the belief that India have a ‘problem’ playing the short ball. “That’s not been the case this time. We have really tackled it (short balls) well. Today they bowled 5-6 short overs to us early on and it really backfired on them,” he added.
 
