BHUBANESWAR: The   (BMC) on Wednesday slapped   (final warning) on 284 persons, including  ,   for failing to pay holding tax. The civic body has given them March 31 deadline to pay the tax or else it will invoke   (OPDR) Act, 1972, to institute cases against the defaulting individuals to recover the amount by confiscating their properties. 

 Holding tax is an important revenue component, which is collected from people on the basis of the plinth area of the house, shops, commercial establishments, educational institutions. People have the option to pay the tax online or directly at the BMC counter. In the last fiscal, it generated about Rs 35 crore.
 
 Officials said Rs 9 crore is due from the defaulters. "We have given March 31 deadline as it is the closing for the current fiscal. This year till December end, the civic body had collected Rs 14 crore holding tax, said BMC deputy commissioner Srimanta Mishra. 
 
 Out of the 284 persons, the highest Rs 2.52 crore is pending against Apex Engineering College, Pahala. "We will take stringent action against the defaulters. Under OPDR Act, if a case is instituted against an individual by the an officer of the BMC, who is designated as certificate officer, property (movable and immovable) in proportion to the pending amount can be confiscated," said Mishra. The certificate officer can also attach the bank account of the individual, he added. 
 
 In January 2017, the civic body obtained a special permission from the revenue divisional commissioner (central division) to designate three of its deputy commissioners as certificate officers, who will be empowered to take the action against the tax evaders under OPDR Act.
 
 The Act also empowers the officer to recover the dues and charge compound interest at the rate of 12% on the dues, officials said. The city has at present more than one lakh holdings. The urban body also decided to seek help of Orissa Space Applications Centre (ORSAC) for digitization of all the holdings in the city. The ORSAC data will be corroborated with one ones found during ground survey and then a final list of people coming under tax net will be prepared, said the officer. 
 
 
