NAGPUR:   nritya, a unique style that took bits and pieces from Indian classical and folk dance forms, stole the show at a programme organized by  , a Bengali Literature Club of Vidarbha, to mark the birth anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore, at Rajaram Library, Gokulpeth, on Wednesday. 

 Khanan has been celebrating the Nobel laureate’s birth anniversary every year on the 25th day of Bengali month of Baisakh to remember Tagore’s contribution to the field of art and literature.
 
 Oishika Chakravarty, a student, who performed Rabindra nritya on the great litterateur’s songs, won hearts of the audience. The presentation was remarkable as Tagore strongly believed in coordination and blending of different cultures. 
 
 Artistes from Nagpur, Bhadrawati and Kolkata also recited his poetries and sung his compositions. 
 
 Audio recordings of Tagore played at the venue surcharged the atmosphere and made members feel his aura. 
 
 Khanan is a creative Bengali journal which is published twice in a year. However, after every meeting or a literary session, a bulletin is released. Speaking to TOI, editor Sukumar Choudhury said, “We released the 92nd bulletin today and I feel delighted that we are promoting the ideology of Tagore for the last so many years.”
 
 Speaking about the motto of the organization, he said, “Khanan in Bengali means digging out and we are focusing on scooping out the hidden potential of our people from Vidarbha and other parts of the state. We want to give them a platform to be heard so that their work gets noticed and they are able to improvise their art.” 
 
 Inspired by Tagore that inclined towards creativity, the 16th book of Choudhury, a compilation of poems based on contemporary issues of life, was also released during the function. 
 
 Choudhury praised the wisdom of Tagore and said, “His scripts penned down decades ago are still relatable, which indicates his foresight. The legend has explored all the existing human emotions and wrote about each aspect.”
 
 
