BATHINDA: With the cotton sowing started picking up in Punjab, the state agriculture and   welfare department is confronted with arrival of spurious BT cotton (Bollgard II variety) seeds from  . 

 With complaints of spurious seeds started reaching the state, the agriculture department on Wednesday evening conducted aids at three places and seized 2,426 packets of BT cotton seeds of unapproved company. The seeds company had forged the signatures of the director of the state agriculture department to claim the product has been duly approved.
 
 The seeds were of Gujrat based Vishwas Biogenetic Seeds Private Limited. The department officials found 1,496 packets of 450 gram each from Bala Ji seeds store at Rama town of Bathinda, Naib Singh and Vikas Kumar of the Bala Ji store have been named as accused in the case. The 930 packets were seized from Chandan Hybrid Seed Company at Gidderbaha town of Muktsar district.
 
 According to department officials, the Gujrat based company had sent 2,460 packets in Punjab on April 24, out of which 1,500 packets were sent to Rama town and 960 to Gidderbaha. The department is trying to identify the farmers to whom the 30 seed packets were sold by Gidderbaha store and four packets by Rama store.
 
 “The state agriculture department has convened a high level meeting on Friday to take stock of cotton sowing in Punjab. The issue of spurious seeds too will be debated in the meeting to be presided by Punjab Additional Chief Secretary (development) Viswajeet Khanna,” said agriculture director J S Bains. 
 
 Earlier 137 packets of BT cotton seeds were found lying abandoned near railway tracks of village Khokhar on March 10.
 
 The Union government on March 13 had reduced the price of BT cotton Bollgard II seeds from Rs 800 per packet to Rs 740. Two packets of 450 gram each are normally used in 1 acre. Punjab agriculture department has approved nearly 60 varieties of hybrid seeds.
 
 Bains and joint director   said, “Searches were conducted at some seed dealers in Bathinda, Muktsar sand Mansa on Wednesday following a tip off that some spurious seeds could have reached the market. During searches 2,426 packets of spurious seeds were found and efforts are being made to recover 34 more packets of the same batch. Department is very serious and will make every effort to seize every single packet of spurious seed if reaches the state”.
 
 
