Vadodara: Milind Gandhi, a friend of Hemin Limbachiya who drowned in New Zealand on January 14, has taken an initiative to raise fund for the deceased’s wife Tanvi Bhavsar and his family.  Gandhi has started a website for this purpose through which anyone can donate money not only for Bhavsar’s future, but also to cover cost that will be incurred to bring Limbachiya’s body to India. The website (https://givealittle.co.nz/cause/support-for-hemin-vinubhai-limbachiyas-young-wife) mentions that bringing Limbachiya’s body to India with one person accompanying it and Bhavsar will alone cost New Zealand $20,000. Besides this, the couple had a combined debt of $40,000 which they had incurred for their wedding in Vadodara on December 4 last year. The website which will accept donation till April 17 is directly linked to Bhavsar’s bank account. Until Thursday evening 335 people had donated $16,001. It is being said that it will be difficult for Bhavsar to return to New Zealand once she comes back to India. She was on a dependent work visa based on Limbachiya’s work visa. If she would want to immigrate to New Zealand, she will have to fight a legal battle which will be another major expense for her. TOI tried to contact Gandhi, but he did not respond to the emails. Gandhi, who is also a Barodian working in New Zealand, has been making tireless efforts and is in constant touch with the Indian High Commission in New Zealand to bring Limbachiya’s body back home. Limbachiya’s father Vinod had also written to Union minister for external affairs Sushma Swaraj on Twitter to help them in getting his son’s body to city as early as possible. Vadodara MP Ranjan Bhatt, who had helped the family get in touch with the ministry and the High Commission, said that the body is expected to reach Ahmedabad on Saturday from where it will be brought to city by road. The couple living in Napier city in New Zealand were swimming in the waters at Waimarama beach when they were swept further into the sea. A 16-year-old local Cameron McCallum and two surfers rescued both of them, but Limbachiya had succumbed by then. Bhavsar was given treatment by paramedics onshore and later taken to hospital from where she was discharged on Tuesday.