NEW DELHI: With just three wins out of 10 matches this   season,   are all but out of the playoff race. Mathematically, they might still end up finishing among the top-four but that depends on them winning all their remaining four matches. 

 
 
 
 Saturday provides them with an opportunity to keep their slim hopes alive when they meet fellow laggards   at  . The last time these two sides clashed, RCB recorded a dominating win at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium.   was the star of the night as he blasted unbeaten 90 off 39 and he believes that a hurt RCB are still capable of surprising everyone.
 
 "There is an old saying: beware the ill golfer. Be wary of the golfer who arrives at the course saying he isn’t feeling well and doesn’t expect to play well, because he will play without pressure and without trace of any fear of failure ... and, more often than not, he will relax and perform extremely well," De Villiers wrote in his column for The Times of India on Saturday. 
 
 Despite boasting of a strong squad, led by Virat Kohli, RCB have failed to live up to the expectations. And when the matches have gone down the wire, they have ended up on the losing side. De Villiers admits that the team has let themselves down. "It might be said that RCB is currently the ill golfer of the IPL. We have assembled a strong squad and we have played well at times and yet, in crucial moments, usually in the closing overs with both bat and ball, we have let ourselves down badly, won only three matches out of 10 and now find ourselves on the brink of elimination," he wrote.
 
 However, the 34-year-old is positive and feels that the fact they are still alive in the tournament gives them the necessary push to go out and give their best. "And yet, and yet ... we’re not dead yet. There is no doubt that we need to win all four of our four remaining league matches — against DD at the Feroz Shah Kotla on Saturday, against KXIP in Indore on Monday, then at home to SRH on Thursday and, finally, against RR at Jaipur on Saturday 19 May. We know we have let people down, yet we know we retain a chance of sneaking into the knockout phase, and we still believe we can beat anyone," he concluded. 
 
 
