KOCHI: You might be surprised to know that the orphanage control board, under the   (SJD), has been receiving five to six applications each month from 2016-17, seeking permission to begin old-age homes in Kerala. Most of the applications are from  ,  ,   and  . At present, there are 565 old-age homes in Kerala accommodating 10,500 persons.

  
  
 
 Rising elderly population, migration of youth to other countries and increase in the number of nuclear families have contributed to this phenomenon, said SJD officials. The ministry of statistics had published a report on the elderly in India in 2016. It put the elderly people at 12.6% of the state’s population; the highest in India.
 
 “The number of applications to register old-age homes are increasing here due to public demand. Our population is ageing and youths are saddled with work, many of them are working abroad. Hence they seek better care facilities for their parents. Family problems is yet another factor. Often, children directly inquire about old-age homes with better facilities that allow constant visits,” said nodal officer of the board P Jayakumar.
 
 At the same time, the government formed a three-member committee in 2017 to study old-age homes and how the elderly people are treated. The panel is likely to submit its report to the government by the end of the month.
 
 Starting an old-age home requires the orphanage control board’s permission that is given within three months after inspecting the facilities & building of the applicant. The first condition is that old-age home should have its own building.
 
 Else, the applicant will have to furnish an affidavit that the institution will set up a permanent building within four years. If not, the registration issued to the applicant will be suspended. The board began this practice as institutions running old-age homes on rented premises discontinued the service a year after securing registration from the board.
 
 Of the 565 old-age homes, 224 receive government grant. Once in a while, the board also receives applications for starting modern old-age homes that include separate apartments for aged couple with medical care and other related facilities. “We receive five or six such applications a year. All these institutions accommodate aged people after collecting a good amount. Sometimes, the aged join such institutions for some time till their children return home,” said Jayakumar.
 
 “We opened a retirement home in May 2017. Already, we have 12 residents here. We usually receive several enquiries from interested parties. Most of them are retired and are entangled in dispute with family members,” said Mini Mohanan, trustee of Spring Valley retirement home in Aluva.
 
 
 
