BENGALURU: After Bus Day, Open Street Day, and No Vehicle Day, the government will now roll out   in a bid to decongest roads in the city and rein in vehicular pollution.   (February 11) will be the city’s first Less Traffic Day, bringing to fruition an idea mooted by transport minister H M Revanna in December last year. 

 While there will be no restrictions on private vehicles, the government has urged citizens to opt for public transport, cabs or autorickshaws. It plans to launch awareness drives as it strives to popularize Less Traffic Day, which will be held on every second Sunday of the month.
 
 
  
  
 
 On Less Traffic Days, BMTC will slash fares on daily passes and deploy additional buses. BMTC chairman Nagaraj Yadav revealed the corporation normally operates fewer buses on Sundays, especially on long weekends. “Now, we will operate more buses based on demand,” Yadav said. “We have also decided to reduce the daily pass fare from Rs 70 to Rs 65 on Less Traffic Day.”
 
  will also do its bit.  , managing director, said BMRCL will offer passengers using contactless card on second Sundays a 25% discount instead of the current 15%.
 
 "The policy for discounted fare is valid only on the second Sunday in the month,” Jain said. “This is to get citizens to use public transport and reduce vehicular congestion on roads so that everyone enjoys a less polluted weekend. BMRCL also hopes to benefit from this step through a likely increase in the ridership on the Metro. Secondly, since the facility would be available only for smartcard users. We hope this will encourage people to use smartcards and thus minimize cash transactions.”
 
 BMRCL officials said ridership on Sundays is about 70% of that on week days.
 
 Transport commissioner B Dayananda revealed a request has gone out to cab aggregators such as   and Uber to reduce fares this Sunday. “We appeal to people across the city to use public transport, non-motorized vehicles or cycles,” he said. The average speed of traffic in the city is less than 10kmph during peak hours, while the average ridership of BMTC and Namma Metro is 50 lakh and 4 lakh respectively.
 
 R Hithendra, additional commissioner of police (traffic), is all for Less Traffic Days. “Quite often we have traffic piling up on several stretches on Sundays as well,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Experts, however, feel Less Traffic Day could be a mere gimmick since the BMTC’s Bus Day (4th day of every month) and traffic police’s No Honking Mondays have not really caught the fancy of commuters. The only solution, they feel, is an efficient and cheap public transport system.
 
 “If the government is serious about reducing the number of private vehicles on roads, then it should expand mass transport systems to cover every corner of the city,” said traffic expert M N Srihari. “It should also ensure last mile connectivity for Metro users. Lack of awareness is not as much an issue now as lack of alternatives for people. The government should restrict registration of new vehicles.”
 
 Lekha Adavi of Bengaluru Bus Prayanikara Vedike, an NGO campaigning for better bus services, said: "The government should prioritise public transport system and disincentives private vehicles."
 
