SHAHJAHANPUR: The groom at a wedding in a village in   district was shot and killed by a bullet fired by his close friend during the ceremony. Police have booked the accused for murder and are examining a video clip to see if the shooting was deliberate.

  
  The clip, which is available with TOI, shows the accused Ram Chandra fiddling with a pistol close to the groom,  . The gun goes off, hitting Verma, just 24, in the chest. Caught by both sudden pain and surprise, Verma first clutches his chest, unaware that he has been shot. He then look around for a split second as if to figure out what actually happened to him. He then collapses as music in the background plays on and guests, equally unaware of what happened, smile on.
 
 
  
  
  
 Chandra is now on the run and police are looking for him.
  
  On Saturday night, Verma, a resident of Maholi area of Sitapur district, arrived at the wedding venue near the house of the bride, Ruby Verma. An employee with a pharmaceutical company, Verma was performing rituals as part of the wedding when he was hit by the bullet.
 
  According to his family, since loud music was playing at the venue, initially people did not realize that Verma had been shot. The groom was immediately rushed to hospital, where he was declared brought dead.
  
  An FIR under section 302 (murder) was registered on the complaint of  , the dead groom's father. Additional superintendent of police   told TOI, “We have booked Ram Chandra under section 302 (murder) of IPC. He has been absconding since the incident and will be arrested soon. We received a complaint th at Sunil Verma died in celebratory firing. We are investigating other angles as well.”
  
  
  
 
  
  
 : Sami, an 8-year-old boy, killed in firing at civic body election victory celebrations in Shamli
  
  
 : Noted local singer Joginder Kumar shot and killed at a Meerut village during the engagement ceremony of a BSP leader
  
  
 : Amity student  , 20, shot and killed at a Rampur wedding by a guest, Kamal Chauhan, who later committed suicide
  
  
 : Ashwini Singh, 15, was killed by a bullet fired by a guest at a wedding in a   village
  
  
 : Md Saddam, 24, hit and killed by a bullet fired by groom’s father in Shahjahanpur
