MUMBAI: Hectic lobbying is under way by some of the top shareholders of   to oust majority directors of the incumbent board even as the original bidder   combine on Monday revised its offer price to Rs 180 per share, 8% higher than the winner group of  .

 
 About 15 institutional shareholders together control more than 60% of   Healthcare with most of them taking a position against the board that recommended the joint offer of Munjal-Burman. Many of them are aligning with either Malaysia’s IHH or Manipal-TPG with prominent names like East Bridge Capital, Elliott Management and Rakesh Jhunjhunwala understood to be galvanising broader investor support. 
 
  
  
 All eyes are now on the May 22 shareholders’ meet that will decide on the fate of at least four of the eight board members as well as its recommendations.
 
 East Bridge and Jupiter India Find, which together own 12%, have moved a resolution to remove Harpal Singh (chairman emeritus of Fortis Healthcare), Brian Tempest, Sabina Vaisoha and Tejinder Shergill. These four directors were nominated by the company’s former promoters, Shivinder and  . Reacting to the resolution, the four directors have said that restructuring the board at this juncture will add more turbulence and ambiguity to the company.
 
 Manipal-TPG revised its bid on Monday after it noticed the negative reaction of Fortis Healthcare’s shareholders to the board’s decision of favouring the offer by Munjal-Burman. As a result, Manipal-TPG’s revised offer now values the troubled hospital chain at Rs 9,403 crore.
 
 The directors who supported Munjal-Burman’s bid are reported to have gone against the financial and legal advisers’ recommendations. The directors who voted in favour of Munjal-Burman are said to be connected to the erstwhile promoters. Harpal Singh is Malvinder Singh’s father-in-law, while Tejinder Singh and Sabina Vaisoha are old friends of the promoters and Brian Tempest was the CEO of Ranbaxy, a pharma company once owned by the Singh brothers. 
 
 A spokesperson for Fortis said that an EGM has been called by shareholders next week.
 
 The disadvantage that IHH has over other bidders is the lack of time it had to conduct due diligence. Following Monday’s revised offer by Manipal-TPG, the board may call an emergency meeting to consider the proposal. The board may also be forced to reconvene and allow some time for due diligence to the three serious contenders so that they could make final offers. This is an option which the board could look at to survive investor backlash. Sources said ace dealmaker Nimesh Kampani of JM Financial is assisting Munjal-Burman to garner shareholders’ support for its offer.
 
 In Monday’s flat market, the Fortis stock on BSE closed nearly unchanged at Rs 149.
 
 
