May is gone, but the heathasn’t. Sweltering days, scorching nights and unbearable humidity, that’s Hyderabad summer for you. And if there is anyone who hates it more than us, it has to be our pets.
While we can choose to sit in front of the air conditioners and relish ice creams, our pets have to rely on us to keep cool. We spoke to some pet parents to figure out how they help their furry friends and other pets beat the heat. Here are some tips that you too can use!
 
 
 Every time Sugar, my Shih Tzu, feels hot she puts her little tongue out and starts breathing heavily. I take her for walks early in the morning and late in the evening after her dinner because the temperature comes down during that time. Now, she gets less tired and her chances of getting a heat stroke too have decreased. I have also trimmed her fur as it had grown really long. Now she not only looks adorable but also keeps comfortable. — Diya Malhotra, Student of Indus Universal School
 
 
 My little Maltese, Charlie, lies down on the ground or a cooler surface and starts breathing heavily when he feels too hot. We give him small amounts of vanilla ice cream and he looks so cute when he polishes it off in no time. He doesn't let anyone close to him while he’s eating his ice cream because he wants it all to himself. We also leave the air conditioner on for him. It really cools down his little body and helps him escape the heat.
 —  , resident of Saket 
 
 
 My Shih Tzu, Kiara, loves to go swimming in shallow pools during the summer and so I take her once a week to swim at a pool in my uncle’s villa. Her body temperature increases if she’s feeling hot and she becomes very restless and hyper. My family and I are planning to take her with us to Ooty to escape the Hyderabadi summers. It would be an amazing vacation for us and little pup — Karan Keta, student of  
 
 
 I have two street dogs, five Boxers, one Dachshund, one Caravan Hound, one Basset Hound, one Golden Retriever and a Persian cat. I also have ducks, fishes and snakes. We keep the AC on for the dogs and trim their hair if it’s too long. As they love drinking cold water, we keep refilling their bowl throughout the day. I try to give them ice but they play around with it for a while and leave it; they don’t eat it. Our ducks naturally love water, so I put fresh water in for them frequently. The snakes, which ended up at my place after being rescued during the Friends Of Snakes Society drives, have a cooler for themselves and so don’t feel the heat. 
 — Aranya Kanuri, member of Friends of Snakes Society
 
 
 Ceaser, my two-year-old German Shepherd, changes his sitting position every five minutes when he feels hot. He also looks for darker places to lie down because they tend to be a little cooler, and that’s my cue to make lassi for him. The lassi basically cools down his body so we give him a little every day. It’s just a mixture of curd and water with no sugar as sugar is bad for dogs. The curd helps cool down his tummy during the hot summer. — Ananya Roy, resident of Yapral
 
 I have two street dogs, five Boxers, one Dachshund, one Caravan Hound, one Basset Hound, one Golden Retriever and a Persian cat. I also have ducks, fishes and snakes. We keep the AC on for the dogs and trim their hair if it’s too long. As they love drinking cold water, we keep refilling their bowl throughout the day. I try to give them ice but they play around with it for a while and leave it; they don’t eat it. Our ducks naturally love water, so I put fresh water in for them frequently. The snakes, which ended up at my place after being rescued during the Friends Of Snakes Society drives, have a cooler for themselves and so don’t feel the heat. 
 — Aranya Kanuri, member of Friends of Snakes Society
 
 
 A veterinary physician and surgeon with 25 years of experience, Dr Lakshmi talks about the do’s and don’ts of keeping your pets cool in summer. — Dr  , B.V.Sc & A.H, MVSC - Surgery
 
 
 l Keep your pet under a roof or a shaded area. If on the terrace, you can use wet gunny sacks as curtains to cut the heat off. l Get your pet trimmed and brushed daily, if he/she has a long coat.
 l Use cooling towels and blankets, especially after they exercise. l Give meals during early morning hours and in the evening after sunset. Give buttermilk or milk in the afternoon.
 l Wipe your pet with water in the morning and afternoon just before feeding. This will stimulate appetite. l Add electrolyte with water. l Leave the windows open (2-3 inches) while travelling in a car for air circulation.
 
 
 l Don’t keep your pet out in the sun during summer. l Don’t shave off the coat as they can get sunburnt. l Don’t feed dry dog food. l Don’t allow your pet to drink water immediately after eating as it may cause bloating.
 l Don’t feed your pet immediately after exercise. l Don’t leave your pet in a parked car.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
