CHANDIGARH: The Medical Council of India’s U-turn from its 2012 notification, which considered open school students eligible for getting admission in MBBS courses, has put the future of thousands of Class XII students from Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir at stake.

 In total, there are 2,013 students studying in the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) from Chandigarh and other places. The students had opted for the open board after the prospectus of NIOS assured that they would be eligible for MBBS courses.
 
 Following the notification, everyday around 10 to 12 students helplessly visit and call the Chandigarh Centre of NIOS. Some students told TOI that they wanted to study from NIOS as they did not want to take admission in dummy schools, for they were illegal.
 
 Vivek Kumar, a Sector 10 resident told TOI that he felt helpless. “Two years of my life will be ruined, it seems. My future looks to be in the dark,” Vivek said.
 
 As per the NIOS officials, the move is not only untimely but also unjustified as it could ruin two years of thousands of students. They said that this decision would only motivate dummy culture.
 
 “It is just a qualification test and everyone should be given a chance to appear in it, especially from NIOS as our certificate is equivalent to other boards like CBSE,” said regional director (in-charge) at NIOS RC  . 
 
 “Our students opted for NIOS as they wanted coaching from city-based institutes as they do not have one in their hometown. But they do not wish to take admission in dummy schools. This decision will only add to the dummy culture,” he added.
 
 On January 8, the students studying under NIOS were shocked after receiving the notification from the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET). In its notification,   stated that students under NIOS won’t be eligible to sit in its exam.
 
 “Candidates, who have passed XII from open schools or as private candidates will not be eligible to appear in NEET-UG,” the notification said.
 
 “We are in talks with the health ministry and the ministry of human resource development as this decision is certainly not acceptable. In 2012, the   ( ) through a notification declared that NIOS was eligible and now when the medical aspirants of NIOS are about to complete their class XII and have prepared for NEET and other medical exams, they have been stated to be ineligible. This is completely unjustified and if the decision is not rolled back, it would invite legal course of action. It is about the future of thousands of students,” said director of student support services at NIOS Sunil Kaura.
 
 “It was only after the notification that we had published in our prospectus that NIOS students would be eligible to sit in MBBS courses. The data shows that thousands of NIOS students have cracked the medical eligibility exams before. If the authorities are rigid on taking this decision then a two years’ time should allocated,” Kaura added.
 
 NIOS charges only Rs 1,500 from students for a year and gives 30 compulsory regular classes in schools over the weekends.
 
 
