SHIMLA: Chief minister   Thakur-led BJP government has courted controversy as far as the constitution of project advisory committees for   areas of Lahaul-Spiti,   and Pangi-Bharmaur regions of Chamba district. 

 While the BJP MLAs from Lahaul-Spiti and Pangi-Bharmaur have been appointed as chairman of committees of their respective areas, Congress MLA Jagat Singh Negi has been ignored for the same appointment and in his place deputy commissioner has been appointed as the chairman. Not happy with the decision and alleging discrimination, Negi has threatened to launch an agitation besides moving court and the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes. He said that whenever the chief minister would visit Kinnaur, he would be shown black flags for disrespecting the people of Kinnaur.
 
 These committees for tribal areas have been constituted to oversee the formulations, implementation and monitoring of Integrated Tribal Development Project-level tribal sub-plan and other related welfare schemes. For Lahaul-Spiti, district, agriculture and tribal development minister Ram Lal Markanda has been appointed as chairman and the DC has been appointed as vice-chairman while for Pangi-Bharmaur tribal area, BJP MLA Jiya Lal Kapoor has been appointed as chairman while the DC/resident commissioner/additional deputy commissioner (as the case may be) has been appointed as vice-chairman.
 
 Surprisingly, when it came to constituting these committees for Kinnaur district, the DC has been appointed chairman and Congress MLA Jagat Singh Negi has been appointed as the vice-chairman. “The BJP government has not only discriminated among the MLAs but have also insulted the people of entire Kinnaur district. On which criteria MLAs of Lahaul-Spiti and Pangi-Bharmaur have been appointed chairman and MLA of Kinnaur has been appointed as vice-chairman,” Negi said.
 
 He said that the issue was raised in the state during the budget session and for couple of months the government initially delayed the decision and now have taken an arbitrary and discriminatory decision. “Just because I belong to the Congress, the government made me vice-chairman. We will not keep quiet and will launch agitation against the discrimination,” he added. Negi said that he would not only approach the court on the issue but would also move the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes against the state government. 
 
 
