Nagpur: Eulogising Swatantryaveer   for his untiring and selfless struggle, and sacrifices he made for freeing India from the clutches of Britishers, Lok Sabha speaker Sumitra Mahajan said that his actions showed as if he was born only to serve the motherland. 

 Mahajan was speaking after inaugurating a two-day Swatantryaveer Savarkar Sahitya Sammelan organized by Swatantryaveer Savarkar Smarak Samiti, Nagpur, jointly with Savarkar Darshan Pratishthan, Mumbai and Swatantryaveer Savarkar Rashtriya Smarak, Mumbai, at Sanskrutik Sankul of Vidarbha Sahitya Sangh, on Saturday.
 
 “Savarkar was not only a great patriot but also a writer par excellence. Had he born after India got freedom, he would have been known as one of the most celebrated writers whose pen touched various aspects of life,” Mahajan said.
 
 Mahajan said, “With country’s prosperity top on his mind, Savarkar always asked people to think, talk, write and act for the welfare of the society. It was an irony that Savarkar, who waged a war on the British regime, was not given the recognition he deserved after the country got freedom. But he had no bitterness and such was his magnanimity that he gave credit to everyone who devotedly strove for freeing the country from the foreign rulers.” The Lok Sabha speaker turned emotional when she recited a few poems composed by Savarkar, with tears in eyes.
 
 Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari spoke about the inspirational qualities of Savarkar. No one has sacrificed so much for winning freedom for India as Savarkar. Dedication he had for the nation is incomparable. Happy, rich and free India was his only dream, he added.
 
 “There are many misunderstandings prevalent about Savarkar, his thoughts and Hindutva ideology. Such programmes help in promoting Savarkar’s thoughts and clear doubts, if any. This great person’s thinking needs to be promoted to every nook and corner of the society,” he said.
 
 VS Jog spoke on Savarkar’s writings, his inclination and work for secularism, fight against social discrimination, fundamentalism, superstition and terrorism. He urged to award Savarkar with ‘Bharat Ratna’ before 2019 elections and consider his ‘swatantryache stotra’ as the third national anthem.
 
 A book titled ‘Jayostute’ was also released during the programme.
 
 Union minister of state for home Hansraj Ahir, MP Dr Vikas Mahatme, social worker Kanchan Gadkari, Chandrakant Lakhe, Ajay Kulkarni, Ravindra Sathe, Ranjit Savarkar and Arun Joshi attended the inaugural ceremony.
 
 The two-day celebration will chiefly see discussions on the topics ‘Literary world of Savarkar’, ‘Unification, harmony and Savarkar’, ‘21st century and significance of Savarkar’s thoughts’ and ‘Ashtapailu Yugpurush Savarkar’. 
 
 Mono-act ‘Mi Yesu Boltey’ by Pramod Lambe from Pune to mark the 100th death anniversary of Savarkar’s sister-in-law Yesu will be staged at VSS at 9am on Sunday. Veteran journalist Uday Nirgudkar will speak on ‘Today’s philosophy and Savarkar’ at 9.30. Sadgurudas Maharaj will be conferred with Swatantryaveer Savarkar Gauravmurti award during the valedictory function to be held at 3.30pm.
 
 
