AGARTALA: 'Kok-borok no Indian Constitution ni 8th Schedule wo danani bagwi BJP,   Pradesh, ni bwkhaktwi Sanlaijak kha'. This is the second point on a pamphlet distributed by the saffron party here and roughly translates to: 'Despite being an official language of Tripura,   has been deprived and neglected in decades of Congress and CPM rule and has not grown as expected. The BJP, if voted to power, will work for the inclusion of Kokborok in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution." The battle cry has been sounded, and it has been sounded in Kokborok. 

 Inclusion in the Eighth Schedule would mean that Kokborok would be recognised as an official language of the Republic of India. 
 
 "The CPM has been demanding Eighth Schedule for Kokborok for years. If it was serious, it would've been done a long time ago," said state BJP leaders. The party has put up posters in Kokborok across the city, and Prime Minister  's radio address 'Mann ki Baat' is also available in the language on YouTube.
 
 Kokborok - granted official state language status on January 19, 1979 - is spoken by nine of the major tribes of Tripura. It is the mother-tongue of the Debbarmas, Jamatias, Reangs, Tripuris, Noatias, Kalais, Rupinis, Murasinghs and Uchois. As per the Census 2011, around 9 lakh people use the language as their mother-tongue. This works out to almost 24% of the state's population. Unknown to the world, the language has been at the heart of the state's politics for long.
 
 The demand for tribal self-determination was raised in the 1960s and it was in 1967 that the influential tribal group -   (TUJS, which later became INPT) - sought Kokborok as the medium of instruction for indigenous tribes. Till then, the language had no official sanction as the Maharajas of the Manikya dynasty that ruled the princely state for centuries had adopted Bengali as the official language. Post-partition, as Tripura's demography began changing irreversibly because of the influx of refugees from the then  , Bengali sealed its position as the contentious but unchallenged lingua franca of the state. When the state government decided its official language through the Tripura Official Language Act, 1964, it chose English and Bengali. It was only in 1979, after prolonged campaigns by various tribal groups, including CPM's own tribal wing, that Kokborok was given official sanction.
 
 "One of the first things the government did for tribal welfare was grant official language status to Kokborok. Moreover, a separate directorate of Kokborok and other minority languages was established in 2012," explained an official of the directorate. "Thanks to the government's efforts, Kokborok is being taught up to the university level now. We print Kokborok textbooks for classes IX, X, XI and XII," he added.
 
 Official state language status did not end the debate over Kokborok, however. As the tribal-Bengali divide in the state grew, so did differences over the language's script. Post 1979, the Bengali script began to be used for all government matters pertaining to Kokborok. This angered a large section of tribals who sought Roman script for the language. In 1990, when the Congress-TUJS combine was in power in the state, Roman script was adopted for Kokborok but the decision was reversed in 1995, when the Left Front was in power. Incidentally, the reversal to Bengali script happened under the watch of the state first and only tribal chief minister, Dasaratha Deb.
 
 In Tripura, or Twipra as some would have it, the politics of language has even changed the name of the state. While 'Twipra' in Kokborok refers to the land beside water (the ancient Twipra kingdom is believed to have grown up around the confluence of the Brahmaputra with the Meghna and Surma), the Sanskritised Tripura is taken to refer to the Tripura Sundari, the presiding deity of the eponymous temple in Udaipur. In an election that is as much about identity politics as numbers, Kokborok is a raw nerve.
 
 
