CHANDRAPUR: Cracking the whip,   (MPCB) on Wednesday issued closure notice to Ghugus-based sponge iron plant of M/s   for violation of pollution standards and consent conditions. The management has been ordered to shut the plant within 48 hours.

 In the letter issued to the company, MPCB member-secretary Dr P   has termed the company as habitual defaulter that knowingly and willingly violates the provisions of Air and Water (Prevention and  ) Acts causing serious pollution in the surrounding.
 
 The action comes in the wake of non-compliance of the multiple notices issued by the board and joint inspection carried out by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) and MPCB on January 9, 2018. The joint team had observed various violations of consent conditions and the company too failed to produce documentary evidences towards rectification of the shortcomings pointed out by the board. 
 
 The notice states that failure of company to tar/concretize 800-meter-long road on the factory premises and lack of adequate sprinkling arrangement is causing air pollution. The company has also failed to replace or repair the missing and damaged metal sheet covering of various conveyor belts. Emission from the plant has covered the agriculture fields in the surroundings with thick black dust. It was also found that thick dust has accumulated at various points in the plant, which on becoming airborne is causing pollution. The company also failed to minimize the fugitive emissions from raw material handling area, finished products and various silos discharge, the MPCB noted. 
 
 The company has also not upgraded its electrostatic precipitator (ESP) to 75mg/Nm3 standards. The ambient air quality in the plant has been found exceeding the standards of PM10 parameters. The nullah flowing outside the factory is found full of accumulation of substandard effluent and sludge discharged from plant. The company has also been charged of failing to set up sewage treatment plant.
 
 In the light of all these lapses, MPCB’s Chandrapur regional office had submitted a proposal to the head office seeking action against the plant and the higher-ups responded with the issuance of the closure notice.
 
 
