PANAJI: A fortnight after Goa police directed police inspectors (PIs) to identify personnel who consume alcohol, many PIs are utterly confused as to what procedure to follow to identify them.

 
 Sources in the force told TOI that since most cops may deny that they drink, inspectors have no clue how to classify a ‘police personnel who drinks alcohol’.
 
 One PI, speaking to TOI on condition of anonymity, expressed apprehensions that most police personnel would come under the ‘drinkers’ category, as most of them consume alcohol after their shifts. Another inspector, from  , said that there hardly are police personnel who drink on duty. However, he did admit that some old hands in the force do drink and report to work.
 
 Meanwhile on the coastal belt, a PI told TOI that there are one of two police personnel in practically every police station who skip duty and go out drinking. Another said that there was one such case, but that he referred the errant cop to a doctor, and a month after that, he quit.
 
 The police effort to identify drinkers in the force comes after inspector general of police ( ) Jaspal   wrote to all superintendents of police (SPs) to direct inspectors in their jurisdiction to identify such personnel and submit a list. If necessary, the force would intervene.
 
 The IGP’s letter followed the alcohol-related death of a Bicholim policeman.
 
 ‘Drunk policemen tarnish force’s image’
 
 However, Singh had said that there is nothing to suggest that Goa’s cops are addictedto alcohol.“Wehave to find out whether there is a serious problem or if this was an isolated incident,” Singh wrote.
 
 In his letter, Singh had said that police is an emergency service and personnel have to interface with the public day and night. He added that a drunk policeman presents a ‘pathetic’ scenario and tarnishes the image of theforce. Stressing on the needtoidentify drinking police personnel, Singh said that a counselling programme may be devised to help them.
 
 He further stressed that SPs should emphasise that police personnel should desist from consuming alcohol while on duty and also make them aware of the bad effects of excessive drinking.
 
