A prolific producer in Hollywood,   remains a true-blue Chennaiite at heart. In fact, he attributes the values he learnt during his formative years, growing up in the city in the 1960s-70s, for the successes he has had as a professional tennis player, an independent producer in   and a UN goodwill ambassador. For the first time ever, in an exclusive interview with Chennai Times, Amritraj and his family (daughter Priya, wife Chitra, and son Milan) speak about what their roots mean to them.

 Growing up in Chennai, during the 60s and 70s, was quite different, begins Amritraj. “The city was Madras! But I was lucky to have wonderful parents. A lot of the lessons that my brothers and I learnt were at the dinner table. My mother was running a business, which was very unusual for a woman in those days. From the garage of our house, she built a very successful company, of which she was the sole proprietor. I learnt many of my business lessons from my mom,” he says. He recalls one such lesson that stays in his mind. “She used to manufacture cardboard boxes and my dad was the general manager in  . The boxes used to go by train to be delivered to clients. One evening, at dinner, I remember my mother telling my dad to stop a train carrying the boxes because the client hadn’t paid yet. It was an interesting lesson on leverage and partnership, for me,” he laughs.
 
 He says that every time he visits the city, he is flooded with great memories, like watching films as a seven-year-old in the now-extinct Safire theatre. “My journey in films started here, watching The Sound Of Music 34 times in Safire. So, my love for movies started out in Chennai,” he says.
 
 The period in which he grew up also mattered, he feels. “The internet didn’t exist then, so everything that you learnt was from within your family and within your city. You weren’t learning from the west or from the other parts of Asia, unlike today. In fact, for kids who are growing up now, it is not as easy as it was for me. It’s become more complicated today as you have to curate all the information — some good, some bad — coming in at you. In my time, it was simpler. My mother told me to go play tennis and I went and played tennis. Then, she’d say, ‘Go do your homework’ or ‘Go to school’ and I’d do those. The most you would do on your own was listen to the radio or later, watch Doordarshan. When I look back, I think I was much happier growing up in that environment, where the values were passed on directly, with the parents teaching the children,” he elaborates.
 
 Amritraj believes that those traits that one imbibes during their formative years stays with them and as they grow older, even comeback stronger. “All of my character traits, I’d say, were formed in Chennai, during that first 16 years,” he quips. And now, he admits that a lot of what he tells his kids is what was passed down from his parents. “My kids are a very good blend of east and west. We have great values, traditions and cultures and there is a lot to learn from the west as well,” he says, but admits that living in Los Angeles comes with its own set of challenges. “In LA, it is difficult because there are a lot of outside influences, and the movie business is even more difficult. There are a lot of unreal things going on all the time and you are living in a sort of a fantasy world — a bubble. So, it is very important to have your feet on the ground. The kids do it for us, and hopefully, we do it for them,” he adds.
 
 The fact that both he and his wife, Chitra, had similar backgrounds made it easy for them, Ashok feels. “Ours was an arranged marriage, but we lived just 10 minutes apart. I went to Don Bosco, while Chitra went to Church Park and then to law college. We were lucky that we were from the same city, and with similar background as it became easy for us to agree on how to bring up the kids,” he says.
 
 Chitra agrees, “Both our parents are from similar backgrounds, so the value system is very much Chennai or Tamil Nadu. It also depends on the groups you move in, and you tend to get attracted to people with similar value systems as yours. And being there for them all the time makes a difference. Even though Ashok travels a lot, we make sure that we are there when they need them.”
 
 The family goes on at least two trips a year together. “We love travelling as a family. During this period, he takes time from business, and we usually go to some place in Europe. This time, it was Udaipur. The kids haven’t seen any other part of India, as it has always been ‘Come to Chennai, spend time with the grandparents, leave to the US’ kind of trips for them. So, we went to Delhi and Udaipur this time, and they really enjoyed it, seeing a different side of the country,” Chitra reveals.
 While their children do understand Tamil, they don’t speak the language fluently, she says. “In fact, if we want to talk in private, Ashok and I end up talking in Tamil. When they were younger, we used to come here every summer, for eight weeks. But once they became busy with school and college, it was hard to take off just like that and come here. Still, they speak a little bit more Tamil whenever they go to the US from Chennai,” she says.
 
 Their 19-year-old son, Milan, is currently doing his sophomore year in a business school. But Milan says that he might not necessarily enter the movie industry. “I’m not too interested in the creative part of it, but maybe one day, I might get involved with the business side, like financing, rather than taking up movie production. But my dad has been a huge inspiration in taking business as a career path,” he says.
 
 Unlike Milan, his sister, Priya, informs that she has always been interested in movies, right from a young age. Perhaps that explains why she has now ended up working in her father’s production house. “Milan probably got all the business side of things while I got the creative side from our father,” says Priya, who is now developing a female-centric project for their company. “It’s about Julia Morgan, one of the first female architects in the United States, her relationship with the late newspaper baron William Randolph Hearst, and how she built the Hearst Castle (which is now a National Historic Landmark) for him. I think I tend to push him towards female-centric projects,” she smiles.
 
 Priya says that watching her father work in itself is a learning experience. “I came in not knowing anything about this industry, but I watch him and imbibe. I ask him like 20 questions a day, but he always answers them,” she says on what it feels to be working alongside her dad. She also says she would love to collaborate with Indian filmmakers. “There are a lot of really amazing filmmakers here who I want to work with. Now, films are a global business, and it is important to integrate different perspectives,” she points out.
 
 In Chennai, they have been to the Marina Beach, and often visit the Madras Club, as their parents are members there. They have also seen Loyola College, Don Bosco and Church Park, the places where their parents studied. “It’s very different from LA. The culture is quite different, but people are nice here. And it’s kind of inspiring to be able to see your parents’ schools,” says Priya, while Ashok adds, “I think one of the most important things that kids who are growing up abroad should do is to come back and visit the hometown of their parents.” 
 
