MUMBAI: The Sikh community felicitated eight role models from the community at an annual Sikh Achievers’ Awards at Shanmukhananda Hall on Sunday.

 Puran Singh Banga, secretary of the organizer,  , said, “Filmmaker Tinu Desai arrived and praised the effort. He is making a film on Jaswant Singh Gill, an engineer from Amritsar who saved 65 miners from certain death in a coal mine at Dhanbad.” Gill was among the winners.
 
 The curriculum vitae were all impressive. Dubai businessman S P Singh Oberoi has invested nearly five million dollars in saving 58 Indians from death row and life imprisonment, and repatriating 800 prisoners who have served their sentence in the UAE.
 
 Bibi Rajinder Kaur runs the Prabh Aasra series of shelters for destitutes in North India while millionaire   returned from the UK to start the   to educate Punjab’s youth. Kamaljit Singh Bakshi arrived all the way from New Zealand where he is the first Sikh parliamentarian. Amarjeet Singh Sudan helps cremate unclaimed bodies and help mentally challenged destitutes reach shelters.
 
 Twenty-six-year-old Jagwinder Singh from Patiala was born without arms but is now a champion cyclist with national awards to his credit. He even paints and cooks food using his feet.
 
 Jagwinder said, “My journey to success is fuelled by zidd (stubbornness). My parents refused to buy me a bicycle as a schoolboy for how would I ride without hands. They bought one for my sister saying she could carry my bag and I could walk to school. But she was afraid of riding and I wasn’t. I said to her, suffer a few bruises, they will heal. But learn to ride.”
 
 His trials on that bicycle saw Jagwinder grow into a national champion paracyclist and award-winning athlete in various disciplines.
 
 Another remarkable story is that of 79-year-old Sardar Gurmej Singh of Amritsar who turned blind after suffering small pox at age eight. He went on to transliterate the Guru Granth Sahib in Braille and the Sukhmani Sahab thereafter.
 
 Singh said, “It is the Guru’s meher (grace) that guides my hand. I was fortunate to be trained as a kirtankar and raagi, and to learn Braille, as a child. We now have 18 Braille volumes of the Granth Sahib in our Central Library in Amritsar. We have installed a Braille printing machine purchased from Switzerland.”
 
 Sardar Gurmej Singh has travelled the world in his mission. His sons are normal sighted and serve in the Golden Temple.
 
 
