CHANDIGARH: A day after the Central Board of Secondary Education ( ) announced the retest of Class X Mathematics board examination of government and private schools in the state of New Delhi, NCR and Haryana, a sense of dissatisfaction among the Tricity students studying in Panchkula has started rooting. 

 The CBSE, escalating the stir, indicated towards holding the retest in the month of July which is late and will directly impact the admission of these Students to Class XI, according to parents and teachers.
 
 Expressing their frustration against the decision to TOI, a large number of Class X students of schools across Panchkula and Chandimandir touted it to be unfair.
 
 Kunal Garg, a Class X student of  , said, “We are confused as to what to do now. We don’t know why the CBSE board is doing this. We are unsure as to study Maths or do away with it. We have been forced to alter our family plans due to this move. It has taken a toll on our personal lives.”
 
 Paras, another Class X student from Panchkula, said, “CBSE has not done justice. The board should either conduct the examination in the whole country or do away with this idea. They have no right to put a selected bunch of students through this ordeal. Moreover, if they conduct the exam in July, when will our result be declared? We would not get admissions in Class XI anywhere.”
 
 On one hand, the CBSE’s decision has left the Class X students baffled across Panchkula and Chandimandir, numerous parents and teachers have also come to the fore with pressing issues about the immediate future of their ward.
 
 Sanjeev Garg, father of a Class X student from Panchkula, said, “My son is depressed. He keeps telling me that the exam went well. But, the possibility of retest has left him worried. Moreover, after CBSE’s announcement of holding the exam only in Haryana, NCR and Delhi region has created problem and is unfair to our children. He feels at a loss in comparison to his friends studying in Chandigarh schools. The CBSE should give a thought considering outcome before taking any decision.”
 
 Chandrashekhar, another parent of a Panchkula-based student, said, “This is completely unacceptable. My daughter has become depressed after hearing the news. How can they (CBSE) assume that the paper was leaked from Haryana and Delhi?”
 
 Apart from criticizing CBSE, the teachers highlighted that the test being conducted in July will impact the process of admissions for the Class X students.
 
 “The students are disturbed and I have been getting numerous calls and messages throughout the day. How can exempt Chandigarh and Mohali students and leave the Panchkula students at crossroads? If the paper has been leaked, then the students from Chandigarh and Mohali also might have known about it. The technology is fast these days. The exam should be conducted in April itself. The delay will directly affect Class XI admissions of school and their preparation for competitive examinations,” said  , a Sanskrit teacher at Hallmark Public School, Panchkula.
 
 Sanskrit being the next examination, Sharma also complained about students not being able to concentrate on the preparation of the exam as well.
 
 Rajkumar, Mathematics teacher at Army Public School, said, “The proposal of conducting the exam again should be dropped, because it is unfair. Even if the paper was leaked, it is the fault of the authorities and not the students and there is no way they can justify this.”
 
 The teachers also expressed that students have been speculating that the retest will be tougher tougher than the previous exam.
 
 “Many students were hoping for a good result. But now, they are terrified. They are apprehensive that they might face an unrealistically tough exam,” added another teacher.
 
 
