CHANDIGARH: Even as city-based industrialists are reeling under high power rates, the UT   has been dragging its feet for eight years over the introduction of time-of-day (TOD) tariff system under which consumers have to pay less for consumption of power during non-peak hours.

 
 The   (JERC) on July 22, 2011, had directed the power department to launch the facility by installing TOD meters to record the energy consumed and the time at which it was consumed.
 
 
 Under the system, the peak-hour tariff would be up to 20% higher than the normal tariff, while the off-peak tariff would be 10% lower than the normal tariff. The department would have to notify users about peak and off-peak hours during summer, winter and monsoon.
 
 
 The administration had set up phases I and II of the Industrial Area on land measuring 147 acres. Both the phases were allotted between 1973 and 1982.
 
 
 The industrial power tariff in Chandigarh is considerably higher as compared to neighbouring Punjab. An industrial unit in the city shells out around Rs 10 per unit, including other charges. The   recently had reduced the power tariff to Rs 5 per unit, further blunting competitive edge of the city-based industrialists.
 
 
 Industrialists from past couple of years have been pressing for introduction of the system as it will help them in bringing down their power cost.
 
 
 Naveen Manglani, president,   (CCI), said the TOD system will help them in cutting down on power cost by running their operations during off-peak and normal hours. He further said the power department has been depriving them of a facility which will help in cutting down on power cost.
 
 
 The department has failed despite being repeatedly pulled up by the commission. In an order passed on May 4 last year, the commission had expressed displeasure over non-submission of the status of the action plan for installation of TOD meters. Unhappy with the delay, it directed the department to submit the plan to roll out TOD metering within a month and further non-compliance would be viewed seriously. No action has been taken till date.
 
 
 Giving reasons for non-compliance of the direction, UT superintending engineer M P Singh said the system cannot be introduced without smart meter and they are in process of procuring them. He further said they required more time to introduce the TOD system.
 
