LUCKNOW: Even as people at the accident site grappled with the tragedy, a controversy broke out as UP chief minister   reached the spot and asked locals, who squatted on the railway tracks in protest, to stop the “nautanki.”

 Angry crowds had gathered soon after the accident, blocking roads and squatting on railway tracks, demanding a manned crossing. They continued to raise slogans even as Yogi began addressing them using a hand held microphone.
 
 “Yeh dukhad ghatna hai … yeh naarebazi band kar dein. Abhi bhi main bol raha hoon. Iss baat ko note kar lo. Nautanki band karo. Yeh dukhad ghatna hai…Raasta khali kar dein. Bheed mein main muayena nahin kar sakta … Iss samasya ka samadhan hamein mil kar nikaalna padega. Iss samay faltu ki naarebazi aur netagiri karne ke bajaye, samasya ke samadhan ki taraf hum log badhein (This is a tragic incident. Stop sloganeering in this moment of grief. Take note. Stop this drama. Clear the way or I cannot conduct an inspection. We have to work together to find a solution to this problem. Instead of doing this pointless sloganeering and politics at this point, we should work towards a solution),” he said.
 
 
 
 
 The CM was on his way to visit the injured children in the hospital when he found himself surrounded by slogan-shouting protesters.
 
 While the Opposition hit out at the CM, calling his remarks “highly insensitive”, the state government claimed that the remarks were directed at people shouting slogans and blocking the CM’s way who wanted to inspect the site.
 
 UP principal secretary (information) Awanish Awasthi said that some people were disrupting the CM’s speech and the remarks were directed at them.
 
 Media advisor to the CM, Mrityunjay Kumar said: “There was one person wearing a red cap, representing  , who was shouting slogans. This prompted the CM to say that an incident like this should not be politicized. He had issued a statement expressing his anguish and condolence. He wanted to meet the aggrieved families personally, so it is obvious that his remarks were not directed at them.” CM Yogi, who was scheduled to reach Amroha for an event at 11am, had rescheduled his programme to visit Kushinagar first.
 
 The Opposition however, went on the offensive.   spokesperson Randeep Surjewala asked for CM’s resignation for his ‘shameful comments’. “The children died due to government’s negligence and parents were crying in grief. But an egoistic CM insulted them. He called the pain of the parents drama,” said Surjewala.
 
 SP chief spokesperson   said, “People have lost their children but the government is not even allowing them to vent their agony.”   MP   said the CM should come out of his ‘maharaj phase’, shed his pride and behave as an elected public representative.
 
