PATNA: Traders expect a rise in the demand for organic colours and herbal gulal this  .

 With pre-Holi bash already being organised by few organisations, the sale of colours and Holi accessories has begun. “At least five of my customers every day ask for organic colours,” said Pankaj Kumar, a retailer in Kadamkuan area, on Saturday.
 
 Pankaj has already stocked gulal and colours prepared with arrowroot. “I also have sandalwood paste, available in a box priced at Rs 25, with which people apply a traditional tika on the forehead instead of smearing the face with gulal as part of Holi celebrations,” he said and added also on sale at his shop was ‘gulal cracker’, a new product which sprays gulal. It is priced in the range of Rs 50 to Rs 200.
 
 Herbal gulal is selling in packets costing between Rs 15 to Rs 80, whereas organic water-soluble colours are available in the city markets for anything between Rs 20 and Rs 80.
 
 As of now, however, the market is dull. “People aren’t buying colours as they used to in the run-up to Holi,” said another trader.
 
 Wholesaler S K Singh, who has stocked only chemical preparations of colour in his shop, plans to order supply of organic colours owing to their demand. “Arrowroot-based gulal doesn’t cause any harm to the skin,” Singh said and admitted the market appeared to be dull this year.
 
 Neeraj Kumar Bharti, who has his shop at  , attributed the sale of chemical colours to the fact they are cheaper than organic colours. “Also, many customers do not know about the organic colours,” said Bharti.
 
 Khushboo Singh of Alamganj recalled she had an allergic reaction to green gulal in Holi last year. “My skin turned red and itched constantly... I had to consult a doctor,” the woman in her 20s said and added she would not allow anyone to play Holi with her this year if s/he did not have herbal colour.
 
 Shalini Jhunjhunwala, who owns a boutique at  , prepares homemade gifts meant for exchange in Holi. “My gift packets contain sweets and organic colours in pots,” she said and added she had already received orders from 35 customers so far.
 
 
