Days before the release of their next '
 ' – a film about four friends and their journey – real-life veeres,   and  , share how they unexpectedly became friends on the sets of 'Raanjhanaa', the bond they have with each other’s parents and anecdotes from their six-year friendship.

 
 
 Swara tells Sonam that she won her heart when the two were shooting for 'Raanjhanaa'. However, she has a little trouble recollecting the exact moment when it happened...
 
 
 
  In 'Raanjhanaa'... I am losing my memory, guys. I have selective memory. 
 
  What did we do on 'Raanjhanaa'?
 
  You won my heart when you came to take me to your vanity... Mujhe lagta tha ki yeh ladki mujhe apna diva side dikhayegi, but aisa kabhi hua nahi.
 
  But I can be a diva.
 
  Not to me.
 
  I can be a diva in life, in general, to everybody. 
 
  Really? To Anand also?
 
  Yaaa!
 
 Like you are doing right now. You are making him wait downstairs (Anand was waiting for her downstairs).
 
  This toh every wife can do!
 
  Yeah, that’s true.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 She can’t remember when I won her heart... It can’t be memorable at all. I will tell you when Swara Bhasker won my heart. I think this was that day during 'Raanjhanaa' only. The light had gone in her vanity and we both had to get ready, that was the first time when I met you, Swara. I had barely met you before that. 
 
  We just said hi to each other.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  Obviously, I am like a… 
 
  I wasn’t snooty!
 
  I am saying obviously I was not. I thought you would be snootier, but you were not. And that is how you won my heart.
 
  Achha, thanks. Meri story ko leke apni story bana di. Basically, what happened was, somebody came to me and asked is it okay if Swara uses the other side of your vanity because the light had gone. I said, of course, she can come and use it. It is not a big deal. But they had not asked her if she was okay to use my vanity, and the production person came back and told me that Swara says that she can’t use it, Sonam, because she is feeling uncomfortable. So I said, I’ll go and ask her. 
 
  I did not want to invade her personal space. 
 
  And people usually do not behave like that. I have worked with other actresses and they are… besharam, and she was not. I thought that was very classy or whatever, saying that I’ll use my vanity when the light will come back.
 
  And then her manager came. I said, no, it is okay. We have opened the door, we’ll do it here. After ten minutes, Sonam comes... with rollers in her hair, and says, ‘Swara, ya, just come na’. I was shocked. I was like, wow. Then she dragged me to her gaadi. 
 
 And then she came and sat like she was punished, she was very awkward. But that’s how we became friends and then she wouldn’t stop talking.
 
 Excuse me, what about you? I don’t know how we became friends
 
 That’s how we became friends, chilling on set. Otherwise I am a very guarded person 
 
 Really? I did not know that, because I never felt that you were guarded. 
 
  I am very guarded.
 
  You are pretty chill.
 
  How many friends do I have?
 
  Lots, Sonam. Did you just see your sangeet?
 
  Those were half my dad’s friends. 
 
  There was almost a stampede on her sangeet because of the number of friends and cousins that were dancing. More than forty people in each song. They were banging into each other!
 
  
  
 
 
 
  We are two opposites. I am the upstart and she is the star child. 
 
  According to Swara, I am her only friend, na?
 
 Yeah, in the film industry. And I think soon going to be the only friend in my life. 
 
  What rubbish.
 
 
 
 
 The story is that we were doing promotions for 'Prem Ratan Dhan Payo'. And we had to go for 'Bigg Boss' and that shoot was running late. We had not met Salman sir because he does not come into the house. So when we finished, we were waiting to meet him, and it got late because he had some other meetings. The Bigg Boss house is in Lonavala.
 
  And I had come from Delhi and my staff had been awake for 20 hours.
 
 Sonam happily sent all her staff back and was like, ‘Haan main Swara ki gaadi mein jaungi.’ 
 
  I had asked you, Swara, will you drop me?
 
  But I did not know that she was letting all her staff go. And we did not realise that it would be so late. It was 1:30 in the morning when we left. Sonam had sent all her staff back including her security. Now my car is okay, but it is just me and my driver. We come out of the Bigg Boss house, and some 30 bikes, young boys, ‘woo-woo’ karke, they started tailing the car. And the guys sitting pillion start flashing their phone lights inside the car – ‘Oye, Sonam Kapoor, Sonam Kapoor’. And I am like, Sonam, where is your security? She was like, babe, they have left, they had not slept. And I was like (laughs) Sonam, your father is going to kill me. Your mother is going to kill me if they realize… and I am worried because it is 1:30 at night, what if... we are a good two hours from Mumbai... And Sonam is like, it is okay, nothing will happen. 
 
  Nothing happened.
 
  But they chased us for like five-six kilometers and they were very invasive. I don’t have those covers and all in my car. They were flashing the lights to get a glimpse of her, and I was like, oh my god! Then I realised this girl is worse than me 
 
  I knew nothing was going to happen, and secondly, I did not expect it.
 
  Anyway, please don’t do this with me again. I am always afraid that her parents are going to ban my entry into her home one of these days.
 
  What rubbish! You know my mother loves you, my father is just fascinated by you. I think our parents, at least my parents, love her. Her parents also really love me.
 
  Yeah, my parents are very fond of her. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 My father – when he met her for the first time – I introduced him to her, he had come on 'Raanjhanaa’s' sets, we were shooting in Delhi. And I introduced him. My dad does not watch a lot of films but he knows all the goss, he reads the newspapers, even the magazine sections. He is like, ‘Sonam knows a lot about fashion, so I will ask her to design a bandhgala for me’. I was like, no dad, no way! And he was like, ‘I will ask her to give me extra pockets on top, I like extra pockets on top’. I was like, no. She really can’t. But my dad is chill. In fact, Sonam came and announced in front of my father that she was getting married like 1.5 years ago. 
 
  Yeah, last year, when I got engaged. 
 
  And then she is telling him, ‘Uncle, actually I never went to college, I am a 12th pass’. Because he was talking about how he went to NDA when he was 15 years old, so technically, he is not a graduate, and she said, me also. 
 
 Yeah, but you didn’t want me to talk to your father, you asked him to leave the room! 
 
 ANAND'S FAMILY DOESN'T WANT ATTENTION: SONAM
 
 
 
  See, my mother is a very private person. I don’t think you’ll ever see her picture or anything. So I have that from her. You know, she never wanted to be a star wife where she was taken pictures of or was on a magazine or any of those things. She was very clear that she didn’t want to be famous. And my mother’s side of the family is like that. And they all are professionals... My mother and father, they come from a very middle-class background and that’s the upbringing that I have got. My mother’s family... they don’t like 'show-sha', that kind of attention on themselves, because it is not something that they value. And it is similar with Anand’s family. I respect that privacy and I respect that space and I don’t want undue attention on that because they haven’t signed up for it. I signed up for it as an actor. 
 
 
 
 
  Yeah, but their pictures were not out, except for Anand’s. They don’t want to be seen. Anand is fine. He is okay with getting pictures taken of him, but at the same time... he is neutral. I think that is the best way to describe my husband, he is very neutral. He is not excited by the attention, nor is he offended by it. He is okay with anything. He does not get upset that why is there this attention, nor is he excited saying that I want the attention. He is like, ‘Ok, if this is the way it is, then this is the way it is’. I think that’s a fantastic attitude. 
 
 
 --As told to Anshul.Chaturvedi@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
