Chennai:With just over a week left for the May 25 deadline for Indian corporates to comply with the EU based data privacy regulations or GDPR, companies are rushing for insurance cover against any risks that might arise from the impending regulation.  The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) requires businesses to protect personal data and privacy of EU citizens for transactions that occur within EU member states. Simply said, any company handling EU user data will have to comply by the regulation. A failure will result in hefty penalties as high as 20 million or 4% of the global turnover of the company. “In the last 6 months, we have a 20-30% increase in companies coming in looking for coverage around data breaches and protection. Close to 10% can be attributed to GDPR specific concerns. Data security and upkeep has become an all pervasive concern across the globe today,” said Sanjay Datta, chief - underwriting and claims, ICICI Lombard General Insurance.  From cyber insurance to directors and officers (D&O) liability insurance and general indemnity, corporates are looking to cover the cost involved with data breaches, the forensic investigation that follows and other costs. Jaspreet Singh, partner, cyber security, EY says corporates are running againt the clock.  “Companies don’t realise that this is not just an IT issue. One needs to look at legal aspects. If there is a breach and your company is at the centre of it, you will be pulled up,” said Singh. “The GDPR regulation is on top of clients’ mind when they discuss renewal of the policies. Many have a contractual stipulation with EU clients to be insured and they are considering the same will raising their coverage for the year,” said Sasikumar Adidamu, chief technical officer, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance.  SaaS startup Chargebee had an overall increase in their cover when they renewed their policy earlier this year. “GDPR was a consideration and which is why the intent was to make our data breach coverage more holistic and comprehensive,” said Krish Subramanian, cofounder, Chargebee.  The company is looking at 3x increase in the cover limit before May 25th.  Many like Chargebee are waiting to take a final call closer to the date. Vaidyanath B, underwriting manager-casualty at SBI General Insurance foresees an increasing number of business houses looking to limit their exposure to any GDPR related default. The company intends to launch its cyber insurance product later this year.