Success is believed to have a 3-D effect, with discipline, dedication and determination being its primary factors. In case of La Roja, there is one thing more: El Estilo - the style or flair.

 
 
 
 An underachiever in international football for long, Spain’s rise like the Phoenix and dazzling domination in the past decade has not just been limited to winning two European championships and a World Cup, but it also came as a tale of transcendence and a fable of fantasy.
 
 
 
 For many, they have been the modern version of Pele’s Brazil in 1970 or Puskas’ ‘Magical Magyars’ Hungary in 1954, a team that captured the imagination of world football as much for its devastating domination as its sublime style.
 
 What kickstarted Spain’s emergence from wilderness with the triumph of Euro 2008 under Luis Aragones, his successor Vincent del Bosque took it to its logical conclusion two years later - winning their maiden World Cup crown and leading to their coronation as the new kings of world football. Del Bosque’s side then went on to seal their place in history by winning the next European championships in 2012, blowing away Italy 4-0 in the final and becoming the first side to win three major tournaments in a row.
 
  
  
 
 But just as all good things come to an end, the La Roja rule came crashing down.   saw their dream of defending the World Cup in 2014 disappear in just two games following opening losses to the Dutch and Chile. Their reign finally came full circle when they also failed to protect their European title in 2016, leading to Del Bosque’s exit and the arrival of an unheralded   at the helm.
 
 A reserve goalkeeper for Spain at the 1994 World Cup and largely untested in a major coaching role, Lopetegui stepped into a tricky situation, facing the huge challenge of revamping Del Bosque’s ageing squad and ushering in another Spanish era. If a good beginning is any indication, Lopetegui has shown promise of regaining the lost glory.
 
 It is to his credit that Spain now look competitive again, having been on an 18-match unbeaten run and heading to Russia as title contenders once more. His seems to have restored a positive and powerful mindset in the side, finding a right balance of remaining members of its golden generation - Iniesta, Sergio Ramos and David Silva - with upcoming youngsters like Francisco ‘Isco’ Alarcon and Marco Asensio.
 
 Lopetegui’s elevation from the national youth team coach to the dug-out of La Roja also appears to have embraced winds of change in more than one way. Spain’s rule from 2008 to 2012 coincided with the emergence of Barcelona under Pep Guardiola as the most dominant side in both La Liga and Champions League. Although a former Madridista, Del Bosque had found it natural to imbibe the system which worked so well at club level for Guardiola’s Barcelona.
 
 That seven of Spain’s starting XI in the 2010 World Cup final were from Barcelona and six starting Barca players figured in the Euro 2012 title-clash confirmed the influence of ‘tiki-taka’ football on La Roja’s unprecedented success and how Del Bosque made best use of the Guardiola’s system. However, the Barca core of the team has aged and haven’t be replaced by the next generation from their famed La Masia academy.
 
 In contrast, Real Madrid’s recent success in Europe has also brought to the fore their focus on scouting young players and through their own academy.
 
 At a time when questions swirl around whether La Masia’s talent supply is running dry, Real Madrid have become a winning side infused with the best young talent of Spain. Who can be the midfield master with the ability of pulling all the strings? Isco. Who is the man best suited to lead the front line? Alvaro Morata. Who is the midfielder ready to step into Xavi’s shoes? Marco Asensio.
 
 They are all Real players, replacing the core of Del Bosque’s side and shining brightly under Lopetegui.
 
 There are still hallmarks of the Barca style in Spain’s play, but Lopetegui has made it faster and more direct, perhaps insinuating that the new core of La Roja has shifted base from   to the Bernabeu.
 
 However, Lopetegui also has another major issue to deal with. The Catalan referendum, seeking independence from Spain, has placed some uncomfortable questions over Barcelona’s association with La Liga. An advocate of Catalan independence, Barcelona defender Pique had exercised his voting right, drawing strong reaction from the rest of the country, as the October 1 referendum was subsequently declared illegal by the Spanish government. Even though it was an individual exercising his right, the Barcelona defender’s act threatened to split the team unity right down the middle.
 
 Amid these deep-rooted suspicions between the Castilians and the Catalans, Lopetegui has asked everyone to ‘turn the page’ on this incident and move on. No wonder, he has a more challenging job on hand: Reinstating Spain as the ruler of world football. And for that mission to accomplish, he needs Pique’s experience as much as Isco’s exuberance.
 
 Russia had been a land of revolutions. Lopetegui and his new-look La Roja will head to that country dreaming of starting another football revolution.
 
