NEW DELHI: Four city students have secured their place among the worldwide top performers of   Assessment International Education (CAIE), a school-level board run by Cambridge University. 

 Another student from Noida is also among 26 Indian students who are part of the worldwide list for the November 2016-June 2017 period.
  
  
 Delhi’s DPS International has the maximum number of top scorers at both secondary and senior secondary levels across India, with 11 students bagging Cambridge Outstanding Learner Awards.
 
 The international board has also been growing at a fast pace in India over the past five years. Ruchira Ghosh, the regional director (India and south Asia) of CAIE, told TOI, “Every five years, we have doubled our entries. But there has been a hike of 150% from 2013. We had 40,000 students in 2013, which has increased to 65,000 in 2017.” 
 
 The board, which used to have more takers in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, has widened its reach in north India, especially in two-tier towns, over the past two-three years, said Ghosh. 
 
 One of the reasons behind the growth is the alignment of the international examination with the Indian exam cycle, Ghosh pointed out. While students across the world sit for their exams only in summer and winter, an exam is held in India in March, too. “Over the years, we have expanded the March series and now we will be running all three exam series — March, June and November — for India.” 
 
 Of the 15 worldwide top scorers in maths, six are from India, including the four from Delhi. This is no surprise, said Ghosh. “Traditionally maths has been strong in our country. There has been a focus on maths as a subject at the higher secondary level, and also in many university subjects.” 
 
 Niharika Gupta of DPS International School, Saket — a world topper for   at AS level (Class XI-equivalent) — said maths was always her favourite subject though she was never the top scorer in the middle school. “Before this achievement, I never scored full marks,” she said. 
 
 Ghosh said students were also scoring high in arts and other subjects like social sciences and Hinduism. 
 
 The schools have been asked to implement qualitative steps. “A periodic school review visit is also in place to maintain teaching and learning standards. Training provisions have been made for teachers while the focus is on themes and new paedagogy,” she said. 
 
 The top scorers in three categories — top in the world, top in the country and the best across — were awarded on Friday.
 
 
