LUCKNOW: In a gruesome act, a man killed a six-year-old girl because he suspected that her father had abducted his adult daughter. 

 The girl's body was found suspended from a tree in the thickets of   village on Sunday. She was dressed in her school uniform. 
 
 The accused, a mason, was arrested on Sunday along with his wife and 17-year-old daughter for murdering the minor who had gone missing from her house four days ago.
 
 The incident has led to massive upheaval among residents of the village in Maal off   temple road. 
 
 Police had detained the suspected couple soon after the girl had disappeared, but allowed them to go.
 
 The accused,   and wife  , share a rented house with the victim's parents in   colony of Madiaon. The deceased's father,  , is also a mason. 
 
 Both families used to squabble a lot
 
 Brijesh and Asha have two daughters, aged 17 and 19 while Ashu and his wife had one six-year-old girl. Both families squabbled a lot. Often, local residents had to broker peace between them. Matters turned worse in February after Brijesh’s elder daughter went missing. Brijesh lodged an FIR at Madiaon police station against Ashu, accusing him of abducting her.
 
 However, she was traced a few days later and the case closed as she said she had left home on her own because her father hit her.
 
 “On March10, the19-yearold left home again. The two masons fought again and Brijesh threatened to abduct Ashu’s daughter,” said SSP Deepak Kumar.
 
 On March 15, Ashu’s daughter left home to attend school but did not come back. A hunt was launched and Ashu approached Madiaon police. The next day, an FIR was lodged and Ashu named Brijesh and his wife Asha for abducting his daughter.
 
 Police questioned the couple but they feigned ignorance and were allowed to go.
 
 Two days later, some locals spotted the body suspended from a tree in Kolwa Bhanaura village thickets. On identifying her as their daughter, Ashu and his wife were inconsolable. The decomposed body was sent for autopsy.
 
 When Brijesh was interrogated, he confessed to his crime. To rule out foul play, the body will be examined.
 
 “Brijesh is an aggressive man. His daughter who fled home had told police that he often hit her,” said Kumar, who added that the 19-yearold was still untraceable.
 
 Kumar suspended duty officer sub-inspector Veerpal, who had turned the couple away on March 15. Subinspector Amarnath, who questioned the couple but could not crack the case, was sent to police lines. Both officers from Madiaon police station were taken to task after an inquiry by the DySP.
 
 
 
