Nagpur: In an era where aesthetics play a very important role in everyone’s lives, packaging and   is everything a pre-packed product needs for a good sell-out. Keeping the same in focus, the agro and food processing forum (AFPF) of Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA) organized a one-day workshop on ‘Pre-packed products labelling and mandatory declarations on label and e-commerce under Legal Metrology and Food Safety Act’ at   Hall on Wednesday. Subhash Shete, expert legal adviser and founder of Legal Fundda was the keynote speaker.

 Shete began his session by calling label the face of pre-packaged products. “A label helps the customer to identify the product of their choice. Statutory declarations printed on the label guide the consumer to select the product as per his needs. It is the legal duty of the manufacturer to disclose all mandatory information on the label and failing to do so will lead to misbranding and conveyance of incorrect information which is a punishable offence,” he said.
 
 He further informed the attendees about the Legal Metrology and Food Safety Act thereby detailing them about guidelines on the manner and mode of making all the declarations on the label. “In-depth knowledge of labelling guidelines and strict compliance of the same will help minimize legal risks. Unawareness of law is not a legal excuse and it is the responsibility of the manufacturer to understand the protocols and keep the consumer informed about quality and quantity of the product. This way, we can eradicate misbranding from India,” he said.
 
 Shete also enlightened the participants about actual letter and spirit of act or rules as to avoid any sort of non-compliance and penal action for the same. He also educated about the regulatory changes in Legal Metrology Act, 2009, Legal Metrology (Package Commodities) Rules, 2011, Standards Act, 2006 besides others.
 
 Manoj Tiwari, food safety officer, Food and Drug Administration (FDA) conducted the session on ‘Food Safety and Standard Act, 2006 and Product Labelling’ while Shivaji Suryawanshi, inspector at Legal Metrology Department, Nagpur Division spoke in brief on ‘Legal Metrology’.
 
 Earlier, Arun Khobragade, chairman of AFPF, had mentioned about people focusing a lot on packaging. “Packaging communicates the authenticity of our product to the customer. FDA has fallen down badly even on big names and hence it is a duty that product created should stand true with the facts mentioned on the package,” he said.
 
 Suresh Rathi, vice-president of VIA also encouraged the sellers to stick to the legalities not only with the view of legal compliance but also of marketing. “Today’s customer is smart and hence producers should act wisely and create a unique and genuine product,” he said.
 
 
