BENGALURU: A   found himself in behind bars after Ramanagara police named him as an accused in an alleged murder for flouting rules that govern  . The shop owner, H R Ravi, had sold a sim without documenting the identity of the buyer and police have now charged him as an accessory to murder and for destroying evidence. 

 The case goes back to December 3, 2017 when Anil R Kumar, a deputy manager of a bank — he worked out its MG Road office — was found dead near Kaggalipura, Ramanagara. Police investigating the case found he had been electrocuted.
 
 “The wound on Anil’s head suggested he was electrocuted, but we established it wasn’t an accident since there wasn’t a low hanging power line or electrical wire near the body,” Ramesh Banoth, superintendent of police, Ramanagara, told TOI.
 
 But Police were, literally, at a dead end since they neither had no leads to track down the killer. Eventually they turned to the victim’s mobile phone. “Call records of the victim showed he was constantly in touch with one particular number prior to his murder,” said Tammaiah M K, DySP, Ramanagara. “But we had no clue as to the identity of the caller. So we tracked the sim card and found it had been sold at a mobile shop in Gandhi Bazaar.”
 
 Police, however, found the buyer had paid Ravi, the shop owner, a higher price in return for not providing mandatory documents such as proof of identity and place of residence. 
 
 “Around this time, the Anil’s family told us that he was to get married in January 2018 so we began looking at the murder-love angle,” Tammaiah said.
 
 Meanwhile, the team which was tracking the sim card user based on tower triangulation, landed at the door of one B  , a field executive in a private company. Another team which was questioning Anil’s friends and fiancée, found that Anil’s fiancée and Gowda were colleagues.
 
 “Staff of the company where they worked told us that Gowda wanted to marry the same girl. On learning that she was engaged to Anil, he was depressed,” police said.
 
 The sleuths were sure they had their suspect, but they still had no evidence to link Gowda with the murder. They again turned to the mobile phone — Gowda’s this time — for leads. They found that Gowda’s phone was in the same place where Anil’s had been when he was allegedly killed.
 
 “Gowda used the sim purchased at Gandhi Bazaar to contact Anil,” Banoth said. “On the pretext of some work, Gowda lured Anil to Kaggalipura where he murdered him.”
 
 Gowda, 32, a native of Ramanagara and Ravi, a resident of   are now judicial custody.
 
 Rare method
 
 Police say B Shivabasave Gowda used a rare method to kill Anil. “Gowda had bought 30 metres of electrical wire and a pair of rubber gloves used by electricians,” police said. “Bending one end of the wire into a hook, Gowda threw it on a power line. Holding the wire with his rubber gloves on, he touched Anil’s head with the other end. Anil died on the spot.” 
 
 
