NAGPUR: It is a testing time for devout Muslims, who are fasting for a month, and walking the extra mile, to earn more blessings. Though being righteous is the way to go, there are many who feel some light hearted banter and a good laugh can help them weather the rigours of fasting, and provide a distraction from the onslaught of severe heat.

 These humorous notes are buzzing on Whatsaspp groups and   pages, and popularly known as  . Since the struggles of a rozedar fluctuate between hunger and thirst, most of the  , like the one showing a man guzzling water straight from the huge jar minutes before suhoor — the pre dawn meal — ends, resonates with everyone in the community.
 
 Most of the memes reveal a playful and humorous side of rituals related to Ramzan, and are best understood by the community. It is due to this that rarely will a non-Muslim receive a halal meme. “Ramzan is for abstaining from food and entertainment during the  , but healthy humour is always welcome,” says Khalid Hussain, a teacher of Islamic studies. “Many in our community poke each other saying, ‘Roze se ho ya roz jaise ho?’ (a play on the word roza asking are you on roza or are you on daily diet). This holy month is after all about restraint and not for stifling oneself,” he observes.
 
 Contrary to what one may believe, considering the innumerable dos and don’ts laid down for Muslims, the memes are extremely popular not just among the youth but the elderly too. “The maximum memes circulate on family groups, and my father also forwards a lot of them,” says Azeem Khan, an upcoming poet. “These funny takes do evoke laughter but we have to take care not to forward any which are overtly religious or use religious terms,” he adds.
 
 The trend gained momentum on social media platforms, and it does help in lightening the mood, says Riyaz Khan, a MBA student. “It is a lot of light hearted banter and mostly reflects the chatter that goes on in homes and groups during this period. With times, our community too has evolved and does appreciate this humour,” he says.
 
 Most of the memes, like the ones showing the impatience while waiting for iftaar, or getting up late and missing out on suhoor, or the one about the sleep cycle going haywire, reflect the banter and talks in any Muslim home during this time. “These memes are a reflection of our state of mind and make light of our struggles from early morning to evening as we observe the fast,” says Naved Yusuf, a final year management student.
 
 “In offices, when everybody else is having lunch or snacking in the middle of the day, a lot of sympathy is shown for the rozedaars. The memes also take upon these situations to depict them humorously,” says Sana Pasha, a HR recruiter. “People have become used to finding humour in everyday life,” she adds.
 
 But not everybody appreciates this humour. “During the holy month we are engaged in prayers and related rituals from early morning to evening, and are very focused. So, I don’t like this trivialization of such serious issues,” says Afaque Quereshi, an electrical engineer.
 
 (With inputs from Juveriya Khan)
 
 
