ATTARI: India’s first Full Body Truck Scanner (FBTS) will become operational at the country’s first Integrated Check Post (ICP) at Attari by September, according to Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) under secretary Rajesh Kumar. The   will take only two to three minutes to scan one truck, he added.

  
  
 
 Ever since then former Union home minister P Chidambaram laid the foundation stone of the   in 2010, there has been a demand of installation of FBTS, both by the security agencies and traders in the wake of ceaseless cross-border attempts to push in narcotics, arms and ammunition into India.
 
 Commissioner of customs (preventive) Dipak Kumar Gupta told TOI that FBTS would ensure hundred percent scanning of trucks arriving from Pakistan. On an average, 130 trucks cross border to and from from Pakistan via ICP every day.
 
 Giving example, Attari ICP deputy commissioner   Singh said that when a truckload of cement arrives from Pakistan carrying around 1,400 bags, they randomly check 5% of the material. He said with the installation of FBTS, whole truck would be scanned in just few minutes.
 
 In 2009, Ludhiana police had arrested an Afghan national Abdul Habib alias Rehan, who was living in Delhi in disguise of a fresh fruit merchant. He used to import fresh fruits from Afghanistan via Pakistan from Attari border for sale in Delhi and other parts of India, but he used to smuggle heroin in the pomegranate boxes following which the security agencies at Attari border had started pushing installation of FBTS.
 
 Balwinder said with the installation of FBTS, they would be able to totally rule out the possibility of any hidden concealment in the trucks arriving from Pakistan.
 
 On March 19, the LPAI had begun civil work for the installation of FBTS at ICP. Earlier In March , 2017, minister of state for home Kiren Rijiju had stated that government was in process of procuring five FBTS, which would be installed at Attari, Petrapole (Indo-Bangladesh border), Poonch-Chakan Da Bagh, Uri-Salambad (both along Indo-Pak border in Jammu and Kashmir) and Raxaul (India-Nepal border).
 
 Sources said that special high rise walls would be erected to make Rs 25 crore FBTS comply with recommendations of Atomic Energy Regulatory Board to ensure radiation safety for the operators. The civil work design was also approved by the department of atomic energy, added sources. The FBTS would allow uninterrupted scanning of trucks in all weathers.
 
 Asked whether one such scanner was sufficient, customs commissioner Gupta replied, “Let the first FBTS be operational then we will see whether we require another one or one is sufficient.”
 
 
