The government's move to bring   redevelopment projects and   schemes under Rera will benefit a massive proportion of Mumbaikars. As per the 2011 census, 41% of Mumbai lives in slums. Also, 85% of all constructions in the city involve redevelopment. 

 Both forms of projects (Mhada and SRA) have a rehab and a free sale component. A developer has to accommodate existing tenants in a rehab building for free and is compensated by being allowed to build flats for sale in the market.
 
  
 Currently if the rehabilitation and sale component are in different phases, then the developer is only expected to register the sale component under Rera. The new notification will make it compulsory to register the rehabilitation component as well even if it is in another phase. Currently though, projects with the rehab and free sale components in the same phase have been registering under Rera.
 
 Importantly, the move will apply to ongoing projects as well, an official said. But officials also say the step may not help settle disputes over non-payment of rent to tenants while redevelopment is underway. "The Act protects homebuyers. The rent issue is a civil dispute," an official said.
 
  like   (MGP) have welcomed the state's move. "This will go a long way in protecting those in rehab structures. Perhaps the government should go a step further and extend protection to tenants of private buildings undergoing redevelopment," said Shirish Deshpande of MGP.
 
 "It's important that this be done with retrospective effect. Otherwise developers will predate their agreements and escape the law," said activist Chandrashekhar Prabhu.
 
 Housing minister Prakash Mehta told the assembly a committee would soon meet to consider the issue of lowering consent for the redevelopment of Mhada's cessed buildings. A panel of eight MLAs is considering lowering consent from 70% to 51% of residents. Mehta said the state undertaking Shivshahi Punarvasan Prakalp Ltd (SPPL) would consider offering financial help to developers who run out of money trying to complete projects.
 
 On delays in issuing Annexure II, which gives the list of slum-dwellers to benefit from slum projects, junior housing minister Ravindra Waikar said the document would be issued within 90 days of application. The state assembly was discussing redevelopment schemes in Sion Koliwada. Waikar said there were 126 slum schemes there, of which only five were completed. He said a meeting would be called on the issue with stakeholders to discuss the progress of the schemes.
 
 
