BENGALURU: AICC president   took the poll battle between   and BJP, the two national parties, to a new height on Sunday by calling it an “ideological fight between   (Congress) and Nagpur (RSS headquarters)”.

 Interacting with journalists in the morning before heading out for what turned out to be a hectic day in Bengaluru, Rahul appeared relaxed. He went around speaking to journalists at each table — there were a number of them scattered around the hall in a five-star hotel — answering questions and offering insights. At one point he even walked up to the dosa counter and surprised the chef by offering to pose for a photograph with him.
 
 “The Congress believes the people of Karnataka do not need Nagpur and people like Mohan Bhagwat who wear shorts and wield a lathi,” Rahul said. “People in Karnataka and Bengaluru are by nature an affectionate lot, who listen to you, embrace you. Congress can learn a lot from Karnataka and Bengaluru’s culture. I have always loved Bengaluru where people come from everywhere. We (Congress) believe Karnataka doesn’t need Nagpur to run itself.”
 
 Avoiding the breakfast spread, Rahul asked for a bowl of curds, which was hurriedly procured from the kitchen. He spent five minutes at each table with K C Venugopal, AICC general secretary Karnataka in-charge standing behind his chair and tapping him when the time was up.
 
 When asked if the Congress’ battle in 2019 — the Lok Sabha election — will be against BJP’s Hindutva ideology, Rahul insisted that what RSS does and practices is not Hinduism. “It wants to grab power by any means. There is no ideology for BJP,” he said.
 
 Claiming that BJP’s downfall has already begun — he claimed it is evident in the behaviour of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP national president Amit Shah — he said: “For the first time after 2014, the anti-BJP voice is getting louder and anti-BJP parties are coming together. Congress will join hands with them and defeat the BJP.”
 
 ‘Modi could lose Varanasi’
 
 Forget the BJP winning the 2019 polls, Modi might even lose his Varanasi seat under a united opposition, Rahul claimed, adding this could happen if the Congress, SP and BSP came together.
 
 Confident that his party could rope in and manage alliance partners despite their varied personal and regional aspirations, he predicted a “collapse” not “seen in many years” for the ruling dispensation at the Centre.
 
 “Frankly, I don’t see the BJP winning the next election, so in 2019 we will go back to the normal, I sense,” he said in reply to a question on Dalit anger.
 
 “Congress knows know how to carry people (along),” he said. “We are not egotistical people, we don’t crush people and we don’t destroy people’s lives, so we will manage it (coalition),” Rahul said. “The basic thing is how to get the country out of the mess that Modi and RSS has put it in.”
 
 Sharing his experience on Gujarat, he said those raising ‘Modi, Modi’ slogans were nice to him when he met them and claimed they were “paid” for their sloganeering.
 
 As for the JD(S), Rahul said the regional party has to decide whether it is with the RSS or the Congress and other secular parties before the May 12 polls in Karnataka. He hinted that the Congress is open to an alliance with the JD(S) should it fail to secure a majority in Karnataka.
 
 Asked about his plans for Congress, Rahul admitted the party had made mistakes in 2014 which needed to be fixed. “We are in the process of fixing them,” he said. “We are also encouraging young leadership. Moreover, going forward, we need a vision for India and we are working on it.”
 
 
 BOOKS, FOOD AND FANFARE
 Bengaluru: Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s election campaign in Bengaluru on Sunday had an air of an outing as he enjoyed a short walk and a drive on the gentrified Church Street, besides a ride on the Metro. On a day marked by a string of interactive sessions and a public rally, Rahul took a break in the afternoon and hopped onto a Metro train, travelling from Vidhana Soudha to MG Road. He was accompanised by chief minister Siddaramaiah and party leaders G Parameswar, K C Venugopal, Krishna Byre Gowda and others.
 
 At M G Road station, the AICC president visited Bookworm, the bookstore, where Siddaramaiah bought five books — A History of God by Karen Armstrong, The Art of Living and Miracle of Mindfulness by Tich Nhat Hanh, The Goat Thief by Perumal Murugan, and The Japanese Secrete to Long and Happy Life by Ikigai — and gifted them to Rahul. The CM was offered a 20 % discount. Siddaramaiah, who paid Rs 2,000 in cash, in a lighter vein, asked the book shop owner, Krishna Gowda, not to give him a discount just because he was the CM. “It was a surprise visit. What was heartening was that he spent quite some time at the book shop and browsed books which were 200 years old,” said Gowda.
 
 The entourage then went to the Koshy’s, a landmark restaurant on St Marks Road, for lunch. Rahul had some nostalgic moments at the restaurant as he was shown pictures of his grandmother, Indira Gandhi, visiting the place decades ago. “This is not the first time that Rahul was here. We were happy to have him,” said Prem Koshy, restaurant owner.
 
 RAHUL LEAVES POURAKARMIKAS ELATED
 The much awaited interaction with AICC president Rahul Gandhi materialized nearly two hours behind schedule, and lasted only a few minutes. But civic workers looked satisfied with the Congress scion striking a connect with them, that was not only instantaneous but also natural.
 
 Rahul chose to sit with the BBMP’s cleaning staff, instead of addressing them from the podium, at Jakkarayanakere slum. The AICC president pulled up a chair as soon as he arrived at 11.30am and sat close to his audience, which was waiting for him since 9am.
 
 STRATEGY, NOT SHOWPIECE
 Responding to a query on bullet trains between Bengaluru and Mumbai, Rahul said: “I’m not against bullet trains if they are planned strategically. I’m against bullet trains if you’re doing them as a showpiece. If you’re spending huge amounts of money without a strategy, I get disturbed. One example is the way the Centre has badly designed a bullet train project spending almost Rs 1 lakh crore.”
 
 CM COULD CONTEST TWO SEATS
 AICC chief Rahul Gandhi dropped broad hints that the Congress leadership was open to the idea of chief minister Siddaramaiah contesting from more than one constituency. Asked if Siddaramaiah could contest from a constituency other than Chamundeshwari, he said: “That’s an internal matter of the party and Congress will decide.” On the Election Commission favouring a ban on candidates contesting from dual constituencies, Rahul said: “If Election Commission decides, then it will be so.”
 
 
