NAVI MUMBAI: The Kharghar police have arrested a 28-year-old resident of Kharghar village for abetment of the suicide of his wife. 

 Senior inspector   said, the woman,   Kadu (23), allegedly hanged herself from a ceiling fan. While she lived in the first floor room with her   and two-year-old son, her parents-in-law and brother-in-law lived in other rooms. 
 
 “The incident came to light on May 9 around 11.30pm when her husband Mitesh Kadu had gone to attend an wedding function. On hearing the toddler crying continuously, the woman’s brother-in-law went to check on the child and found her room bolted from inside. He then broke open the door and found Harshada hanging from the ceiling fan,” Kale said. The woman was taken to a hospital but was declared brought dead, the officer said.
 
 The woman had come to know about her husband’s extra-marital affair with a woman from their neighbourhood. The accused had allegedly been in a relationship with the woman even before he married Harshada but continued the affair. “She had found on her husband’s mobile his photos the other woman in a compromising position. When she confronted the man, he subjected her to physical and mental harassment,” the police officer said. 
 
 Harshada had even complained to her parents about her husband’s affair and the ill-treatment he was subjecting her to. Her parents and a maternal uncle even had in the past called Mitesh for a family meeting and tried to make him understand to discontinue the extra-marital affair. However, Mitesh ignored the family’s pleas and continued to harass Harshada, the police said. The accused, Mitesh Kadu, trades in supply of construction material. 
 
 “Acting on a complaint by the deceased woman’s father Nandu Gana Patil, who alleged his daughter was forced to commit suicide because of the harassment meted out to her by her husband Mitesh, an FIR was registered under section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the IPC against the accused. He was summoned to the police station and after extracting the said photographs from his mobile ,Mitesh was arrested on Thursday. The Panvel JMFC court has remanded him to police custody till May 15.”
 
 
