MADURAI: A major pipeline carrying sewage from Jaihindpuram pumping station to Vellaikkal, the waste treatment plant of city corporation, gave in to pressure, releasing stinky sewage onto 100 meter area. The situation gave a hard time to motorists and commuters who had to wade through the muddy water on one of the busiest roads, getting to their workplaces.

 “It made my morning truly unpleasant and I could not even have my cup of tea due to the stench,’’ said Krishnan of Villapuram. As the incident happened on one of the busiest roads in Madurai corporation, the   road, which is also the route to the Madurai airport, it also created traffic snarl-up for a while.
 
 “Water started oozing out with force as early as 5 am, and the smell was so unpleasant. The sludge made the road slippery,’’ said Chandran S. A deep pit has developed in the middle of the road as a result of the water flow on the road, he said.
 
 M Chellam, former councilor of this area, said that she was shocked to find that the sewage has reached her doorstep and that made her unable to step out of her house. “I called the corporation officials frantically fearing that it could get into my house. It was around 10 am when the water flow was stopped finally,’’ she said.
 
 Manikandan Nagar, a low-lying area, was entirely flooded with the sewage, and schoolchildren had to wade through the water to board buses for schools. “I am worried that my child might develop some infection after walking through this sewage,’’ said Vaidehi a resident.
 
 Chandrasekhar, executive engineer of the corporation, said that that the pipe that burst was a large one and they have to work throughout the night to fix it. “The problem would be solved by tomorrow. About eight meters of pipe had to be replaced here,” he said
 
 Vox Pop:
 
 P   of resident Villapuram, “The flow of water was not stopped till 10 a.m and people would have been less inconvenienced had the corporation acted faster and stopped the water early in the morning and the road would also not have been damaged,’’.
 
 U S  , resident of Manikandan Nagar, ``The same problem happened a few hundred meaters away near the NMR Subburaman Bridge, in  , this is the second incident in about six months, such a waste of public money,’’.
 
 M Chellam former councilor, ``Faulty work was resulting in a frequent pipe bursts on this busy roads, causing much inconvenience to the public,’’.
 
 
