MUMBAI: The state government on Thursday issued the   for Mumbai’s Development Plan-2034 (DP-2034), lifting the suspense on the period for submission of suggestions and objections.   can now file their suggestions and objections to the   (Schedule B) up to June 23. 

 
 The sanctioned plan will also come into force on June 23.
 
 The state urban development department had issued the notification on the sanctioning of the plan on May 8. It had three parts —the sanctioned part (Schedule A), the part which has been revised, called the excluded plan (Schedule B), and the Development Control and Promotion Regulations (DCPR) for the implementation of the   (DP).
 
 The excluded plan is such that it has changed the character of the development plan approved by the   general body and hence, the Maharashtra Regional Town Planning Act requires that the government invite fresh suggestions and objections from citizens. The DP sheets and maps will be available at the town planning office and the office of the chief engineer, development plan, BMC for inspections.
 
 N  , director town planning, at a workshop organized by CREDAI-MCHI on Wednesday said the approval of the entire DP should happen by the end of the year. However, several experts at the workshop expressed doubts on whether it would indeed be done. “It will be sanctioned only early next year,” said an architect, adding: “Instead of sanctioning the DP in haste in parts, the government had the time and it should have sanctioned it fully at one time next year. The excluded part is nearly 60% of the DP.” 
 
 A consultant to the building industry said the draft notification to the Coastal Regulation Zone Notification, 2018, issued by the Union ministry of environment and forests stated that no plans in coastal areas can be approved unless the new coastal zone management plan (CZMP) is cleared. “Since 2011, the city is yet to get its new CZMP,” the consultant said.
 
 Architect Vilas Nagalkar said the new DCPR links the premium FSI to road widths. The state government has not only linked the use of premium FSI and TDR (transfer of development rights) to the road width, it has also reduced the total FSI that will now be available. In the suburbs, the FSI has been reduced by a minimum of 0.2 for nearly all road widths, while in the city, it has been reduced by 0.2 for 9m-wide roads. “To correct this anamoly will require the government to call for suggestions and objections at least twice. This will further delay the implementation of the DP,” he said.
 
 
