BHOPAL: Eleven people including a former minister have been acquitted from the Gwalior's infamous ' ' in one of the longest run trials in sessions courts of  .

 In all 16 people were booked in this case, five of them including Madhavrao Scindia died during 35 years of trials. The palatial bungalow in question is located within the compound of Jai Vilas Palace, Gwalior.
 
 Additional sessions judge (ADJ) at Gwalior, Ravindra Singh, acquitted them on grounds that there was no evidence on record to prove their involvement.
 
 "This is the longest case of my career. Previous one lasted in 32 years. Prosecution has even failed to execute warrants on their material witnesses in the case," said Mukesh Gupta, counsel for the accused.
 
 Case pertains to 1983 (October 11) when, Madhavrao Scindia and 15 others were accused of making a forceful entry into Hiranvan Kothi that the   had given to her private secretary and confidant Sardar Sambhajirao Angre on 'rent'. Angre's daughter Chitralekha had lodged a police complaint alleging that Madhavrao's men raided the kothi when Angre was away.
 
 Gwalior police had arrested Madhavrao's close associates, including Mahendra Pratap Singh, K P Singh, Sharad Shukla, Ashok Sharma and  , in connection with the unlawful entry into the kothi on various charges, including dacoity. Bailable arrest warrants were issued against them by a local court on November 20, 1985.
 
  had filed an application for quashing the proceedings against him.
 
 Chitralekha had alleged in the complainant that her father   is the private secretary of Rajmata who is the mother Madhav Rao Scindia. She alleged that in 1973 Rajmata gave the said Hiravan Kothi to her father Sardar Angre in the knowledge of Madhav Rao Scindia, for residence. Since then her father Sardar Angre and his family members were residing in the said Kothi.
 
 "The bungalow was handed over to Sardar Angre orally by Rajmata. Not only this, but in order to regularise the oral transfer a rent note was executed on September 4, 1979 in the name of the complainant. The accused persons did not like this transfer of possession of the said building to the complainant and her father. The complainant, her father and other family members were residing in the said Kothi on the date of occurrence," said Chitralekha's lawyer.
 
 On August 13, 1983 between 5-6 pm the accused entered the bungalow and forced inmates out of the premises at gunpoint. Three out of five dogs that were kept for bungalow's safety were also killed. Besides, the articles of the complainant, several precious articles of the museum were also kept therein which the accused wanted to take in his possession, according to Chitralekha's lawyer. Her initial complaint with the Jhansi Road police was not entertained following which a criminal complaint was filed in the court.
 
