CHENNAI: The ruling camp is abuzz that the government is likely to push for local body elections in March. Given the advanced progress of the delimitation exercise by the state election commissioner, the state government may issue in February the orders of delimitation of wards and seats reserved for SC/ST and women, based on population figures arrived in census 2011. The civic polls in the state were due in October 2016. 

 In a related development, the state government issued an order on December 29, extending the term of office for special officers by another six months. "It does not mean the elections are unlikely for the next six months. The ruling party is keen on having the local body polls in March, or latest by April, since they are lying vacant for more than a year now. The state election commission on its part has begun the process of finalizing the delimited wards and planned to hold zonal-wise review with public to seek statements, objections and claims before forwarding its proposal to the state by this month end," said a senior leader, seeking anonymity. The commission will consult the government before arriving at a date, which is expected not to clash with the state budget and board examinations.
 
 The Madras high court has earlier ordered the state election commission to hold the polls before November 17, and later reserved orders on the contempt plea against the commissioner and secretary of the state election commission relating to the conduct of polls. The delimitation commission led by the state election commissioner has released the draft ward delimitation proposals in the local bodies and sought objections and claims from the public. 
 
 Based on the representations from political parties, the commission on Tuesday took a decision to extend the deadline to submit the objections and claims until Friday. In the case of  , a review is scheduled for Wednesday. There will not be any change in the number of existing wards, but delimitation will ensure the population of each ward be the same throughout that local body. 
 
 "During   regime, the government wanted to hold elections in haste. When we took to the court, the present regime attempted to delay it for a longer time. The ongoing delimitation is also an eye wash with inappropriate determination of boundaries of wards being done now," Rajya Sabha MP and   organization secretary   told TOI.
 
 
