CHENNAI:   national secretary H Raja’s tweet on social reformer E V R Periyar snowballed into a full-blown controversy on Wednesday, with the state waking up to the news of petrol bombs being hurled at BJP office in Coimbatore and protests spreading across the state.

 Following Raja’s tweet on Tuesday that said Periyar statues would be the next after a Lenin statue was pulled down in Tripura, a Periyar statue was attacked in Vellore district. Following similar incidents around statues in other states, the Union home ministry sent an advisory to state governments on Wednesday, asking them to take strong action against people indulging in such acts of vandalism.
 
 The BJP too got into damage control mode with Union minister Pon   stating that Raja’s tweet was wrong.
 
 The police provided protection to Periyar statues across   and the Madras high court on Wednesday directed the government to maintain law and order in the state.
 
 The explosion of three bottles filled with petrol and kerosene hurled on the BJP office on V K K Menon Road in Gandhipuram in the wee hours of Wednesday neither injured anyone nor caused any damage to the property. Three men belonging to Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam were arrested in this connection. Police said P Gopal alias Balan, 37, Jeevanandham M, 30, and  , 30, came on a twowheeler and flung the bottles into the office in retaliation to H Raja’s tweet. Political parties, including the DMK, CPM, CPI and VCK, organised protests across TN condemning  , seeking his arrest and slapping of Goondas Act on him.
 
 In Chennai, activists belonging to 36 political parties and organisations blocked roads and burned effigies of Raja. Traffic was disrupted for at least an hour in places like Anna Salai, Mylapore, TNagar, R K Nagar and Royapuram. The Police said they picked up 708 protesters including 126 women. A minor scuffle broke out between policemen and the protesters led by Dravida Iyakka Tamilar Peravai leader Suba Veerapandian on Anna Salai, when the latter was stopped from burning an effigy of H Raja.
 
 
 
 While the police tried to clear the road, protesters squatted on the road, disrupting traffic.
 
 In Madurai, protestors from various outfits attempted to besiege BJP’s office in Melamadai, sparking tension. Police brought the situation under control and arrested 16 members of Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam and Puratchikara Manavar Munnani.
 
 A group damaged BJP flag post at Orathanadu in Thanjavur. In neighbouring Trichy, CPI and CPM parties took out protest rallies.
 
 Former Rajya Sabha MP from Puducherry P Kannan slammed Raja’s comments on Periyar and asked the BJP leadership to sack him. Pro-Periyar outfits in the Union territory demanded his arrest under Goondas Act.
 
 BJP leader and former MP C P Radhakrishnan condemned the attack on the BJP office in Coimbatore and requested his party cadres to maintain peace. “We will cooperate with the police. We request the state government to arrest those who masterminded the attack,” he said.
 
