In the latest episode of  ,   gets terribly upset finding Michil in her room, trying to play with the new born baby. Iman is worried that her baby might fall from the bed and get hurt. Iman and Mithu scold Michil.

 Meanwhile,   enters the room. She feels bad as everyone is blaming the little boy.
 
 Unable to bear the trauma she rebukes him too. Michil tries to explain that he was just trying to play with the baby.
 
 Shruti is blamed by the family members for not taking care of Michil and bringing new problems to the household. She explains that she had no idea that Michil has come to the room.
 
 Iman is upset with the fact that   went to Mumbai to consult a doctor for Shruti’s treatment instead of celebrating their marriage anniversary. 
 
 Iman declares that she will leave home as she doesn’t want her marital dispute to affect the new born baby.
 
 Mithu suggests her that she should ask Ranajay to seek a transfer. This is the only way they can live happily without Shruti’s interference. But Iman is not ready. Iman says that she can’t take any more humiliation. Iman also informs that she is applying for jobs too. Badshah suggests her to wait till the child gets older.
 
 Michil comes to Iman’s room one again. He wants to play with the new born baby. Iman feels guilty for the way she had behaved with the baby. She gives him biscuits.
 
 Shruti watches the entire incident and feels better. She thanks her for being gentle to the child. But Iman humiliates her for entering the room. Iman suggests her to take rest. She also alleges that Shruti has never got any attention from her (Shruti's) husband. So she wants Ranajay to take care of her. Shruti feels insulted.
 
  Shruti tries to explain that Iman is wrong. But she doesn’t listen to her and instead asks Shruti to leave.
 
 Ranajay’s boss comes to visit the baby. Badshah informs him that Ranajay is in Mumbai to consult a doctor for Shruti’s treatment. Ranajay’s mother requests him to help them solve Iman’s marital issues as he did earlier. 
 
 Shruti enters the room and asks for water but gets insulted by everyone instead.
 
 Ranajay’s boss asks her to leave. Shruti tells everyone that once Ranajay returns, she will go to Haldia, where her parents live.   says that Shruti wants to create ruckus in front of Ranajay. His boss informs that he will make sure that Shruti reaches safely. 
 
 Shruti reassures that she would leave once he comes. Ranajay’s family promises her some financial help. His mother emotionally promises to sell her jewelries and provide money for Shruti's treatment.
 
 She tries to convince Iman that Ranajay will be more upset if he finds that she has left without informing him.
 
