NEW DELHI: Annoyed by the dilly-dallying of   in depositing the first tranche of Rs 100 crore by May 11, the Supreme Court on Wednesday said any failure would force it to auction personal   of the directors of the realty firm which had so far failed to either deliver flats or refund money to the restive home-buyers.

 Refusing to budge from its stated position on home-buyers seeking refund against non-delivery of flats in Unitech’s housing projects, a bench of CJI Dipak Misra and Justices A M Kahnwilkar and D Y Chandrachud warned the company that its directors would lose their personal properties if the firm failed to deposit Rs 100 crore by May 11.
 
 Refusing to grant more time for deposition of the instalment, which was in addition to Rs 38 crore already deposited by it in the   Registry and disbursed to home buyers, the bench told Unitech’s counsel Abhimanyu Bhandari to submit a list of personal properties of the directors to the SC on May 11. “Why the houses where the directors live not be sold first? How many directors do you have? All their houses should be sold and the money...distributed among home buyers,” the bench said refusing Bhandari’s repeated plea for more time to deposit the money.
 
 The SC ordered the directors not to alienate or create third party interest in their personal properties as it would take a call on these on May 11. It brushed aside Bhandari’s argument that most directors are employees of the company. 
 
 Appearing for Devas LLP, which was to have a tie-up with Unitech on its Bangalore land, senior advocate Sajan Poovayya accused Unitech of reneging on its words and not going through the ‘due diligence’ by providing necessary documents. “We had given them Rs 15 crore as advance, but Unitech deposited only Rs 5 crore in the SC. What happened to the rest,” Poovayya asked.
 
 On Monday, the SC ordered Unitech to give list of its as well as its subsidiaries’ unencumbered assets in India and abroad by April 5, as it failed to deposit Rs 750 crore in the SC registry to refund home-buyers’ investments in the builder’s incomplete residential projects.
 
 Appearing for home-buyers, advocate Gopal Shankaranarayanan told the bench that Unitech has failed to provide the list of unencumbered properties in places like Isle of Man and Cyprus. He said the realtor should give the list of encumbered properties, which could also be sold. The money could be utilised to refund home buyers after satisfying the creditors. The bench asked Unitech to give the list by May 11. It also said that another realtor partner of Unitech, Pioneer, has deposited Rs 40 crore in the court and ordered that it should be distributed pro-rata among home-buyers.
 
 
