Service lanes are an integral part of the life of motorists travelling along EM Bypass. Unlike in   and New Town, each service lane here has its own characteristics and governed by a different set of rules. TOI travels along a stretch of the Bypass and discovers how complex these simple thoroughfares are.
 
 BENGAL CHEMICAL
 
 Vehicles emerging from Mani Square are not allowed to take a right turn on reaching Manicktala Main Road. They have to either turn left and go towards   or drive straight till the service lane merges with EM Bypass.
 
 
 For motorists heading towards Science City, it is 5-km detour as the first U-turn on this stretch of EM Bypass is at Ultadanga, 2.5km away. However, most motorists flout the ‘No right turn’ sign and join the traffic heading into Bypass on  . It is a pain for also those wishing to abide by traffic rules since the Bypass-bound traffic on Manicktala Main Road blocks the access to the service lane across it.
 
 MATHPUKUR
 
 This is the first location where traffic lights were installed at the intersection of the service lane that runs parallel to EM Bypass and   that connects Tangra to Bypass. Emerging from Marriott, vehicles are not allowed to turn right into Bypass but have to drive straight along the service lane till it merges with Bypass. But motorists from the opposite end of the service lane are allowed to turn left or right at the intersection with DC Dey Road. “We have done this to ensure that residents living at the residential complex are not inconvenienced. It will otherwise be a 10-km detour for motorists heading towards Science City as they have to drive on till Swabhumi-Hyatt intersection for a U-turn.
 
  CROSSING
 
 Three service lanes merge here, two on either stretch of the crossing along the Bypass’ western flank and one along the eastern flank opposite Passport Seva Kendra. There are traffic signals at the head of each service lane. Traffic on the service lane that leads to   and   bus depot is two-way despite the stretch being single-lane wide. Traffic on the service lane along the eastern flank is also two-way. But the one leading to Ruby along Taj Gateway Hotel is one-way and witnesses the heaviest traffic flow among all service lanes along EM Bypass.
 
 AJAYNAGAR
 
 The only service lane here is the one leading into and out of housing complex Udita. Though there is a service lane beyond the Santoshpur connector towards Ruby along the western flank, it is not in use. Hence, traffic emerging from the housing complex and heading into Bypass are allowed to take a right turn and then move either left towards Ruby or right towards Patuli.
 AVISHIKTA CROSSING
 
 There is a single service lane at this intersection leading into several housing complexes. But it is one of the most complex ones. Vehicles turning into Prince Anwar Shah connector are not allowed to turn right into this service lane. They have to move to the next red light for a U-turn to return and turn left into the service lane. However, cars emerging from the housing complexes are allowed to move in either direction on the service lane.
 
 “If we didn’t allow the vehicles to reach this intersection, they would all have to drive to Ruby and take a U-turn and then go towards Patuli or return here and turn right into Prince Anwar Shah connector. That would be inconvenient for locals,” explained a sergeant.
 
 
 
  
 
