CHANDIGARH: A 29-year-old man fell to his death from the sixth floor of the   Police headquarters, Sector 9, here on Friday morning.

 Police suspect Sector 45 resident Ajit Singh might have committed suicide, but they were keeping all options open at the time this report was filed. Ajit had been as a sub-station attendant at the police office for the past 10 years and was on the night shift at the time of his death. A sub-inspector of Punjab Police,   Singh, who was on security duty at the headquarters at the time of the death said CCTV footage showed Ajit talking over the phone around 6.50am. “We have another footage of him falling off the building, but not of whether he jumped or somebody pushed him,” he said. 
 
 Ajit, who lived in Burail village of Sector 45, is survived by his wife, a three-year-old daughter and an eight-month-old son. 
 
 DSP (central division) Ram Gopal said they were informed about a man lying unconcious on the parking roof of the building’s entry around 8am. Though a PCR vehicle reached the spot and took Ajit to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, doctors declared him brought dead. 
 
 Bakshish said Ajit had gone to the seventh floor to switch off the lights before leaving for home. “His body was noticed by another employee around 8am. It is difficult to suspect anybody because Ajit did not have any enmity at work,” he said. 
 
 Ajit’s friends and colleagues were in disbelief over the death. A cousin of Ajit, Ajay Singh, said he had no reason to end his life. “In fact, he was over the moon after the birth of his son,” he said.
 
 DSP Gopal said they were not suspecting any foul play. “We are still checking footage of CCTV cameras installed in the building and on the premises of the office. We might find somthing from the report of the post-mortem, but we will have to wait for it,” he said. 
 
 A Sector 3 police have initiated inquest proceedings into the death. The body has been kept in the mortuary of Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16.
 
 
