The government is pumping money into villages to drive various development schemes as it goes into mission mode on   ahead of next year’s general election. The surge led by the rural development ministry has intensified efforts in areas such as the jobs guarantee programme, home construction, road building and local government as part of efforts to meet targets, some of them ahead of time.
 
  “Our focus is more on backward districts. We are working on a mission mode to achieve our targets by the end of this year,” a senior government official said.
  
  More than Rs 22,000 crore has already been transferred to states under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) for April-June, considered a time of peak demand. States have been assured of funds and told to focus on water conservation projects under MGNREGS. Delivering on employment, home construction and road building pledges in rural areas in the next few months will boost the ruling party’s   prospects given the challenge of rural distress and farm protests as evidenced by state elections results last year and the march on Mumbai in March. “The government would like to showcase its developmental agenda.
  
 
  
  Even if we reach close to the actual targets, it is good for the country,” said Amitabh Kundu, fellow, Research and Information System for Developing Countries. “There is a lot of awareness in villages about the schemes such as Swachch Bharat etc. where government has achieved success.” The rural development ministry will step up house construction to achieve the 10 million target by March 2019, advanced from the original 2022. The pace of road construction in rural areas under the Pradhan Mantri Gram   is also being pushed to its highest ever at 167 km per day in FY19 from 134 km last year. The government wants to build 61,000 km of roads providing connectivity to 19,725 habitations in FY19. The Rashtriya Gram   launched by Prime Minister   on April 24 will provide villages with a further Rs 7,300 crore.
  
  This money will be used for improving panchayat governance by helping to build IT infrastructure and providing training to members. The rural development ministry is in the process of finalising state-wise allocation of funds under the scheme and is expected to transfer the amount by month-end.
  
  The government has identified 115 districts with poor standards of health, education, livelihood and infrastructure to be developed in priority districts under the scheme. The villages will showcase the rural development initiatives undertaken by the Centre. The PM had announced the electrification of all inhabited villages in India last week, underscoring the government’s commitment to rural uplift.
  
  The focus will continue to be on drought-proofing activities under programmes such as MNREGS, which benefited 14.3 million hectares of land in 2015-2018. The PM has urged states to accord maximum priority to water conservation projects in April-June quarter, including river rejuvenation to prepare for eventuality of drought. The   had in May 2016 hauled up the government for not providing adequate relief to villages after consecutive drought years. The government is also racing to meet its target of building 10 million houses under the Pradhan Mantri Aawas Yojana-Gramin by March 2019.
  
