We had told you about TV show ' ' ending on May 28. Since its launch in January 2017, the show has seen several ups and downs. It all began with the male lead,  , quitting the soap. Soon after,  , who played one of the female leads, also followed suit, only to be brought back. However, she eventually quit the show in April, as she didn’t want to be a part of it post the time leap. BT caught up with the actress to find out what went wrong with 'Dil Se Dil Tak' and her equation with her co-stars. Excerpts…

 
 
 I am not the right person to comment on it, all I can say is that a lot of factors are responsible. As far as my character was concerned, I wasn’t able to connect with it. How would I convince the audience when I was myself not convinced? The storyline underwent a lot of abrupt changes, including the time leap. My character suddenly became quiet. Also, when an important character like Parth (Sidharth Shukla) exits, it impacts the show. I tried talking to the creative team, but by the time they could do something about it, the show had taken a time leap. I didn’t want to continue post that. But then, sudden, unexpected changes are not new on TV. I had a great experience working on the show and we parted on an amicable note.
 
 
 
 I am a thorough professional and when shooting, my focus is solely on work. I can’t befriend each and everyone on the set. There was no communication beyond work with Jasmin, as it takes me a lot of time to forge friendship with people. Though a newcomer, she is a good co-actor. Post my re-entry in the show, there were a few alterations in our lines, which she found to be sudden. But then, she is new to such changes.
 
 
 
 We shared a good chemistry and I enjoyed working with him. We would have a lot of altercations on the set, but it’s fine to have differences of opinion. Because of that, our scenes would come out really well. So yes, I missed shooting with him. 
 
 
 
 I have no clue about the briefing given to Rohan about his role. There was always an ambiguity about our on-screen relationship — were we supposed to play good friends or spouses? Acting is all about action and reaction. So, it’s important for me to understand and analyse my character. The way Sidharth played Parth was different from how Rohan portrayed him. Also, I had a different tuning with Sidharth. He’s an experienced actor, who knows about the requirement of his co-actor. Having said that, I had a great equation with Rohan off screen and we became good friends. We would pull each other’s leg all the time. He is fun-loving. 
 
