Madurai/Tirunelveli: Retired headmaster, R Lourdunathan, 85, from Madurai heaved a sigh a relief on Thursday after almost a week of running from pillar-to-post as he finally ported his Aircel number to another network provider. During this time, he felt like crippled unable to book his gas cylinders or carry out any banking transactions without getting one time password (OTP), and communicate with his family members living away from Madurai. Till few years ago, Aircel was the most-preferred mobile service provider in the southern districts of Tamil Nadu including Madurai. Better connectivity even during travel and its reach to rural areas that were not covered by other leading mobile network service providers, made Aircel the number one choice of people. Staying loyal to the brand, they linked their Aircel mobile numbers with their LPG connections, bank accounts and Aadhaar but it has badly affected them over the last few days ever since the service provider announced that it would be terminating services in April. Since the network is down people are also unable to port their number to other service providers. T J Santhosh, 63, of Vilavancode in Kanyakumari district said that she could not call the toll-free number of the LPG refill booking agency as she did not get network connectivity. G B Christin, 31, of Marthandam has linked her Gmail account with the mobile number and is unable to access mails as she is unable to get the one time password needed for the login. Users of the network are also facing difficulty in making online transactions and in booking tickets. Travelling businessmen and those who linked it with their insurance are also facing a tough time. Retired persons who have settled in this region are finding it difficult to go to a mobile phone shop, the bank or gas agency to apply for a new number or to port the number to other service providers for continued service. A mobile phone top-up and accessories outlet near the Kanyakumari district collectorate in Nagercoil has offered free porting from Aircel and Docomo to any network of their choice. However, it comes with a condition that the customer should definitely recharge for a month with the new service provider. It attracted hundreds of customers to the shop in the last two weeks. But, the shopkeeper on condition of anonymity said that they initiated the porting process but some of them have not got the code for porting from the existing service provider as the signals are nil or too week. “Some have not got the message for over 10 days,” she said. Ramesh, manager of a LPG agency in Tirunelveli said that some customers who are facing difficulty in booking LPG refills from their Aircel number have approached the agency and they helped them book the refill online.