NAGPUR: The Indian   for North Maharashtra and Gujarat has been shifted from Mumbai to Nagpur. The setting up of the new   establishment in the city is part of the implementation of recommendations by Lt General (retd) DB Shekatkar committee, by the ministry of defence.

 Earlier, this office used to be at Colaba in Mumbai, where the area office too is located. The sub-area offices report to the area office. A sub-area is headed by an officer of Major General rank, and the area has a Lt General at its helm. The office at Nagpur will have 25 officers and nearly 200 other ranks and staff headed by a Major General.
 
 The Shekatkar committee had given number of recommendations, aimed at optimum use of the Army’s resources. This led to shifting of some establishments to new locations. The committee has also recommended shutting down of certain units, like the military farms.
 
 Since the area as well as the sub-area offices were located in the same place at Mumbai, it led to duplication of work. It was decided to shift the office to Nagpur, from where the Army establishments in north of Maharashtra and whole of Gujarat will be handled.
 
 The sub-area office has been accommodated at the premises which earlier housed the Command Works Engineer’s (CWE) office. The CWE has been shifted to the Sitabuldi Fort, where the 118 Grenadiers, a unit of the Territorial Army, is stationed. Now, both establishments will be located at the fort. The movement will not disrupt any establishments, said sources.
 
 The area offices basically cater to the administrative requirements of the static units in the geographical area under their jurisdiction. The area office at Mumbai looks after the units in Gujarat, Maharashtra and Goa. It has two sub-area offices under it, covering North Maharashtra-Gujarat, and South Maharashtra-Goa. The latter sub-area office is in Pune. However, the sub-area office for North Maharashtra-Gujarat was in Colaba, close to the area office, since many years.
 
 Apart from catering to the needs of the defence units, matters related to civilian aid, such as rescue missions during natural calamities, or riot control, are also taken at the sub-area office. The move is expected to make the process faster.
 
 
