MUMBAI: A five-year-old girl abducted by a woman from outside her Nalasopara building on Saturday has been found   in a ladies   at Navsari railway  ,  . She is believed to have been strangled.

 Nalasopara police had prepared a sketch of the kidnapper, vaguely captured on CCTV outside Sai Arpan building, Vijay Nagar, where the girl, Anjali Saroj, lived with her parents. The footage shows Anjali being forcibly taken away by the woman around 8.30pm on Saturday. A case of kidnapping was registered with the police on Sunday morning. Just as the woman’s sketch was circulated, the police were informed about the discovery of the girl’s body on Sunday night.
 
 An autopsy report is awaited to ascertain the cause of death, prima facie believed to be strangling. The toilet where the body was found is on Navsari station’s platform No. 1.
 
  
 Eyewitnesses at Nalasopara have told the police the woman was seen in the area for over an hour and a half. Police officer Jayant Bajbale said CCTV footage covering over a km shows her walking alone. “It is possible she is from the same locality and knew the girl,” said Bajbale.
 
 The girl’s father, Santosh, an auto driver, has not been able to identify the woman.
 
 Eyewitnesses said the woman was seated near the building where Anjali was playing with four to five other children, and was in the area since 6.30pm, Saturday. The woman, described by the police as fair, tall and in her 30s, was in a salwar kameez. She lured the children with chocolates. They took the chocolates and began chatting with her. Then she held Anjali’s hand and began walking. The other children followed. Upon reaching a crossing, the woman gave cash to the other children and asked them to buy more chocolates. Then she left with Anjali.
 
 A CCTV camera installed at the crossing captured the woman holding Anjali’s left hand and walk away.
 
 The police said it’s clear from the other children’s account that the woman wanted to take Anjali away. By 8.45pm, when Anjali didn’t return, her family began a search, whence they were told by some children from the locality that Anjali had gone away with a woman.
 
 The police are examining CCTV footage of railway stations from Nalasopara to Navsari. They haven’t ruled out the possibility of the woman being known to the girl’s family.
 
 A case of kidnap and murder has been registered against the unidentified woman. A police team has headed for Navsari to look for her. By Monday night’s Anjali’s body had been brought to the Nalasopara police station.
 
 
