Sometimes, when 
  is on the top of our mind, we end up taking the wrong path just to achieve results. For Neil M. Nayak, even though his body's best interest was in his mind, his method was wrong, to begin with.

 It was only when Neil enrolled for a programme that he understood the importance of a healthy body and balanced diet. Read on to find out how this 28-year-old music composer lost 20 kilos in 6 months! 
 
 
  Neil M. Nayak 
 
 
  Music Composer
 
 
  28
 
 
 106-108 kgs
 
 
 18-20 kgs
 
 
  6 months 
 
 
 
 
 
  It was only when my trainer introduced me to a sports nutritionist who asked me to enroll in a programme on their online portal that I realized how important health is.
 
 
  I start my day with fats, protein, low carbs and fiber hence, cheese cubes or paneer or butter.
 
 
  Rice with paneer or soya chunks and lots of green vegetables with pure ghee
 
 
 Rice, paneer and lots of green vegetables with pure ghee (same as my lunch)
 
 
  I indulge in cheat meals once in three months. I prefer to go to a place where there is a buffet and unlimited food options. 
 
  
  
  I do intense weight training six days a week and sometimes, boxing as well. 
 
 
  Everything I eat is low calorie as I cook food myself. I measure the macronutrients and calories. 
 
 
  One should be involved in activities which can qualify as good workout daily. Also, ensure decent intake of water. I consume as much as 8 litres of water every day to keep my digestive unit healthy. Also, avoid unhealthy foods which serve as a distraction. 
 
 
  Maintaining a positive approach is the first basic of being motivated. Other than this, my family also helped me stay on track. 
 
 
  I ensured I didn’t lose focus by setting a goal. To achieve this goal, I scheduled my workout routine and followed a balanced diet accordingly. Also, staying away from negative people helped a lot. 
 
 
  Issues like high blood pressure and cholesterol level are a big hindrance. Also, not being able to find clothes of your size is a downer. 
 
 
  Fitter than I am right now. 
 
 
  Initially, when I had started my weight loss journey it was difficult. This was majorly because I was following a routine which was not only tough but also wrong. 
 
 
  Patience is the key. Nothing happens overnight. Staying positive is important. It is your body, you have to take care of it. Do not be stressed, as it can harm your body in the long run!
 
 
 
