CHANDIGARH:   division is going to seek explanation from Kalka railway officials regarding the derailment of coaches twice in three months near yard.  , divisional railway manager (DRM), Ambala division said the orders will be issued keeping in view the derailment of the coaches of   14888 on Friday evening.

 On Friday, when the coaches of 14888 was placed in the washing line, the   and his staff did not notice that instead of 10 coaches, the rake had 11 coaches, which then hit at the end point. After this, the DRM marked an inquiry of the incident to a team of officers.
 
 As per the observation by the inquiry team, it was stated that the shunting master and the points men, who were on duty, were not aware about the fact that how much was the load of the 14888 Kalka-Barmer. They presumed that there were 10 coaches attached for the  , while the actual number was 11. As there was no staff deputed by shunting master on the rear end coach while pushing back, the coaches got derailed. 
 
 Divisional railway manager, Ambala division Dinesh Sharma said as per the investigation by the officers, it was found the incident happened due to negligence of the shunting staff. He said strict action is recommended in the inquiry report prepared after the incident. They are also going to to find out why in just three-month time period, two such incidents of derailment took place near the yard, when there is a proper manual, which the staff of shunting have to follow while the coaches ply from yard to platform.
 
 As per the manual, three men have to be deployed - one in the front of the yard, another at the back and one in middle to avoid any such incident, he said. But, this was not followed in Kalka and the derailment happened, Sharma said. He said the officers were instructed that the manual has to be followed in future to avoid serious incidents in Kalka station.
 
 In the month of November 2017, due to miscommunication among the shunting staff during the shifting of 14503 Kalka-Katra train from washing line to yard at Kalka railway station, coaches were derailed resulting in delay of the trains.
 
 
