NEW DELHI: Nine months after a medical intern was murdered inside the St Stephen’s hospital, his family members have sought a   inquiry into the incident. Dr Shalini, the mother of the victim,   Pande, will approach   on Friday to seek a transfer of the case.

 
 
  
 
 Speaking to TOI, Shalini said that she is dissatisfied with the probe as Delhi Police couldn’t track down the prime suspect,  . “Our last hope is Supreme Court. We are sure that we won’t return empty handed from there,” she added.
 
 “We met the most senior policemen probing the case, but didn’t get a satisfactory reply. We were shown ‘Missing’ posters with Suyash’s picture, but I think they were only printed for paperwork as we couldn’t find them pasted anywhere,” Shalini said.
 
 Pande’s aunt, Dr  , said that the murder could have been averted with timely action. “Shashwat was a bright doctor. When they were co-residents in radiology, he helped Suyash with his projects. He could never have imagined what was to follow,” she added.
 
 She alleged that Suyash became obsessed with Shashwat and kept stalking and harassing him. Her nephew complained several times to the hospital authorities, but to no avail. “St Stephen’s could have rusticated Suyash, but they didn’t and he regularly visited the hospital and had access to every place. He was suspended a few times, but that didn’t serve the purpose,” Philips added.
 
 Family members also suspect the role of a hospital insider in the murder. They said it would be very difficult for someone to commit murder inside the hospital premises during working hours. Either a guard or a staffer must be involved in the conspiracy. They demanded that police look into this angle as well.
 
 Shashwat was to get engaged in January. “Everything was going fine, but Suyash had sworn to make our lives miserable and had no qualms in saying that aloud either. He posted threats on Facebook and later took to official WhatsApp groups to vent his ire. When everything failed, he, his father and uncle gave death threats to me as well. We lodged an FIR but withdrew it due to fear of getting harmed,” said Shalini.
 
 “Suyash was seen with electric guns and an 18-inch baton sword in the hospital premises. How was all that considered normal? My son struggled for months and got several complaints registered from March 2016 until the day he was killed. The least the system can do is catch Suyash,” the mother added.
 
 
