PATNA: Chandragupt   (CIMP) once again achieved 100% placement for its ninth batch of postgraduate diploma in management students. Altogether 28 companies from various sectors, such as finance, management, power, dairy, aviation and aerospace and development visited the campus during this placement season. The highest salary offered was Rs 14 lakh and the average salary was Rs 6 lakh per annum, which is 10% more than the previous year. According to   sources, some students got jobs in a Dubai-based company.

 “Of late, there has been a manifold increase in the number of companies visiting the institute for campus placements,” CIMP director Mukunda Das said, adding the institute has emerged as the preferred destination for regular recruiters, such as ITC, Colgate Palmolive, Tata Advanced Systems and Amul.
 
 BEd students’ protest: Backed by student wings of different political parties, hundreds of   (MU) students on Thursday protested outside the regional office of the university here against expulsion of BEd examinees. According to MU sources, around 45 students were expelled on Wednesday for using unfair means during the exam. However, the students held the university administration responsible for large scale “anomalies” in the examination.
 
 International School: International School has introduced robotics classes in both its CBSE and ICSE wings. The school will teach students as per the class courses prescribed by the two boards. The subject will be taught from LKG to Class X.
 
 Inaugurating the robotics laboratory, school directress Farhat Hasan said, “It is a very auspicious and proud moment that International School has introduced robotics laboratory for all classes. The robotics classes will enable students to focus on technology-based education besides making their everyday learning creative, innovative and full of fun.”
 
 ISMP campus selection:   (ISMP) will organise a campus recruitment drive on April 9 on its premises in Khagaul. Final year students of BCom, BBA, BCA, BSc and BTech will participate in the drive. The students can register for campus selection on April 7. A pre-placement talk will be conducted by Genpact. The students will be informed about selection process, group discussion and personal interview.
 
 
