NAGPUR: The functioning of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s Nehru Nagar zone has come under scanner. Reason, the zone had served notice to Nirmal Ujjwal Credit Cooperative Society (NUCCS) to demolish illegal construction at its township on Umrer Road on July 25 last year, but later no action has been taken. The zone had found unauthorized construction of around 804.708 sq metres by the builder and developer in violation of Section 53 (1) of Maharashtra Regional Town Planning Act.

 Confirming this, sources from Nehru Nagar zone told TOI that the notice was served to the builder for not adhering to the sanctioned building plans while constructing the mega township on its land in Mauja Harpur, Umred Road. During spot inspections, a team comprising engineers from the department had found illegal construction including on 24 meter road, electricity sub-station on 202.86 sq mt area, water treatment plant on 91.94 sq mt and entire seventh floor in building number 3.
 
 The zone, headed by assistant municipal commissioner  , had directed the builder to demolish illegal constructions within a month or else action would be initiated against him. TOI has copy of the demolition notice. But even after five months, so far no action has been initiated. 
 
 Additional municipal commissioner   expressed anguish over the delay by the zone officials and assured to look into the matter.
 
 Alleging that the NUCCS management has failed to provide basic amenities in the society having 584 houses, including row houses, semi-detached bungalows and flats, the residents had taken to streets against the developer. The residents alleged that the developer, who had taken one-time maintenance from them, refused to return the maintenance fund. Later, the residents approached district deputy registrar (DDR) office. Following directions from the office of DDR, the residents have formed Nirmal Nagari Condominium. Elected board members include Prafulla Karpe, Ajay Malviya, Ashok Bhivgade, Rahul Patil and Nita Tijare. “We will claim our maintenance money from NUCCS along with interest and it will take care of the day-to-day maintenance, including security and all,” said the residents.
 
 
