BENGALURU: With the Reserve Bank of India’s tougher know your customer (KYC) norms hitting Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation’s cashless expansion plans, the state-run bus corporation is now mulling closed-loop smart cards.

 BMTC’s present open-loop   was unveiled in June 2016, but the corporation delayed its implementation due to technical glitches. The card, a cashless facility, was launched in conjunction with Axis Bank, but only about 500 passengers purchased the e-purse (open-loop smart card).
 
 The open-loop card is a sort of universal card and can be used to shop and pay for parking, apart from being integrated with other modes of transport like Metro, taxis or autorickshaws. Closed-loop cards can only be used to pay fares for   commute.
 
 “The delay was mainly due to RBI’s KYC policies since it was an open-loop smart card,” said a senior BMTC official. “So we have decided to introduce closed-loop cards like for Namma Metro. This will be an addition to the open-loop smart cards."
 
 The smart card facility was first introduced on the 335-E route (Kempegowda bus station to Kadugodi) and recently extended to all its Volvo buses. Still, there have been few takers.
 
 Open-loop card holders have to visit BMTC counters at least twice for authentication of documents and biometrics under KYC. Closed-loop card users are, however, spared of this hassle. While BMTC’s e-purse can be used on all Volvo buses, only a few passengers are aware it even exists.
 
 “We have set up counters in bus terminuses in Majestic, ITPL and Domlur where smart cards can be bought,” the official said. “It’s not feasible to collect documents and biometrics from each passenger. Also, people who visit the city for a few weeks will not be keen to submit documents.”
 
 A smart card costs Rs 30 and can be topped for values between Rs 100 and Rs 10,000. Once in the bus, the conductor swipes the card in a machine and enters the destination, after which the corresponding travel fare is deducted. The facility would have reduced complaints over change problems.
 
 In many cities abroad, just one card is sufficient for travel on both trains and buses, but Bengaluru will have to wait for some more time before that becomes a reality. 
 
 
