When you meet the troupe behind Crazy Creations, you are convinced that they were born to do comedy. They tease each other, laugh and share a common passion. For decades, they have held aloft the banner of one of the most successful theatre groups in the city. Started in 1979,   is the brain behind this group that has given us some memorable comedies, such as Meesai Aanalum Manaivi, Marriage Made In Saloon, Maadhu +2, and more recently,  . As they step into their 40th year of existence, Chennai Times speaks to a few troupe members about how it all began, memories of building   and more…

 
 
 A casual conversation on starting a theatre group after a game of cricket is how it all began, says  , lead actor of the troupe and brother of Mohan. “We were around 20 people who were either college friends or family friends, with a shared passion for theatre. Mohan had already established himself as a writer, contributing scripts to S Ve Shekher and Kathady Ramamurthy. One day, after a game of street cricket, we decided to start this group, just like that. Now, we have ‘colleagues-turned-friends’. For us, at that time, if you are a friend, you can be in the troupe. Around 16-17 of us are still part of the team now,” begins Balaji. 
 
 SB Khanthan, who has been directing all of their plays till date, adds, “Balaji and I were classmates in Vivekananda College. My brother, Mouli, was in Anna University, where Mohan was his junior. Mohan was influenced by Mouli’s comedies and took over after he passed out of college. He began writing plays and won several college competitions. There were times when Balaji and I took scripts from him to stage plays in our college. At that time, Balaji used to play the lead in all the plays and has even won Best Actor awards. I was assisting Mouli in his own productions and became an undesignated assistant to all his plays. When we sat down together, we realised that we have an actor, writer and director,” he says.
 
 Staying together for 40 years wouldn’t have been possible without the help of their troupe manager, G Srinivasan, says Mohan. “I owe a lot to him. For a good team to concentrate on work and perform, we need a troupe secretary like him. He’s our backbone. If we have performed all over the globe, it is because of his meticulous planning,” says Mohan, adding, “The first play I wrote for Crazy Creations is Alavudheenum 100 Watts Bulbum.”
 
 
 
 Though Mohan had already established a name for himself, they did struggle during the initial years. “There were drama giants in those times, like RS Manohar, Cho Ramaswamy, Visu, Mouli and YG Parthasarathy. To stage a drama alongside them back then was a challenge. But we took it step by step. Our success, too, was not achieved overnight,” says Balaji. Mohan adds, “It was definitely a risky affair. We also had Balachander sir at that time, who was ruling the theatre scene.”
 
 Khanthan says, “When people heard Mohan had his own troupe now, they came to watch. We got slots, but I must admit that sabhas were initially reluctant to give prime dates or slots. We did 100 shows of Alavudheenum… over a period of time. But Marriage Made In Saloon became our vasool chakravarthi. Once sabhas started getting big collections, we began to get prime slots. There were times when we have done 40 shows in 30 days. Maadhu +2 was the Brain Lara for us… it crossed 500 shows. Meesai Aanalum Manaivi touched 700 shows, and now, Chocolate Krishna will soon be touching 1,000 shows. We have done 16 plays so far, and there has been no looking back.”
 
 
 
 Mohan says that they didn’t intend to write comedy all the time. “Comedy came naturally to me. I can write a serious subject even tomorrow. They think writing comedy is easy, but many fail to understand that comedy is serious business. To write a punch in comedy is a task... it has to fall in place. We have to write comedy in such a manner that people laugh, and do not feel hurt. And that is one of the reasons why my comedy is clean. There is no politics or vulgarity. Basically, there shouldn’t be kaama-nedi,” he puns, and adds, “The plays that I had written 40 years ago are valid even today. The only bit that has changed over the years is the value of money, which I change in my comedy scenes. That’s about it. That is the greatness of comedy.” 
 Balaji says, “What he writes is innocent humour and that is something everyone can enjoy. Probably that is one of the reasons why we are still successful.”
 
 
 
 They script only family dramas and the team feels that’s what works well with the audience. “If a play has all your family people, like appa, amma, anna, maamiyar, maattu ponnu, it connects with them. I need 20-30 days to write a script. And all I need to write is a 10x10 room... my ideas will flow,” says Mohan, adding, “I write about 150 pages of script and it is Khanthan’s task to further edit it.”
 “That is the biggest challenge I face,” chips in Khanthan, “There have been times when he has written 400 pages of content. All the punches will be so good that I will be in a fix — what do I keep and what do I leave. But once he hands over the script to me, Mohan will never interfere. He will give complete freedom for me to call the shots. Whether it is deciding on the set, costumes or music — there are no roadblocks for us. Also, when he writes the script, he will think of the artiste while writing the character. So, the casting becomes clear for us. We have a set of people like Seenu Mohan, Appa Ramesh, Lawyer Subbu, Sundararajan... who have all been working with us from Day One.”
 
 
 
 If you go to any of Mohan’s plays, names such as Maadhu, Mythili, Seenu and Janaki have always been a constant. Ask Mohan why and he says, “Janaki was the name of my school teacher. She was the one who pushed me into learning dramatics. As a mark of respect, I keep her name in all my scripts. Even if I am writing for a movie, I request the team to keep the female lead’s name as Janaki. She is over 85 years of age now, and lives in Bengaluru. I used Maadhu after watching Nagesh’s Ethir Neechal. I want my heroes to be like him.” Balaji, who has prefixed Maadhu to his name, adds, “Every character has certain qualities. Mythili is a brave lady. Maadhu never gives up, and so on. Also, for people who have been watching our plays for years now, it becomes easier to recognise and connect to us.”
 
 
 
 Balaji says that apart from new audiences that they get for every show, they have a set of audience that has been watching their show ever since the troupe came into existence. He says, “We have a mailing list to whom we first announce a new show. They also give us a lot of feedback.” Khanthan says, “It is a blessing to be supported by them from then till now. For our first show in Mumbai, we had a 3,000-plus crowd. Another fond memory is having staged a play in a village near Theni. They set up the stage in the middle of the road. We were confused if people would understand our jokes, but they enjoyed it a lot.” The team has also been performing abroad from 1999. “Our first show in the USA was in 1999. We didn’t know what kind of a reception we would have. But the audiences abroad have supported all our shows till today. We have travelled to various parts of the globe like Dubai, Singapore, Sri Lanka, London, Jakarta,” Mohan reels off names of the places where they have performed.
 
 
 
 “We’ve had stage problems and all of that, but they were never really big issues. We know how to deal with them,” says Balaji. Khanthan adds, “There’ve been dialogue sothapals, and instances of actors jumbling the words on stage. We used to laugh about it backstage. No one does it on purpose and it is natural that sometimes they make mistakes.” The one real challenge they faced was during the staging of Jurassic Baby. “According to the script, a grown-up man has the mind of a baby. There is a minute difference between an overgrown child and a lunatic child. So, we had to be careful in the execution,” says Khanthan.
 
 
 
 The team is conscious about having youngsters to keep up with the times. Balaji says, “It is nice to have them around as they give a different perspective to the play.” Khanthan says, “People like Sathish and Chaams have been part of our troupe and have gone on to become successful actors. The best part is that Mohan is very approachable to all age groups, so much so that the youngest member of the team will be his friend.” 
 
 
 
 On their future, Mohan says they want to continue giving hit shows. “For a movie, you track the number of days the movie ran to measure the success of the film. For us, it is the number of shows. As we are approaching Chocolate Krishna’s 1,000th show, we want to be able to do such plays in the future,” he says. Khanthan adds, “Mohan had written a historical comedy titled Junior Sirippu Rajan. Our goal is to adapt that for the stage soon.”
 
