NAGPUR: The state government is set to declare the 160sqkm Ghodazari forest in   forest division a wildlife sanctuary. With this, Maharashtra will have 61 protected areas (PAs), including 54 sanctuaries and tiger reserves and 6 conservation reserves.

 Though wildlife excursion is available in buffer zones of   and   tiger reserves, Ghodazari, 103km from Nagpur, already has a jungle safari launched on January 7, last. It was perhaps first safari experiment in any territorial forest area.
 
 The proposal to declare it sancturary will come up in the state wildlife board meeting on January 31. The meeting was earlier slated for January 20.
 
 State’s chief wildlife warden   said the proposal was forwarded to state government four days ago. “It will give a boost to tiger conservation as the area is adjoining Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve. After notifying it as PA, there will be drastic change in its protection status,” Misra told TOI.
 
 “The local MLA Bunty Bhangdiya has also supported the proposal. The best part is that we have removed two villages out of the proposed sanctuary area,” Misra added. The 160sqkm area includes 34 reserve forest compartments with 13 beats. On February 13, 2017 TOI was first to report that Ghodazari has been proposed a sanctuary. At that time the proposal was for over 215 sqkm area. But as two villages — Ghodazari and Korambi-- have been removed from the proposal, the area was reduced.
 
 According to a technical report published by Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) on Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR) & TATR on tiger distribution, Ghodazari in Nagbhid range is one of the key intact narrow patches connecting Talodhi, Sindewahi, Palasgaon and Shivni. Ghodazari influences distribution of tiger occupancy in the TATR-NNTR landscape.
 
 Misra says one of the aims to declare it a sanctuary is to contain man-animal conflict but the area is also rich in wildlife. Ghodazari lake plays host to many resident and migratory birds.
 
 Misra says Ghodazari falls in the tourism circuit of   and Tadoba. From Nagpur, one can visit Umred-Karhandla, Ghodazari and Kolsa in Tadoba.
 
 Other tourist attractions here include Dolmen Complex at Shankarpur near Chimur, which has megalithic culture of   and is known for bewildering type of burial sites like stone cirdes, menhirs, dolmens, cists etc largely associated with early Iron Age of India. Dongargaon painted hill rock shelters can also be an added attraction. These rock shelters are part of Perjagarh-Nagbhid hill range. The rock paintings depict animal and human figures drawn by ancient man using natural red ochre pigment. Both sites are 25km from Ghodazari.
 
 
