New Delhi: It was a misty December morning in Indore when Vidarbha’s Rajneesh Gurbani wiped out Delhi’s tail to become only the second bowler to claim a hat-trick in a Ranji Trophy final. The spark that drove Vidarbha’s historic triumph came as late as the 101st over of the innings.

 
 
 
 
 
 It was   -- when one gets the ball to move in the air against the conventional ways once the coated lacquer on the leather ball gives away. The phenomenon, a rarity in cricket not too long ago, has become the go-to tactic for most pacers around the world.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The art born on South Asian pitches was always vulnerable to grave offences, giving it its dark nature. Steve Smith’s stunning confession on Saturday once again casts aspersions on this art and the spectre of ball-tampering -- an attempt to alter the condition of the ball – looms over every bowler who successfully gets the ball to reverse.
 
 
 
 
 
 Former cricketers have openly announced that ‘preparing a ball’ has always been synonymous with tampering. On Monday, former Indian pacer Ashish Nehra made a telling counter-statement to this notion. “Yes, it’s an art but then stealing is also an art. Would you put a thief in jail or praise him. Reverse swing is an art but   is dishonesty. And there are ways to prepare a ball for reverse swing without tampering,” the recently-retired left-arm pacer split the two in the way only he can.
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Indian domestic bowlers, like Gurbani, have conceded that the new ball is no longer a lure these days. “I feel comfortable bowling with the old ball. It gives me control and movement,” Gurbani had claimed after claiming his hat-trick that Indore evening. Like in world cricket, reverse swing is common in Indian domestic cricket too. But the moot point is if it is, then ball-tampering might be too.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Match officials, besides being posted on the 22-yard pitch, are trained to keep an eye on the entire field to sense any misdemeanor. “There are a few ways of preparing ball which don’t breach the laws of the game,” a senior international umpire told TOI, while listing the grey areas. “We need to keep a check on the frequency of one-bounce throws along with keeping a watch on whether the ball is repeatedly given one or two particular players to polish the ball. The sunscreen creams that the players apply on their faces and arms too can be used unfairly. That’s when the ball needs to be checked by the umpire to see if it feels sticky.”
 
 The obvious ways to cheat, as ball-tampering is perceived to be, are there in the open. Yet, there has to be more than one reason to do so. Smith spilled it when he dropped the word ‘desperation’ in his confession-cum-apology.
 
 Reverse-swing can’t happen in desperation. Ground conditions, pitch and atmosphere are bigger determinants than just the bowler’s technique. “If conditions are dry and pitch is abrasive, the ball will in any case reverse. For example, at the Ferozeshah Kotla, even a Ranji team will get the SG Test ball to reverse within 10 overs,” Nehra explained the prerequisites of the phenomenon.
 
 You don’t get squares like Kotla all around the world. According to a member of the senior Indian team management, the absolute need to get the ball to reverse is notional. “You can’t just depend on reverse-swing outside the sub-continent. Even if the conditions become conducive to reverse-swing, it will take at least around 50 overs to happen. You can’t force it,” he explains.
 
 “Even if you forcibly prepare the ball like how the Australians tried to do, there are too many other 
 factors to rely on. Yet, the Australians failed to get it to go the other way. Skill and overhead conditions are equally important.”
 
 The fallacy here is the priority to roughen up one side of the ball. Polishing the ball is the art. The umpire offers from his experience of observing the players. “The ones who use their fingers to hold and polish the ball, are the ones preparing the ball. Holding the ball in the sweaty palms makes the ball equally heavy on the rougher side.”
 
 The member of the Indian staff gives away the ‘preparing’ tactics in times of ‘desperation’ -- of bowling bouncers and cross-seam deliveries. “Wasim Akram’s reverse-swing was more potent because he bowled all kinds of deliveries with the old ball. Zaheer Khan introduced the length-ball form of it. If the ball doesn’t reverse, it can always swing the conventional way.”
 
 Reverse-swing is a phenomenon riding on the tricky art of ‘preparing the ball’. At the moment, however, Steve Smith and his leadership group, have reduced it to ugly, clumsy tampering. 
 
 
