PANAJI: Keeping in mind the annual 15% growth in domestic passengers, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) plans to increase the capacity of Goa International   to handle 7 million or 70 lakh passengers per year. The work to extend the integrated airport terminal is estimated at Rs 240 crore and will benefit domestic passengers and tourists.

 AAI has already moved to select a consultant for the project, and in the meanwhile has started demolishing the old airport terminal, which has been lying unused ever since the new airport terminal was inaugurated in December 2013.
 
 Goa’s lone airport was designed to handle 50 lakh passengers per year, but footfalls at the airport have far surpassed the figure. As per AAI officials, the airport handled 64 lakh passengers in 2016, a number that crossed 70 lakh in 2017.
 
 Airport director B C H Negi told TOI, “We have plans to extend the terminal building to cater to two million additional passengers, because we have already crossed the designed capacity, which was five million passengers. AAI is handling seven million passengers in the new terminal building.”
 
 Simultaneously, AAI has also commenced work to build the parallel taxiway, which will allow AAI to operate more   from the airport, which is part of the Navy airbase, INS Hansa. AAI received environmental clearance from the Union ministry of environment and forests on January 3.
 
 The Rs 125 crore, 3.7km-long parallel taxi-track is being built by Dilip Buildcon Ltd.
 
 “Domestic passenger growth is at 15% to 20% every year. We have decided to increase our domestic passenger handling capacity, because growth in international passenger footfalls is the same. The extension works would cost about Rs 240 crore and will be completed within the next few years,” Negi said.
 
 During peak tourist season, Goa Airport handles 131 flight operations per day and has just eight parking bays to handle these flights. The airport has a lone runway which is also used by aircraft to taxi back to the parking bays.
 
 Once the terminal is extended, Goa International airport will have three additional parking bays for aircraft. AAI also plans to procure three new aerobridges at an approximate cost of Rs 12 crore for the domestic terminal, which will further improve the turnaround time for flights.
 
 Presently, Goa International Airport has five aerobridges and during peak operational hours, flights remain stuck for want of a parking bay and aerobridge.
 
 The modernization plans are expected to take shape by end 2018 and by 2019 the greenfield   International Airport is expected to be commissioned. The proposed airport being built by GMR Airports will cater to 45 lakh passengers in phase one of the project.
 
 
