GURUGRAM: A   driver, originally from Bihar, was found   inside his truck near   on the Delhi-Jaipur highway late on Sunday night. 

 Around two days ago, the truck driver, along with another, had left for Delhi from Mumbai on separate trucks which were ferrying iron sheets. The other truck driver reached Delhi by Sunday. When he realised that his companion had not reached, he started looking for him and found the truck on the side of the highway with the driver dead in his seat. 
 
 As there were no signs of robbery, police suspect it to be a case of road rage.
 
 According to police, 31-year-old Guddu Singh, a native of Siwan district in Bihar, worked as a driver with Delhi’s Onkara Roadways. 
 
 The other truck driver Rakesh Singh reached Anand Parbat in Delhi on Sunday but Guddu Singh did not. Rakesh Singh called him several times but he was not answering calls.
 
 “When he last spoke to me, he was at Pachgaon Chowk. When he did not reach, I called him several times but he did not pick up his phone. I thought his truck had broken down and drove back looking for him. Around 2:00am on Monday, I found the truck parked on the roadside near Bilaspur. I peeped inside and found him dead in his seat with a bullet wound in his chest. I immediately called our truck owner who reached the spot and called police,” said Rakesh Singh who also works with Onkara Roadways.
 
 A police team from Bilaspur police station reached the spot and took the body into custody. According to preliminary investigation, Guddu Singh’s cash, mobile phone and the iron sheets in his truck were found in his truck, ruling out robbery.
 
 As per the complaint of Rakesh Singh, an FIR was registered against the unidentified assailants under Section 302 (murder) of IPC and sections 25, 54, 59 of Arms Act at Bilaspur police station. 
 
 Police have also informed Guddu Singh’s family about his death.
 
 “Guddu Singh’s brother-in-law has reached the police station. He claimed there had been no dispute between Guddu Singh and anyone else. It does not seem to be a case of robbery. The possibility of road rage cannot be ruled out. We handed over the body to the kin after the postmortem. A single bullet shot was found in the victim’s chest. We are investigating all angles,” said inspector Arun Kumar, SHO, Bilaspur police station.
 
 
