NEW DELHI/MADURAI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, though caught in the vortex of a controversy over the alleged assault on   Anshu Prakash, did not break his silence on the matter on Wednesday. In fact, he was not even in the capital.   left as planned for Madurai in the morning to attend the launch of actor Kamal Haasan’s political outfit, Makkal Needhi Maiam.

 At the Othakadai ground in Madurai, Kejriwal, who was accompanied on the dais by his AAP colleague Somnath Bharti, said he admired the actor’s courage in floating a party to fight corrupt forces. “I was always a fan of  , the actor. Today, I became a fan of Kamal, the real-life hero,” Kejriwal said.
 
 The Delhi CM is expected to return to the capital on Thursday. Otherwise very active on social media, Kejriwal’s timeline has not had a single tweet after Monday night’s meeting when Prakash accused   of assaulting him, a charge that plunged the already tenuous state government-babu relations to a new low. He did, however, retweeted party functionary Atishi Marlena’s post that asked: “1. Does anyone actually think that @ArvindKejriwal will plot to get an IAS officer assaulted? 2. And even if we stretch our imagination to believe this, would he get this done in his own home, in his own presence at 12 midnight?!!!”
 
 In Madurai too, Kejriwal refused to interact with the media people at the airport and hurried away to join Haasan's entourage, possibly to avoid queries.
 
 At the rally ground, the Delhi CM recalled the launch of his own Aam Aadmi Party and said, “The people of Delhi rejected both BJP and Congress and gave us 67 of 70 seats in the elections. There is so much of energy and hope in the people of Tamil Nadu that I feel that they will break the record of people in Delhi (and elect Haasan).”
 
 The AAP leader further orated, “The best quality of Kamal is his courage to speak up and fight against injustice and communal forces in the country.” Kejriwal added, “Till date, people of Tamil Nadu were stuck between two parties, DMK and AIADMK. Kamal offers an honest political alternative. Next time don't vote for a corrupt party. Vote for an honest party. Vote for Kamal Haasan .”
 
 Later, in his address, Haasan referred to Kejriwal's words and said the Delhi chief minister had virtually launch MNM’s poll campaigning.
 
 
