NEW DELHI : Despite expecting a   of Rs 3,350 crore in the financial year 2018-19, the standing committee of the   has rejected the commissioner’s proposal to hike betterment, professional and property taxes and proposed to levy night parking charges on buses kept on public land. 

 While presenting the 2018-19   and the revised estimates for 2017-18 on Wednesday, committee chairman Tilak Raj Kataria also demanded regularisation of all temporary sanitation workers. The cash-strapped corporation will need at least Rs 250 crore to regularise thousands of safai karamcharis, said officials. 
 
 The commissioner’s proposal was expected to generate Rs 550 crore annually. However, Kataria said, “We don’t want to burden the people with more taxes. We will generate revenue through other sources to make the civic body self-reliant.” A proposal was also placed to grant a 2% rebate on property   and licence fees to women entrepreneurs. 
 
 
  
 
 Taking a cue from the mohalla sabha plan, Kataria suggested that a monthly meeting be conducted with the residents’ welfare associations in each ward by officials and the councillor concerned. “We will discuss and understand their (RWAs’) issues and address them. These meetings will be attended by both officials and the respective councillor to maintain transparency,” he said. A fund of Rs 5.20 crore will be specifically kept aside to carry out works on public demand. 
 
 To adopt mechanised sweeping, the corporation may buy 104 ‘Jatayu’ mechanical sweeping machines.
 
 The north corporation has a liability of Rs 450 crore as arrears towards contractors and that of Rs 650 crore towards employees. Opposition leader Rakesh Kumar slammed the chairman as no proposal was brought to make the civic body self-reliant. “The corporation is going through a major financial crisis, but the budget lacks any vision or focus,” Kumar said. While the committee proposes to regularise all sanitation workers, he added, there is no talk about how the   will come to pay the arrears.
 
 Under the local area development funds, each councillor will be allocated Rs 50 lakh. While Rs 30 crore will be kept for development work in rural areas, Rs 4 crore will be used for Old Delhi. To reduce visual clutter, the corporation will install two-three poster walls for advertisements in each ward. It also plans to develop herbal, nakshatra and yoga gardens. 
 
 
