The stability of the Sri Meenakshi Amman temple, a portion of which was ravaged by a fire on Friday night, has become a cause of concern with the Madurai district administration forming a four-member team to assess the same. In this context, national president of the Association of Consulting Civil Engineers – India, Sanna Ratnavel, throws light on the aspect in an interview to Padmini Sivarajah. 

 Q: How do you view the stability of the Meenakshi temple?
 
 A: The temple is a climate-controlled structure and the stones used in most of the pillars are homogenous – monolithic, which make them highly fire-resistant and poor heat conductors. Hence, direct damage to the stone pillars — unless exposed to a specific temperature — is not possible in this instance.
 
 Q: What can destabilise them?
 
 A : Exposure to pollution, water and chemicals will affect their mechanical bonding and make them brittle. In nature, the mechanical bonds in stones below the earth’s surface become loose and then rejoin, thus restoring their stability. But for stones exposed on the earth, rejoining of bonds is not a possibility. So they have to be replaced once in at least 500 years based on their exposure to pollution.
 
 Q: How can a fire damage such structures?
 
 A : If there is a crack in a pillar there is a possibility that the intense heat during fire accidents can widen them.
 
 Q: Should these pillars be replaced?
 
 A: They have to be assessed for their stability and if found damaged, replaced after taking their photographs from all angles and replicating them as much as possible. Each pillar has a story to tell, so unlike what has been done with pillars around the golden lotus tank in the temple, every intricate detail has to be incorporated in the new ones. It is possible with the use of technology and machines if not man.
 
 Q: What do you think was lacking in terms of the temple’s maintenance?
 
 A: I don’t think periodic and annual risk management assessment is ever done for the temple. Many inflammable products, including plastics, paper and wood are sold in the shops uninhibitedly. All heritage monuments in the world undergo periodic risk management assessment, which is not done in this temple. Even mock drills are not conducted though it also has threat from extremists.
 
 
