BATHINDA: Frustrated after failing to get an appointment with Punjab chief minister   in 11 months, contractual employees in various state departments on Saturday, sarcastically announced a scheme to award anyone getting them an audience with the CM. They have announced different prizes including working free for anyone arranging their meeting with the CM, Punjab   president Sunil Jakhar or even Congress president   under the ‘Mukh Mantri Milao Inam Pao’  . The employees have been trying to meet the leaders seeking regularisation of their jobs. The contractual employees will also start a hunger strike in Chandigarh before the budget session of the state assembly. 

 As per the scheme, if anyone helps them meet the CM, 21 contractual employees would work for him or any organisation free for a day each. The person ensuring them an audience with Jakhar, would have 11 contractual employees working free for him for a day. Similarly, if a meeting with the Congress president is arranged, 51 employees would sacrifice their one-day salary.
 
 By printing flex boards of the scheme, the contractual employees took out a protest march in Bathinda. They also got a flex board of a tweet by Amarinder just before the assembly elections on January 24, 2017 in which he had written “Placing it on record again; once in govt. will regularize all contractual staff & no contractual recruitment will be made against regular posts.”
 
 Earlier on January 24, they had observed the anniversary of Amarinder’s promise by cutting a cake with his tweet written on it. There are nearly 27,000 contractual employees in 12 departments of the Punjab government. They are being paid between Rs 5,500 and Rs 12,000 as salary.
 
 “We have been waiting for a meeting with the CM for the last 11 months to remind him of his promise to regularise our services. But all our efforts have come a cropper despite approaching a number of leaders and government officials. Fed up with the endless wait, we have announced this mock scheme,” said contractual employees action committee secretary, Rajinder Singh.
 
 
