NAGPUR: Thousands of farmers from Vidarbha are facing a severe cash crunch as they are yet to receive payments for the   and   crops they sold to central agency National Agriculture Marketing Federation (NAFED) through   (APMC) of their respective areas.

 With the new kharif season round the corner, farmers have no money in hand to purchase inputs for the next crop, or to make repayments to clear old crop loans so as to get new short term agriculture advance. While those who sold tur got paid after a month’s delay, the chana payments are much more delayed, and have totally disturbed the farm economy in the region.
 
 “I sold 19.5 quintal of desi chana (brown) to NAFED, but till date I have not been paid for it,” said Sharadchandra  , a progressive farmer with 22 acre holding at Mangrul Dastgir in Dhamangaon taluka of Amravati district. NAFED purchases chana at Rs4,400 a quintal, the   fixed by the government. For this, the farmer has to first complete online registration and then take the produce to the market yard on allotted date and time. The payment is done directly to the farmer’s bank account through electronic transfer.
 
 “I am desperately waiting for the funds. I have to clear old dues of the dealer before he gives me fresh stock of seeds, insecticides and fertilizers for the kharif crop. Normally, by mid-May we complete all these purchases to avoid higher rates during last-minute rush time and shortages,” explained Deshpande. His enquiries with NAFED officials in Amravati elicited no response about the likely payment date.
 
 “At least 250 farmer in and around my village have not received payments,” he said, adding that when cash crunch had hit a better-off farmer like him, the position of small, marginal farmers could be much pitiful. He also complained that NAFED had refused to purchase the   chana crop, which commands double the rate of desi chana, from him.
 
 Meanwhile, chairman for state task force on farm distress Kishore Tiwari has expressed surprise over the trade notice issued by the Union commerce ministry’s external trade wing for importing 15 lakh quintals of tur and other coarse grains from Mozambique. “When there are large stocks in reserve, of tur procured last year and a good crop this year, the government should not import more. I have appealed to the Centre to immediately suspend imports,” said Tiwari.
 
 Tiwari also noted that the government has till date only procured 70% of the tur from farmers who had made requisite online registrations by May 15 deadline. Further procurement has been stopped by the state as it has exhausted storage infrastructure. The chana registration is open till May 20, so more arrivals can be expected.
 
 
