GURUGRAM:   has amended its policy to allow construction of an additional floor above   booths and service booths (small shops) in its markets across old sectors, in a move that is aimed at generating additional revenues and optimal utilisation of available space.

 The new rules will allow the owner of an existing shop to raise a first floor on its outlet by paying 35% of the circle rate of the allotted land.
 
 A Huda official said the scheme would be applicable to all allotted single-storey shops of the size 2.75mx8.25m and above. But, the first floor can be used for storage purpose only. “An allottee will have to pay a sum equal to 35% of the commercial circle rate of the sector in which his shop is located or an updated auction price, whichever is higher,” he said. “The move will help increase the number of shops in residential neighbourhoods.”
 
 Huda set up a market in each of its old sectors from 1 to 56, each housing on an average 50-60 shops, including 15-20 smaller ones. The amended policy, another Huda official said, would thus help Huda gain more from small shops. “There are a few or no takers for bigger plots and shops due to high price. On the other hand, small plots and shops are selling quickly. So the policy change will be beneficial for owners of existing shops and will also increase the value of unsold shops,” he added.
 
 Nevertheless, before starting construction, the shop owner will have to get the building plan for the proposed first floor sanctioned from the authorities concerned. Also, such an application should be accompanied by a structural stability certificate issued by a registered structure engineer. “The owner of the shop will be responsible for the safety of his own structure as well as adjoining shops,” said the official.
 
 Sources said the Huda was now also planning to auction unsold plots earmarked for small single-storey shops with a provision for construction of the first floor. “The reserve price for such unsold plots will be fixed soon,” said another official. 
 
 
