Nagpur: In blatant violation of Environment (Protection) Act 1986, tourist   are coming up in the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of   Wildlife Sanctuary, 180km from here in Pandharkawda tehsil of Yavatmal district.

 Two major players, including one Udaykrishnan Reddy from Hyderabad, have already constructed concrete structures on a 5-acre agriculture land, barely 100 metres from Sunna gate of the park, without the requisite permissions. Reddy could not be contacted.
 
 Khamir Joshi, a businessman from Gujarat, is setting up villas in 33 acres at Marath Wakodi, 4.5km from the park boundary in the ESZ. The constructions don’t have any permissions from both revenue and forest departments.
 
 The constructions are going on despite Tipeshwar ESZ notification stating, “Until the zonal master plan is approved, development for tourism and expansion of existing tourism activities shall be permitted by the regulatory authorities concerned based on the actual site specific scrutiny and recommendation of the monitoring committee and no new hotel/resort or commercial establishments construction is permitted within ESZ area.”
 
 Tipeshwar draft notification was re-issued on January 17, 2018, but prior to that the first draft was issued on January 7, 2016, when these lands were purchased by the current owners.
 
 Though forest officials should also be blamed for the mess, the violations came to light when the latest ESZ notification was posted at gram panchayat offices and curious villagers wanted to know more about it.
 
 “When we explained to them about what was regulated and not permitted in ESZ, the villagers told us about construction of resorts in ESZ,” says Pandharkawda deputy conservator (DyCF) KM Abharna.
 
 In Sunna, the construction activity was stopped in January while action against violations in Marath Wakodi was taken on Tuesday. “We found 29 teak trees were felled without mandatory permission for the construction of lodges. The logs have been seized,” said Abharna.
 
 On the delayed action, she says, “We didn’t know about it. In Sunna, permission was for tents but the owner built concrete structures, that too sans any nod and NOCs. Investigations have begun now.”
 
 Pandharkawda SDO Buvenswari S said her office did not issue any permission to construct lodges. “I’m issuing a show-cause notice to the concerned talathi and will also consult the collector for further course of action,” she said.
 
 Joshi says his site is 9.5km from the park boundary. However, Abharna says, “Our GPS readings put it at 4.5km. We have sought all papers from him.”
 
 According to Joshi, he had sought permission to fell the teak trees in May 2017. “Despite repeated follow-ups, it was never granted. Moreover, I got the green signal from the town planning authority to begin construction of the villas after which I also tried to seek the SDO’s permission in November 2017. Yet, again, it was not granted.”
 
 Abharna says, “Tree felling applications don’t come to me. I had received only one letter from Joshi in November last year seeking opinion on construction. I had written back that the site is under ESZ and only the monitoring committee will take a final call.”
 
 According to revenue department officials, Joshi received nod from town planning around February but he had started constructing the villas in December last itself.
 
 
