CHANDIGARH: While students in many other centres had to face certain frisking issues, two candidates whose centre was Government Model Senior Secondary School in  , had a horrific time which has now put their years of hard work at stake. The students alleged that they were not given enough extra time in the end as promised by the centre authorities after being given the wrong OMR sheets in the beginning which then had to be changed. The candidates said they could not finish the paper and are unsure of the questions they attempted under stress. 

 The school authorities denying the allegations levelled against them said they had given the extra time in the best interest of the students. But, the students complained that the time given in the end was not equivalent to the time wasted in the beginning.
 
 “I had started writing when the candidate sitting behind me raised the issue that the number of her OMR sheet did not match the question paper she has got. It was then that that I found that the OMR sheet I had was also not matching my question paper. Since the OMR sheet comes inside the question paper I never doubted it and filled it. On checking, it was realized that the OMR sheet I had matched the question paper of the other girl and vice versa. Since I had written on the sheet already they had to provide us with new ones now. All of this took around 15 to 20 minutes and hence we ran short of time,” said Akanksha  , the candidate from Panchkula.
 
 “While everyone had started writing the paper at 10 we were waiting for the sheets. We were already under stress. We got our sheets and started filling them at around 2.10pm to 2.15pm. We were told that we will be given extra time, but at 1pm the clock was turned down and we were constantly asked to stop writing which stopped us from concentrating on finishing the exam. At around 1.10pm our paper was taken. The direct answers that carry four marks were left. I had taken coaching for a year for this and now it seems to have gone in vain,” said Pallavi Thakur, who had come from  .
 
 “I have been studying for almost 17 to 18 hours since the boards got over and now this has happened. I feel highly disappointed and stressed. There is negative marking for wrong answers and since I had left direct answers for the end I was not sure if I filled their answers correctly in the OMR sheets. I just needed five more minutes. We started almost 20-25 minutes late and we were promised that extra time will be given,” said Solanki.
 
 The principal of the school Neena Sharma said, “I was keeping track of the situation. We were also concerned about the children and gave them time accordingly. We also had our limitations and could not give more time.”
 
 Rakesh Kumar, one of the observers appointed by CBSE said, “We knew about the situation and enough time was allotted to both the candidates in their best interest. We also have informed CBSE about it.”
 
 In the hope that something could be done, the two students kept waiting outside the centre for almost one-and-half-hour after the exam but were not allowed to meet the centre heads.
 
 CBSE’s regional director   when called said he was on leave and was not aware about the situation.
 
 Box: Students refuse to take off ‘kadas’
 
 In some centres it was said that metal detectors were not working well. At others, students were asked to open their ‘kadas’ after which high drama was witnessed as they said that according to high court’s order they could not be forced to take off their ‘kadas’.
 
 
