AHMEDABAD: The Bollywood blockbuster ‘Karan-Arjun’ not only lent names to these siblings but also the fate —they have got a new pair of parents after a gap of over four years!

 Karan, 8, and Arjun, 5, became the oldest siblings to be adopted from any city institution. On Sunday, a Delhi-based couple, Manoj and Rukmini, completed the formalities and made the brothers a part of their family in a ceremony organized at Shishu Gruh in Paldi.
 
 Mehul Patel, superintendent of Shishu Gruh, said that the brothers were found near   early in 2017. The children, at that time aged five and three, were wandering on the road. Police tried to track their parents but in vain. Later, they were sent to   and then transferred to the Shishu Gruh in June 2017. Medical tests proved that they indeed were brothers. 
 
 “A group of children was watching the Hindi film “Karan-Arjun” on TV and the children started calling the siblings by those names. The names got stuck and became official. They have been a source of energy for all the children,” said Patel.
 
 After a police report and unanswered advertisements in newspapers, the judiciary cleared their names for adoption early in 2018. But the officials were apprehensive. 
 
 Darshan Vyas, executive secretary of Ahmedabad District Probation and Aftercare Association, said that it has been every parent’s wish to adopt the youngest child possible due to the belief that they get quickly assimilated. Shishu Gruh since its inception has facilitated 77 adoptions of which majority take place before the child attains five years of age. “Adoption of siblings is not rare — a pair of sisters from our centre had been adopted about three years ago. But it might be the first case of eight- and five-year-old brothers being adopted,” he said, adding that the act will hopefully set a trend. Manoj, management consultant associated with a private university, said that he and his teacher wife had registered with   (CARA) in 2015. 
 
 “We wanted two kids from the start. Raised in a joint family, I believe that two kids are better than one,” he said. “When we were told that we could not have our own children, we decided to go for adoption. Due to the centralized database, we got information about the boys and we decided to pay a visit.”
 
 The couple felt an instant connect and the decision of adoption was taken on the spot as they spent some time with the brothers. “They have completed our family and lives,” said Rukmini.
 
 
