GUWAHATI: Chief minister   lay the onus of spreading the word on government's welfare schemes on  's yuva bahini (youth wing) as the party starts laying the groundwork for the   election next year. 

 "It is the task of the Yuva Morcha to make people aware of all government welfare schemes in every nook and corner of the state. They should also ensure that these welfare schemes actually reach out to people living in villages, tea gardens and char areas of the state," Sonowal said at BJP's Yuva Morcha conclave here on Saturday, adding that there are 26,000 villages, about 3,000 tea gardens and about 2,500 chars (sandbars) on the Brahmaputra. "These schemes are meant for people's welfare, and they should be able to benefit from them," he added.
 
 The conclave - attended by the morcha's president  , state BJP unit president  , state Yuva Morcha president Anup Barman, MP Kamakhya Prasad Tassa, ministers Pallab Lochan Das, Tapan Gogoi and Pijush Hazarika, and other office-bearers - was organized to mobilize BJP's youth wing for the Lok Sabha election.
 
 BJP insiders said central leaders of the party have identified mobilization of youth forces as one of its key strategies for the parliamentary election. Youth members of the party will be entrusted with vital responsibilities for the BJP's groundwork, the party insider added.
 
 Citing BJP's spectacular success in Tripura's assembly polls, BJP leaders said the party could take on   cadres effectively because of saffron party's effective mobilization of youth members at the grassroots level.
 
 "Like in Tripura, in Assam, too, we are implementing the pristha pramukh (page in-charge) model for the Lok Sabha polls in a big way. Youth wing of our party plays a vital role in carrying forward the model. The youth members of our party did it very well in Tripura, we are preparing our youths on the similar lines for Assam," a BJP leader said.
 
 Dass on Saturday also reiterated that enrolment of pristha pramukh will be taken up through a series of meetings in all assembly segments of each parliamentary seat from May 7, starting with a meeting in Mangaldoi parliamentary constituency on the same date.
 
 The state BJP unit is gearing up for party president Amit Shah's visit on May 20. Shah, who will attend the North East Democratic Alliance meeting here, is expected to lay out a roadmap for the target of 21 seats in the northeast he had set earlier.
 
 
