MUMBAI: Medical postgraduate course aspirants have a reason to cheer. The state got an approval from the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday to add 74 seats to the existing pool, taking the overall PG seat count to nearly 1,500.

 In a one-time scheme, the state had sought 300 seats last year (see box). While 200 were approved in 2017-18, this year, the state asked for 98 seats. Of these, the approval for 74 seats in state government and civic-run colleges arrived on Tuesday. It’s good news for the 6,000-odd aspirants as the addition will come into effect immediately.
 
 “These seats were increased on the basis of the numbers of professors and associate professors available in our colleges. Last year, the ratio of professors to students was changed from 1:2 to 1:3, allowing the state to increase the students under one teacher from two to three,” explained Dr Pravin Shingare, director,   (DMER).
 
 In 2018-19, the Medical Council of India (MCI) allowed 1,731 PG seats to be added in 166 government colleges across the country. The city too gained in the bargain as 24 valuable seats were approved in two civic-run and one state-run medical colleges (see box).
 
 Maharashtra was eligible to increase intake by 900 under the Centre’s one-time scheme, but it sought only 300 seats owing to limitations in infrastructure, including beds, hostel rooms. Such limitations led to some of the state’s leading medical colleges being denied permission to start certain PG courses. KEM, for instance, was not allowed to increase its intake of students for MD and diploma in radio-diagnosis. Sion Hospital too was refused permission for MD pathology. At the state-level, the Government Medical College, Akola, could not start as many as eight courses, including degrees in paediatrics, orthopaedics, general surgery, respiratory medicine. Nationally, a mix of 140 medical colleges from the private and government sectors was not allowed to increase PG intake in varied courses; 15 were from the state.
 
 “The proposals for the remaining 24 seats were rejected as some of the teachers did not submit proper documents. In some applications, research papers were missing, and in some others, journal articles were not attached. They will allow us to apply in the second phase,” said Shingare.
 
 Dean of Sion Hospital Dr   said once they receive the letters detailing the reasons why permission was denied, they will start working on rectifying them. “We will look into the compliance issues and apply once again next year,” she said.
 
