GURUGRAM: A four-member   team visited the   office in Sector 14 on Wednesday and collected ‘documentary evidence’ in connection with a 1,400-acre   that had affected hundreds of villagers in sectors 58-66.

 Though CBI and DTCP officials refused to divulge any detail, sources said the investigating team came around 10am and spent around four hours scanning files in the DTCP’s planning wing.
 
 They further said the team gathered evidence against three builders who were allegedly favoured during the land allotment in 2009, and officials who had issued notices for land acquisition. Also, the sleuths collected attendance registers of the period between 2008 and 2012 for all the staff, including junior engineers, additional district planner and district town planner, who were posted in   then. The agency officials also gathered documents regarding licences granted during the period in those sectors.
 
 The alleged scam dates back to 2009 when the Bhupinder Singh Hooda government had issued notification for acquiring around 1,400 acres in eight villages around Gurugram for developing sectors 58 to 66. The eight villages are Nangli Umarpur, Tigra, Ulhawas, Kadarpur, Medawas, Badshapur, Behrampur and Ghatta.
 
 However, a year after the notification, the Haryana government had released around 95% of the acquired land to private builders and even granted licences to some developers for building housing projects.
 
 In January 2014, the Punjab and Haryana high court had quashed the 2009 notificati-on, dealing a blow to the government as well as the city’s realty sector.
 
 Though the Haryana government had contended that 87 acres of land was acquired to construct schools, hospitals, community centres and other utility buildings, the high court had observed the builders were given land and it was their duty, and not of the state government, to provide for these civic amenities.
 
 In November 2017, a bench of justices Arun Mishra and Mohan M Shantanagoudar directed the CBI to probe the matter and submit a report before the court in six months i.e. by May 2. However, the CBI may ask for more time to complete the investigation in the matter as the agency is still in the process of gathering evidence.
 
 
