KOCHI: The horrific incident in which three women assaulted a person allegedly suffering from psychiatric problems shows that people still perceive insanity as a gross crime and not a disease that needs to be tackled and treated sensitively.

 The police arrested three women, Liji Augustine, Teena and Molly from Pallipuram in   on Monday morning for assaulting a middle-aged woman, who according to them was causing public nuisance.
 
  experts said it is ignorance of the society that leads to situations like this. "People are ignorant on how to handle psychiatric patients in public places. If one tries to overpower the patient forcefully, he or she will get violent. Forceful action may provoke the patient and lead to aggressive behaviour. If the police personnel are there, the patient will normally be ready to go with them to the hospital. Sometimes, police will have to use force to overpower the patient who refuses to accompany them," says C J John, psychiatrist.
 
 He said anyone showing symptoms of psychiatric illness should not be provoked or made fun of.
 
 A recent incident in which a man killed his neighbour's pet dog is another example of how   society is becoming intolerant and people cannot bear each other. 
 
 Kerala state human rights commission acting chairperson   termed the action by women as inhuman and insensitive. "The society should understand that psychiatric patients are in need of special care. As per the Mental Health Act, a patient produced before the magistrate has to be referred to a mental hospital for observation for a few days and further treatment. Here, the women took law into their hands," he said.
 
 Mohana Das said if the authorities fail to provide treatment to the assaulted woman, the commission would suo motu register a case.
 
 Doctors treating psychiatric patients expressed shock at the incident.
 
 "I have often heard stories of police using force to overpower unruly psychiatric patients, but the incident in which neighbours attacked a patient is unheard off. Usually, the police with the help of relatives take the patient to chief judicial magistrate court. The magistrate will send the patient to the hospital for treatment. After 10 days of observation we will give report to the court on the mental condition of the patient,'' said Dr   R, superintendent at government mental hospital in Thrissur. She said if the woman who was assaulted in Vypeen requires medical help they were ready to provide it at the hospital.
 
 After the incident on Monday, the woman had approached the government hospital in Munambam for treatment for injuries she suffered.
 
 On Tuesday morning, she left her home without informing anybody. She came back to Pallipuram by afternoon and was wandering in the area.
 
 "We had asked her relatives to help us take her to a psychiatric facility. When the police took her to a magistrate in 2016, she was allowed to go back with her husband as the doctor refused to give report certifying she had mental illness. She loses stability only for a few days and becomes normal after some time," said T V Shibu, SI, Munambam.
 
 Vypeen MLA S Sarma said he would speak to social justice department minister K K Shailaja to provide security and treatment to the woman. He termed the incident as merciless action on the part of the attackers.
 
 
