Any changes to your XI tonight?’ This question would invariably stump a foreign captain of an   team at the toss and it was understandable.

 
 
 
 A Steve Smith, for example, is justified to not remember the name of a lesser known Indian player who is cutting his teeth in IPL.
 
 The little known Indian cricketers are likely to be spared the embarrassment this season partly due to accident and a bit by design. With fortune having turned its back on Smith and David Warner,   will see seven Indians captaining their franchises barring Hyderabad, who have chosen to go with New Zealander  . Virat Kohli, Rohit Sharma,  , Ajinkya Rahane, Gautam Gambhir and   will pit their minds against each other to grab the top prize.
 
 
 
 
 The scenario, of course, has added more spice for the fans. The pundits, however, reckon this could be a blessing in disguise for Indian cricket.
 
 “It will help Indian cricket quite a lot. All these captains have got lots of experience of playing in this format at the international level. You will have more captains to choose from when you pick the team for this format of the game. It augurs well for Indian cricket that more and Indian more players are leading their teams,” says Dilip Vengsarkar.
 
 Besides this, the former India captain and selector feels the exposure will help the new IPL captains acquire a better game sense when they step on the field for India. “When they play each other in international cricket, it will stand them in good stead mentally,” he adds.
 
 Former India player turned coach Hrishikesh Kanitkar agrees with Vengsarkar. “It’s only natural that you’ve Indian captains in the Indian Premier League. In the Big Bash, you don’t normally see a foreign player leading a side. What’s even better is that like the IPL has thrown up new talents for selection, we’ll get to see more Indian players as captains. It will throw up captaincy material also.
 
 “Someone we didn’t think was a future India captain, we might learn that he’s a good captaincy material too,” he says.
 
 Four out of these seven captains — Kohli, Dhoni, Rohit and Gambhir have come to be associated with leading an IPL team for a while now. Rohit has won the title thrice, Dhoni and Gambhir twice, while Kohli has reached the final once. The real curiosity, clearly, revolves around how the other three, captaining for the first time, will deal with the pressure of being in the ‘hot seat.’ Ashwin, Rahane and Karthik will each have their own challenges to meet, their own demons to conquer.
 
 This trio needs to look no further than Rohit to know about how captaincy can transform your career. All three must be desperate to play in the World Cup in England next year, and know that the time to take a big step in that direction is now. Captaincy may give infuse in their game a sense of responsibility and confidence that may enhance their performance.
 
 It will be interesting to see how Ashwin, now out of India’s scheme of things in limited-overs cricket, leads a rejuvenated Kings XI with the presence of many of his India teammates. For Rahane, this could be the opportunity he badly needs to make a fresh statement about his skills as a limited-overs player. The Mumbaikar will also need to ensure that the Rajasthan Royals bounce back from the massive blow of losing Smith just before the tournament. Fresh from his heroic effort in the final T20 International for India, Karthik will be itching to fill Gambhir’s big captaincy shoes at  .
 
 ‘Fading Halo’
 
 Many teams’ tryst with a foreign player as a captain hasn’t turned out well, a coach associated with one of the franchises says. “Unless you have an inspirational figure like Shane Warne, it doesn’t serve any purpose to ask an overseas player to lead your team. If you check the IPL record, only three teams have won the IPL under an overseas captain — Warne (2008), Adam Gilchrist (2009) and David Warner (2016),” he points out.
 
 The ‘star attraction’ around the overseas players, he adds, has slowly faded out. “For the first two-three years of the IPL, there was a huge ‘halo’ around the foreign players. Slowly, people started realising that only four foreigners are allowed in one team. It’s the Indian players who win you a match. If a team doesn’t have good Indian players, it won’t win the IPL,” he says.
 
 
