Bengaluru: Two more labourers from an east Bengaluru construction site where an outbreak of cholera claimed two lives late last week were brought to St John’s Medical College Hospital on Monday.

 Twenty-five people were showing cholera-like symptoms at the construction site of Sobha Developers near Varthur lake late last week. They were rushed to St John’s hospital on Friday. Two of them died the same day. All the affected had been put up at one of the two makeshift camps on the site. 
 
 “Two new patients were brought in, and they are now stable. Out of the original 21 workers who were brought in, seven were discharged against medical advice as they still had diarrhoea. One of the patients is undergoing dialysis for kidney failure in the ICU, and his condition is stable as well,” said Dr Sanjiv Lewin, chief of medical services, St John’s Medical College Hospital.
 
 Workers at the site complained of unhygienic conditions, and said the water provided to them was stored in open tanks. Following the deaths, labourers have fled the camp in large numbers. 
 
 Dr Krishnappa B K, medical officer, Varthur Primary Health Centre, said the first water sample that was sent for analysis, tested negative for cholera. “We will get the results of the second sample only on Tuesday,” he said. However, this doesn’t mean that the water was not contaminated.
 
 “I visited the site in the morning and inspected the area. There were only 40 toilets for 3,200 people, when in reality, there should have been 300-400. Because of this, open defecation was also taking place. The kitchen facilities were also unhygienic. Further, the workers were living in cramped quarters, with up to 14 people sharing a single room,” said Sarfaraz Khan, joint commissioner, health and solid waste management.
 
 “The developers said they will rectify the situation, by building toilets and providing drinking water, and have already started cleaning the place. If this is not done, then the construction will be stopped. I will send a note to the commissioner on this matter on Tuesday, and he will take the final decision. We are still awaiting the results of the water sample analysis,” Khan said, adding that only 350-450 workers out of 3,200 remained in the camp.
 
 “We have filed a complaint with the Human Rights Commission about the condition of the workers at the camp. Another worker, who was admitted to the ICU in St Philomena’s Hospital, is also stable,” said Narasimha Murthy, advocate and human rights activist.
 
 
