NEW DELHI: In 2005, Ramadhar Singh’s wife, Bachan Devi, slipped into coma after an abdominal surgery. She never recovered and died five years later. Singh’s 12-year legal battle finally ended with the   in Delhi awarding him Rs 10.5 lakh as compensation. In a landmark judgment, the commission declared it a case of medical negligence while relying on the diagnosis of one of the doctors who was consulted after her condition worsened. 

 A bench, comprising the consumer apex body’s president Justice D K Jain, members   and M Shreesha, held: “The pathetic condition of the patient is evidenced in the treatment record and discharge summary of Dr S M Rohatgi. The contention of the treating doctor that the letter head of Dr   cannot be used for medico-legal purposes and, therefore, the prescription cannot be relied upon, is completely unsustainable.”
 
 Singh, who has travelled 15 times from his native Gaya, Bihar, to the capital, had alleged medical negligence on the part of Dr Sudhir Mohan Kant, who had performed total abdominal hysterectomy on his wife on August 14, 2005. “You see me standing here in front of you, but mentally, physically and financially, I feel dead,” he says. 
 
 During his wife’s comatose condition, Singh moved a district forum in 2006 and was awarded Rs 10 lakh as compensation on July 11, 2007. However, the state commission brought the amount down to Rs 4 lakh on September 30, 2011, when the surgeon appealed against the order. In January 2012, Singh — through advocates Shashi Shanker and Pooja   — filed a revision plea in the apex body. Devi was operated upon by Dr Sudhir Mohan Kant at noon, but failed to regain consciousness. She was administered oxygen as she had difficulty in breathing. After she remained unconscious till 7 pm, a second surgery was advised for which Singh was asked to sign on some papers. He was later told that she would regain consciousness, but never did. In a desperate attempt to revive his partner, Singh visited a dozen doctors, including Dr Rohatgi, in September, 2005. 
 
 Shanker asserted that Dr Rohatgi had, in a prescription, clearly written that a large amount of ether was used as anaesthesia before the surgery. “The doctor (Kant) did not take any precautionary measures of conducting pre-investigative tests with respect to blood, urine, blood sugar etc, prior to the operation and used large quantities of ether on account of which the patient remained in a lifeless state,” he argued.
 
 Dr Kant, on the contrary, blamed the anaesthetist, who had reportedly examined the patient and found her fit for administration of anaesthesia. The bench, however, noted the treatment record showed that the blood sugar, serum creatinine and other tests were performed only on the next day of the surgery, by when the patient was already in an unconscious state.
 
 In addition, for his loss of love and affection of a partner, the commission took into account the wife’s age, deprivation Singh had to suffer in terms of companionship, care and protection which he and his children could have got, and the pain he had to endure. “Amount awarded by the district forum of Rs 10 lakh deserves to be paid to the complainant,” the commission held, besides imposing a cost of Rs 50,000 on the treating doctor. 
 
 Of the total compensation, Singh was earlier paid Rs 3 lakh by the insurance company and, now, only the balance amount has to be paid to him by  .
 
 
