AURANGABAD: The villagers from   and adjoining areas, who visited   on Wednesday to inspect the civic administration's garbage treatment process, may allow treatment of the wet garbage at the old garbage dumping site in Naregaon. 

 At a meeting held recently at the divisional commissoinerate, the   (AMC) urged the villagers to allow it to dump 5,000 tonne of garbage that lay strewn across the roadsides in different parts of the city. 
 
 "The civic body pleaded with us to allow them to dump garbage for just 15 days. We asked them in clear terms to first install the machinery and then use the Naregaon dumping yard to treat the garbage," said  , one of the villagers from Mandki who visited the waste processing unit at Central Naka.
 
 Notably, the high court had recently directed the AMC not to dump further waste and restore the land to its original state by taking the help of technical experts to reverse the ecological damage caused by illegal dumping for 33 years. The civic body had challenged the order in the  , seeking permission to dump the waste for at least 3 more months. 
 
 The apex court too did not rule out a decision in favour of the civic body. Instead, it directed the state-level committee founded under the chairmanship of divisional commissioner to take appropriate action but only after taking the villagers of Mandki and other areas into confidence. The divisional commissioner held a meeting to discuss the issues on April 23.
 
 Gayake, who owns 25 acres in Mandki, said that there would not have been any issue had the civic body installed the machines. "We are not against the Aurangabad population, we know the problem they have been facing for the last two months. But we cannot allow the civic body to dump its waste for long and that too without any facility. If the civic body provides machinary and appropriate infrastructure, we may allow it to treat 5,000 tonnes of waste for 15 days," he said
 
 He admitted that the villagers who visited the Central Naka facility inspected the quality of the fertilizer generated from the waste and appreciated it. "We also agreed to use this fertilizer at our own expense," he added.
 
 Solid management waste officer   said, "We are in the process of reasoning with the villagers. Hopefully they will agree." 
 
 
