CHENNAI: Campaigning for the biggest event involving the entire legal fraternity, the   polls that happen once in six years, has reached the crescendo. In fact, it ended two days ahead of the March 28 polls across Tamil Nadu. Bar council poll is an amusing exercise. In the first stage voting happens for election of 25 members, who then will choose their chairman, vice-chairman and a Bar Council of India (BCI) member who would represent the state in BCI, New Delhi. 

 Polling is designed in such a way that unless a voting-advocate is completely clear about who should get his vote, and who should not get it, he will end up voting for the most unintended person. "Last time, I got the vote of an advocate who had kept me in the distant 23rd position in his order of preference," says outgoing chairman D Selvam.
 
 Each eligible lawyer is entitled to cast 25 votes, and the first preference vote is the most precious. "The total number of polled votes is divided by 25, and that figure will be the first hurdle to cross," said current BCI member and senior advocate S Prabakaran. For instance, if 40,000 votes are polled across the state, it would be divided by 25, and the resulting figure of 1,600 votes would be the bar to clear. "Candidates who reach 1,600 will all be declared elected," said Pabakaran.
 
 "The 25 top first preference vote-grossers will form a chunk and others who got lesser voters will start getting eliminated, unless their fortunes are shored up by second or other preference votes in subsequent counting," said former president of   (MHAA) RC  , who has toured the state extensively. "Chennai votes, coupled with outstation votes, alone would do the magic," he says. The current president of MHAA, G Mohanakrishnan, concurs. "Lawyers keenly watch the proceedings, and know which Bar leader would discharge his statutory functions in Bar Council satisfactorily," he said.
 
 This year, young Turks like   and   have done several rounds of intense campaigning promising change. Though nearly 90,000 lawyers have registered themselves with the Bar councils, only about 56,000 are eligible to cast their votes, as they alone have got their testimonials verified, practising and paid the necessary dues to the statutory body. There are 192 candidates in fray and about 170 polling booths have been set up in different parts of the state. The counting process may extend beyond a month, as each preference indicated in each vote has to be individually counted.
 
 Unlike Bar associations, which functions like union of lawyers, the statutory Bar Council is a regulatory as well as disciplinary body vested with enormous power. It has a decisive say in approval of law colleges and recognises courses and syllabuses, so each vote should be cast responsibly, feel judicial officers who have passed a series of verdicts to ensure that only the best and most suitable is elected as member.
 
 
