PATNA: Bihar chief minister   on Saturday said he had wholeheartedly supported PM Narendra Modi’s demonetisation move, but its benefits could not reach the common people due to the (dubious) role of banks.

 
 “The banks had to play a crucial role, but what role did they play? Is it not true that certain people managed to deposit demonetised currency in banks?” he asked while addressing a tri-monthly meeting of the State-Level Bankers’ Committee in Patna.
 
 Regional heads of the RBI and all commercial, rural, cooperative and private banks attended the meeting which was also addressed by state’s deputy CM-cum-finance minister  .
 
 Assailing the bankers for adopting different yardsticks for affluent and ordinary people,   said, “Big people have been escaping to foreign shores without paying back loans of Rs 10,000 crore whereas ordinary people are not getting even small credits of Rs 1 or 2 lakh.”
 
 “You are quite strict in recovery of loan from ordinary people, aren’t you?” Nitish asked the bankers though he didn’t name the likes of Nirav Modi.
 
 Responding to the bankers’ concern over safety of bank employees especially in the wake of recent murder of a Bank of Baroda manager in   district recently, the CM said the culprit behind the murder had been identified and steps were being taken to arrest him.
 
 He also said police have almost completed its investigation into the bank manager murder case. “We have received a report from the DGP. A person who was sent to jail on the charges of corruption, recently came out of the prison and hatched a conspiracy to murder the manager,” he said and assured the bankers that there would be no compromise on the issue of security of bank employees and officials.
 
 The CM also asked the bankers to increase the state’s credit-deposit ratio (C:D ratio) up to 50%. “The all-India C:D ratio is 78% whereas certain states have more than 100% C;D ratio,” he told the bankers.
 
 Nitish also regretted the banks’ non-cooperation in implementation of the state government’s welfare schemes. Referring to the students’ credit card scheme, he said the state government had assured a guarantee of Rs 160 against a loan of Rs 100. Still the banks didn’t extend their cooperation. 
 
 
