Bengaluru: The 14th Karnataka legislative assembly held sessions for 244 days in the past five years of the Congress regime (2013-2018).

 In 2012, the 225-member assembly made it mandatory to transact business for at least 60 days a year. However, sessions have been organized for less than 60 days in all five years.
 
 “As per norms fixed by the assembly, we should have conducted proceedings for 300 days, but the number was reduced due to various reasons. However, we can still take some credit because we sat for 41 more days than the previous BJP government (2008-2013),’’ chief minister Siddaramaiah told the legislative assembly on Friday, the last day of the session.
 
 Siddaramaiah expressed concern over the thin attendance of members and poor quality of debates during his tenure, which was widely reported in media. Poor turnout of MLAs has particularly been an issue during recent legislature sessions.
 
 “People have an impression that many lawmakers have been not been participating in the debates zealously and some also think that the usage of words and quality of debates has been deteriorating over the years. This is not done,’’ the CM said.
 
 At the council, he said the advent of electronic media and the increased coverage of legislature sessions has forced every lawmaker to be measured in his speech. “We can’t say whatever we want. We need to be more careful and use appropriate parliamentary language, keeping aside our differences,” he said.
 
 Siddaramaiah, who has over three decades of experience as a lawmaker said: “When we return after a few months, we should look at actively participating in debates and improve the quality of discussions. If we don’t use these powers and privileges, we have only ourselves to blame. We need to keep traditions alive to save democratic institutions.”
 
 ‘We will return to power’
 
 Siddaramaiah expressed confidence about the Congress returning to power for the second consecutive term on the basis of its good work. “No matter what allegations you make against us, we are prepared and do not fear any rival. We will come back to implement our budget proposals, including the loan waiver,’’ he said during his reply to the debate on budget. 
 
 The CM said he was not afraid of anyone, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He recalled his recent encounter with Modi in Mysuru when he arrived to address a public rally. “I sought his (PM’s) permission to deliver a speech in the BJP rally and say I was 100% confident of returning to power. But the PM grinned and left,” Siddaramaiah said. 
 
 Opposition leader Jagadish Shettar retorted: “Going by history, all CMs in Karnataka who announced they would return to power have failed to do so. You will soon join the list.”
 
 Perhaps my last day in chair: Shankaramurthy
 
 Incumbent chairman of the legislative council, D H Shankaramurthy on Friday bid adieu to electoral politics, saying he will call it a day on June 20 when his term as an MLC ends. “This will perhaps be my last day in the chair, and I am satisfied with the work I have done,” he said. Shankarmurthy said his biggest achievement was installation of the Mahatma Gandhi statue between Vikasa Soudha and Vidhana Soudha, and credited Siddaramaiah for his assistance.
 
 
