Pravin.Kumar@timesgroup.com

 Sochi ( ): ‘Atom on Wheels’, a campaign designed by an NPCIL communication expert who hails from Lucknow, won the top honours at AtomExpo Awards 2018 at a glittering ceremony here on Monday evening.
 
 The campaign which especially targeted the rural audience for creating awareness and dispelling myths about nuclear energy, received the award in public communication category. Other two entries in the category were from Hungary and Kenya. Gautam Biswan, executive director, NPCIL received the award from the chairman of the jury.
 
 A beaming Amritesh Srivastava, senior manager (corporate communication) who conceived the campaign, told TOI: “Atom on Wheels" is a unique tailor made public awareness campaign which is especially crafted for rural people to make them aware and educate about numerous aspect of nuclear energy and to dispel the apprehensions related to this. It was organised in 6 states of India, covering more than 6 lakh people in 1500 villages. The response was tremendous and people accepted this wholeheartedly.”
 
 "It’s really a matter of immense pleasure and proud to win this prestigious award for our country and organisation. It's dream come true for me to achieve this international award," he said.
 
 ‘Atom on Wheels’, the customised AC bus has travelled 1500 villages of Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh.
 
 It has creative panels, models, posters and multimedia presentations in local languages to help villagers develop a positive and rational thinking towards nuclear energy, particularly to build a constructive opinion for setting up of more and more   in a phase wise manner at various locations across the country. 
 
 In all, awards were given in five categories. There were participants from 22 countries and entries were judged by a 25-member jury panel, all world renowned experts from across the world.
 
 This campaign has already got many awards at national level and Monday evening got it the ultimate international recognition at what Rosatom chief Alexey Likhachev called ‘Atomic Davos’.
 
 (The author is in Sochi on an invitation from Rosatom, State Nuclear Energy Corporation of Russia, to attend the 10th International Forum ATOMEXPO 2018)
 
 
