SURI: With BJP and   engaged in a mad race to claim the legacy of Swami Vivekananda, the   doesn’t want to be left behind.

 The   Pradesh   minority cell will celebrate Vivekananda’s birthday on January 12 when purohits (Hindu priests) and imams (Muslim clerics) join a roadshow demanding honorariums for both.
 
 State Congress minority cell president Milton Rashid, the Margram (Birbhum) MLA, conceived the programme after holding a rally of Hindu priests in Bolpur, days ahead of Trinamool Birbhum president Anubrata Mandal’s ‘Brahmin conference’. Milton’s programme has got the go-ahead from state Congress president Adhir Chowdhury.
 
 “Swamiji is an inspiration to all Indians irrespective of religion. We have planned the roadshow on his birthday to spread this mess-age. The rally will start from Hazi Mohammad Mohsin Square and end at Esplanade. We will organise a human chain there amid a brief cultural programme and demand remuneration for Hindu priests and an increase in the allowance for imams and muezzins,” Milton said. He had posed a question on allowance for Hindu priests in the assembly in November. The state finance department’s reply is awaited.
 
 Milton’s move might raise eyebrows in Hindu circles, but the MLA was quite candid. “I have been to a number of temples, including the ones at Tarapith, Nalhati and Bhadrapur. They are part of our country’s culture, as other religious institutions are. I have witnessed the plight of Hindu priests. It doesn’t need someone to be a Hindu to take up their cause. I feel the state government should introduce some allowance for Hindu priests and enhance the paltry allowance for imams and muezzins.” 
 
 Chowdhury said: “We have an open mind. The Congress minority cell can take up programmes for the welfare of the common people.”
 
 Both the ruling Trinamool and RSS have welcomed the Congress initiative. Trinamool minority cell president Hazi Nurul Islam sees the demand for allowance for Hindu priests as a “provocation”. “Our chief minister (Mamata Banerjee) has an inclusive approach. She works for all religions. She is certainly thinking about introducing allowances for Hindu priests. We do not believe in the politics of provocation,” Nurul said.
 
 RSS state president Jishnu Basu said: “Better late than never.” Basu is opposed to giving cash allowance to the clergy — Hindu or Muslim. “I would urge the state government to stop allowance for imams. It will create political problems,” he said.
 
 
