PUNE:   police on Saturday   cash of Rs 70.80 lakh, meant to be deposited in ATMs, after detaining three men. However, the ATM cash van driver, who stole the cash on January 31 at Rahatni near Dange chowk, is still at large.

 A team headed by assistant commissioner of police Vikram Patil arrested the suspects, identified as Trimbak Ganapati Nahirale (37) of Beed, Amol Laxman Dhute (27) of Dighi and   (34) of Gevrai in Beed. Police recovered cash of Rs 17.50 lakhs from Nahirale, 3.30 lakhs from Dhute and Rs 50 lakh from Jadhav. 
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (Zone III) Ganesh Shinde said that the prime suspect in the case, the driver of the cash van, had distributed the stolen money among his friends before running away.
 
 Shinde said that the van was found deserted at Bhosari on January 31, while the empty cash box was recovered from a spot located at Shikrapur on February 1.
 
 The police team realized that the suspect had fled in the direction of Ahmednagar, Beed or Aurangabad and police teams rushed towards these towns, police said.
 
 Shinde said that their suspicion proved right and cash was recovered from the residence of a man, who is a friend of the prime suspect. Subsequently, the remaining cash was also recovered, police said.
 
 During the investigation, it was revealed that the prime suspect had taken the cash van towards Bhosari where the three suspects had arrived in a car. The suspects dumped the cash van at the spot and took the cash box away, which they dumped at Shikrapur.
 
 The prime suspect in the case is a native of Barshi in Solapur district and was employed with a security firm, which runs cash vans in the city and Pimpri Chinchwad. The cash vans visit different ATM centers with the cash and deposit the cash in ATMs of different banks. 
 
 The suspect fled with the cash van after another employee of the agency alighted from the van to visit a ATM kiosk located at Rahatni.
 
 The Wakad police team has launched a lookout for the suspects and visited different districts to track them down.
 
 
