AHMEDABAD: Some 186   flying from   had a narrow escape on Monday after a   of the plane forced it to land minutes after take-off. 

 The  ,  , took off around 9.21am from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) Airport and had to land at the city airport at 10.04am, said SVPI airport authorities. Manoj Gangal, the director of SVPI airport, said: “There was a technical problem with engine No. 2 because of which the flight had to head back to SVPI airport. All passengers are safe.”
 
 IAS officer Alok Pandey, who was aboard the flight, said: “Because of that episode, I saw the thin line between life and death. I was on the left side of the aircraft on a window seat and had barely begun to eat, some 20 minutes after take-off, when I heard a loud and shrill sound from beneath my seat.” He said the plane abruptly banked left and began descending. “The flight attendants who were serving food began moving the trolleys back quickly and my heart was pounding,” he said. “Three minutes later, the pilot made an announcement that one of the engines had failed and landing in Ahmedabad was being attempted with the other engine.”
 
 Pandey said the aircraft flew considerably slowly and landed at Ahmedabad. “During this period, every moment made me realize a new definition of life and death,” he said. Rupesh Dagar, the vice-president of a private hospital in Ahmedabad, who was also aboard the flight, said: “Those few minutes in the air were charged with panic and everyone was tense. Thankfully, we all landed safely. The second we landed, everyone said their prayers and applauded the crew and cheered.” Dagar said airline officials took good care of the passengers.
 
 
  
 
 The airline issued a statement, saying: “IndiGo flight 6E 244 from Ahmedabad experienced a technical glitch after take-off with its engine no. 2. The flight crew carried out actions as per SOP (standard operating procedure) and landed back at Ahmedabad following precautionary measures.” The statement went on to say: “The matter is being investigated by   safety team and the DGCA (Directorate General of Civil Aviation). The safety and security of customers, crew and the aircraft is the top priority and cannot be compromised at any time.”
 
 The runway at SVPI airport is under maintenance and therefore flight operations have been temporarily suspended from 10am to 7pm. As for the Lucknow flight on Monday, the airline made another aircraft available, which took off at 3.30pm. 
 
 Because of the circumstances, SVPI airport authorities opened the runway specifically for the take-off. “Since a few passengers had emergencies to deal with, we held a meeting with airline officials and took the unprecedented call to provide special approval for facilitating the take-off,” the SVPI director said.
 
 
