PATNA:   members on Friday created ruckus in both Houses of the state legislature over a media report which claimed the CBI had lodged a regular case (RC), which is similar to FIR, against party chief   in July last year in land-for-railway hotels scam despite the opinion of the probe agency’s legal wing that there was no evidence against him. Amid pandemonium, assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary adjourned the proceedings of the House till 2pm.

 Legislative council chairman   also adjourned the Upper House after RJD members, except leader of opposition  , stormed into the well and started shouting slogans, alleging that Lalu and his family members were falsely implicated in the case.
 
 In assembly, as soon as Speaker took the chair to start the day’s proceedings, the RJD members entered the well of the House and displayed clippings of a media report, which claimed that the directorate of prosecution, the CBI’s legal wing, had initially objected to the premier investigation agency’s move to file an RC against former railway minister Lalu in the alleged land-for-railway hotels scam. As the Speaker’s ruling was not adhered to, he adjourned the House.
 
 The RJD lawmakers maintained that the CBI had filed the FIR against Lalu, his wife Rabri Devi and younger son   despite the fact that it had “no evidence” against them. In the council, RJD members led by Subodh Kumar shouted slogans against the Modi government at the Centre.
 
 After the adjournment of both Houses of legislature, Tejashwi told media persons that he and his parents were implicated in the case so that CM Nitish Kumar could walk out of the Grand Alliance and return to the NDA fold. “The CBI acted under pressure. This kind of vendetta politics being practised under conspiracy by those at the Centre is neither good for the country nor for the opposition,” Tejashwi added. 
 
 In post-lunch session, the RJD members once again stormed into the well of both Houses and shouted slogans against the Modi government. As RJD members were not ready to return to their respective seats, both the houses were later adjourned till Monday. 
 
 
