Coimbatore: An official team lead by additional director in-charge of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) implementation Muthu Meena visited five village panchayats, including Karavazhi Madhapur (K Madhapur),  ,  .

 After they came to know about the arrival of the officials, more than 50 women labourers arrived at the panchayat office. The officials checked the documents pertaining to the implementation of the scheme and wages disbursed to the women.
 
 P Kamalam of K Madhapur told the officials that though she worked under the scheme for 32 days, she did not get any money. “Panchayat staff asked me to provide my thump impression on the nationalised bank challan. Without my knowledge, money was withdrawn from my bank account,” she said.
 
 District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) officials told Kamalam that the department had deposited money in her bank account and it was withdrawn also. They promised to conduct an inquiry with the panchayat staff and the bank employees.
 
 Subbathal, another labourer, gave her job cards to the officials for inspection. She told the officials that she was not paid for the work she did. After going through her bank account details, the officials found that someone had withdrawn her wages from her bank account. 
 
 The team will visit the village again and unearth the irregularities, Muthu Meena said. 
 
 “It will take two to three more visits to check all documents and interact with the people who are working under MGNREGS. We will continue our work on Sunday also. Many people, who have received the money, now say that they were fooled by the panchayat staff. We will go through the records and will submit a detailed report to the state government after completing our inquiry,” he told TOI.
 
 Expressing doubt whether the guilty will be punished, C Jayakumar, a resident of K Madhapur, said, “Many aged women were working under the MGNREGS scheme in our village. Most of them were uneducated. The panchayat staff collected their thumb impressions on bank challan and gave the women Rs 200 each.”
 
 
