A number of times, engineering students are in a melee over the fact about what is the best and the highest paying branch of engineering. While the experts suggest that students should follow their passion, it is always good to know that pros and cons of every field. Thus, students are advised to go for a course that channelizes their skills and gives them a good job opportunity as well. 

 Undoubtedly, engineering is one of the most lucrative and in-demand career choices, with a variety of engineering disciplines, job types and hefty salaries. However, students are often in a state of a dilemma when it comes to choosing the engineering major that attracts high pay packages.
 
 Here is a compiled list of 5 best and highest paid engineering branches with the reason why you should choose it:
 
 
 
 In the past 10 years, the IT sector of India has widely spread its wings and emerged as one of the most business as well as job sector. It is undeniable that every field, including banking, airlines, insurance, railways, hospitals, hospitality and so, there is a requirement of a software solution. Innumerable devices are produced in every sector from automobile to aerospace and all of it needs microprocessor control, which is software driven. It is not only development or coding of these services and devices but also testing and lifetime support, which needs CSE engineers in drove. 
 
 Thus, the demands for the people with knowledge in the field are forever going to be in demand. The major chunk of jobs offered in India, every year, is for CS engineers only.
 
 
 Salary for freshers in this field varies from Rs 2.5 Lakh to Rs 8.5 Lakh PA for jobs in India by major MNCs. Moreover, this can go up to Rs 1 Crore PA for jobs offered to IITians by big brands like Facebook, Google and Twitter.
 
 
 
 
 Mechanical Engineering is considered as one of the most traditional forms of engineering that includes working in heavy manufacturing industries, such as steel, metal and automobiles. All these industries require a steady inflow of fresh engineering graduates. With the advent of automation, engineers are required to continuously monitor, supervise and fault-diagnose these systems. The Indian markets offer several job opportunities in the private as well as public sectors. Sectors like mining, defense forces, National highways, metro rail corporation, railways, heavy-engineering, shipyards, ports etc are some of the top employers for the mechanical engineers.
 
 
 For beginners, the salary range is from Rs 1.8 Lakh to Rs 5 Lakh.
 
 
 
 Back in the early 20th century, civil engineers were one of the most sought-after professionals in India, solely because of their immense contributions in building huge dams, bridges, ports, airports and railways. In this era of infrastructural development in terms of commercial projects, residential expansion, civil engineering seems to be one of the most promising fields. Recent reports also suggest that there is a dearth of civil engineers in developing countries. So those wishing to take up civil engineering after school can confidently go for it. 
 
 
  Fresher civil engineers in construction companies can get Rs 3 Lakh to Rs 5 Lakh PA.
 
 
 
 Electrical engineering is one of the ever-growing branches of engineering. Public sector companies like the NTPC is one of the highest paying sectors for the people of the field. In addition to this, electrical engineers play crucial roles in PSUs, manufacturing units and PSUs. One of the most recent offshoots of electrical engineering domain is the Electronics & Communication Engineers, who have good job scope in telecom brands and industry. 
 
 
  Fresher electrical/electronic and communication engineers can expect initial salary package of Rs 2 Lakh to Rs 4.5 Lakh PA.
 
 
 
 One of the rarest fields of engineering, Petroleum Engineering is a promising field that has no dearth of job opportunities. While the job prospects might not be as wide as others, it surely does have some very exciting branches that pay a whopping amount of salaries. One major reason for the high pay packages in this field is because of the lack of skilled labor. There are not many people in the field who are qualified to be petroleum engineers, who can manage operations in an industry that has its effects on geology, chemistry, economy and so on.
 In terms of employment opportunities in the public sector units like HPCL, ONGC, OVL and so on are some of the most sought-after sectors. 
 
 
 Salary offered to Petroleum Engineers lie between the range of Rs 3 to 7 Lakh PA in India.
 
