

 
 
 
 It has changed courtship in three distinct ways. First, it has changed how we meet. In 2017, the internet was the No 1 place where singles met their first date. That’s a radical change from a decade ago when people used to mostly meet at a bar, at school or through family and friends. Second, it’s changing the way we communicate. Humans have talked face to face for millions of years, and communicated using non-verbal behaviours like body language and the pitch of sound. For example, your partner says you pick dinner for tonight. You agree and say “yes, sure. Whatever you like.” But the way you say it…your body language and tone may suggest otherwise. Computer-mediated communication, like texting, emojis and voice chats, miss out on picking such non-verbal behaviours.
 
 During courtship, we go through a series of processes, like self-disclosure and exposing our vulnerabilities. Relationship scientists find that these help us understand a person better. But technology changes this. How do you express such emotions through texts? 
 
 If you don’t undergo these processes early on in a relationship, it may not last. Finally, there’s the issue of consent. In the US a lot of women on dating apps report that men send them nude photos. It raises the question whether they were solicited or not? 
 
 If you are on a date in a restaurant you wouldn’t flash your date. It would be considered highly inappropriate. But on a mobile platform, somehow people think it’s okay.
 
 
 
 When we look at relationships around the world we see that family members, including parents, exert an enormous amount of influence. This is true of most places but it may play out differently in each place. Even in the US, where arranged marriages are rare, family does have a say. If you speak to college students they will say ‘I will decide who I want to marry…but there was a girl that my mother didn’t like and we broke up’.
 
 Family pressures are particularly intense for women. Anthropologists call this the Daughter Guarding hypothesis. It is a concern around the sexual lives of young women because of the possibility of pregnancy and reproduction. From the family’s perspective, this control is positive as they are trying to protect them. But no one likes to be controlled, hence leading to conflict and tensions. 
 
 
 
 Scholars have different thoughts on why there is a growing single demographic in the US and throughout the world today. One thought is that cultural norms around marriage are changing (at least in the US), with somewhat more relaxed pressure to marry, especially to marry at a young age, and at the same time more permissive attitudes toward divorce and re-partnering. So, it’s not that over a third are perpetual singles, but that so many adults are moving in and out of romantic and sexual relationships. As to the high number of single women, some scholars have argued this pattern started with World War I when a host of new technological innovations reduced some of women’s domestic labour. As a result, they moved into the paid workforce and this began to change gender dynamics and availability around relationships. 
 
 
 
 I think it does this somewhat indirectly. Technology has given us the ability to search for what we most desire, to see countless opportunities, for everything from reconnecting with a past love to finding someone with the same hobbies. This has facilitated new ideas about what is important in relationships and how people prioritise what they want in a potential partner/spouse. 
 
 
 
 Put up a display photo with your pet, preferably a dog. The Singles in   survey that we did for Match.com found that two-thirds of respondents were more attracted to a person because he/she had a pet. You are viewed as someone who can love and care. 
 
