VISAKHAPATNAM: The aspirants of   posts have submitted a representation to E S L Narasimhan,   of the two Telugu states, requesting him to revoke the recent assistant professor recruitment notification and cancel the already conducted screening tests. They met the governor during his recent two-day visit to the city and expressed their views and concerns.

 In their representation, they alleged discrepancies in the notification such as roster of reservation, single notification for two-phase recruitment etc. They also maintained that entrusting the responsibility of recruitment process on the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission will also affect the autonomy of the varsities. They asked for issuing a renotification in line with the   ( ) guidelines with regards to professor recruitment.
 
 Earlier,  , an aspirant, launched a hunger strike in the Andhra University premises. However, he was evicted from the protest camp after a few days and transferred to  , where he continued his protest for a total of eight days.
 
 On the other hand, the contract faculty of Andhra University boycotted the screening tests in their protest against the state government for not fulfilling their long-pending demands. They claim the screening tests were conducted before justice was done to them, based on the report submitted by a four-member committee which was appointed to look into their long-pending issues.
 
 Aareti Mahesh, an aspirant, said the notification and screening tests are against the UGC norms. “The officials should consider a subject or a particular department as a unit while deciding the roster of reservations. But, the varsity officials clubbed several departments into one unit. They are even conducting one screening test for two phases of recruitment, which again goes against the UGC norms,” Mahesh alleged.
 
 He demanded the government to release a fresh notification according to the UGC norms. “The APPSC (Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission), which is conducting the screening tests, is a threat to the autonomy of the varsities,” he alleged.
 
 
