Dharwad: Stage is set for the three-day literary fest   to be held at the Golden Jubilee Auditorium of Karnatak University in Dharwad from Friday.

 Buoyed by the success of five literary festivals, the organizers of Dharwad Sahitya Sambhrama have made elaborate arrangements to ensure that the sixth edition will also be successful. 
 
 Dharwad Sahitya Sambhrama Trust president Giraddi Govindraj said the litfest aims at providing a platform for discussing various aspects of literature. Besides discussing literature, the ‘Sambhrama’ will also provide a forum for expression of different views and opinions on relevant contemporary issues in a healthy manner.
 
 “The Dharwad Sahitya Samhrama Trust does not subscribe to any particular ideology or ism. It will play the role of a facilitator for the people with different views and opinions to sit together and present their views. It is for the audience to take a final call. Hope the Sahitya Sambhrama will be a useful platform for representatives of different ideologies to come face to face and speak out. This is necessary at a time when it has become impossible for the people with different views to meet and talk with extremism playing dominant role” Giraddi said.
 
 The festival will provide a chance for the literature lovers to see and interact with renowned writers and artists and exchange the views on wide ranging topics.
 
 This year there will be sessions on ‘Are we creating new knowledge,’ ‘Kannada theatre: Tradition, transformation and future’, ‘Improvement of Kannada script,’ ‘Cultural policy of Karnataka government’, ‘Literature of Adilshahi era’, ‘Relationship between poetry and music’ and ‘Environment and sustained development’ among others.
 
 The session on Adilshahi era was the dream of slain scholar M M Kalburgi who had felt that not much had been written in Kannada about the Adilshahi and his rule in Vijaypura. Kalburgi wanted more light to be thrown on Adilshahi’s regime. Scholar Krishna Kolhar Kulkarni and Maulana Mehboob Rehman Madani will speak at the session while Girish Karnad will be the moderator.
 
 Since the year is being observed as poet Gopalkrishna Adiga’s birth centenary year, leading writers and artists will recite Adiga’s poems and Jayanti Kaikini will deliver a special lecture on Adiga. In all there will be 15 sessions apart from the inaugural and concluding sessions.
 
 The event will commence with Mayor D K Chavan inaugurating the book exhibition outside the auditorium at 9.30am on January 19. Minister for Kannada and Culture Umashri will inaugurate the literary festival at10am. 
 
 Historian Ramachandra Guha will deliver a lecture on ‘History and chauvinism’ at 11.30am. 
 
 Director of Kannada and Culture Vishukumar and Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation commissioner Major Siddalingaiah Hiremath will be the chief guests at the valedictory function to be held on January 21 at 6pm. 
 
 BOX
 
 There is space for 350 delegates in the auditorium. However, there will be anLED screen outside the auditorium and about 400 people sitting in a pandal can witness the proceedings free of charge. The proceedings can also be watched live on www.vividlipi.com/live-event and on vividlipi android application on mobile phones. For those in Hubballi who want to witness the proceedings of the litfest, arrangement will be made at BVB College of Engineering to telecast the proceedings live. Entry is free.
 
 
