Vijayawada: Multiplexes and malls in the city have chosen to ignore the new rules framed by the Union government to curb   of packaged drinking water. 

 The exorbitant prices of water bottles and other packaged beverages at malls and multiplexes continue even after the new rules have come into force from January 1, 2018.
 
 According to the new legal metrology rules, no identical packages should contain different pricing. The rule was brought in after the furore over exorbitant prices of water bottles at multiplexes and at eateries in shopping malls.
 
 After the new rules have come into force, the multiplexes started selling water bottles with different brand names. The beverage companies have introduced new products with different names and packaging styles. These bottles are priced exorbitantly. To avoid legal hurdles, they are selling water bottles at higher prices even in the open market. 
 
 However, there are no takers for these high-priced bottles in the market.
 
 The malls are now selling the high-priced water bottles instead of regular bottles that are available everywhere. The consumers are forced to buy the newly-introduced packaged drinking water as no other product is available for them in the multiplexes. The consumers in the city again have to spend Rs 50 on half litre water.
 
 Earlier, the multiplexes used to sell water bottles with separate labels printed with high price in the name of select channel. They hide behind the freedom to fix their own price and started printing different labels with different prices after the Supreme Court banned dual pricing on the same product. Now, instead of printing a label, they brought a different product altogether with a new name as the latest rule restricts them to set different prices for identical packaged products.
 
 A senior official in the legal metrology department, who does not want to be named, said that their efforts have gone in vain as the companies conveniently bypassed the new rules. The only way to curb this looting is to set new rules in licensing norms, the official observed.
 
 
