PANAJI: Calling for a collaboration between Goa and Maharashtra to tap the huge potential in agro-tourism, especially in the   region, agriculture minister Vijai Sardesai said that Goa’s   model could be emulated by Maharashtra and in return, they could share details on advances in agriculture made by them.

  This could in turn make the Konkan region a centre of agri-tourism in the country, the minister said, laying emphasis on the power of Brand Goa.
 
 He was speaking at the inaugural of the International Mango Conference held at the Regional Fruit Research Station in Vengurla which was organized by the Interdisciplinary Society for Advancements of Agriculture Sciences and Technology (ISasAT) and the Dr Balasaheb Sawant Konkan Krishi Vidyapeeth. Delegates comprising scientists, academicians, students, consultants, NGOs, farmers and policy makers participated in the three-day workshop.
 
  Sardesai said that both the neighbouring states have decided to work on various strategies while adopting new methods of mango cultivation which could help better the yield. He also suggested an integrated farming system approach for both states in the field on mango cultivation.
 
 Sardesai said that mangoes could be used as the ideal medium for doubling the income of farmers by 2022, a target espoused by prime minister Narendra Modi.
 
 The minister outlined the initiatives of the state’s agriculture department and the various hand-holding measures adopted by his department for the benefit of the farming community. 
 
 He also called upon international experts present at the conference to reorient their research towards solving the long-pending issues of the farming community.
 
 A stall set up by the directorate of agriculture at the conference venue showcased the varieties of Goan mangoes, the varieties from other states, hybrid varieties and their qualities. Also exhibited at the stall were traditional Goan value added products. Details were also provided to interested participants on avenues for establishing a forward marketing linkage.
 
 
