HYDERABAD: Soon, pregnant women suffering from folic acid deficiency and resultant anaemia might be able to avoid grave complications, including defects in their newborns and miscarriages. This, courtesy a new research by a Hyderabad-based scientist and researcher, affiliated with a Japanese pharmaceutical company, suggesting that chicken eggs enriched with folate can help resolve such issues.

 
 The study,‘Folate-enriched Egg: A Promising Functional Food and Sustainable Source of Bioactive Folate’, shows how egg fortification can be introduced in a cost-effective manner and be of help in cases of folic acid deficiencies, especially in pregnant women.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Folic acid is the synthetic form of Vitamin B9 and is important for creating red blood cells and help iron work properly in the body. Folate is another form of folic acid, which occurs naturally in foods.
 
 The deficiency of folic acid at a childbearing age or during pregnancy, experts said, can lead to birth defects in children including neural tube defects (NTD), in which the spinal column doesn't close completely. Folate deficiency can also lead to elevated homocysteine levels in serum, increasing the risk for cardiovascular disease. Other consequences of folate deficiency during pregnancy are cleft lip and palate, heart defects, limb malformations, pre-term delivery, low birth weight and miscarriage.
 
 “While in many countries like Japan, South Korea, China and  , chicken eggs fortified with folic acid are available in the market and provide bioactive folates, India currently has no mandatory food fortification programme with folic acid,” said Dr  , who carried out the study along with a team of experts, Utano Nakamura, Caroline Donzeli Pereira, Atsushi Yamatsu, Noriko Horie, Tetsuya Sako, Shizuo and Mujo Kim.
 
 Folate is present in chicken eggs which, when enriched with folate, is an alternative to increase the intake of natural folates and prevent folate deficiency. “To produce commercially available folate-enriched eggs, hens are fed with specialised pre-mix feed and after two weeks of feeding, these eggs are collected. The folate content of these eggs ranges between 70 to 100 µg/100 g of edible egg, which is more than three times the amount present in ordinary eggs,” the study stated.
 
