MUMBAI/AURANGABAD: Chief minister   on Thursday sent Aurangabad police commissioner   on   for a month after his force’s   against local   sparked a heated debate in the legislature. Last week, residents of Padegaon and Mitmita in Aurangabad who were protesting against dumping of garbage in their areas were beaten up by the police. 

 The CM also announced an enquiry against Yadav by a committee headed by the additional chief secretary (Home) and the report would be submitted in a month. He then announced sanctioning of Rs 86 crore to solve Aurangabad city’s garbage problem. 
 
 
  
 
 In a rare move, legislators of all political parties, including the ruling BJP and Shiv Sena, joined hands to raise the issue. Leading the charge in the assembly, leader of the opposition Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil alleged that the Aurangabad police didn't even spare women and children. He demanded Yadav’s immediate suspension and an enquiry by a retired judge.
 
 NCP leader Ajit Pawar demanded that Aurangabad municipal commissioner should also be suspended. Local MLA Atul Save (BJP) supported the demand. The assembly was adjourned five times amidst the ruckus. Later, the CM, in his reply, said, “"Considering the sentiments across the party lines and seriousness of the issue, the government has decided to send the police commissioner on compulsory leave.”
 
 The incident happened on March 7, when several garbage-laden vehicles moved in the direction of Mitmita-Padegaon to dispose of the waste amid police bandobast. Local residents resisted the move and allegedly started pelting stones to stop the vehicles from entering their area. In the melee, a few policemen and civic staff sustained injuries. The police subsequently launched a crackdown on the protesters, which included an all-out combing operation in the several colonies of these areas.
 
 A day after the violence, CCTV footage of cops pelting stones at houses went viral. CCTV cameras installed at a house in the area clearly show a woman constable picking up stones and pelting them at houses. 
 
 In the legislative council NCP leaders Dhananjay Munde and Satish Chavan raised the issue, demanding action against the civic body and the police.
 
 Replying to a debate in the council, the CM said a detailed project report (DPR) would be prepared with the objective of solving the garbage disposal problem in three stages within a year. “Aurangabad produces 430 tonnes of garbage a day. I sent the principal secretary, Urban Development, to Aurangabad and gave a five-point plan to resolve this issue. As much as 76% of the 5,420 tonnes of garbage (accumulated in the city since the start of this month) has been collected and the remaining will be collected by March 17,” Fadnavis said. In future, the state government will not approve allotment of land for garbage dumping, he said adding that land would be allotted only for segregation and processing of garbage.
 
 
