KOLKATA: The politics of vandalism reached Kolkata on Wednesday when seven members of ultra-left students’ organisation Radical damaged and sprayed black paint on Bharatiya Jana Sangh (BJS) founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee’s bust, near the   crematorium in Kalighat, before being overpowered by local residents and cops.

 Wednesday’s move, which caught cops off guard and took Bengal’s political mainstream by surprise, was in retaliation to the recent vandalism of Lenin’s statues in Tripura after the BJP came to office, Radical members said. The ultra-left group has a presence in Jadavpur University’s Arts faculty and has engaged cops in anti-government movements, most recently during the Nonadanga anti-land acquisition stir.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Mookerjee founded the BJS, the BJP’s forerunner in Indian politics, in 1951 after quitting the Jawaharlal Nehru cabinet and his politics is considered to be one of the cornerstones of the BJP’s ideology.
 
 The incident occurred around 7.15am, when gardeners were busy tending to plants inside the park in front of the crematorium. No one noticed the seven, who carried posters and spray-paint cans, as they sneaked in. One of them kept his Facebook page open and continued uploading videos.
 
 Two of the other six clambered on to the podium, on which the bust was installed, and hammered away at the bust, defacing its right side. One of them took out a spray-paint can and painted the face black. Even as this was going on, his friends started shouting slogans that referred to the destruction of Lenin’s statues in Tripura.
 
 The gardeners were the first to intervene. Local residents — most of whom were at the various roadside tea stalls in the neighbourhood — followed them, closing the park’s gate and preventing the Radical members from fleeing. Cops reached the spot in 15 minutes and rounded up the seven.
 
 “We have defaced the bust to protest against the destruction of Lenin’s statues in Tripura,” the group’s leader, former JU student Avishek Mukherjee, said. Officials said he had been arrested earlier by Kolkata Police’s Special Task Force for being suspected involvement in Maoist activities.
 
 A tussle between Trinamool Congress and BJP leaders followed the politics of vandalism. A team of BJP workers was the first to reach the spot and protest against the defacement. They were followed by a band of Trinamool workers, led by Rashbehari MLA and state minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay.
 
 “We condemn these acts of vandalism and want the guilty to be punished. We will ensure that the bust is restored to its earlier glory,” he said. Chattopadhyay left and was followed by a team from the Trinamool-ruled Kolkata Municipal Corporation. Workers washed away the black paint and put up screens all around. State education minister Partha Chatterjee later condemned the act: “Those who have defaced Syama Prasad Mookerjee’s bust are against Indian culture.”
 
 BJP state president Dilip Ghosh, apparently not satisfied with all this, later said that BJP workers would wash the bust “with milk”. “We chased them out of JU once,” he said, referring to a clash a couple of years ago. “It seems that was not lesson enough. Nobody can guarantee their security after they are out of police custody,” he threatened, condemning the Trinamool for “reintroducing the culture of vandalism in the city” when it vandalised Lenin’s   at Jadavpur in 2011.
 
 Police commissioner Rajiv Kumar later Tweeted that seven persons had been arrested. “No vandalism would be tolerated,” the Tweet read. The six arrested, besides Avishek Mukherjee, were Biswaroop Pramanik, Surajit Das, Subrata Ghosh and JU students Debjit Bhattacharya, Deb Chakraborty and Jubi Saha.
 
 
