NEW DELHI: At 27,   was already a veteran in the powerlifting circuit. But for the accident that snuffed the life out of four of his companions, along with his own, he would likely be celebrating the birth of his first child. 

 “All six of them (who met with the accident in Alipur) were dear friends and stuck together through thick and thin. Who knew they would be together even in their last moments,” rued a tearful Poonam, Tikamchand’s elder sister. “Tikamchand had planned to spend his birthday at home, as his wife was expected to deliver on Monday. We had never imagined that he would leave us like this — that too on his own birthday,” she said. 
 
 Among the deceased was Yogesh, Tikamchand’s brother-in-law and a regular at state-level powerlifting championships for the last two years. He was to tie the knot in 15 days. “Everything was in place and celebrations had already begun. We were so excited. His death has broken everyone’s spirit,” Ravi, a relative, said.
 
 For other affected families, too, it was an evening of celebration that turned awry. 
 
 Gaurav, brother of 18-year-old Saurabh Kashyap, a budding powerlifter, said: “I came to know about my brother’s death only when I reached the hospital. Yogesh’s family got a call about the incident and since I had a car, they woke me up and asked me to take them to hospital. Along the way, I was trying to console them. Little did I know that I would get to see my own brother’s body on a stretcher.” 
 
 He added: “None of them had told us about the party, or any other plans for the night. From the missed call alerts, I found that Saurabh had called me at 1am, but I was fastasleep by then.”
 
 When Saksham Yadav, who won gold in the 2016 and 2017 world powerlifting championships, was brought to AIIMS Trauma Centre in the morning, doctors weren’t sure whether he could be saved, such was the extent of his head injuries. Later in the evening, he, too, succumbed to his injuries. Waiting outside the ICU, his father recalled how excited Saksham was about the upcoming world championships. 
 
 Sunil Lochab, Saksham’s coach, was equally shaken. He had spent most of Saturday evening at a felicitation ceremony for Saksham. “Being sportspersons, they have very tight schedules and refrain from consuming alcohol, or partying late. Sunday was an exception. I wish I had stopped them like I always did,” he said. 
 
 Rahul Minocha, a common friend, was lucky that he cancelled his plan to join them at the last moment. “Since I don’t eat out and had to leave for work early the next day, I went back home instead,” he said. “A couple of hours later, I woke up to a call from Saksham’s father.”
 
 
