GURUGRAM/CHANDIGARH: To end the fortnight-long strike of   in support of their demands, the Haryana government on Wednesday set up a committee under the chairmanship of urban local bodies’ minister Kavita Jain. The panel will hold meetings with leaders of the striking workers regarding their demands.

 The committee will also comprise minister of state for social justice and empowerment Krishan Kumar Bedi and minister of state for cooperation   as members. They will be assisted by a team of officers in the meeting with the strike leaders to discuss all issues and end the strike at the earliest, Bedi said on Wednesday.
 
  Talks between government and the striking employees have failed on two occasions in the past. 
 
 Major demands of the strikers include regularisation of contractual employees, minimum salary of Rs 15,000 per month, implementation of cashless medical facilities for contractual employees, increasing allowances of both permanent and contractual employees, risk allowance and better safety equipment for those engaged in cleaning sewers. 
 
 Meanwhile, tonnes of garbage lay scattered on the city’s streets, as the sanitation workers’ strike entered its 15th day on Wednesday. 
 
 Protesters said government has gone back on its election promises, which include equal pay for equal work and reintroduction of the old pension scheme. The situation in Zone 2 is particularly grim, with garbage accumulated in heaps around Jacobpura, Sheetla Hospital, Bhim Nagar fire station, New Colony church and several other areas. 
 
 The accumulating trash has also raised health concerns. “We’re scared our kids will fall sick from the stench of the garbage heap close by,” said Jacobpura resident  . In an unprecedented move, a team of   officials, under police protection, removed garbage from the Sadar Bazar dumping site on Tuesday night. 
 
 On May 23, TOI had reported of MCG officials claiming they were threatened by striking workers not to pick up garbage. Gurugram vice-president of Nagar Palika Karamchari Sangh, Ram Singh, said they have not been contacted by authorities, nor have they got any assurances till now. “We’ve asked staff removing garbage not to do it, as our demands will only be heard if the waste stays on the streets. The allegation that we have threatened or harassed anyone is baseless,” Singh said.
 
 An MCG spokesperson said on Tuesday night, garbage was picked up from near Civil Lines with police cover. “Garbage cleaning will continue to take place at night. If there is need for police protection, it will be availed,” he said.
 
 
