CHENNAI: In the light of a threat from the T T V Dhinakaran camp looming large in the trial of strength in the assembly - whenever it happens - the ruling   is looking for support from beyond its own MLAs. 

 Apart from   reserved constituency MLA A Prabhu, who crossed over to the T T V Dhinakaran camp on Friday, there could be three more AIADMK legislators waiting to vault over to the rebel camp, said sources in the party. "CM ( ) is not leaving anything to chance. A group of senior ministers headed by S P Velumani and P Thangamani have been assigned the task of keeping the flock together. Ever since this government took over, many MLAs have been flexing muscles. Obviously, not all demands of the MLAs can be met, and some members have slipped through our fingers," said a senior leader.
 
 Prabhu's revolt is a setback and a big embarrassment for the party, especially the government is on a razor edge, awaiting the high court verdict on the disqualification of 18 legislators owing allegiance to TTV. "But we do not expect it to trigger any exodus, primarily because no one in the party is ready for another assembly election at this stage," said the leader.
 
 The timing of Prabhu's revolt is interesting, because Dhinakaran has triggered it a day before Prime Minister  's visit to Chennai. "Dhinakaran's objective is to expose Palaniswami's weakness before Modi," said political analyst M Kasinathan.
 
 Senior ministers are reaching out to some opposition legislators with whom they have personal rapport.   whip Vijayadharani's visit to the assembly speaker's office to thank him for unveiling Jayalalithaa's portrait in the assembly recently had triggered a war of attrition within the Congress. AIADMK leaders are pinning their hopes on some DMK legislators too. They feel some DMK MLAs could be encouraged to abstain from the assembly during the trial of strength. How far they would be successful in this is a big question mark, given M K Stalin's firm grip on the party.
 
 Not just the AIADMK, the DMK too is concerned about a possible churning in the electoral matrix once Kamal Haasan and Rajinikanth hit the ground full throttle, said Kasinathan. "Emergence of TTV as a force to reckon with in the R K Nagar byelection is another concern for all in case the state goes to polls. Even Stalin may want to buy more time to gauge the impact of the new players on the voters' psyche. The DMK is equally cautious not to push the state into governor's rule, which could extend beyond six months," said Kasinathan.
 
 
