GURUGRAM: All three   who had examined the pregnant woman who delivered a stillborn in an ambulance inside   premises on Wednesday, were placed under suspension late Thursday evening. Earlier in the day, the deputy commissioner had ordered the medical negligence board to probe the incident, in which Civil Hospital authorities recommended Sonia (29) to   in Delhi, even though she was in advanced labour. The probe was to check if there was any negligence on part of doctors who had treated the woman, said   Dr Pradeep Sharma at Civil Hospital.

 The standard practice at the hospital is that cases involving expectant mothers with very low haemoglobin count are to be transferred to a tertiary medical facility, in this case Safdarjung Hospital. The probe will primarily focus on what happened between 9.10am — when Sonia was referred to Delhi, and 9.55am — when she delivered in the ambulance.
 
 According to the ambulance driver’s statement, the transport got delayed as he had been instructed to take two more patients to Delhi, and made to wait for one of them.
 
 On Thursday, the doctors who had referred Sonia to Delhi, deposed they had followed gynaecology department norms, including that Civil Hospital doesn’t have packed red blood cells available on demand, which is necessary for rapid blood transfusion in case of anaemia, which Sonia had. “If we transfuse blood directly, there’s a risk of heart attack in these cases, so packed red blood cells are used,” said a senior doctor.
 
 Speaking about medical cases that Civil Hospital, a secondary health care centre, can’t treat apart from low haemoglobin, they said the hospital doesn’t have a ventilator to deliver premature infants under 28 weeks of pregnancy. Further, the hospital can’t handle cases where the mother has very high blood pressure (preeclampsia), as it would require intensive care which the hospital’s ICU doesn’t have.
 
 According to sources, with only two surgeons to perform emergency C-Sections, the gynaecology department is also overburdened. Two other surgeons are on child care leave, and another staff doctor can’t operate due to a medical condition. Lack of new appointments is another worry.
 
 On Wednesday morning, the woman was made to wait for two hours and a half, before   doctors examined her. Both doctors who examined her chose to send her off to Delhi, even though she had started to crown, with a fist of the infant also out. She delivered 45 minutes later, and the infant died.
 
 Another senior doctor, speaking on condition of anonymity, said, “When doctors refer emergency patients elsewhere, they need to ensure the patient gets transported right away.”
 
 On Friday evening, state health minister Anil Vij tweeted from his verified Twitter handle: “Three doctors suspended and enquiry ordered into negligence in delivery case at Gurugram Civil Hospital”.The CMO confirmed that Dr Jyoti Dabas, Dr Akshita and Dr Harpreet Kalsi have been suspended.
 
 
 
