KOCHI: With the   about to set in, the hospitals in the district has witnessed 785   on Monday alone.

 
 This is probably the first sign of things to come in the next few days as   continue to lash the city for the fourth consecutive day.
 
 According to data with district medical officer (DMO), on an average 600 to 650 people went to hospitals daily in early May with complaint of fever in the district. But in the last three to four days it touched
 
 700.
 
 “Majority of those who come to the hospital complain of cold and high fever,” said Ernakulam General Hospital RMO Dr Cyriac P J.
 
  Dr N K Kuttappan also said, “May to August is the time that we get to see maximum number of fever cases in the district,” said Dr Kuttapan.
 
 The DMO has already issued an advisory and asked the government hospitals to start a fever ward and fever clinic in the hospital.
 
 Also, they have been asked to ensure that no patient is denied admission due to lack of space.
 
 Health officials are also creating awareness in residential areas to keep the premise clean to avoid water-borne diseases. From January to May 26, 2018, the district has seen 62,154 cases of fever.
 
 While in April there were 11,020 cases of fever, it climbed to 12,522 cases in 26 days in May.
 
 
  
 
 There are 25 confirmed cases of hepatitis A with maximum of 12 cases being reported in May.
 
 As many as 20 confirmed cases of dengue were reported in May. No typhoid case has been reported in the district. There are 37 cases of malaria so far, this year.
 
 All the hospitals have been asked to immediately inform the DMO if they come across any case of waterborne diseases. Any unusual reporting or outbreak need to be immediately reported by even private hospitals, the official added.
 
 Health authorities fear that if people in waterlogged areas don’t take precaution, then it may become a breeding ground for mosquitoes leading to outbreak of malaria and dengue.
 
 “We fear that with monsoon, the number of fever cases may go up despite all necessary precautions. It is important that people keep their surroundings clean and if you have fever, you should immediately contact a doctor rather than opt for self- medication,” added Dr Kuttapan.
 
