JAIPUR: After the   announced the   and   due to alleged question paper leak, students, parents and teachers are predictably disappointed.

 Sangeeta Kain, principal of DPS, Jaipur, said the announcement was terrible news for students. Many students who were travelling abroad or had made their holiday plans are all returning back now. “The situation is really difficult. But instead of criticising the CBSE, we should get to the bottom of the problem. The board is doing what is in its power. We are also sending schedules to our students on Monday about extra classes to help them as it is not easy to start studying from scratch,” she said.
 
 The CBSE has not yet announced the dates of the exam but sources said that the CBSE would need at least a month to print the questions and answer paper sheets and transport them across the country.
 
 According to procedure, the question and answer sheets should reach examination centres at least 15 days before the exam which is not possible before April.
 
 Susai Manickam, the principal of St Anselm School, Ajmer, said that the CBSE’s decision has sent shock waves to many students and parents. “This news has put us on our toes. Since afternoon, the school has been receiving calls from parents and students asking for updates on the CBSE order. In fact, in the evening, around 50 students came to school to enquire about it,” said Manickam.
 
 He fears that this would have a drastic impact on students appearing for the IIT advance exam which is scheduled on April 8. This is likely to delay the results and the admission process in colleges.
 
 Officials at coaching institutes too believe that a re-examination will hinder the preparations for various entrance exams. Nitesh Sharma, public relation officer of Allen Allen Career Institute in Kota, said, “It will have a great impact on students appearing for IIT advance. They now have to focus on both exams at the same time. The admissions in coaching institute start in the first week of April. But due to this decision, we fear that the students will join only after the exam which will affect our schedule.”
 
 Rohan Meena, a Class X student, is among those who will be appearing for the exam. “This is really shocking for me and my parents. I was also planning to take admission in Kota coaching institute from April, but now we know the results will be delayed. Officials should be more careful as our future is at stake. The culprits should be punished,” he said.
 
 This year, more than 3.24 lakh students have appeared for the board exam in Ajmer region. Of these, 1,81,304 lakh students appeared for Class X while 1,43,228 appeared for Class XII examinations.
 
 
