BHAGALPUR : With a view to pressurising the state government to upgrade Naugachia sub-division to a full-fledged revenue district, Bhagalpur   MP   aka   took out a rally from Rangra Chowk to Narayanpur in Naugachhia on Tuesday.

 Hundreds of RJD workers along with some local residents accompanied the RJD MP.
 
 Momentum to the cause got a fillip when former deputy chief minister   had visited Bhagalpur in September, 2016 and several RJD leaders from Naugachia had sought his intervention in upgrading the sub-division to a revenue district. RJD MP Shailesh had also submitted a memorandum to   while apprising him about the demands of the people.
 
 Naugachhia, spread around 16,3,988 hectares and surrounded by rivers like Ganga, Kosi and its tributaries was made a sub-division on November 24, 1972. Even as it became a sub-division, it was beset with killings and gang wars in the riverine belt. It was then that the state government felt that policing in Naugachhia was tough due to extremely difficult terrains.
 
 Later on, in the backdrop of several incidents of crime, it was made a police district in 1992 for better policing and a superintendent of police was posted there.
 
 As days passed, a momentum to upgrade it to a full-fledged revenue district gathered in view of the difficulties faced by the local residents vis-à-vis administrative governance in the backdrop of upgradation of several sub-divisions into a district.
 
 “We want that Naugachhia should be declared as the 39th district of the state as it fulfills all the criteria including population ratio and land area,” the RJD MP said on the sidelines of his march.
 
 Taking a dig at the district administration, Mandal alleged that senior officials seldom care to solve the problems of residents living in remote diara villages. “Naugachhia residents will get a fair dealing if it becomes a full-fledged district. Development of the region will also take place and people will not have to rush to Bhagalpur for getting their work done. We will continue our campaign in phase-wise manner,” added the MP.
 
 
