NAGPUR: The crime branch has so far arrested five persons, including an advocate, for their involvement in the international human trafficking racket where 11 persons have been named as accused so far. The racket, known as ‘kabootarbaazi’ in local parlance, is spread across at least two continents,   and Europe, and several states like Haryana, Punjab and Delhi, apart from Maharashtra.

 City police may now form a separate team to inquire into the case with international ramifications, and also involve multiple agencies, including immigration departments of several nations. Apart from private persons, the involvement of government and police officials too is not being ruled out at the initial stage. They may have helped the racketeers prepare fake documents and records to get passport and visas issued, and then cleared at immigration. Each illegal immigrant was charged approximately Rs25-30 lakh by the racketeers to send them abroad with the lure of better income and life, said a reliable source.
 
 A senior official, the case may even end up being probed by   (CBI), and also involve the   (IB), with whom the British High Commission’s Immigration Enforcement International (IEI) has already shared its findings.
 
 As reported by the TOI on Tuesday, the racket, exposed by IEI, who alerted city police crime branch, is supposed to have trafficked around 60 persons to UK between 2007 and 2015. It is learnt that the racketeers sent illegal immigrants to countries like Italy, German, Canada and others too. Sources said a woman advocate manages the show in Canada for the racketeers, and renders legal help in case there is any complexity at immigration.
 
 The persons arrested as yet have been identified as Balveer Singh Multani, Ajit Singh Multani, Rulda Singh Gujjar, Manjeet Ghotra and Shiv Kumar Rathod. The first four were arrested on Tuesday, and produced before the court, which remanded them to police custody till February 1. Rathod, who claims to be an advocate, was arrested late on Tuesday evening after the crime branch learnt about his role in helping the racketeers prepare fake documents. He would be presented before the court on Wednesday.
 
 Sources from North Nagpur claimed the racketeers had started the trafficking racket in the beginning of 2000. Initially, a Delhi-based agent helped them send victims to international destinations with fake visas and passport.
 
 It’s also learnt the racketeers would also send victims to Far East countries, like Malaysia, Bangkok, Singapore and such places, where travel expenses are relatively cheaper as a way of training them in international travel, and get practical experience in facing immigration staffers. Also, after an international trip, visas to other countries of America and Europe were easier to obtain.
 
 ACP (crime)   said the focus now is arresting the remaining accused, accumulating evidence against them in the form of fake documents and records create, and also conducting relevant searches.
 
 Sources from North Nagpur also indicated that several persons are now thinking of lodging police complaint against the accused for fraud, and defaulting on their loan repayments and interest. Unconfirmed sources said some of the accused have also been involved in lodging fake theft complaints of their trucks for compensation and such benefits.
 
 
