NEW DELHI: The government and political parties should keep out of the affairs of the judiciary, which is capable of sitting together and finding a solution to the current controversy enveloping the Supreme Court, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said. 

  
  , the PM responded to a question on whether the crisis in the judiciary was avoidable by saying he had faith in the judicial system to figure out a solution to its problems. 
 
 "I think I should stay away from this debate. The government must also stay away. Political parties must also keep out of it. Our country's judiciary has a very bright past, they are very capable people. They will sit together and find the solution to their problems," the PM said in his first reaction to the controversy. 
 
 In significant comments ahead of the budget, he strongly rejected the suggestion that elections, including the Lok Sabha polls due in 2019, were a reason for the government to turn to populism. He said his record as CM and PM reflected his views that the common man did not demand freebies and sops but rather expected honesty. "The common man expects to get what he deserves. He doesn't demand sops. It is our myth," he said.
 
 
 
 
 Ahead of his departure for the World Economic Forum in Davos, the PM said he would use the platform to leverage India's advantages, which have increased following a 42-rank jump in the ease of doing business rankings. "Its my job to go to the world and tell them how we are touching new heights of progress and I am going to take full advantage of this opportunity," he said.
 
 Modi said he would ensure the world got to see the true face of India and that the country had become a land of great opportunity. Asked how he rated his government's performance, the PM said this was for citizens to assess but if elections were a criteria, then the results were "better than distinction". He said the true picture would emerge through a comparison with 10 years of UPA which would reveal that doom and gloom had given way to optimism.
 
 “I am very satisfied that the pledge with which we set out, we are on the right track. We are progressing at the right pace and people have faith that we are striving hard to fulfil expectations and aspirations of the common man. And that is the biggest satisfaction,” he said.
 
 He countered the opposition claim that the economy had slowed and jobs were not being created, saying India was seen as one of the “fragile five” when he assumed office. He said India was now a shining star on the world stage and inflation, though currently 5%, had averaged 3% for most of his government’s tenure. He said the current account deficit was now down to 1-2% of GDP.
 
 
 
 
 Modi said that criticism over handling farm issues in the wake of the Gujarat election was justified and the government owed it to the agriculturists to take care of their needs. He said the government had pushed irrigation projects which connected reservoirs and dams to fields. He also said the government would pay attention to adding value to agri produce.
 
 The PM said India’s foreign policy was not Pakistan-centric though his focus remained on allying with all nations opposed to terrorism. He said he had repeatedly said the people of India and Pakistan should fight common woes like poverty. “As far as Pakistan is concerned, I have always said India and Pakistan have fought a lot. We should come together to fight poverty, disease. I directly tell the people of Pakistan that illiteracy and poverty are the enemies and if we fight together we will win,” he said.
 
 
 
 
