In a city that is known to be the birthplace of rock, Cleveland, that week, resonated of Indian classical music. Oh yes, we were as confused as you. Walking into the   auditorium, we spotted many musicians — upcoming and established —walking in their pristine white veshtis and kurtas, pattu saris and saw a whole bunch of aspiring musicians rehearsing right outside the competition rooms. The   Thygaraja Festival almost had a Margazhi-feel, what with concerts happening right from the morning, spread over two weeks, with rasikas queuing up to watch performances of their favourite Carnatic musicians from India. As a first, for me, it was a delight to watch all of this in a faraway land. 

 The recently-concluded festival rang in its 41st year. Over the years, the festival has seen iconic moments and showcased some brilliant musicians of today, like Ramakrishnan Murthy, Sandeep Narayan, and Kamalakiran Vinjamuri, to name a few. With several volunteers helping guests and participants, the entire festival was very welcoming. And  , co-founder and secretary of Aradhana Committee (which conducts this festival), was watching over all of this, being among the first to arrive at the venue every day. “It started in 1978, in the basement of a local church,” he begins, piquing our curiosity. “The beauty is that the festival grew bigger with each passing year. But I should be honest... there was never a grand vision. There was no five-year or 10-year plan. We took it one year at a time. The first year, we didn’t have any money to get Indian artistes to perform here. So, we got local artistes for a kutcheri and had an audience of 70 people. The following year, we began conducting in Cleveland State University auditorium and got TR Subramaniam (TRS) from India for a performance. We didn’t have the budget to get accompanying artistes. But luckily, Kalyani Varadarajan got a ticket for a discounted price and we had Ramnad Raghavan, too, who accompanied TRS for the concert here. From one to two kutcheries, it became 20 kutcheries on our 20th anniversary. Today, we have more than 100 concerts with 150 artistes travelling from India. It has been an organic growth,” says Sundaram.
 
 And of course, one of their motive is to encourage youngsters of   to stay in touch with their roots. “Through our Sustaining Sampradaya programme, we get them trained in music, conduct dance workshops and so on. This also encourages them to participate in the numerous competitions that we conduct during the festival. This is also being done to give the youngsters a sense of identity, appreciate their roots, their heritage and culture. We want to have good classical music in America, just like what we define as authentic and pristine (back in India). We want to represent and emulate that kind of music here,” he explains.
 And the participation of youngsters has only been overwhelming. In fact, at times when there is so much distraction for children today, Sundaram says that Indian kids in the US are extremely thrilled to participate in such competitions. “There has always been a tremendous response. This year, we had almost 1,000 kids (only music) participating. All of them have taken to music seriously and they are doing exceedingly well. The climate is good for   to flourish,” he says, adding, “However, I always tell them that success is not guaranteed. Though 2,000 people (both music and dance) participate every year, we can’t expect all of them to take up music or dance professionally in the future. Few years down the lane, if we can produce at least 10-12 committed musicians, I’d say that we have won.”
 
 The core strength, Sundaram says, are their volunteers. “One of the core strengths for us to be able to continue conducting this festival every year is the passion of the core volunteers. They have their own jobs, but they drop everything for a few days to be part of this.” Some of their core volunteers/organisers include Radhika Balasubramaniam, Gopi Sundaram, Shankar Sundaram and Karthik Venkataraman. Radhika and Gopi look into the competitions and workshops. Gopi says, “The music competition we conduct is the biggest in the US. We try to do something different every year, and this time, we tried to challenge the kids more. We came up with different categories, made it more difficult and brought up the standard of music in the US. And this has always succeeded because when we challenge the kids, they always respond. The goal is to be as inclusive as possible and take all entries. We start with the basic like geetham, varnams and kritis. Then, we have advanced categories like alapana, neraval, swaram, ragam tanam pallavi. We have two categories at the highest level — concert competition and advanced pallavi. Those are a solid test to a musician, with judges asking them questions. And for both these competitions, if you win the first prize, you get to have your own concert the following year at the fest. We also try to arrange concerts in Chennai. Sabhas in Chennai, too, ask us to give names of promising musicians. There is definitely a solid crop of talents who are on par with the musicians in India.” 
 
 Radhika, who handles the dance competitions, adds, “The music competition here has become a big boost, and some of the participants have gone on to become performing musicians. Some even go to India to make a career, but we weren’t seeing that in dance. Almost everyone here will be taught Bharatanatyam, but the standard is not exactly high. To raise the standard, we came up with competitions that are tough, hoping they get better and become as good as the dancers in India. We started dance competitions only 11 years ago. Initially, we got students to send their audition tapes and got them for the competition. But later, we realised that everyone should get an opportunity. We have even had kids from Muscat, Australia, and even from India who have participated in the competition. The response has been very good, with some of them even moving to India. But I must add that it is not common, as many people are scared to choose dance as their one profession, going by the challenges dancers face in terms of getting opportunities.”
 
 Rupa Manikandan, a homemaker from Minneapolis had travelled all the way to make her son participate in the competitions. “The competitions give ample opportunity for my son to better himself as we get to see many students from different schools of music. We also got to see many artistes from India perform here, which is a great learning experience for music students,” she says. Sumamala D’s son, too, has come from Columbus to be a part of the festival and competition. “We get to see different baanis of singing by other students. In fact, for the first two years, we simply came here to watch the programmes. It was only after that we enrolled my son in the competition. While I am not sure how far he will take it up seriously, I can assure that music will be a ‘serious hobby’ for my child.”
 
 Talk about challenges, Sundaram says, “Resources, in terms of people (volunteers), and financial hurdles are the main ones. Art is the last thing that people want to support. And that’s always an issue. For instance, people will support if it for a religious reason or a health camp. But with art, it is difficult for them to comprehend. It is treated like a consumable. They need it when they want it. If it’s not there, they can live without it. But we are blessed with people who are always willing to support us.” 
 
