BHUBANESWAR: Blowing the lid off the controversy whether or not the Kunduli   had left behind any suicide note, police on Tuesday confirmed that they had found such a note, purportedly written by the girl. The note was sent to state handwriting bureau for verification only last week. Police have also decided to send the note to a Central laboratory for test.

 The girl’s family,   and civil society organisations have been alleging that the police suppressed her suicide note. Police claimed they got the purported suicide note from her family three days after her death. In the purported letter, the girl alleged that she was forced to end her life after being denied justice. On October 10, she accused four security personnel of raping her. On January 22, her family alleged she committed suicide, a month after medical reports ruled out rape. “We had not found any suicide note in her house on January 22. When we reached her house, the family members had also taken her body to hospital. The family told us that she hanged herself to death,” a senior police officer told TOI.
 
 Asked about the delay in sending the suicide note to handwriting bureau, police said the family members were reluctant to give them her handwritten notebooks or any other documents having her signature to match it with the suicide note. “We had to approach her school and collected her handwritten exam paper. We got it only a few days ago and immediately sent for match. We are waiting for the result,” a senior police officer told TOI.
 
 “We are still at a loss as to why her family members gave us her purported suicide note three days after her death. Once the report of the handwriting bureau comes in, we will send the same note and her answer sheet to a Central laboratory for test. This will ensure transparency in the probe,” the officer said.
 
 The police said they are yet to find the dupatta, using which she allegedly hanged herself to death. “We checked the post mortem report in which the concerned doctor mentioned that it appeared to be a case of suicidal hanging. But the post-mortem was made in a hurried manner at her village crematorium as locals and her family were aggrieved and were not allowing the police to conduct the customary practice,” the officer said.
 
 Her family members claimed the police are still trying to hush up the case. “I had seen that two cops picked up a piece of paper from our room on the day she committed suicide. I am sure that was her suicide note. My sister died because she did not get justice,” said her brother.
 
