NAGPUR: There is more to the list of businessmen in the city who may have burned their fingers dealing with Mehul Choksi’s Gitanjali Group. After Deven Kothari, a local jeweller who openly alleged that he was duped by Choksi, TOI has tracked three more individuals who have lost their money to Gitanjali Group.

 The company had four showrooms in the city run by local businessmen on franchisee basis. Opened in around 2011, the outlets were located at Laxmi Nagar, Central Avenue (Gandhibagh), Panchsheel Square and Dhantoli. Three shut down by 2014-15, the store at   was last to wind up in 2017.
 
 Promoters of the stores at Laxmi Nagar and Gandhibagh told TOI that they had suffered losses as their dues could not be recovered entirely. A source close to the promoters of the Dhantoli store too admitted of a similar issue there. The person who ran the outlet at Panchsheel Square, however, said he preferred to wind up early because there was no demand for Gitanjali’s products. There was no dues to be recovered from the company, he said. 
 
 “I was the last one to shut down the store in 2017, after filing a police complaint against Gitanjali Group at Andheri suburb in Mumbai as the dealings had taken place there, The police registered a first information report (FIR) three months later in April. The company has moved the court to get the FIR quashed,” said Shirish Jaiswal, who ran the Gitanjali store on Central Avenue.
 
 Jaiswal said a payment of Rs3.5 crore was due from Gitanjali Group. The problems began after 2014, when the company’s shares touched a low. Apart from it, huge funds were locked up with the company. Against it the ornaments dispatched for the showroom were highly overvalued. “The same product could be easily available at much less price in the open market. This means the actual value of diamonds supplied by Gitanjali was much less as compared to the rates it quoted,” he said. 
 
 “It was not easy to get the money back and finally a police complaint had to be filed. I am now left with a bank loan of Rs2.7 crore,” he said.
 
 Saurabh Gupta, who ran the Laxmi Nagar outlet, said the firm preferred to settle for a lesser amount finally. “By 2014, there was a change in the management. The manner in which operations were run did not suit us,” he said.
 
 Gupta too said the stock supplied by Gitanjali Group was highly overpriced as compared to the same items available elsewhere in the market.
 
 The outlet at Dhantoli was located on the premises of  , a   MLC from Chimur in Chandrapur district.   said he had only rented the premises and had no other involvement in running the outlet.
 
 All those who ran the outlets were first-timers in jewellery business. Sources in the trade said, “Gitanjali Group typically targeted businessmen who had no experience in the jewellery business. It was because majority of the traditional jewellers preferred to stay away from the company. The reason was that Gitanjali’s diamonds were highly overpriced as compared to the intrinsic value.”
 
 
