GURUGRAM:   residents are miffed with the maintenance firm in charge of roads and parks in the society for neglecting its work. Residents told TOI that they wanted MCG to take over the society from the developer as quickly as possible because the current maintenance agency had been “insensitive” to their needs.

 
 Over 250 families staying in block C2 has accused the agency of negligence and alleged that the RWA was opaque about the maintenance fees paid to the agency. 
 
 Palam Vihar Resident Association, however, claimed that residents themselves were not paying the fees. “Only 30-40% of residents paid the maintenance fees and an amount of over Rs 13 crore is outstanding,” an RWA member told TOI.
 
 Ravi Wahi, a resident, said, “Roads have not been repaired for nearly 7-8 years. Only shoddy patches are put in place and they come off within a few days. The residents are being billed by the maintenance agency,   and Palam Vihar Residents Association ( PVRA), specifically for repair of these roads. But roads are supposed to be maintained by the developer, Ansals, at their own cost till the colony is handed over to MCG.” Residents also complained about the lack of security personnel in the area. According to them, the parks in the area are frequented by criminals and alcoholics, leading to an unsafe environment. They said the number of security personnel was recently scaled down. Most of the residents living in the society are aged or retired from government and corporate jobs and need security guards to keep off burglars. Wahi said, “We need over a dozen security personnel here but over the past few days, we have been seeing only two of them. I did not even see one in the past two days. We are feeling quite unsafe.” Residents also claimed that the sector roads were wearing out. “It is very uncomfortable to travel on these roads. People with spine injuries can no longer take these roads,” said Satish Kumar, another resident.
 
 “We pay nearly Rs 7,600 per flat as maintenance fees, excluding security fees. But there is no maintenance work or security in this society,” said Sumit, another resident. “Already, some of the residents have stopped paying maintenance fees because of shoddy services.”
 
 An official with the maintnance agency said, “Of all the RWAs that come under our jurisdiction, we have taken up the most responsibilities in Palam Vihar. We barely get complaints from there. It has the richest RWA in the entire NCR. However, if a certain part of Palam Vihar is facing problems, we will look into the matter and get it redressed as soon as possible.”
 
 
