Nagpur: In a major development for city’s environment, financial, and waste-to-wealth initiatives, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has contracted to supply another 150 million litres per day (MLD) treated sewage for power generation, saving Rs960 crore that it was supposed to pay the new sewage treatment plant operator. A tripartite agreement was executed between Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), Maharashtra State Power Generation Company Limited (Mahagenco), and the private operator who constructed a new sewage treatment plant (STP), for supply of 150 million litres per day (MLD) treated sewage for power generation. With the latest development, chances of water scarcity in city, and also for Mahagenco’s two thermal power stations at Koradi and Khaparkheda, will reduce, especially during the summer months. Municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal told TOI 100 MLD will be supplied to Mahagenco’s Koradi plant and 50 MLD to Khaparkheda plant. “The private operator, that is consortium of three private companies, including city-based Vishvaraj Infrastructure Limited (VIL), has completed construction of new STP with capacity of 200 MLD. The plant is likely to commence treatment of sewage in next 15 to 30 days. Talks are underway with National Thermal Power Station (NTPC) for supply of remaining 50 MLD. NMC is already supplying 130 MLD treated sewage to Koradi plant since last two years,” he said. Mudgal added NMC will get revenue of Rs33 crore per annum from Mahagenco for supply of the 150 MLD treated sewage. “NMC is getting around Rs15 crore per annum from Mahagenco for supply of 130 MLD treated sewage currently. If similar agreement with NTPC materializes, NMC expects to get Rs60 crore per annum,” he said. Mudgal also said one of the biggest advantage will be treatment, scientific disposal, and reuse of 330 MLD sewage water generated from the city. “We are also planning to augment the new 200 MLD STP by 100 or 150 MLD. Sewage water pollution issue will come down to a great extent in coming days,” he said. Cash strapped NMC has got a big relief from the tripartite agreement. NMC was supposed to pay Rs960 crore to the private operator over 30 years for the new 200 MLD STP. Now, NMC will not pay a single penny. Instead, NMC is hoping to get some revenue if the agreement with NTPC materializes. As per the tripartite agreement, Mahagenco will lay pipeline from STP constructed at Bhandewadi to Koradi and Khaparkheda plants, at an estimated cost of Rs150 crore. Pipeline is already in place from Bhandewadi to Koradi plant for supply of 130 MLD treated sewage. New pipeline is required as existing one cannot take the load of more treated sewage. If the work on the pipeline ends before summer, NMC and Mahagenco will benefit to a great extent. Following low water storage in Totladoh (Pench) reservoir, NMC and Mahagenco are in a fix over water supply during upcoming summer. Union minister Nitin Gadkari in a meeting held at NMC on Sunday assured to take up NTPC agreement issue with union minister of state (independent charge) RK Singh. Gadkari had planned the entire NMC initiatives to supply treated sewage for power generation, and the agreements with Mahagenco. NMC’s initiative is the first of it kind in the entire nation. The central government had come up with a new policymaking it mandatory for supply of treated sewage to power plants located within a radius of 50km from urban areas after NMC’s successful initiative. MONEY FROM SEWAGE High Pollution: City’s drinking water supply is 680 MLD. 70-80% of total water supply is converted into sewage. Thus, around 476-545 MLD sewage is generated from the city. NMC faced strictures from all corners for untreated sewage polluting Nag, Kanhan and Wainganga rivers, followed by Gosikhurd dam, over last many years Sewage Treatment: NMC is operating and maintaining 80 MLD plant since over a decade. Sewage treated from this plant is released again into Nag river without any reuse. NMC, in association with Mahagenco, developed STP of 130 MLD two years ago. Treated sewage from this project is supplied to Mahagenco’s Koradi expansion thermal power project. Thus, pollution in rivers and dam reduced by 210 MLD. With commissioning of 200 MLD project, which includes existing old plant of 80 MLD, treatment capacity will increase to 330 MLD. Plan is to augment new plant by 100-150 MLD in future New STP’s Financial Model: It is a PPP model project on annuity repayment basis. VIL and its two partners will invest Rs236 crore in construction of project. Then, private companies will operate and maintain project for 30 years. NMC is supposed to pay Rs32 crore per annum to the private companies as repayment of capital expenditure and also operation and maintenance cost. Total repayment was whopping Rs960 crore Mahagenco and NTPC are saviours: NMC is facing severe financial crisis so it cannot afford to pay Rs32 crore per annum to private operator. Now, Mahagenco will pay Rs33 crore per annum for supply of 150 MLD treated sewage. Thus, issue of payment to private operator will come to an end. NMC is expected to earn profit in case of agreement with NTPC for remaining 50 MLD materializes