NAGPUR: After keeping it in cold storage for several years, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ) has resumed the process to construct a barrage on Kanhan river. The project aims to increase water supply from   water treatment plant, which would benefit East, North and a few parts of South Nagpur.

 “The water resources department ( ) has conducted a preliminary survey of the new barrage near Kanhan water treatment plant,” said a senior official of water works department.
 
 The official said that the civic body had paid Rs24.77 lakh to WRD to conduct study of the site. Subsequently, WRD has also issued water availability certificate to the civic body and also suggested a site for the barrage near the pumping station.
 
 Now, the NMC has approached   (CDO) in Nashik to prepare a drawing design for the barrage by paying Rs1.82 crore, the officer said, adding that chief minister   has assured that the expenditure of the dam will be borne by Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation.
 
 Besides, the NMC is also planning to construct a jackwell in Kanhan river where the NMC’s pumping station is situated to improve water supply to East and North Nagpur.
 
 However, the river has the capacity to supply 240 MLD to the plant only during the rainy season. In summer, the plant would pump only 160 MLD water.
 
 Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal said there is no fear of water crisis in the city this summer.
 
 He said the city has a reservation of 190 cubic mm water from Navegaon Khairi from November 1, 2017, to October 31, 2018. “Till date, the NMC has withdrawn around 60 mm cube water and till June 30, the NMC can use 80-90 cubic mm from its reservation,” he said.
 
 Currently, the NMC is lifting 625 MLD water per day from Khairi dam, Mudgal said, adding that the NMC may increase the quantity to 725 MLD per day during peak summer. “Last year, the NMC had withdrawn 710 MLD water per day during summer season, he said, adding “We have kept 15 MLD in buffer this year.”
 
 Orange City Water (OCW) pumps 630-640 MLD water from both Kanhan river and   reservoir (215-220 MLD from Kanhan and rest from Pench). As water level in Kanhan river dried up, the irrigation department recently released five cusecs of water from Navegaon Khairi and the same amount is being pumped in from Kanhan, said an OCW spokesperson.
 
 
