CHANDIGARH: The number of total   cases filed in the consumer forums across Chandigarh have dropped in comparison to that of last year, show the figures available on the forums’ website. It had been rising since 2014. The drop is across all the sectors and in all the three forums-   (SC), District Forum-I (DF-I) and District   II (DF- II). According to the consumer rights advocates, the drop in the number is a good sign as it indicates fear of law among the sellers as more consumers have become aware of their rights.

 In 2016, a total 3661 cases were filed in Chandigarh consumer forum from January 1 till December 31 whereas, this year, only 3148 cases were filed. In 2014 there were 2223 total cases were filed while in 2015 a total of 2369 cases were filed.
 
  
  
 
 The top sectors with maximum cases continued to be real estate,   and banking. In the state commission, the maximum cases filed were of real estate sector, like last year. In 2017, a total 851 real estate cases were filed, while in 2016, the number was 977. A total of 88 insurance sector cases and 22 banking sector cases were filed in 2017.
 
 In DF-I, maximum cases are that of insurance (66), followed by banking (25) and then, housing with 3 cases. In DF-II, insurance cases tops the chart with 109 cases. Housing sector with 84 cases is at the second place and the third place is occupied by the banking sector with 34 cases. Railway, postal, health and immigration cases, too, witnessed rise as they have made it to the list of top sectors mentioned on the website.
 
 The consumer right promoters feel that the number of cases in housing sector will further drop while the education sector is expected to see more cases in coming days. TOI, in November, had reported, that this year education has emerged as a separate sector for the first time with six cases filed in DF-II.
 
 The forums are performing very well and doing justice, say advocates. “The consumer disputes are reducing, because of many reasons. For example, legal framework of the government is framing consumer friendly policies and providing grievance redressal forums within the commercial organisations. Further, the dubious new projects of real estate sector are not coming now, due to strict policies and hard judgements. Consumer movement has gained momentum in India, due to which the sellers of goods and services ensure that there should be no deficiency. Technology has helped a lot as consumers and sellers are more aware. So, when one order comes, it spreads following which sellers become cautious and do not repeat those faults,” said advocate Ajay  .
 
 Helplines too are helping, said experts. “The forums like consumer helpline and certain websites are doing nice jobs by solving people’s problems through online messages only. Overall, when in any country the implementation of law goes stronger, defaults start reducing. Timely justice is proving deterrent and shooting the unfair trade practices,” Jagga added.
 
 Advocates also feel that more consumers now-a-days prefer buying online, which too has reduced consumer grievances as they offer refund. “The number of cases is dropping as purchasing online assures the consumer full refund and replacement of goods, even if the consumer doesn’t like the colour or the material. They feel their rights are protected,” said  , organising secretary of consumer association, Chandigarh. 
 
 However, Some also feel that it is the increasing technicalities that has brought the number down.
 
 “The cases being filed in consumer courts are going down because of the increasing technicalities being applied by the forums, which are creating disillusion among the common man. For all such disputes, people have started preferring to approach the permanent lok adalat for public utility services, as it is non-technical and no court-fee has to be paid. Moreover, the majority of the cases being filed in   were against the builders, which can entertain complaints upto Rs 1 crore. Earlier, the interest claimed was not added to calculate the amount, but since July, 2017, interest claimed (which is usually 18%-24%) is also being added to calculate pecuniary jurisdiction. This takes the total amount beyond Rs 1 crore, for which now, one has to go to national commission in New Delhi. Specialised laws like RERA Act have also taken the steam out of Consumer Protection Act,” said advocate  .
 
 
 
 
