JAIPUR: A day after a 36-year old   in a   in Mansarovar area,   camera revealed that it was an SUV that had hit him. On Monday morning, police found the vehicle parked in a  . Now, police are trying to contact the   and driver who was involved in the accident. The footage showed that the driver of the speeding SUV lost control after applying sudden hand brake.

 The SUV came sliding and hit the bike coming from the opposite direction. Two others were injured in the incident, out of them one is critical. Thirty-six-year-old Surendra Vaishnav died in the accident.
 
 The police said that Vaishnav was a resident of Ajmer and was staying in Muhana area of Jaipur district. He was working as a lecturer in a private college in Chaksu. His friend Laxman Chaudhary also suffered severe injuries and is battling for life in ICU. Since the uncontrolled SUV rammed into a foot cart while hitting the motorbike, the owner of the cart has also suffered injuries. The driver of the SUV, who is yet to be identified, sped away immediately.
 
 “We received information from a resident of Muhana area in the morning that a damaged SUV is parked in Muhana. We immediately went there,” said Deshraj Singh Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Mansarovar).
 
 The police said that they have sent the numbers to control room for taking out the details of owners of the vehicle. “They parked the SUV at a house in Muhana. An elderly woman told us that a person parked the car outside her home but she does not know the person,” said Yadav. The police are confident that they will nab the accused soon.
 
 The incident had happened on New Sanganer Road on Sunday afternoon. The video shows that it was a luxury car, over which its driver lost control and when he applied hand brakes it caused the moving car to turn 180 degrees. During the course of time two persons riding on the bike from the other side were hit by the back of the car throwing them onto a road side stall of eateries. The accident was fierce as the speed of the vehicle was over 100km per hour.
 
 Within a few seconds after the accident, the vehicle left New Sanganer Road and took a turn towards Patrakar Colony. The turn towards Patrakar Colony was just a few meters away from the spot of the accident.
 
 
