TRICHY: A   built by   wholesale   traders’ association was inaugurated here over the Trichy-Chennai bypass road on Sunday. 

 The decision to build a   market was said to have come after existing space for wholesale traders in Gandhi market was witnessing frequent traffic snarls and also with district administration keen on shifting all the wholesale traders from Gandhi market to government-integrated vegetable market at Kallikudi, on the outskirts of the city.
 
 Built at an estimated cost of Rs 15 crore, including loans taken from banks, Trichy wholesale onion traders’ association set up the private market in about 4 acres of land located on the service road of Chennai-Trichy national highway. 
 
 “Since we felt that the facilities available at Kallikudi integrated vegetable market were insufficient for our operations, we decided to build a market for us on our own. The construction work was taken up in 2015 and was completed a few months ago,” S Vellayappan, president, Trichy Wholesale Onion Traders’ Association, said. 
 
 The land was said to be bought by the association in the 1990s. While only 78 wholesale onion traders are functioning in the corporation-run shops on the Sub Jail Road in Gandhi Market, the private market has 101 shops with facilities to stock large and small onions. Though the market is spacious and furnished with basic amenities, the approach road merging with Chennai-Trichy bypass apparently has a narrow entry which could cause a bottleneck on the stretch. Close to 145 heavy vehicles, including from Maharashtra, Perambalur, Namakkal, and Thuraiyur, will come to the facility to trade large and small onions. The market will supply onions to as many as 10 central districts here.
 
 After state ministers Vellamandi N Natarajan and S Valarmathi opened the facility in the presence of traders’ representatives on Sunday, wholesale onion traders said that around 78 wholesale onion traders operating from Gandhi market for now will be relocated to the private market in a month’s time. With the market being opened, the public has sought the traffic police department to ensure that heavy vehicles are not parked over the Chennai-Trichy NH service road causing bottleneck at the Palpannai junction where two national highways merge.
 
 
