For the first time, the usually unflappable Mahendra Singh Dhoni lost his cool after the   beat his team with a delivery left in the game as he gathered the ball from the deep after Buttler had completed the two runs that gave the Royals a truly extraordinary win. That ball had gone to the deep after an unnecessary throw from   when there was no chance of a run-out and the resultant overthrow meant a loss to the  . 

 
 
 
 
 If Watson hadn't thrown the ball it would have meant the scores were tied with one ball left and with a new batsman at the crease who hadn't as yet faced a single delivery and who in fact had been dismissed the first ball he faced in his previous two games and if that had happened again then the match could have gone to the super over and who knows what would have happened then.
 
 
 
 
 It wasn't the first time that an unnecessary throw from Watson had caused his team grief for he had done something similar in 2014 when playing then for the Rajasthan team against the Mumbai Indians he had thrown the ball and missed again. 
 
  
  
 
 The final delivery of that match a second low leg-side full toss in the over from Faulkner was smashed for a six by Aditya Tare to give Mumbai not just a win but increased their net run-rate by that millimeter that got them into the playoffs at the expense of Rajasthan Royals. That time another cool customer Rahul Dravid, coach of Rajasthan, lost it too and flung his cap away in disgust in the dugout.
 
 Cricket is all about learning from previous experiences and trying not to repeat the same mistake. Not that Watson's throw was the only reason the Chennai team lost. There was  's superb batting that kept Rajasthan in the hunt and has given their campaign a boost as they take on Mumbai Indians. It's once again a must-win game for both the teams as they are level on points and with the same number of games left to play.
 
 Both teams will be high on confidence after their previous games, a massive win for Mumbai against the Kolkatta Knight Riders and the excellent run chase by the Rajasthan team against Chennai.
 
 The other game will test Chennai Super King's ability to bounce back after a heartbreaking loss as they take on table topper and the first team to qualify, the Sunrisers Hyderabad. The Hyderabad boys chased down a daunting target with ease and with Dhawan back in form and Williamson batting superbly, Dhoni's bowlers will have to lift themselves up considerably to avoid being criticised by Captain Cool again. 
 
