Nagpur: CCTVs installed in city under Rs 520 crore Smart City Solutions project are gradually being brought into use. Of the total 3,904, in all 3,506 CCTVs have been installed across the city. Of these 123 have been brought into operation. Sources in Smart City special purpose vehicle Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Ltd (NSSCDCL) told TOI these 123 CCTVs are operating at 21 junctions. “Construction of command and control centre in the premises of commissioner of police (CP) office has just started. City operation centre at Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) head office is completed. The police team are using CCTV feed at city operation centre. Winter session of state legislature is on. The feed is being utilized for security purposes. Later, it would be used for maintaining law and order across the city,” sources said. Sources added live feed of 1,500 CCTVs has to reach the city operation centre. “Optical fibre cable of 607km length out of total 671kms has been laid across the city. All Smart City Solutions including CCTVs are linked with this optical fibre cable. Technical verification of cable is pending. Project will be completed immediately after the process,” the sources said. Another Smart Solution, WiFi has been made available at 68 points across the city. Target is to facilitate 789 WiFi access points of which work at 743 points has been completed. Technical verification of 675 access points is awaited. All 743 access points will be brought into use after that,” sources said. Though delayed to a great extent, police department has received one mobile surveillance vehicle (MSV) and a drone. L&T, which is carrying out the work, is to supply 10 MSVs and 10 drones. NSSCDCL official said police department used MSV and drone during the morcha organized by Congress and NCP jointly last Tuesday. “MSV was used at Morris College T-point and drone at Kasturchand Park. MSV is equipped with CCTVs including PTZ camera. A wireless CCTV is another feature of MSV that can be used as mini operation centre. Feed from cameras attached with MSV will come to city operation centre and command and control centre too,” he said. The state’s directorate of information technology (DIT) had issued work order to L&T in October 2016. Deadline to complete the entire project was October 2017. Due to various reasons, L&T could not complete the project in prescribed time period. Smart Strip, a 5km stretch of West High Court road from Japanese Garden square to Khamla square, was supposed to be completem within six months of work order. That too has remained incomplete.