CHENNAI: Almost four years after the current members of the   were elected, statistics show that MPs from Tamil Nadu have been the third most active in the House in terms of questions asked, private member bills raised and debates initiated, behind only their counterparts in Maharashtra and Kerala.

 The data is available till the end of the 13
  session of the current Lok Sabha, which ended on January 5.
 
 Shiv Sena’s MPs were the most active, followed by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), CPM and AIADMK. The national average of questions asked, private members’ bills raised and debates initiated was 245. Maharashtra, Kerala, TN, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Haryana and Telangana performed better than average.
 
 The   had an average around half that of the Shiv Sena and NCP, but that is because close to 40 of its MPs were appointed as ministers were not allowed to participate in debates and raise questions as they would have on the treasury benches, said K Srinivasan, head of Prime Point Foundation, Chennai, a not-for-profit organisation, which compiled the statistics. The foundation established the annual Sansad Ratna Award for the best parliamentarian based on the statistics it compiles from PRS India-obtained data.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Supriya Sule, the NCP MP from Baramati, was the most active MP based on the ‘Sansad Ratna’ metric; Shiv Sena’s Maval MP   was second.
 
 Among Tamil Nadu’s MPs, SR Vijayakumar, the AIADMK MP from Chennai Central, was the most active and earned an overall rank of 20th; T Radhakrishnan from Virudhunagar came in second and T G Venkatesh Babu (Chennai North) third.
 
 According to the statistics, the average metrics of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which ended at the bottom, and All India   (AITMC) were only 76 and 74 respectively. AAP has just four MPs but AITMC (33 MPs) is the fourth-biggest party in the Lok Sabha.
 
 It is the job of MPs to ask questions and initiate debates on the policies of the government, said Sudarshan Padmanabhan, a professor at IIT-Madras and member of the   (ADR).
 
 “Tamil Nadu MPs in the past have not really done well as far as asking quesions is concerned; but they only improved in the past three to four years,” he said. “In comparison, MPs from Kerala and Maharashtra appear trained to ask questions and start debates, which reflects in their performance.”
 
 
