NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind   on Wednesday said his government would clear Delhi Metro’s long-pending   in parts. The government had found some of the proposed corridors “financially unviable”, the CM said, while inaugurating the first stretch of  , in the presence of Union minister for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri. 

 Kejriwal said his government was committed to the expansion of metro and would shortly give its nod to the corridors it found  . Phase-IV has a total length of 104km and will cost Rs 55,208 crore. It was approved, in principle, by Delhi government in January 2017, but a final approval and financial commitment are awaited. Delhi government and the Centre have an equal stake in DMRC. 
 
  
 Looking at Puri’s direction during the inauguration of Pink Line, Kejriwal said: “I know what Puriji will ask and I’ll give the answers. Phase-IV is pending with Delhi government, but we are committed to expanding metro and there should not be the slightest doubt about that.” 
 
 He said Phase-IV had six routes and some of these were not financially viable. “In public transport, financial viability is not the only criterion, but if it doesn’t get traffic, it puts a question mark on the viability.” Kejriwal said Delhi government officials had studied the routes and found shortcomings. Puri, however, said officials of the housing and urban affairs ministry had not found any of the corridors unviable. “We wouldn’t have recommended the corridors if we had found them unviable,” he said.
 
 Kejriwal also raised the issue of fare hike, which had come into effect in two parts last year. He said Centre and Delhi government should together come up with a solution to keep them down. Puri said the Centre wanted a world-class metro system and that was why fare revisions were not left to either the Centre or the state government. He said in a democracy, governments were vulnerable to pressure to keep fares down, which might affect the efficacy of the system. “In an ideal situation, we would like to provide world-class facilities but keep the charges affordable. There has been no hike in metro fares for nine years,” he said.
 
 Puri said he had asked DMRC managing director Mangu Singh to come up with a technological solution so that students and senior citizens could be provided concessions. “If the fare-fixation committee takes my recommendation, I would say there should definitely be no hike next year,” he said. 
 
 
