Scattered porcelain pieces from a ship, broken pottery pipes and ruins of the basement of an ancient Buddha vihara in Nagapattinam. If you join these materials, you get a picture of the ancient maritime trade that existed between the   and   and China. Although some scholars have submitted papers on Tamil’s maritime trade, an exclusive work explaining various angles of it is yet to appear.

 Many ports on the Coromandel coast had established maritime trade with Southeast Asia and China (not directly) even from 300 BC, according to P Jayakumar, who heads the department of epigraphy and archaeology, Tamil University, Thanjavur. "The potsherd with Brahmi script found in Thailand’s Phu Khao Thong is the earliest Tamil inscription from Southeast Asian countries pointing to a maritime trade that flourished between the ports on the Coromandel coast and those countries. There are only three letters. They resemble the Pugalur cave inscriptions," said Jayakumar, quoting senior epigraphist Iravatham Mahadevan.
 
 Interestingly, these ports on the Coromandel coast never had any direct trade with China, says Jayakumar. Why? "We couldn’t find any administrative record either in the form of inscriptions or plates that could prove that there was direct trade between the   and the Chinese. However, discovery of   (Chinese gold coins) in the Shailendra kingdoms of Srivijaya and Kadaram (Kedah) show that Cholas had great maritime trade with Southeast Asian countries."
 
 The Shailendra dynasty ruled the Srivijaya kingdom which comprised Sumatra, Java and the Malaysian peninsula. Kadaram (Kedah) was a small state of Malaysia. "Rajaraja Chola and Rajendra Chola established external maritime policies with the Shailendra kings. But we don’t have any evidence to show that Cholas had direct maritime trade with China," he said, adding that "the Chinese gold coin records belonged to the Kadaram ruler." To establish his point, Jayakumar said no Chinese text records cite such a direct maritime trade between the Tamils and Chinese until the medieval period.
 
 The traders who came from the Southeast Asian countries were mostly Buddhists. Jayakumar said when Tamil University conducted an excavation in Nagapattinam, the team even excavated a ruined basement of a Buddist vihara. "The brick structure, basement of Buddhist vihara and potsherds we found in Nagapattinam show that the traders who came from the Southeast Asian countries were mostly Buddhists," he said.
 
 Jayakumar, however, asked the researchers and students to take the challenge and fill the gap in the studies on Tamil’s maritime trade, which once flourished through many western countries and Southeast Asian countries.
 
 
