Nagpur: The Nagpur University (NU) on Tuesday decided to revive its anti-sexual harassment cell that has been lying defunct on the Amravati Road campus and start an additional one at its main building at Rabindranath Tagore Marg following demands from women’s rights activists. The activists suggested a three-day camp to make students, woman teachers and officials to come forward with complaints regarding sexual harassment. They also demanded action against dean of interdisciplinary studies Rajashri Vaishnav, who along with former Pro-VC Gaurishanker Parasher, has been accused of sexual harassment by her student. An FIR has been lodged against Parasher and Vaishnav by the student at Ambazari police station. Vice chancellor SP Kane told TOI that a notification in this regard will be issued soon. “I have decided to not just revive the existing sexual harassment cell on the campus but also start another one at the main building. Those who want can lodge their complaints at main building. The campus cell would be moved at the finance section building,” Kane said. A delegation of social workers under the Sayutka Mahila Samiti met Kane on Tuesday and placed several demands related to women’s security in the NU. Ashu Saxena, a Samiti officer bearer, said they were happy with Kane’s decision. “We had suggested the VC to run a three-day camp to encourage students, women teachers, and women officials to come up with their complaints. The campus cell is never open and several girl students have told us that they have no forum to complaint,” she said. Saxena added that the VC assured them to revive the original cell and start one more at main building instead of the camp. Besides Saxena, Aruna Sabane, Vandana Bankar, Sandhya Rajurkar and others were present in the meeting with the VC. In a representation, the Samiti also demanded suspension of Vaishnav, who is head of the NU Post Graduate Department of Education at Law College Square. The activists said the NU must initiate a probe against Vaishnav and restrict entry of Parasher on NU premises and departments. Saxena said the MEd student allegedly harassed by Vaishnav had been trying to lodge a complaint with the cell. “But, most of the time it was closed. There was no contact number of concerned officer or committee member. There are several other students who too want to come forward but the cell was lying defunct. Thus, such complaints were going unreported,” she claimed. NU officials said Vaishnav is yet to respond to two notices served to her following the police complaint by MEd student last month.