Bengaluru: The resentment against the Siddaramaiah government among the rank and file of Karnataka police too could have contributed to the loss of the Congress in the assembly elections, if aggressive campaigning among the personnel and their family members was any indication.

 “We’ve been ill-treated and looked down upon like we’re their office boys… promises made on incentives, hikes, leaves and infrastructure like houses were not met with. Many politicians misused their office and transferred honest police officers. Let’s not vote for the Congress,” read one such message that was circulated among cops and their family members ahead of the May 12 polls.
 
 The government’s failure to address issues pertaining to the department and more importantly, the alleged arrogance many ministers, including outgoing chief minister Siddaramaiah, showed towards the personnel were topics of discussion. Things came to a head with incidents like resignation of Anupama Shenoy after a minister allegedly humiliated her and the suicide of M K Ganapathi who had accused former home minister K J George of being vindictive.
 
  “The cases of Ganapathi and Anupama reflected the government’s attitude towards the department. There were a series of incidents showing politicians’ high-handedness. An inspector, who acted against errant youths, was transferred from Bengaluru to a remote place in north Karnataka as the offenders were friends of a minister’s son. The youths were brought to the police station after they attacked the staff of a bar and restaurant. But the minister’s son barged into the station at 2am, abused the staff and got his friends freed. The next morning, the inspector was transferred. This is one among several such cases,” a senior IPS officer said.
 
 Once, a senior leader allegedly shouted at a police officer that he “will kick you with my left leg” (nanna edagalu inda ninna oditini) as the latter, in his late 50s, had refused to allow a bunch of youths to enter the venue of a cultural event.
 
 “The officer was of the rank of the inspector general of police (IGP) and it happened in front of everyone. Imagine how he would have felt? ” said an IPS officer.
 
 
