VIJAYAWADA: Seven months after unearthing a pension scam, the vigilance and enforcement directorate (V&E) officials have submitted a scathing report to the principal secretary of the  . The report, which has been assessed by TOI, has named 18 people — all of whom are either currently working or have worked in the sub-treasury department at the time of the scam — and recommended stringent action against them.

 It may be recalled that on September 5 last year, V&E officials from Krishna district stumbled upon the scam when they found that  , an 82-year-old retired government school headmaster from  , had siphoned funds to the tune of Rs 2.5 crore from the state exchequer. As many as eight undeserving beneficiaries were later arrested by vigilance sleuths, including   and his family members. The cops suspect many more to be involved in the scam. 
 
 
  
 
 According to officials, Rangaramanujam used to take a 20 per cent share from the illegal beneficiaries’ monthly pension, along with Rs 5 lakh gratuity and commutation charges. The main accused’s additional income from the scam, apart from his own pension, is suspected to be more than a lakh of rupees per month. However, what’s more shocking and a matter of grave concern is the negligence, and collusion, of the treasury officials in the whole thing.
 
 The vigilance report has recommended criminal action against around 9 officials from the sub-treasury department for not verifying the pension files properly and for allegedly colluding with the accused. Disciplinary action has also been recommended against eight others, starting from despatch clerks to senior auditors, as they had failed to verify the pension files and releated records on a regular basis.
 
 “We have nabbed all the accused including the beneficiaries involved and filed a report to the government. The siphoned money would be recovered from them under the revenue recovery act,” M  , regional V&E SP, told TOI. 
 
 Main accused Rangaramanujam is a retired government school headmaster from Thotlavalluru village of Krishna district. After his retirement in 1993, he hit upon the idea of misappropriating pension money he was well acquainted with the preparation of pension proposals and other service matters. He started by adding his family members to the illegal beneficiaries’ list, but later added some other names from who he used to take a 20 per cent share of the pension amount.
 
 Shockingly, Rangaramanujam was also the president of Krishna district retired teachers’ association. The fake beneficiaries had also submitted forged birth certificates to prove their retirement age. Not all free things in life last long. In the end, the scam came to light as barring Rangaramanujam, none of the others ever worked as teachers but had been drawing teachers’ pension for the past 17 years. 
 
 The report also asked the principal secretary of finance department to instruct all sub-treasury officers (STOs) to thoroughly verify the documents of all the pensioners within their jurisdiction immediately. The report also recommends proper digitisation of sub-treasury offices to ensure transparency and accountability in the process of issuing pensions.
 
 
