LUDHIANA: A 40-year-old in an inebriated state allegedly murdered a six-year-old girl of the same locality after raping her late on Tuesday. He has been arrested.

 The accused took the girl from her house on the pretext of buying her snacks. Since the girl could not be found, her parents lodged a police complaint. However, on Wednesday morning, the girl was found murdered from a vacant plot, located merely 25m away from her house. The hand of the girl was tied by her ‘dupatta’ and injury marks were visible on her face and neck.
 
 Interestingly, the accused’s employer, along with some area residents, had already locked him inside a godown late on Tuesday night on the basis of suspicion. After the residents found the body of the girl the police was informed and the accused arrested. According to information, the accused has confessed to the crime. He stated that he had done it under the influence of alcohol. 
 
 The girls’ mother said that the accused was their neighbour, however, he never talked to her children. But on Tuesday, he took her daughter, bought her a packet of chips and dropped her back. A few minutes later he returned and asked my daughter to come along to get a samosa. “I stopped her but she did not listen to me. When she did not return even after half an hour I started looking for her but could not trace her. I informed my husband and started searching for my daughter. We reached the godown, where the accused was living. However, he was drunk and could not utter even a single word,” the victim’s mother said. 
 
 The kin immediately approached the police and lodged a complaint. The police, family and area residents kept searching for the girl the whole night, but to no avail. On Wednesday morning, around 7am some area residents noticed the body of the girl in the bushes of a vacant plot near her residence. 
 
 The additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-IV)   said, “The accused was drinking liquor with his friend in the godown on Tuesday evening. When he came outside to see off his friend, he saw the girl.” The   added that the accused took the girl on the pretext of getting her some snacks but he took her to the adjoining plot and committed the crime. After raping the girl, the accused strangulated her and reached the godown. 
 
 An FIR has been lodged against him under Sections 302 ( ) and 276 ( ) of the   and Prevension of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.
 
 
