COLVA: Benaulim MLA Churchill   in February had stated that he extended support to the BJP-led government as it sanctioned developmental projects worth Rs 100 crore in his constituency. 

 He said projects worth Rs 65 crore have been sanctioned by the Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC), Rs 25 crore by the Public Works Department and Rs 13.4 crore by the tourism department. 
 
 Elaborating further, he said that Rs 4.9 crore will be spent on the beautification of a bund in Orlim, Rs 13.4 crore for road widening and beautification at   and Rs 14 crore for improving the parking lot at Benaulim beach. When questioned as to why completion of the Benaulim–Sinquetim   could not be taken up as part of the developmental works, he said the PWD minister Ramkrishna Dhavalikar had promised him to engage another contractor to complete it. 
 
 During his stint as the PWD minister in the erstwhile   regime, Alemao had sanctioned this bridge at a cost of Rs 8.5 crore. An amount of Rs 3.8 crore has already been paid to the contractor M V Rao. The lone   in state said the bridge project was stalled due to political reasons. It is understood that there was an intense opposition from the then fisheries minister and   besides former Benaulim MLA Caitu D’Silva. 
 
 A public interest litigation was filed in the high court, which was later referred to the National Green Tribunal (NGT). It imposed certain conditions on the PWD and directed it to carry out the construction. However, there was no progress at all causing loss to the exchequer.
 
  Originally the bridge was planned as 4-lane, but in 2012, BJP government decided to allow only 2-wheelers by installing a meridian at both ends of the approach roads. Chief minister Manohar Parrikar later ordered that the bridge be completed as a foot bridge as there was objection from people. However, that too never materialized as no sanction was granted.“The prevailing situation is that the incomplete bridge is lying abandoned and a sad reminder of criminal waste of exchequer’s money,’’ a PWD engineer said on condition of anonymity.
 
 
