JAIPUR: Fog continued to affect air, road and rail traffic in the state on Friday when mercury took a bit upward swing. Though there was minor respite from the cold conditions compared to Thursday, it was not enough for many parts of the state where minimum temperatures were on or below 5 degrees Celsius. Mount Abu in hills while Alwar in plains, remained coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 2 degrees Celsius and 1.2 degrees Celsius respectively was recorded. 

 Northern and eastern parts of the state continued to be in the grip of severe cold wave conditions for the fourth consecutive day. However, early morning fog and mist at some parts of the state badly affected the air, road and rail traffic. 
 
 At least six early morning trains were running late while at least three early morning flights had a delayed take offs. The traffic on the highways connecting   to Churu, Jaipur to Delhi and Jaipur to Agra was chaotic due to the poor visibility in the morning. The visibility was low up to 100 metres at some of the highways. 
 
 Jaipurities woke up to a chilly morning as a minimum temperature of 7.4 degrees Celsius, almost 1 degree higher compared to Thursday’s minimum temperature was recorded. It was followed by an afternoon having chilly winds as a maximum temperature of 22.4 degrees Celsius was recorded. Continued dip in the mercury has also affected the footfall of morning walkers at the Central park. It has also increased the patients complaining of cough, cold and fever in the   of various private and government hospitals. “The number of cough, cold and even of respiratory problems cases have increased,” said a senior physician at the SMS hospital. 
 
 Mount Abu and Alwar were followed by Sirohi where a minimum temperature of 2 degrees Celsius was recorded,   3.7, Pilani 4.6, Udaipur 4.8, Sikar 5, Churu 6.1, Jaisalmer 7.3, Bikaner 7.5, Ajmer 7.8, Jodhpur 8.1, Kota 8.9 and in Barmer a minimum temperature of 13.1 degrees Celsius was recorded. 
 
 In its forecast Jaipur met office said that fog and mist would be witnessed at many places in the state.
 
