NEW DELHI: Shocked over   professor   getting bail, five women students of the university who have filed sexual harassment complaints against him countered his claims in the bail plea on Wednesday and said it was due to "institutional hierarchy" that one of them was forced to attend birthday and festival celebrations with him.

 
 They also claimed that six of the eight complainants belonged to the  , the  's student wing, and said the "Left conspiracy" smelt by the professor was just an attempt to give a political undertone to the matter.
 
 In his bail plea on Tuesday, Johri had said that in compliance with certain   guidelines as regards compulsory attendance and leave pattern, he had sent an e-mail on February 27 to certain students, including one of the complainants, warning them against their irregular attendance.
 
 "Before receiving the e-mail, the complainant had a cordial relation with me and my wife and she even celebrated birthdays and festivals with us," the professor had said in his bail plea.
 
 The five complainants told a press conference, "We are shocked at the accused getting bail. It was due to institutional hierarchy that one of the students was forced to attend birthday and festival celebrations with the professor."
 
 Requesting to avoid giving a political undertone to the issue, they said, "The excuse of attendance is being made to give this entire issue a political colour. There is no relation between attendance and sexual harassment."
 
 Stating that Johri was a vocal supporter of the BJP-RSS and that he had claimed that the complainants were Left supporters, the students said, "The truth is that many of us are registered members and supporters of ABVP. We want this to remain a serious case of sexual harassment and not a political one."
 
 They also said they dared to come out and put their academic, personal and professional lives at stake as others would continue to suffer if they did not speak up.
 
 The five students had their faces covered at the press meet.
 
