NEW DELHI: Former India allrounder  , while lauding the Indian team’s landmark first ODI series victory in South Africa, believes that the brittleness of the middle order could cause major worries in a busy season. 

 
 
 
 Writing in his column for TOI, Amarnath assessed India’s tour of South Africa and felt that though the team made history by winning their first ODI series in the country, losing the Test series should hurt given that they are ranked No 1 and went to South Africa hoping to beat the hosts. 
 
 “Although they won the ODIs comfortably, the main purpose of the South Africa tour would have been to win the Tests. So there is still some work to do as far as the five-day format is concerned and the combination still needs some work when they go abroad,” wrote Amarnath, who scored 4378 Test runs with 11 centuries. 
 
 
 
 “There’s no doubt that India are definitely playing their best cricket right now. The turnaround was winning that third and final Test and it was a crucial win. Although they had lost the series, we could see the intensity was always there, they wanted to do well and show the world that they could win Test matches away too. If luck had gone India’s way, they just might have won the Tests too.”
 
 Not for the first time, Amarnath expressed concern over the ODI team’s dependence on a couple batsmen - namely   and   who scored 528 and 332 runs respectively. 
 
 Since they won the dead rubber third Test match, India’s record on this tour is 6-1. They won the ODI series 5-1 and lead the ongoing T20I series 1-0. “As far as the one-dayers go, usually there is not much difference between sides in this format of the game. It depends on how you play on the day, but then again I felt India were riding on just one man, and that is the captain, Virat Kohli,” wrote the 67-year-old. “He is right there at the top with the best in the business. And that’s a very good sign for India. However, other than Virat and Shikhar Dhawan, we’ve not seen much from the rest in the batting department. The worry is, what if the top order doesn’t come through on a particular day, what would happen? It is here that India need to really work hard and try and get a settled and strong middle order.”
 
 South Africa’s struggles against the wristspinning pair of Yuzvendra Chahal and Kuldeep Yadav, who claimed 16 and 17 wickets during the ODIs, was followed by another poor batting display in the first T20I on Sunday. Set a target of 204, they finished on 175/9 with seam bowler Bhuvneshwar Kumar claiming 5/24. 
 
 In Amarnath’s view, South Africa’s struggles have them in a bad space and he backed India to close out the T20I series too. 
 
 “If they have been confused by the Indian spinners, on Sunday they were outdone by the medium pace of Bhuvneshwar Kumar. It doesn’t matter which format you’re playing, you still have to bowl in the right area, and still have to move the ball and keep the batsman guessing. In that respect, Bhuvneshwar is a very crafty bowler who has a lot of variation, with pace and slower deliveries, which he uses well in the death overs. He really controls the game when it comes to a tight situation. So India looks a much better, superior team, and they should win this T20 series as well,” wrote Amarnath.
 
