MUMBAI: This is a plot worth about Rs 500 crore, and it’s turning murky.

 The   recently discovered that a file dealing with the acquisition of a 13,674-sq m stretch of land in Jogeshwari was tampered with and remarks made on it by the commissioner,  , altered in an apparent bid to influence the outcome of a case between the land owner and the civic corporation.
 
 
  
 The commissioner, in his notings on the file, had said “we should challenge this in the Supreme Court”. Last week, civic officials, while looking through the papers, found the remark had been altered to read as “we shouldn’t challenge this...” (pic above).
 
 The fact that a forgery had taken place was established by CCTV footage at the BMC headquarters showing two unidentified visitors tinkering with the file.
 
 Police complaint filed after civic dept finds file tampered
 
 CCTV footage from the BMC headquarters showed two unidentified men had walked into the Development Plan (DP) department on the fifth floor of the building last week and proceeded to pick up the file, which was lying in a bunch on a cabinet. The cameras, placed in the department around a year ago, helped determine the time of the forgery and provided officials with sufficient cause to file a complaint.
 
 The development comes in the midst of a legal battle which will soon shift from the Bombay high court to the  . The BMC is in the process of filing a special leave petition (SLP) in the apex court against an order in the HC restoring the land at   in Jogeshwari east, partly encroached by slums, to its owner.
 
 The file which was tampered with, said an official, contained correspondence exchanged in the matter including purchase notices filed by the land owner in the name of the BMC commissioner and chief engineer for the plot in May 15, 2014.
 
 The plot was reserved by BMC for a recreational ground and hospital in what is primarily a residential zone. The purchase notices were served by the owner as required to intimate BMC about willingness to hand over the land for a fair price. But since the notice was served in the name of the BMC commissioner instead of BMC, it was rendered invalid.
 
 “Once the notice is filed, the land needs to be notified in one year’s time. In this case as the notice was rejected for being invalid, process of acquisition was delayed,” said the official.
 
 It was the delay in acquisition that prompted the land owner to approach the HC in 2016 to seek dereservation. The court in November 2017 ruled in his favour saying the reservation on the property had lapsed, except for the portion allocated for roads.
 
 The HC order could have generated a development potential of up to 5 lakh sq ft under a slum rehab project.
 
 A month later, in December 2017, a report was submitted to the municipal commissioner. The commissioner in his remarks on the file had then said “this is a serious matter…should be challenged in the Supreme Court.”
 
 The file moved between the office of the deputy law officer and other civic officials before a final decision was taken to file an SLP. “The file was received from the commissioner’s office on May 15 and on May 16 between 1.45 pm-2 pm, two unknown people made an inquiry about the file and when a clerk kept the file on a desk and moved from his seat to another table, the duo started looking through it,” said an official.
 
 On Thursday, BMC approached the Azad Maidan police station to file a complaint. Commissioner Ajoy Mehta said, “It is extremely serious that someone has tampered with the note given by me on the file. This only leads us to move towards restricting entry into the DP department in the building.”
 
