NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal   letters to Prime Minister Narendra   and Congress president   on Saturday, seeking the former’s intervention in introducing a   in Parliament to usher changes in law to   the   in Delhi and the latter’s help in insisting on such an enactment in the current session of the  . On Friday,   had announced that he would go on a hunger strike if the sealing did not stop by March 31.

 Acting on the directions of the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee, the municipal corporations have sealed a large number of commercial establishments for their failure to pay the land-use conversion charges and for other violations of the norms as set out in Delhi Master Plan 2021. 
 
 Warning that the largescale unemployment arising from the sealing of shops can impact the law and order situation in the capital, Kejriwal also sought time with the PM and Gandhi to discuss the “very serious” issue in an effort to find a just resolution. 
 
 In his letter to the PM, Kejriwal stressed on a Bill in Parliament to “remove anomalies in the law” that he said had led to the sealing of shops. Saying it was the responsibility of the Centre to remove such anomalies, he charged the Union government with failing to “take corrective action in time”. He added that the honest and tax-paying traders were facing the brunt of the sealing drive and were suffering.
 
 “The traders are on the verge of starvation because each shop is a means of livelihood,” Kejriwal wrote, while warning, “If all of them are rendered unemployed (due to sealing) then it may impact law and order situation.”
 
 In his letter to the Congress president, Kejriwal said, “This issue needs to be strongly raised in Parliament and pressure should be exerted on the Centre to bring a Bill to stop the sealing.” 
 
 Meanwhile, the Confederation of All India Traders has called a Delhi Trade Bandh on March 13 to protest against the sealings. After the Supreme Court restrained the Centre, Delhi government and Delhi Development Authority on Tuesday from giving effect to amendments in the master plan that would provide relief to the traders, the sealing drive has resumed. The apex court had expressed deep annoyance at DDA, the municipal corporations and Delhi government not “bothering” to file replies to the queries raised by the court on the matter.
 
 
