  : T he private contractor, carrying out revamp work at the   railway station, on Friday made massive cuts in parking charges after commuters raised a hue-and-cry over the issue a day earlier. Besides, the drop-and-go free time has been extended to 15 minutes from seven. 

 The parking charges are still around 10 times higher than they used to be earlier.
 
 The private contractor introduced a monthly pass system, which was Rs 5,000 for two-wheelers and Rs 16,000 for four-wheelers. When passengers protested the steep hike in parking charges, the railway board intervened and directed the contractor to reduce it to Rs 995 for two-wheelers and Rs 5,990 for four-wheelers per month.
 
 Earlier, the monthly pass used to cost Rs 120 for two-wheelers and Rs 300 for four-wheelers.
 
 Bhopal Divisional Railway Users' Consultative Committee (DRUCC) member Niranjan Wadhwani said, "The parking charges are almost similar to that of the airport. They should understand that at airport a vehicle is parked for around one hour but at railway station, passengers park it for 10 hours."
 
 He said, "Railways is used by people from every stratum. There are around 400 passengers, who travel daily for their work to Itarsi, Vidisha and Hoshangabad. They can't pay such steep parking charges."
 
 "Till now, a meeting between railway officials, passenger committees and railway advisory committees used to be conducted for making decisions. But, it has become a monopoly of the contractor after privatisation," he said.
 
 He alleged the private contractor is misusing his powers as the project is under public-private partnership (PPP) mode.
 
 West Central Railway Employee's Union (WCREU) executive chairman TK Gautam said, "Privatisation of railway station was not the right. We had staged a protest against the decision then, but none of the officials paid any heed to us."
 
 He said, "After parking, passengers are in for more problems in the future. We will bring the issue to the notice of central railway general manager DK Sharma and will try to get the parking charges little cheaper."
 
 Station's redevelopment project manager Abu Asif said, "The railway board has approved the revised parking charges under the monthly pass system. We want to promote use of public transport. People from nearby areas have stopped parking their vehicle due to high rates."
 
 He said, "To subscribe a monthly pass, an applicant will have to submit two documents including monthly season ticket (MST) and a letter from his employer mentioning that he/she commutes by train daily. We have received 20 applications for monthly pass so far. All of them are for two-wheelers."
 
 Meanwhile, the traffic chaos in front of Habibganj railway station continued to prevail on Friday due to the ongoing changes. A commuter Ramesh Ahirwar, who had come to pick his wife, was forced to pay the parking fee because he was stuck in the jam in the drop-and-go lane.
 
 "Due to the narrow lane and people, who left their cars parked on the roadside, I got stuck in the jam. It got cleared only after the person returned and removed his car. Since my free waiting time was over, I had to pay the parking charge," said Ahirwar.
 
 Besides, many passengers parked their vehicles on the main road in front of the station creating traffic jam.
 
 A passenger Krish Kukreja said, "I had difficulty entering the station as the entrance gate was jammed with cars of people, who had come to pick the passengers."
 
 He said, "Either they should reduce parking charges or provide proper facility to avoid the inconvenience caused to the public."
 
 He alleged that a person should be deployed to ensure that no one leaves his car parked in the drop-and-go lane to prevent traffic jam.
 
 
