CHENNAI: There are stories aplenty that reinforce the belief that matinee idol-turned-politician M G Ramachandran was a legend. But, what lends credibility to the belief is that he continues to hold sway over Dravidian politics, decades after his death. So much so, another actor,  , who continued to disappoint fans and friends with his reluctance to take the political plunge, has decided to craft his new party on the lines of ADMK with a promise to provide an MGR-style government. 

 
  
  
 
 
 As Tamil Nadu waits with bated breath for the announcement of a new political outfit, a quiet move is on to create a   comprising contemporaries of the   founder — they may be politicians, retired civil servants, industrialists, educationists or activists — from whom he hopes to draw inspiration.
 
 Sources said the yet-to-be formed group of AIADMK leaders and   associates is aimed at providing valuable inputs to Rajinikanth that would help him take the final step and draft a policy in sync with his slogan to offer a government like that led by MGR. Hoping to ape the successful the MGR formula and translate it into modern-day politics, the actor is working on picking up ‘some honest leaders with integrity’ within AIADMK and those who have crossed over to other parties.
 
 One of his trusted associates, educationist and leader of the New Justice Party A C Shanmugam admitted that the actor was indeed talking to MGR associates from various fields. "MGR’s rule was a golden period. Rajinikanth himself said MGR’s was a super government. The actor hopes to emulate the great leader," said Shanmugam. It was at an event organised by Shanmugam’s Dr MGR Educational and Research Institute in Chennai in March that Rajinikanth took a significant political leap to declare that Tamil Nadu needed a political revolution. "I may not be MGR, but I can provide a government that MGR gave people of Tamil Nadu," said the actor, jerking politicians out of their complacency.
 
 Rajinikanth’s party, sources added, will be fashioned after the highly successful ADMK launched by MGR in 1971, giving no room for corruption, and will incorporate the dynamic structures of a modern-day political party. There is talk that the actor may announce the name of his party by May-end. "I believe he is contacting old friends," said former DGP A X Alexander, who is now an AIADMK member.
 
 There are a lot of similarities between MGR and Rajinikanth, say associates. "Both are simple by nature. They are not ostentatious and both are honest and affectionate. These virtues made MGR a great leader. Rajinikanth could make one too," said Shanmugam.
 
 There are a few sceptical about his abilities to run a party and win an election. "Rajinikanth seems to lack the fire," said V V Swaminathan. The former minister said he had written to Rajinikanth ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, urging him to join the   and contest elections. "Later, he called me and said he would consider entering politics," said Swaminathan. Taking a vastly different stand from that of his party, the BJP, 91-year-old medical practitioner and former health minister in the MGR government H V Hande, when asked about associating himself with Rajinikanth quipped, "I am not ready to submit myself to pygmies. (Rajinikanth & Kamal Haasan)." 
 
 Despite talk of the grand plans, many leaders are reluctant to follow the superstar considering his prevarication. For instance, though AIADMK’s Saidai Duraisamy was seen at a recent function with Rajinikanth, sources say, he is still weighing his options about joining the actor. And it is not just him, until the new party is launched few are willing to commit. While some associates of the actor say that he is still apprehensive about his political entry,   chief S Thirunavukkarasar, who has been interacting with him in the past few months, disagrees. "My guess is he will not disappoint his fans. He will launch a party."
 
 
