NAGPUR: To tackle the impending water crisis, the   (NMC) is set to take over all the wells and borewells in the city, and open them up for citizens, to help tide over the water shortage in the coming months.

 “The civic body plans to utilize 608 wells and  ,840 bore wells in the city,” said a senior official from NMC’s water works department. “The identified open wells and bore wells, including private and commercial ones, will be opened to public in the coming days,” the officer told TOI.
 
 Orange City Water (OCW) pumps roughly 640-660 MLD water to the city from Kanhan river (200 MLD) and Pench reservoir. Due to scanty rainfall in 2017 and commissioning of Chaurai dam in the upstream of Totladoh dam in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh, the water storage level in dams is around 20%.
 
 The water level in Kanhan begins to drop in April every year, and, like in 2017, it happened this year in February itself. Besides this,   (VIDC) had demanded a drastic cut in NMC water consumption. NMC’s reservation in Totladoh is 190 mm3. VIDC says that as per norms, it should be only 106 mm3. A case is going on in Maharashtra Water Resources Regulatory Authority (MWRRA) in this regard and a decision may come in the next meeting scheduled to be held on March 15.
 
 Though at present the civic body has not announced any water cuts in the city, the water works department has kept the option open. The officer, however, was quick to point out that water from both open and bore wells is not potable drinking water. The official said that officials of the department will visit sites where the wells have been dug up.
 
 “Once the bore wells and dug wells are taken over by the civic body, they will be monitored by the authorities, to ensure proper use by people. The officials will do site visits and check if the wells have been thrown open to public or not. If owners prevent people from using the wells, necessary action will be taken against them,” he said.
 
 Recently, NMC’s standing committee has given its nod to water works department’s proposal of Rs12.08 crore to keep alternate sources of water supply ready, other than the present two sources — Totladoh reservoir and Kanhan river.
 
 
