Panchayat Raj expert professor G Palanidurai of Gandhigram Rural University says, in this interview with TOI’s Padmini Sivarajah, that even 25 years after amendment was made to the Constitution, where Part IX and IX (a) gave the people enormous powers to govern their local bodies, many are unaware of its importance and nuances. How important is gram sabha? It is extraordinary because it integrates people with the local bodies. It is a constitutional body with a lot of powers. Many villages face environmental concerns and gram sabhas have passed resolutions against polluting organizations. Will they be effective? It is important that resolutions on environmental issues are passed with proper scientific validation. If that is done after such evaluation, nothing can prevent the polluting body from being removed from the vicinity of the concerned village. According to the Constitution, the gram sabha’s decision will be final in this regard. What is the difference between a gram sabha and gram panchayat? Gram sabha consists of every adult member of the village. The gram panchayat is an executive body elected by the gram sabha. Which is more powerful? The gram sabha, as it has to develop the annual development plan, budget, monitor government schemes, select beneficiaries, conduct a social audit, and most of all, approve the audit report of the village’s expenditure. What is the role of the district collector here? He is the inspector of panchayats and has to ensure their proper functioning. How important are gram sabha meetings? The nation’s development begins here. Quorum and proper representation of women and dalits are must, but this is not followed at many gram sabha meetings today as people lack awareness. These meetings are also places of information flow and dissemination which help development at the socio economic level. How will lack of awareness affect the people? People do not realise that they have the power to question their elected representative, the panchayat president and members and do not exercise it. The panchayat president who is elected today acts more like a contractor with an eye on the contracts and money.