KOLKATA: The CBSE circular to schools making it mandatory for every child from standards IX to XII to attend physical education classes elicited a mixed response from city schools. While some thought the rule was based on lofty, but impractical, ideology given that studies in these higher classes become extremely tough, others thought that once the board handed the rule down, the schools have no choice but to implement it.

 The circular says physical activities would be graded and on the basis of these grades the students will be allowed to take their board exams. While games, physical activities and yoga are part of school life in most CBSE schools in Kolkata, teachers felt students were no longer able to pack in much beyond Class VIII. The time table changes completely in classes IX-XII. The years preceding the two board exams consist of intense teaching-learning and sparing even 45 minutes daily for games becomes extremely challenging.
 
 “Our school offers a variety of games to students up to Class VIII and the premises are packed to capacity with practising children already. We did not have daily games woven into the routine for classes IX-XII till now. It will definitely not be an easy task. We are holding discussions about how this can be done,” said Mukta Nain, director of Birla High School.
 
 The feedback from almost all leading CBSE schools in the city, including Lakshmipat Singhania Academy, Apeejay Schools, Bharatiya Vidya Bhawan and the Kendriya Vidyalaya Schools, was more or less the same. Debates and discussions were held on how to tweak the routine to have kids play games every day.
 
 “We have no choice here. We will have to implement the circular because it has come from the Board. Personally, I feel it will help the study-weary minds because children tend to be overloaded with academics in these final years,” said Rekha Vaishya, principal of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan.
 
 The   of the eastern region, which runs at least 45 KV schools in the city and surroundings, has also been deliberating on the circular. Legally ,however, the circular is not binding upon the Sangathan, which has the freedom to follow its own rules. KV schools offer a liberal dose of physical activities for its students, said assistant commissioner  . “In the plus-two section, we offer physical education as a sixth additional subject. This has theory and practical divisions. Many students take this up because it is a scoring subject. But how we can make this a mandatory period every day for such senior students is being deliberated upon at KVS now,” he added.
 
 Students and parents, however, felt this was going to be an additional burden.  , whose daughter Nisha has just gone up to Class IX in KV  , said, “We have discontinued with her dance classes because we thought that these four years need full focus on studies and now there is such absurd talk of games.”
 
