In the latest episode of  , Dadi calls the Singhanias over to discuss something. Naitik decides to call Naira and ask her if everything was okay. Hearing this, she gets worried.

 At home, Manish and Suwarna ask Dadi about the matter. The Singhanias arrive and Naira is also present in the hall.
 
 Dadi confronts Naira and says that somethings shouldn't be discussed in the open but she had no choice left as the latter did not tell her that she could not conceive. Everyone gets shocked. Naira interrupts Dadi and tells her what the doctor had told her.
 
 Naira apologises to everybody and says that Kartik and she chose to keep this news a secret after hearing about Kirti’s pregnancy. Naira says they had a reason to keep the news private but lashes out at Dadi, saying that she had no right to humiliate them.
 
 Naira says that she felt like a stranger in her own house. She asks Dadi why did she go to the doctor's clinic all alone without even asking them. 
 
 Kartik is also present in the room and consoles Naira. She says that she is already upset about not getting a chance to be a mother but Dadi’s words had hurt her even more. Kartik tells Dadi that they were trying to solve their problems but Dadi shouldn't have done something like that.
 
 After learning about Naira’s troubles and Dadi’s accusations, Naksh is very disturbed. Bhabhimaa asks him to relax but Naksh says he won’t let anything happen to Naira.
 
 Niara goes to her room crying and throws things around in anger. Dadi comes and apologises for humiliating her. Dadi says she wanted to make things right and settle the matter which Naira and Kartik hid from her all along. Naira says she should have confronted them in private, not in front of everyone. Dadi says sorry and hugs her, adding that she will try to change.
 
 Kirti feels sorry for Naira and says that she was so happy and helpful despite having her own issues to deal with. Manish and Suwarna come and console Naitik and regret that they were not helpful before. Devyaani also comes and tells them not to lose hope. Naitik tells them to be patient.
 
 After everyone leaves, Naira and Kartik hug each other and say that they are so grateful for their family who has been so helpful. They promise to help each other and not let their worries get the better of them.
 
