CHANDIGARH: The   investigations have revealed that Dera Sacha Sauda ( ) chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh resorted to large scale castration of fulltime sadhus/sewadars, devotees and managers of the sect from 1999-2000 "to make them useless to the rest of society and make them dependent on the dera for life". 

 The premier agency has found that the management was bent upon retaining the young boys who joined as 'sewadars' and rendered totally free but valuable service in its functioning.
 
 
  
 
  "They planned to make them useless to the rest of society by making them impotent and resorted to castrations. It was done so that they they could play in the hands of the dera chief," the CBI investigation has found.
 
 These details are part of the chargesheet filed by the CBI regarding the allegations of castration of around 400 followers inside dera, before the special CBI magistrate in Panchkula.
 
 Investigations have also revealed that   had adopted tactics of showing his closeness to such devotees who succumbed to his pressure for castration.
 
  "He used to play games with castrated devotees and showered special blessings on them. He was more accessible to the castrated devotees and used to induce them to get castrated if they desired to be closed to him," says the CBI probe. The details of the investigations, accessed by TOI, further revealed that the operations for castration were conducted by Dr Pankaj Garh, Dr M P Singh mainly at Shah Satnam Ji Specialty Hospital, Sirsa;   premises inside   dera; Shah Satnam ji  , Gurusar Modia, Sriganganagar in Rajasthan; and at the ' ' in the Sirsa dera premises.
 
  It was also revealed that the castration was conducted by doctors in the presence and at the behest of the dera chief.
 
 "He used to personally meet young devotees and inspire them to go in for castration. He had been impressing upon the sadhus that if they got castrated, they would realize God easily. In 1999, he publically stated that he would get sadhus of DSS castrated to ensure that their minds were not diverted towards any wrong path," the CBI findings revealed.
 
 According to the investigative agency, the dera chief wanted to utilize the services of castrated devotees for guarding his dwelling unit - Gufa - and the residences of sadhvis (women disciples). Documentary and oral evidence collected in this case revealed that persuasive and threatening tactics were adopted by the then management of DSS. 
 
 The witnesses including Hans Raj Chauhan, Gurdas Singh Toor, Khatta Singh and   have given graphic details of how the dera chief succeeded in castration of large number of people, says the CBI report. Details of confessional statements of devotees who were castrated, medical examination reports and depositions made by some devotees before the magistrate regarding castration are part of the voluminous chargesheet submitted by CBI in Panchkula last week.
 
 
