Vadodara: A new controversy has surfaced at M S University’s Faculty of Social Work with messages in circulation that the faculty has threatened to bar students from appearing in their forthcoming examinations if they fail to pay fees for the recently held HR convention.  Since Monday night, such messages are in circulation on social media groups stating that all the students of the faculty are supposed to pay Rs100 each as fees for the HR convention that was held on February 10. “Those who have not paid the fees of HR convention, plz pay by Wednesday itself otherwise who have not paid will not be allowed to sit in the exams, Rs100 compulsory for everyone who attended or not attended, everyone has to pay (sic)” – read one such message issued by a student leader.  A couple of students told TOI that although such messages are circulated by student representatives, the latter themselves spread such messages based on verbal directives they receive from faculty officials, especially the faculty dean. “If we do not pay the fees our careers get damaged as there is 50% weightage of practical examinations which are granted on the basis of field work where performance is a subjective issue and no student can opt for reassessment,” said an MSW student.  Ironically, the faculty had quite a good number of corporate sponsors for the HR convention which was held at the faculty premises itself. There are nearly 400 students enrolled in bachelor’s and master’s of social work apart from those enrolled with the master’s of human resource management programme. The examinations are scheduled to begin from Wednesday and will continue till February 28.  When contacted, dean of the faculty professor Jagdish Solanki denied any threats or compulsion on students.  “It is true that we had kept Rs100 as fees to meet the expenses incurred on food for those students who had attended the convention. But there is no compulsion whatsoever on students. Also, there is no question of collecting such fees from those students who have not attended the convention,” he said.  Solanki said there is no question of linking the fees with examinations. “I will issue necessary circular clarifying all these aspects and will also monitor them with students so that there is no miscommunication,” he said. 