CHENNAI: Of the 5.66 lakh undergraduate engineering (B.E/B.Tech) students studying in colleges affiliated to Anna University across the state, nearly 46% (2.57 lakh) have flunked their even semester exams.

 
 The four-year engineering course in the state is divided into four even and four odd semesters of six months duration each.
 
 At least 274 of the 508 affiliated (non-autonomous) colleges have recorded a pass percentage of less than 50% and seven colleges have pass percentage in single digits, according to data circulated to colleges by the university on Monday.
 
 In one college located in the city suburbs, only one student managed to pass the semester exam.
 
 This is the fourth year in a row that affiliated colleges of the Anna University have recorded poor results in their even semester exams.
 
 Experts attributed this to three issues: Not enough qualified faculty in colleges, poor lab facilities, and lack of support for academically weak students from the government. “Teachers, who are not paid as per government norms, lack motivation to inspire students. The college managements are keen only on making money through admissions,” said former Anna University vice-chancellor EBalagurusamy.
 
 
 
 
 Chennai: “They are not bothered about developing infrastructure for students’ welfare. Theuniversity shouldhave recommended the closure of these institutions,   said. “Additional attention should have been given to students[notup tothe mark].”
 
 Educationist   said there are several factors that impact the result. Thereis a huge variation in performances in odd and even semesters, he said. Even semesters are interspersed with symposiums and cultural and sportsevents andstudentshave less time to prepare for the exam,hesaid.Another factor that influences the results, he said, isthezone-basedevaluation.
 
 Gandhi called for a makeover in theexam pattern. “Instead of burdening students with six papers, the colleges should reduceittofour papers per semester and focus more on practical aspects,” hesaid.
 
 Regional Centre of Anna University, Tirunelveli, topped the performance chart. Sairam Engineering College, PSG Institute of Technology and Applied Research and Velammal Instituteof Technology madeit tothetop-10list.
 
