Bhopal: Private medical practitioners in the state capital joined a 12-hour nationwide strike call by the India Medical Association (IMA) here on Tuesday. IMA is opposing the proposed National Medical Commission (NMC) Bill 2017 that lays down policies for regulating medical institutions, medical professionals, besides framing new rules for promoting crosspathy.  With confusion over status of medical OPD in private hospitals, many patients preferred to seek treatment at government hospitals.  As a result, number of out-patients nearly doubled at JP hospital on Monday, with doctors having to work beyond regular work hours.  However after IMA’s decision to call off strike, services at all private health care units were back to normal by 4.30 pm. MP medical officers association representative Dr Lalit Shrivatava said, “Strike call was withdrawn after the bill was referred to a parliamentary standing committee.”  Earlier, IMA Bhopal president Dr Atul Gupta said that IMA had sought cooperation of the fraternity to force the government to review its stand over amendments that could adversely impact medical practice. The bill seeks to regulate medical education and practice in India.  To meet this objective, the bill repeals the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 and dissolves the current Medical Council of India (MCI). The MCI was established under the 1956 Act to formulate uniform standards of higher education qualifications in medicine and regulate its practice.  A committee was set up in 2016 under the NITI Aayog with Dr Arvind Panagariya as its chair to review the 1956 Act and recommend changes to improve medical education and the quality of doctors in India. The committee proposed that the Act be replaced by a new law and also proposed a draft bill in August 2016.  Controversial additions include laying down policies for regulating medical institutions and medical professionals, assessing the requirements of human resources and infrastructure in healthcare, among others. 