Mangaluru: Travelling from Point A to Point B in city buses across the district will henceforth cost you at least Rs 8.

 “The   comes in the backdrop of the Dakshina Kannada Bus Operators’ Association increasing the fare by Re 1, per stage, from Wednesday, owing to the frequent rise in prices of diesel and accessories,” Azeez Parthipady, president of the association, stated in a press release.
 
 Parthipady said the prices of spare parts, oil, tyres, chassis and insurance premium had increased by 25% - 30% and the public transport business had turned into a loss-making equation. “Hence, the bus owners decided to increase the price by Re 1, so bus operators can sustain the business while on the other hand, the public isn’t much burdened,” he said.
 
 Earlier the price used to vary according to stages. The association this time has decided to go with a uniform raise of Re 1. For example, the longest route taken by the city bus service is between State Bank and Mulki, covering a distance of 28.4 km one-way. The ticket for the same will cost Rs 21 instead of Rs 20.
 
 “The   was last increased on November 15, 2016, to the fare that was prevalent as on July 1, 2014. The fare was decreased by Re 1 on January 12, 2015, as the price of diesel had dipped. The price on diesel currently is Rs 66.31, an increase from Rs 56.25 in November 2016,” the release stated. 
 
 “As per the state government notification dated July 31, 2013, surcharge per seat in buses has been hiked by 4 paise/km with the hike in prices of diesel, oil, lubricants, steel and tax. As the prices of diesel and other commodities have been hiked several times in the past, the surcharge has been hiked by Re 1,” he explained.
 
 The fare in all Express and Service buses has already been hiked since April 16.
 
 Parthipady said the buses will continue to provide subsidised travel for students. While students from Class I to Class VII will get a 75% discount on travel, students from class VIII will get a discount of 60%. According to Parthipady, the contribution of the association since 1980 to the student community is Rs 14,37,15,630.
 
 Parthipady has requested the government to reduce the excise duty on fuel and subject the fuel price to GST in order to bring down the fuel prices, and thereby help reduce bus fares.
 
 
