NAGPUR:   Champion Divya Deshmukh is off to a flying start in 2018. In her first tournament in the New Year, the 12-year-old cleared her maiden norm of becoming city’s first Women International Master (WIM) on Sunday.

 With an Elo rating of 2128 Divya entered as an 89th seed in the IIFL Wealth 3rd  , she came up with a surprise for higher-rated masters to achieve a performance rating of 2310 Elo points. 
 
 Having cleared a required performance rating of 2250, Divya achieved her first WIM norm. To become a WIM, Divya now needs to clear two more norms and maintain an international rating of 2250 Elo points.
 
 She had a fabulous 2017. Divya not only won the World Cadet chess title but captured as many as eight international medals last year. “I wish to increase my rating points and become a Grandmaster,” Divya had told TOI after winning World cadet crown last year.
 
 Continuing from where she had left last year, Divya started 2018 with a bang and in the nine-round IIFL Mumbai international chess tournament, city’s little chess queen garnered as many as 86 Elo points to stretch her international rating to 2214. She is now 36 points short to clear another criteria of becoming WIM.
 
 In Mumbai, Divya kick started her campaign with a surprising draw against 11th seed GM Nguyen Duc Hoa of Vietnam in the opening round. Despite losing the second round battle to Vidarbha’s only GM Swapnil Dhopade, Divya fought back with four fluent wins. 
 
 Thereafter, Divya forced three higher-rated masters to share the points for the desired result. In the seventh round, Divya held Egypt’s  , while drew her penultimate round with city   before holding the experienced Indian   in the ninth and final round. 
 
 With four wins, as many draws and a defeat, Divya garnered six points and posted a performance rating of Elo 2310.
 
 “If Divya maintains her consistent performance in the international tournaments, she will soon become city’s first WIM,” said international arbiter Swapnil Bansod.
 
