Gurgaon: The sector road whose construction had threatened the status of a 113-year-old stepwell will likely be realigned, to save the structure from being knocked down. Both the district administration and Huda have assured that the baoli will be protected. “We will do our best to save the structure,” deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh told TOI.

 On Sunday morning, Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav visited the site in Badshapur. Following inspection, Yadav had asked engineers to demarcate the land and get back to him with details.
 
 Incidentally, the baoli did not figure in the Gurgaon-Manesar Development Plan 2031. But with the structure clearly in the way of the road’s path, and also new residential blocks coming up along the under-construction stretch, the road’s alignment will need to be altered if the baoli is to be saved.
 
 And Huda has committed to making the changes.
 
 “We’re trying to find a solution, and we’re ready to show it to Huda also, if they want our help,” shared Shikha Jain, convenor of INTACH’s Haryana chapter. “We have told them that if they give us the map, we can also help them in the realignment.”
 
 The sector road under question is supposed to connect Kadarpur, a village in one of Gurgaon’s southern sectors, to Sohna Road via Badshapur.
 
 “I have spoken to the Huda administrator, and they’ve stopped the construction as of now. They’re finding a way out so that this historical heritage can be saved, and at the same time the road can be constructed,” the DC added.
 
 A monument of historical importance, the baoli has undergone structural damage due to rampant encroachment, construction over the catchment area and dumping of garbage. Despite the neglect it has faced, the structure’s architectural details have been well documented, and if restored, it can become what it once was – a place to store water in what is a dry region.
 
 The stepwell has four tanks, of which tank no. 4, the smallest in the complex, was used by women. There is an arch separating tanks no. 1 and no. 2, and an arched partition wall between tanks no. 2 and no. 3. A corridor goes around tank no. 4, another around the west of the structure. There is an entrance from the south and from the east, and enclosures at the baoli’s southwest and southeast corners.
 
 The uncertainty over the baoli’s future cropped up in January 2017, when it became clear that this piece of architectural history had little chance of survival. 
 
 A year on, despite official guarantees of protection, it’s a case of déjà vu. But hopefully, the ending this time around will be happier, and the baoli can be restored to its former glory. For, in a region that faces a depleting water table, the conservation methods of the past can come to the rescue of the present – and future.
 
 
