THANJAVUR: Rebel AIADMK leader and founder of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) T T V Dhinakaran said on Sunday that having undertaken a "hunger fast" in protest against the Centre's inaction, he will wait until March 29, when the six-week deadline set by the Supreme Court to implement it's suggestion to formulate a scheme for sharing   ends.
 
 “If nothing happens from the Union Government by then, I will move a review petition against the  . As against, the popular belief that one cannot go on an appeal on this apex court order, I understand we can file a review petition and I will do that," TTV thundered, ending his nearly 10-hour hunger fast at the   in Thanjavur, which is considered to be the turf of V K Sasikala clan.
 
 TTV recalled former chief minister  's assertion earlier at Thanjavur that whenever a government fails to implement an order of the Supreme Court, that is when they neither notify it in the gazette nor set up a committee, then the state can go on appeal. "Farmers representatives from Trichy, who met here, have also advised the same," he said.
 
 TTV attacked both the Centre and the state government for this sordid state on Cauvery issue. "The Centre is not only delaying, but also offering something in a different name. They are having only Karnataka elections in mind and hence not acting," he said.
 
 He also chided chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister   for playing ball with the Centre. "Sometime back, EPS and OPS abandoned the post of general secretary in the AIADMK. That is because, they now have a general secretary in Delhi in Modi. OPS himself has openly said, he agreed to merge with EPS and join the cabinet only on Modi's advise," TTV said.
 
 "People are watching closely and silently. They have always done that and that's why they gave 37 MPs to the party. Instead of acting in Tamil Nadu's interest, they are staging protests in Parliament to help Centre tide over the 'No Confidence" issue. All those who came to power due to Anna's benevolence, will lose their deposits in the next election," he said.
 
 Earlier, before beginning his hunger fast, he termed the Tamil Nadu cabinet ministers as a bunch of jokers, who will agree to whatever the Centre says. He offered floral tributes to portraits of MGR and Jayalalithaa and sat through the whole session, hearing speeches of farmers and party leaders. All of them attacked Prime Minister  , chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy CM O Panneerselvam.
 
 While TTV succeeded in projecting himself and his party as saviours of farmers. Several representatives of farmers' organisations, including C Ranganathan, Ayyakannu and P R Pandian, besides Tamil movement leader, P Nedumaran, were present. 
 
 "AMMK will stand by farmers if they feel that Neduvasal or Kadhiramangalam or even Neutrino and ONGC projects will affect their livelihood. This is not for political gain, but to safeguard farmers livelihood and Tamil Nadu people's welfare," he concluded, amid thunderous applause from thousands of partymen gathered at the venue despite the sweltering heat.
 
 "The farmers issues can be solved only when political parties join hands and collectively act. At the same time, after seeing the conviction with which TTV spoke, I stand by him to move a contempt of court petition in SC against the Centre’s inaction," Ranganathan said. He offered a glass of juice to TTV for him to end the fast.
 
 
