Thiruvananthapuram: Fed up with the inordinate delay in tendering process, the people along the Karamana-Kaliyikkavila stretch are planning a major   by the first week of March where it will turn two years after the official launch of second phase of the road widening project.

 The road widening action council has decided to rope in former chief minister Oommen Chandy who launched work of second phase from   to Kodinada by distributing compensation for people in March 1, 2016.
 
 Two years after the then UDF government inaugurated the first phase from   to Pravachambalam and works of second phase, there has been no considerable progress in the project. Though the revenue department has handed over most of the land for the project, displacement of around 22 families in the old Rajapatha at Pravachambalam remains a major hurdle. The cabinet, in last November, had decided to allot 3 cents and houses under LIFE Mission to the 22 families staying in the puramboke land. They could not be shifted so far.
 
 Mannankal Ramachandran, general secretary (Nemom) of the action council, said that they are planning a road blockade at Pravachambalam on the second anniversary. “Since March 1 is a day ahead of the Attukal Pongala, we have decided to postpone the date. It will be held somewhere around first week of March,” he said.
 
 “We are inviting former chief minister as he kick started the work two years ago by inaugurating distribution of compensation. M Sivakumar MLA had distributed compensation for all landowners in Pravachambalam-Pallichal reach,” he said.
 
 The NH officials had cited revisal of detailed project report by incorporating latest traffic data as reason for delay in issuing tender. Still the   was said to be issued by December end.
 
 As per the original project, second phase was planned from Pravachambalam to Vazhimukku, which is around 6.5km. However, acquisition of land from Kodinada to Vazhimukku hit a hurdle as notification was issued only after new land acquisition norms came into effect. 
 
 
