Tirunelveli: Kadal Kuthiraigal, a   on the struggles faced by Sri Lankan Tamils and the anti-nuclear protests at Idinthakarai in Tirunelveli district has finally been given clearance by the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC), but not before undergoing some drastic cuts. “CBFC gave us 32 recommendations, for which we had to cut scenes at 68 places and also mute dialogues at many places to get the clearance,” said its director, Pugalenthi Thangaraj.

 Talking to TOI on Thursday after briefing the press on the India premiere of the two-hour long film scheduled to begin on Sunday (January 21), Thangaraj said the film is about the life of five girls studying Plus One who scale to great heights in freestyle 4X100m swimming. “It is with Sri Lankan Tamil issue and anti-nuclear protest in the background as their school is located close to the anti-nuclear protest venue at Idinthakarai,” he said.
 
 Thalaivasal Vijay plays the lead role in the film, where he rescues a Tamil girl who swims all the way from Sri Lanka to Tamil Nadu, to save her life during the genocide. She joins four other students of the school who are from Idinthakarai. He recalled that they shot the film in 2014 and 2015 and fought for clearance for the next two years.
 
 “There are no double meaning jokes or obscene dialogues but we faced difficulty in releasing it. The recommendations included removing scenes with Tamil in Sri Lankan dialect and many dialogues that were against Kudankulam Nuclear Power Plant, or nuclear energy in general and words on the genocide at Sri Lanka. We had to argue with CBFC and revising committee,” he added.
 
 After suffering many cuts and pauses, the film looked incomplete in 2016 and the last 10 minutes had to be res-hot and reworked with permission from the CBFC and was ready for release last year. The director added that after all the editing and corrections they tried their best to ensure that the core message of the film did not suffer, even though one might notice the scenes skipping.
 
 The worldwide premiere of the film began at Toronto, Canada, on December 28. The premiere at Tirunelveli will be exclusively for fishermen who took part in the anti-nuclear protest. On January 28 it will be screened exclusively for the Lankan Tamils at Chennai. Recalling the difficulty he faced in the release of his film Utchithanai Mukarnthal and controversies over Padmaavat, the director criticised CBFC for allegedly dancing to the tunes of the Centre.
 
 
