CHENNAI: In a major overhaul ahead of the 2019 Lok   election, the   has issued a directive asking office-bearers to retain just one post per leader and relinquish any other post they may hold.

 The party appeared to have effected the rule to accommodate more party leaders in a bid to garner a larger total share of the vote, analysts said. 
 
 The DMK sent out the directive to district secretaries, asking them to fill the vacant posts soon and intimate the party headquarters when they do.
  
  
 A statement DMK general secretary   issued on Tuesday said partymen should retain only one post as many grassroots cadres during their interaction with DMK working president M K   complained about leaders holding more than one post. 
 
 “Those holding dual posts must come forward to voluntarily give up one post and convey their decision to the district secretaries in writing. The district secretaries must fill up the vacancies and convey it to the party headquarters on or before March 31,” said Anbazhagan. 
 
 The directive is aimed at lower- and middle-level posts. 
 
 “There are many lower level leaders who hold two posts. Cadres, who met Stalin, complained about a union secretary holding another post at a lower level. This has created rifts among partymen. Anbazhagan’s order is only to resolve this issue,” said a senior party leader not willing to be named.
 
 Asked whether the latest order will apply to Stalin as well, the leader said, “Stalin has been made working president by a special resolution passed by the party as DMK president M   is not well. 
 
 Whenever Karunanidhi is back, the working president post will automatically be abolished. Stalin is a treasurer and by virtue of being in that post, he is a member of the high level committee. All committee member posts are only ex-officio,” said the leader.
 
 DMK spokesman and   MP T K S Elangovan said the one-man, one-post rule was not a new phenomenon. “It is in the DMK’s bylaws, but was not enforced strictly,” he said
 
 “The party wishes to respect the views expressed by cadres during their meeting with Stalin. There are senior leaders who hold even three posts,” said a senior DMK leader, seeking anonymity. 
 
 The shake-up is expected to facilitate re-organisation of the party as the membership drive has been completed. 
 
 “It was only after this that Stalin decided to meet the party workers. The daily meeting has been an eye-opener for him,” said the leader. Many new faces are likely to be appointed in posts vacated at the lower and middle level. 
 
 
