NEW DELHI: The city traders are unlikely to get any relief from the   immediately with the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee on Wednesday refusing to accept an all-party request to postpone the drive for now. 

 K J Rao, a member of the committee, said, “We were called by the party members to listen to their grievances. However, we have been acting on the orders of the Supreme Court. The   drive will continue as per its order.” 
 
 After BJP deciding to join the second all-party meeting on sealing, called by chief minister  ,  , opposition leader Vijender Gupta, south corporation mayor Kamaljeet Sehrawat, Congress councillor Abhishek Dutt and AAP’s Saurabh Bharadwaj joined the Delhi ministers to urge the SC committee to halt the drive.
 
 “Representatives of all three parties, along with the council of ministers, met SC-appointed monitoring committee. Urged them to stop sealing till SC judgement on this issue,” Kejriwal tweeted.
 
 The committee pointed out that “only a central ordinance could stop the drive”, said Bharadwaj, AAP’s Delhi chief spokesperson. The ruling party in Delhi has been demanding an ordinance to give relief to traders. 
 
 Delhi BJP’s Tiwari said the committee was informed about the sufferings of the people and pleaded that as the case was spending in SC, continuing the drive was inhuman. “The ways and means should be found to de-seal these properties. All agencies should be given a year to find a solution that benefits all. The law that becomes a cause of suffering for so many people should be amended.” He added that the Centre and DDA were trying to find such a solution within the framework of the Constitution.
 
 Leader of opposition Gupta said a trader should not be asked to deposit a fee of Rs 1 lakh to lodge an objection when he has to pay only Rs 10,000 as conversion charges. “This must be amended.” 
 
 Claiming that properties were being sealed illegally, Congress’ Dutt said shops in the areas protected from sealing were also not spared. “The committee has assured that no sealing action would be carried outside the framework of law.” 
 
 On Wednesday, the south corporation sealed six properties in Defence Colony blocks C and D for misuse of stilt parking and two properties in West Punjabi Bagh for misuse of property. The north corporation carried out the drive in two of its six zones — City and Karol Bagh — and sealed 18 properties for misuse of properties and violation of the master plan 2021. 
 
 
