Mumbai: A city   on Wednesday did not grant any injunction against a protest by Tata Institute of Social Sciences ( ) students as long as it was peaceful and did not obstruct the daily activities of the administration and institute. The final order of the court is, however, yet to be made available. 

 The TISS administration had moved court on Wednesday against six protesting students, including  , general secretary of the students' union,  , for allegedly obstructing the institute's official work. 
 
 "The students and their supporters are engaged in various forms of illegal activities and actively instigating students within campus to agitate,'' said the TISS plea filed through advocate,  . 
 
 Wasnik argued that the students had "taken law into their hands'' and blocked the registrar and administration from performing duties recently. 
 
 But the students' lawyer, Bhavana Mhatre of Human Rights Law Network, pointed out that students were holding a peaceful protest and were not violent and not obstructive. The court took their statement on record. She also sought time to file a reply. When asked by the judge, G R Agarwal, why they were protesting, she said the protest was for a charter of pending demands. She added that a meeting scheduled for negotiation with the institute was cancelled by the administration on Wednesday citing pendency of the matter in court. The judge refused to restrain the protesting students as long as they did cause any obstruction. The court left it open for the students and administration to have settlement talks and kept the matter for further hearing on June 19 when the students would file their reply.
 
 Ahmed said the administration should resolve the issue through dialogue. The students said they were peacefully protesting for 36 days and were open to a settlement in their "fight for social justice". 
 
 Among their demands is a plea to continue financial aid for reserved category students and for financial transparency at TISS. At all four TISS campuses (Mumbai, Hyderabad, Tuljapur and Guwahati), students have been protesting against the institute's decision to withdraw financial aid to students from SC, ST, OBC categories (including religious and other minorities) who are eligible for Central government post-matriculation scholarships.
 
 
