NAGPUR: In the first case of its kind, a 40-year-old woman was sentenced to seven years imprisonment and fined Rs2,000 for possessing and using as genuine four fake Rs2,000 currency notes. The judgment was delivered by district and additional sessions court judge GP   on Monday on the basis of the testimony of seven witnesses produced by public prosecutor LB Shendre.

 Pachpaoli police had registered an offence of counterfeit currency notes under Indian Penal Code against accused Padma  , following a complaint by Bhaurao Meshram on July 14, 2017.
 
 Senior PI   told TOI, “Thawre had given Rs2,000 after purchasing utensils worth Rs300 from   at Siddharth Nagar owned by Meshram. The complainant found the note duplicate, so he informed neighbouring shop owners and confirmed his doubt. Meanwhile, Meshram’s servant kept the woman engaged in discussion.”
 
 One of the shop owners summoned the cops. A woman cop found four fake notes having same serial number — 7EW882078 — in a body search of the accused, said Hiware, adding Thawre was immediately arrested and remanded to PCR for three days. She claimed to have stolen the seven notes of Rs2,000 from her paramour’s pants, but then replaced three notes in the pocket. The unknown truck driver had left for   to deliver a consignment but never returned, she said.
 
 Investigation officer PSI PM Mohekar told TOI, “Thawre claimed she had been driven out her house in Jaripatka by her family around 15 years back due to her liquor addiction. She had begged at various places for a few years, and then started staying on the terrace of a temple at Teka Naka. Here, she met a truck driver, whose name she couldn’t recollect. The duo used to enjoy liquor together and later also entered into a physical relationship when he used to visit her once in three months. One night, when he was sleeping, she had stolen the currency from his pocket.”
 
 The cops were not allowed to keep her in further custody due to her ill health. No one from her family came to bail her out.
 
 Zone III DCP Rahul Maknikar said, “Thawre didn’t cooperate during interrogation, hence, the investigation couldn’t go further. She kept changing the truck driver’s name. Cops couldn’t even develop his sketches to trace him. Cops also questioned other truck drivers in the locality but in vain, and the charge sheet was submitted only on the available evidence, leading to her conviction.” 
 
 
