SANTINIKETAN: The chief minister’s office has intimated   authorities that   will be reaching Santiniketan on Thursday evening to attend the convocation on Friday, a day before Prime Minister   and   premier Sheikh Hasina arrive. Bengal governor Keshari Nath Tripathi will also attend the event.

 
 Mamata is the second chief minister after Siddhartha Shankar Ray to be present at the Visva-Bharati convocation on the invitation of the central university. The CM will share the stage with Modi and Hasina, where Modi will deliver the convocation speech as chancellor, officials said. The university will host lunch for the three at the newly constructed Bangladesh Bhavan built with funds from Bangladesh. A delegation from Bangladesh government led by their cultural affairs minister Asaduzzaman Noor reached Visva-Bharati on Wednesday to oversee the arrangements for the Bangladesh Bhavan inauguration programme. Diplomats from countries other than India and Bangladesh have also been invited to the Bangladesh Bhavan programme.
 
 The Bangladesh PM will come with a delegation of 80 members, including foreign minister Abdul Hassan Mahmood Ali and education minister Nurul Hasan Wadia, said Bangladesh deputy high commissioner in Kolkata Toufique Hasan. “Our Prime Minister, along with the Indian PM, will inaugurate the Bangladesh Bhavan in Visva-Bharati in a bid to give a boost to Bangladesh studies. The Bangladesh Bhavan has an auditorium with a seating capacity of 453, along with a seminar hall and a cafeteria. It can be a major cultural hub in Santiniketan,” Hasan said.
 
 A closed-door meeting may take place between Modi and Hasina where the   may broach the issue of sharing water from the Teesta between the two countries. Hasan, however, held that such bilateral issues may not come up between the two premiers at Santiniketan because Modi will be present there as the Visva-Bharati chancellor.
 
 The CM will stay at the state guest house at Ranga Bitan. Visva-Bharati authorities will receive Bannerjee there on Thursday evening. The university has arranged for Modi and Hasina to stay at Uadayan Bari situated within the Uttarayan Complex.
 
 According to Visva-Bharati sources, Udayan Bari has been the place where previous chancellors — from Jawaharlal Nehru to Atalbihari Vajpayee — had been put up.
 
 
