BENGALURU: Grappling with poor infrastructure,   railway station in the city’s tech corridor is in a deplorable state. Large cracks on the walls are posing a threat to passengers at the station, which lacks facilities like drinking water, toilets and proper seating arrangements.

 Every day, more than 5,000 passengers travel in suburban trains along the Salem section (Hebbal-Banaswadi-Hosur) and a majority of them, particularly those working in nearby tech parks like RMZ Ecospace, Prestige Tech Park and RMZ Ecoworld, alight at Bellandur Road railway station.
 
 “This is a village-like station in the city’s IT corridor. There is hardly any staff. Even the ticket counter opens only 10 minutes before the arrival of a train,” said  , a regular passenger.
 
 It is also unsafe for women passengers, particularly at night, because of poor lighting and pathetic condition of approach roads to the station. Commuters have to bear the brunt of the mosquito and stray dog menace too.
 
 Passengers want the Palike to repair approach roads like Panathur and   and start feeder buses connecting the station.
 
 Krishnamurthy, a techie, says there have been several instances of vehicle thefts in the past few months given the lack of security guards. “Some locals also demand money for parking, which is higher than the railway ticket,” he maintains.
 
 
 
 
 The woes of passengers worsen during the rainy season because of inadequate roofing and seating arrangements. Passengers also face difficulty while boarding and alighting from the station due to the low level of the platform. One has to literally jump from the train to land on the platform. “Most suburban services on this line get delayed since it’s a single track between   and Hosur. On most days, trains are made to wait for crossing over intermediate stations,” said  , another passenger.
 
 A South Western Railway (SWR) official said: “Bellandur Road is a halt station. It comes under the low category based on ticket revenue, so it has fewer amenities as compared to other stations. An average of 400 tickets are sold per day, which translates into a daily revenue of Rs 8,000. Facilities will be improved once there is high patronage.”
 
 The 48km doubling project between Byappanahalli and Hosur has been sanctioned at Rs 376 crore in the Union budget, which would help SWR operate additional services and reduce delay, said the officials.
 
