JAIPUR: Giving boost to diagnostic facilities, a virus research and diagnostic lab (VDRL) was inaugurated at Jaipur’s   (SMS) medical college, on Monday. The   will deal with the variety of viruses of public health importance.

 Health minister Kalicharan   inaugurated the VDRL at SMS medical college, which will help in timely identification of viruses and other agents causing morbidity significant at public health level and specifically agents causing epidemics.
 
 Over the past few years, the state has witnessed spread of diseases related to different virus including swine flu. In such a situation with outbreaks of viral agents, timely diagnosis becomes important. The VDRL has been set up at SMS medical college to deal with shortage of specialized virology laboratories with the help of Centre’s Department of Health Research (DHR), which is an administrative arm of   (ICMR).
 
 By using syndromic approach, the VDRL laboratory will conduct diagnostic test and research of encephalitis, respiratory infections, gastroenteritis, hemorrhagic fever and hepatitis viruses. Also, it will conduct outbreak investigation of different diseases.
 
 The DHR has provided initial support for infrastructure development and running of the VRDL for a period of five years and also invested Rs five crore for the same. After that the state government will be required to take over the facility including its trained manpower and keep it functional at their end. The setting up of VRDL is part of the Centre’s plans of strengthening diagnostic facilities across the country. Such laboratories have been set up in different medical colleges of the country.
 
 Now, as VDRL has been set up, the samples of viruses will be tested in Jaipur, which earlier had to be sent to the   (NIV) for more detailed testing just like in the case of swine flu swab samples.
 
 Besides, Saraf also inaugurated a bio-safety level-three laboratory at the SMS medical college. Saraf said that they have procured equipment of Rs one crore in the first phase and in the second phase, they will spend Rs two core for purchasing other equipment used for diagnosis and research. Saraf also inaugurated an academic block at the SMS medical college.
 
 
