  : Catching attention from all the corners of the city for its new venture of late night shopping, New market is missing out on something very important and basic - the encroachment. The midnight bazaar was said to have begun as a move towards women empowerment, the authorities have been active to make the market safe for women till late in the night but what's the point when women are unable to shop during the day? 

  "We can barely walk through the corridors. Encroachments are rampant and even foraying till the middle of the road. It's not just inconvenient but very risky," said Shalini, a college student. She also brought up another issue, she had parked her two-wheeler in the designated womens' only ' ' as she could not find space near the entrance of the market. The women-dedicated parking is either encroached and or males on two-wheelers take over it. 
 
 Even the much-hyped Smart Parking was supposed to change the shopping experience in the market but we don't see any. "We are working on enforcing parking norms. Our staff has to be trained and sensitised," said a   official responsible for parking wing.
 
 Another commuter   said, "Without a uniform, women cannot identify whether the person at parking lot is an appointed parking ticket collector or just a con. We avoid going to the market after sunset because a lot of shops have encroached almost half of the walkway. there are item hangings all around, which can even cause injury. The BMC needs to check encroachments rather than play music in 'She Carnival." A new development at the market will be a police check post. It promises to deter illegal hawkers and others who put up shops or stalls in the area illegally.
 
 The court had taken extreme steps and penalised the offenders as recent as last month. But the encroachments didn't delay their return. Ironically, the New Market association's senior representative who promoted the idea of keeping the market open till 2 am has not yet cleared the encroachments that's outside his own shop. 
 
 
