PUNE: A Moshi-based businessman, who handed over his Mercedes Benz, worth Rs 6 lakh, to a man posing as an   agent to renew its registration, was in for a rude shock when the man disappeared with the high-end car. It is suspected that the man was involved in similar cases earlier in Pimpri Chinchwad.

  
  
 
 The MIDC Bhosari police said the so-called agent could be the same person who promised people to get their RTO works, like registration or transfer of vehicle ownership, done quickly and then disappeared with the vehicles. The Nigdi and Chinchwad police stations have registered similar complaints in the past.
 
 Sub-inspector Raosaheb Bamble told TOI that the police have sought details of the cases registered at the Chinchwad and Nigdi police stations to check whether he is the same person. 
 
 The 40-year-old businessman in his complaint to the police on Friday stated that the suspect had taken the car after winning his confidence in October 2017. As the car was 15 years old, its registration was due for renewal from the Pimpri Chinchwad RTO. 
 
 According to the complaint, the businessman gave the suspect money to pay for the green tax and also handed over all the original documents to him. The suspect had befriended the businessman a couple of months ago. Bamble said the businessman hired the services of the man as he wanted to get the things urgently. After waiting for months, the suspect told him that the RTO officials had asked him to wait and had given him an appointment.
 
 Despite repeated calls later, the suspect did not return the car to him and did not even get it registered with the RTO. The man took the original papers, green tax money and disappeared with the car. Bamle said, “The businessman approached the police after the suspect, who had promised to return the car, stopped answering his calls.” The police are suspecting that the man may already have sold the car.
 
 Similar incidents had taken place in the jurisdiction of the Nigdi and Chinchwad police stations where a suspect had cheated about eight people by promising them to register their cars with the Pimpri Chinchwad RTO in January and February this year. Out of the eight cars, six were brand new and their owners wanted to have fancy numbers for their cars or were in a hurry to get the their cars registered with the RTO. The police officers from these police stations too are searching the suspect.
 
 Bamble said a case of criminal breach of trust has been registered in this regard.
 
 
