CHANDIGARH: Chief minister   has ruled out reversal of government decision to close down the Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant (GNDTP),  , pointing to non-feasibility of its continued operations.

 Reiterating that no employee would lose his job because of the closure and all workers would be accommodated,   said that after closing down plant operations completely the surplus manpower of the Bathinda plant will be utilised at other workplaces, where there is shortage of staff. This will increase productivity as it will stop increase of power generation cost over the year, besides resulting in savings to the PSPCL, since power from GNDTP, Bathinda, was being generated at a very high cost as compared to the overall cost of electricity in PSPCL, making GNDTP units non-viable.
 
 Amarinder claimed that the decision had to be taken mainly due to lack of power demand in the state and availability of cheaper power from other alternate sources. “No retrenchment of the staff (regular/contract basis) shall be done and all of them shall be adjusted suitably in the nearby locations, with full pay protection,” he maintained. 
 
 Giving details of the power situation in the state, he pointed out that power demand in   varies widely during paddy and non-paddy season. This year, the maximum demand had been recorded at 11,600MW in summer and 5,600MW in winter. Further, in winter, there is a lot of variation in the day and night time demand, with the latter coming down to around 3,000 MW. Though the state has become power surplus, generation capacity is utilised fully only in paddy period of four months and for the remaining eight months the same remains underutilised.
 
 Over the last seven years from 2009-10 to 2016-17, installed capacity of Punjab from own generation, long-term share in central sector projects has doubled from 6,900MW to 14,000MW, whereas annual sale of power in the state increased merely 39% from 32,000MUs to 44,400MUs. During the same period, domestic and commercial sale increased by 86%, industry just by 27% and AP supply by 16%.
 
 “Because of old technology, the heat rate, i.e. coal consumption in terms of Kcal/KWh of the GNDTP worked out higher than other thermal stations. During 2016-17, heat rate of GNDTP worked out to at 3,102 Kcal per unit for generation,” said Amarinder in a statement. “The plant is of old design and requires more manpower for operation as compared to new power plants, which are fully computerized. At present, new plants are being installed with higher capacity units like 660MW and 800MW,” he said.
 
 With focus on green energy, he said the PSPCL had recently signed a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) with the government of India for purchase of wind power at Rs.2.75/unit for 150MW and PPA for another 200MW was in the pipeline.
 
 
