While having a cup of coffee along with a friend at a coffee shop in Kochi, Sunitha G’s friend told her, “You should practise meditation.” Overhearing the conversation, the restaurant’s waiter said, “Ma’am, you should go for Vipasana. I practise it every day.” After him giving her a half hour lecture, Sunitha who had trouble dealing with her inner demons, decided to take a chance. “If he can, why can’t I?” she thought.

 A bit of browsing helped her locate a centre for Vipasana meditation at the outskirts of Chengannur, and taking a leave of absence for 10 days from work, she went to the centre. Contrary to her expectation, the meditation centre had more youngsters than elders. There were youth ranging from the age of 18 to 35 from different castes, religions and nationalities. There were party animals, hitch-hikers, journalists, IT professionals, social workers and bankers. All 60 of them had paused their life for the next 10 days, shutting themselves off from all kinds of communication and embraced silence.
 
 They had mediation sessions from 4:30 am to 10pm where everyone sat in a room observing their breath. After the course, they came out with brighter smiles and blissful thoughts. After returning, Sunitha said, “I never thought, I would be able to maintain silence for even a minute and here I am sitting at peace for more than two hours without any distraction.”
 
 It is not that Sunitha has no stress now in her professional or personal life, but she says that the 10-day course taught her to fight her inner and outer demons. “It has made my life simpler,” she adds.
 
 Like Sunitha, many youngsters in Kerala find meditation a magic pill these days and have been searching for different modes to practise it. While some opt for Art of Living, a few pick Zen meditation. There are many centres opening across the State as well that teach the youth the techniques of mastering meditation.
 
 For Anna Pappachan, a post graduate student from Sacred Hearts College, the practice helped her cope with the sudden demise of her father. “I was very attached to my daddy. I was depressed ever since he was diagnosed with cancer and he underwent treatment for four months. His sudden illness and passing left me dejected,” she says. “I stopped talking to people, skipped classes and used to just lay on bed. It affected my academic performance. One day, I woke up and felt I cannot live like this forever.”
 
 Anna decided she needs to feel relaxed and return to her normal self, and harked back to her teachers’ advice — to inhale and exhale deeply before getting out of bed and sleeping. “It helps me warm up and also gives me  ,” she says. Apart from handling the pain of loss, Anna says that practising meditation has helped boost her confidence, tame the monkey mind, develop clarity and improve her decision making skills.
 
 Stress isn’t the only reason because of which youth are attracted to meditation. Those like social worker Sifa Thangal took it up after contradictory questions constantly popped up in her mind and prompted her to start thinking beyond her religious practices.
 
 “We have been conditioned by our religious systems and at one point it is natural to think about questioning it,” she says. “I think, our generation, instead of being in that confused state takes the initiative to tackle it and that is how we are more driven to meditation. I happened to read Robin Sharma’s The Monk Who Sold His Ferrari and realised that meditation which I had otherwise thought as something exclusively for saints, can be practised by common people like me."
 
 She explains that the success stories she came across over social media too had people giving credit to meditation. “It has hugely helped me find myself and strike a balance in my life. It’s not that I don’t feel sad after following meditation but I am now able to equally handle both happiness and unhappiness. Also, I have stopped being impulsive, instead I pause for a moment before I react,” she says. 
 
 Apart from mental well-being, some find meditation as a great workout. Radhika Ganesh, BCom student at Chinmaya College, Kochi, divulges that meditation helps her relieve the pain of hard core workouts. “I am undergoing rigorous workout sessions throughout the week, so my body needs meditation to energise itself and control the pain. When I meditate, I feel my body is cleansed and feel healthier physically. I stay active throughout the day,” says Radhika, who meditates thrice a week.
 
 Meditation also gives youngsters space to explore their inner lives and thereby handle the day-to-day stress, says Vishnu Balachandran, faculty at Amrita University. “The word ‘boredom’ was never in the dictionary of our elders. But now even when the youth have many activities such as playing video games and watching YouTube, they still feel bored and distracted. Today’s generation live in fear of being isolated and if they can transform the fear of loneliness into the bliss of solitude, they can handle life better. Those who have realised this have started embarking on a quest to find the meaning of oneself. Once they find out the bliss that they can attain by practising meditation, they will not let that go. Meditation is also a healer. So, it is necessary to introduce it to children,” says Vishnu, who says he has been practising it since his childhood.
 
  Anna too urges youngsters to make meditation a regular habit. “Sit calmly and observe your breath for as little as 10-15 minutes a day. It will refresh you and lead you to a state of tranquillity in life. When more and more people start treading the path, the world will become a better place,” she sums up.
 
 
