VADODARA/ ANAND: Stranded without a charger or electricity? Don’t panic. You could still charge your mobile phone, that too using the dress you are wearing! Why just mobile phones, you could power up laptops with the bags while on a trip.

 
 Researchers at Vallabh Vidyanagar-based   (SPU) have developed solar cells using organic dyes (color) which are not only much less expensive than the traditionally used silicon-based panels but are also flexible. In fact, unlike the silicon panels that are widely available in the market but can be used only as roof-top installation on terraces, the indigenously developed solar cells developed by the SPU team can be fixed on the exterior walls of buildings, windows, doors and even clothes. 
 
 “This dye-sensitized solar cells that we have developed are so flexible that Army jawans can put them on their uniforms and charge cell phones where electricity is not available,” said professor Saurabh Soni, who led the group from SPU’s  . 
 
 “Also, unlike silicon-based panels, these solar cells work efficiently even in dim sunlight, they are low-cost, easy to manufacture and have less payback time,” he said. The dye-sensitized solar cells work on the pr-inciple similar to that of photosynthesis in plants where chlorophyll harvests sunlight and produces energy. The research has received patent from the Indian patent office. 
 
 “Here, organic dyes are light harvester and convert sunlight into electrical energy,” he said, adding that all the components used in this indigenous cells are easily available in the Indian market. 
 
 As compared to the silicon panels, which are expensive due to imported silica and other raw materials, these newly developed panels cost much less. For instance, a 5 X 5 cm silicon solar panel costs Rs 490 while the dye-sensitized one costs Rs 120. The researchers have so far received an efficiency of 10% using the newly developed panels during laboratory tests and are hopeful that it will reach 14% in future. “The efficiency of silicon-based solar cells is 20 to 25 % but when one considers the payback time, cost, flexibility of this cells and the fact that they work even when dim sunlight, these solar cells certainly provides better results,” he said. 
 
 SPU vice-chancellor professor  , said, “We have held preliminary talks with the Gujarat government regarding the successful outcome of this research.   is giving a major push for solar energy use. We have talked with two industrialists from Charotar who have expressed interest on developing commercial use of this cells.”
 
