Even before the multi-starrer film   has hit the theatres, the star cast of the movie believed that the viewers will surely come out to watch the film. The star cast of the upcoming film, Kareena Kapoor,  ,   and Shikha Talsania also expressed happiness over the positive response enthralled by the trailer and songs of the much-awaited movie.

  
  
  The movie which marks Sonam Kapoor's first film after her marriage with a long time boyfriend   holds a special place in her heart because it has been produced by her sister, Rhea Kapoor. During an interview, the 'Sawariyaa' actress said, "Every film I get is important to me but 'Veere Di Wedding' is more important to me because it is my sister  's film. Even my friends are a part of this film. This film has a lot of flavours, it has drama, comedy, romance excitement. I hope it goes really well and I hope the audience enjoys the film."
 
  'Jab We Met' actress  , who is making a comeback in 'Veerey Di Wedding' after her pregnancy break said, "I am really excited about the film. The trailer has received a good response. While shooting for 'Veere Di Wedding' it did not feel like work because we were only talking about food and having fun. We had a fun time shooting in Delhi. There is a comedy, romance, friendship, everything."
 
  Meanwhile, actress, Swara Bhaskar who is usually known for playing non-glamorous, content-based films such as, 'Nil Battey Sannata', 'Anaarkali of Aarah', will be seen in a completely different avatar in the film. She herself believes that an artist should take up challenges and do roles they are scared of.
 
  "For me 'Veere Di Wedding' was a very different experience. Till now I haven't done such roles. I am an urban, westernized, glamorous character who shops only in London. I particularly called Rhea and said I want to take up that role. My characters have always been down-to-earth. I wanted to see, that in a film that has a glamorous cast like, Sonam Kapoor Ahuja and Kareena Kapoor Khan if I can supersede them in terms of glamour. I think an artist should take up challenges and do roles they are scared of," she said.
 
  Another actress of the movie Shikha Talsania who has earlier worked with Kareena Kapoor Khan's cousin,   in 'Wake Up Sid' said, "I was really waiting to start working with Kareena. I am her big fan and I was excited to start shooting with Kareena Kapoor Khan. I was never nervous, I was only feeling the excitement. I couldn't wait for work, shooting to begin."
 
  The chick flick is directed by   and produced by Balaji Motion Pictures, Anil Kapoor Films & Communication Network and Saffron Broadcast & Media Ltd is slated to release on June 1. The trailer of 'Veere Di Wedding' holds true to its tagline and is a high-spirited, coming of age story revolving around the lives of four childhood friends Kalindi (Kareena Kapoor Khan), Avni (Sonam Kapoor), Meera (Shikha Talsania) and Sakshi ( ).
 
  The tale takes a turn when Kareena is about to get hitched with  . Filled with swear words, slapstick moments and some hilarious one-liners, 'Veere Di Wedding' is a complete joy ride.
  
  
 
