HYDERABAD: Who invented vaccine for malaria? Who is ‘Lord Chamberlain’? Who was the `lost' king of Golconda? If you are preparing for a competitive examination or quiz championship, please for God's sake, do not refer to the official website of  .

 
  
  
 The state archaeology department, which is tasked with protecting the grand old monuments under its control, does not seem to bother to even provide accurate information on the heritage and historical sites it is supposed to conserve and protect. A perusal of the `information’ on monuments, particularly in Hyderabad district, reveals several factual errors.
 
 It credits British medical officer Sir Ronald Ross, who worked in the princely state of Hyderabad at the turn of the 20th century, with “discovering” vaccine for malaria. The bungalow where Ross resided is a protected structure under state archaeology. The fact is Ross did not develop vaccine for malaria. He discovered how malarial parasite is transmitted to human beings – through mosquitoes infected with the parasite, Plasmodium. Malaria vaccine is still a dream and the   (WHO) is yet to recommend a vaccine developed a few years ago, for mass immunisation.
 
 Ironically, the archaeology department believes that `Lord Chamberlain’ is some historical person associated with Hyderabad during the Qutub Shahi period. Lord   is a post in a royal palace, but the department has personified it. Description on Toli Masjid says it was built… by Musa Khan… (who) held the “office of Mohalladar for Lord Chamberlain”. Archaeology officials did not bother to know that Mohalladar is   for Lord Chamberlain, the seniormost official position in a royal palace.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 The note on Badashahi Ashoorkhana describes Hazrat Imam Ali as the “grandson of Prophet Mohammad”, while Imam Ali is the son-in-law and cousin of the Prophet. The name of the Imam is also misspelt in a derogatory way.
 
 The Dabirpura gate was constructed by the Asaf Jahi rulers. The archaeology department wrongly gives credit to the Qutub Shahis. “Dabirpura gate was built between 1724 and 1740 AD during the Qutb Shahi period”, the official description reads; the   lost power in 1687.
 
 Referring to Dargah Hakim Nizamuddin Jeelani Quadri, the website describes the Hakim as a “physician of the lost King of Golkonda”. Also, Mohammad Qutub Shah VI is described as the “fifth ruler” of the Qutub Shahi dynasty, while he is the sixth ruler There is no information on archaeological sites, on the cairns at Mir Alam Tank, megalithic burials in Begumpet and the Puranapul ancient gate.
 
 
