NOIDA: Two sectors in Noida have seen a significant rise in cases of murder, abduction and vehicle theft in the past one year, indicates the data released by  .

 The crime figures of sectors 39 and 49 appear to question the policing in the areas at a time the overall   across the city has seen a dip. Several residents of the two sectors this correspondent spoke to said the police needed to intensify vigil.
 
 According to the annual data, the   police station has registered 13 cases of murder last year as against nine in 2016. 
 
 There has also be an increase in the number of loots, from 29 to 31 in a year. The total number of FIRs registered in the police station stood at 1,041 in 2017, up from 951 the year before. 
 
 It was in Sector 39 that businessman Rajesh Jolly (45) had gone on a shooting and stabbing spree in April last year, armed with two guns, cartridges, a khukri (knife), surgical blade and an iron rod. 
 
 Jolly killed his business partner’s wife Anju Khurana and their son Ankush before confining himself to a room and inflicting injuries upon himself. He later succumbed to the injuries at a private hospital, following which the police closed the case.
 
 Similarly,   has also recorded an increase in the number of murder cases in the past one year. In 2017, the police had registered seven murder cases in the area as against two in the previous year. The number of vehicle thefts also rose from 252 to 358, though there was a decrease in other criminal cases. The total number of FIRs registered also saw a spurt from 715 in 2016 to 935 a year on. 
 
 Mohit Goel, the managing director of Ringing Bells, a company that had announced smartphones for Rs 251 and was later at the centre of several controversies, had in December last year lodged a complaint at Sector 49 police station accusing two mobile phone manufacturers of siphoning off Rs 3.27 crore. 
 
 The accused Vikas Sharma and Jitndra Harwani were later arrested.
 
 Talking about the spurt in crime rates in the two sectors, Arun Kumar Singh, SP (city) Noida, said overall policing had improved in the city and the two sectors were exceptions. 
 
 “In a few police stations, some crimes have increased slightly. We have directed officers in these areas to work against organised gangs and break the nexus. We are also keeping tabs on people with criminal background.”
 
 
