RAJKOT: Family members of three Kutch sailors — Umar Salemamad Thaim, Ibrahim Razak Sap and Sajid Umar Sumra — who are languishing in a jail in   since August 2014, have sought help from the Indian government for waiver off Rs 2.30 crore fine imposed on them for trespassing into the Iranian waters. The trio has to face sentence of 10 years if they are unable to pay the fine.

 The families on Saturday got a an email reply from the Indian embassy stating: “Matter for waiving off their fine and early release is being taken up with concerned authorities. This embassy is pursuing this case on regular basis and their case has been also raised at ministerial level.” 
 
 Umar’s wife Nurjahan on Thursday wrote a letter on behalf of family members of all three sailors seeking help of the Indian government at a time when Iran president Hussan Rouhani is visiting the country.
 
 The family members of the sailors in Mandvi, Kutch, recently came to know that the Iranian court had imposed fine of Rs 2.30 crore on the trio. In the letter, Nurjahan has said that the family members are not in a position to pay the huge amount of fine and sought help of the Indian ambassador in Iran for their release.
 
 The families are hoping for release of their love ones. Talking to TOI, Umar’s brother   said, “Iran releases some of prisoners every year on humanitarian ground. We want our government to intervene and get our family members released on humanitarian ground as we are unable to pay this much amount. Also, if we don’t pay, they will have to remain in jail for the next 10 years.” All three sailors are lodged in a jail at Minab port near Buandar Abbas. 
 
 According to case details, the sailors were on the ship which left Dubai to go to Yemen. Because of bad weather the ship lost direction and entered into Iranian territory unintentionally. There were 12 crew members on board out of that nine were released and three members were charged under the Iranian law. They have been charged for illegal entry in Iranian sea and illegal trading in Iranian territory. Umar was the captain of the ship.
 
 Umar has a wife and two daughters, while Ibrahim was married only a month before his arrest. Sajid too was engaged to be married just before he got arrested. “Now, the girl’s family want to break the engagement as they cannot wait any longer for Sajid,” Mushtak said.
 
 
