LUCKNOW: Choked drains may leave the city in a mess this monsoon.

 
 Despite Mayor Sanyukta Bhatia’s directive to   health and rubbish removal department to clean all drains by May 31, the corporation staff is carrying out the work at a slow pace and in disorganised way.
 
 
  
 
 Some drains have been partially cleaned, while in some the removed silt has been dumped on the roadsides. The removed slit should, ideally, be disposed of within 2-3 days of drying. If unremoved, it may slip back into the drains.
 
 The cleaning of drains should have begun in March, but it began last week. About 80% colonies have drains choked with garbage and polythene. Those which are being cleaned are also not free from sludge and waste.
 
 Mamta Choudhary, corporator of Malaviya Nagar ward, said, “The Lucknow Municipal Corporation staff after removing silt from drains dumps it on the roadside. I have to keep a daily track to ensure that the silt is disposed of, else it would remain on the road. The silt should be left only for 2-3 days for drying so that LMC vehicles can conveniently carry it for disposal. But in reality, the slit is left for 15-20 days after which it flows back into the drains, making all the efforts futile.”
 
 In a reality check on Monday, TOI found heaps of slit along the drains in Narhi, Khurramnagar, Vikasnagar, Lakshman Ganj (Haiderganj), in front of Rumi Gate, Vivek Khand ( ),   in Aliganj, Ismailganj ward etc.
 
 The mayor had also instructed corporators to join the social media group created for updates on status of drains cleaning, but so far no corporator has joined it.
 
 Arvind Mishra, a resident of Khurramnagar, said LMC staff has dumped the slit on the road in front of his apartment and that has made commuting difficult. He said, “The silt has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes and the entire colony is stinking because of it.”
 
 Even the monuments and tourist places of Lucknow are not free from the mess. One can see similar mess outside Rumi Gate.
 
 Rekha Saxena, a resident of  , said, “Every year, LMC cleans drains but leaves the silt on sides for 15-20 days. These should be removed on priority but lie on the roads for several days. Besides, stray animals make it more messy by littering the slit on the roads.”
 
 
 
  
 
 
