Vadodara: The Halls of Residence of M S University is in the news again for all the wrong reasons.

 Even as the controversy over racial discrimination allegations by Manipur students against those from Rajasthan hasn’t subsided, the main campus of boys’ hostel on Wednesday witnessed another round of violence that left two students injured. 
 
 Students from Bihar and ‘Pathan’ group came to blows at the Nusservanji Vakil Hall forcing the cops and university’s vigilance staff to rush to the spot. 
 
 Four accused including three students of the university were later arrested by the cops in connection to the violence. Sources said that that the clash was a fall-out of an old rivalry between students from both the groups.
 
 Parth Jwala (Ojas), who stays at N V Hall, in his complaint at Sayajigunj police station alleged that four members from the Pathan gang along with a mob of 15-20 persons forcibly entered his room with baseball and hockey sticks and thrashed him and his roommate Avinash. He claimed that on Tuesday members of the Pathan group were creating cacophony when he was reading at the memorial library. After the librarian pulled up Jwala, he informed him that it was the Pathan group which was making the noise. 
 
 After the librarian reprimanded Pathan group, there were some arguments between Jwala and them near D N Hall. Jwala told police that it was because of this dispute that the members of the Pathan group thrashed him and his roommate.
 
 Police registered the complaint of rioting and assault against four accused including Mohammed Yasin Pathan, Altaf Hussain Pathan, Nadim Pathan and Noor Pathan – all of whom were later arrested. While Yasin, Altaf and Nadim are students of the university, Noor is an outsider. 
 
 Noor on his part has also registered a cross complaint alleging that three students identified as Jayprakash, Diwakar and Rajneesh – all staying inside the T K Gajjar Hall beat him up near the D N Hall ground after which he was shifted to SSG Hospital for treatment. 
 
 Police said that although the complaint has been filed on the grounds that the dispute started over noise inside the library, the arguments actually began after some members of one group were allegedly starring at a girl inside the library on Tuesday. 
 
 After the clash, cops seized two four-wheelers in which the accused had entered the hostel premises while the hostel authorities tightened security at the campus by strictly checking identity cards of all those entering.
 
 
