AURANGABAD: Despite containing several positive provisions, the   act, 2017 is difficult to implement, said the medical professionals who were attending a medical education meet held on Sunday.

 The   had organised the event to update the psychiatrists regarding new law and other medico-legal issues regarding psychiatry practice. More than a 100 psychiatrists from across the country participated in the event.
 
 “The Mental Healthcare Bill, which was passed in both houses of the parliament last year, is a right-based law,” said  , former deputy director, Maharashtra government.
 
 The medicos stated that the act has several positive provisions but the limitations at the ground level will make it hard for the implementation of the act. 
 
 Before the bill was passed, anyone who attempted suicide was booked, faced charges and prosecution for which the maximum penalty was one year jail term. Now, an attempted suicide will be presumed, unless proven otherwise, to have been done under severe stress and thereby not liable to be prosecution. In such cases, psychological help should be provided. 
 
 “The act recognises the rights and dignity of mentally-ill patients. It professes their access to the mental healthcare and treatment from state-run or state-funded facilities. It assures free treatment to those who are homeless or fall below poverty line. In addition, a person with mental illness will also have the right to confidentiality with respect to his mental health,” said consultant psychiatrist  .
 
 She added, “The mental healthcare to all mentally-ill patients is a great idea but lacks facilities. There is not a single state-run mental health facility in the eight districts of Marathwada. Consequently, the patients are sent to Pune-based Yerwada Mental Hospital.” Then how will the patients get access to the care promised in the act,   asked. 
 
 Kumawat said that there is a huge shortage of psychiatrists in the country and the focus should be on bridging this void if the act has to be followed in its word and spirit.
 
 The medicos in the meeting also objected to certain provisions of the act. “The act says that a six-member mental health review board formed by the state will take decisions on what treatments to offer at government facilities. In addition giving all patients the right to choose forms of treatment could hamper the process of treatment,” Deshpande said.
 
 
