BHOPAL: Taking a note of the growing impact of social media on voters, the BJP in   has embraced innovative digital marketing strategies ahead of the forthcoming assembly elections. The state election management committee, which is likely to hold its meeting on May 23, has decided to rope in teams of experts to make office bearers aware of extensive use of ‘new age’ media.

 
 “Elections in Madhya Pradesh will have a decisive impact of social media and the party will fight this battle tapping the digital media to the best of its potential. We have asked all party workers to show their strong presence on major social media networks to reach the voters and achieve the target of 200 plus seats,” said BJP state organising general secretary,  , while addressing a division-level meeting last Saturday. Accordingly, the state BJP has equipped all 56 organisational district offices with internet and Wi-Fi facilities, while the technology has also been provided in mandals and blocks.
 
  
 “This is the latest strategy to maximise our party’s reach. We have decided to form WhatsApp groups in all 65,000 polling booths. Booth-level workers have been asked to connect to the local voters, may be 400 to 500 in number, through various groups to inform, enlighten and encourage them on ideological matters,” BJP state IT Cell in-charge   told TOI.
 
 Last week, during live chat and telephone conversation with the MPs and MLAs of Madhya Pradesh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had advised them to increase the number of followers on Facebook and Twitter. It was also stated that the representatives must interact with the public on ideology, policies and problems.
 
 A state election management committee, headed by Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar, will also discuss the party’s social media plan in the presence of national general secretary  , who will meet state office-bearers, ministers and MLAs to discuss major issues to be raised during the poll campaign, which is likely to be intensified by June.
 
 As per the records of state IT cell, state BJP has 2.75 lakh followers on Twitter and 2.5 lakh on Facebook. The party boasts of a well-knitted network of twitter handles that adds to the reach and timeline deliveries. But most of the ministers are yet to improve their presence on social media.
 
 CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s official twitter handle has 47.19 lakh followers. But no other leader from the state commands the kind of following Union external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj, who is Lok Sabha member from Vidisha, has on Twitter. Over 1.17 crore follow Swaraj on her official twitter handle. As comparing to the BJP, Congress will have to improve its presence on the social media. Party’s newly-nominated state president   has 74,400 followers against his own party leader Digvijaya Singh, who has 8.22 lakh followers on twitter. But, the party’s poll campaign coordinator Jyotiraditya Scindia emerges at the top with 11.2 lakh followers on twitter.
 
