Hyderabad, the city Traffic   was serious when the ‘Penalty points for Traffic Violations’ was introduced in August last year. In fact, in just five months, they have already found the first repeat-offender — R  , a resident of Barkatpura —whose licence will now get suspended for a year under the new system. with 14 points against his name, all for not wearing helmet, and one for talking on phone while riding without a helmet, the said individual was a repeat offender who was on the traffic cops’ radar for a while now. He was first caught on august 18, and caught every month since then. The Medchal   have sent a show cause notice to the violator. The licence once suspended, cannot be renewed for a year and if one is found driving without a licence, it can lead to imprisonment.

 The   say this first suspension should set an example and send out the message that the point system is indeed serious! “This particular case is proof that we have to keep innovating in terms of penalties. Offenders are ready to shell out money each time they get caught. They choose to shell out thousands of rupees on penalty for not wearing helmets, instead of just buying one. So we formulated this method, where you just end up losing your licence for a year,” says AV Ranganath, DCP Traffic, who is hopeful that this may act as a psychological deterrent and discourage traffic violations.
 
 But it’s not like this new point-based system doesn’t give you chance for redemption. There is a way to reduce your points and start afresh, provided you are ready to undergo counselling. “The individual who has violated traffic rules has to feel responsible for his own safety. so, if one hits 6 points, there is a chance to educate oneself and attend the ‘defensive driver training’. Attending one such session can help reduce 3 points,” says Srinivas Puppalla, District Transport Officer of Medchal, Road Transport Authority. with two counselling sessions in two years, one can reduce the points by 6 and start afresh, inform officials. 
 
 
 
 A look at the roads, and it’s obvious that a majority of Hyderabadis still do not wear helmets. A recent research published in Journal of Public Health also notes that only 34 per cent of city’s population admits to wearing helmets. But in reality, that number might be even lower. 
 Data shared by the traffic cops reveal that a whopping 3 lakh commuters have already been fined under the point system. However, the bulk violators, 2 lakh of them, range at 1 point, which would usually be for not wearing helmets. But the cause of worry is for those lingering at 8, 9, 10 points — which are 16, 3 and 1 in number. They are just a point or two away from their licence being suspended!
 
 
 
 So how do you know if you are on the borderline? Well, if your phone number is registered with the RTA, then you would get an SMS update on the same regularly, informs Srinivas, who is also a road safety campaigner. Meanwhile citizens says this jolt will be a good eye opener for the public. “The penalty point system gives us enough time to comply with traffic safety rules. But I think the quantum of punishment should be reduced, because one year is a little too long. There should also be special counselling sessions for offenders who repeatedly commit the same mistake,” says Mythreya Sharma, a motorist.
 
 
