GURUGRAM: An inquiry report into the scam, involving sale of HSIIDC   by private parties in connivance with officials, was submitted to the deputy commissioner by the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM). It recommends action against the government employees and land sellers involved.

 TOI had reported on Tuesday that the inquiry had been ordered into 25 entries, registered since May 14, two days after the the Supreme Court delivered its judgement in an earlier   in Manesar. In fact, the latest scam involves private individuals selling off a portion of the 400 acre land involved in the earlier scam, via nine different registries made at the   tehsil office. The SC had vested the ownership of the entire land with HSIIDC. 
 
 While senior officials said they can’t yet reveal details of the report, sources said the SDM has recommended action against the officials being probed under Rule 7 of   — seven tehsil officials, including a tehsildar, a naib tehsildar, three clerks and a patwari. “The report confirms nine registries of sale of   land, involving private parties and the tehsil office,” said the source. The report has also recommended filing of an FIR against the land sellers.
 
 Deputy commissioner   said, “I’ve received the report but haven’t yet had chance to look at it. I’ll be able to comment on the matter only after I’ve analysed it.” 
 
 Interestingly, from 25 on Tuesday, the number of registries with irregularities is now being reported as nine. While some of the deals include change of land ownership within a family, others involve third party transactions. The quantum of land involved in the scam is also yet to be assessed. “Land area would differ from one registry to another. In some cases, it’s around 400 sq yd, in others, it’s 300 sq yd,” said the source.
 
 According to sources, the 16 registries that were struck off from the list of suspicious entries, involve registrations of flats in a private society that falls within the 400 acre area at the centre of the previous Manesar land scam. The Supreme Court had, in its March 12 verdict, made a special provision, allowing this project to be registered, a source said.
 
 
