MUMBAI: Bhuleshwar residents, who have been spearheading a fight against gold polishing and smelting units in the locality over the last 16 years, know the rules are on their side, but they are not sure if the government is. And this despite chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s directive to shift out these polluting establishments from the heart of the city. 

 “Despite meeting Fadnavis and explaining to him all our concerns, there is only a 10% chance that any permanent action will be initiated,” said  , a member of the  . There is reason for Garodia’s cynicism. Besides Fadnavis, former CMs Prithviraj Chavan, Vilasrao Deshmukh and   too had said that these units would be relocated, but not a single one has been shuttered so far. Instead, more have sprung up in this increasingly commercial neighbourhood of south Mumbai, say residents. “This area is a ticking time bomb, only some sparks and it will all explode,” said Goradia to Fadnavis during their meeting. 
 
 He showed the CM a picture taken from a building terrace where multiple chimneys can be seen billowing black smoke. “Fadnavis was shocked. He asked BMC to start demolishing the chimneys and then begin the process of shifting them out,” said Garodia. The residents’ main contention is that theirs is a residential area and such a polluting industry cannot be allowed to operate in such close proximity to residential dwellings, though apart from jewellers, Bhuleshwar is now also home to a host of wholesale and retail businesses. 
 
 The fight against the manufacturing units started in 2001 after a cylinder blast in one such unit in Fofalwadi claimed 24 lives. Residents also began experiencing a sharp rise in health concerns like breathing trouble, asthma and bronchial ailments. A team from KEM Hospital had undertaken a survey in 2005 which concluded that 55% of residents living near the units, many of which are located in multi-storeyed buildings, suffered from asthma, bronchitis and restrictive lung disease, said Devendra Shah, part of the group seeking action. “There are more than 30,000 units, most of them illegal. They have LPG cylinders stored and they use acid and chemicals like sulphur and nitrogen for their work,” said Vijay Shah, president of the residents association. The establishments he’s targeting are not organised under one banner. When TOI visited some of them, their owners said they have requi-site licences and would make arepresentation to the state if told to shift. “We are following all the norms. We do not use acid. We are a large industry, giving employment to lakhs and this area is convenient as the gold market is next door. Shifting us will kill the business,” said one of the owners, who did not reveal his name. Shah said the units used unskilled and underpaid workers who were herded together in cramped spaces. 
 
 “Tentwelve people work mostly in 150-200 sqft space. They are illiterate workers who do not how to handle chemicals. They are playing with their lives as well as of others,” said Shah, who added that in the event of a fire, narrow lanes and the ill-maintained state of the buildings would add to casualties. Devendra Shah was also among those who brought the issue to Fadnavis’s attention, following which the CM ordered demolition of their chimneys and sought a report from BMC. “After that, 22 chimneys were demolished. But the BMC demolishes a small pipe of the chimney, which the unit owner puts back later,” said Shah. Senior officials said most units are violating multiple rules. 
 
 Some are violating BMC’s licence conditions as they may have been given a licence for some other activity. Officials said   too has the power to act against this industry which is polluting in nature and has not made improvements despite multiple notices.
