Ahmedabad: Trouble seems to be mounting for ex-BJP MLA from Dhari, Nalin Kotadiya, as he ducked the second summons issued by CID crime in the bitcoin extortion case. CID officials said Kotadiya was called for questioning at 3pm on Saturday, but did not turn up. His wife Shweta Kotadiya told TOI that he has gone out since Friday morning and is yet to return home.

 Kotadiya’s name surfaced in statements given by accused in the bitcoin case. “The accused had mentioned in their statements that Kotadiya was paid his part of the money in the kidnapping drama of Shailesh Bhatt — which was staged by Bhatt’s business partner Kirit Paladiya. Bhatt’s crypto-currency wallets ware managed by Paladiya,” said a CID crime official.
 
 CID said a third summons will be issued shortly to Kotadiya and if he continues to ignore the summons, the agency will approach the court to have him declared as an absconder.
 
 Bharat Patel, an employee of P Umesh Angadiya firm in Ahmedabad is being questioned by CID crime, as he had allegedly transferred a sum of Rs 35 lakh to Kotadiya at the behest of Kirit Paladiya of Surat, the main accused in the case.
 
 “We have also recovered the receipt which was drawn in the name of Paladiya for sending money to Kotadiya from Surat. The rest of the money was delivered to Kotadiya by advocate Ketan Patel who is an accused in the case and has been arrested earlier,” said a CID crime official. The complainant Shailesh Bhatt, who hails from Amreli and currently lives in Surat, had alleged that he had been kidnapped on February 11 by Amreli LCB inspector Anant Patel and illegally held at Keshav Farm in Ahmedabad.
 
 “He had also alleged that 176 bitcoins worth Rs 12 crore were extorted from him. However, Bhatt has failed to explain from where he had acquired the bitcoins. We are conducting a parallel investigation into another incident in which the administrator of bitcoin investment company was kidnapped in Surat and 1,850 bitcoins extorted from him,” said a CID crime official.
 
 
