HYDERABAD: Taking into cognisance the chargesheet filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the Penna Cements episode of YS Jaganmohan Reddy disproportionate assets case, a designated special court in Hyderabad trying money laundering cases has issued summons to  , Penna Cements Chairman Puttamreddy Pratap Reddy, YSRCP MP Vijay Sai Reddy and 7 others. They have been directed to be present before the court on March 16. ED’s Public Prosecutor K Manmadha Rao filed this chargesheet before the ED special court.

 Basing on a CBI chargesheet in the case, the ED had launched its probe and is tracking the journey of the proceeds of the crime. As part of the quid pro quo arrangement, the then governmentled by YS   had doled out several public assets to Penna Cements and its subsidiaries. Penna Chairman Pratap Reddy and his firms had invested Rs 68 crore in Jagan firms, the chargesheet states.
 
 Penna Cements gained huge benefits like 1,000 acre limestone mine in Ranga Reddy district for its unit called Penna Tandur Cement Company in the same district. This was in addition to the 230 acres given to Penna Cements in Ananathapur district’s Yadiki mandal and 700 acres of limestone mine in   district also in favour of Penna Cements.
 
 In 2005, the state had accorded permission to Penna subsidiary firms for construction of multi-storied buildings in Banjara Hills and Jubilee Hills and had also relaxed norms of floor space index.
 
 In April 2007, the mining lease for limestone over an extent of 970 acres in   and Kundanakota villages in   district was granted in favour of M/s. Penna Cement Industries Ltd. Pioneer Holiday Resorts, a subsidiary of Penna, was also accorded huge benefits for raising star hotels in Hyderabad. Pioneer infra had invested Rs 10 crore in Jagathi publications owned by Jagan.
 
 The ED is now tracking the proceeds of crime made with the help of these public assets. It is seeking the prosecution of the accused in the case under Sections 3 and 4 of Prevention of Money Laundering Act.
 
