NEW DELHI: India’s Punjab National Bank (PNB) is all set to announce its fourth   today. Early guesses foresee the bank to post a huge March quarter loss on May 15, 2018 since the public sector lender has been strangling in a 2 billion dollars fraud, higher bond yields and tighter bad loan norms.

 As per an early poll conducted by Bloomberg, market analysts estimated an average, that PNB will report a stand-alone net loss of Rs 3,835 crore in the fourth quarter.
 PNB’s earnings will be pressurised as it will have to make enough provisions to deal with the scam-related payouts to other banks. The Delhi-based lender will also have to make higher provisions for non-performing assets after the   (RBI) ordered an immediate recognition of bad debts that also affected the results of other lenders.
 
 Punjab National Bank faces a scam of around Rs 13,000 crore allegedly caused by jewellers   and   along with some bank employees.
 
 Collective companies of Modi and Choksi availed loans from international branches of other banks based on letters of undertaking (LoU) issued by several PNB employees only. Moreover, these were not accounted in the bank’s core banking system. PNB issued a total of 1590 LoUs to group firms of the two businessmen since 2011 and had also announced in March that it will honour all these LoUs.
 
 
 Out of this, the bank paid Rs 6,500 crore to seven banks honouring these LoUs in the March quarter, which is likely to be seen in its quarterly results.
 Additionally, the bank will have to offer for non-performing loans as per the regulations laid down by the RBI to reclassify restructured accounts and recognize them as NPAs.
 
 Last week, a number of state-run banks, such as Dena Bank, Canara Bank, UCO bank and Allahabad Bank reported huge losses. Market analysts claimed that the loss may vary depending on the bank’s decision so as to spread the impact of the bond losses and gratuity expenses across quarters or offer the same in entirety in the March quarter.
 
