MADURAI: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court has asked a woman daily wage worker of   in   to pay Rs 25,000 to the college principal for wasting the court’s precious time through her petition. 

 The worker,  , had in her plea sought a direction to the government and Anna university vice-chancellor to take action against the college principal,  . The petitioner alleged that she was compelled to go to Chitiraiselvi’s house to do domestic work and clean the toilets without following the mandatory requirements under the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and Rehabilitation Act, 2013. She had to wash dresses including those of the principal, her husband and children. When she refused to do it, the principal had scolded her taking her caste name, she alleged. 
 
 Justice   who perused the counter affidavits of the principal and the police, said that two police enquiries clearly showed that both the petitioner and the principal belonged to the same community (that comes under the scheduled caste). “Therefore, the allegations made by the petitioner against the principal that she (the principal) abused her by using the caste name is nothing, but a calculated falsehood.”
 
 The judge further said that, “In my considered opinion, when the petitioner was serving as a daily rated employee and her nature of work is to clean the premises including the restroom and also to wash the clothes, it is not known how the petitioner can exceptionally make a complaint that the principal had compelled her. When she on routine basis is also posted in the principal’s house, she has to clean the toilets in the house and also wash her dresses irrespective of the fact that whether it is her dresses or the inner dresses of her husband or other members. It doesn’t make any difference.” The judge said that a sweeper could not complain that she could not be compelled to clean up the toilet and therefore making a complaint that the scavenger was compelled to clean up the toilet was wholly unacceptable. 
 
 
