(Avijit_Sir_Done)

 Aurangabad: The   has declined to stay Bombay High Court’s order restraining Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) from dumping its waste in   yard and has asked the   to remain present on Friday when the special leave petition (SLP) filed by   would come up for hearing.
 
 The division bench of the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court, comprising Justice S S Shinde and S M Gavhane, on March 9 allowed a PIL filed by people of Mandki and nearby villages, restraining the corporation from dumping any waste at the gut no. 78/79 in Mandki village on various grounds.
 
 The municipal corporation, however, challenged the high court’s judgment in the Supreme Court requesting for a nod to dump waste at Naregaon-Mandki yard for 12 months till the processing plant is set up. The plea made by the counsel for AMC in Supreme Court said that there was no other option but to continue dumping at Naregaon for the interim period.
 
 When the petition came up for hearing in the Supreme Court on Monday, Pradnya Talekar and Atul Dakh, who represented the original petitioners in the high court Vijay Laxmanrao Dak, opposed the civic body’s contention and pointed out that it was in stark contrast to the stand taken by the chief minister, who holds urban development department portfolio, as well as the in-charge AMC commissioner. The in-charge municipal commissioner has identified 96 sites in the city for composting wet waste so that no single place is targeted for dumping and there is scientific disposal within the city itself.
 
 Following the arguments, the Supreme Court bench comprising Justice A K Sikri and Justice  , while declining the civic body’s plea, kept the matter for hearing on Friday and directed the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board to remain present through its counsel, said Talekar. Lawyers   and Jayant Bhushan appeared for the municipal corporation whereas Pradnya Talekar and Atul Dakh represented the villagers of Naregaon and Mandaki (the original petitioners), who have been made respondents by the municipal commissioner in his SLP.
 
 The high court had allowed PIL filed by villagers by restraining the corporation from dumping any waste at the gut no. 78/79 in Mandki village on the grounds that mixed municipal waste of the city was being dumped outside the municipal limits for last 33 years without any treatment. There was no NOC from gram panchayat, nor from the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board and dumping was carried out around 2 km from airport, which is in contravention of aircraft act and rules. Dumping was carried out despite the 2003 judgment of the high court to stop dumping at Naregaon within 6 months.
 
 
