Vijayawada: The flawed process of issuing licenses is the main reason why people with inadequate driving skills are allowed to get on the road with their vehicles, thereby putting lives of others at risk. 

 India leads in number of road deaths across the globe with one in every 10 deaths being reported from the country. Global road safety experts have said, target to reduce road deaths by half across the world is not possible until India improves its record. This squarely puts the focus on the process of issuing licenses, and the authorities empowered to do so. The transport department is still one of the most corrupt departments in the country, despite various technological initiatives to bring transparency. The system in Vijayawada is no different. Experts are calling for road safety reforms, and change in the process of testing a driver.
 
 Apart from corruption, flaws are evident at multiple levels. Firstly, though driving licenses are issued after an online test, the transport department is burdened with many applications that have to be cleared within a stipulated time. This mean they get very less time to test a driver’s capabilities and road sense. Secondly, pressure from politicians and influential persons on license issuing authorities plays a major role. Because of shortage of staff, transport officers do not spend sufficient time in testing a driver’s skills. 
 
 Also, nobody bothers to update their road safety knowledge after license is issued. With so many poorly tested drivers, the city’s, and the country’s, driving culture is among the worst in the world. The ‘agent system’ is still prevalent at RTO offices across the state, even after the entire system went online. Touts have found ways to creep into the system. They can procure licenses even without driving tests, by colluding with officials. 
 
 The offenders mostly take it easy, as meagre fines are imposed on them, said M Vasu, founder of VHEEDU, an NGO which works on various issues, including road safety. 
 
 
