Chennai: The banking industry, which has steadily been lowering its benchmark lending rate, could be at inflection point with interest rates bound to head north going forward. With the cost of funds increasing and hardening of bond yields, more banks are likely to follow in the wake of State Bank of India and HDFC Bank — which increased their marginal cost of funds based lending rate by 5-10 basis points. “Interest rates are on the way up, and so will be net interest margins. With increasing risks of rising inflation owing to multiple factors (proposed MSP hikes, fiscal slippage, rise in crude prices, among others) as highlighted by Reserve Bank of India, possibility of rate hike in coming quarters seems more likely. Spread between policy rate and government bond yield is at 150 bps, significantly higher than 60 bps 5-yr average, making a strong case for policy rate hike,” said Nilanjan Karfa, analyst, Jefferies.  Profits have been under strain with investment losses and NPAs, said CARE Ratings, in an analysis of 13 public and 17 private banks’ performance. “A major setback for banks was the decline in other income which is primarily due to the rise in yields on investments which affected the profit and loss due to the mark-to-market losses that were booked. It may be pointed out that in December yields increased when the government announced an enhancement in its borrowing programme, said CARE Ratings.  With surplus liquidity on hands and growing liabilities, banks are yet to see notable credit growth despite a low-interest regime, said analysts. “The increase in liquidity started with demonetisation and the resultant slump in the economy worsened with GST. Post-GST, a lot of banks increased statutory liquidity ratio (SLR); particularly the PSUs,” says Dhananjay Sinha, head, research, Emkay Global. Analysts say the losses public-sector banks were making earlier was masked in part by their trading profits and uptick in revenue from treasury operations. “Now there is a sharp dip in treasury income. So we have slower growth, elevated credit costs and heightened trading losses on the back of stiffening bond yields,” said Sinha. The forseeable rise in interest rates might also get tied-in with lower credit growth. “Newer stringent rules could alter risk taking by banks and stymie capital flow in to productive sectors especially infrastructure segment, where projects are hampered not just owing to financial conditions but face a multitude of political, execution and environmental risks. Therefore, the better rated corporates will be chased around and lending spreads here are likely to remain subdued for a fairly long time. Banks with the cheapest cost of funds will obviously benefit,” said Jefferies' Karfa.  Another concern is that while the government’s recapitlisation efforts will be enough to cover credit costs it will not provide growth capital for the PSUs. “We expect public-sector banks to lose some marketshare even after credit growth has improved,” said Sinha.