Ghaziabad: The district administration has decided to plant two lakh   in Ghaziabad, out of which at least one lakh would be planted along the banks of Hindon river, district magistrate Ritu Maheshwari said. She was speaking after a meeting convened by divisional commissioner Prabhat Kumar to discuss the Hindon rejuvenation programme on Saturday. 

 Among the many measures discussed at the meeting to rejuvenate the river, Kumar laid stress on initiating a massive plantation drive along its banks, sources said. “This year, before the monsoon starts, we will plant two lakh saplings in the city out of which one lakh will be planted along the banks of Hindon river. It has also been decided that to facilitate the plantation, farmers who own the land on the banks will be compensated with gram sabha land,” said Maheshwari. A proposal will also be sent to the Centre seeking funds under Namami Gange project to rejuvenate Hindon river, she added.
 
 In July last year, on the directions of Kumar, a Nirmal Hindon Kosh with a corpus fund of Rs one crore was created in which development authorities of all six districts through which the river passes were asked to contribute.
 
 Hindon, also known as Harnandi, is a rain-fed river that originates in Saharanpur and flows through Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Baghpat and Ghaziabad, before merging with Yamuna in Gautam Budh Nagar.
 
 Due to high level of pollution, the river had earned the name of ‘dead river’ and its water declared ‘unfit’ even for bathing, as per Central Pollution Control Board report of 2015.
 
 Though environmentalists are upbeat over the administration’s new found zest to cleanse the river, they feel that unless the polluting units on its banks are not closed down, the situation will not improve. “As per the report from the pollution board, there are nearly 360 polluting industries primarily dealing in fabrics, tannery, paper, sugar and distillery which are major sources of pollution. Unless these are closed down, things will not improve,” said Vikrant Sharma from Jal Biradari.
 
 “Untreated sewage and municipal solid wastes from the heavily populated cities on its banks, especially Ghaziabad and Noida, are being discharged into the river without proper treatment and this is another area where administration needs to work,” said Sharma.
 
 
