MEERUT: A day after   from Dibai constituency in   district of Uttar Pradesh, Anita Lodhi, lodged a police complaint stating that she was getting ransom messages from Dubai, the extortionist again sent a message to her before dawn on Tuesday threatening her of dire consequences if Rs 10 lakh was not paid. The extortionist, who addresses himself as Ali Budesh Bhai, said her family members would be killed one by one if she did not pay up.

  The Ghaziabad police on Tuesday filed an FIR, as the legislator and her family stay in Ghaziabad.
 
  According to MLA Lodhi, “On Saturday, I received a message, in which the extortionist threatened to kill my family members one by one if I did not pay a ransom of Rs 10 lakh. The extortionist gave me three days' time to arrange the money. Initially, I ignored the message but when I started getting a series of threat messages starting Monday morning, I filed a police complaint."
  While the police were trying to work out the case, the legislator got yet another message before dawn on Tuesday in which the extortionist said he had already sent pictures of her family members to his henchmen in Bulandshahr. The extortionist said his threats were real and that he meant business.
 
  When asked about the matter, Ghaziabad senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vaibhav Krishna said, “An FIR has been lodged at   police station, and a probe is on in the matter. We have provided additional security to the MLA and her family members. Since the matter is with the cyber cell, we cannot divulge any further details in the matter.”
  
  On being asked by TOI about the matter, a source in the cyber crime cell said on the condition of anonymity that it was not easy to trace the number as such calls and messages were often made via Voice Over Internet Protocol (VOIP), which uses illegal networks. There is always the possibility that the caller could be a local, and is using an illegal network to show that the messages are being sent from a foreign country, the source said.
