CHENNAI: After dilly-dallying for the longest time on launching a party, rebel AIADMK leader and independent MLA from RK Nagar   is ready to launch his own outfit. And to set the stage for a takeover of the AIADMK.

 On Sunday, he announced that he would launch the party and unveil its flag in Melur, near Madurai, on March 15, when the Edappadi K Palaniswami government presents its budget in the assembly. 
 
 The path to launching a new party was paved by the Delhi high court, which directed the election commission to allot TTV a name for his party from a list he submits and to give the party a symbol (pressure cooker). While the ruling AIADMK is likely to contest the Delhi high court order by preferring an appeal in the Supreme Court, Team TTV is ready to go ahead with its plan.
 
 “While taking over the AIADMK from the hands of betrayers is our target, we need political recognition by way of a party and symbol in the interim to continue strengthening our political journey. We will announce the party name and unveil the party flag by hoisting it at a function at Melur in Madurai district on Thursday morning,” TTV said on Sunday, inviting party cadres and members of the public to participate in the event.
 
 Several names for the new party have been doing the rounds, but party insiders were not willing to confirm anything. “The party name will surely have ‘Amma’ in it, but beyond it is anybody’s guess,” a party leader said.
 
 His team has been working on the plan for a separate party for a few months. It gained momentum after his RK Nagar victory. “The initial plan was to target about 70 winnable assembly segments and focus attention there. By winning at least 50-60 constituencies, the idea was to ensure that no one could come to power in the state without the support of TTV,” he said. “Over the past few weeks, given the response TTV was getting wherever he went, more assembly segments and regions, including Chennai and a few northern districts, [are on] the radar.”
 
 The court verdict seems to have emboldened the 18 disqualified MLAs to openly canvass support for TTV. “We are going ahead with our plans, based on the Delhi HC direction, which was very clear. We are free to launch a parallel outfit and we are working hard to do so,” said  , the TTV faction’s propaganda secretary and disqualified Andipatti MLA.
 
 “We will all participate in the party launch function,” said disqualified   and staunch TTV supporter T A Elumalai.
 
 
