KOLKATA: Tagore’s houses – both in Kolkata and Santiniketan- draw innumerable number of tourists from across the world. Yet, the best preserved house of Bengal’s greatest literary giants has not been able to securely keep the Nobel prize. If this is what happens to Tagore’s memorabilia, what are the home truths of our other iconic authors?

 The recent sale of author   Bandopadhyay’s house has drawn a lot of attention. On a lazy spring afternoon, the house is witness to a lot of activity. Labourers are busy with renovation work. But a visitor is still allowed to see the ground floor room where Tarashankar would sit on the floor to write some of his cult works including “Jalsaghar”, “Dhatridevata” and “Hansuli Banker Upakatha”. In the next six months, this room will house the Tarashankar museum. The decision was taken after the author’s grandson Amalshankar  , along with 11 share holders, sold the house at a whopping price of Rs 2 crore 25 lakh to Bangiya Sahitya Parishad.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Provided the security arrangements can be tightened, this address is expected to draw tourists who want to see where the author had lived from July 1948 to September 1971. Baridbaran Ghosh, the president of the Parishad, is supposed to meet the state education minister shortly to discuss the fund issues. Unfortunately, just one room will be turned into a museum while the other 11 will be used by the Parishad for other works. “While two rooms will be turned into a guest house, another will be used as a seminar hall. One wing of our organisation will be shifted to this house,” Ghosh said.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Seated in the now-empty room that will host the museum, Amalshankar now has memories for company. How a coir mattress would be spread on the floor… How a deer skin would be laid on it for his grandfather to sit and write… how the likes of Manik Bandopadhyay, Satyajit Ray and Bibhutibhushan Bandopadhyay would drop by for evening adda….
 
 Kazi Nazrul Islam’s house at 46A Tala Park Avenue is just round the corner. During his trips to Labhpur, Nazrul had often visited Tarashankar’s village house there. Didn’t he ever come down to Tarashankar’s 27 Tala Park Avenue residence (whose current address is 27 Tarashankar Sarani)? Amalshankar has no memories of that.
 
 
  
  
 
 At 46A Tala Park Avenue, a bust of Nazrul is the only way to connect the author to the address. Nazrul’s 83-year-old daughter-in-law Kalyani Kazi, who now lives in Purna Das Road, says the author had lived in this rented flat from 1957 till 1962 when his wife died. He was then shifted to a two-room government accommodation on CIT road before finally being taken to Dhaka by the Mujibur government in 1972. “Even during those days, it was very difficult for my father-in-law to get a house on rent in Kolkata. His Muslim identity came in the way and we had to shift many houses in Kolkata. Lack of accommodation forced him to even stay in Hazaribagh. We first shifted to Manmatha Dutta Road and eventually to this house in 1957. When Baba shifted to the CIT road house, we were literally thrown out of this Tala Park Avenue flat,” she said.
 
 After a prolonged legal battle, Kalyani’s son Kazi Arindam finally bought this flat in the 1990s. The room, where Nazrul stayed, remains. The red floor or the windowsill where he would sit and stare at the open sky haven’t been renovated. Nothing else of the past remains. His belongings, including the two-door gramophone and easy chair, have been donated. Many others, including manuscripts, have gone missing. “We had offers to shift out of the flat for it to be converted into a museum. But we refused. This is a house where four generations have lived. I bought it myself and want it to remain as our family house,” Arindam insists. So, building a museum here is out of question.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The only exception, of course, is in case of Tagore.
 
 But for the others, not much has been done. Feluda’s creator, Satyajit Ray, draws global interest. However, there is still no museum in Kolkata to show the memorabilia of the icon or even that of his father, Sukumar Ray. Director Sandip Ray admits that now many tourists often drop by at their residence, especially after the renaming of the road to Satyajit Ray Dharani. “We live in this house as tenants and such visits sometimes compromise on our privacy. At the Ray Society, we have been trying to find a space where we can have a museum, film and study centre for Baba. The venue needs to be accessible. Besides, the memorabilia is valuable and we can’t just give it to anyone to control it,” Ray says. Some years back, he had got a proposal to make a museum for Feluda. “Though it fizzled out, I am still open to the idea,” he adds.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyay’s residence on 24 Abani Dutta Road where he had lived from 1934 till he breathed his last in 1938 – the Sarat Smriti Mandir – has a museum. But, it is open to visitors only if permission is sought in advance. The collection is impressive including Tagore’s birthday gift to the author, his British Indian passport, silk socks, revolver, air gun and the rare manuscript of ‘Pather Dabi’. According to Shyamal K Basu, general secretary of Sarat Samity (the trust that looks after the house), “There is no entry fee and students come in large numbers. We come up with publications and every Friday, we organise discussions on Sarat Chandra’s works. I’ve recently been to Shakespeare’s birthplace in Stratford-upon-Avon and the Lake districts where Wordsworth lived. I can say our collection is no less than what’s on display there.”
 
 Basu’s passion for the author is endearing but few will agree that their display of the memorabilia is any match to what’s on offer at the Bard’s house. Aesthetically, the curtains don’t match the old-world charm of the house. The model of Sarat Chandra seated on an armchair looks tad scary. The Shakespeare Birthplace Trust, which had purchased the Bard’s house when it had gone up for sale in 1847, certainly doesn’t have any such models on its premises. Visitors, who pay £15.75 (approximately Rs 1,428) to enter, can take a look at the collection including his burial recorded at the Holy Trinity Parish Register and copies of the First Folio of his complete works, listen to costumed guides narrating tales from Shakespeare’s family life and watch resident actors enacting scenes from the plays on request.
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 But heritage keepers in Kolkata certainly don’t subscribe to marketing their authors’ houses. When funds are a problem, they still flaunt about not charging any entry fee. Gift shops attached to such venues selling fridge magnets, bookmarks and T-shirts of authors or screening of short films on authors are unheard of.
 
 Compare this with Jane Austen’s house museum in Britain’s Chawton and there, a lady at the giftshop offers newly introduced Jane Austen £10 notes to any visitor asking for change at the counter. Needless to say, this gesture only adds to the curiosity of entering the house by paying an entry fee of £8.50 (Rs 771.85), take a walk down Austen’s garden and see the “Jane Austen in 41 Objects” project. Apart from the mourn broch that still has a lock of Austen’s hair to the Muslin shawl she had embroidered, the museum also has her turquoise and gold ring. The story goes that the ring was put on auction in 2012 by Sotheby’s and bought by American singer Kelly Clarkson for £150,000 (approximately Rs 1,36,18,720) but couldn’t be taken out of Britain because of an export ban. The museum finally bought in 2013 after receiving donations from private and public funders.
 
  
  
 
 Kolkata can never boast of this kind of effort to source and preserve heritage. The controversy surrounding Michael Madhusudan Dutt’s house in Kolkata is proof of that. Here, writers’ houses crumble. Manuscripts disappear. Post the Nobel theft, security of the memorabilia is a big worry. Too much of media coverage is also not welcome for the fear of drawing attention of landsharks waiting to turn them into highrises.
 
 Shuvaprasanna, chairman of West Bengal Heritage Commission, is still overwhelmed by the way Tolstoy and Alexander Pushkin’s houses have been preserved in Russia. “In Germany, every author’s house has been beautifully preserved. Here in Kolkata, we have all the emotions in place but aren’t proactive about putting it to good use. If we truly like to express our gratitude, we need to aesthetically display their memorabilia. For posterity, we need to put up blue plaques in front of houses of Ashapurna Devi, Suniti Kumar Chattopadhyay, Narendra Mitra, Radharani Devi and Soumendranath Thakur,” he says.
 
 In 2010, author Subodh Sarkar went to see Russia as part of an Indian writers’ delegation. “I was taken to the house of Boris Pasternak. It was amazing that the custodians had kept it just the way it was described in his Nobel prize winning ‘Doctor Zhivago’. I wish, we are able to inculcate the same sentiments while preserving writers’ houses in Kolkata. It can be a part of the city’s heritage tourism,” Sarkar says.
 
 Unfortunately, few memorials in Kolkata allow photography inside. Even the nicely-maintained memorial of Mahasweta Devi at her South Kolkata residence where she lived between 2011 and 2015 doesn’t allow photography inside. So, even if you see her Ramon Magsaysay award or Bharatiya Jnanpith Prashati Patra, you can’t click a photo to share on social media.
 
  
  
 
 
 This is in sharp contrast from the practices in the West. In defence, however, Kolkata easily says there can never be any comparison between the East and the West. Of course, the fund issue is readily put forward to even justify the lack of understanding that the present and the future can never exist unless the past is preserved well. But rarely does one admit that unlike abroad, everyone here isn’t keen to treasure history. A visit to Charles Dicken’s birthplace (entry fee of £4.20 is approximately Rs 381) in Britain’s Portsmouth shows the difference. The Portsmouth City Council gives major support but the locals’ contribution is no less. A retired British lady, all decked in Victorian costume, gives a guided tour of the fully-furnished parlour, dining room and bedroom. She happily clicks photographs of visitors, shows them Dickens’ snuff box, inkwell, paper knife and the couch on which the author had died at his house in Kent. She does all this out of love. “It is voluntary service. I don’t charge any honorarium for my work,” she smiles and says.
 
  
  
 
 Forget such a volunteer to show around visitors, stray dogs barking at an open vat will greet a visitor in front of 134 Muktaram Babu Street where stands the dilapidated mess. This was once the residence of humourist Shibram Chakraborty – the creator of Harshabardhan and Gobardhan. The walls of the first floor room where he once lived still have scribblings by the author of ‘Bari Theke Paliye’ which was cinematically adapted by Ritwik Ghatak. Tapan – the cook who used to once serve Shibram – now works for the 21 tenants. In Shibram’s room now stay three borders. Advocate Sourav Mondal, who is one among them, shows the dark and dingy corridor in front of the bathroom where Shibram had fallen to death in 1980 and the kitchen-cum-dining area overlooking a cowshed. Food here is still cooked in mud ovens. Just like Shibram’s times, tenants still have to adhere to the practice of sitting on the floor while meals are served to them. “It would be good if this house is preserved,” he says.
 
 Not too far away from Shibram’s house is the residence of another cult Bengali author – Narayan Gangopadhyay. The creator of the endearing character Tenida used to live at 18 Potoldanga Street. The two-storied house, which has six rooms, is now the address of civil contractor Shiboprosad Rath. “The house has been taken on lease from the government. I shifted here in 2001 as the caretaker. There is nothing of the author left in the house,” claims Rath.
 
  
  
 
 Another very interesting address is 66 MG Road. Here stands the dilapidated Presidency Boarding House which was once the abode of at least three stalwarts in Kolkata. In one of the rooms on the second floor, poet Jibanananda Das had stayed between 1932 and 1938 whenever he came down from Bangladesh to Kolkata during this period. Even Saradindu Bandopadhyay had stayed here between 1925 and 1927. It was here in one of the rooms where he had written Byomkesh Bakshi. “Director Dibakar Banerjee had done a recce of this house and the sets of his Byomkesh film just resembles our house closely. Even film-maker Tapan Sinha had lived in one of these rooms for more than a year. We can’t exactly identify which room Jibanananda had stayed in. There are references to this house in his letters. Since he loved trams, we identified one room that opens into a balcony, as the one where he stayed. We had organised one birth anniversary programme in that room too,” said Sandip Dutta, the owner of Presidency Boarding House. Dutta admits that setting up a museum is a dream that won’t be easy to accomplish. A government lease property which now houses an eatery will have to cross many a hurdle if such a plan has to be materialised.
 
 Quite close is the Vidyasagar Smriti Mandir on 36, Vidyasagar Street where Iswar Chandra Vidyasagar had breathed his last on July 29, 1891. The majestic Badurbagan residence – where visitors have to pay Rs 5 to enter- is neatly maintained but doesn’t have any memorabilia to show apart from his stained pillow and unimpressive statue. The eyesore is a spelling error of the word ‘cause’ on one of the display boards where the note on Vidyasagar’s death states: “… doctors suspected liver cancer as couse of his death”.
 
  
  
  
 
 
 Such an error is unthinkable when one looks at the numerous boards on display at Keats Grove in north London. Visitors are allowed entry by paying £6.50 (approximately Rs 589) to see where John Keats had lived for 17 months since 1818. It would be a mistake to assume that acquiring heritage houses in the West is a cake walk. In 1920, this house of Keats was threatened with demolition to make way for a row of flats. The property was offered for sale but the efforts of a Memorial Committee helped to raise funds to buy, repair and maintain it as a memorial to Keats. In 1998, the City of London assumed responsibility for this House.
  
  
 
 
 Not too many heirs of authors living in Kolkata are willing to hand over their properties to the government. Some claim not to even want to take any assistance from the State. On record they don’t want to state the reasons. But in private, they admit of not being sure of how the houses will finally be preserved. They can’t get over the fear of their ancestral property finally turning into adda zones of political workers instead of museums.
 
 
 In 1952-53, author Bimal Mitra had bought a 100-year-old house on 29/1/1 Chetla Central Road from a judge after he got the royalty for writing “Saheb Bibi Golam”. His son-in-law Kamalesh Basu, who is now the managing trustee of Bimal Mitra Academic Trust, admits that there is a general apathy towards preserving literary heritage unless it belongs to Tagore. Basu, who lives in the same house, has plans of converting the terrace of their building into a museum. “But that will happen only after we have taken his works to the global audience. My father-in-law died in 1991 and we are now busy with translating and digitising his works,” Basu says.
 
 But before all these happen, it is important for readers to first believe that buying and reading books are not enough to pay tribute to their favourite authors. The footloose and fancy free Kolkatan who will not bat an eyelid to spend money to visit Puri must also be open to paying an entry fee and visiting authors’ houses as tourists. Just flaunting the intellectual past in conversations isn’t enough. It’s time to be proactive about preserving the city’s literary heritage as well.
 
