NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ) has proposed to develop a multispecialty hospital on sprawling 69,940 sq ft land on PPP model on VIP Road, Dharampeth. The project will come up where Dik Dispensary, school and office of water works department are situated currently.

 Mayor Nanda Jichkar has called a general body meeting on Tuesday, where the proposal will be put up. NMC Dharampeth Zone is seeking permission to demolish structures of Dik Dispensary, school and office of water works department.
 
 NMC had proposed to develop multispecialty hospital only on Dik Dispensary land last year. Office of water works department and school are situated behind Dik Dispensary. Recently, office of water works department shifted to NMC’s new administrative building at Civil Lines. Then the civic body revised its plan and proposed project on entire land. Accordingly, NMC also shifted the students to nearby schools.
 
 NMC officials told TOI the project will also comprise some commercial shops to make it feasible. “Consultant to prepare detailed project report was already appointed. Now, scope of work has been revised. NMC is likely to float expression of interest within a few months,” he said.
 
 NMC official added the state government has changed the reservation on the land recently. “Land was reserved for government and semi-government purpose. Now, reservation has been changed to commercial. Developer will get benefit of commercial floor space index (FSI). Also, the land is situated at prime location. Therefore, chances of getting good response to the project are more,” he said.
 
 The civic body had planned to develop multispecialty hospitals at four locations — Dik Dispensary,  , Isolation Hospital, and   — in 2009. Unfortunately, the project remained on paper due to recession and other reasons. If it materializes, it will be NMC’s first multispecialty hospital.
 
 HOLEY TO BE NEXT STANDING PANEL CHIEF
 
 BJP corporator from South Nagpur Satish Holey is likely to be the next standing committee chairman in NMC. If finalized, he will be the chairman and present NMC’s budget for 2018-19.
 
 Eight of total 16 members of standing committee will retire on March 1. The eight members include seven from BJP — Sangeeta Girhe, Rita Mule, Usha Pilot, Durga Hattithele, Bhagyashree Kantode, Manisha Kote, Sarita Kawre and one from   — Harish Gwalbanshi.
 
 Existing chairman Sandip Jadhav has the option to continue for one more year in the committee. As a tradition, BJP has decided to replace the chairman. BJP will submit names of new members in the general body meeting on Tuesday.
 
 BJP sources told TOI three names are being considered for chairman’s post — Holey, Vicky Kukreja and  , but Holey is likely to win the race. He was deputy mayor in the last regime.
 
 
