 is on cloud nine these days, or rather, on cloud 10! After all, she is back in the top 10 of the women’s singles world rankings now. After spending months away from the game due to reconstructive surgery on her knee, the ace shuttler recently won the singles gold at the Commonwealth Games and returned to the top 10 in the world rankings. The Hyderabad girl sits pretty at number 10 right now, seven spots below compatriot and rival  . But such comparisons are not on Saina’s radar right now. Back after winning bronze at the Asian   Championship, Saina spoke to us about the times she thought she might never play at this level again, her rivalry with Sindhu, and why she reacted so strongly to her father not being allowed inside the   Village last month.

  
 
 In a way, yes. I had never gone away for such a long time, for almost six-seven months, starting with my rehab for the surgery. It was something I had never done before. I didn’t know how to deal with it or what to do. When I returned, my movements on the court were difficult, I was struggling and had issues lunging. It was a difficult phase.
 
  
  Saina Nehwal
 
 
 
 There wasn’t self-doubt, but I was wondering how will I make a comeback. It’s not easy to return after surgery with the same kind of force and form that you had before it. And I could sense it three-four months into my return, as I was no longer able to play the shots that I could easily play earlier. But I started to get my rhythm back. The bronze medal in the World Championships last year made me feel that yes, I am back among the best again now. It gave me the confidence. But then, injuries returned again after the Indonesia Open this year, which was disheartening. 
 
 
 
 I started being more fierce on the court. That’s what Gopi sir (Pullela Gopichand, the national coach) also wanted. So he is very happy that I am able to move well and pick up those tough shots.
 
  
 
 Oh, happier! When I’m winning, I’m the happiest person out there (laughs).
 
  
  
 
 It’s challenging. It was a difficult phase anyway, because you aren’t there on the scene. Others are performing and winning, and you do tend to develop a lot of negative feelings in your head. Had I been playing, I would have been in a much more positive frame of mind, not thinking of what others were doing or saying. But since I was resting, I had little else to do. In the end, people will talk. They talk about everyone – from me to our Prime Minister! You have to learn to come out of that situation so that the talks stop affecting you. And in that, my team helped, particularly my parents. When I had that surgery and had to motivate myself to go to the gym, they would be the ones to say, ‘We are going to the gym, are you coming along?’ They were the ones who encouraged me to move forward in those first few months, when it was very difficult for me as I was sitting and doing nothing.
 
  
  
 
 
 I’ve always been mentally strong. Mentally, it’s tough for anyone to break me down. I fight till the last breath, never losing the hope that I can come back in the game. All I want is to play well. I wasn’t worried about what results I will get. And that is what has been happening in the last one month, where I see myself playing well regardless of the result. I missed out on one more gold (in the Asian Championship) but I’m happy I gave Tai Tzu Ying (the World No 1) a tough fight. Going ahead, I will continue what I have been doing – focus on my game, because I have stopped thinking about the competition. I cannot control their game, I can only control mine.
 
  
  Saina Nehwal with her father Harvir Singh Nehwal after winning gold at the Commonwealth Games 
 
  
 
 It definitely was. Before going there, everything was sorted. There was no issue. But you reach there, almost at midnight, and they say he can’t enter the Village, it came as a surprise. That happening to my father so unexpectedly was why I reacted and tweeted about it. I went there to give my best and for my father to see me doing that. I was annoyed that I had been assured everything was okay, but there I see his name cut from the list of people allowed inside the Village. The entire next day, I couldn’t train because of this issue. I was supposed to be focusing on my meals and practice, but I was caught up in all this because my father was sitting in the office all day. But in the end, you have to play the matches because that’s what you have gone for. And I thought I had prepared so much, travelled so far, and I did not want to get into any trouble with my performance there. So I reacted initially, but then, I had to re-focus on the game.
 
  
  
 
  
 
 Comparisons will happen. They happen in every sport. She is doing her thing, playing really well. Now I have also started playing well again, so yes, people will compare and talk about the rivalry. And any rivalry with a top-10 player is always good. I am just happy to be in the top 10 again and know that I can beat most of them.
 
  
 
 Yes, we are. I wouldn’t say we are quite there alongside China or Korea yet, but we are improving. If we keep performing like this and our juniors continue this, the future looks great.
 
 
