Mumbai: Lenders to   expect far more aggressive quotes from   and   in the second round of bidding. Banks are also not ruling out new entrants, which could make the process more competitive.

 This month the court-appointed resolution professional (RP), who is managing Essar Steel in the ongoing insolvency proceedings, ruled the two bids by Numetal and ArcelorMittal as invalid. Russia’s   Bank-promoted Numetal’s bid was turned down because of the presence of   — the younger son of Essar Group promoter Ravi Ruia — as a shareholder in the company. ArcelorMittal’s bid also did not qualify because the company was a promoter of   and KSS Petron — two defaulting companies.
 
 Both these bidders are expected to get regularised in the second round of bidding. VTB has said that it is prepared to drop Ruia from Numetal if that was a precondition for it to qualify for the bid. Meanwhile, ArcelorMittal has exited the loss-making Uttam Galva and KSS Petron. 
 
 “Now that the bidders know how keen the other group is to acquire the company, we feel that they might submit higher bids,” said a public sector bank official. “In the second round, the focus will be on price as bidders are expected to have sorted out the eligibility part. Since the negotiations will be only with the company offering the higher quote, both will have to try and outbid the other,” he added.
 
 Lenders are also not ruling out new entrants other than Numetal and ArcelorMittal. Although a final call on the fresh bids will be taken in a meeting of lenders on Wednesday, bankers say this is the only way out since the only two bidders were disqualified in the prior round. Nippon Steel and Sumitomo Metal had partnered with Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal, and Russia’s VTB Group used a Mauritius-based investment vehicle Numetal, where Rewant Ruia held a 25% stake. With an aim to debar promoters of defaulting firms, the government last year amended the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), including section 29 (a) that prohibits promoters or associates of companies with   from participating in auctions.
 
 Essar Steel has a total debt of close to Rs 49,000 crore. The company was referred to the   on June 2017 as part of the 12 companies referred by the central bank to lenders for initiation of insolvency proceedings.
 
 
