AHMEDABAD: The   head constable (ministerial) Navratna Choudhari, who had posted videos on social media alleging corruption, authoritarian commanders and poor food quality at his BSF post, has been dismissed from the service with immediate effect.

 Choudhari, who has a master of arts degree, was posted at the BSF Gandhidham headquarter as a clerk. He uploaded several videos featuring himself commenting on the condition of BSF jawans, which had gone viral on social media in February 2017. 
 
 The videos came quick on the heels of those posted by Tejbahadur Yadav, a   in Jammu, whose video showed jawans being served sub-standard rotis. Yadav was also dismissed after an inquiry in April 2017.
 
 Choudhari had also posted videos of people at a BSF camp with bags, which he claimed contained liquor to be sold outside the campus. 
 
 Another video showed a jawan washing a car, allegedly being forced to do so by superior officers.
 
 The videos from Yadav and Choudhari had caused an outrage and senior officers of the force had to come out with clarifications.
 
 Senior BSF officers of the   Frontier said an inquiry was constituted into Choudhari allegations. 
 
 Choudhari proceeded on leave just as the videos went viral. He went to  , his native place in  .
 
 “We conducted a thorough inquiry and served several notices to Choudhari at his residence in Bikaner but he did not turn up. He was given all possible opportunities under the BSF Act and conduct rules. In his initial statement before a BSF DIG, he claimed he does not have anything to say and that had said whatever he wanted to,” a senior BSF officer said.
 
 A BSF officer said the force cannot tolerate indiscipline and he was hence declared dismissed by his commandant officially. 
 
 “The allegations he made in the video also turned out to be baseless. He did not turn up to substantiate them,” said a senior BSF official.
 
 BSF officials had earlier said Pakistan’s spy agency, the ISI, was delighted at the jawans’ allegations. A Gujarat frontier BSF official said Pakistani Rangers would often taunt their soldiers, saying they could come over if they were hungry and would get good food.
 
 
