CHENNAI: Bowing to popular sentiment and growing political pressure, the   government on Monday ordered closure of   plant in Tuticorin and “sealed” the premises “permanently”. The closure order came within hours of deputy chief minister  , fisheries minister D Jayakumar and information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju visiting injured protesters at the Tuticorin government hospital. 

 
 Coming a day ahead of the Tamil Nadu assembly session, the closure is likely to take the sheen off the opposition’s plans to corner the government and press for CM Edappadi K Palaniswami’s resignation over the Sterlite protests and police firing on May 22 and 23 that left 13 dead.   said the state government had issued the order for the closure of the unit, respecting the sentiments of the people. 
 
  
  
 
 “Representatives of several organisations met me today in the presence of the deputy CM and other ministers and requested for closure. The government met the demand by issuing an order today,” he said.
 
 Tamil Nadu CM Palaniswami reiterated charges that the Sterlite management failed to adhere to the conditions laid down by the National Green Tribunal, and therefore, the state pollution control board rejected their request for renewal of consent to operate on April 9, 2018. 
 
 “There is a case pending in the court, but there is no stay (on government acting against the unit). The state will implement what is good for the people,” he said. Even though Sterlite unit had been issued “closure notice” on a couple of occasions earlier, this was the first time the state government has sealed the factory. 
 
 A team of officials led by Tuticorin district collector Sandeep Nanduri sealed the premises on Monday evening. “Closure of Sterlite Copper plant is an unfortunate development, especially since we have operated the plant for over 22 years in most transparent and sustainable way, contributing to Tuticorin and state’s socio-economic development. We will study the order and decide on the future course of action,” Vedanta Limited, which owns the smelter, said in a statement. 
 
 Opposition parties, including DMK, Congress and MDMK, termed the closure a “belated action”, after 13 people lost their lives in the firing. DMDK welcomed the move.
 
