PATNA: The Danapur division of East Central Railway (ECR) has effectively implemented a crowd regulation plan at   to streamline the flow of passengers returning to their respective places after Holi. The plan is under strict surveillance of the   ( ) to avert any stampede-like situation on the platforms during peak hours.

 Danapur DRM Ranjan Prakash   visited Patna Junction on Sunday evening to take stock of the plan.   commandant C M   and senior divisional commercial manager   also accompanied the DRM during his inspection at Patna Junction from 7pm to 9pm.
 
 Thakur on Monday said railway security personnel were deployed on the foot overbridges (FOBs) to ensure that passengers were not standing or causing any hindrance in the movement of others. “Station officials concerned have been instructed not to change platform at the last moment either for arrival or departure of any train at Patna Junction,” Thakur said.
 
 Mishra said railways has deployed one dog squad of the RPF at Patna Junction to keep a tab on the activities of miscreants. “The sniffer dog squad has been pressed into round the clock service at Patna Junction. Coaches of important long-distance mail and express trains are being checked from safety point of view,” he said.
 
 Mishra said the circulating area of Patna Junction has been fully sensitized from security point of view. While vehicle are kept under surveillance, the ‘go and through lane’ in the circulating area has been completely made free from parking.
 
 “Vehicles have been allowed to come and drive down the ‘go and through lane’ quickly. Railways has also decided to install big luggage scanners at the main entrance points of Patna Junction to ensure foolproof safety to passengers,” he said.
 
 Railways has installed at least 52 CCTV cameras of high quality at Patna Junction. “The new cameras will be made functional soon. The greatest advantage of these CCTV cameras is that they are more sensitive with larger reach. Even a small particle will look crystal clear after zooming these cameras,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the DRM has instructed the Patna Junction officials concerned to make proper announcement about arrival and departure of trains. ‘May I Help You’ booth at Patna Junction should provide all possible assistance to elderly and physically challenged passengers.
 
 
