DEHRADUN: Students from Uttarakhand who cleared the entrance examinations of   (NDA) and Combined Defence Service (CDS) for   (IMA) were felicitated and given a cheque of Rs 50,000 each by the higher education department in the presence of Union defence minister  , who was the guest of honour.
 As many as 140 such students were given the one time scholarship on registration.
  
  Higher education minister   said, “We always wanted to felicitate those who have served in the armed forces and are opting for it now. The boys who have cleared the entrance exam for NDA and CDA since 2016 are being given the cheques. We have also felicitated 30 families whose three generations have served in the forces.”
  Sitharaman said, “I have always heard that in Uttarakhand at least one member is most families are in defence forces. It is a land of bravery and valour. I feel very fortunate to be a part of this event and I congratulate all the young cadets who have opted to join the armed forces.”
  
  Rawat also announced that they will be launching the Super 50 program very soon. He said, “We will be helping the students who want to join the defence services by giving them free coaching for NDA and CDS. The 50 students will be those whose families’ annual income is less than Rs 3 lakh. It will enable the students who have the potential but are unable to follow their dreams.”
  
  Congratulating the parents of those who have opted for the forces, Chief of Army Staff Gen Bipin Rawat said, “All of you have a reason to feel proud of the choice that your children have made and I have to tell you that their contribution is immense. They are doing an extremely good job by serving the country. In the coming days, I am confident that people of Uttarakhand will continue lending their support especially when it comes to joining the armed forces and will sacrifice their lives if the need be.”
  
  Chief minister  , who was also present, said, “My father was also in the Army and I have a very special relationship with our defence services. Apart from the immense respect for all the soldiers, I am always looking for ways to do what I can for them especially the veterans. Any soldier wearing the armed forces uniform can come to me anytime for any work.”
