Madurai: A road show on export promotion through special economic zones in southern Tamil Nadu was organised in the city on Thursday. The show was organised by Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry at Madurai.

 Vinay Sharma, officiating chairman of Export Promotion Council for EOUs & SEZs, was the chief guest. In his address, he said that SEZ (Special Economic Zone) is the best platform to do business. 
 
 More than the subsidies or benefits offered in SEZ, businessmen at present look for ease of doing business and SEZ give that comfort, he said. He urged businessmen in the city to utilize SEZ for their enterprises.
 
 B Chandramohan, secretary, information technology department and chairman and managing director of ELCOT, in his special address said that Tamil Nadu government was promoting information technology on a large scale in the state. 
 
 He mentioned that Madurai had two ELCOT SEZ, one at Elanthaikulam and another at Vadapalanji. 
 
 Elanthaikulam SEZ is functioning well while construction works are going on at Vadapalanji. Lot of land is available for business at Vadapalanji and this SEZ will be ready in few months from now, he said.
 
 D Anandan, joint development commissioner, MEPZ SEZ, spoke on competitive advantages of exporting from special economic zones. 
 
 Shilpa Prabhakar Satish, executive vice chairperson of Industrial Guidance and Export Promotion Bureau, spoke on Single Window Clearance, through which businessmen can start business at ease and she elaborated how state government is promoting this single window clearance. VOC Port Trust chairman, I Jeyakumar explained the facilities available at Tuticorin port and how businessmen at SEZ could utilize them for their benefit. 
 
 Madurai district collector, K Veera Raghava Rao addressing the event narrated the specialties of Madurai and scope for Madurai jasmine.
 
 The technical session was addressed by CEOs of various private SEZs explaining their success stories. 
 
 There was also a question and answer session after the technical session. Entrepreneurs from Madurai and southern districts attended the road show.
 
 
