During the ongoing 8th   Olympic four plays were staged at various venues in Delhi.

  This Bundeli play poses a serious question on humanity that why caste, class and gender differences still exist in the 21st century? Directed by Swati Dubey, this play has a serious discourse which reached a point that created a boiling turbulence felt by many during the process of the play. The play was staged at Bahumukh.
 
  
  A scene from the play Agarbatti
 
  
  Directed by Swati Dubey created a boiling turbulence felt by many during the process of the play
 
 
 This Hindi play directed by M.K. Raina, focuses on the fact that how in today’s world, we claim that the nations have come closer to each other, however, in reality, the global convergence has also unleashed a strange trail of war, violence and up-rootedness, where the victor and the vanquished are caught in the same ritual of death. The play was staged at Sri Ram Centre.
 
  
    focuses how the global convergence has unleashed a strange trail of war, violence and up-rootedness
 
  
  The play is directed by M.K. Raina
 
 
 This non verbal, physical theatre based long-act play, portrays the relationship between humans and plastic, as it is, without commenting on the use of plastic or advising people whatsoever. Directed by Shrikant Prabhakar Bhide, the sense of transparency is seen being trapped in the music as well as visuals of the play. The play was staged at Kamani Auditorium.
 
  
  The Transparent Trap portrays the relationship between human and plastic
 
  
  The sense of transparency is seen being trapped in the music as well as visuals of the play
 
 
  This Polish play is set in 1820’s – Poland and  , which are under Russian occupation. Directed by Piotr Tomaszuk, the play depicts how Poles and Lithuanians are deprived of civil rights and are oppressed, imprisoned or sentenced to forced labour deep into   and  . The play was staged at Abhimanch.
 
  
  The play depicts how Poles and Lithuanians are deprived of civil rights and are oppressed
 
  
  This Polish play is set in 1820’s – Poland and Lithuania
 
 
  
 
