NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: Congress leader   Friday urged “like-minded parties” to sink their local differences for unity at the national level even as she said that “acche din” would prove to be the nemesis of Modi government like “India Shining” was for Atal Bihari Vajpayee.

 In what sounded like an elaboration of the political mission she has embarked on in recent weeks, Sonia Gandhi told the India Today Conclave that it was difficult for opposition parties to forge unity since they were locked in fights “at the ground level” – mentioning pressure that Congress faces against allying with rivals in states like West Bengal.
 
 “But if all of us think of the larger picture...if we feel and care for the country, we have to sink local differences,” she said, alleging that the country was being led by a “regressive vision” with “sustained threat” to social and personal freedoms.
 
 Sonia’s appeal came in the backdrop of a dinner she has called for opposition parties on March 13 and her informal conversations with opposition leaders. She made a similar plea to allies in a meeting of opposition parties on February 1, and days later told Congress MPs that she would take an initiative to forge opposition unity ahead of elections.
 
 "The main issue with   is they made huge fantastic promises. But what is being implemented? They sold such a positive picture -- we will give jobs, give you Rs 15 lakh. There is great disappointment. I am confident BJP's ‘achhe din’ will actually turn into ‘India Shining’ -- which brought us to power (in 2004)," she said.
 
 Amplifying what appeared a message for potential allies as well party workers, Sonia Gandhi said, "We are going to come back. We are not going to let them (BJP) come back to power."
 
 Targeting PM  , she argued that the ruling dispensation of resorting to lies to hide “uncomfortable reality” like unemployment. Sonia Gandhi said Congress was out-marketed by BJP in the 2014 elections and while corruption was an issue, it was exaggerated.
 
 She said humungous figures of loss were given by CAG in the 2G spectrum allocation case. “I think everyone now realises that it was highly exaggerated. The person in-charge has now been given a cushy job,” Gandhi said, in a reference to former CAG Vinod Rai.
 
 The Congress leader tore into Modi government alleging that country was being led by a “regressive vision” with “atmosphere of intimidation”.
 
 “Our country, our society, our freedom are now all under systematic and sustained threat. There is rewriting of history, falsifying facts and fanning prejudice and bigotry,” she said.
 
 She said “provocative statements” from the ruling camp were designed to intimidate people. “Freedom to think, marry according to ones wishes is under attack. Religious tensions are being fuelled, vigilante mobs have been let loose,” she charged.
 
 
