PUNE: Tanmay Sharma, a student of Army Public School Pune, is preparing for his standard  . But his preparation is largely dependent on online applications. 

 Tanmay says, “As an example, chapters are listed in the  , I can just strike off those chapters I know the answers I am confident about. This helps me identify those lessons which need more attention. I can also generate customized tests based on the chapters I choose. Also, each time I strike off a chapter, it boosts my confidence.”
 
  
 With a range of application based online preparation sites for  , students appearing for standard X and XII exams are transforming their last-minute preparation from paper to paperless. 
 
 Students are taking help of technology for their preparations as they get access to video modules, solved papers, question banks, mock tests, 24x7 helplines to clear doubts only at the click of a button. Most of these apps are free to download and cover syllabi of all state-level Boards, ICSE and CBSE.
 
 The apps help students in revising the model papers several times in a day. Also, the analysis and performance measuring tool help them gauge how best they are performing over a period of time. 
 
 Through these they can easily understand the matrix of a board paper after multiple sample papers available in these apps. “The test reports help them understand their areas of improvements and hence makes my studies focused,” Tanmay said.
 
 Rajshekar Ratrey, vice-president, educational content, Toppr.com, said, “Technology is as great a help in last minute revision as it is in overall preparation. Students can bookmark important topics and questions while practising and can revisit them later on a click of a button instead of going through tons of books and pages. They can refer to the topic of their choice and go through short concept notes and watch specific parts of the video lectures at their own pace. This saves time and makes revision unbelievably efficient.”
 
 Another user, Riya Bhikole of  , said, “Apps help me in streamlining my studies. It helps me prepare a calendar and my study plan to finish my lessons faster.”
 
 Also, apps have a wide range of study material, notes, sample papers, video library to understand difficult concepts and much more. Riya said, “I am especially looking at the visuals for chemistry and physics which are not easy to understand. Through visuals, I can easily recollect while writing the exam papers.”
 
 There is no debate regarding the usability and convenience the education app has bought to thousands of students across the country, Genext co-founder Ali Asgar Kagzi said.
 
 “Students become more interactive and active using these apps. They are tech savvy, know how an app works and educationists formulate the model content and subsequently worksheets with video libraries to help students in understanding each and every subject in depth,” Kagzi said. An app has the instant update of the contents. AI enabled apps make it easy for parents to monitor their children’s development too.
 
 
 
 
 The state education board has set up helplines for free counselling of students. The exams will be held in the nine divisions of the board including Pune, Mumbai, Nashik, Aurangabad, Kolhapur, Konkan, Nagpur, Amravati and Latur. It will not address queries like hall tickets, syllabus, exam centres and question papers. The counsellors will assist parents between 8am and 8pm. 
 
 
