Noida: The   has started work on a second   on the Dadri Road despite commuters expressing apprehension that it could lead to accidents on the stretch where vehicles move at around 80kmph.

 TOI had reported on Monday the Authority’s plans to construct the second U-turn near Sector 15A at a time regular travellers have said a similar structure built earlier posed safety hazards in low visibility during fog and at night and could lead to accidents.
 
 On Monday, an excavator could be seen uprooting the concrete of the footpath to make space for the 195-metre long U-turn. “The work started on Sunday. A U-turn will be made here within two-three months,” said an official of the contractor assigned to carry out the project.
 
 Those commuting between Delhi and Noida expressed fear that structures like U-turns created an obstruction for speeding vehicles because traffic tend to slow down near them.
 
 “Vehicles move at around 80kmph on the stretch. Disruption of traffic on such a road can be dangerous because of the hindrance they pose to the flow of vehicles. It’s a very bad idea,” said Mithilesh Sharma, a Delhi resident who commutes to his office in Greater Noida.
 
 The possibility of accidents could be compounded by the fact that the Authority plans to remove red lights on the stretch once the U-turn becomes functional.
 
 Sandeep Chandra, the in-charge of Noida’s traffic cell, said: “This will help save time lost on red lights.”
 
 Some commuters said the U-turn would add to their traffic woes. They said the structure would help only the residents of Sector 15A, where it was being built, to get onto the main road. 
 
 “It will stall traffic near the DND loop where commuters get down. During peak hours, it is going to create the maximum trouble. Most travellers do not use indicators before turning. This will also lead to accidents,” said Simmi Sharma, a resident of Sector 93 who travels to Delhi’s Mayur Vihar.
 
 Officials overseeing the work on the U-turn said trees along the stretch would have to be uprooted if the road was to be widened to make up for the slow traffic near the U-turn. They added that there was no such plan as of now.
 
 Alok  , the Authority CEO, directed to the traffic cell when asked about the second U-turn.
 
 “We will provide barriers on the DND loop so that the traffic is channelised and does not merge with the vehicles travelling towards the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway,” said Chandra.
 
 
