GANDHINAGAR: After Ahmed Patel’s dramatic win in the high-stakes Gujarat Rajya Sabha (RS) elections last August, the stage seems set for another round of fiery  . After   and   filed their nominations, a third BJP candidate, former state minister Kiritsinh Rana, filed his nomination on Monday fuelling speculation of yet another cut-throat election to the Upper House. 

  
  A Congress-supported independent candidate, P K Valera (retd IAS) also filed his nomination papers on Monday. Earlier former Union railway minister Naran Rathwa and party spokesperson Ami Yagnik filed their nominations for two seats for the Congress. 
 
  
  Elections to four RS seats will be held on March 23. In the past, all these four seats were held by BJP candidates. However, following the BJP’s strength dwindling to 99 in the state assembly, RS MP from Gujarat Arun Jaitley moved to UP while Shankar Vegad wrote a letter saying he does not wish to contest the elections.
 
  
  With the BJP having 99 seats and Congress has 80 (with support of two independent candidates) in the current house, it was thought both parties will comfortably send two members apiece to the Rajya Sabha from Gujarat.
 
 However, with a third candidate filing his nomination, BJP has sent out a signal that the party is set to attempt an encore of the last  , where it will try and win votes from Congress MLAs to wrest a third RS seat. 
 
  
  The Congress said it was prepared to again move its MLAs out of the state for a while, to keep its flock together and thwart poaching attempts by the BJP. In the last RS election, Congress flew its 44 MLAs to Bangalore in the run up to the polls, to stymie more defections to the BJP. 
 
 Bharatsinh Solanki, Gujarat Congress president, said: “BJP can go to any extent and adopt any unethical practice. Hence, if required, we will repeat the action taken ahead of last year’s Rajya Sabha elections.”
 
 BJP leaders said the party decided to field Rana as its third candidate as it sniffed a chance at breaking votes from a ‘divided’ Congress. 
 
 Deputy CM Nitin Patel said, “Congress candidates are facing opposition within the party and it has backed a third nomination of an independent, which shows its mismanagement. Sensing a political opportunity, we decided to issue a mandate for the third candidate, Kiritsinh Rana. In the last Rajya Sabha election, many Congress MLAs voted for the BJP and there is a chance that we can win the third seat.”
 
 For the four RS seats, each candidate needs 37 votes to win. BJP has 99 MLAs and the Congress has 80. With 74 votes sealing two seats, BJP has 25 additional first preference votes. If it gets 12 extra votes through cross voting, its third candidate can win. However, such Congress MLAs will face disqualification if the party takes action for ignoring its mandate.
 
 Sources said that if the BJP manages to ensure 15 Congress MLAs remain absent on voting day, it could snatch the third seat. BJP is also trying to get the candidatures of Naran Rathwa and Valera cancelled on technical grounds. In that event, the BJP’s third candidate will be declared the winner, so the saffron party is exploring all options.Controversy over Rathwa’s form
 
 Naran Rathwa, the former Union minister, did not have a no-dues certificate from the Parliament secretariat, which is mandatory for any ex-MP contesting the Rajya Sabha elections. Rathwa somehow found an old certificate, but that may be questioned by the BJP, as the norms stipulate that the certificate must be recent. If the returning officer rejects Rathwa’s form, he will miss the chance to be an RS member. Bharatsinh Solanki, Gujarat Congress president said, “The BJP always tries to raise technical issues and uses the politics of horse trading, but it will face defeat again, like in the last Rajya Sabha elections.”
 
 Rajiv Shukla controversy
 
 On Monday morning, senior Congress leader Rajiv Shukla called Gujarat leaders to tell them that he was asked by the party to file his nomination instead of Naran Rathwa and he was coming to Gandhinagar before 3.00pm. However, due to runway maintenance, there was no flight to Ahmedabad before 4.00pm, so the Congress decided to go ahead with Rathwa’s nomination.
 
 Congress backs former IAS officer Valera as independent candidate
 
  
  After the controversy over Rathwa’s candidature, the Congress decided to back former IAS officer and senior scheduled castes leader P K Valera, as an independent candidate, unlike the BJP, which issued a party mandate for a third candidate. If Rathwa’s form is rejected, Congress will tell its MLAs to vote for Valera. The BJP has decided to challenge Valera’s candidature, claiming that an independent cannot contest elections to the Rajya Sabha.
 
 Opposition to Rathwa, Yagnik in Congress
 
 Soon after Rathwa and Yagnik’s candidatures were announced, opposition to both surfaced in the Congress. A senior Congress leader from the Patidar community, who had staked a claim for an RS seat, said, “It was expected that the party would give one ticket to the Patidar community. The party had set a criterion, that those who had lost Lok Sabha or assembly elections would not be considered. Rathwa had lost his election. Ami Yagnik, who joined the party just a few years ago and has no mass following, has been given the ticket. There are several loyal women workers who have mass followings, but they were not considered. The party could have given one ticket to a Patidar, OBC or scheduled caste leader.”
 
 Gujarat Mahila Congress president resigns
 
 Sonal Patel, the president of the Gujarat Mahila Congress, resigned on Monday, after the party chose Ami Yagnik for the Rajya Sabha seat and rejected her candidature. Patel sent her resignation to Gujarat Congress president Bharatsinh Solanki. Patel said, “I resigned because I was upset at the party’s decision to ignore my contribution and that of all the women who have been working for many years.”
 
 
