MUMBAI: The   (ATS) on Friday claimed to have busted a gang of “seven CPI (Maoist) members” with the arrest of the gang leader from near   railway station.

 Police claimed it was a major breakthrough as the “gang members” were indoctrinating youths in slum pockets and collecting finances for the  , a unit allegedly dedicated to expanding its base. A huge pile of ‘Naxal’ literature has been traced from their homes, ATS sources said. Police clarified there was no seizure of arms.
 
 The “gang” was led by   alias Krishna Lingaya alias Venugopal (40) for whom the Telangana government has declared a cash reward of Rs 8 lakh, ATS sources said. Venugopal, who has been booked under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), 2008, has been remanded in police custody till January 17, said DCP (ATS) Mohan Dahikar.
 
 Telangana intelligence officials said Venugopal had the rank of district committee secretary (DCS) in CPI (Maoist) and was underground for 20 years. He was active in trade unions in Mumbai to spread the “pro-Maoist ideology.” As he was given DCS rank, he was carrying a reward of Rs8 lakh. Top leaders carry a reward of Rs25 lakh, they said. An official said, “He is not into jungle warfare and is more into urban Maoist activism and active in Maharashtra.” ATS officials said they laid a trap after a tip-off that Venugopal was to come to Kalyan station to meet aides. He was detained and after interrogation revealed he and his colleagues were from   and   and working for CPI (Maoist). Based on this, searches were carried out and other “gang members” arrested, officials said.
 
 TIMES VIEW: We hope that the ATS has not arrested the people from Mumbai merely on the basis of their having been found in possession of Maoist literature. That would be as ridiculous as suggesting everybody who has Hitler’s autobiographical Mein Kampf on his or her bookshelf must be a neo-Nazi. Only if police have other solid evidence that these people are involved in the Maoist insurgency — and are not merely curious about it or its ideology — would the arrests be justified.
 
