NEW DELHI: The   on Thursday assured over 43,000 home-buyers who have invested in real estate major   various   that their money is safe and their interests would be protected though the company is facing insolvency proceedings. 

 A bench of Justices Arun Mishra and U U Lalit, which is hearing a batch of petitions filed by hundreds of buyers and supervising the construction work in various projects, told the anxious investors that the court would safeguard their interests and if needed the property of the company and its promoters would be auctioned to refund their money.
 
 “Your money is secure. You are now before the court and we will sell their property to get your invested money,” the bench said. 
 
 The bench also asked the company to give details of Rs 2766 crore which was transferred to other firms. The court, which is also examining the allegations of diversion of home-buyers’ money by the company, directed it to give details of transactions, including the name of the firms which were given money and their promoters and directors within a week.
 
 The court said the company should reveal as to when and why such a huge amount was transferred. The bench said that the company would be allowed to rope in new developers to complete the housing projects only after the court was satisfied. 
 
 The real estate giant is involved in construction of various housing projects, including 170 towers in Noida and Greater Noida. The company’s bank accounts have been seized and it has been restrained from disposing any of its properties. The insolvency proceedings was initiated by Bank of Baroda after the company failed to repay the loan.
 
 Advocate Gaurav Bhatia, appearing for the company, told the bench that lifts had been installed in housing projects in which possession had been given to buyers and it was taking all steps to ensure safety and security of those who were residing there.
 
 The bench was hearing a batch of petitions filed by hundreds of home-buyers who approached the court to protect their investment as Amrapali after National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) initiated Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process and the tribunal restrained the company from transferring or disposing of its assets on a plea of Bank of Baroda which had given loan to the company. 
 
 
