AHMEDABAD: While   crime officials questioned accused Ketan Patel of Surat at Sabarmati Central Jail in Ahmedabad, another CID crime team raided a few places near Nadiad and   to recover the bag which allegedly contained Rs 1.32 crore and was delivered by a Surat based man to Amreli SP Jagdish Patel.

 “We have nearly tracked the bag, and very soon will recover it. We also have recorded the statement of the angadia firm employee, who had delivered the bag to Jagdish Patel,” said a senior CID crime official.
 
 A team comprising senior CID officials questioned Ketan about the bag of cash that was supposedly delivered to the Amreli SP by an angadia employee. “We also questioned him about the trail of the money that changed hands after Shailesh Bhatt was allegedly kidnapped by inspector  ,” said a CID crime source.
 
 However, Ketan repeatedly denied his involvement in the case and told us that he doesn’t know anything about the cash or   transactions. “ When we confronted him with call records he bluntly said I don’t remember. We will question him again on Sunday,” said a senior CID crime official.
 
 Meanwhile, as the probe moved forward, CID officials found some vital clues about alleged involvement of former BJP MLA from Dhari, Nalin Kotadiya, in the case.
 
 CID officials said Ketan Patel had met Nalin Kotadiya in Surat on February 9. “Later on, February 11, Shailesh Bhatt was allegedly kidnapped from Ahmedabad and confined to Keshav Farm. Bhatt has alleged that inspector Anant Patel had extorted 200 bitcoins worth Rs 12 crore from him and also asked him to transfer another Rs 32 crore through angadia. But the later cash transaction could not take place,” said a CID crime official. During that period, a series of phone calls were exchanged between the accused inspector Anant Patel, Jagdish Patel, Ketan Patel and Nalin Kotadiya. However the phones calls between them suddenly stopped after February 13. “We have information that new numbers were used to communicate,” said a CID crime official. 
 
 He added that it has also come to light that approximately Rs 40 lakh is with the absconding accused, some of who are low rank police personnel. “We are searching for them too” said a CID crime official.
 
 
