NAGPUR: Schools in   under the aegis of   (IESA) will take a final call on boycotting the registration process during a crucial meet scheduled for this Saturday in city. State level executive members of   will be in Nagpur to take a consensus call on the direction to take. Coincidentally, Saturday is also the deadline given by state government to schools for completing the registration process on the online   portal. 

 Nana Satpute, member of IESA, said, “RTE registration process will be one of the major things to be discussed in our Saturday meet, though the original agenda related to our general meeting. Problem is that the government has not paid heed to our multiple memorandums, our street protests and nothing has come out of meeting various stakeholders.” Already many members of IESA have firmed up plans to boycott RTE registrations and it is very likely that schools from Vidarbha will follow suit. “Private unaided schools are choked for funds because we have not been receiving our reimbursements properly from the state government. If you take out 25% of fee collections how will we survive?” said  . 
 
 Another school trustee who is part of IESA, said, “Our participation in RTE process is more of a mandatory rule. Last payout (fee reimbursement) was just 2% of dues of 2014-15 and before that it was 75% of 2013-14. These are the only two payouts.” 
 
 Satupute said the government must keep its side of the bargain to ensure that RTE process flows smoothly. “We have been doing our part religiously. Whatever admissions had to be done under RTE were completed by us without any delay. All the government has to do is to check our bills and clear it but it has failed to do so,” said Satpute. He acknowledged the challenges faced to mobilize all school trustees again and again for the same reason. “We have to take a strong and decisive step now. It is not possible to hold protest rallies time and again because everyone has their priorities. On Saturday, we will take a collective call on the boycott issue,” said Satupute. 
 
 Rajendra Dayma, vice-president of IESA, along with other executive members will be flying down to Nagpur for the meet. Dayma, said, “It has to be a collective call and we will make sure that our valid demands are put before the government.” 
 
 
