NEW DELHI: The   was thrown into its biggest-ever crisis on Friday when its 
  revolted against Chief Justice of India (CJI)   and launched an unprecedented public attack against his allegedly arbitrary way of assigning important cases to benches headed by junior SC judges, ignoring senior ones.

 
 
 Justices Jasti Chelameswar,  , Madan B Lokur and  , who have been restive over cases of "far reaching consequences for the nation" being "assigned selectively" to "benches of preference", held a press conference on the lawns of Chelameswar's bungalow on Tughlaq Road, barely 200 metres from the CJI's residence on Krishna Menon Marg.
 
  
  
 
 They alleged serious infirmities and irregularities in administration and assigning of cases for hearing to benches in the SC. 
 
 The judges, who have traditionally been camera-shy, said they were forced to hold the briefing, a first, 
  pointing out mistakes had gone unanswered. 
 
  
  
 
 "We tried to persuade the CJI that certain things are not in order. Unfortunately, the efforts failed. We are convinced that unless corrective steps are taken immediately, the judiciary will lose its strong and independent tag, an essential hallmark of a vibrant democracy," Chelameswar said, taking the lead in the PC.
 
 
 
 
 
 Referring to the letter sent to the CJI signed by the four judges, he said, "We wanted a particular thing in a particular manner. That thing was done, but that raised further questions about the integrity of the institution. Today also, we went to meet the CJI and pointed out that a particular thing was not in order and requested him to rectify it. Despite senior-most colleagues requesting him to correct the anomaly, he was not amenable to correct it."
 
 
 
 
 
 The matter immediately took on a political dimension with Congress president   seizing upon the development to demand a probe into Loya's death. CPI leader D Raja called on Chelameswar, who had earlier taken issue with two previous CJIs — Justices T S Thakur and J S Khehar.
 
 Senior advocate   was present at the PC and wanted to know what was happening inside the sanctum sanctorum of the apex court, but journalists shouted her down and prevented her from asking questions, saying the PC was meant for media and not advocates.
 
 Chelameswar said he and his colleagues were moved only by their concern for the institution. "No wise man should say after 20 years that Justices Chelameswar, Gogoi, Lokur and Joseph had sold their souls and did not do anything about rectifying the problems. That is why this press conference," he said.
 
 Gogoi added, "It is about assignment of a case. Whatever Justice Chelameswar said is enough. It is a discharge of debt to the nation and we have done it."
 
 Curiously, the letter written by the four judges was undated and unsigned. It referred to the finalisation of memorandum of procedure (MoP) for appointment of judges, as directed by a constitution bench in which Chelameswar had recorded the lone dissent saying the flawed collegium system should be replaced by a National Judicial Appointments Commission.
 
 They said the MoP issue had been dealt consistently by constitution benches, first by a five-judge bench which struck down NJAC by a majority, and later by a seven-judge bench while deciding the case relating to errant Calcutta HC judge C S Karnan. 
 
 They expressed surprise that the CJI heading a bench of a smaller number of judges took up the MoP issue in a petition filed by advocate R P Luthra and questioned the CJI-led bench's wisdom and propriety in passing an order on October 27 last year to the effect that "there should be no further delay in finalising the MoP in larger public interest".
 
 "The above development must be viewed with serious concern. The CJI is duty bound to rectify the situation and take appropriate remedial measures after a full discussion with other members of the collegium and at a later stage, if required, with the other judges of the SC," the letter said.
 
 "Once the issue arising from the October 27, 2017 order in the R P Luthra case is adequately addressed by you (the CJI) and if it becomes necessary, we will apprise you specifically of the other judicial orders passed by this court which would require to be similarly dealt with," they said in the letter. In the PC, the judges did not specify the incorrect orders passed in other cases.
 
 The CJI's decision not to reply to their letter and his refusal to delete the petition seeking probe into trial judge B M Loya's death posted before a bench of Justices Arun Mishra and M M Shantanagoudar appeared to have triggered the rebellion in the ranks.
 
 
