NEW DELHI: The government opened up commercial   to the private sector on Tuesday, removing one of the last vestiges of the licence-quota raj of the 1970s.

 
 The   approved the methodology for auctioning coal mines and blocks to private miners, unshackling the sector from the nationalisation of 1973. The opening up of commercial coal mining to the private sector is the most ambitious coal sector reform since the nationalisation of this sector, coal and railway minister   said while briefing the media on the decision taken at the   meeting.
 
 Currently only state-run  , the world's largest miner, is allowed to sell coal to end-users. Private coal mining is allowed only for captive mining with restricted end-use, such as generating power or making cement and steel. Coal secretary Susheel Kumar told TOI the number of mines and the time frame for auctions are likely to be finalised in a month.
 
 The methodology for auctioning mines/blocks for commercial mining envisages ascending forward auction, unlike the reverse auction method adopted for auctioning blocks for the power sector.
 
 Under the forward auction, blocks will be awarded to bidders offering to pay the highest amount in terms of rupee per tonne of coal to the state where the mines are located. There will be an annual adjustment of this amount in accordance with coal WPI.
 
 Successful bidders will be free to sell coal to any industrial consumer or unit without restriction on utilisation, such as for generating power or making steel and cement etc. They will also get flexibility in planning their production schedules for ease of doing business.
 
 The move will also increase supply in the market and help achieve the target of producing a billion tonne of coal by 2022. India currently produces about half of this quantity.
 
 Opening up of commercial coal mining without marketing restrictions is expected to attract global miners with bestin-class technology and investments, which will speed up opening of new mines and create direct and indirect jobs.
 
 "It will increase competitiveness and allow the use of best possible technology into the sector. The higher investment will create direct and indirect employment in coalbearing areas, especially in the mining sector, and will have an impact on the economic development of these regions," the minister said.
 
 The government had built in the enabling provisions for opening up coal mining in the Coal Mines (Special Provisions) Act brought in for auctioning and allotting the 204 coal blocks, the allotments of which were axed by the SC in 2014.
 
