PANAJI: Opposition to the Greater   Planning and Development Authority (GPPDA) is building up in  , as hordes of protesters from outlying villages of the planning area joined St Cruz residents in support demanding its rejection. 

 "PDA amkam naka" was the dominant cry from protesters, as the morcha hosted by St Cruz villagers wended one km of its way to national highway 17 for a human chain led by local MLA, Tony Fernandes. It culminated in a public meeting back at the church amidst a show of support by neighbouring villagers and tendering of his resignation by Fernandes from the GPDDA membership.
 
  "People from four sides have assembled here with a demand 'Amkam PDA naka'. I am endorsing it and saying our village doesn't need a PDA," Fernandes told the crowd. Further, he recalled his memorable association along with former MLA Victoria 'Mami' Fernandes in the previous successful PDA agitation of 2005. Expressing his gratitude at being elected by people, he said he wouldn't betray them. "I am for development, but here they have made mincemeat (of the village)," he lamented. 
 
 Replying to a query about the way forward, he said denotifying St Cruz from the PDA was possible through an amendment and he would fight for its exclusion tooth-and-nail. Fernandes handed over his resignation to parish priest, Fr Alexander Pereira.
 
  Earlier, holding lit candles and placards, and shouting slogans, the protesters, including youth, men, women and elderly reached the highway and lined the highway's western side near Merces-St Cruz junction. Led by Fernandes, they shouted slogans for some time before returning in a single file to the church. 
 
  The agitation was meant to demand St Cruz-centric exclusion from the PDA, but villagers from Mandur-Azossim, Merces, Chimbel, Curca, Bambolim and Talaulim while expressing their support to the agitation, also sought help, too. 
 
 Curca-Bambolim-Talaulim sarpanch Maria da Cunha said that she also hoped for support in their cause. "We had written to the government on November 14, 2017, and also forwarded a gram sabha resolution, opposing the PDA but did not receive any response," she lamented.
 
 Rudolf Fernandes, a local , said that the crowd indicated that the PDA was being opposed. Her mother, too, also spoke urging people to be united. Arturo D'Souza announced that a month's deadline would be given for the government to denotify the PDA inclusion.
 
 
