 : In what could give a big thrust to the growing IT sector in the city, the Visakhapatnam Urban Development Authority (Vuda) plans to develop an Information Technology City in its 20-acre land at  . 

 Vuda inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the state government during the recently-concluded CII-Partnership Summit 2018 to facilitate the project. Proposed to be developed under the public-private partnership (PPP) model, Vuda will constitute a special purpose vehicle (SPV) to execute the IT City project. Andhra Pradesh Urban Infrastructure Asset Management Ltd (APUIAML), a joint venture between the state government and IL&FS, will handhold Vuda throughout the entire trajectory of the project.
 
 Besides the institutional area, the IT city will also get commercial and recreational space to cater to the needs of the residents of Madhurawada area, which otherwise has been deprived of good social infrastructure despite the high-rises coming up in the area.
 
 While Vuda officials estimate that there is a ready demand for around 5 lakh square feet IT space, the state government anticipates that the demand will be beyond 1 million sq ft.
 
 Vuda vice-chairman P   said their focus will be on creating a major institutional area as part of the project. “It will also get supporting social infrastructure to include hotels, malls and multiplexes. APUIAML will handhold Vuda from SPV creation and project formulation to tender documentation, construction management and related activities,” said Basanth Kumar.
 
 He added that the SPV constitution may take another two-three weeks, including seeking the approval of the Vuda board. “Other than the initial equity, Vuda will leverage land monetisation to raise funds for the project, and will also have 100 per cent shareholding in the SPV. We will start the project with one IT tower to gauge the demand and we will proceed from there based on the outcome. The land available for the project is sufficient to create more than 2 million square feet built-up area in the future, if the need arises,” added Basanth Kumar.
 
 According to the Vuda vice-chairman, about 40 IT companies have already evinced their interest to take up space in the project. “The MoU is aimed at timely completion of the project with the support of the state government. The supporting social infrastructure proposed as part of the IT City project will also be helpful to residents of Madhurawada as well as residents of Vuda’s Harita project in the vicinity,” he said.
 
 
