HYDERABAD: Nine months after the   land scam surfaced and the   prohibited property registrations in   and other places near  , the revenue department has opened the doors for property registrations in about 36 acres in survey no (S NO) 79 of Hafeezpet a few days ago. 

 Sources claimed that some politicians and few bureaucrats have interests in the prime property and that this led to the move of the state government to denotify these properties from the prohibited list. 
 
 Following the Miyapur land scam that broke out in May last year, the state government in July last year decided to claim ownership of all Jagir land and banned property registrations, including in about 800 acres in S Nos 77, 78, 79 and 80 of Hafeezpet. 
 
 
 
 
 On January 29, 2018, acting on the request of  , one of the claimants of the land in survey no 79, RR district collector M Raghunandan Rao wrote to the inspector general of registration and stamps department on February 8 denotifying the 36 acres from Prohibitory Register and paved the way for land transactions, including registration of said properties.
 
 “The managing director of Vasantha Green Projects submitted the representation to the collector and the matter went to the registration and stamps department, CCLA and revenue department after which the collector got the nod for denotifying the 36 acres from the prohibited list. Normally, such a process takes months, but in this case, happened in 10 days,” sources said, indicating sanction for this came from highest quarters.
 
 In his denotifying order, the RR collector said “one Basheeruddin Farooqui had filed a declaration of surplus land to an extent of 1,32,546 sq metres in S No 79 and is in possession of 1,29, 308 sq metres. Between 2006 and 2008, it was regularized under Urban Land Ceiling Act and endorsements were issued.”
 
 Officials said several thousands of acres in villages such as Hafeezpet, Hydernagar and Miyapur are Paigahs and Jagir land. The state government says as per Telangana (Abolition of Jagirs) Regulation Act, the land in three villages is vested with the government. But the state government reportedly lost its claim over them.
 
 After the state government banned registrations in all Jagir land, including S No 77 to 80 in Hafeezpet on July 17, 2017, under section 22 A (2) of the Registration Act, 1908, several firms such as Savera Constructions, Mahendra Life Spaces and individuals like Boorgupally Siva Ramakrishna had moved court challenging it. Several colonies which purchased plots from realtors in Hafeezpet and Hydernagar several years ago like Vasanth Nagar, CBCID Colony, IDPL Colony, NRSA Colony and Gokul Plots, have been demanding that the state lift the ban.
 
