Hubballi: The wholesale markets in the city were shifted to the   yard in 2016 as the markets were causing inconvenience to nearby residents. 

 The traders at the old markets in Akki Honda,   and adjacent areas were asked to vacate and relocate their shops to the APMC yard. The main rationale behind relocating the shops was reducing   jams in the heart of the city, where these markets were situated. 
 
 The residents were also facing problems like parking problems and noise pollution. Even after the markets were shifted, the residents are still facing traffic problems and the streets continue to be crowded.
 
 The residents say trucks load and unload goods irrespective of time and traders are not bothered about causing inconvenience to the residents. “There is not a single day without heavy crowd in these areas. We cannot do our work peacefully as there is always traffic chaos on the streets,” said a resident.
 
 “Even after the wholesale markets were shifted to the APMC yard, trucks are seen loading and unloading goods most of the times in these areas. The mess on the roads is still visible and is causing inconvenience to us to travel or park our vehicles,” says Gauri Akki, a resident of Sheelvant Oni.
 
 “There is never a day in which we can sleep peacefully as there is always some noise here. Moreover it is very disturbing during our exams,” says Akshata K a resident of Bhoospet.
 
 “We can never sit peacefully in the shop as these transport vehicles have some or the other reasons to get in daily and create unnecessary chaos,” says Sai Angadi, a shopkeeper in the area. 
 
 Officials respond
 
 “I recently got transferred here. I am yet to go through this issue. I will check and do something about it soon,” said Shivprakash Naik, police inspector South Traffic,  .
 
 M V Nagnur, ACP traffic, Hubballi-Dharwad told TOI, “We are just letting the trucks to go through the area during night. Some shops couldn’t be relocated and this is the reason for the traffic chaos. We are currently busy with election work and we will address the noise and traffic problems soon.”
 
 
