KOLKATA: Two popular Buddhist temples in communist China have teamed up to raise funds to help revive a monastery in the city, with the Chinese consulate here acting as the facilitator.

 The first step of the restoration of the Hiuen Tsang monastery at Chowbaga has already happened. To celebrate the occasion, monks from China’s Lingyin temple in the Zhejiang province flew down to the city to perform the symbolic tea ceremony, marking a new era of bonding between the two countries.
 
 This is the first time that temples from China and the Chinese consulate, representative of the communist People’s Republic of China (PRC), are helping to raise funds for a religious cause in a city in India, something that touches so many chords among the city’s Chinese residents.
 
 Despite communism, China today is far more relaxed about practising religion and allows its people to follow their faith as a matter of personal choice. 
 
 “In Kolkata, we are trying to promote friendship and bonding in every way. Culture is the mainstay of this kind of bonding and you cannot dissociate religion from culture. So, when the Chinese community here drew my attention towards the poor condition of their monastery, we thought of becoming the bridge and linked it up with monasteries in China,” said Chinese consul general Ma Zhanwu.
 
 It all started when the chief monk of   temple, Guangquan, paid a visit to the city in September 2016 for a photography project of famous Buddhist sites in India. Consul general Ma brought him to the Hiuen Tsang monastery and he got to know that a restoration was immediately needed. The local Chinese turned out in large numbers and told him about the Chinese founder of the monastery. He went back promising to raise funds. Interestingly, almost around the same time, the caretaker of the Hiuen Tsang monastery, nun Hui Rong, got in touch with the chief nun of the Ten Thousand Buddha Pagoda, a temple in Meizhou, Guangdong, about the plight of her temple. The two chief nuns are disciples of the monk who established the Hiuen Tsang temple. Naturally, the Ten Thousand Buddha Pagoda also decided to spread the word for the cause to raise funds.
 
 With the first instalment of the funds that poured in, the main congregation hall on the first floor of the temple, which was in poor shape, has been restored. A symbolic foundation stone has also been laid to mark the beginning of the long-drawn restoration. A businessman from China, who is a devotee of the Lingyin Temple and did not wish to be named, came for the programme on Wednesday and singlehandedly donated Rs 28 lakh for the cause, the consul general said. Asked about how much money poured in for the first instalment, the consulate refused to give a specific answer.
 
 To consecrate the new hall and to spread harmony among the local Chinese community, monks from the Lingyin Temple performed the tea ceremony followed by the incense-burning ceremony, which is symbolic of piety and brotherhood. Martial artists also performed traditional arts like kung fu. “This is a rare feeling, a feeling of being wanted by the country of our roots,” said tannery owner  . “The Hiuen Tsang monastery is a central part of our sentiments. It had structurally become weak and needed immediate repair. This was a godsend,” said  , a resident of Tangra.
 
 
