HYDERABAD: After experimenting in schools, authorities will introduce rationalisation scheme in degree colleges with the   ( ) deciding to bridge the gap between the number of colleges and number of students seeking admission in the state.

 In its perspective plan submitted to the All India Council of Higher Education, the TSCHE has urged the council to not approve the establishment of any new colleges. It also decided to not issue notification for setting up of new private degree colleges and new courses from the academic year 2018-19.
 
 As part of the rationalisation scheme, the TSCHE will either merge degree colleges or ask management to shut institutions that had poor admissions during the academic year 2017-18. "The decision was taken after holding series of meetings with stakeholders including state university vice-chancellor. The number of degree colleges is more than required in Telangana. Therefore, there is a need to enhance the quality of   by rationalising these colleges," said a senior official from TSCHE. 
 
 
  
 
 The rationalisation scheme is expected to axe over 300-degree colleges and thousands of courses in the state.
 
 Last year, despite conducting four counselling phases and spot admissions, as many as 2.14 lakh seats in various degree colleges were left vacant. According to the government officials and college managements, 90 percent of the seats, especially available in streams such as social science and life science departments, remain vacant every year. Courses such as biochemistry, biotechnology and bachelors of Science in statistics had found least number of takers.
 
 Private college managements have opposed the government's decision as they demand that rationalisation must only be conducted in government degree colleges. "Last year, there were 51 colleges which registered zero admissions and 186 colleges which registered less than 35 percent admissions. Of all the colleges that registered poor admissions, many were government degree colleges," said  , general secretary of Telangana Private Degree and  .
 
 He further added that the association doesn't object closure of colleges with zero admissions but has a strong objection to implementing rationalisation scheme on private degree colleges.
 
 Apart from this, the TSCHE has also decided to set up five incubation centres, an institution of best research awards and introduction of quality improvement programs for students.
 
 It may be noted that the TSCHE officials on January 11 submitted a report on the status of reforms being implemented in the higher educational institutions across the state to Telangana Governor ESL Narasimhan at the Raj Bhavan.
 
 
