AMRITSAR: The Punjab government has announced to include a chapter on heroic General Sham Singh   in the state school education board’s textbooks along with a series of other initiatives to promote the historic Attari village on the India-Pakistan border. The government has also decided to rechristen the Attari railway station and India’s first Integrated Check Post (ICP) at Attari after the great Sikh soldier.

 These announcements were made by Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh after paying floral tributes at the India Gate memorial to the Sikh warrior on his 172nd martyrdom day on Saturday.
 
 He recalled the contribution of Attariwala to Punjab’s independence, and paid an ode to the gallant martyr for his role in the first Anglo-Sikh War at Sabraon on February 10, 1846. Amarinder also paid respects at the samadhi (cenotaph) of Attariwala in his native village Attari and sanctioned Rs 10 lakh for development of sports infrastructure and a museum in his memory.
 
 He also unveiled a Vijyanta Tank dedicated by the Indian Army in the memory of General Attariwala. He said that a MIG aircraft would also be stationed in the village. Sham Singh Attariwala Trust had urged Amarinder to expedite the process of stationing of a MIG aircraft.
 
 Talking to newspersons, the CM said his government had directed the Punjab School Education Board to incorporate a chapter on the bravery of Gen Attariwala, and had also requested the National Council for Educational Research and Training to include a chapter in its curriculum on the Sikh warrior.
 
 He said he had also taken up the issues of renaming of Attari railway station and ICP with concerned ministries. “I have also requested to the ministry of defence to ask the Western Command to hold an ex-serviceman rally every year at Attari and urged the minister of communications to make Attari village a Wi-Fi zone,” he said.
 
 Another food street in Amritsar
 
 Chief minister Amarinder Singh has suggested setting up a food street, on the lines of Lahore, at Town Hall in Amritsar. A similar food street named ‘Urban Haat’, which was earlier inaugurated by former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal, is yet to start functioning. “With Amrtisar being a major tourist destination, a food street of Punjab’s cuisine will be a major added attraction for the visitors,” he said, while directing tourism and culture minister Navjot Singh Sidhu to work on the project.
 
 Sidhu assured to commence work on priority and announced that the same would be come up in the next six months. Sukhbir, after his 2012 Pakistan visit, had announced to set up a Lahore-like food street in Amritsar and inaugurated it on May 15, 2016. However, Punjab’s first night food street failed to attract customers following which the administration had decided to give it to a private company.
 
 ‘Look forward to meeting Trudeau’
 
 Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has stated that Canadian Prime Minister   has clearly sent out a strong signal within his party and government that he would not allow his country’s soil to be used for any secessionist activities. The CM observed on Saturday that ahead of Trudeau’s visit, the statement of two Sikh ministers of the Canadian cabinet disassociating themselves from Khalistan movement had paved way for meaningful discussions with the Canada PM to strengthen ties with Punjab.
 
 “I will be happy to welcome Trudeau and look forward to a meaningful talks with him in view of the recent statements of his two Sikh ministers,” said Amarinder while talking to mediapersons. He pointed out that Trudeau’s cabinet’s two Sikh ministers had categorically disassociated themselves from the   separatists.
 
 In the recent past, Canadian defence minister Harjit Singh Sajjan and infrastructure minister Amarjeet Sohi had issued statements wherein they had clearly distanced themselves from the Khalistani elements.
 
 According to media reports, both Sajjan and Sohi had stated “they neither sympathize with nor espouse the Sikh nationalist movement, which is bent on creating a separate country called Khalistan in India’s Punjab region.”
 
 In reply to another question on farm loan waiver, which was also Congress’s pre-poll promise, the chief minister said he was committed to completing the process for 10.25 lakh farmers by November.
 
 
