NEW DELHI: A   has   a   in an   after observing that   on the part of the   who had   in the incident could not be ruled out. People usually blame the biker in case of an accident, but it can’t always be attributed to rash or negligent driving, the court pointed out. 

 “The pedestrian crossings are popularly termed as zebra crossings. Therefore, there remains the scope of a situation where an accident takes place on account of some fault or negligence on the part of a pedestrian while crossing the road from some different place than the zebra crossing,” said special judge Pulastya Pramachala.
 
 The court was hearing an appeal by the biker who was awarded four months’ simple imprisonment and slapped with a fine of Rs 10,000 for causing death by negligence and rash driving on April 17, 2018. Nathu Singh was crossing a road near Pandav Nagar on December 4, 2006 when the appellant had allegedly hit him.
 
 The appellant argued that there was not even an iota of evidence against him and the trial court had failed to appreciate the merit and facts of the case before holding him guilty in “a very rash, wrong and mechanical way”. It was said that family members of the deceased were the only witnesses, though the spot was a very busy road. 
 
 The prosecution claimed that the accused had admitted his crime and rash driving and negligence had been corroborated by four public witnesses, with one of them identifying the appellant as the biker. 
 
 The court, however, wondered how the witness could see the face of the biker so clearly when she was walking in front of the victim. It also pointed out that the other witnesses failed to identify the appellant. 
 
 While talking about rashness or negligence of any person, the court said, it is important to know the duty that is breached by the person in order to call him negligent. “As per Rule 11 of Rules of the Road Regulations 1989, pedestrians have the right of way at uncontrolled pedestrian crossings... meaning thereby the pedestrian do not have a right of way at any other place of road,” it said.
 
 Therefore, the court could not rule out the possibility of other reasons behind the accident other than the motorcyclist’s rash driving or negligence in this case, the judge said. “It cannot be said that the prosecution had established the identity of the appellant as the rider of the offending vehicle beyond all reasonable doubts.” The court also said, “similarly, rashness or negligence is also not proved beyond doubts... IO (investigation officer) apparently did not examine any independent witness from that place who could have given a neutral account”. 
 
 
