BENGALURU: A 28-year-old   from  , who conducted   in mathematics, was arrested by  , northeast division, for allegedly stealing high-end cameras and lenses from victims he lured through online portals.

 
 Kartik Addagarla, who hails from Visakhapatnam but recently lived a nomadic life, was tracked down to a hotel in Gandhinagar, west Bengaluru. Police recovered four cameras and three lenses worth Rs 12 lakh, which he allegedly stole from victims in Mumbai and Kolkata, from his room.
 
 Preliminary investigation has revealed that Addagarla is involved in more than 25 cases of cheating. In most of the cases filed in major cities across the country, he is accused of selling electrical gadgets that he took on rent.
 
 Police said they were taken aback when they learnt about the background of the accused. “His father is an assistant commander in the Navy and mother a bank manager in Andhra Pradesh,” said a police officer.
 
 “After completing a computer science degree from IIT Delhi in 2012, Addagarla joined IIM Kolkata in 2013 to pursue an MBA. But he dropped out after he was caught conning classmates of money in online gambling games,” he added.
 
 Since then, Addagarla has lived a nomadic life, going from city to city and cheating people, police said. “Posing as a professional cameraman or businessman, he would approach victims through online rental portals,” police said.
 
 “He would give the address and landline number of the hotel he was staying in and fix a meeting. In the guise of taking their cameras and other gadgets on rent, Addagarla would collect the goods and disappear. He would then sell them on another online portal a few days later.” Police said the cost of some cameras ran into lakhs of rupees.
 
 City police got on Addagarla’s trail after a victim from Sampigehalli registered a complaint. Addagarla was tracked for over two months and eventually nabbed when he arrived in the city on May 25.
 
 Strangely, Addagarla never carried a bag or suitcase, police said. “He would buy a new set of clothes, use them for one or two weeks, throw them away and buy new ones again,” police said adding, “He is a teetotaller.”
 
 
