Madurai/Tirunelveli: Being May 1, Tuesday was one of the four days on the national calendar when gram sabhas had to mandatorily meet in villages all over the country and many villages in the southern part of the state too followed the routine. Many sabhas passed crucial resolutions while some meetings, as in Korampallam and Ayyanadaipu panchayats in Tuticorin, had to be cancelled after members wanted resolutions to be passed on “out of agenda” items. 

 Experts say that many resolutions often become invalid if they are not backed by proper scientific validation. This was not done because people still lack awareness on the powers the gram sabha gives them. Madurai district collector K Veera Raghava Rao participated in the gram sabha meeting in Therku Theru near Melur. He told the people that it was important to be updated with the various government schemes and avail benefits due to them.
 
 Gram sabhas were convened in all 306 villages in Dindigul district with district collector Dr T G Vinay participating in the meeting at Vellampatti panchayat in Vedasandur block. He explained the various government schemes and urged the people to ensure protection for water bodies in their villages and also save harvested rainwater. In all, 130 farmers were given permission to use silt from water bodies in their fields. Ramanathapuram district collector S Natarajan participated in the meeting at Ettivayal village, and said that steps were being taken to make all the 429 panchayats in the district free of open defecation.
 
 As part of the ongoing protests in Tuticorin city and villages around Sterlite, people from a few villages pressed for resolutions to be passed to close the major copper producing plant permanently. While the resolution was passed in a couple of panchayats the meeting had to be called off in a couple of others following the officials’ refusal. At Mappilaiurani panchayat, villagers from the nearly 50 hamlets attached to the panchayat participated. There were heated exchanges as the officials who presided over the meeting initially refused to write a resolution demanding closure of Sterlite though later, they budged. At Therkuveerapandiapuram panchayat, located near the Sterlite plant, villagers passed a resolution for the third time in a gram sabha meeting to close the plant.
 
 At Korampallam and Ayyanadaipu panchayats the Gram Sabha meetings were cancelled as the villagers demanded a resolution to be passed to close Sterlite, while the officials refused to do so. People of Anavaratha Nallur panchayat sought a resolution to be passed for placing the panchayat clerk under suspension for his absence in the meeting. No resolutions could be passed as villagers wanted closure of Sterlite as one of resolutions.
 
 District collector N Venkatesh told TOI that gram sabha meetings had a set agenda on the topics to be discussed, works that have been carried out in villages, village finance and accounts and works that have to be carried out. He said that resolutions could not be passed on other issues during the meeting. “If people have any other issues they can submit petitions or lodge complaints,” he said. He also said that officials explained this to the villagers who demanded resolutions to be passed on other subjects, following which people understood it
 
 ————————————————
 
 POWER TO THE PEOPLE
 
 Gram sabha is a body that is responsible for approving plans, programmes and projects for socio economic development for implementation in the village. 
 
 Gram sabha is the highest form of local governance which enables the people of a village to act like a mini republic and develop it. 
 
 Every resident of a village whose name is on the electoral rolls is a member of the gram sabha
 
 Gram sabha has to be conducted regularly in every village in the country
 
 Beneficiaries of poverty alleviation programmes have to be identified through gram sabhas. 
 
 Sabhas have to certify proper fund utilization by village panchayat.
 
 It has to be compulsorily held on four public holidays every year — January 26, May 1, Aug 15 and Oct 2 with the required quorum. 
 
 
