BHOPAL: Excitement is sky high at the annual   Adventure Fest at  , but so is the summer heat. And the scare of crocodiles. 

 Fest organizer   said they want to shift part of the activities to Upper Lake. "We have urged the tourism department to grant us permission to shift sailing activities to   as there are reports of crocodile movement in the dam. Since the water level has decreased, it's difficult to hold water sports. We don't want to take any risks with public safety."
 
 Corroborating Yadvendra's concern, range officer   said, "Crocodiles are sighted several times a week at Kaliasot Dam. There are at least two crocodiles here. Since, the water level has dropped, crocodiles are likely to come out of the water. We often find them near the road and move them back into the dam."
 
 There has been no report of crocodile attack in Kaliasot dam in the last couple of years. The last one was in September 2014 when a fisherman was bitten in the leg.
 
 Ritesh Sharma, joint secretary of Bhopal tourism promotion council, said, "Due to movement of crocodiles at Kaliasot Dam, we have found that water activities are a little risky. We have received an application and have forwarded it to the tourism and sport departments, as they have the authority to allow us to hold water activities at Upper lake. For us, public safety is priority. If we don't get permission to start activities at Upper Lake, we'd rather cancel the water events."
 
 The fest organizers are worried because the camping area - where more than 250 participants and trainers will be lodged - is just 500m from the dam. "The water level in Kaliasot dam is just half of last year, due to which we have decided to organize only banana rides and water-bobbing." 
 
 The timing is off this time, say organizers. "Usually, the adventure fest is held in early-February and gets over by month-end, but this year, due to delay in permission, it got delayed. Now, the temperature is so high that we won't be able to conduct activities during the daytime. Usually, we start at 6am and continue till noon. But this time, we have decided to wind up by 10am. In the second half, earlier the activities started at 3pm, but we have decided to begin at 5pm. During the day, we will take participants trekking in the forest or do some water activity in order to escape from the heat," Yadvendra said.
 
 This year, the organizers have decided to add more fun activities to the festival, including full-length bungee jump from a crane. There are Velcro wall for children, sumo wrestling on mat, bungee tug of war, paint ball arena, and wall-climbing competitions.
 
 
