CHENNAI: Against the popular perception that Tamil Nadu was losing out as an investment destination in recent years, the state has actually attracted more than three times Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in last six years, when compared to the previous 11 years. During the period May, 2011 to December, 2017, Tamil Nadu attracted Rs 1.18lakh crore as FDI, as against Rs 37,233crore   during the previous 11 years (April, 2000 – April 2011), as per data sourced from Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP), Ministry of Commerce & Industry, Government of India.

 
  
 
 The FDI indicates the inflow across sectors including manufacturing, services and other sectors, besides additional investments pumped in by existing companies that have been operating here for long. Further, for the 17-year period (April 2000 – December 2017), Tamil Nadu had retained its fourth position across India, higher than Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh & Telangana, but below Maharashtra, NCR and Karnataka.
 
 “Talks are in advanced stage with investors for fresh cumulative investments of around Rs 50,000crore in various sectors, including petroleum refinery, passenger cars and two-wheelers, auto components, tyres, carbon black, glass fibre and yarn to fabric projects. The state is working out structured packages for these new investors,”   secretary, K Gnandesikan told TOI.
 
 IOCL’s 10 million tonne per annum (mtpa) petroleum refinery at   with an investment of nearly Rs 28,000crore is the largest investment that will be coming in. Work on Delta Electronics’ new   project, at an investment of Rs 4,000 crore, has started in Krishnagiri district. Once ready, it will offer employment to 5,000 people and its expansion later will create a total 20,000 jobs.
 
 Tamil Nadu, which came in for flak for letting go investments of Kia Motors to Andhra Pradesh, has recently convinced two existing companies,  , a car air-conditioner manufacturer, and Mando, a Korean auto component major, to retain their expansion plans within state. “We believe in focusing on individual investors. The focus on existing investors is to make them happy by being accessible and resolving their issues. In case of new investors, we handhold them with customised and structured packages,” said the secretary.
 
 
