Chennai: “To eat is a necessity, but to eat intelligently is an art,” said François de La Rochefoucauld, a renowned French author. This quote fits in well with the latest fad among adventurers. Gourmet vacations do not just focus on the local cuisine of the place, but also delve more into the cooking style, history of cuisines, local flavours and tradition. Such vacations are seen gaining popularity and are available in places like Bengaluru, Kolkata, Goa, Mumbai, Delhi.  Gourmet travellers, wanting to get into the nitty-gritty of food history and culture, are joining local chefs to get in-depth knowledge about the cuisine. With street food being the biggest catch, festivals such as the Grub Fest — sponsored by brands such as Maruti Suzuki and Yes Bank, and the Delhi Food Truck Festival, attract tourists from across the country for the two day event. Restaurants and brands come together to showcase their products in the show. “We saw a bunch of friends come all the way from Chennai to Delhi to take part in the food truck festivals. With food trucks becoming more mainstream, street food festivals are gaining traction. One of the main reasons for it to gain traction is the gourmet customers who want to experience multiple cuisines at the same place and at an affordable entry cost of Rs 250,”said Abhishek Deo, founder of Delhi Food Truck Festival. The festival, which is conducted twice a year, sees an average footfall of 25,000 per session.  Other important food fests to garb attention are Mei Ramew from Meghalaya - organised by the government, Ahare Bangla in Kolkata and Bhukkad Flea in Mumbai.  Travel companies see a 20-25% rise year-on-year in the uptake for the food tours.  On a food journey it is always more the merrier. Aggregators say that such festivals attract a lot of group bookings. “The cost could range from anywhere between Rs 800 to Rs 8000, depending on the location.Led by noted food enthusiasts and guides, these are considered a must explore when you are visiting a destination,” said Amit Taneja, chief revenue officer, Cleartrip. The company saw footfalls successively increase from 10% to 32% to 58% over the first, second and third day.