NEW DELHI: The final trigger for the stunning 
  of the   came at 10.15am on Friday – just 15 minutes before the commencement of proceedings – when Chief Justice   bluntly turned down their last-minute request to shift a politically sensitive case from a particular bench.

 The CJI made it clear that he would not break tradition, backed by a recent five-judge bench decision giving him sole discretion to assign cases to benches of his choice.
 
 On Thursday, a CJI-led bench had admitted a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking a probe into the death of B H  , who as special CBI judge was hearing the case of gangster  's "fake" encounter.
 
 
 
 
 The four judges – all members of the crucial collegium by virtue of being no. 2 to no. 5 in seniority – thought that a matter of importance to the integrity of the judiciary and to the nation should be assigned to a bench headed by a judge who was more senior than Justice Arun Mishra, who is 10th in the pecking order of the 25 SC judges.
 
 With the CJI refusing to heed the demand, the rebellious quartet hurriedly called the media at noon after quickly completing the day's work.
 
  
  
 
 Loya died in Nagpur on December 1, 2014. The CBI court subsequently acquitted BJP chief  , who was among the accused, along with a few others.
 
 
 
 
 
 SC sources said Misra's decision was backed by the November 2017 verdict saying CJI was "master of the roster" and was free to assign cases to any bench and determine the number and composition of judges on a bench. 
 
 
 
 
 Disappointed by the rejection of their request, the four judges told the CJI they would act as they deemed fit. All four, heading separate benches from court numbers 2 to 5, finished their day's work within one and a half hours and rushed to Justice Chelameswar's house for a press conference which started at 12.20 pm.
 
 The CJI's office said the chief justice has made it clear that he would not break with tradition giving him sole discretion to assign cases to benches of his choice. "Cases have been assigned by ex-CJIs – Justices H L Dattu, T S Thakur, J S Khehar – as per their discretion and the present CJI is not doing anything that is contrary to the tradition backed by the constitution bench ruling."
 
  
  
 
 This assertion by the CJI's office found reflection in the letter written by the four senior-most judges to the CJI two months ago. It had said: "There have been instances where cases having far-reaching consequences for the nation and the institution had been assigned by the Chief Justices of this Court selectively to the benches ‘of their preference' without any rationale basis for such assignment. This must be guarded against at all costs".
 
 The letter also said: "The convention of recognising the privilege of the CJI to form roster and assign cases to different members/benches of the SC is a convention devised for disciplined and efficient transaction of business of the court but not a recognition of any superior authority, legal or factual of the CJI over his colleagues. It is too well settled in the jurisprudence of this country that the CJI is only the first among equals - nothing more or nothing less."
 
 The CJI's office used this quote and said if these most senior judges were equal to the so-called junior judges in the court, then "what is the grievance against a case getting listed before judge X or judge Y?"
 
 
