NEW DELHI: The   booked 1,745 drunk drivers during   on Sunday, double the number they had booked in 2016. The maximum number of prosecution was from south Delhi. 

 Special commissioner (traffic) Dependra Pathak said regular traffic picket teams were asked to keep strict vigil on any vehicle leaving the market areas. “We had asked our men to ensure zero tolerance for   and deployments were made across the city to conduct surprise checks. This resulted in the higher number of prosecution,” said Pathak.
 
 However, some Delhiites managed to bypass checks by allowing women to drive vehicles to avoid being flagged down by cops. Police officers said that about 10 women had been booked. In 2016, 889 people were booked for drunk driving.
  
  
 In south Delhi, 275 drunk drivers were booked, out of which 33 were challaned at four pickets in Kotla Mubarakpur. Police officers said that a picket on Nelson Mandela Marg had caught the highest number of tipsy drivers with 18 challans. 
 
 The traffic police set up 433 check posts, out of which 125 were for checking drunk driving. Police officers said that most drivers came up with excuses such as ‘drinking for the first time’ and ‘taken just a few sips’ to evade being challaned. The police have also suspended the licence of all violators. Some of the drivers were even asked to park their cars and hire cabs after they were found to be drunk beyond the permissible limits. 
 
 Senior officers said that before midnight, 745 drivers were booked for drunk driving while 1,000 were booked after midnight. In total, 16,420 people were booked for other offences across the city. 
 
 According to the traffic police, areas around Greater Kailash, Saket and Safdurjung markets were found to be prone to drunk driving, with 30 people being booked in these areas on Sunday night. More than 40 people were booked at check posts near Vasant Vihar and Vasant Kunj.
 
 Police pickets outside religious establishments were asked to be alert about stunt biking in Lutyens’ Delhi. Across the city, 4,033 people were booked for riding without helmets and dangerously driving two-wheelers.
 
 A drive was also conducted on January 1 after large numbers of people were found to have gathered at eateries across the city. 
 
 In order to prevent revellers from driving drunk, the traffic police had put up banners across the city wishing drivers a happy new year while reminding them about prosecution for drunk driving. It had also formed teams along with the local police to book drunk drivers for dangerous driving. 
 
 
