NEW DELHI: The internal complaints committee of Delhi University will soon hear the deposition of witnesses in the two separate complaints of sexual harassment filed against a chemistry professor by an ad-hoc teacher and a postgraduate student. A senior university official said on Thursday that the panel had finished hearing the contending parties, and it has now summoned the witnesses. The accused, Professor Ramesh  , has maintained that the allegations are baseless and meant to malign him.

 The teacher had lodged her complaint with the   on December 21 last year, while the student had petitioned Delhi University Students’ Union, which forwarded the complaint to the ICC. Ram Babu, ICC member, said, “After the final hearing, we will forward the ca- se to the   and   and they will decide the punishment to be given to the accused.”
 
 In her complaint, a copy of which is with TOI, the teacher had complained of being humiliated by Chandra in front of six male faculty members during the interview for an ad-hoc position in the chemistry department on November 6, 2017. The complainant has been teaching in the department for over six years.
 
 The complaint alleges that during the interview Chandra said, “Tum chaalis saal ki hone wali ho, kya kiya hain tumne apne career ke liye? At the age of 41 or 42, I was a VC … Isse accha to tum housewife ban jaati. Kitne bacche hain tumhare?” When the interviewee replied she had three children, Chandra apparently continued, “Chalo, us department mein toh tum kam se kam acchi ho…   tum ghar mein kaisi ho, ye toh … ji se poochna padega tumhara pati se.”
 
 In the other complaint, an MSc student alleged that Chandra had harassed her in class. “When I entered third semester, he was assigned as our lab teacher and on the very first day July 31, 2017 he started paying special attention and constantly staring at me which made me very uncomfortable,” her complaint says. “He subsequently instructed me to come and meet him in his lab. When I reached, he asked everybody to leave and then touched me on the shoulder. When I resisted he tried to pressure me, (saying) I can ruin your academic career but if I cooperated he could help me get good marks…After this he tried to grab me, which I objected to and ran away.”
 
 She claimed she applied to have her section changed so she did not have to attend Chandra’s classes, but he was appointed head of department. “Since then he is using his position to pressure me,” she alleged.
 
 Chandra dismissed the charges as false. “There is a group in the department that is jealous of me and my position. This gang is influencing the students into filing such false complaints against me,” he said.
 
 Pankaj Garg, Academic Council member, said these were grave charges. “A thorough inquiry must be conducted without brushing the matter under the carpet,” he said.
 
