PATIALA: Unhappy over leaders from OBC and SC communities being overlooked in the  , two more   — Surjit Dhiman from Amargarh and Nathu Ram from Balluana — resigned from party posts on Saturday.

 While Dhiman is a vice-president of Punjab Congress, Nathu Ram is a general secretary. The two MLAs have, however, said they would continue as party MLAs and work for the people. The duo made the announcement at a joint press conference called them at Dirba, Sangrur district.
 
 The move comes a day after the   from Tanda, Sangat Singh Gilzian, announced his resignation from the post of vice-president of Punjab Pradesh   Committee and as a member of All India Congress Committee, after the high command announced the names of nine new ministers to join CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s cabinet.
 
 Dhiman said they led members of their communities into supporting the Congress during assembly elections by promising representation in the state cabinet. “However, we feel we have been unable to keep these promises. So, we have decided to resign from party posts,” he said.
 
 He said it was for the party high command to ensures all communities were given representation in the state cabinet. “We are unhappy over non-representation of OBCs and SCs in the state cabinet. If not us, someone else from the OBCs or SCs must have been included in the cabinet to work for the members of the two communities,” they said.
 
 A visibly upset Dhiman said he still stood by his statement given during a state-level function at Sunam to pay homage to Shaheed Udham Singh that the state government had been unable to curtail drug trade in the state.
 
 
 
 
 Some other Congress MLAs from OBC and SC communities are also planning to resign from party posts as a show of resentment over the party not including members of their communities in the cabinet. While OBCs have a 28% vote share in the state, SCs comprise 34%.
 
 
 
 
 Congress MLAs from OBC and SC communities, not wishing to be named, said the party had failed to evolve a representation formula acceptable to all communities. They said there were eight Jats in the state cabinet even as the community only had 18% voters. “Ignoring members of OBC and SC communities could ‘prove costly’ for the party during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections,” said the MLAs.
 
 
