NEW DELHI: Kailash Gahlot, who is among the 20 MLAs disqualified by the President, was on Sunday seen waving at the crowds along with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal during the inauguration of a sewer project in Najafgarh that is expected to benefit 12 colonies in the area. Though he is no more a legislator,   will   as a minister in the Delhi cabinet holding key portfolios like law, transport and revenue.

 
  
  
 
 For now, Delhi government sees no change in the cabinet citing that law allows Gahlot to be on the post for six months from the date of disqualification. He will need to get re-elected within this period or lose the cabinet job.
 
 Reflecting AAP’s stand of carrying out work undeterred despite the disqualifications, the CM announced that “in the next two years, development work in all unauthorised colonies will be carried out at breakneck speed and funds and resources have been arranged for this purpose.”
 
 
 Wearing the   cap, Gahlot reached out to the people of Najafgarh, whom he represented till the disqualification, saying that “a sewer line had come to the area after 50 years.” Kejriwal, who is also the chairman of Delhi Jal Board, asserted that he will “personally monitor the work in these areas to ensure that work gets completed on time”.
 
 The government justified Gahlot’s presence at the function citing him as a minister. AAP has asserted that the disqualified MLAs will continue to work as volunteers on the field. The inauguration also reflects that AAP will not give up without a fight. The party will use the development plank to reach out to its core constituents in unauthorised colonies and slums. It is learnt that all 20 disqualified MLAs are gearing up to fight both in court and on the field.
 
 Meanwhile, all legislative and executive powers will now cease for the 20 disqualified MLAs. They are now just AAP members.
 
 As the notification came into effect on January 20, the disqualified legislators have no powers to direct the executive to carry out any development or policy-related functions. Even their salaries will stop. Only those development projects approved till Saturday will be executed. Many of these MLAs are on committees of Delhi assembly and now the Speaker will have to nominate new members to replace them.
 
 Though AAP is projecting a united house and stressing on the fact that the disqualified MLAs will continue to work hard in their constituencies, development work could be hit as their lack of power to direct the executive may slow down delivery.
 
 Also, how the public will respond to a non-MLA trying to justify his or her authority as an AAP member and   is going to be a challenge. Moreover, with elections in the air, AAP stands pitched against BJP and Congress who are also gearing up to battle it out on the field.
 
 The AAP government’s role becomes more critical now to ensure development as the state will have to coordinate with the bureaucracy to ensure execution. Also, the disqualified legislators cannot take any decision on   funds. As the financial year is coming to a close, only those who have utilised most of their funds will be able to claim credit.
 
