NEW DELHI:   of  , which has been   by  , is likely to pick up pace as central public works department ( ) has given a positive response to public works department to release   additional funds to Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation ( ) which is constructing the bridge.

 The hurdle in construction was created as contractors had stopped work due to non-payment of funds. The bridge, which is around 95% complete, may be opened to the public this year. The trial run is expected to begin in June. “Once the funds are released, work will start as per schedule,” said a senior official.
 
 DTTDC had submitted a revised estimate of Rs 1,574 crore to public works department (PWD). As the cost of the project has shot up considerably, PWD sought “expert opinion” on the revised estimate from CPWD. The initial cost of the project was Rs 887 crore. Delhi government has so far released Rs 1,344 crore.
 
 The existing Wazirabad Bridge, which is in a bad shape, is the main access route between northeast and north Delhi. The two-lane bridge cannot take the increasing traffic load and suffers massive traffic jams throughout the day. People travelling from Timarpur and ISBT towards Khajuri Khas and neighbouring areas are the most affected.
 
 PWD is now repairing the bridge, which will be completed in three phases. “Each phase will be finished in three months as we cannot shut the entire bridge at one go,” said a senior official.
 
 Signature Bridge aims to reduce travel time between north and northeast Delhi by improving traffic movement on Ring Road. Residents of these areas have been at the receiving end due to the delay. The project was conceptualised in 2004 and got the nod from Delhi cabinet in 2007. The first deadline was fixed ahead of the 2010 Commonwealth Games but it was revised to 2013. The bridge will be the first asymmetrical cable-stayed bridge in the country, which will be 675m long and 35.2m wide. The pylon, which is of 154m high, has already been constructed.
 
 
