VADODARA: The recent incident of   (cattle shelters) releasing cattle astray as they were not able to manage them seems to be a reflection of the condition of several other panjrapoles. The shelters are struggling to manage finances as funds have dried up and no major financial support has come from the government so far.

 Those managing the shelters in central   say that the donations on which the shelters used to survive have become difficult to come by off late. The economic slowdown has hit donors who are not donating large amounts like in previous years.
 
 Punam Sukhadiya, manager of Shrimati Prabhaben Kanjibhai Sheth Jivdayadham at   near  , said, “There is paucity of both water and fodder these days. We need around Rs1 lakh everyday to operate the facility. A bulk of this money comes from donations, but we are facing problems getting money since the last few months.” The shelter takes care of around 2,000 bovines.
 
 Sukhadiya said the government gives only a one-time aid of Rs2,500 for cows and their progeny that are rescued from being slaughtered after necessary paperwork and if a police complaint is registered. “This takes time and can help in supporting the animal only for about 50 days. For the rest of their life, we have to take care of the expenses,” he added.
 
 Similar is the situation of the Late Dilip-Paresh Ashokchand Shah Sarvajanik Panjrapole where around 2,600 animals have been given shelter. “The slowdown has led to fewer donations and we have no other source of income. We owe around Rs30 lakh to farmers and others. The animals are unproductive and we do not turn down anyone who comes to us with them. Some of those leaving the animals with us also give small amount of money for fodder as donation,” said manager of the shelter Ghanshyam Gohil.
 
 Rajiv Shah, a member of the managing committee of Shri Vadodara Panjrapol, said the shelter had stored dry grass in advance to manage the situation. “We have donors to take care of the situation, but other panjrapoles are facing difficulties. They have large number of animals too,” he said.
 
 
