THANE: The cluster redeveploment that is all set to be implemented in Thane by October will set the blueprint of development for the next three decades, factoring in all the requirements of the city usually allocated in the development plans (DP)s. 

 According to the team of experts and officials from the municipal administration who have designed this roadmap, a first of its kind in the country, the project will help reorient the entire cityscape for next four decades. “All elements that are usually taken care of in a development plan for a city like land utilisation, proposed density in a location and more have been considered in these renewal plans for Thane not just fort the next few years but over the next few decades as well,” said an official.
 
 The project that looks at vertical development is likely to restructure the ratio of roads and amenities in each of the urban renewal plans. It will also optimize the land use better than the existing development plans, said civic officials. 
 
 The urban renewal plans that comprise of nearly 23% of the developed areas of the city have been designed keeping in mind the future developments. Each of these plans will be congruent with all future potential developments proposed in the respective areas, including common amenities like fire stations, parks, auditoriums, to name a few.
 
 In addition, the revamp will also involve revising the existing land use pattern. Several areas have currently either been under-utilising their potential or over exploiting the land use vis-a-vis their actual requirement and potential will see a correction. 
 
 The presentation made by municipal commissioner   on Wednesday stressed more on how the land utilisation currently isn’t in proportion to its potential. 
 
 The presentation highlighted how areas like   that currently has almost no land parcels earmarked for commercial activities will see around 5% allocations from its 38 hectares of space in the renewal plan, while   will see a correction of road networks that will occupy 20% of roads as compared to the 13% as per the current use or even 24% as proposed in the development plan. 
 
 “We have carried out an extensive study of the city with experts to understand the future needs of specific areas and accordingly have made allocationsWe have reorganized the land use in the URPs to ensure its optimal utilisation,” said Jaiswal.
 
 All elements that are usually taken care of in a development plan for a city like land utilisation, proposed density in a location and more have been considered in these renewal plans for Thane not just fort the next few years but over the next few decades as well
 
 
