JAIPUR: Heat wave conditions further aggravated in the state on Friday when majority of the places witnessed its maximum temperatures above the normal notch.   remained hottest in the state where a   of 45.5 degrees Celsius, almost 5 degrees above the normal notch was recorded.

 
 Meanwhile, Jaipur has recorded hottest day of the season so far as maximum temperature touched 43.9 degrees Celsius, 3 degrees above the normal notch.
 
 Attributing the continued rise in the mercury the Jaipur met office said that mild showers and dust storm will occur at several places in the state in the next 24 hours. 
 
 Jaipurities woke up to a warmer morning as a minimum temperature of 29.2 degrees Celsius, almost 3 degrees above the normal notch was recorded. It was followed by the hottest afternoon of the season so far as a maximum temperature of 43.9 degrees Celsius, almost 3 degrees above the normal notch was recorded. The roads wore an empty look in the afternoon as the people confined themselves to their respective homes and offices. The ongoing spell of heat wave has also aggravated water crisis at many areas in walled city and also introduced the abrupt power cuts. 
 
 There was no respite from the blistering heat conditions in other parts of the state as well as Sriganganagar was followed by Churu where a maximum temperature of 45 degrees Celsius was recorded, Kota 44.8, Bikaner 44.7, Jaisalmer 44.4, Barmer 44, Pilani and Jodhpur 42.7 degrees Celsius each, Ajmer 42.6 and a maximum temperature of 42 degrees Celsius was recorded in Udaipur.
 
 In the districts including Sriganganagar, Churu, Barmer, Jaisalmer and Jodhpur the water crisis has become a major problem. Likewise, the abrupt power failures even during night time has also increased the work load of the technicians working for the Jaipur Vidyut Nigam Limited and  . 
 
 In its forecast Jaipur met office said that thunderstorm and dust storm will occur at many places in the state due to the upcoming upper air cyclonic circulation in the next 24 hours. 
 
