MUMBAI: Over the past few years, almost every innings of   seems to mirror the story of his career so far: A blazing start through a few glorious strokes, and then just as you feel he’s on top of the bowling, comes a false stroke which brings an abrupt end to his stay at the crease.

 
 
 
 This season, though, the 27-year-old is promising to turn a new leaf, as his impressive run in the Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy (217 runs in eight games @54.25, strike rate of 188.69) and the   league stage (295 runs in six games @59.00, with a strike rate of 111.74) for Mumbai reflect. If the talented, yet unpredictable batsman sticks to this new-found consistency, he might even be able to stake a claim for a berth in India’s limited overs middle-order batting, which currently has a ‘vacancy’ board hanging around on its door.
 
 Talking to TOI from Delhi ahead of the Vijay Hazare knockouts, Yadav, who was tipped to make it to the Indian One-Day team at the start of his career back in 2012, summarised his tale aptly. “I’m still hungry to play for India, but, I’ve showed that hunger only in the last year or so. You can say: ‘Der aye, par durust aye. (Better late than never).”
 
 It was his honest self-introspection which has helped Yadav discover new zeal and consistency. “I analysed my game in limited-over formats before the start of this year’s edition of the Mushtaq Ali T20. I realised that there were very few games in which I’ve helped my team win a match. So, my focus was to correct that trend. I wanted to stay till the end for my and the team’s sake. I know that if I stay around, I have the strokes to help my team win,” he said.
 
 He then changed his ‘preparation routine.’ “Rather than thinking about the results, I began to focus on the process. Obviously, my natural game is attacking, but the idea was to curtail risky shots and try to stay till the end. I practised in the nets accordingly,” he observed.
 
 Meditation, too, has helped him become a better player, he insisted. “I’ve started meditating since the last three-four months. It’s one of the reasons which has helped me do well. I’ve started thinking about the game more in the last six months, knowing my strengths and weaknesses.”
 
 ‘Match simulation’ in the nets has helped him train in the art of finishing a game. “I’m trying to bat in the same way in which I’d bat in a game. I try to bat till the point I’m really tired, so that it prepares me for a situation wherein I’m batting in the last three-four overs after being there in the middle for a long time.”
 
 Speaking about why he couldn’t build upon his initial success, Surya said: “I wasn’t thinking or analysing too much. I needed to work much harder in the nets to stay one step ahead of the game, but I didn’t do it. Slowly, I’ve realised in the last couple of years that I lacked something,” he analysed.
 
 Poor shot selection has been his constant bane. “Sometimes, when you’ve too many shots, you get confused. It’s also put me down sometimes. I’m trying to reduce this problem as much as I can,” he promised.
 
 In the past, there’ve been disciplinary issues with him too, and Yadav is now trying to reform himself. “I thought of getting over this thing completely before this season. There’ve been a few things, but at the end of the day, the Mumbai Cricket Association ( ) is my home, which has helped me come up in life, and helped me in my younger days,” he said.
 
