Pune: A decade-long association with sitar maestro Pandit Ravi Shankar and collaborations with George Harrison and others is what makes renowned percussionist Bickram Ghosh the face of Indo-Western fusion music. In a programme organized by the Poona Music Society, Ghosh will play tabla alongside France-based band Mezcal Jazz Unit at Mazda Hall on February 9. “India is developing an ear for jazz. Not just metropolitan cities, but places like Lucknow and Chandigarh too appreciate it. Withdrawing from rigid musical choices, people are now ready for new experiments,” said the Kolkata-based 51-year-old artist. With such concerts, people having different tastes in music get introduced to other forms of the art. “The curiosity to know how one genre blends with the other is what pulls them to such events,” he said. However, being a part of groups which practise different genres is not new for Ghosh who has played for four Grammy- nominated albums. He was also part of ‘full circle’ that won Pandit Ravi Shankar his Grammy. In 2006, Ghosh and the four-member jazz band collaborated for the first time and recorded an album called ‘One’. Twelve years later, history is repeating itself. “Even after a gap of 12 years, the energy and the enthusiasm to understand each other’s music remains the same. This year too, we have recorded an album called ‘One more’ and are in the middle of our country-wide tour that started in Kolkata,” said Ghosh. As a part of this tour, the troupe has also performed in Lucknow and Chandigarh and will end with a show in Mumbai after Pune. Fusing the two genres together, however, was not an easy job. It not only required understanding of music but also of each other’s culture. “In 2006, in the 10 days we spent together we learned about each other’s tastes and techniques and that helped us shape the music we created,” he said. Ghosh feels that Jazz has much similarity to Indian classical music than any other Western music genre. Drawing parallels between the two, he said, “Like Indian classical music, Jazz too believes in improvisation. It gives the artist the freedom to experiment within a set framework, unlike other genres,” he said.