GURUGRAM: A 22-year-old   was kidnapped in the early hours of Thursday after he took a lift from  . The abductors demanded Rs 50,000 from his family while driving around the city for nearly three hours. They were finally paid Rs 20,000, but, unhappy over not receiving the entire amount, the accused shot at the victim’s leg and dumped him on Golf Course Road (extension). 

 An FIR has been registered against the abductors, who haven’t been identified yet, at Sector 18 police station.
 
 The cook has been identified as Pradeep (22), originally from Uttarakhand, who works at a restaurant on MG Road. Around 2am on Thursday, Pradeep was returning home from work when a   coming from the Rajiv Chowk side with three people inside approached him near Iffco Chowk. He boarded it after the driver promised to drop him near Dundahera, where he lives in a rented accomodation.
 
 The moment he boarded the car, the two men sitting in the backseat overpowered him. They snatched his phone, while the driver sped the cab towards Sector 18. “They made a phone call to one of Pradeep’s relatives, who lives in gurugram, and asked him to pay Rs 50,000 at Ghoda Chowk for the former’s safe release,” said Chandra Prakash, SHO of Sector 18 police station.
 
 Immediately after receiving the call, the relative alerted cops. “We were infomed about the   around 2am. Several police teams were formed and dispatched after receiving the call,” the SHO added. 
 
 Wary of being tracked, the accused kept changing the location for the   pickup. While they initially asked the relative to hand over the money at Ghoda Chowk, they later asked him to come to Rajiv Chowk and then to Manesar. The accused finally asked him to come to Hero Honda Chowk around 5am, where they slowed down the car and he paid them Rs 20,000. 
 
 After taking money, the car sped towards Southern Peripheral Road, with a police team following them. Unhappy with not getting the full amount, they shot Pradeep in the leg and dumped him on Golf Course Road (extension) near Sector 65.
 
 He suffered a leg fracture, and cops took him to General Hospital in Civil Lines for treatment. “He was referred to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital for further treatment. His condition is stable now,” a General Hospital official told TOI. 
 
 Prakash said a case was registered against the accused on the basis of the relative’s complaint under Section 364 (kidnapping) of IPC. “Pradeep was referred to Safdarjung Hospital for treatment, so we haven’t been able to record his statement yet. After recording the statement, sections for attempt to murder and Arms Act will be incorporated in the FIR,” he said.
 
 
