PATNA: Be it a businessman, farmer, homemaker or a salaried middle-class person, everyone is expecting something from Union finance minister  , who will present the last full budget of the   government in his first term on Thursday.

 Chartered accountant Subodh Goel, who provides services to around 40 industrialists, said majority of his clients were expecting reduction in corporate tax as Jaitley, after the government formation, had promised to bring it down from 30% to 25%. “Though the tax has been reduced to 25% for corporate houses having turnover of up to Rs50 crore, those in higher bracket are also expecting the cut, at least by 5%”, he said.
 
 The industrialists are also expecting the government to invest heavily in infrastructure.   Chamber of Commerce and Industries president P K Agarwal said investment in road, communication and gas pipeline will boost growth.
 
 Some industrialists are also expecting special package or incentive for the state.   president   said he expects industrial development fund for backward regions of the country, which will also benefit Bihar. Both Agarwal and   said they were expecting special package or extra incentive for the state development.
 
  have also expectations from the Centre regarding lower interest rate on loans to buy modern machineries and boost the agricultural sector. 
 
 Sudhanshu Kumar of Nayanagar under Hasanpur block in Samastipur district said the farm loan is capped at Rs1 lakh and given at 7% interest. Farmers get 3% rebate on timely repayment. He said the cap should be increased to at least Rs3 lakh as most of the machines were costly. He also wants interest rate to be reduced to 5% with 3% rebate on timely repayment of loan. “Instead of waiving the loan, the government should reduce the interest rate,” he said.
 
 Middle-class and salaried people hope the income tax slab will be increased from Rs2.50 lakh to Rs3 lakh. Increase in the slab for tax saving schemes like life insurance, employees’ provident fund and public provident fund is another expectation. Aditi Mishra (29) of a telecom company said people could save income tax on investments up to Rs1.5 lakh only. It should be at least Rs2 lakh, she said and added that women should be given extra relaxation in terms of tax slab to empower them.
 
 Kanchan Roy, a homemaker residing in Shivpuri, expects the government to control the   cylinder price. “The LPG cylinder price is increasing every day. Right now, I am paying Rs813 for one cylinder, which was around Rs600 only a few months back,” she said. Roy even demanded reduction in GST on sari and readymade garments. 
 
 
