 Dawda Cessay and Israil Gurung struck at the death to give   SC a 2-0 victory over  , their third in a row in the  , at the Tilak Maidan in   on Monday.
 
  When it looked like the teams would settle for a point each, Gambian striker Ceesay broke the deadlock with two minutes left on the clock and substitute Gurung doubled the lead in added time.
  
  The victory gives Churchill Brothers 10 points – all accumulated from their last four matches – and takes them to the seventh spot, previously occupied by Indian Arrows with the same number of points. Churchill, however, are placed ahead of Arrows due to their better head-to-head count.
  
  With Kalu Ogba recovering in time from a muscle strain, Churchill started with an unchanged playing 11 that defeated Shillong Lajong FC 2-0 last week.
  
  The two-time champions dominated proceedings right from the start but were made to sweat by their young opposition who simply soaked in the pressure.
  
  Mechac Koffi thought he had given the home team an early lead but was ruled off side. Soon, the Ivory Coast striker had another glorious opportunity when Yendrembam Meitei provided a perfect long ball that caught Anwar Ali off guard but Koffi blasted wide with only goalkeeper Prabhsukhan Singh at his mercy.
  
  Arrows were clueless in the initial minutes and were disorganised. Lone striker Abhijit Sarkar was given hardly any space by Churchill’s centre-back Osagie Monday, who even capitalised on his own errors with ease.
  
  The flow continued in the second half as Churchill attacked in numbers. However, the match sparked to life only in the 73rd minute when Boris Singh made space to find Rahul Balan but Churchill goalkeeper James Kithan rose to the challenge to thwart Balan.
  
  
  At the other end, goalkeeper Prabhsukhan Gill did well to stop a header from Monday while Koffi misfired from the six-yard box. With five minutes to go, Arrows survived another scare as Kalu’s cheeky shot hit the upright.
  
  Churchill finally broke the deadlock in the 88th minute. A counter initiated by Israil Gurung saw Koffi weave past the rival defence into the box and his effort eventually hit a defender and fell to Ceesay, who took his time, moved to his right and poked in the opener.
  
  Churchill were awarded a freekick in added time and Koffi wasted no time in releasing the ball for Gurung as the Arrows defence was caught napping.
  
  Churchill have the comfort of playing their next three games at home against Neroca (January 30), Minerva Punjab (February 2) and defending champions Aizawl FC (February 6).
  
  Arrows have two away fixtures before facing Churchill Bros again in Delhi. They first travel to Chennai to play Chennai City FC and then tackle East Bengal.
