NEW DELHI: Terming  's feat of emerging as the single largest party in   as "unprecedented" and "unusual", Prime Minister   on Tuesday accused   of playing divisive and regressive politics at the cost of development of the state.

 
 "Karnataka victory is unprecedented and unusual in many ways... a perception has been created that BJP is a north Indian and Hindispeaking party. However, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa and entire north east are not Hindi-speaking. People of Karnataka have disheartened the perverted mentalities indulging in spreading lies," Modi said while addressing BJP workers at the party headquarters.
 
 The PM said Congress played "divisive" politics ignoring development of the state which it ruled for several decades. "It is hard to believe that a political party (Congress) can hurt democracy and federal structure of the country for political and electoral gains. The party (Congress) incited a north-south and Centre-state divide," he said referring to the previous Siddaramaiah government's proposal for a separate flag for the state.
 
 Modi lauded BJP president  's "hard work" as most important factor in the Karnataka verdict, making it loud and clear he is the undisputed second in command.
 
 In his address, Shah said the verdict is public endorsement of Modi's "clean governance" rejection of Congress' "dynastic politics".
 
 Asserting that people have voted for a 'Congressmukt' Karnataka, he said BJP will maintain its winning streak and perform even better in 2019 parliamentary polls. "In 2019 we will not only form the government under the leadership of Modi Ji but also form a New India in 2022," he said.
 
 "Congress used politics of caste to divide the people and tried to incite Dalits on SC/ST Act in Karnataka," Shah said. He accused Congress of using the "most immoral politics" by joining hands with outfits such as the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and Popular Front of India (PFI) which, he said, were involved in anti-national activities.
 
 Shah said BJP has already won the last 14 elections and this is the 15th consecutive election where BJP is going to win, reiterating the party's stand on staking claim to form government in Karnataka.
 
 
