TUTICORIN: Protests demanding closure of the   Copper plant at   which began at   entered the 50th day on Monday with villagers showing the same vigour with which they began it all on February 12. Meanwhile, villagers of   petitioned the district collector on Monday demanding closure of the plant.

 They alleged that pollution by the plant was causing breathing difficulty and various types of cancer and skin diseases. They claimed that villagers of Sankaraperi, Meelavittan, Madathur, Mapilayurani, Korampallam, Silverpuram, VMS Nagar, Silukanpatti, Therkuveerapandiyapuram village and   taluk as well as Tuticorin corporation would be affected if the copper plant was not closed. Villagers of   and Soorankudi also petitioned the collector seeking closure of polluting industries in their locality.
 
 Members of Uyirkolli Sterlite Ethirpu Makkal Iyakkam (people’s movement against killer Sterlite) petitioned the collector alleging that the plant was illegally working on their expansion works without following the required steps. Petitioner R Prabhu alleged that the plant fell under the ultra red category but was being established closer to a residential locality.
 
 “Action should be taken against the plant and officials who are turning a blind eye to the alarming issue and are extending a helping hand to the industry,” he said. Protesting villagers and activists said that they are planning an awareness programme and competitions for school children on April 13 and 14 on the ill effects of industrial pollution.
 
 Students of V O Chidambaram College, Bishop Caldwell College of Arts and Science, Kamaraj College and Mother Teresa Engineering College boycotted classes in support of the protests against Sterlite. Some students participated in the protest in the District Collectorate. Students of VOC College and Mother Teresa College visited Kumarattiyapuram villagers and extended their support to them.
 
 Responding to issues pertaining to the protests and petitions, collector Venkatesh told reporters that all complaints against Sterlite were being sent to the government. He reassured that the government was closely monitoring the issue and would come out with a good decision. He said that they were ensuring that no law and order issue rose due to the protests.
 
 
