GUWAHATI: Economists are optimistic about the   bringing large-scale benefits to the state in terms of improved healthcare and farm income. They felt people can look forward to real 'achhe din' because the budget has proposed a slew of positive measures, including stress on agriculture, healthcare, a re-structured   and special residential schools for tribals. The Federation of Industries & Commerce of North Eastern Region (Finer) on Thursday organized a live viewing of the budget presentation where economists, representatives from various commerce bodies and businessmen were present.

 RS  , ex-chairman, Finer, sharing his thoughts on the budget said, "Though there is nothing specific for  , but with several schemes getting major boosts, the state can derive a lot of benefits. It now completely depends on the state government to take advantage of this budget." 
 
 Terming the budget as 'sabka budget' (budget for all), Joshi welcomed the Centre's move to raise the minimum support price (MSP) of farm products. "It would be of great help to farmers who suffer huge losses from natural calamities like floods and heavy rains almost every year," Joshi added.
 
 As the budget also attempted to address the problems faced by micro small and medium enterprises (MSME),  , executive director of Rashtriya Gramin Vikas Nidhi (RGVN) opined, "Assam can benefit from the government's big tax sop to MSMEs. This will leave companies with higher investible surplus which in turn will create job opportunities. Moreover, the state can take huge advantage under UDAN (an acronym for Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik) scheme aiming to connect under-served and unserved airports and helipads in the country."
 
 The budget on Thursday reduced income tax to 25% for small companies with an annual turnover of up to Rs 250 crore. Earlier, it had reduced the income tax to 25% for small companies with an annual turnover of up to Rs 50 crore. In addition,   finance minister Arun Jaitley also allocated Rs 3,794 crore for credit support to MSMEs.
 
 MP Bezbaruah, professor of economics at Gauhati University, however, said the Union budget carried a political message. "A lot has been promised and it somehow carries a political agenda in wooing a large section of people with general elections round the corner. However, the health sector has been given a major boost and if implemented properly a large number of people would benefit," he viewed. 
 
 Jaitley's proposal for a comprehensive healthcare plan covering over 10 crore poor and vulnerable families with a family limit of up to Rs 5 lakh for secondary and tertiary treatment, was hailed. Schemes aiming to establish Ekalavya Residential Schools in every tribal block and infrastructure development for the tourism sector were also welcomed by economists who termed the budget as a 'populist' one.
 
