AMRITSAR: Asking people to refrain from the malicious propaganda of fringe elements supporting  , Rashtriya Sikh Sangat — the Sikh wing of RSS — has appealed to them extend a warm welcome to Canadian Prime Minister   during his Amritsar visit on Wednesday.

 Talking to TOI on Tuesday, chief of the Sikh Sangat Gurcharan Singh said, “These handful people are using Trudeau as a weapon to raise the bogey of separatism in India. They have had no base in India and his visit here shouldn’t be seen in perspective of Khalistan.”
 
  
  
 
 He said Trudeau was coming to India with his wife and children and was an honourable guest and should thus be accorded due honour.
 
 At the same time, BJP leader and former minister Luxmi Kanta Chawla said there were reports that separatists often raised Khalistan issue in Canada. “It seems that the Canadian government supports them which is utterly wrong and not in favour of Punjab and India,” she said.
 
 On the eve of Trudeau’s visit, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) former general secretary Kiranjot Kaur in a Facebook posted said, “Sikhs were uprooted from their homes, getting Independence in 1947. In free India, Sikhs had to fight to safeguard their language, culture, religion. We faced state terrorism in 1980s in Punjab and genocide outside Punjab in 1984. The law failed us. We were forced to think of a place of our own where justice and equality would prevail, then we were called Khalistanis. Those who went to Canada to escape police atrocities were blacklisted.”
 
 Though Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) refrained from commenting on the welcome extended to Trudeau in India, party-backed Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSMGC) on Tuesday termed Canadian PM’s reception by the government as “diplomatic cold-heartedness”.
 
 “There is a race to prove four Sikh Canadian ministers as separatists without any evidence. I am of the view that the Indian government should have extended a warm welcome to Trudeau since a large number of Punjabis and Gujaratis lives in Canada,” DSGMC president Manjit Singh GK stated in a press release.
 
 Without naming anyone, he said even in Indian a handful people talking of a Hindu nation have been suggesting to a minority community to migrate to Pakistan. “Similarly a handful of people in Canada talk of Khalistan,” said GK who is also the chief of the Delhi unit of SAD.
 
 He said, “It’s wrong to make opinion about a country on the basis of what a handful talk there. If our government holds Canadian government guilty on this count in the same way other countries would start terming the Indian government a supporter of Hindu Rashtra.”
 
 On the other hand, Punjab CM Amarinder Singh’s friend and SAD (Delhi) chief   and Dal Khalsa have claimed that Trudeau’s visit would strengthen relationships between Sikhs and Canada.
 
 Meanwhile, US-based rights body Sikh For Justice (SFJ) released an old copy of an Ontario court’s order issued on October 24, 2017, regarding extension of time to serve summons to Punjab chief minister Amairnder Singh in a defamation case.
 
 
