PUNE: The Union Budget 2018-19 has failed to live up to the expectations of city-based industrialists, who termed it “lengthy, but without much of depth”.

 “The budget focused on farming and rural economy. However, it failed to address creation of additional capacity or jobs in the manufacturing sector. The reduction in corporate tax is a big thing. Over all, the budget has a lot of length, but not much of a depth as far as the industry is concerned,” president of Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) Pramod Chaudhari said.
 
 PC Nambiar, director, Group EXIM, Serum Institute of India, said the budget concentrated more on rural and social development. “It cannot be called a business or corporate friendly budget,” he added.
 
 Industrialists said there were hardly any surprises in the budget. “The annual budget is not as important as it is made out to be since announcements (about industries) are made throughout the year. However, the reduction in corporate taxes for MSMEs with a turnover of up to Rs 250 crore is a good move and should boost employment in the sector. The introduction of long-term capital gains tax on Rs 1 lakh or more is also encouraging,” KPIT Technologies CFO   said.
 
 Creation of clusters for food processing was termed a good move. “We are hopeful that Pune features as one of the clusters. The 372 reform action points identified at different places should increase the ease of doing business in the country,” director general of   said.
 
 Aspi Kolah, director,  , said, “The FM spoke of so many schemes. I wonder how the government is going to implement them. Also, there needs to be a clarity on how the cess money is being spent. There is a need to hold the government accountable on how they spend this money,” he said.
 
 MCCIA secretary   said while the budget has provided a lot of opportunities for growth in the technology sector, there was no clarity on taxation on investments in startups. “There was also no mention about cyber security or software exporters in the budget speech,” computer expert   said.
 
 
