CHENNAI: The much-needed Single Window online clearances through a single portal for awarding all approvals for industrial projects within a set timeline, as part of Tamil Nadu’s ‘ease of business’ initiative, has taken off despite initial glitches and teething troubles.  , a machine tool manufacturing company based in   district, has become the first to get all required approvals online for its Rs 16.5 crore expansion project.

 A few more companies have applied online through the ‘easybusiness.tn.gov.in’ portal set up by the   for the purpose and the same are under various stages of processing.
 
  
  
 
 While the portal was formally unveiled on November 2 , 2017, the state government had opted for the ordinance route, with the State Governor approving the   Business Facilitation Ordinance 2017 on October 28. With the state assembly set to be convened on January 8, the state government plans to move a   during the session to enable it to become an Act, a senior government official said.
 
 The ordinance facilitated the online linking of 11 government departments under a single portal, with each department given a timeline for processing, taking queries and finally approving a project. The approvals of these departments are mandatory for establishing an industrial project or expansion of an existing project in the state. The timeline varies between 7 – 40 days depending on departments that include  , DTCP, Tangedco, Sipcot and TNPCB, besides department of labour.
 
 “Launched on November 2, the single window portal to facilitate online clearances within a set timeline for approvals has taken off well for heavy industries. Of course, there were some initial glitches and teething problems initially. In cases, where such technical problems occurred, we had to send technicians (manual intervention) to the concerned departments to get it through,”  , executive vice chairperson, Tamil Nadu Industrial Guidance & Export Promotion Bureau told TOI.
 
 While the BFW expansion project was the first to get all required approvals online and within the set timeline, a few more companies have applied through the portal and these applications are under various stages of approval. “While the feedback is now very positive in the case of heavy industries, the MSMEs too will be brought on board the portal within the next few days and thereby make the entire industrial approval process online and transparent,” she added.
 
 
 
