Nagpur: Chancellor Vidyasagar Rao’s nomination of 10 members on Nagpur University’s (NU) Senate has kicked up a controversy. The eligibility and credibility of at least half of the members is yet to be verified, as the names were notified even before submission of the police verification reports. One of the nominated members is Bharatiya Janta Yuva Morcha (BJYM) city president Shivani Dani, who had allegedly created a huge ruckus at NU main building premises on February 14, 2014, and also damaged NU property. Besides Dani, Samir Devidas Parate, Jagdish Joshi, Shrikant Dhondrikar and Vijay Munishwar are the members nominated with the note that their nomination is “subject to verification of antecedents’ reports”. These members are known for their proximity to BJP, RSS and ABVP. Governor’s public relations officer Umesh Kashikar didn’t answer TOI’s calls and SMS. The NU has played safe by issuing two notifications for the nominations. One list has the unverified members while the other list of five members doesn’t carry any riders, though even those nominations have the saffron stamp. Sources informed the five unverified nominations were made under pressure from the RSS-BJP, just like those done by the vice chancellor in the Academic Council. “Since NU is not aware of their background, the five names have been listed separately,” insiders told TOI. As per the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016, 10 persons have to be nominated by the chancellor to the Senate. This law also specifies the required qualifications of the members. Surprisingly, both notifications are silent on qualifications, though mandated by the Act. Contrary to this, the notification of January 23 regarding chancellor’s nominees on Academic Council clearly mentioned the names, designation and organizations of the eight eminent experts. Former NUTA secretary Anil Dhage said the nominations are chancellor’s prerogative, but even he has to abide by the Act. “He has offices at his disposal to verify the credentials. I had seen the list and found that all are new faces, but they are close to people in power. However, there has to be a uniform way of nominating members,” he said. Sources from the Governor’s office said the verification of the five members is in the pipeline. But, they too expressed concern when asked about these members participating in NU affairs. “What impact will their membership have if the Management Council elections are held and they register their votes? Will those elections be held null and void?” they asked.