JAIPUR: The recent bypolls debacle has brought to surface the cracks within the state  , forcing the state party leadership to launch measures for damage control.

 The voices of discontent are growing louder and the blame game over the party’s poor performance in the bypolls murkier. Like in the case of BJP MLA   who has been making controversial statements against the state leadership and party’s candidate from Alwar Jaswant Singh, who is also a cabinet minister. Both the leaders, who belong to the same district, are involved in a war of words. 
 
 Acting on this, the state BJP’s disciplinary committee on Wednesday has decided to forward a report on Ahuja’s controversial statements to the central disciplinary committee. 
 
 On Sunday, an audio clip, in which Ramgarh MLA Ahuja can be heard speaking to one of his supporters over phone after the party’s defeat, went viral. “Yeh to Sarkar hari hai, hum thode hi hare ho (This is the government that has lost, not us),” he could be heard saying. Calling chief minister  , state party president   and Alwar candidate   “badnam” (infamous) he said that he had demanded change of guard in the state. “This was bound to happen; I had already predicted that we will be routed in these elections. If Raje and Parnami are not replaced then BJP will suffer miserably in Rajasthan,” he had said.
 
 Reacting to this, the minister on Tuesday, said that neither the government nor the candidate had lost. ``It is my defeat or CM’s defeat. We failed to read the public sentiment. That is all. I do not know what Ahuja said but as a doctor, I can say that a person who makes a remark which does not help him, his party or his state needs psychiatric treatment,’’ said Yadav, while interacting with media persons in Alwar. This led to Ahuja calling Yadav `mental’. 
 
 On Wednesday, Ahuja said that he sticks to his stand that Yadav was responsible for the party’s defeat in Alwar. ``He could not even manage to win on Behror, which he represents. How can he say that he is not responsible?’’ said Ahuja.
 
 The exchange of allegations has caused much embarrassment for the ruling party, which already stands jolted after losing on three seats in the recent bypolls. The party leadership, amidst reports that big changes in the organisation will soon follow, has decided to initiate disciplinary action against Ahuja to discourage others from speaking out.
 
 
