Nagpur: While partially granting relief to a rape accused, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court said the prosecution must examine the survivor as witness, even if she’s deaf and dumb. It noted that proper procedure to be followed while hearing such cases is to make survivors step into the witness box and put queries to her to assess her maturity, understanding and importance of taking oath. “The queries so put and the answers given/not given (through an interpreter) are required to be recorded by court. Such witness should also be given number. Creation of recording of examination of such a witness to ascertain her maturity and level of understanding is extremely important. It would help any court at original or appellate level to appropriately decide about the question involved,” justice Sunil Shukre said. “Such moves would also provide an opportunity to accused to put forward his defence and if need arises, also mould it. But, if this procedure is not followed, a great prejudice to the defence of accused would be caused. By not following this procedure in this case, I find that such prejudice has indeed occurred to the petitioner’s defence,” the judge tersely stated. Quashing the Chandrapur Sessions Court’s judgment, the HC granted bail to petitioner Manoj Bandarkanthiwar, who was behind bars from March 02, 2015, by furnishing PR bond of Rs50,000. His counsel Mir Nagman Ali was directed to produce him before Chandrapur Sessions Court, where the case was remitted for retrial, on March 12. The petitioner was accused of forcing himself on a mentally retarded girl on March 1, 2015, when she was alone at home. After a complaint by her mother, he was booked under Section 376(2) (1) of IPC and subsequently, sentenced to lifer, which he challenged in HC. Justice Shukre observed that after hearing both sides, he came across a glaring deficiency in the conduct of the trial, which resulted in causing of prejudice to the right of the accused to defend himself properly and effectively. “It’s seen from the trial court judgment that no opportunity has been given to petitioner to assert his right of cross-examination. Some reasons are recorded for allowing the prosecution to not examine her as a prosecution witness. These reasons indicate that an application was moved by the prosecution with a prayer to exempt the survivor from being examined as a prosecution witness,” he said.