NEW DELHI: When 22-yearold Delhi   student   went missing last week and his family received messages demanding Rs 50 lakh, they assumed that the youth had been kidnapped for ransom.

 Over the next three days, the kidnappers set up several meetings for collecting the money but did not turn up. On Wednesday night, the story took a tragic turn and the facts began to emerge.
 
 
  
  
 
 That evening, cops found Ayush’s semi-decomposed body inside a large black bag floating in a drain in sector 13,  . Investigations led the cops to Ayush’s male friend, Ishtyaq, 26.
 
 Police said Ishtyaq, a   working with an export house, told them that he had bludgeoned Ayush to death with a hammer in a fit of rage on March 22, after the third-year BCom student threatened to break up with him. Ishtyaq then cooked up the kidnap story to mislead Ayush’s family and the cops, police said.
 
 Joint commissioner (New Delhi)   told TOI that Ishtyaq has been arrested. A teenager’s role in the crime is also being probed.
 
 Picture of victim sent to authenticate threat
 
 Ayush’s body, which bears injury marks, has been sent to   for an autopsy.
 
 Ayush’s family, which lives in Palam, south-west Delhi, last saw him in the afternoon on March 22, when he was leaving for his college,  , near DU’s south campus. Around 7.50pm, Ayush’s father, Dinesh Chander, received seven-eight Whatsapp messages from his son’s number informing about the kidnapping and the ransom demand.
 
 To authenticate their threat, the kidnappers had sent a picture of Ayush in an orange T-shirt with his eyes covered, hands and mouth tied. There was a bloodstained bandage on his forehead, indicating an injury.
 
 “They demanded the money in 48 hours. My father pleaded with them to give him some more time as it was a big amount and the banks were closed due to public holidays,” the victim’s elder sister Disha Nautiyal said, adding that the kidnappers didn’t budge.
 
 They told Chander that they would message him details of where to come with the money. The kidnappers warned the family that they would risk losing their son if they told anyone, even their relatives, about the kidnapping. The youth’s father subsequently approached the police and a case was registered.
 
 The family members said they were told by the cops to continue conversing with the criminals even as teams started the investigation.
 
 Ayush’s sisters and his father tried calling the kidnappers but found the phone switched off. The caller had also masked the “last seen” details on the Truecaller application.
 
 The next day, Chander again got a message from his son’s number asking him if the money had been arranged. Chander tried to negotiate, saying he had managed to raise Rs 10 lakh. The kidnappers continued to contact the family till March 25, setting up meetings at various places to collect the money but never showed up.
 
 On March 24, they called Chander to Najafgarh. When he was about to reach the designated spot, he got a call asking him to come to Uttam Nagar. Police said Chander went there but didn’t find anyone. The next day, the kidnappers asked the family to put the cash in a garbage bin near a restaurant in Munirka at around 10pm. Again Chander went there with his son-in-law but again returned without being contacted by the kidnappers. The kidnappers discontinued all communication with the family from March 26.
 
 After Ayush’s body was discovered, police then tracked down the suspect, Ishtyaq, and arrested him. He has been taken on police remand for interrogation. Cops have recovered Ayush’s mobile phone used in crime and the car used to dispose of the body.
 
