BHOPAL: Bhopalis who want to watch   will need to catch a bus to Indore. The top-grosser movie is tangled in a bizarre web of mistrust in the state capital, where the administration says it will follow court orders and provide security but cinema owners are unsure officials will keep their word.

 
 
 In Indore, Padmaavat is releasing in multiplexes on Thursday, but Bhopal cinema owners are still in wait and watch mode.   has decided not to screen the film for now, saying they “have not been given a categorical assurance of security by the district collector”. 
 
 Collector Sudam Khade, on the other hand, maintains that the administration will abide by home ministry’s order to provide adequate security to everyone concerned with screening of the film. Bhopal Cine Association secretary Azizuddin, however, told TOI that the film is not being released here because “there is no assurance of security”. “We are not being categorically told that the district administration and police will abide by the high court order in letter and spirit. There is no ban, yet we can’t release the film,” he said.
 
 Owner of Rambha Multiplex Deepak Simbal said, “The state government doesn’t want the film to be released and it reflects in the response of its administration as well. Bhopal administration’s response is not positive towards release of the film, to say the least.” The owner of Rangmahal Talkies said, “We shall not release the film. There are too many glass fittings in my theatre. Who will pay if they are shattered?”
 
 Khade says the home department has ordered all DMs and SPs to provide adequate security for release of the film. “Let them release the film, we shall do our job,” he said. Bhopal DIG Dharmendra Chaudhary promised security to cinemas and multiplexes that screen the film. Even  , which spearheaded the agitation against the movie, seems willing to stand aside. General secretary of the outfit, Deepak Chauhan, ruled out any violent protests if the film is released now.
 
 Asked how the Sena would react if the movie were screened, Chauhan said: “We shall decide in the next two days, but protests will not be as aggressive as earlier because the court is involved now. Any violence would amount to contempt of court, not only for us but also for the state government.”
 
 
 
 
 
