JAIPUR: Positivity, empathy, identification and participation are factors which will help bring about a social change, said   MP Vinay Sastrabuddhe; warning youngsters to stay away from ‘glamorous politics’.

 Sastrabuddhe was addressing a   on `Politics for Development’ in the city on Friday. ``The glamour part will soon fade away,’’ he said. ``PM   has brought in the concept of a   and with this we are moving towards new politics. However, social change is most necessary for this,’’ he said.
 
 Defining positive attitude as one of the primary necessities for social change, he said, ``everyone including media needs to have a positive attitude, which in itself is motivational and inspirational. The positivity in voice should begin at home,’’ he said, going on to speak about the need for empathy, much over sympathy, in politics.
 
 He also talked about the need for identifying with the locals and the crowd. ``If the crowd does not identify you as one of them, it will not be possible to be a leader who brings about a change,’’ he said. The Rajya Sabha MP also said that `vikas’ (development) cannot be attained as a government programme. ``It is a mass revolution and which can be achieved in several different ways. We should not forget that we have evolved as a spiritual democracy and even when it comes to religion, we do not force a way as the only one to reach out to God,’’ he added.
 
 Chief minister  , who was the chief guest, said that there was a need to awaken a sense of pride for our culture, city, state, country to ensure mass participation for a common goan. Speaking on the concept of `Jai Jai Rajasthan’, she said that it was not just a slogan but an attempt to evoke pride, self-respect and public participation in development, which cannot just be the government’s job,’’ she said, adding that it was necessary for people to change their mindset for politics of development.
 
 ``In my recent listening tours, I came across people asking me - `what about us?’ or `how does this benefit me?’ We need to get over that and think collectively,’’ she said. Raje also advised the youngsters to be involved in politics of unity, not division and participate in politics of empowerment. ``Development should reach the last man standing. There should be no division – on basis of class or caste or religion,’’ she said.
 
 The conclave was organised by   in association with Samarthya Sansthan Namami Bharat. A large number of state BJP’s youth wing members attended the conclave.
 
 
