MUMBAI: The   on Friday set up a special three-member   to be headed by a former high court judge to go into the genesis of the recent   at two resto-bars, which had claimed 14 lives. The committee will look into permissions granted, violations and people responsible for the incident, including the involvement of civic officials as well as all “related aspects’’.

 Concerned at the manner in which permissions are granted and the necessity of strict  , a bench of Justices RM Borde and RG Ketkar passed the order to appoint an independent panel after going through municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta’s report. The order came in a PIL filed by retired top cop Julio Rebeiro who sought judicial intervention to prevent similar fatal fires in city eateries and for a thorough audit into the blaze. The report was read out at length by Rebeiro’s counsel Sujay Kantawalla in court to show that even he had said a further inquiry is required on certain aspects of how permissions were granted.
 
  
 The independent committee, which is not a judicial inquiry panel, will also comprise an architect from the high court panel and a town planning expert, who can be a retired bureaucrat. The selection of the committee members will be done on February 23, which is also when its terms of reference would be finalized.
 
 The committee has to give recommendations of steps to be taken in future to ensure fire safety compliance. On Thursday, special civic counsel Anil Sakhare with Trupti Puranik had submitted that there was no need for a judicial inquiry into the fire at   and Mojo’s Bistro on December 29, 2017.
 
 Sakhare had said action was already initiated against 12 civic officials for negligence following a detailed inquiry by the BMC. But the HC, in its Friday order, observed that a “structural audit has to be done”. It said “the committee has to look into all related aspects”. 
 
 The bench also commented on the BMC commissioner’s report in its order. It observed that there is an admission that there are violations, and significantly, said that the aspect of “vicarious liability” of officials cannot be ruled out. There must be relaxations that might have been granted at Kamala Mills and these aspects have to be looked into, the bench suggested.
 
 The HC has also looked at the state’s draft rooftop policy and observed deficiencies that might be required to be looked into. The structural stability of terraces when crowded with people needs to be checked as would the maximum number of people that can be permitted on a rooftop at a time, it said. There are civic guidelines on density at rooftops.
 
 
