There’s yet another big, fat Reddy wedding on the cards. designer  , the grand daughter of GVK Reddy is all set to get married to national racing champion and 
entrepreneur  , the grandson of healthcare honcho C  . The wedding will take place in Hyderabad on July 6. But 
 meanwhile, the couple has flown off to Paris, with close friends and family in tow, where they had a fairytale pre-wedding bash. 
  
  
 LOW-KEY ENGAGEMENT AT HOME, LARGER-THAN-LIFE PRE-WEDDING BASH IN CHANTILLY
 “The families of both the groom and bride wanted this to be an intimate affair, so they kept all the celebrations up to now very low key. Shriya and Anindith were engaged back in April. It was a very small lagna patrika and engagement ceremony at home, where the priests and the grandparents blessed the young couple,” says a source, adding, “The pre-wedding bash in Paris was something we’ve been looking forward to because a big celebration was long overdue.”
 
  
  
 The venue for the lavish event was the historic Château de Chantilly, 50 kms north of Paris. Friends and family members of the couple were flown to the exotic venue where the merry making was spread over a few days. While the girl gang, which included Shriya’s friends and cousins, threw her a cute bachelorette, Anindith had his gang of boys by his side to party away. But the real deal was the spectacular masquerade ball-themed bash on Saturday, which saw Shriya look resplendent in a red Giambattista Valli gown complete with dramatic Marie Antoinette-inspired hair and make-up. très chic. 
  
  
 The dapper groom, in a black tuxedo, complemented his lady love to the hilt. “It was a spectacular event! There was music and dance, fireworks and stunning performances, and the evening was dream-like. Shriya looked every bit a princess and together, she and Anindith make such a gorgeous couple,” said a guest who was at the exclusive event. 
  
  
 A TRADITIONAL   WEDDING in HYDERABAD
 The families of both the bride and the groom are keen on having a traditional Telugu wedding. It well be held in Hyderabad; the ceremonies will be Telangana-style since the groom’s family has roots in Telangana. “In fact, the father of the groom,  , who is an MP from Chevella, will be inviting Sarpanches from the villages of his constituency for the wedding. Traditional Gadwal sarees will be given away as gifts for close family members,” informs a source. 
  
  
 
 
