NEW DELHI: Three years ago, when The Rock called up   from the crowd in a memorable segment at Wrestlemania 31 against Triple H and  , the wheels were set in motion for the eventual debut of the UFC megastar in WWE. And in just over two weeks the Olympic medalist will be one of the top draw attractions at Wrestlemania 34 at the Mercedes Benz Superdome, New Orleans on April 8. 

 
 
 
 For McMahon, this will mark her first appearance as an active performer in nearly four years in the WWE, only her third in nearly 15 years and more importantly, her first Wrestlemania match. The pressure will be on WWE’s Chief Branding Officer to deliver, but equally so on Rousey as well who made her first WWE appearance at the Royal Rumble just over two months ago. 
 
 And the big question in everybody’s mind is, How will Rousey fair in the square circle? While McMahon admits it will be an uphill task for UFC star, she is more than confident that Rousey can pull it off. 
 
 “Talk about pressure; Ronda is one of world’s greatest athlete, she is incredible, but this is Wrestlemania and making your debut on our biggest stage possible, that is incredibly challenging position to be in. But Ronda, I have no doubt is going to rise to the occasion and is going to blow everybody away in terms of what she can do and how she does it,” said McMahon 
 
 
 Another intriguing part of Rousey’s big debut was how would WWE plan this out, how would they cash in on Rousey star power and make it a Wrestlemania spectacle, and that could not have been achieved by pitting her against someone from the women’s division. It had to be big; something really big - Enter McMahon and Triple H. 
  
 “In terms of me being cast in this position, in opposition to her, if you will, I think nobody pays to watch a hero if they don’t have a big fight on their hands, if there is nothing to fight against,” explained McMahon when asked about the backstory to how this match came about. 
 
 She adds, “Because that’s life, our challenge is up against us and you don’t want to see Batman, if there is no Joker for Batman to fight, it would be boring. So I am the Joker to Ronda’s Batman and I think it is important to be the biggest bad guy that you possible can be in order to make for a really good fight. People want to see her get her hands on me ... and she is going to”. 
 
 
