CHANDIGARHThe   and   high court has clarified that the death of a person after a lightning strike cannot be an “act of God” and that such cases should be treated like any other natural calamity.
 
 The court has also said that "lightning can be compared with earthquake and tsunami, for which no person can be held responsible and which may strike at any time".
 
 Justice   passed these orders recently while allowing a petition filed by a   resident who approached the court after local government officials refused to give him compensation for the death of pregnant wife due to lightning. The unborn child was also killed in the accident. According to the state government, lightning was not defined as a natural calamity.
 
  and his wife were both working as labourers at a brick kiln on January18, 2009, when she was struck by lightning and died.
 
 
  had approached the Tarn Taran deputy commissioner for compensation stating that his financial condition was poor and that he was not in a position to bring up his two children by himself.
 
 His request was turned down because lightning is usually seen as a single event rarely affecting people in groups like cyclones, droughts, earthquakes, fires, floods, tsunamis, hailstorms, landslide, cloudbursts, pest attack, cold wave and frost do.
 
 The court, however, said, “The lightning causes death because heavy current passes through the body, damaging several parts and largely affects the poor people of the lower strata who work in open even during the rain. Therefore, I hereby hold that lightning is a natural calamity which, all of a sudden, causes loss of life and it is the duty of the state to protect the human life, in terms of Article 21 of the Constitution, and if it is not so, then at least to compensate the families who suffer the loss of their breadwinners or others by way of payment of compensation from the Natural Calamities Relief Fund,” held the judge.
 
 The court observed, “In the layman words, lightning is an act of God, which means a natural hazard outside human control, which can easily be compared with earthquake and tsunami, for which no person can be held responsible and which may strike at any time without any prior warning.”
 
 The court directed the Tarn Taran administration to consider Lakhwinder’s case and award appropriate compensation, keeping in view the age of his deceased wife and her monthly income within a period of three months.
 
