GURUGRAM: The daughter of a   driver scored 96.8% in   Haryana board exams. Anu Rathore, a student of Government Senior Secondary School, Kasan, scored 484 out of 500 in the humanities stream. 

 
 The   (BSEH) released the Class 12results on Friday.
 
 “Anu has come fourth in the state and she has topped the arts stream from Gurugram. She has been a bright student and could always be spotted with books,” said Dilawar Deswal, principal, Government Senior Secondary School, Kasan. 
 
 The 18-year-old said she started preparing for the board exams a year in advance. “I didn’t go to any coaching classes to prepare for my board exams. I self studied and relied on   books,” said Anu. “People say that students can’t clear board exams without taking any tuition classes, but I have done exactly that. My family could not afford money for tuition, so I never thought of even taking one,” she added.
 
 Her father, Gajraj Singh Rathore, drives a tempo. He barely makes enough to make the ends meet. “Every month, my father earns enough to feed us. I have two other younger brothers, one is in Class 10 and the other is a student of Class 5. When I was in Class VIII, I had read an article in a newspaper of an auto driver’s daughter clearing the exam of Chartered Accountant. I knew then that I wanted to do something similar. I have always focussed on my studies and nothing else,” she said.
 
 Anu never had any friends. She kept herself aloof so that she could focus on her studies.
 
 The youngster attributed her success to her family whom she calls her rock-solid support. Anu said, “My parents never pressurised me to join a job to supplement the family’s income. Instead, they always encouraged me to study further, which is why I was able to complete my schooling.”
 
 She said her aim was not to become the city topper, but to turn the fortunes of her family. According to her, if she studies further, she’ll be able bring her family out of poverty. “I want to become a lecturer, earn a decent amount and buy a new house for my family. I don’t like my father driving a tempo. When I earn enough, I will ensure that he doesn’t have to do such a job,” said Anu.
 
 She hasn’t applied to any college presently, but she is dreaming of getting admission to Delhi’s St. Stephen’s College.
 
  “I have heard that St. Stephen’s is the best college in Delhi. It’s my dream to study there. I would like to pursue English honours,” Anu said.
 
 
