 minister Arun Jaitley announced a number of measures to address rising farm distress. The big move seems to be on moving minimum support prices above 50% of cost. He specifically said, “Madam Speaker, in our party’s manifesto it has been stated that the farmers should realise at least 50% more than the cost of their produce, in other words, one-and-a-half times of the cost of their production.

 
 Government have been very much sensitive to this resolution and has declared minimum support price ( ) for the majority of rabi crops at least oneand-a-half times the cost involved. Now we have decided to implement this resolution as a principle for the rest of crops.”
 
 This is being hailed as a game-changer. What is not clear in this statement is whether the government is thinking of cost C2 (the comprehensive cost of the farmer), or only Cost A2+FL (paid-out costs plus imputed wage of family labour). If it is the latter, it was always higher than 50% for most of rabi crops for the last 10 years.
 
 Even in 2013-14, the last year of the previous government, MSP for wheat was 106% higher than its Cost A2+FL; for rapeseed mustard it was 133% higher, and for gram 73% higher.
 
 So, there is nothing new in this announcement. Claiming this to be the most historic decision is putting one self and the farmers in an illusion. The farm stress with this announcement will not go away an inch.
 
 The demand of the farming community and the recommendation of the   was 50% above Cost C2, which would require a jump in MSP of, say, paddy and soyabean by 44%, of maize by 47%, of groundnut by 38%, and of long staple cotton by 52%.
 
 This would have severe implications for food inflation, food subsidy, and distortions in cropping patterns. I don’t think that this type of cost plus pricing is feasible, without giving consideration to the demand side.
 
 Other measures such as creation of Rs 10,000-crore fund for fisheries and animal husbandry are steps in the right direction, but one does not see that allocation in the expenditure  . Will it be raised by NABARD, and for how many years, is not clear from the speech of the finance minister. One will have to wait and watch to get its details.
 
 Also, agri-marketing infrastructure fund of Rs 2,000 crore, and Rs 500 crore fund for Operation Green for tomatoes, onions and potatoes (TOP), and tax concession to FPOs, solarpowered irrigation with facility to put surplus power back into the grid, are all steps in the right direction, but they will take time to deliver.
 
 The finance minister did mention that   (direct benefit transfer) has been a great success, and India is running the biggest DBT programme in the world. But unless food and fertiliser subsidies are put in DBT, it will remain a partial success. The current method of giving fertiliser subsidy is not really DBT. The money needs to go directly to beneficiary accounts, and the fertiliser sector set free of controls. Only then will the industry and farmers both gain.
 
 In brief, the Budget takes steps in the right direction, but MSP claims of 50% higher than cost, by scaling down the concept of cost itself to Cost A2+FL, is not going to be helpful to farmers.
 
 (Ashok Gulati, ICRIER)
 
