Visakhapatnam: The city has witnessed a reduction in crime rate this year as compared to 2017, but this comes as no solace to the city police as over 400 cases of crime have been registered within the first four months of this year - an indication that there still remains much to be done on the law and order front.

 Police officials said there are some notorious burglary gangs who are on the   in the port city, waiting to break into homes of people who are travelling out of the city during the summer vacations.
 
 Police have already launched a hunt for these gangs, whose modus operandi happens to be diverting the victim’s attention. Some of these gangs are the Ramjinagar gang, chaddi gang, and gangs from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and neighbouring Odisha. According to police, some of these gangs have already entered the city.
 
 According to sources, though there was a reduction of 40% in the number of crimes when compared to the first four months of 2017, the city nevertheless witnessed over 400 crimes of various natures including burglaries, break-ins during the day as well as night, two-wheeler thefts and others. The number of cases registered in 2015 stood at 1,540 while the number was 1,748 in 2016. Around 1,740 crimes were reported in in 2017 including murders and robberies.
 
 Last year alone, anti-social elements stole 560 two-wheelers and committed 24 major robberies. The public too remains largely unaware regarding the locked house monitoring system launched by the city police commissionerate. The police department is also unable to live up to the mark in implementing these initiatives due to technical and financial challenges, according to sources. 
 
 Burglaries were high in the last week of March and the first week of April in the city. Police reportedly nabbed many gangs in the first four months of this year. 
 
 “We are keeping track of suspicious movements of notorious gangs of other states in the city. They are waiting for an opportunity to strike. Once the summer vacations start and people travel to other cities and towns, they are poised to strike at will,” a senior police officer said.
 
 Apart from this, there were 560 active offenders who committed crimes of various natures in the city who were released from jail. “We have jail release monitoring system. Now, the number of juveniles involved in crimes are on the rise. We should focus on juvenile crimes too,” he added. 
 
 The Central Crime Station (CCS) assistant commissioner of police Y Govinda Rao told TOI that city police chief T Yoganand and DCPs are repeatedly advising their men to be careful while delivering duties. 
 
 “With the previous experiences and offences in the city, we have been tracking habitual offenders and old offenders too. Simultaneously, city cops are focusing on gangs of various states having a previous record in the city. People should also take proper security measures and also inform cops about their vacations, so that cops can take extra precautions,” he said. 
 
 Police are advising the public to refrain from posting status updates on social media detailing their holidays. “It has become trendy among many people to flaunt their holidays and fancy vacations on social media, little knowing that these burglary gangs too are watching their profiles. Should any gang stumble across information that a family is not at home, they will immediately conduct a recce and break into the house and steal valuables,” a crime wing inspector said.
 
 
