RAJKOT: In a brutal case of honour killing, a pregnant woman was allegedly murdered by her parents and brother in a village of Amreli district as she had married a man from a different community against their wishes.

 The woman   (25), who belongs to the Koli community, had fled with her lover Prakash Khetaria, a Dalit in November last year and got married. While Dadukia’s family was dead against their relationship, Khetaria’s parents did not have any serious objection. However, the couple stayed away from both houses for few days without anyone coming to know about their location. They feared violent backlash from Dadukia’s family.
 
 According to police,   and Khetaria came to   village near Amreli town few days ago and started living with the latter’s family. On Wednesday, Dadukia’s parents and brother saw her going to hospital with her mother-in-law. They immediately rushed towards the duo and dragged Dadukia home by pulling her hair on the road.
 
 Khetaria’s mother immediately called him up and he rushed to Dadukia’s house. When he reached there, her father Bhanu hurled casteist abuses and threatened to kill him by brandishing a knife. Talking to TOI, Khetaria said, “I called up on the Abhayam women’s helpline. When their team reached Dadukia’s house, they only found an old woman and her maternal aunt there. They even asked me to furnish proof of our marriage.”
 
 Dadukia’s parents and brother had taken her to a deserted house outside the village and strangulated her till she died. Khetaria got to know that Dadukia was lying there and he informed police. She was rushed to the hospital but declared dead on admission. 
 
 H H Segalia, investigating officer, Amreli rural police station confirmed that Dadukia’s family was not willing to accept their relationship because they were from different castes. “Dadukia was three months pregnant. Bhanu, his wife Hansa and son Bakul are absconding after killing her and Khetaria has lodged a complaint against them,” he added.
 
 Khetaria and his family have refused to accept Dadukia’s body until the accused are arrested. 
 
 
