PORVORIM: Taking a very firm stance against the   called by tourist   operators, chief minister  , on Wednesday, said operators could lose their licences if they resorted to violence. Transport minister Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar termed the strike ‘illegal’ and warned of strict action against any unlawful activity. 

 During a meeting at the ministerial block at the secretariat Parrikar discussed safety measures and implications of the statewide strike. 
 
 “If anyone commits violence, he will be taken to task,” Parrikar told reporters after the meeting, adding that Goa police have been instructed to ensure that law and order is maintained.
 
 “If you don’t want to ply your taxi, it is your choice. But if you commit violence, there will be consequences,” Parrikar said. “First, the person will be debarred from any government subsidy in future. Criminal cases will be filed against the persons. Number three, if the nature of the offence is serious, then the person’s licence will be in jeopardy,” he added.
 
 Stating that cameras will be capturing all the activities, the transport minister said, “We have always supported the taxi operators. Even when they had an issue with the   direction to implement speed governors, we gave them a chance by continuously extending the deadline by three-three months. Yet, they have declared the strike. If they continue to play foul like this, we will cancel their subsidies.” 
 
 He said the installation of digital meter system on tourist taxis was delayed for six years while installation of speed governors was delayed by two years owing to several requests made by taxi operators. “But now, the implementation of speed governors has begun and it must be strictly followed,” he said.
 
 Asked if they will crack the whip on MLAs supporting the cause of taxi drivers, Dhavalikar said, without taking any names, “All politicians have their own supporters. I don’t think ministers will come on the roads, but if MLAs or their supporters come on the roads, then the government will act. If anyone blocks the people from commuting, they will face the law. What action will be taken against them, I cannot specify at this stage because it’s a hypothetical question.”
 
 The North Goa Tourist Taxi Owner’s Association and the South Goa Tourist Taxi Owner’s Association will go on strike on Friday to oppose the installation of speed governors on taxis and also to protest alleged harassment at the hands of transport officials.
 
 Transport minister, senior Goa police officers, bureaucrats and representatives from Travel and Tourism Association of Goa were present for the meeting.
 
 
