THANE: Cracking the whip on fradulently-run   in the city, the civic health department has ordered a fresh count of all diagnostic centres in Thane and has laid stringent registration norms for them. 

 This move comes after the department has received several complaints about faulty reports being issued by technicians who pose as pathologists. 
 
 They are believed to be hand-in-glove with a some quacks. TMC’s medical health officer Dr.   said that the administration will update their data on the actual number of privately-managed pathology laboratories, along with the names and qualification of the medical professionals who run them.
 
 A civic fatwa has been issued to all labs to compulsorily register their units by the end of April. Moreover, the medical professionals will have to follow certain norms while registering their laboratories. The list of the pathology laboratories will be put on the   website. 
 
 During registration, the pathologists will have to produce their certificates affiliated with the Maharashtra medical council and even mention the time as to when they will be available in the labs. They would even have to provide the registered lease deed agreement, an   from the fire department and other necessary documents.
 
 “This move will ensure that there are no fake pathology laboratories operating in the city. Also, laboratories which do not register themselves will be charged a fine of Rs 50 for each day till they register and if we come across any bogus labs then they will be sealed,” said Dr. Kendre.
 
 He said that until recently it was not mandated for the pathology labs to register their unit with the TMC. However, the growing incidents of faulty medical reports compelled the administration to clamp down on illegal operators. “The registration will not just give us data but will help keep a watch on labs and their activities. In some centres, HSC-pass technicians were hired to conduct tests and hand over medical reports of patients. Now, we will be able to keep a tab on whether a qualitied medico is carrying out the blood, urine, bone test, organ checks or not,” said Dr. Kendre.
 
 
