LUDHIANA: As Women’s Day is being celebrated on Thursday, this 37-year-old Harvard-educated   has not only defeated the disease, but is running a centre for autistic children in a private school. Neha Bhasin Madhok is a fighter, literally! She has fought cancer, done courses to take care of her autistic son during her chemotherapy, and is also guiding autistic children affected families in the city.

 On International Women’s Day, she has a message for women who are either battling with the disease, or are depressed because of the pulls and pressures of their lives. “It is essential to celebrate a day for women, as the world is run by women and generations are produced by her. Also, the progress of a single family unit depends on the mother, who shoulders a huge responsibility. As a cancer survivor, I must share one thing with women — I started valuing every moment of life after I was diagnosed with the disease, and I push myself to value lives around me. I also acknowledged the fact that happiness is life’s biggest goal, and one must do everything that brings happiness,” said Neha, an autism advocate and lifestyle blogger.
 
 She added: “I will say that when you are a parent, there is no choice of breaking down as a parent, and as a mother. Whatever the circumstances, you need to pick and move on. Sometimes, when you feel depressed, like when I see my son and think why he has stopped speaking, I take refuge in meditation. That brought me some kind of super power and energy, which was actually inside me. Now, I pray to God to please give me strength.”
 
 On Women’s Day, Neha feels great that not only has she defeated the disease, but in January, she had also set up a no-profit centre for autistic children with the support of her family and school authorities. “Today, we have eight autistic children, of whom we are taking special care. We have three teachers and consultants for sports, special education, occupational therapy, speech therapy, and READY (Reach Every Ambition by Developing Yourself) programme,” said Neha, a fitness enthusiast.
 
 The advocate for autistic kids said her son Abeer Madhok was born around nine years ago, “but when he was just 22 months old, we came to know about his condition.” She added that after he was diagnosed with autism, they did not panic, but tried to take action. Neha further said because she wanted to give the best care to her son, she opted for Relationship Development Intervention (RDI) from an American institute, which focuses on parenting of such children. She added that even as she was undergoing the programme, she was diagnosed with high-grade breast cancer in June 2015.
 
 “Normally cancer has a negative impact on the psychology of a person, but I took it in my stride and got down to working avidly during and after my chemos. I restarted RDI training after my cancer was diagnosed, as I could not leave the house, and later I even did a course from the   (IAHP) in Philadelphia, which focuses on achieving intellectual, physical, and nutritional excellence in brain-injured and well children, including autistic children,” said the lifestyle blogger, who is the daughter of a renowned businessman. “I want to teach him every sport, and he is doing good. And I’m also learning various types of sports now, having becoming stronger after being diagnosed with cancer.”
 
 
 
 
 1. Aston University, Birmingham, UK: Masters in Business Administration, 2006
 
 2. Fashion Institute of Technology, NY, USA, Spring 2005: Textiles — Advanced Fabrication, Digital and Fashion Photography.
 
 3. Harvard University, Cambridge, USA, Summer 2003: International Business (Graduate Credit. Grade awarded B). Still Photography (GC. Grade awarded A minus). Business Communication.
 
 4. Panjab University, Chandigarh: Bachelor’s Degree in Commerce, April 2002
 
 
