NAGPUR: To mark the birth anniversary of Rashtrasant Tukdoji   which is known as Gram Jayanti and to bring forth his teachings and thoughts, the Nagpur University had organized a lecture on ‘Rashtrasantanni dilela sandesh ha ...’ at NU convocation hall, on Monday. The lecture was delivered by poet, writer and orator Prashant Maharaj Thakare from Morgaon (Kakad), Akola.

 He began by saying, “Rashtrasant’s life began with well-being of mankind. He never even owned or celebrated his own birthday, rather he urged the people to celebrate it as Gram Jayanti.”
 
 “Knowing and identifying are two different acts. A lot of people know Rashtrasant but very few really identify his personality. He maintained his sainthood while thinking about the nation at the same time. That’s why he is called Rashtrasant. Hence, Rashtrasant is not a title but a symbol of competency.”
 
 Thakare recited several verses from different bhajans composed by Rashtrasant Tukdoji which made his teachings to be well communicated. “Unlike other bhajans Tukdoji’s bhajans focused on nation and humanity,   or being devotional. He spoke of all the small yet significant aspects in life such as education, proper sleep, simple diet, cleanliness, marriage, etc. No one has ever touched such simple elements in life through bhajans. He never dreamt of the heaven above the sky but believed in creating a heaven for people on the Earth,” he said.
 
 Thakare said that Rashtrasant is not a subject to view, talk and write about but a way of life. “The society will become a better place to live in if everybody followed the Rashtrasant’s teachings. The saint’s teachings bear words of wisdom for one and all, as they deal with the intricacies of day-to-day life. If practised properly, his teachings can do wonders for a person in particular and society in general.”
 
 Thakare also spoke about Rashtrasant’s message to youth citing the importance of parents. “Parents play a pivotal role in shaping the child’s future or for that matter youth’s future. Their expertise and guidance is like a perfect blend of education and life for the young ones,” he said.
 
 He concluded by saying that Rashtrasant’s message to everyone, be it a politician or a businessman or anyone else, was only to look for the wellness of the society in whatsoever one does.
 
 Nagpur University vice-chancellor SP Kane presided the programme and pro-VC Pramod Yeole was the chief guest.
 
 
