HYDERABAD: Throwing Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) norms to the wind, at least 123 illegal layouts have sprung up in and around  . The unauthorised layouts, which have no roads and drains, are letting off sewage into the 14 lakes, including Nakka Vagu which finally drains into  , in the area. A case, filed by   activist Thakur Raj   of Human Rights & Consumer Protection Cell Trust against the illegal layouts, is scheduled to come up before the National Green Tribunal on March 19.

 Raj Kumar Singh alleged, “All 123 illegal layouts are located in Ameenpur of   mandal in various survey numbers. One of the ventures has come up on government land. Despite repeated complaints, HMDA is not acting. They conduct a namesake drive and close the complaint. It was only after a petition was filed before the NGT that the state government has declared Ameenpur lake as a biodiversity heritage site.”
 
 
 Ameenpur is rich in biodiversity with 13 water bodies, hilllocks with old trees, which have colonies of bats, and an age-old Lord Shiva Temple.
 
 Enquiries with the Ameenpur gram panchayat have revealed that the layouts do not have HMDA layout approval and the buildings too came up without any permission.
 
 “Letting out drainage from the neighbouring colonies and the industries into the lake, closure of all feeder channels, encroachments of the catchment area of full tank level and encroachment of the land abutting the lake is causing huge environmental damage. These unauthorised layouts have violated all development norms and, more importantly, environmental norms such as maintenance of open spaces, parks, playgrounds, amenities areas, setbacks, minimum road width, garbage and sewerage disposal systems. We did not find a single   in any of the 123 layouts, and all the colonies empty their drainage into the nearby flood water nala, thereby causing severe damage and pollution to the water bodies,” Singh added.
 
 HMDA commissioner T Chiranjeevulu said a large number of illegal layouts have come up in Ameenpur and that the agency had started a demolition drive. “It has come to my notice regarding. Several illegal layouts have mushroomed in Ameenpur. For the past one week, our teams are carrying out demolitions,” the HMD chief added.
 
