KOCHI: The   on Tuesday expunged from   Enquiry Commission’s report the allegations raised by accused   in a letter written while in jail. The allegations were the main stay of the Commission's report.

 
 The court considered the pleas of former chief minister   and former minister Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan to quash the Commission’s report, which had included the allegations in the letter as evidence.
 
 A single bench comprising justice AK Jayasankaran Nambiar delivered the judgment after considering two petitions filed by the former CM and the minister. While the court has partly allowed Oommen Chandy’s petition, by directing for expunging the allegations raised by Saritha through the letter, which were part of the Commission’s report, petition filed by Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan was dismissed by the court.
 
 Questioning the Commission’s decision to treat a letter written by solar scam accused Saritha S Nair while in jail as evidence, they had alleged that the Commission travelled beyond the scope of its terms of reference and based its findings solely on Saritha’s letter.
 
 Oommen Chandy’s petition had stated that the findings of the Commission on the basis of Saritha’s letter is arbitrary and is absolutely in violation of his fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 21 (Right to life and personal liberty) of the Constitution, which includes his right to privacy.
 
 By placing the report before the Kerala Legislative Assembly, Saritha’s letter and the “pernicious references” about his public life has become part of records, the former CM had pointed out.
 
 In addition to the conduct of the Commission, the actions taken by the Commission pursuant to the report also severely affected his reputation and that of others, the petition had stated.
 
 Saritha’s letter, which was allegedly written on July 19, 2013 while in police custody, was included as evidence by the Commission. By accepting it as evidence, the Commission endeavoured to analyse it without serving a notice to him, Oommen Chandy had alleged.
 
 Without tabling the Commission’s report as required by law, the government had conducted a press conference on October 11th last year and issued a press note that was per se defamatory, the Congress leaders had contended.
 
 Along with seeking an order quashing the Commission’s report, the Congress leaders had sought a gag order restraining reporting of the contents and discussion and publication of the letter.
 
 
