CHANDIGARH:   (PU) has ranked number 130 — up from last year’s 135th — in the   (THE) Emerging Economies University Ranking 2018, a slight improvement but not enough to please the vice-chancellor.

 
 Prof   said PU needs to work on improving studentteacher ratio and start tracking its alumni. “It would have been an improvement if we would have jumped to first 50. We are in the same bracket of 130 to 135. It is not proper to attach significance to this kind of improvement. It is also not proper to add significance if the number had gone from 135 to 140. I am also not too happy that it is 130. One should be happy if there is a real significant change. All this is based on the last five years’ data. One-year incremental change won’t get a real difference in the rank,” said Grover.
 
 
  
 
 PU stands at number 12 among Indian institutions in the rankings.
 
 The performance indicators include teaching (learning environment); research (volume, income and reputation); citations (research influence); international outlook (staff, students and research); and industry income (knowledge transfer).
 
 The citation score of PU is 55.5, higher than the top ranker IISC, Bangalore. However, its research score is 8.6 and taking the lead, IIS has scored 48.6 in the research parameter.
 
 PU has an overall score of 26.6 with 27.1 in teaching, 31.8 in industry income and 16 in international outlook. At number 32, the university had got the highest ranking among Indian universities in THE Asia University Rankings for 2014. Following this, the university had had lost the top position in THE Asia University Rankings for 2015 to IISC, Bangalore, when it slipped from 32 to 38. When the university had scored the highest among Indian institutions in 2014, the citation score was 84.7.
 
 
 
 
 
 On improving the research of PU, Grover said, “If you start doing good research today, its citations will build up only if the research is of good quality and people accept that research is of good quality. So, research also cannot improve your rank suddenly. It will take some time.”
 
 M Rajivlochan, director, internal quality assurance cell, Panjab University, said, “This high ranking is the consequence of PU having succeeded in systematizing its department-level data better than earlier years. Whatever slippages were there we have been able to sort them out.”
 
