Fame, success, money — if you look at it through the eyes of an outsider, an actor has everything. However, beneath the glitz and glamour lie a lot of harsh realities. Hectic schedules, the pressure of ratings and long commutes to far-off sets end up taking a toll on actors’ physical and mental well-being. So, even as they entertain us at the end of a long tiring day and relieve us of our stress, the fact is that most television actors are dealing with acute stress themselves. 
Recently, BT brought you an exclusive report about   and  , the lead couple of 'Aisi Deewangi...Dekhi Nahi Kahi', quitting the show because of the undue mental strain caused by their producers’ alleged inhuman treatment. They are not an exception. In recent years, it has been noted that an increasing number of TV actors are complaining of high stress levels.
 
 Stress can be caused by various factors, so the first step towards solution is always counselling. Taking stock of the deteriorating mental health and increasing complaints from their members, Cine and TV Artistes’ Association ( ) has decided to hold counselling sessions for aggrieved members. The first one, a three-day session, will be held on February 20, 21 and 22. 
 
 Sushant Singh, General Secretary of CINTAA, says, “After actress Pratyusha Banerjee’s (of ' ' fame) untimely demise two years ago, actor   volunteered and conducted a life-coaching session. But after that, no more initiatives were taken in that regard. However, the current committee members are active and they want to improve the situation for their colleagues. Our committee member Nupur Alankar, who counsels her co-actors and unit members on the sets of her TV shows, offered to conduct counselling sessions with a friend. Along with counselling, our sessions will also offer tips on physical and mental well-being, stress management, and a healthy diet.” 
 
 While there have been several cases of actors undergoing emotional strain in the recent past, it was Pranav and Jyoti’s case that turned out to be a wake-up call. Says Sushant, “Can you imagine, they didn’t even have the time to register a complaint against the makers. Pranav’s wife and Jyoti’s fiancé came to us to report the grievance on their behalf. We were shocked to learn about their stress levels from their doctors. Such is the plight of a daily soap artiste, who doesn’t get a holiday easily, as he/she is the face of the show. I still remember when I had met actress   during the shoot of her show 'Santoshi Maa', she pleaded with me to help her get a holiday, as she hadn’t seen her parents in a year. Nobody adheres to the 12-hour shift, as we have to meet tight deadlines. The sets are also erected so far that it takes at least a couple of hours to reach. To sum it up, an actor doesn’t have time for himself, his family or a social life. Hence, I found this idea remarkable and we have in-house resources to take care of it.” 
 
 While Sushant is aware that not many actors will be able to attend the counselling sessions, given their tight schedule, he is hoping for better attendance gradually. He says, “The ones who are really stressed, unko shayad time hi nahi milega aane ko. So, we have decided to hold the sessions at CINTAA office and eventually, we will visit sets to counsel the whole unit. Hopefully, producers will agree to give their crew an hour-long break for the session. We will also collaborate with other unions on this endeavour.”
 
 Nupur Alankar, the brain behind this initiative, says, “Since a long time, the industry’s working conditions have been taking a toll on people’s health. After Pranav and Jyoti’s case, we felt that it’s imperative to prepare the young actors to deal with hectic schedules and stress. Long working hours, wrong diet and timings, and erratic schedules weaken your immune system gradually. So, we thought it would be better to counsel such actors and help them handle stress at an early stage of their career. While Jyoti is not in town, one of her family members will be there for the session. Pranav, too, is keen on attending it. We will have a team of doctors, psychiatrists and healers.” 
 
 
