JAIPUR: The   (DLB) has sought an explanation from the company for slow pace of the project which was to providing   facility at   (ULB). The work was part of chief minister’s ambitious  .

 To provide relief to thousands of residents, the department has decided to go online in Jaipur and ULB and issue online building plan permission, online cash collection, birth, death and marriage registration certificates etc.
 
 Director of the local bodies department and joint secretary   said, “We are reviewing the progress of the firm and primarily we are not satisfied with the performance,” he said.
 
 While, the department is willing to take action against the firm, sources claimed, it is not solely the firm’s mistake as government support, including the database was not provided on time.
 
 As contracted firm delivered only 60% work, that too of Phase-I in three years, the department has sought explanation and an action plan to deliver work on time.
 
 A senior official at DLB said, “We will ask the firm to submit a concrete action plan to complete the project within one month. If firms fails to give a satisfactory reply, we would take necessary action,” he added.
 
 On April 2015, the DLB had appointed the firm for launching many online projects under Smart Raj in a phased manner. The deadline to complete the Phase-I, was set February 4, 2017.
 
 As per the contract conditions, under the phase I, the firm had to provide online system at   (JMC) and 25-B category ULBs. Under the same phase, between August 5, 2017 and November 4, the online system was proposed to be developed in 43, C- categories ULB. Similarly, the development work of category 122, D-ULBs was proposed to be completed between November 5, 2017 and August 4, 2018. However, the firm has not completed 60% of the proposed work for which contract was provided.
 
 A source at DLB said, the Building Plan Approval System (BPAS), project was first launched on June 8, 2016. However, many local bodies highlighted practical problems in implementing the online system. Thereafter, the BPAS again launched on October 1, 2017, following directions from the state government. It has been six months now, but there is no progress on this front.
 
 The project was aimed at pushing the ‘ease of doing business’ in the state. At the time of launch, the residents were assured that they won’t have to undergo the tormenting bureaucratic processes for acquiring several licences and approvals from different departments.
 
 In fact, it was claimed that the applicants won’t not even have to visit a single government office as all approvals would be provided online through Smart Raj portal. Official further said, in Phase II and Phase III was not even started by the firm.
 
 
