He has a masters degree in robotics, but   found composing music to be his calling and decided to pursue his passion. Born and brought up in Chennai, the youngster has scored the music for a Swedish film, an American documentary and is all set to launch his first music album. We caught up with the musician for a chat…

 
 My family is first-generation entrepreneurs and has nothing to do with music, though my mother has trained in Carnatic music for a few years. I did my schooling in Vidya Mandir and my undergrad, in mechanical engineering, in  . I have a background in western classical piano, which I learnt from Augustine Paul. I have also learnt Carnatic music, with Dr   as my mentor. My desire for storytelling is what got me into film composition. I started composing music for films in the first year of my college — as a hobby. I was not part of a college band, but I was composing music with my friend, Akshay. We were doing independent albums. This was in 2011-12. And somewhere down the line, I realised that background scoring was my favourite. It was the best medium for me to express myself and narrate a story convincingly.
 
 
 There was a short film, titled Jilebi, for which I had done the music. It was released by Karthik Subbaraj’s company. We got really good reviews for its background score and that is when it hit me that I can really convincingly say a story. That’s when I also realised that I could take up this as a career, and not stop with it as just a hobby. In fact, I listen to background scores more than film songs.
 
 
 My interest in them grew just after I finished school and was stepping into college, and I’ve been honing my skills since then. My huge inspiration is Hans Zimmer. I’ve grown up listening to him, analysing his music.  , and of course, John Williams are also favourites. Thanks to having watched movies from a young age, I think I had the sense to decide when to score and what to score. I use minimal sounds in my scores. I don’t believe in making scores sound grand. A score has to elevate the scene — that’s the most important thing for me, not how many instruments I use or what instrument I use. My forte is background music, and that’s how I’ve been working in international projects.
 
 
 I was travelling to Amsterdam from Stockholm on a flight. There was a young man, almost my age, sitting next to me. He was part of the sound design team of a Swedish film, and he said that they were looking out for a composer. We just hit it off, and I sent my work to the production team. They liked it and called back. The pilot of the film was scored over email and Skype. I was constantly in touch with the director. Music is all about emotions, not about language, so it was possible. An American film team had heard my work on this film, and roped me in for their film.
 
 
 It’s a documentary biopic called One23, and is about an African American gentleman called Rahfeal ‘RahGor’ Gordon. He had a wild time as a kid, being a black American, but today, he is an advisor to global leaders, an entrepreneur and an author. The film is doing the festival circuit in the US and Europe.
 
 
 I am currently working on another Swedish film, and I am about to start work on an American feature film. I am also doing a show for a streaming platform in Tamil. Apart from these, I’m also busy with my independent music album. It’s a fusion between Indian classical and international pop. It is titled Obrigado, a Portuguese word that means ‘Thank you’. It features singers Karthik, Haricharan and Aalaap Raju. The theme is ‘life’ and how we have to be grateful to it. One song is called Kanave, which is about a dreamer and his dream, which Haricharan has sung. I am also introducing two new talents — Sruthilaya and  , who is from Canada. They have sung the third song in the album, which is called Obrigado. I’ve also sung a song in the album. I’m also in talks with filmmakers here. 
 
 
