LUDHIANA: Even a month after the notification for regularization of  , not a single developer has come forward to get the unauthorized colonies regularized. Neither Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (Glada) nor   (MC) has received applications under this policy so far. However, officials claim the policy has given four months time to developers or plot holders for regularization, but some of them are even misguiding other developers or plot holders by saying the government will change this policy, so they should wait for some time.

 The Department of Housing and Urban Development of the state government had notified the regularization policy on April 20, and under this policy, colonies constructed before 19 March this year are supposed to be regularized. Therefore, colonies constructed after this date will be demolished, and developers of these colonies will face the heat. Developers who get their colonies regularized under this policy will also have to get them registered with the   (Rera) within the next few months by getting the regularization certificate from the departments concerned. Regularization is necessary even for individual plots, and if developers do not come forward, then residents are supposed to form a residents’ welfare association and get the colonies regularized.
 
 Moreover, developers will have to apply fresh under this policy, even if their files were pending or rejected in the previous three regularization policies between 2013 to 2016. Due to these conditions, people are not coming forward for the same. Glada estate officer (Regulatory)   said they were hopeful of receiving applications under the policy, but as of now, nobody had submitted the documents in the past one month. He said they would have to wait for another three months before taking any action against developers, but they are keeping a check on the mushrooming of new illegal colonies.
 
 Meanwhile, MC assistant town planner (headquarters) Surinder Singh   said: “We have not received even a single application from developers or plot holders in the previous one month. But we are recommending action against new illegal colonies with the police and district administration.” 
 
 
 
