THRISSUR: The city and surrounding areas have plunged into a festive mood as the flag was hoisted for the 58th edition of the state school youth festival on Friday. The director of public instruction   hoisted the flag at a function attended by education minister C   and agriculture minister V S   Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the five-day festival at the main venue located at the historic Thekkinkadu Maidan on Saturday.

 Preparations are complete for the Asia’s biggest cultural festival which will feature competitions by about 12,000 students from various schools in the 14 districts of the state. The venues for holding the competitions in 231items, including performing art forms like dance, music and theatre, are also ready.
 
 A cultural procession proclaiming the arrival of the festival was held on Friday evening. Raveenranath and Sunilkumar inaugurated the cultural procession by beating the traditional drums placed on a bullock cart. Thrissur Range IG M R Ajitkumar flagged off the procession.
 
 An interesting facet of this edition of the festival is that the food to be supplied to the participants and all other supporting staff and volunteers will be made using organic vegetables and food grains.
 
 The minister said the agriculture department, and its agencies like the VFPCK, horticulture corporation as well the students from various schools had contributed four times the vegetables required for the festival.
 
 The festival kitchen also started functioning on Friday for preparing food to the participants who have arrived for various rehearsals.  , who heads the catering firm, said about 20,000 kg of rice and 16 tonnes of vegetables would be required for preparing food for the festival. According to him, food will have to be cooked for 45,000 to 50,000 people everyday.
 
 The IG said the services of 2,200 personnel drawn from various sections including the volunteers and police staff will be deployed for providing security for the festival. They include 10 DSPs, 10 CIs, 165 sub-inspectors, as well as 703 civil police officers, including women police officers. The security wing will also include 1,223 volunteers from wings like  , student police cadets,   police group members and the   units.
 
 
