BARNALA: The opening of a railway underpass here connecting two parts of the town has led to a war of credit among politicians. Nearly 40,000 people living across the railway crossing on the busy   road will be benefited by it.

 Town residents had been waiting for the underpass for over two decades to avoid getting stuck at the railway barrier for a long time. Now, with it becoming functional, politicians have started claiming credit in the completion of the long-pending project, even before it was opened to traffic by   DC Ghanshyam Thori in the presence of former MLA Kewal Singh Dhillon on Wednesday.
 
 Groups owing allegiance to the ruling   and SAD made claims that the underpass was the result of persistent efforts of their parties. Workers of both parties had put up flex boards with pictures of former Congress MLA Dhillon and industrialist Rajinder Gupta, also SAD general secretary, claiming the underpass to be their achievement. 
 
 The 90m long, 6m wide underpass has been constructed at a cost of Rs 4.30 crore with the state government and   jointly bearing the expenditure. Former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Badal had laid the foundation stone on January 22, 2016, even though some clearances were still to be obtained from the Railways and the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL).
 
 Dhillon said, “Akalis had forgotten about the underpass after laying the foundation. It is the   government, which started the construction and completed it in a very short time, providing relief to town residents. The underpass was badly needed on the Dhanaula road crossing.”
 
 Barnala municipal council president and former district president of SAD Sanjiv Shorey said, “The entire credit goes to Trident group chairman Gupta, who as general secretary of SAD made Sukhbir allocate money and got the necessary clearances from the Railways and other departments. He made a lot of efforts to get it constructed at the earliest but construction could not start as the model code of conduct came into force after the laying of stone.”
 
 
