The March for Our Lives rally in Washington D.C. and elsewhere in the US, organised by the students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Florida was galvanised by the presence of prominent   stars, who also lent their support to the anti-gun violence demonstration.

  According to a reports, at the main rally in Washington D.C.,  ,  ,  , Lin-Manuel Miranda and  , Vic Mensa and Common all took the stage to provide musical interludes between the speeches delivered by victims of gun violence, including the students from the Florida school.
 
  Hundreds of prominent Hollywood personalities also participated in the main rally in the American capital and in other places across the country.
 
  Actor Nick Offerman, participating in the Los Angeles march, showed off a t-shirt reading-"Don't be a dope, vote like a Knope," referencing his former Parks and Recreation colleague Amy Poehler's public-servant character in the show.
 
  
  
 The Sex and the City star Cynthia Nixon, who is aspiring to be the New York Governor, posted a picture on Twitter showing her support to the students in the anti-gun violence rally.
 
  
  
 
  Singer Miley Cyrus participated in the 'March for Our Lives' event with her three sisters-Tish, Noah and Brandi.
 
  
  
 
  Prominent American television host and actor Jimmy Fallon posted a picture on Instagram saying, "he next generation is shining bright. #MarchForOurLives."
 
  
  
 
  Singer Lady Gaga was also seen weighing her support to the anti-gun violence demonstration, along with her friends and wore black t-shirts that read-"Be Kind" and holding banners saying-"Disarm Hate".
 
  Former Beatles member Paul McCartney also lent their support to the movement and honoured his late friend and bandmate John Lennon, who fell victim to gun violence in 1980.
 
  McCartney was seen wearing a shirt that read "We Can End Gun Violence."
 
  In a brief interview, the Beatles legend said, "One of my best friends was killed in gun violence right around here, so it's important to me."
 
  Entrepreneur and reality television host Padma Lakshmi also participated in the rally.
 
  
  
 Actor George Clooney and his wife Amal Clooney, who donated USD 500,000 to the march were seen participating in the "March for Our Lives" rally and clicking pictures and selfies with the students.
 
  Thousands of people flooded the Pennsylvania Avenue in the American capital for the 'March for Our Lives' on March 24 to support tougher gun controls, in the wake of last month's shooting at the Florida school, which claimed 17 lives.
 
  Last week, students from more than 3,000 schools took to the streets from Washington D.C. to Los Angeles and from New York to Parkland on National Walkout Day to call for action against gun violence.
 
