LUCKNOW: Ready to catch a glimpse of the rare moon trilogy, people took to parks, scientific institutes and terraces to witness the rare lunar event that last occurred over a century ago.

 Just an hour before the super moon, blue moon and total lunar eclipse coincided on Wednesday evening to grace the sky, people of all age groups gathered with binoculars or in queue to see the astronomical wonder through a telescope.
 
 The earth’s shadow bathed the moon in coppery hue but haze interrupted visibility for the eager stargazer for the initial 40 minutes around 6.30pm.
 
 The moment haze cleared, the excitement to see the celestial show grew with people thronging roads and parks.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 “The moon is 14% bigger and was copper-red but visibility through naked eye and telescope was low due to haze,” said scientific officer of   Sumit Kumar Srivastava. He added that after the haze cleared, enthusiasm of stargazers peaked.
 
 “We felt the need to install five telescopes at Clock Tower as more than a thousand astrology enthusiasts lined up at Clock Tower,” he added.
 
 While the moon played hide and seek in haze, people who came to show the event to their kids tried to explain to them what was happening through videos on phones.
 
 Near Clock Tower, where Indira Gandhi Planetarium had made special arrangements to view the moon, it was a large educational outing for families.
 
 “For my daughters Sara and Sneha, the moon has been a hero in storybooks. I wanted them to know the scientific side of their Chandamama,” said Ambika.
 
 She and her four friends tried to teach their children through a human formation the concept of lunar eclipse.
 
 From Clock Tower till Rumi Gate, stargazers had their eyes fixed on the sky to see the special moon grace the historical monuments.
 
 “Satkhanda was meant for moon-watching and today, the atmosphere here is like reliving the era when this monument would have witnessed this over a century ago,” said Deepika Agarwal.
 
 To know the scientific explanation of why the moon is so, celestial lovers gathered at Regional Science City.
 
 “This is happening after 174 years and I have kept all superstitions aside to come out to view this rare event. The institute not only helped us view the moon but also explained the science behind it,” said Adarsh Dalwani.
 
 The view at the   and Lohia Park was no different as people had especially turned up to record the oncein-a-blue-moon event.
 
 “This will happen next in 2037 and it is happening after 150 years, who can afford to miss it,” said student   at the Riverfront.
 
 Many others, meanwhile, witnessed the phenomenon from the comfort of their terraces.
 
 (With inputs from Abdul Rehman Khan, Mehdi Moosvi, Shambhavi Vijai and  )
 
 
