While last year two Agra brothers, Deepak and Rahul Chahar, were selected to play for Pune Giants at the  , this year another Agra boy,  , has made it to the tournament. Tajinder, a resident of Balkeshwar, has been roped in by   for `55 lakh. An all-rounder, Tajinder plays Ranji for Rajasthan and is the first Indian to get selected directly for Ranji without playing U-19 and U-23 cricket.

 
 
 Tajinder was introduced to cricket at a young age of three when his sister gifted him a cricket bat on his birthday. He says, "Though I started playing cricket when my sister gifted me a bat, my uncle introduced me to professional cricket at the age of eight when he took me to a cricket playground. He has also played Ranji for Railways. So cricket is in my blood. Initially, I used to play cricket in my locality but after gauging my talent, my uncle decided to provide me professional training. Since I was born in Dholpur, Rajasthan, and have spent initial few years of my life there, my family decided to get me admitted in a Dholpur academy under the guidance of coach Suminder Tiwari."
 
  
  Tejinder Singh Dhillon
 
 
 
 Despite playing Ranji matches for Rajasthan, Tajinder always wanted to play IPL for the Mumbai franchise. "I am a huge fan of   and have always idolised him. Since the time IPL started, I dreamt of playing for Mumbai Indians under the guidance of Sachin sir. However, being a player of Rajasthan team, I would have been content if I would have been selected in Rajsthan Royals as well," Tajinder says.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Though Tajinder has been a consistent performer, he was not selected in any of the junior national teams. But the Agra lad has no qualms as he feels that hard work always pays off. "It is one step at a time for me. Despite good performances, I was not selected for the U-16, U-18 and U-23 teams, but I never lost hope and kept on playing," he says. 
 Tajinder adds, "Eventually, I got selected for Ranji and now IPL is going to happen. I am more than happy with myself. I was waiting for this day for so long," he says.
 While Tajinder did his schooling in Agra, he chose to play for Rajasthan in domestic cricket. Any particular reason? He says, "I started playing for Rajasthan because the selection process there is based on match performances over a period time unlike in Uttar Pradesh, where it depends on trials. However, now I feel Agra has developed into a cricketing hub. Players get better facilities here and we are also generating good players."
 
 
 
 Apart from Tajinder, Rahul Chahar has also been selected for Mumbai Indians, who is Tajinder’s junior. Tajinder says, "I have seen Rahul since the beginning when he started playing cricket. We have played Ranji for Rajasthan together. Sharing dressing room with someone you already know is always helpful. Rahul and I share a good bond and it will be fun to play with him in the same team."
 
 
 
 
