CHANDIGARH: The proposed   was discussed at a meeting between chief minister Amarinder Singh and   president Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi on Thursday but it was decided to hold back any announcement as the party wants to get its arithmetic right ahead of the Lok Sabha elections.

 Sources said the discussion on a few names remained inclusive and both leaders could meet again on Friday. There is still no clarity on when the swearing in would be held as discussion on some probable ministers was still left open-ended. Other issues pertaining to strengthening the organizational structure in the state were also discussed with an eye on the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.
 
 Talking to media persons after the three-hour meeting, Amarinder said there was a discussion on the cabinet expansion but the outcome would be shared at an appropriate time.
 
 The expansion is being closely watched for whether Amarinder will prevail upon the party high command for a clear say in the list of additions. At the same time, the party is trying to strike the right balance between different regions of the state and due representation will be given to the Malwa region.
 
 “Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh’s name has cropped up at a later stage. Besides, all three in the youth brigade including Vijay Inder Singla, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and Kuljit Singh Nagra, who have had a chance to directly work with Rahul in the party organisation. These are tough calls,” said a party leader.
 
 Sources said some leaders like three-time Dera Baba Nanak MLA Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, five-time Amritsar MLA O P Soni and Guru Har Sahai MLA Rana Sodhi have the endorsement of Amarinder. Besides, names of four-time MLA from Ludhiana North Rakesh Kumar Pandey and Verka MLA Raj Kumar Verka have also been doing the rounds.
 
 With no clear information about what transpired at the meeting with Rahul, the aspirant MLAs are in a tizzy and many are already camping in the national capital to lobby for a cabinet berth. A reshuffle of the existing portfolios is also on the cards.
 
 There is also a view that the party wants to wait for a verdict in the road rage case against local bodies minister  . The addition to the council of ministers is being awaited for quite some time now and it has been getting delayed for one reason or another.
 
 Punjab Congress president  , party’s incharge of Punjab affairs Asha Kumari and co incharge   were also present in the meeting.
 
 Sources said even though Amarinder has hinted at having a full-fledged cabinet, he was also keen on bringing back former power and irrigation minister Rana Gurjit Singh, if not now then at a later stage. Even though Gurjit has been given a clean chit by an inquiry commission, Rahul had reportedly taken a tough stance on the sand mining issue earlier. 
 
 
