CHENNAI: The only minizoo in the city, Children’s Park in Guindy, will soon get a makeover with spacious enclosures, landscaping suited to animals and organised zones for each species that will make a day out in with friends from the wild an experience worth remembering.

 Wildlife managers in Chennai have sent a proposal to the Central   Authority of India (CZAI) for redesigning enclosures of blackbuck and otters, which are protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972 and the Vedanthangal aviary. The new design for the rest of the enclosures, most of them more than 40 years old, will be approved by the chief wildlife warden, Tamil Nadu. 
 
 
  
  
 
 Chennai wildlife warden K Geethanjali told TOI that a thematic layout had been created and the new design would divide the park into zones of ungulates of south India, exotic birds, Indian birds, aquatic animals and primates. The first zone will house   varieties like spotted, sambar and barking deer, and a section for jackals and lorises. The second zone will be for turtles and birds from Vedanthangal, followed by an area for exotic birds and otters, the adjoining zone will be home to aquatic animals, including crocodiles. The primates zone will have enclosures for Nilgiri and common langurs, bonnets and rhesus macaques.
 
 Among the animals that will enjoy a larger space is the blackbuck. At present, the endangered Indian antelope takes up around 3,640sqft, which will be increased to 7,650sqft. A centre to provide treatment in case of injuries, besides space for rearing fawns will also be provided. Talking about the plan for each den, Geethanjali said: "Each enclosure will have a dry moat, beyond which a plant barrier and a trench will be built. To ensure safety with a unhindered view, a wall and metal barricade will separate visitors from the enclosures."
 
 Work on the new design has to be taken up in a phased manner, as it is difficult to demolish everything and start construction of new enclosures, she said. Plans are afoot to approach the government for funds to take up the redesigning as the park’s annual revenue of `2 crore is not sufficient for the makeover, said Geethanjali.
 
 
