Chennai: With its sparkling turquoise waters and pristine beaches, Mauritius has always been a popular holiday destination for Indian travellers. But now, the island nation is all set to boost tourist traffic by coming up with an aggressive marketing plan —-increasing the number of flights from India to Mauritius, wooing people in tier-2 cities and promoting it as a   destination.

 Anil Gayan, minister of  , Mauritius, recently announced that Air Mauritius flights will operate daily from Mumbai during the peak season. At present, there are four direct flights from Mumbai, two from Delhi, and three from Chennai via Bengaluru. “We also want Indian airlines like Air India and Jet Airways to fly to Mauritius. We want them to know that we are open to business,” said Gayan.
 
 The number of Indian tourists visiting Mauritius has been increasing every year, with 86,300 travelling to the island nation in 2017. “We are targeting 100,000 tourists from India this year,” said Vivek Anand, country manager, Mauritius Tourism Promotion Authority (MTPA) India. 
 
 “This year we will endeavour to go deeper into cities like Chandigarh, Lucknow, Pune, Ahmedabad, Coimbatore, Kanpur, and Nagpur while sustaining our marketing actions in metros such as Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai,” he said. The island’s all-inclusive resorts such as the Shandrani Beachcomber Resort & Spa are a big draw, where guests can enjoy water sports, traditional cuisine and enjoy a comfortable stay for a flat fee.
 
 According to Anand, Mauritius has long been known as a luxury   destination. “But we have more to offer —  , international-level golf courses, and cultural tourism,” he said. The country has a rich golfing history and it focusing on cashing in on that. Mauritius is the third country in the world where golf was played, after the United Kingdom and India. The British Royal Navy members opened the first Golf club — The Gymkhana Golf Club in 1902, which the oldest golf club in the Southern Hemisphere and the fourth oldest golf course in the world.
 
 MTPA India has been promoting Mauritius as a golf destination by participating in top golf tournaments in India as co-sponsors as well as organising Mauritius-branded tournaments. 
 
 “Mauritius has ten 18-hole golf courses and five nine-hole golf courses, each of which provides a unique golfing experience. The courses have been designed by leading golfers such as Ernie Els, Bernard Langer sprawls and David Leadbetter,” said Anand. 
 
 “Most of the courses are set up in idyllic locations between the sea and the mountain or at private islets,” he added. The country also hosts many tournaments, including The AfrAsia Bank Mauritius Open, a men’s professional golf tournament.
 
 The writer was in Mauritius as part of the conducted tour 
 
 
