GURUGRAM: The driver of the   that rammed a Swift Dzire from the wrong side inside  , in a head-on collision that left an IndiGo   critically injured and two others in her cab dead early on Sunday, was arrested on Monday.

 Police said driver Muhammad Sajid had fled the spot after the accident and went to Mayom Hospital in South City 1, where he was admitted with injuries in his legs and hands. His two friends, who were also in the Scorpio, sustained minor injuries, according to the cops, and were discharged after the first aid. The three were returning from Rishikesh.
 
 The pilot,   (30), was on her way to the IGI airport to report for her flight. She is under treatment at Medanta. Vinod Yadav, the driver of the cab, and Kishore Yadav, a guard escorting the pilot, died on the spot.
 
 A source at Mayom Hospital said, “Three people, including Sajid, came to our hospital on Sunday morning around 8am. While Sajid was admitted, the others were discharged after treatment.” 
 
 Sajid’s injuries were not serious and he was picked up by police on Monday afternoon, the source added.
 
 During interrogation, police sources said Sajid had claimed he had entered the underpass by mistake. “After driving some distance inside the underpass, I realised we were on the wrong lane. But I could not go back and thus decided to get out of the underpass as soon as possible and accelerated,” said a police source, quoting Sajid.
 
 Sajid, originally from Sangam Nagar in New Delhi, earlier used to drive cabs for a living. Currently, he lives in Sector 57 of Gurugram. The Scorpio, which has a Delhi number and a fake Member of Parliament sticker, is registered in the name of Pradeep Kumar. Liquor bottles were found inside the Scorpio, police said.
 
 “Sajid had bought the second-hand vehicle but did not change the registration number. He had made the fake Lok Sabha MP sticker and pasted it on the vehicle probably with the intention to get free passage at tolls,” said police spokesperson Ravinder Kumar.
 
 Police did not reveal the identity of the other two youths travelling in the Scorpio. “We are investigating the matter,” said Kailash Bedi, SHO of DLF 1 police station.
 
 Security guard Kishore, originally from Bareilly in UP, had joined the job merely five days before the accident. 
 
 “Kishore used to escort airline employees home,” said a police officer.
 
 Vinod had been working with the cab company for the last six years. Originally from Bijnor in UP, Vinod lived in a rented house in Kadipur village of Gurugram with his wife, a five-year-old son and three siblings.
 
 
