NAGPUR: In the last three days, MSEDCL teams have unearthed power theft worth over Rs 2 crore in Vidarbha. Over 2,000 theft cases have been detected.

 The theft amount assessed is twice the money spent on demand side management (DSM) by MSEDCL in the state in 2017-18.   implies reduction in demand by using energy efficient devices like LEDs.
 
 With its financial condition deteriorating by the day, state discom MSEDCL has started cracking down on power theft on a large scale.
 
 Regional director (RD)   said the vigilance teams carried out operations in all 12 circles of Vidarbha and detected 2,067 theft cases.
 
 “The pilfered units assessed comes to 20.57 lakh units which translates into Rs 2.04 crore. Among these cases, 1,101 pertain to meter tampering while 966 were of drawing power illegally through hooks. We have decided not to go in for compounding and register police cases against the pilferers. We will register cases under Section 138 of the Indian Electricity Act, 2003, against those found tampering meters and under Section 135 against those drawing power by hooks,” he said.
 
 Khandait said MSEDCL would soon publish the names of power thieves in local newspapers. “Our aim is to deter people from pilfering power and we will take stringent measures for achieving this,” he said.
 
 “This time, we have decided to trace the origin of power theft. We will try to nab the persons who tamper with meters. We will take action against contractors who do faulty wiring at the time of installation of a new meter. We will not only register police cases against but also cancel their registration,” Khandait said.
 
 According to the RD, 90 teams of MSEDCL comprising over 400 staffers carried out anti-theft operations. “Many women also participated in the operations,” he said.
 
 The senior official said that energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule and MSEDCL managing director   were determined to increase the revenue of MSEDCL and such anti-theft operations would become the order of the day.
 
 Giving the break up of 1,101 meter tampering cases, Khandait said, “Fourteen cases were detected in Nagpur urban circle, 92 in Nagpur rural circle, 43 in Wardha, 218 in Amravati, 75 in Yavatmal, 84 in Akola, 110 in Washim, 287 in Buldhana, 59 in Chandrapur, 51 in Gadchiroli, 57 in  , and 11 in Gondia.”
 
 
