CHENNAI: Busy preparing for the   starting on Monday, Tamil Nadu’s   could only catch the latter half of India’s triumphant run chase against   in the U-19 World Cup final. As the boys in blue sauntered to a record fourth U-19 World Cup title, memories of that day in Townsville six years ago came flooding back for Aparajith. After all, the current TN one-day vice-captain was an intrinsic part of the team that got the better of Australia in their own backyard to win the 2012 edition.

 “Definitely, memories of our win came back. Each time you see the U-19 guys play, you start thinking about the time when you were playing in the World Cup. Like us, they played against Australia and were chasing a similar target. So there were some similarities also,” Aparajith reflected during a chat with TOI.
 
 In the 2012 edition, Aparajith and skipper   – who scored an unbeaten century in the final – were heralded as future stars. Among the current lot, it’s the turn of  ,   and   among others to be celebrated across the country following their euphoric victory. Going forward, they will also have to get accustomed to the surge in expectations.
 
 “The weight of expectations is natural. I believe it’s a good thing because you will learn a lot from it. The fact that people have expectations from these players might help them succeed. It can be a good confidence-booster. Some people thrive on it. Some might find it difficult too. Whatever happens whether it is good or bad, though, it will definitely be an experience for them.
 
 “Players who win the World Cup are recognised immediately. So there can be pressure, but how you cope with it is up to each individual. It’s a very good challenge and experience to cope with that pressure. It will only be useful while playing first-class cricket or for India,” assessed Aparajith, who scored 171 runs and took five wickets in the tournament.
 
 While Aparajith had already made his first-class debut for TN a year before the U-19 WC, the junior tournament naturally led to further media glare on the then 18-year-old. So how did he deal with all the hysteria?
 
 “I was very young then. I don’t remember that phase. It went in a flow. I knew people expected things from me, but I have forgotten how I felt then and how I reacted. It wasn’t quite a blur, but I was too young. Sometimes, we don’t quite know how things happened when you are young,” is how Aparajith puts it.
 
 Even as Shaw & Co were competing far away in New Zealand under the watchful eyes of coach Rahul Dravid, many players were picked up by IPL franchises in a high-profile auction in Bengaluru last week. It’s all part of the challenge entailing their transition from starry-eyed teenagers to fully grown men. “Playing in the IPL, which is a different format, alongside stars will help them. It’s an evolving phase. Some people will excel while some will learn. The standard of cricket will be a little bit higher. It’s a very good opportunity to up their game,” added Aparajith.
 
 According to Aparajith, the reassuring presence of Dravid, who served a prompt reminder within minutes of their win on Saturday that this was only the beginning, is an “added advantage” for the current group.
 
 “These U-19 boys have spent a lot more time with him than I have done. There is no one better than having a cricketer like him around to guide you. Everyone knows that. These guys have an added advantage. We also had Bharat Arun. The role of coaches at the U-19 level in the last few years has been immense. Without them, it would have been a little more difficult.”
 
 
