THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Even a '40-litre' diesel tank of a car could contain up to 52 litres, test conducted by   officials showed. This was after Anish Joy Chirpparambil, an IT professional, complained that he had started getting 'intimidating' calls after he published the photo of a meter reading from an   retailer at Attipra in Thiruvananthapuram showing that tank with a maximum capacity of 45 litres was filled with 49 litres of diesel. 

 
 The car was owned by  , a software engineer. Anish, his friend, had posted the meter readings on  , which had gone viral. Anish had also made a complaint in IOC's online customer grievance redressal system on Tuesday.
 
 On Thursday, the car and the fuel pump were tested by IOC and legal metrology officials. "The   of the vehicle was emptied. The vehicle was then towed to the dispensing unit from which the complainant had previously filled on April 7, 2018. The delivery to the fuel tank was done in the presence of police officers, the complainant, other software professionals, local public and IOC officials," a clarification from IOC said.
 
 "It was found that 52.14 litres could be filled in the fuel tank when filled to the brim. This was witnessed by the complainant as well as the general public which had assembled. IndianOil has also checked the automation logs of the outlet for April 7, 2018 and the particular transaction for 49.1 litres at 5:52 hours could also be traced," the clarification from IOC said.
 
 "The sub inspector advised the complainant to make a post on Facebook confirming the details he has witnessed and acknowledging the misconception in fuelling quantity. It is seen that the confusion has arisen primarily because the service manual shows only 40 litres as fuel tank capacity while actually it can take up to 52.14 litres," IOC added.
 
 Legal metrology department officials said that they had visited the petrol pump and conducted an inspection of the meter. ''We found that the led wire seal of the meter wasn't tampered with and the measurements were accurate," said legal metrology assistant controller F Jaya.
 
 Meanwhile, Anish deleted his FB post and repeated attempts to contact him over phone went futile. 
 
