
 
 I first felt love or puberty or whatever you may call it when I met my music teacher, old enough to be my mom. It was the most beautiful time of my life, fantasising about this English ma’am, who thought I could sing and act. Did she understand? I don’t know. When finally I got nowhere with this desperate passion inside, I joined a band of extremely naughty guys who were rule breakers. Perhaps it was out of angst or anger that I wanted to be bad. I drank my first beer, bunked school to see The Giant. That was when I saw James Dean for the first time. I fought and was beaten. I even stole my classmate’s blazer because someone had stolen mine. But then the Rector gave us a long spiel about life and theft and I returned the blazer secretly. Only I forgot to take out my matches from the pocket. I was caught. I was caned. I almost cried myself to unconsciousness, when my dormitory mate made me smoke my first cigarette holed up in the toilet at night. Boy, I completely forgot the pain. It was heaven!
 
 
 
 There was this girl I kissed at a social, behind the school hall. I was not yet l4 and she was my age. First kiss! I don’t know who she was. We never met again. It felt funny inside the stomach and she had been chewing too much gum. But it was great. She ran off into the mist. That’s it. Over.
 
 
 
 I grew up in a male surrounding, longing for and always regarding the opposite sex as great adventure. Fell in love with many but ended up marrying at a very young age. And suddenly becoming a dad for which I was unprepared.
 
 
 
 
 I never liked the early films of Rituparno Ghosh; I found him foppish. But when my best friend from Darj was almost dying and needed a place on the ground floor in Kolkata, I went to hire his empty flat in Jodhpur Park. He gave it to me free without batting an eyelid. I couldn’t help but admire and love the man. I acted in his Chitrangada, which I consider to be his best and one of the bravest films made in my country. We both decided to co-write and co-direct and act in a film about a strange friendship between a gay and a homophobic. We called it Ananda Bhairabhi and went all over the city to get funds. But no one seemed interested and Rituparno was taking too much medicines...
 
 He found Rituparno Ghosh foppish. He stole a blazer in school. And his first kiss was with a girl he’s never met again. These are some of the leaked excerpts from Anjan Dutt’s upcoming biography, which we could lay our hands on. If this is any indication, Bangladeshi writer Sajjad Hussain’s book, Ajanjatra, is bound to open a can of worms. From what we’ve seen, the book doesn’t eulogise him, but depicts the actor-director-singer-songwriter as a man who has many stories to tell. Sajjad, who has several books to his credit and is the lyricist of popular Bangladeshi band LRB, told us, “I called him in November and his first reaction was, ‘Why me?’ I always felt that there is a bit of him in his works, be it cinema or music.”
 
 The song, Mr Hall, is about the music teacher he fell in love with. Again, Bela Bose, is about another woman he once felt for. Frankly, I was very disappointed to read Uttam Kumar’s Amar Ami, as there was no mention of any woman in his life, or even alcohol. I thought Anjanda would speak the truth.”
 When we got in touch with Dutt, he was surprised but told us, “I never thought someone would be interested in writing a book about me. It’s too erratic. My growth has been sporadic. I loved theatre. There was a time I needed to marry Chanda, my university mate, and needed a job. So, I became a journalist. Since I dreamt of being an actor, I left my job after marriage and focused on theatre. Mrinal Sen and   cast me in the lead in 1980. I won a prize at Venice Film Festival in 1981 and I was confirmed that I’ll be the most important actor after Soumitra Chatterjee in  . That did not happen. I left for Berlin to work in a theatre company. By the time I was 42, I was already tired of waiting for great roles and awards and became known as a singer-songwriter. I started singing, inspired by Suman, just to sustain myself and my family. I never thought I’d earn so much more. Then the desire to be in cinema made me want to direct movies. I made a disaster with 
 Badadin. Later, I managed to make movies that worked.” 
 
 The book was penned from conversations between Sajjad and Dutt in Darjeeling. As a parting shot, Dutt added, “I have hurt people, misunderstood them, but I have been sorry for that too. The book captures me as a child-man. Also, I have been a nuisance as a father and a husband. But irrespective of that, Neel and Chanda stood by me. Their first reaction to the book was, ‘Not again!’ I truly feel indebted to them for allowing me to be whatever I am.”
 While the book is in Bangla, you’re reading the translated bits here.
 
 
