BAREILLY: The Uttar Pradesh government will start work on reviving one ‘dead’ river in each of the 75 districts of the state from January 2018. According to state irrigation minister Dharampal Singh, the Yogi government will use only a small portion of the budget from Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) for this project, with the rest of the funding coming from social welfare organisations.
 
  Addressing the media on Sunday, Aonla MLA Singh said, “As the focus of the Yogi government is to protect water bodies and increase ground water level, we have decided to revive one vanished river in each of the 75 districts of the state. However, it will be a non-government work due to active participation of social welfare organisations. I have already spoken to the CM and we will start the project with MNREGA. Only a small portion from MNREGA budget will be utilised for the project to give work to labourers while the rest will be funded by social welfare organisations. For instance, we will ask someone to provide   machine and request others to bear petrol expenses of vehicles used in the project.”
  
  Singh said that the government would send guidelines to the respective district magistrates on how work has to be undertaken through MNREGA.
  
  Singh said, “The project to revive these dried rivers will also lead to increase in groundwater level and help farmers in irrigating their land. The state government has identified rivers which used to exist but have now vanished. We will dig up the old river beds and fill them with water from big canals. Rivers such as   in Ayodhya, Aril in Bareilly, Srot in   and Gomti in   will be revived. Lord Rama had spent his first night and crossed Tamsa river during his 14 years of exile. These rivers are important for our history and culture.”
  
  The minister added that he had been taking action against officials over laxity in carrying out their duties. “In the last nine months, I have suspended 36 officials, from the rank of junior engineers to chief engineers, in the state. Besides, departmental inquiry is going on against 126 officials against whom we had received complaints,” said Singh.
