GURUGRAM: An FIR was registered against the management of a well-known   on  , after a three-year-old boy, studying in the playschool, was allegedly hit by his class teacher, leaving him bleeding from his chin. 

 
 The incident happened on April 9, when the parents of the kid had approached Badshapur police station, but they had been told by the police officers present to approach the Gurugram child welfare committee ( ), which they then did. It was based on the CWC’s findings, which took over a month to be filed, that the FIR was registered under   of the Juvenile Justice (JJ) Act on Wednesday.
 
 According to Nisha Saini, legal-cum-probation officer, district child protection unit (DCPU), April 9, a Monday, was a normal day for the 3-year-old. He was playing with his friends in the playschool. Saini added, “Suddenly, one kid fell and his nose started to bleed. The class teacher, who was not present at the time, rushed in, saw this boy and hit him.   footage shows the teacher hit him while standing, sending the kid’s head flying backwards on impact, and his chin start to bleed. Playschool officials then took him aside and got him cleaned up, without later informing the parents of what had happened.”
 
 That same evening, the kid’s parents returned home from work and started questioning him when they noticed the injury. “On returning home, the parents immediately noticed the swelling on the kid’s chin,” added Saini. That’s when the boy blurted out the truth. Enraged, the parents decided to approach police.
 
 “That same evening, the parents filed a complaint with Badshapur police, though the officers on duty refused to file an FIR. They didn’t even assist them in getting a medico-legal report (MLR) done,” said Saini. 
 
 Police, though, claimed they had gone by the rule book. “The parents had come to us and filed a complaint in writing. We told them that till CWC looks into the matter, we will wait. Now, CWC has completed their probe and filed a report, based on which we registered an FIR. We did this as it’s a matter involving child welfare, as it concerns a kid and his teacher,” said Vishnu Prasad, SHO, Badshapur.
 
 The CWC said they had received an emailed complaint from the parents on the incident only a few days ago. They then called the parents, after which a CWC team visited the school. “The parents had filed a complaint to us on email. Based on this, a CWC team visited the playschool. The principal denied the accusation. She also claimed she didn’t know how the kid had got injured,” said Saini.
 
 The playschool refused to divulge any information on the incident. The principal refused to comment on the matter.
 
