Mohammed Nalapad Haris, elder son of Congress MLA N A Haris, started the fight where he and his friends allegedly brutally assaulted a 24-year-old youth in a posh restaurant in central Bengaluru, police sources who accessed   footage from the scene of crime said.

 However, senior police officers claimed on record that though there is prima facie evidence that Md Haris was involved in the brawl, it is not clear who started it.
 
 Md Haris, 24, and six of his associates were arrested for assaulting Vidvat L at a posh restaurant in UB City on Saturday night. The seven accused, who are in the custody of Cubbon Park police, are being questioned.
 
 “Haris has admitted to having attacked Vidvat. But it is not clear who started the fight. CCTV footage from the restaurant shows Md Haris and his men having a heated argument with Vidvat and his friends. Minutes later, it turns into a free-for-all as the youths begin trading blows,” DCP (Central) Chandragupta told the media on Tuesday.
 
 Sources privy to the investigation, however, told TOI that Md Haris is seen hitting Vidvat first in the CCTV footage from the hotel. The argument and scuffle lasted 23 minutes, they said.
 
 According to sources, Haris and Vidvat are seen arguing with each other around 10.30pm. “They shout at each other, show fingers and make gestures. Finally, Haris raises his hand and punches Vidvat on his chest and stomach,” sources said.
 
 A split second later, Vidvat retaliates. “He punches Md Haris and slaps him. By then, Haris’ associates rush towards Vidvat and rain blows on him,” sources said. Some people separate the group, and Vidvat and Md Haris walk in the opposite direction.
 
 But soon, Vidvat and Md Haris begin shouting at each other. “Haris and his men rush towards Vidvat. This time nobody dares stop them. They mercilessly beat up Vidvat with bare hands and bottles,” sources said.
 
 The six arrested associates of Md Haris include two bouncers-cum-drivers and two fruit juice shop owners.
 
 Md Haris went absconding after Vidvat’s friend lodged a complaint with police late Saturday night. While six of his men were picked up on Sunday, Md Haris surrendered to police on Monday morning. Police escalated charges by including IPC Sec 307 (attempt to murder) in the FIR.
 
 Asked whether there was any previous enmity between the lawmaker’s son and Vidvat, Chandragupta said, “Investigations show no such enmity. They might have known each other by face but they were neither friends nor foes.”
 
 The DCP said they will question customers and employees present in the restaurant when the incident took place. “Investigation has just begun and we can say that Md Haris and gang attacked the victim. More details will be available only after questioning others, including Vidvat himself. Doctors treating Vidvat at Mallya Hospital may permit us to take his statement in a couple of days,” he said.
 
 The arrested are as Arun Babu, Manjunath, Mohammed Ashraf, Balakrishna, Abhishek and Mohammed Naseer.
 
