TUTICORIN/CHENNAI: Actor   , who visite d the patients injured in   violence that left 13 people dead at the Thoothukudi medical college hospital on Wednesday, blamed anti-social elements for turning the peaceful protest against the Sterlite copper plant into a violent one on May 22. 

 Speaking to reporters at the Chennai airport on his return from Tuticorin, a visibly angry Rajinikanth said   would turn into a graveyard if people start protesting on every issue. 
 
 The actor-turned-politician said the protests turned violent only after the police were attacked by anti-socials, adding he would not accept attack on the police.
 
 Just as it was in the case of jallikattu protests, miscreants infiltrated the anti-Sterlite stir too, the actor said and urged the state government to put down such nefarious elements with iron hand as done by former CM  .
 
  "The present government should follow her ( 's) example and control such miscreants with an iron hand," he said referring to the late chief minister with whom he shared a blow hot blow cold relationship.   said that such elements posed a threat to Tamil Nadu and made an appeal to the people to distinguish between protests for good causes and those instigated by antisocial elements. "There was no violence during the silent protests that were organized for the first 99 days," he said. At the Chennai airport, he added, "The problem started only after police were beaten up. Anti-social elements beat up the police and only after that the police started retaliating by beating up the protesters." When a reporter asked him how he knew about it, he shot back, "I know." 
 
 The actor said that the police should identify those who resorted to violence with available CCTV and video footage, declare them anti-socials and publish their pictures on newspapers and TV channels, in addition to ensuring stringent punishment for them. When pointed out that opposition parties have accused him of belittling the protests by stating that anti-social elements had infiltrated the protesters, Rajinikanth said, "It was anti-social elements who entered at the last minute and spoilt the show, just as they spoilt the jallikattu protests." He reiterated that intelligence failure by police was the reason behind anti-social elements sneaking into the silent protest. 
 
 Stating that the relatives of victims were pained by the incident, he added that closure of the Sterlite plant should be permanent. "If there are any humans in Sterlite, they will not go to court in appeal against the closure. Even if they go to court there are humans in the court who will not allow them to resume operations. The plant should not resume operations and should not be allowed to operate," he said.
 
 Responding to the walkout by DMK from the assembly and the ongoing blame game despite closure of the plant, Rajinikanth said that everything should not be politicised. "People cannot be fooled. They are watching everything and will act at the right time," he said. To a question, he felt that the demand for the chief minister to resign was unnecessary. "Resignation of the chief minister is not the solution for all problems," he added. 
 
 On the other hand, the superstar also said that protesting was not the solution for all issues, something he reiterated at Chennai airport too. "If people protest for everything, Tamil Nadu will become a graveyard. We already don't have agriculture. Without investments, we will not have jobs. If people have issues they should fight it legally through the court," he added. The actor also said that he did not have faith in the one-man commission formed by the government to probe the violence.
 
 
