

 
 
 
 The appeal of quacks is in their ‘quick’ or ‘easy’ sounding solutions. If it were that easy, obesity would be a non-issue today! The truth is, obesity is a complex, medical disease that can’t be treated with some band-aid therapy. Obesity is perhaps the only disease when people affected with it turn to their friends and neighbours for advice instead of their doctors. Could you imagine someone diagnosed with cancer seeking treatment advice from friends instead of a qualified doctor? People need to realise that they deserve scientific weight-management and medical care. Unfortunately, most medical schools do a poor job of training doctors to address weight management. This leaves obesity treatment in the hands of those who lack credentials and operate in a fact-free zone. 
 
  
 
 Yes, a few husbands were unsettled by the dramatic transformations in their wives and tried to sabotage their diets. But as I say in the book, I can’t help with jealous spouses. 
 
  
 
 Frankly, I was absolutely amazed to see the amount of forethought he had put into his appearance in the movie. To portray an older version of the wrestler,  , he did not want to just gain weight without muscle. Therefore, he first gained muscle as well as weight. In the next phase, he shed the excess fat so the underlying muscles were visible, and also bulked up further. It may sound straightforward but his effort took months. Our body loses fat if we eat less than our calorie requirement, and gains fat (or muscle) only if we have surplus calorie intake. How then were we to make Aamir lose fat and gain more muscle at the same time? It was a test of my nutritional and counselling skills but nothing compared to the task for the person actually doing the work. During those months, I found out first-hand why he is called Mr Perfectionist. But, I also got to see his human side. There were times when he was struggling to adhere to his diet regimen strictly. I would totally understand if he had quit at the time. But, he didn’t.
 
  
 
 Unfortunately, yes. If you compare an Indian and a Westerner of the same body weight, height and age, generally, the Indian will have lesser muscle mass and greater storage of body fat.
 
 One theory is that until very recently, famines were frequent in the Indian subcontinent. Hence, our bodies have probably evolved to expertly survive famine, but don’t have the skill and mechanism of storing fat. This is likely to have led to lesser muscle mass and fat storage in inappropriate places such as liver, or muscle. Also, it seems that our tolerance for excess fat accumulation is lower. Indians succumb to diseases such as diabetes or heart disease at a lower body fat than do Westerners.
  
 So as Indians, we do have a lot going against us, but it certainly can be treated via a good, scientific diet.
 
  
 
 It does sound appealing. Who would want to think that their grandparents were nothing but perfect. However, science, unlike religion, does not work on faith, and demands evidence. The world over and in India, life expectancy is increasing remarkably so it is hard to make a case for diets of yesteryear. That said, there is nothing wrong in eating rice or wheat. All nutrition should be adjusted to meet an individual’s specific needs, likes, dislikes, habits, health conditions, etc.
 
 However, after many studies, the initial promise of ghee in weight loss has faded away. Besides, ghee is saturated fat, which is very much contraindicated in risk of heart disease, so I wouldn’t advise it.
 
  
 
 Obesity is a serious medical disease. Like diabetes or cancer, you don’t choose obesity, obesity chooses you. And women absolutely are judged far worse than men for having this disease. There is a lot of research that shows that those with excess body weight are considered less intelligent, less capable, etc. This bias is evident at a lower weight for women, while men with an equal degree of obesity get a pass.
 
 
 
