VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh State Disaster Response and Fire Services Department (APSDRFS) director general K   has written to the government recommending cancellation of licenses of the four   that were gutted in a mishap on Thursday. 

 According to sources, the department has taken a grim view of the major fire mishap that destroyed property worth Rs 2 crore at New Auto Nagar on Thursday.
 
 A meeting was held on Friday by the fire DG who decided to conduct special raids on industries to ensure that fire   norms are being followed. In this regard, the AP fire department coordinated with the state industries department. A list of factories across the state has been handed by them to the fire department and Satyanarayana said special committees would be set up and each one of them would be allocated a particular region to conduct the drives.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Krishna district fire officer Niranjan Reddy said they would be initiating the drives and would serve notices on factories who do not possess valid no-objection certificates (NOCs) and are not in compliance with fire safety norms. “Locals have reported that electricians were repairing the electrical circuits in the area which later suffered a short-circuit and caused the haystock placed nearby to catch fire and spread towards the buildings,” Niranjan Reddy told TOI.
 
 Officials said they have initiated the prosecuting authorities to charge negligence against the companies for not following fire safety norms. Even the industries department is supposed to issue licenses to factories after confirming that they possess the necessary fire safety equipment. But ironically, officials do admit that it is not being followed diligently.
 
 Apart from targeting the erring industries, the fire department also recommended to the government to divide the industrial areas into separate zones with special infrastructure to tackle fire mishaps. This entire development comes in view of the fire mishap that took place at a plastic unit in New Autonagar Area.
 
 
