Lovers of cricket in Kanpur are in for a big disappointment as the city will not be hosting the Indian Premier League (IPL) cricket matches this year. According to  , chairman, IPL, this year there are no IPL matches scheduled to be played in Kanpur. Apparently, the non-availability of the Kanpur airport has led to this decision of the IPL committee. 
Rajiv Shukla, chairman, IPL, says, "This time none of the IPL team franchises are showing an interest in making   their home ground. The reason behind this is the unavailability of the city airport. Whenever there is a match in Kanpur, cricketers have to first travel to Lucknow and then they come to Kanpur by road. This makes their travelling a hectic affair."
 According to Shukla, lack of suitable accommodation in Kanpur has also made the team franchises decide against playing in the city. "Also, Kanpur does not have good hotels where both the teams can stay separately. Out of eight IPL teams, six have already finalised their home ground. Only   and Kings XI Punjab have to finalise theirs but they are also not showing any interest in the Green Park Stadium because of the same reasons. Kanpur has only one hotel where both the teams stay during the matches. Generally, in other cities, both teams which are playing the match, stay in different hotels, which is more comfortable,” he says. "The decision to not have any IPL matches in the city has left the members of   (UPCA) thoroughly disappointed. Expressing his disappointment at the news, Mohammad Ali Talib, spokesperson of the UPCA, says, "In the past two IPL seasons, UPCA has proved that Green Park Stadium is fully equipped to host IPL matches. At present too, the stadium is almost ready for first-class matches. This news of no IPL matches scheduled for Kanpur is certainly disappointing. We have already requested the IPL chairman for matches of season 11 to be played in Kanpur but the final decision on the allotment of the matches completely rests with the IPL team franchises."
 The news of no IPL matches to be played this season in Kanpur has also left cricket lovers in the city crestfallen. Kapil Sinha, a cricket lover, who has watched all IPL matches live at the Green Park Stadium, says, "Jab pichhle do seasons mein Kanpur ko IPL matches mil sakte hain toh ab kyun nahi? Pehle bhi Kanpur mein airport nahi tha aur ek hi hotel mein dono teams rukti thi, now what’s changed? Abhi bhi waise hi ho sakta hai." 
 Meanwhile,  , the Kanpur airport director, says, "Flights at Kanpur airport have been affected due to the recarpeting of the runway. It was to be completed by the end of December last year, but things got delayed due to some technical issues. The airport should be fully functional by June this year and flights will be resumed." 
 
 
