Madurai Corporation in 2014 announced a plan to set up 100 Amma recreational parks for children one in each ward of the corporation. More than three years down the line, the announcement is still on paper and even most of the existing parks in the city are in dire straits owing to the lack of proper maintenance. Now this requires a huge amount to revive them.

 The Anna Park in Tirunagar, one of the oldest and well-planned localities in the city, is awaiting revival for many years. The area around the park has been developed, but due to lack of maintenance both the main park and the children’s park wear a deserted look with damaged play equipment, dried up fountains, withered flowering plants, heap of garbage and a dilapidated toilet. Still you have to pay an entry fee of Rs 5 to enter the park!
 
 Among the 13 parks the TOI visited in the city, except for three, all others are in a pathetic condition. At least a couple of them are locked and became a ‘joint’ for anti-social elements. Only those parks under the direct supervision of residents’ associations are in good shape.
 
 According to the data in the city corporation, the civic body maintains 202 parks. Officials say six parks had been renovated in the last couple of years and another six are in the process of reviving. Five more parks are to be taken up for renovation.
 
 Residents opine that works in some of the parks taken up for renovation are taking place at a snail’s pace. "It took a month to install the gate and duct the underground electric cables to the lamp posts. If things are going like this, the civic body cannot finish the works even after a year," said R K Prabakaran, a resident of Sathyasai Nagar, who is a regular to the Sundararajapuram Park near TVS Nagar.
 
 Meanwhile, the park at Vishwanathapuram, which is maintained by the residents’ association, wears a decent look. But they find it difficult to manage the affairs of the park as they get hardly any help from the civic body. "Garbage is not being cleared by the corporation. We can only clean the park. How do we dispose the waste," asks treasurer of the association V Muniandi, a retired PWD engineer.
 
 The residents say that the corporation concentrates only on a few parks such as the Eco Park located next to the corporation building. Meenakshi Palaniappan, a resident of Gomathipuram said, "All the parks in K K Nagar and Anna Nagar are very small and do not have any play equipment for children. It takes more time to visit the Eco Park and the Rajaji Park which are located far from our place. So, we regularly go to Sundaram Park, which is maintained by a private association."
 
 When contacted, city corporation commissioner Aneesh Sekhar said they were taking up parks under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut) scheme and would be improved one by one.
 
 
