PATNA: Breaching the previous records, petrol and diesel prices in   on Wednesday climbed to Rs83.01 and Rs72.99 per litre, respectively. The premium quality of petrol and diesel in Patna, however, cost Rs86.12 and Rs76.65 per litre.

 Industry experts said   in Patna were the second highest in the country after Mumbai on Wednesday. Its prices in the state capital increased by Re1 per litre in the last 48 hours, whereas diesel became costlier by 57 paise per litre.
 
 Commuters who thronged the fuel stations on Wednesday sounded angry over the soaring prices. “Common man is left with no other option but to bear the hit of increasing prices every day. Not only petrol and diesel, the prices of other commodities are also increasing. As far as I remember, the prices have never increased this much,” said  , who was taking petrol near Kargil Chowk.
 
 The steep hike in petrol prices has also given an opportunity to opposition parties to target the Narendra Modi government. While Congress workers burned PM Modi’s effigy in the city, leader of opposition   took a dig at the PM by saying, “petrol-diesel prices are going to make a century under the captaincy of PM Modi”.
 
 Explaining reasons behind the rise in petroleum prices, Bihar Petroleum Dealers Association (BPDA) president Prabhat Kumar Sinha told this newspaper on Wednesday: “This dynamic pricing can be attributed to the rising international crude oil prices and also the rising exchange rates of dollars over rupees. Although rates vary from state to state, depending on the VAT, which is the local sales tax. If the state government reduces VAT, the prices are expected to stabilize in the market. Moreover, the central government needs to cut excise duty to control the increasing prices.”
 
 Prof DM Diwakar, the head of economics division at AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies, also said international crude oil prices recorded a hike of 0.81 paise per barrel in the last 24 hours. “The crude oil price on Wednesday settled at US$71.86 per barrel whereas it was US$71.05 per barrel on Tuesday. The prices will rise further in the coming week,” he said.
 
 
