KOTA: The Jhalawar city police on Monday arrested a 38-year-old baba popular as   allegedly involved in   with teenage youths and for allegedly abetting a 20-year-old youth to suicide last month.

 The accused baba in the name of diksha would terrify the youths, indulge into sexual activities with them and later keep harassing and torturing them, the police said.
 
  
 
 
 The accused baba identified as Kuldeep Singh Jhala (38), a resident of Godam Basti was arrested following investigation into a case under Sections 306 and 354 of IPC for abetment of suicide lodged against him earlier this month, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Chagan Singh said.
 
 Singh said, father of a 20-year-old deceased youth identified as Yuvraj Singh, a resident of Jhalawar city who committed suicide on February 19 this year, lodged a case of abetment of suicide against the accused baba on March 1, he said.
 
 Singh said, following the investigation into the matter, it was revealed, the baba in the name of Diksha would take 17 to 20 years old youths into his private room after blinding their eye with strip, take off their clothes and indulge into gay sex with them in terrorizing background. The baba has been involved into hypocrite religious activities at his home, a portion of which turned into deity place since 2011 and has about 500 to 700 followers including women and girls in Jhalawar, he said. Once in a year during Navratra, the accused baba would disguise him as woman with makeup and lead a pompous procession though the markets of the city, the DSP said.
 
 He has a family of wife and two children but he stays separately with him, he added.
 
 The statements of about five seven youths were recorded during the investigation who confessed to have been subjected to vulgar activities, gay sex in the name of Diksha and later engaging them with vulgar mobile chats, the DSP said adding his sexual involvement with women has not been traced so far.
 
 The deceased youth, who committed suicide stayed with the baba throughout the time and was set to be engaged with a girl from Ujjan but when the baba came to know of his proposed engagement, he threatened him that he cannot get married and tortured him, the DSP said adding depressed and puzzled by the torture and harassment, the youth on ended his life on Feb 19 by hanging himself to the ceiling fan at his home.
 
 The accused baba would be produced before the court on Wednesday, the DSP added.
 
 
