BENGALURU: From Mylanahalli, north of Bengaluru, to KR Puram in the east, and Magadi Road in the west to HSR Layout in southeast Bengaluru, chief minister   went on a whistle-stop tour on Sunday. He inaugurated flyovers and roads and laid foundation stones for projects.
 
  
 While the news of longpending projects finally being complete brought some relief to citizens, the ground reality at most spots ensured that it didn’t last long.
 
 The biggest of the launches, the much-awaited alternative road to Kempegowda International Airport ( ), snaking through Hennur Road, Bagalur, Mylanahalli and Begur, is still not fully ready. M Lakshminarayan, additional chief secretary, public works department (PWD), said people will be able to use the road in a week.
 
 “The stretch from Mylanahalli to the airport is approximately 4km long. A 2-km stretch was opened on Sunday and is fully motorable. But we need to undertake road widening and asphalting on the 2-km road — 50ft on either side. Some cable work is pending too, and once it is done, the road will be ready,” he said.
 
 An airport spokesperson confirmed no work was pending from their end but also said some road infrastructure needed to be put in place. “It has been inaugurated but is not ready. Streetlights and street signs have to be put up. It will take a few days before the road can be used,” the spokesperson said.
 
 The 920-metre-long Hennur flyover, which leads to Geddalahalli and aims to decongest Outer Ring Road-Hennur Main Road junction and ease commuters’ woes, was officially declared open but wore an incomplete look.
 
 “I was looking forward to a smooth ride on the flyover on Sunday afternoon. But the tarring is not complete and the flyover will need another layer. It seems they have hurriedly finished the work to stick to a date they decided overnight. I could also see last-minute work like painting of medians and fixing of lights being done. It doesn’t compare to a flyover in any other part of the city,” said Mukund Subramaniam, resident of Hennur Main Road.
 
 Subramaniam went on to add that the service road on the Lingarajapuram side was still not accessible. “It has been cordoned off and is still occupied with mounds of sand and construction material. I think it will take a few more days to be complete,” he added.
 
 The CM also laid foundation stones and inaugurated several projects at ITI playground in KR Puram, including an underpass at Horamavu railway crossing, and flyovers at   junction and   junction. He laid the foundation stone for infrastructure facilities and development of main and connecting roads at   near Magadi Road and Swabhimana Tree Park in HSR Layout, developed by   and   jointly.
 
 
