CHENNAI: At the Wallajah Mosque on Saturday, Sharanya Gopinath tasted the sweet ‘kadalpaasi’, a traditional iftar dish made of seaweeds, for the first time in her life. For Sriganesh Raman, seated a few feet away from Sharanya in the courtyard of the mosque, it was the day he learned the role of a Hindu officer in the construction of the historic building.

 The motley group of Hindus, Muslims, and Christians – both Indians and foreigners – had gathered at the Wallajah or Big Mosque as part of a   and talk put together by historian Kombai S Anwar, on the history of the Muslims in Madras.
 
 “For the last three years I have been doing a Triplicane walk during   because I felt it would be a good way for non-Muslims to participate in the tradition of breaking the fast,” says Anwar, who specialises in the history of the Arcot Nawabs. “The history of Islam in Chennai is as old as the history of the faith in the Arab world because of the Arab traders who came to India.” Marco Polo, he says, wrote about seeing a Muslim caretaker at the Shrine of St Thomas, while ancient Arab geographers speak of Mylapore being ‘Behthuma’ or the ‘house of Thomas’.
 
 “This walk is not just about history but about culture and   different communities,” he says, adding that the Big Mosque in Triplicane built in 1794 by Muhammed Ali Khan Wallajah is an example of this.
 
 The nombu kanji eaten during iftar during Ramzan, for instance, has been cooked and served by the Sindi volunteers of the Sufidar Trust for three decades. More evidence, says Anwar, is seen in a chronogram inside the building near where the prayers take place, marking the date of construction as 1794. “The king had held a competition calling for people to create chronograms and the person who won was a Hindu officer Makhan Lal Khirat,” says Anwar.
 
 Raman, who works for a PR firm, says, “Apart from the chronogram, I was also fascinated with the history of the various Muslim sects in Chennai.” For Gopinath, the whole exercise was one of bonding and forging new friendships with people from  . “At the end of the walk, strangers were opening up to each other; it was a beautiful feeling of togetherness,” says the musician and communication professional.
 
 
