Monday morning at the   was brimming with activity as the members of   dropped in at the club to participate in the fourth edition of the Knight Golf tournament. This event has become a tradition for Team KKR where the management, players and supporters enjoy a day of golf and the proceeds are donated to charities. Around 80 club members, along with several kids from the club, took part in the tournament. 

  
 The sweltering heat didn’t deter the players and the members from having a memorable time playing golf on the lush green course of the club. The day started with a press conference where  , MD and team CEO, along with  , head coach of KKR, and Simon Katich addressed the media. 
 
  
 Kallis, who’s also a golf enthusiast, said, “It’s a wonderful initiative by the team and always nice to give back to the community by contributing 
 to charities.” 
 The players and members of the management who participated in the Putting Competition that happened post the golfing session were Robin Uthappa, Dinesh Karthik, Kuldeep Yadav, Shivam Mavi, Rinku Singh, Apoorv Wankhade, Derek Sedgman and Joydeep Mukherjee. 
 
  
 Dinesh Agarwal, a club member, said, “I loved the tournament as I got the opportunity to chat with international cricketers like Heath Streak, Mitchell Johnson and Jacques Kallis. My co-player was  , the team physio, and it was a pleasure playing with him.”
 The prize distribution ceremony of the golf competition held at the club was attended by Kolkata Knight Riders co-owner Juhi Chawla. She, along with Venky Mysore, awarded the winners of the tournament, which was played in the Texas Scramble format.   and team, including Anant Bajoria, Mayukh Ray and Jawahar Joshi, became the winners of Knight Golf 2018 and Tom Curran’s team was adjudged the first runner-up. 
 
  
 Robin Uthappa topped the Longest Iron Competition and Kuldeep Yadav became the winner of the Putting Competition. “This is the first time that Tolly Club hosted Team KKR. It was fun to see the cricketers coming to our club and playing golf,” said Tolly Club golf superintendent Gaurav Pundir. 
 
  
 The evening was followed by a cocktails dinner where the cricketers were seen enjoying themselves after the long day at the golf course. Club member Daniel Ghaznavi kept the party alive by singing some popular numbers like Imagine, Cowards of the county and Stand by me. “The charity aspect of the event stole my heart and so did Daniel’s amazing music,” said member Nayantara Palchoudhuri, who was seen having a good time at the party.
 
 
 
