KOCHI: The number of   ( ) and   for the Indian School Certificate-Examinations (CISCE) students shifting to state board schools in   has touched 2,605 this year as compared to 2,026 last year. These students have enrolled in various classes between Class II to Class X for this academic year.

 Deputy director education (Ernakulam), C A Santhosh, said that the admission for the new academic year would close on June 7.
 
 According to the data collected by the district education department, the number of students joining state board schools has been increasing over the past few years.
 
 For the 2016-17 academic year, 1,614 students had shifted to state school. “In the 2017-18 academic year, we saw this number increased to 2,026. This year, there has been a significant increase in the number of new admission to the state board school,” said the DDE.
 
 He added that most of these students who are transferring from other boards are shifting to either government or aided school and not to an unaided state board school.
 
 “One of the major concerns for parents is the school fee and once they are willing to admit student in a state board, they would rather admit them in government school or aided school that provides the same facilities as an unaided state board school,” said Santhosh.
 
 Director of public instruction K V Mohankumar said that number is likely to increase in the district during the final days of the admission process.
 
 He attributes the main cause of these transfers to the recent augmentation in school infrastructure, with hi-tech classroom, optic fibre internet connectivity and other infrastructure improvements.
 
 “There was a perception that the state’s public education was of second-grade quality, especially among the middle class. As part of the public education rejuvenation mission, the government has tried to put forward the initiatives they have undertaken with public outreach programmes such as teachers’ training programmes,” said  , vice-chairman and executive director, Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education.
 
