Bengaluru:   reported a paltry 2.5% IT services revenue growth on constant currency basis in the fourth quarter, compared to a year earlier, the weakest among its peers. The company was hobbled by bankruptcies of two of its clients – at least one of which is in the telecom vertical – and continued weakness in its healthcare business in the US.

 Wipro, which has now been overtaken by smaller rival   in terms of market capitalization, also issued a tepid guidance for the first quarter of 2018-19 as it takes the revenue hit from the bankruptcies in its books. For the quarter ending June 30, the company said revenue could drop by as much as 2% sequentially, and will remain flat in the best case scenario.
 
 Shares of the company took a beating on the New York Stock Exchange in morning trade with the American Depositary Receipts (ADR) down about 5% to $4.9. The disappointment is exacerbated by the fact that Wipro’s full year growth on constant currency crashed to 2.9% from 7% in 2016-17. In comparison, Infosys and   grew at 5.8% and 6.7% respectively.
 
 “We are disappointed at the loss of momentum in Q1 due to surprises out of bankruptcies faced by our two clients with a revenue run rate of over $50 million, additional impact in the HealthPlan Services business (in the US) as more clients exit the exchange market, and weakness in our communications business unit,” chief executive   said on Wednesday.
 
 Wipro is also yet to consider the impact of the divestiture of its hosted data centre services business to Ensono for a consideration of $405 million. The company said it will revise its outlook for the quarter based on the actual date of completion of the divestment.
 
 Wipro has, over the past few years, been hit by several extraneous factors which have added to its misery. For some years, its energy business backfired when oil prices went down – the company has a higher exposure to energy than its peers. Its HealthPlan Services acquisition, whose success depended on Obamacare, suffered due to legislative uncertainties; the company said the annualized run rate revenue of this has gone down by $150 million.
 
 In March, one of its telecom clients, said to be  , filed for insolvency. The British energy client Carillion went belly up earlier this year. “There are more headwinds to be prepared for in HPS,” Neemuchwala admitted.
 
 The insolvencies also dented the margins, down to 14.4% in the last quarter, from 18.3% in the preceding one. Excluding this impact, it was 16%. For the full year, it dropped to 15.8% from 18%. The numbers could not have been starker when compared to TCS, which is operating at about 25.4%.
 
 “A total $81 million hit for the full year of which $32 million was in Q4 and roughly two-thirds towards bankruptcies of two accounts and one third towards impairment loss,” chief financial officer Jatin Dalal said. Margins will come under further pressure in the current quarter due revenue headwinds and salary increases, which comes into effect from June 1.
 
 
