PATNA: The recent arrest of income tax joint commissioner   for allegedly molesting a minor girl from Sikkim has raised questions over the safety of girls studying in private residential coaching institutes of the city.

 According to state education department officials, of the 2,400 coaching institutes in Patna, only 190 are registered with the department.
 
 Former DGP Abhyanand, who runs Abhyanand Super 30, urged the government to come up with strict rules and regulations for coaching institutes. “Only a handful of coaching institutes in Patna follow the   (Control & Regulation) Act, 2010 under which they are supposed to register with the government,” he said.
 
 To provide accommodation to the eight girls in his coaching institute on Bypass Road, the former DGP has rented a flat nearby. He said, “After the classes are over, girls go back to their flat with their warden   who also lives with them.”
 
 Rahmani 30, run by Maulana Mohammad Wali Rahmani, has separate coaching institutes for girls and boys. Both buildings, except the rooms where the students reside, are under CCTV surveillance. At the girls’ coaching centre, male teachers are allowed only in classrooms that are also equipped with cameras.
 
 “Parents send their kids to far off places so that they study and perform well. How will they trust us if such shameful incidents take place?” asked Rahmani.
 
 A student, residing at a girls’ hostel on Ramna Road, claimed she paid Rs 9,000 per month for food and lodging facilities. “After the molestation incident came to light, we asked our warden to hire female attendants and cooks. Most of the hostel staff, including sweepers, are men,” she said.
 
 Although satisfied with the security arrangements at her daughter’s hostel-cum-coaching institute on Khazanchi Road, Muzaffarpur resident Urmila Devi has instructed her to “stay safe”. “I keep checking on her and visit her once a month,” she told this newspaper.
 
 According to state education minister Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma, such incidents bring bad name to the state.
 
 He said, “The safety of girl students should be the priority of coaching institutes. Once the Bihar board exams end, the department will hold a meeting with the heads of different coaching institutes running with and without licence in the city. Those found flouting the existing rules will be shut.” 
 
 
