Ludhiana: A Romanian national and his British accomplice — who were arrested for trying to dupe a money exchanger in Khanna with 1,000 counterfeit euros on April 27 — earlier conned businessmen at Ludhiana’s Samarla Chowk, and in Shimla and Nawanshahr, of Rs 4.11 lakh, said an official of Khanna police here on Friday.

 The SHO of Khanna City police station, Rajneesh Sood, said the duo had carried out these crimes within a month. “They stayed in Philippines for a month before this, and reached there from their home countries,” the SHO added.
 
 Three days after Mision Mihai George, a resident of Romania’s Timis county, was arrested, Khanna police had nabbed his accomplice, London resident Jason Gobin (31), on April 30. The arrest was made on the basis of inputs provided by George.
 
 The SHO said the accused arrived in India on April 4, and had travelled to Shimla, where they conned two money exchangers of Rs 36,000 and Rs 39,000. The police official could not give the exact dates on which they carried out the alleged crimes.
 
 The SHO said the accused then exchanged counterfeit euros for Rs 2.08 lakh with two shopkeepers in Nawanshahar (Rs 94,800) and Rahon (Rs 1.06 lakh). “They then conned a money exchanger in Samrala Chowk of Rs 1.28 lakh by exchanging 1,650 counterfeit euros,” he said. Their run came to an end when George tried to exchange 1000 fake euros for Rs 79,000 at a shop in Khanna.
 
 The police official said Gobin’s used-car business back home had failed, and he had decided to travel after that. The SHO also could not ascertain if the accused had used the same modus operandi — of George dressing up as a woman— to keep his whereabouts secret. “By the time we arrested them, the accused had conned businessmen of Rs 4.1 lakh in Nawanshahar, Ludhiana and Shimla. We have recovered Rs.4.36 lakh from them. They are in judicial custody right now,” he added.
 
 ___
 
 Russian link
 
 Police said a Russian man was with the accused duo, Romania’s Mision Mihai George and UK’s Jason Gobin, when they had stayed in Philippines before coming to India. “But he stayed there only. The counterfeit currency was brought from Romania,” he said.
 
 ‘Conned people to fund sex-change op’
 
 Police said Romania’s Mision Mihai George was a transgender woman and had been duping money exchangers in India with counterfeit euros so that he could afford to undergo a sex-change operation. “This is what he has told us,” said the cop.
 
 
