With director   all set to foray into Bollywood with Sidharth Malhotra-starrer biopic on Kargil war hero  , the spotlight has again turned to Kollywood and its talent. While the cross-border movie-making culture has been prevalent for quite some years, we take a look at the current set of directors who went on to wield the megaphone in Bollywood.

 
 This multi-faceted artiste directed his first Hindi movie in 1997 — Chachi 420. His Vishwaroopam was titled Vishwaroop in Hindi and he is also ready with the sequel to the movie both in Tamil and Hindi. His ongoing directorial, Sabaash Naidu, is also being made in Hindi with the title Shabhash Kundu. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 He’s a man who wears many hats. After establishing himself as a dancer, choreographer and actor, Prabhudheva tried his hands at direction in Tamil and Telugu. And soon, he moved on to Bollywood and directed Wanted, remake of Pokkiri, starring Salman Khan. Wanted’s success ensured he got a slew of movies post that: Rowdy Rathore, Ramaiya Vastavaiya, R...Rajkumar, Action Jackson and Singh Is Bliing in Hindi. Prabhudheva will again get back to direction with Dabangg 3 starring Salman Khan. 
 
 
 Described as the man with the Midas touch, AR Murugadoss debuted in Hindi with the remake of his Tamil film, Ghajini. Aamir Khan played the lead role in the Hindi version and the movie catapulted ARM, as he is fondly called, to the top spot — he became one of the most sought-after directors in Bollywood. Ghajini went on to become the first Indian movie to reach the 100-crore-collection-mark at the domestic box office. ARM has also directed Holiday (Thuppakki remake) with Akshay Kumar, and Akira, a remake of the Tamil film Mouna Guru, with   playing the titular role. 
 
 
 Known for his cop stories and romantic films, Gautham Menon made his Bollywood debut with the remake of his own Minnale. Titled Rehnaa Hai Terre Dil Mein, the film had Madhavan reprising his role, with Diya Mirza and Saif Ali Khan forming the rest of the cast. He also remade his   as Ekk Deewana Tha with Prateik and Amy Jackson. 
 
 
 He started his directorial career with Gentleman in Kollywood. Later, Shankar forayed into Bollywood with the remake of his Arjun-starrer Mudhalvan — Nayak: The Real Hero. The film had Anil Kapoor playing the lead.
 
 
 In his career spanning 25 years, KS Ravikumar has directed some of the most popular films in Tamil. His versatility is such that he has handled films from comedy to action and thrillers. He made his Bollywood debut with Policegiri, the remake of the Tamil film Saamy, which was directed by Hari. The Hindi film starred Sanjay Dutt in the lead, but failed to create the expected impact at the box office. 
 
 
 He remade his romantic comedy Kalyana Samayal Saadham in Hindi as Shubh Mangal Saavdhan, and is said to be getting ready for its sequel, too. 
 
 
 Susi Ganeshan entered Bollwood with Shortcut Romeo, a remake of his Tamil film, Thiruttu Payale.
 
