GURUGRAM: The half-a-dozen incidents of violence across the district on the day before release of the controversial film  , leave little scope for doubt the state security and administrative services suffered a massive intelligence failure. Despite a dozen teams from the intelligence wing claiming to have tracked the movement of suspected elements, the situation was tense all day on Wednesday across the city. 

 What is surprising is that hooligans could gather and created ruckus on roads, attack people and damage property, despite prohibitory orders being issued a day before i.e. on Tuesday.   had information some miscreants had booked tickets for the première show online, and would damage property inside mall multiplexes, and were deployed inside theatres. But with the situation getting tense, bars and clubs in the malls downed shutters after 8pm.
 
 Gurgaon is always high on media’s priority list, which means anti-socials seeking attention frequently choose the city to conduct eye-catching stunts. Knowing this, it was important that intelligence agencies kept a strict surveillance on anyone who could possibly disrupt peace, to avoid an Ahmedabad-like situation, where malls were vandalised on Tuesday. District magistrate   had instructed all concerned duty magistrates and sub-divisional magistrates to speak with representatives of these Rajput villages, to ensure villagers were not misled into joining mobs. 
 
 Yet, there were at least six assemblies across the district, despite the imposition of Section 144 CrPC across the city. The worse hit was NH-248A (Gurgaon-Alwar road). Here, a roadways bus and a school bus were attacked separately at   village — one of Gurgaon’s 63 Rajput villages — though the miscreants are suspected to be the same group. A senior official later revealed that prima facie, it appeared the mob in Bhondsi was from Gurgaon’s Rajput villages.
 
 Later in the day, Vinay Pratap Singh said, “We’ve imposed Section 144 CrPC till Sunday, and deputed 25 duty magistrates in the city. There are no orders to close schools on Thursday. There’s heavy deployment of cops and the mob is being brought under control. We’ll take further decisions as the situation evolves.”
 
 
