Rajinikath has flicked cigarettes, caught bullets with his bare hands and created tornados by a swirl of his index finger. But the smartest thing he ever did was delivering a 35-minute speech at the   Educational and Research Institute in Chennai on Monday.

 In his first loud and clear political speech, Rajini sought to snatch the MGR legacy from the AIADMK with one hand and float his spiritual politics to checkmate the   with the other. And the collateral damage appeared to be Kamal Haasan.
 
 Whatever Rajini does evokes applause, but this one was as tactical as it was dramatic. AIADMK minister D Jayakumar, who has been specialising in similes by way of delivering retorts, said Rajini is but a sparrow in front of the eagle that is the AIADMK. What he didn’t say is that the actor’s words have created quite a flutter in the ruling party circles.
 
 "It was like gnawing at our grassroots while trying to take away our canopy," said a party insider. Rajini did it with finesse, recreating MGR as a demi-god, acknowledging Jayalalithaa as the late high priest, and offering the ‘orphaned’ AIADMK followers a new guardian who answers to the name Superstar.
 
 For more than four decades, encomiums had sat with ease on MGR’s shoulders, and the AIADMK had called him Puratchi Thalaivar (revolutionary leader) for more than four decades. Now Rajini went panegyric, bestowing new titles on MGR — Yuga Purushan (the one who comes once in an era), Daiva Piravi (god’s avatar), Marma Manidhan (enigma man) and Maya Manidhan (magical man). He also dusted and brought back a title — Ponmana Chemmal (the one with the golden heart) — that old-timers hadn’t forgotten, but didn’t often recollect either. Rajini was carefully dressing up the old MGR for his own new political procession.
 
 Rajini now fired a double salvo: "Is there a leadership vacuum in the state? Yes, there is. After two great leaders Jayalalithaa (who died on December 5, 2016) and Kalaignar (M Karunanidhi who retired from active politics a couple of years ago) left, Tamil Nadu doesn’t have a good leader. I will give you an MGR-like rule." Translation: Not just followers of the rudderless AIADMK, DMK cadres too deserve a good leader. Here I am.
 
  was milder in his reaction to Rajini’s statement. "I don’t agree there is a leadership vacuum in Tamil Nadu," said the DMK leader. "The people also don’t agree with that statement."
 
 What should worry Stalin more in days to come would be Rajini’s threat to all those who ridiculed his spiritual side: "You will soon know what spiritual politics is." Rajini may not be able to come out with a convincing definition of the oxymoronic term, but it could well look attractive to many Dravidian party cadres whose religious beliefs have had an uneasy cohabitation with the rationalist roots of their parties.
 
 But then, Rajini needs to remind himself that Monday was only a trailer; the movie is yet to begin. As his political script plays out, the star would need a lot of stamina and clarity to take on the established Dravidian Goliaths, especially the DMK which has an impeccable organisational structure under the undisputed leadership of Stalin.
 
 Till then, he may enjoy the trailer. If it was an unplanned speech, as the actor claimed, he has a future in oration. If it was a thought-out speech, as it appeared to be, he has a future in politics. Ah yes, since he is  , he can be both.
 
 
