“Uttarayan” or the Kite festival culminates on 14 January, “Makara Sankranti” - a day observed sacred according to Hindu Tradition/Indian Calendar. The day marks the change in season from the deep slumber of chilly winters to the dawn of the great Indian summer, signaling the farmers that the harvesting month is close by. The festival spans over a week and sometimes more; disseminated across different cities in the state, but the International Kite Day is observed in Ahmedabad!

 Despite the obscurity in the history of how kites ever came to be in the country, the festival has managed to transcend all geographical boundaries and religious sects, for everyone indulges themselves in the revelry and merrymaking. From young school going children to elder citizens and from locals to tourists, visitors, and kite enthusiasts,   is also considered as a homecoming event for those who live in other states. 
 
 The day starts early in every household. Women prepare ceremonial delicacies like Till ke ladoo, Undhyu, Chikki and Surati jamun in the kitchen. Children who drag their feet daily at the mention of school can be seen dashing in and out of the house early in the morning. Young adults and most of the children gather in small groups at their rooftops trying to catch the morning breeze and soar their kites as high as they can. People get their kites made weeks before the day by their trusted kite experts. Everyone can be seen busy honing their specially prepared strings called 'Manjha', which is a combination of glue and glass over the fiber to make it sharp. It is important because one of the most important things in the kite flying festival is to cut the strings of rival kites. This friendly battle fought in the mid-air fills the sky with numerous colours which is a unique sight. Shops are closed and everybody is seen on their roofs of the houses in groups, making it a collective celebration. The celebration doesn't end with the sun setting. 
 
 As soon as night falls, the night sky on the International Kite Day is lighted up with hundreds of paper lanterns or 'Tukkals' making it a great view that is sure to warm up your soul.
 
  
  
 
 It has been reported that many kite enthusiasts from different parts of the country and world, along with over 150 delegates from various countries like New Zealand, Malaysia, United Kingdom, South Korea, and China etc. gridlock the state days before to join the pompous and exuberant festive.
 
 From Emojis to the classic Chinese Dragons, every possible shapes and sizes of kites in vibrant hues fill up the   sky on this day. Undoubtedly, many new innovations and additions to the festival are made with different kites being flown across the state by many a kite enthusiasts, however Rasulbhai Rahimbhai of Ahmedabad, the famous Kite master whose 500 kites on a single string remains uncontested. 
 
  
  
 
 If you are around, make sure you visit the   and  , the famous kite market where all the supplies are stocked. The stocks are available weeks prior to the much awaited day.
 
 Tips: The best place to enjoy the festival is at Sabarmati Riverfront followed by the Ahmedabad Police Station.
 
