With less than a month to go for the Karnataka Assembly elections, numerous drives and campaigns are being organised, urging Bengalureans to come out and vote on May 12. In addition to this, this year, extra efforts were made to ensure that the registration is a smooth process. But was it? Bangalore Times spoke to a few first time voters about the process and what their expectations are from the next government...

 
 
 Several youngsters, who registered themselves for the upcoming elections can’t wait to exercise their right. “I am very excited because I have been waiting to cast my vote for the longest time. We often hear youngsters say, ‘Who cares’, but being a citizen of the country, we all should care,” says 18-year-old Bhavana N. But is the process simple and efficient? “The process, right from registering yourself to getting your voters ID is not very effective. It’s not efficient as many of us are unaware of the process. There is no clarity. In addition to that, it takes a long time to even get your voters ID,” says 21-year-old Prithvika Prasad. Similarly, Tanvi Shetty, a 21-year-old student says that though registration was easy, it’s been over three months and she is yet to receive her voters ID. “The registration process was held in our college, so it was easy for us to register but it’s been over three months and I still haven’t received my voters ID. Every time I ask, I’m told that I should be getting it soon,” says Tanvi.
 
 
 
 Better infrastructure, women’s safety and a model city are what these first-time voters seek from the upcoming government. But that’s not all. “Officials in the public offices need to be trained to be people friendly. For instance, police officials are citizen- friendly online, with them responding quickly to queries. But if someone has to file a complaint in the police station, they usually don’t do it because cops are not friendly. There needs to be a reform within the system so that the citizens feel comfortable while interacting with officials,” says Prithvika.
 
 Similarly, Yugesh G Naidu, a 20-year-old says that corruption is an issue that needs to be addressed immediately. “No work gets done without bribing government officials. You need to shell out money even for a small job like applying for your driving license. Every system is corrupt. When you have such a system, who will want to vote?” says Yugesh. Twenty-one-year-old Nishanth Naidu says that the system is bad right to its core. “Most of the times, officials throw their weight around because of their post and position. The system is rotten to its core,” he adds.
 
 Apart from corruption, women’s safety is a burning issue for these youngsters, as they feel that the government needs to up its game and make sure women feel safe in the city. “The government should impose stricter laws for crimes against women, such as hanging the rapists to death in public. This will bring in fear amongst people who commit such inhuman acts,” says Tanvi.
 
 
 
 Even though they are excited to cast their vote, it is the lack of deserving candidates that puts these youngsters off as they feel that these politicians do not represent their values and ideals. “Most of our candidates need to be well educated and sensitized about the issues that worry us,” says Tanvi, adding that, “They also need to keep their promises and not just please us right before the elections.”
 But all is not lost, as they feel there is a glimmer of hope. “In order to bring a reform in the political system, we need younger, open minded politicians. I know that it will take a long time, but if there are younger people, who are willing to jump into   and genuinely work for the society, you will actually see the difference. It’s a long shot, but it is possible,” Nishanth sums up.
 
 
 
