PATNA: Chief minister (CM)   on Thursday urged the Centre to exempt different items required for running community kitchen – better known as ‘langar’ – in gurdwaras from the ambit of Goods and Services Tax (GST).

 In a letter to addressed to   finance minister-cum-chairperson of GST Council Arun Jaitley, Nitish said it was his considered view that levy of tax should be limited to the activities which are undertaken for business. “Any activity which is not pursued as part of any business or which is not incidental or connected to any business activity should be kept away from the ambit of taxation,” the letter stated.
 
 “You will agree that gurdwaras are engaged in charitable activities and are well recognized as centres of selfless service. The most prominent of such activities is providing food through ‘langars’, to everyone and anyone who visit a gurdwara. Even though food served through a ‘langar’ is not liable to tax under the GST, some significant inputs like sugar, ghee, edible oil and spices are taxable. The GST on these items increases the expenditure of gurdwaras,” the CM said in his letter.
 
 Nitish further said the imposition of GST on ‘langar’ items should be discouraged in view of the sanctity of the community kitchen.
 
 Bihar has one of the five most important gurdwaras of Sikh community. Being the birthplace of tenth Sikh Guru  , the Takhat Sri Harmandir Sahib Gurdwara in Patna City is one of the five most revered gurdwaras of the Sikh community.
 
 Earlier on Thursday, Union food processing minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal met Nitish in New Delhi and requested him to support her demand for exempting ‘langar’ items from the ambit of GST.
 
 On Badal’s request, the CM spoke to his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi and enquired about the GST on  . He also assured Badal that he would demand exemption of ‘langar’ items from the ambit of the GST.
 
 “The Golden Temple in Amritsar runs the world’s largest community kitchen. The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee spends around Rs 75 crore annually to purchase desi ghee, sugar and pulses. Now, it would have to bear an additional financial burden on these purchases as they come under 5 to 18% GST bracket,” Badal told reporters after meeting Nitish.
 
 However, it could not be immediately known the total amount the management committee of   gurdwara spends on preparation of ‘langar’ annually. Former senior vice-president of Takhat Sri Harmandir Sahib Gurdwara R S Jeet, however, said they purchase ‘langar’ items after paying the GST.
 
 
