NEW DELHI: They may assist police in dealing with street crime, but left unattended in a haphazard manner, road barricades are a major cause of concern to motorists. Unlike abroad, there are neither lights atop these barricades to warn road users nor is fluorescent paint used to aid visibility. Moreover, barricades are often placed near curves and catch drivers off guard.

 TOI has seen a   near the Defence Colony police station that remains aslant on the road even during the morning peak hours if it is not moved by a concerned motorist. Senior police officers said on Thursday that standard instructions have been issued to all SHOs to ensure that the barricades are removed once the shift is over, but in reality they are casually left at the roadside, frequently causing traffic obstructions. In some colonies, rusty barricades can be seen discarded on the roads. Without reflectors to warn of their presence, they are also a hazard at night. Police officers claimed reflector plates erode due to lack of maintenance and are almost never replaced.
 
  places more than 5,000 barricades every night at pickets or to bar entry to colony roads. The ones used for the latter are often the older type that does not have a locking mechanism or wheels and is often secured with wires. This heavy sort was what took Abhishek Kashyap’s life in Shakurpur. 
 
 Abroad, traffic managers have moved to plastic barricades that can be recycled once their life is over. 
 
 Delhi Police too procured 800 new barricades recently and deployed them around central and Lutyens Delhi area. The aim is to make the barricades lighter and less hazardous even in case of collisions. These barricades will not only be fitted with reflectors, but will also be designed to allow policemen to stand on them while keeping watch. There is an additional provision of using ropes to bind several barricades together. “As you can see, these are much heavier, stronger and sturdier too,” said an officer.
 
 On a normal day, cops put up three-four pickets on every major arterial stretches past 11pm, but the numbers go up if there is a specific threat alert. On Thursday, Delhi Police removed most of these barricades from the arterial roads possibly due to the criticism they faced after the Shakurpur incident.
 
  
  
 
 
