By his own admission, Sandalwood actor   has always had a special affinity with the coast. “I think it’s always been there in me — the love for nature, the enchanting temples here and of course, the beaches. Earlier though, I’d never step into the water. It took my first film   to take a dip in the sea,” says the actor, who is once again in the coastal city to attend the jeernoddhara of a temple at Kharje, a village in Udupi district. Now of course, there’s a renewed vigour to this connection. “My wife   is from this region and the love for   has gone up. I can see where she gets her dignity and lovable nature from... she embodies the very qualities of this region,” he observes fondly. 
Yash is in the coastal region on a two-day trip and he shares with us his numerous observations. “And these are aspects that I’ve come to notice over the years and after my numerous trips here — more personal ones than professional — I’ve realised that this region is indeed blessed. The people are an industrious and hard-working lot. They don’t like idling and whiling away time. Look at anybody on the street and they’re all engrossed in work. Not to forget the dignity that is so prevalent amongst its people. They’re subtle and soft spoken along with the spirit to do something for their land. Whenever I’ve gone abroad, be it Dubai or the US or for that matter even Mumbai, it’s people from the Karavali who shine brighter than the rest. In fact, they’re the ones who’ve had an integral hand in bringing glory to  ,” states Yash.
 A man who’s always displayed his passion for community work, cultural heritage and preservation of nature, Yash is mighty impressed with the cultural turnout of Tulunaadu. “I attended a feliciation function during my stay here. It was at a tiny hamlet. And what touched me most was that the folks being honoured had brought along their parents. I was moved by their commitment towards family. This is why I like visiting villages — it gives you a glimpse of the real world,” he concedes. Yash is also well informed about the Yakshagana scenario. “I’ve heard there are more than 70 varieties of this art; just imagine now if they would be a cultural extravaganza where these Yakshagana artistes could drum up over 1,000 supporters from their respective hamlets. What a visual treat it’d be to walk in a procession. I wish such a day could be observed in the Karavali’s cultural calendar. Tourism wise, it has so much potential. I visited Miami last and I feel a tourism hub like that could be easily created here, given the landscape of Tulunaadu. More than anything, I really appreciate the fact that   is the best representation of a modern society — the old and new blend in seamlessly here,” he sums up.
 
