CHENNAI: Is the Chennai residential market abysmally down or have many developers got it completely wrong?

 Two international realty consultants came out with conflicting reports recently about residential project launches and apartment sales in the city in 2017. But what both the agencies concurred on was that the going is not good for the developer community.
 
 A closer look at the market shows while the going is tough owing to a general slowdown, most developers struggle primarily because of wrong conceptualisation of projects rather than reluctance on the part of buyers to invest their money. Those who have reengineered their projects to suit the market are reaping benefits. For instance, two projects in upmarket  , promoted by   and VGN, turned around after the developers reconfigured the apartment sizes. Both the projects went through the cumbersome approval process twice – something that is unheard of in the industry – to adapt to the market conditions and customers’ requirement.
 
  said he had initially got approval for 24 units, each measuring roughly 5,000 sq ft. “We priced it at Rs 15 crore per unit, at Rs 30,000 per sq ft, but there were no takers. We were fast to realise that Chennai market was not yet ready for largesized luxury projects. The entire project was scrapped. We went back to the drawing table and redesigned it with a new architect. The new apartment sizes started from 2,000 sq ft and the number of units went up to 48. We finished the project in 11 months and sold out more than 75% of the units”.
 
 Saleability of apartments depends on three key factors right location, right apartment sizes and right price. As a developer moves farther from the city, the unit size should reduce, said P Suresh, MD of city-based Arun Excello. “We clock sales of about 100 budget apartments per month despite the slump. Our ticket size is Rs 20 lakh per unit and we go up to 35 km from the city,” he said.
 
 In the suburbs, within a radius of 20 km from the city where the middle-income families invest, a ticket size of Rs 40-50 lakh per unit sells fast. Even with the right pricing and location, if the developer keeps the apartment sizes big, sales take a hit.
 
 Casa Grand, one of the major players in the city, has scripted a rare success story by selling more than 2,000 apartments per annum in recent years. “We do sales worth Rs 1,300 crore per annum even today. The sales during the initial few months were low this financial year, but from December to February, we did Rs 750 crore business,” said Arun Kumar, MD, Casa Grand.
 
 A quick look at the numbers of the first month of 2018 reveals that the market is changing for good. With new launch sales of 500 units across the top 7 cities of India in January 2018, new launch sales have doubled from December 2017, said Anuj Puri, chairman,  . “This uptick is a major motivational boost to stakeholders who had been grappling with subdued demand for the past few years,” he said.
 
 
