NAVI MUMBAI: Despite the   ( )'s anti-encroachment squads initiating a number of drives against the debris mafia in and around the city, truckloads of waste continues to be dumped on wetlands. The recent victim of the mindless debris dumping has been a 500m green patch behind   exhibition ground, which is a stone's throw from the jogging track of   along the Palm Beach Road. The lake is known as Jewel of Navi Mumbai. 

 The trees and the mangroves behind the ground are being destroyed, alleged locals. The debris is also choking the storm water line which opens into the lake. 
 
 "NMMC is not doing enough to break the nexus between the debris mafia and land-grabbers. They dump waste on green patches and target encroached lands," complained a local. The usurped spots turn into dumping yards and lead to dust pollution and other health issues as most of the debris is construction waste, he alleged. 
 
 "The dumping activity on the green patch has remained unchecked for the last few days. The stretch extends from T S Chanakya signal to Tandel ground. Debris dumping has been going on for some time now but authorities remain mute spectators," said activist Santush Patil. 
 
 NMMC recently finalised a proposal to beautify Tandel ground for sports and other activities. Residents now feel that the project will be derailed, thanks to the dumping. 
 
 NMMC commissioner Ramaswami N told TOI, "Civic officers have been asked to beef up surveillance activity at all green spots that are prone to debris dumping and take stringent action against the perpetrators." 
 
 Tushar Pawar, NMMC's deputy commissioner (solid waste management), said, "We are digging up trenches around patches where debris is being dumped. However, at Tandel ground, trucks can easily enter and dump waste, making our task more challenging." 
 
 But locals are not ready to buy any excuse. "NMMC must initiate strategic measures to stop these racketeers who are involved in land grabbing here. They are killing the green cover," said a resident, Suraj Patil.
 
 "All agencies are passing the buck. This will encourage the debris and land mafia. Soon, illegal slums will come up on these wetlands," said  , another resident. 
 
  Belapur ward officer Shashikant Tandel said, "Officials of the anti-nuisance squad of zone-I have been instructed to stop such dumping and take s action."
 
 
