NAGPUR: Even as director,   (BoEE) Neeraj Khaty on Wednesday sought more time to put up documents related to November 13, 2006 BoE meeting, Nagpur University’s (NU) newly elected Senate members and outfits demanded immediate action against the guilty involved in regularizing bogus marklist of LLB student Sunil Mishra.

 Speaking to TOI, vice-chancellor SP Kane said the director has sought more time. “He asked me to extend the deadline by two or three days to gather the documents related to the case,” Kane said.
 
 Taking note of the TOI report dated April 9, the VC had written to the BoEE director asking him to place all important documents related to the surrender of Mishra’s marklist within three days.
 
 Khaty couldn’t be contacted till late on Wednesday. Surprisingly, the exam section has a ready set of the documents that were procured by TOI in an RTI query on Monday.
 
 Sources said since the case involves former top officials including ex-VC SN Pathan, Gaurishanker Parasher, Subhash Belsare and ML Nagargoje, there is pressure on the director to delay the case.
 
 However, Senate and Shikshan Manch, which has its members in majority on statutory bodies, demanded immediate action.
 
 Keshav Mendhe, Senate member from college teachers’ category, said the NU must adopt same approach as it did in case of Dr Vedprakash Mishra. “If immediate action is not taken, we will raise our voice through various medium. Sunil Mishra must be punished as per norms and brought to justice. I will place more evidence against him when the Senate meets,” he said.
 
 Kalpana Pande, coordinator of Shikshan Manch, said she was worried at the recent developments in the university and the bad publicity it is getting. “Every other day there is a something wrong happening here. The culprit should definitely be punished and the marklist case must be put on fast track. Just because of a handful people, the image of university is getting tarnished. Ultimately, the students are suffering since these scams and frauds keep dogging them when they go out of the city. The university and the students must not suffer.”
 
 Omprakash Chimankar, Senate member from university teachers’ category, said, the BoEE must immediately take action against the guilty. “I will study the case in detail and raise it before the Senate when it meets,” he said.
 
 Manmohan Bajpai, member from graduates’ constituency, said he will raise the question during the next meeting. “There are several other irregularities too and the university must show the same zeal in those cases too. I will put up all these questions before the administration,” he said.
 
 
