AHMEDABAD: Between April 10 and 14 this year, 13 days before the full bench of the   (NHRC) was to visit the police academy at Karai near Ahmedabad for an open sitting, three   officials conducted surprise inspections of the implementation of central and state-level schemes for tribal people and at SC-dominated villages in Kheda, Panchmahal and  . This is what the NHRC found.
 
  
 
 Undernourished children were being fed poor quality and inadequate food under the mid-day meal scheme. Illegal and arbitrary methods were adopted for allotting houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and the Indira Awas Yojana. Foodgrain was being diverted from Fair Price Shops. Toilet construction was faulty, incomplete and at some places completely missing. Children at anganwadis were in poor health and their health records were being fudged. There was a lack of facilities and doctors at PHCs. The NREGA scheme was not properly implemented among many other government failings. The report, though ready with the NHRC on April 27, was not revealed during a press interaction.
 
 The NHRC inspection team included DySP (investigation) I T Kurillose, junior legal consultant Monis Ahmad and assistant registrar (law) K K Shrivastav. In the case of Bhumas village in Kheda, the NHRC found that beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Ujwala Yojana scheme were forced to pay a gas agency Rs 300 and Rs 400 as LPG transportation charges! The team also found just one primary girls school had been set up in the district, at village Pij, under the Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya, scheme since 2004. The team asked why there was just one school in the entire district. At Narukot village in Panchmahal district, the NHRC team found the PDS system was short of 200kg wheat and 850kg of rice. The team suspects it was sold in the open market.
 
 The team visited Garkhaya village in Dahod and examined two children — Manvi and Pratiksha — and found them underweight and sick. Yet, their records showed that they were healthy. The children were immediately put on a “red” list.
 
 
