NAGPUR: On a day when TOI reported about Nagpur University’s failure to reveal the names of 98   that are in process to be disqualified, its administration on Tuesday, uploaded entire list of 200 such colleges and courses where it has frozen admissions for new academic session (2018-19).

 The university warned students against taking   in any of these colleges. It clarified that if students still prefer those colleges, NU wouldn’t be responsible for their fate, as they wouldn’t be allowed to appear in  . The students are advised to go through the list of ‘blacklisted’ colleges before taking admissions.
 
 The list published by deputy registrar from college section, Pradeep Biniwale, mentioned that NU had put these institutions in the blacklist for failure to comply with stringent norms, including appointments of full-time teachers and non-teaching staff, and also for not erecting adequate infrastructure. 
 
 “The first list has 98 colleges that are in process of disaffiliation. Second one contains 28 colleges that failed to invite our Local Enquiry Committees (LECs) for inspection while the third one of 82 colleges had their branches closed for failure to appoint regular teachers. But these 82 colleges are not totally closed,” pro-VC Pramod Yeole told TOI.
 
 The list of colleges which are going to be disaffiliated included those from noted groups like Meghe, Raisoni, Pandav, Manoharbhai Patel, Waghaye Patil, Suresh Deshmukh, Vidyaniketan, Shantiniketan, Real, Adarsh and Motghare among others. A majority of these colleges are from arts, commerce and science faculties offering general courses like BA, BCom, BSc, BBA, BCA and others.
 
 The second list of 28 colleges contains two engineering colleges — Acharya Vinoba Bhave Institute of Technology and Om College — both located in Wardha.
 
 Even the list of 82 colleges whose branches were stopped from admitting students in PG courses included engineering colleges like Raisoni, Priyadarshini, Wainganga, JD, Nuva, Gurunanak and others. Branches of some renowned colleges like Shivaji Science, Dhanwate, Mahila Mahavidyalaya, Jagdamba, Renaissance, Prajasattak, Dhruv, Pushpak, Vivekanand and Purushottam Thote also found their names in the blacklist.
 
 NU officials said, a majority of these colleges belonged to local politicians and education barons, which are being operated sans a single teacher and infrastructure, since their inception. “Such colleges were mushroomed in 2000 to 2010, when the government started scholarships for backward class students. Majority of them survived on that amount and also involved in embezzlement of funds. It was only after the government tightened screws in scholarship distribution after TOI exposed the scam that these colleges felt pinch and have started closing down on their own,” they said.
 
 
