Friday started on a musical note at the   in   when a cappella groups from ten Delhi colleges came together to take part in an inter-college competition called ‘Pitch, Please!’. The colleges included Lady Shri Ram, Jesus and Mary,  ,  , among others.

  
  Audience cheering up for the contestants
 
 
 
 Susan Thomas, who is pursuing History (Hons) from Jesus and Mary College, said, "Events like these make us believe in our abilities. Most people don't know what a cappella is, so it gives me great pleasure to see so many prestigious colleges come together and bring alive this art." Sange Tungon, a student from LSR, whose team won at the competition, said, "I am part of my college's western music society for the past three years and it's fun to be part of the group. Today's competition was great, we enjoyed and learned a lot."
 
  
  Students during their performance
 
 Arjun Gurung, a third year student of   from Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies, said, "After taking part in every competition, my group members and I ponder on the mistakes we made. Though we were second runners-up in this competition, we will try and win it next time. It was a great opportunity to learn as we got some amazing feedback from professionals. I think my college should also organize such events as it gives a platform to budding artists."
 
  
  Students of Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies at the contest
 
 
 
 Aditya Balani, Founder and Director of the music institute, said, "This is the first time we are organising an a cappella competition. Our college's faculty judged the competition based on criteria like stage presence, team work and vocal techniques." Luiza Sales, voice faculty at the institute, said, "It is nice to see students from different colleges take part in this competition. We judged the students on many criteria, but what mattered the most was how the audience felt after listening to their performance." She added, "Noida has many universities, and thanks to the many open areas here, the city gives musicians a chance to focus. I see the reflection in my practice too as I am able to concentrate well here."
 
  
  
 
  
 
