NAGPUR: The state public works department ( ) has planned   works worth a whopping Rs6,740 crore in 11 districts of   under the new ‘hybrid annuity’ model. One of the major advantages will be contractors being responsible for quality of works for 10 years, as against existing defect liability period of three years.

 
 
  
  
 
 
 Adopted from the   ( ), the hybrid annuity model is expected to help the PWD execute road works without imposing a toll tax, and also stagger payments to contractors over a longer period, instead of a bulk payment at the end of construction.
 
 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Monday reviewed the model and directed PWD to begin execution of the works before monsoon.
 
 PWD plans to execute the road works in packages, clubbing two or more roads. The PWD has taken up 150 packages, of which 50 in Vidarbha have been taken up for tendering process. Six of the 50 packages were cancelled due to various reasons, including upgradation of roads to national highways. Now, 44 packages will be executed in Vidarbha covering road network of 2,456.50km. Of this, 1,198.83km is in six districts of Nagpur revenue division, and 1,257.67km in five districts of Amravati revenue division. The cost of works in Nagpur division will be Rs3,425 crore and Rs3,314 crore in Amravati division.
 
 Chief engineer Ulhas Debadwar told TOI the new model will help the government take up new road projects on a large scale. “The new model has also received a good response from the contractors, who were otherwise showing no interest in toll tax model. The government will pay 60% of total cost to contractors after completion of works. Remaining 40% will be paid in equal instalments over 10 years. Thus, the contractor will also have to maintain the road for 10 years. Therefore, there are no chances of the contractor compromising on quality,” he said.
 
 As per PWD, 90 of the 144 packages have received two or less bidders while 46 got response from three or more bidders across the state. Financial bids for 64 packages were opened and 53 submitted to the government, seeking approval to issue work order to contractors. The government has approved two packages of Nagpur for work orders. The packages that did not receive a response will be sent for re-tendering.
 
 PWD sources told TOI another 51 packages, of which 21 are in Vidarbha, have been planned under the model.
 
 Earlier, the PWD had launched a similar model where 40% was to be paid to contractors after completion of works and remaining 60% in equal instalments over 15 years. The formula did not work and got no response from contractors. Then, the PWD revised the formula and met with success.
 
 What Is Hybrid Annuity
 
 PWD used to execute road works in two systems. One was toll tax, where contractor executed works with his own money and recovered it from toll collection. Another was where government paid contractors entire cost after completion of works. Government has decided to do away with toll tax, and does not have enough money to execute works on a large scale itself. PWD has now adopted NHAI’s model, where 60% payment will be made to contractors immediately after completion of works, and remaining 40% in equal instalments over 10 years
 
 Advantages: Government will not have to pay contractors entire amount immediately on completion of works, and can take up more works at a time. Contractors will ensure quality in works as they have maintain roads for 10 years as against existing defect liability period of three years.
 
 
