They’re hot and they’re cool, they’re smart and they’re sexy, and they have been voted as Hyderabad’s Most Desirable Men in 2017. come on ladies, and gentlemen if you please, feast your eyes!

 
  
 
 2. 
 
 
 While he did make a mark as a youngster with a carefree attitude in the National Award-winning Pelli Choopulu, it was his role 
 of a rebellious medico with 
 anger-management issues in the cult-hit Arjun Reddy that catapulted Vijay to overnight stardom and made him a rage among youth.
 
 Is he single? He never said so. Is he dating? He doesn’t admit it!
 
 When ‘lover boy’ meets ‘rebel’ what you get is the smouldering hot Arjun Reddy, er, Vijay Deverakonda. His bad boy act was so convincing, and he looked so delish while at it, that it doesn’t look like Telugu women will want to consider the good boys ever again. Sorry, mama’s boys. 
 
  
 
 3. 
 
 
 His portrayal of Amarendra Baahubali didn’t just make the magnum opus a mammoth hit, but also helped expand Prabhas’ fan base from Tollywood to all parts of the country and beyond the borders. Why, he even has his wax statue at Madame Tussauds — the only South Indian star to have one!
 
  He’s been (linked) with the hottest women of T’wood, and recently there were 
 rumours that he’d tie the knot with Anushka Shetty as well. But TBH, it will be uncle Krishnam Raju who will call the final shot, and pick a suitable bride. Eligible girls, 
 apply pronto! 
 
 Tall, dark, handsome, he is our very own Greek God. He sends hearts aflutter whether he’s wielding a sword or wooing the ladies with a red rose!
 
  
 
 4. 
 
 
 The ‘Prince’ of Tollywood, Mahesh Babu won the first ever Hyderabad Times Most Desirable Man in 2012, and defended that title twice, topping the national list of Times of India’s Most Desirable Men’s list as well. Hits or duds, nothing can affect the popularity of this original Superstar of Telugu Cinema. 
 
  Married to actress Namrata Shirodkar for 13 years now, the unabashed family man is blessed with two kids, Gowtham and Sitara.
 
 If good looks could kill, everyone Mahesh smiled at would be dead. He is the perfect amalgamation of drop-dead good looks and star power.
 
  
 5. 
 
 
 Son of Tollywood legend Chiranjeevi, Charan aka Cherry 
 carved his niche as a star with his very second film Magadheera. And ever since, he’s been delivering BO hits like Yevadu, Nayak and Dhruva.... 
 
 Married to healthcare heiress, and apparently his 
 childhood sweetheart, Upasana Kamineni. 
 
 From building his bod to setting the dance floor on fire, to riding horses and owning a fleet of the hottest cars — Ram Charan makes all the right moves and lives life, star size!
 
  
 
 6. 
 
 
 He made a modest beginning with Gangotri in 2001, but after that Arjun aka Bunny just kept outdoing himself, both in the quirk department and in Box Office stakes. A Telugu star who can dance, draw crowds to the theatre and also make a fashion statement while at it — well, Telugu fans couldn’t have asked for more. 
 
 Once a playboy, but now happily married to Sneha Reddy. the much-in-love couple have two adorable kids, Ayaan and Arha.
 
 From dreadlocks and six-packs to buzz cuts and a wardrobe bordering on bizarre at times — only Bunny can have the guts to try ’em all, pull it off, and own his moniker Stylish Star 
 with such elan.
 
  
 
 7. 
  
 
  His role of the antagonist Bhallala Deva in Baahubali has created a permanent place for him in the annals of Indian cinema. Not one to rest on his laurels, the grandson of Daggubati Ramanaidu is still exploring new horizons by doing different kinds of films across various industries. 
 
  After a heartbreak since his split with Trisha, he’s said to be single. But with hotness like that, he’s forever ready to mingle. 
 
  Pedigree. Check. Strapping frame. Check. Lean-mean muscles. Check. Bank balance. Hell, yeah, check! What does this Daggubati scion, one of the most eligible Telugu bachelors around, not have?! 
 
  
 
 8. 
 
 
  Winner of Mr India 2015 title and the first ever Asian to be crowned Mr World in the 2016, Rohit Khandelwal has also been a TED speaker at TEDxUPES at University of Petroleum & Energy Studies, Dehradun.
 
 Single
 
 A Badichowdi boy who can give even the hottest Bollywood dudes a run for their money —can it get hotter than that? Er, yes! every time the hunk strips his shirt off to show off those washboard abs, things get hot. Seriously HOT!
 
  
 
 9. 
 
 
 As the claimant to his legendary grandfather NTR’s legacy, he has cemented his place in people’s hearts with smash hits like Aadi, Simhadri, Adhurs, Brindavanam, Nannaku Prematho and Janatha Garage. He 
 recently made a highly successful debut on television as well as host of the first season of Bigg Boss Telugu. 
 
 Married to Lakshmi Pranati in 2011, the couple has a son Abhay Ram.
 
 He walks likes a star, talks like a star, acts like a star... in short, he’s a born star! That enviable style of dialogue delivery, those effortless acting chops, and of late, an impeccably groomed South Indian good looks — NTR is a true crowd puller!
 
  
 
 10. 
 
 
 A decade ago, when RJ-turned-AD-turned actor Nani made his debut with Ashta Chamma, no one thought he’d become the star he is today. Currently riding the crest of a success wave with three back-to-back blockbusters in 2017, Nenu Local, Ninnu Kori and MCA, Nani’s time has come.
 
  Married to Anjana Yelavarthy, and dad to one-year old Arjun.
 
  Nani’s the kinda boy you want to take home to mum; the kinda boy you can’t say no to; the kinda boy-next-door who reminds you of your first crush, first kiss, first love... Well, you get the drift, right?
 
  
 
 
 
 
 14. 
 
 
  Winner of Indian Idol season 9 in 2017, Revanth is also the winner of Rock Star, Spicy Singer and Superstar of the South competitions. But that ain’t all. He already has over 200 songs from Telugu and Kannada films, including the popular Manohari from the hit film Baahubali: The Beginning, under his belt! Neat, eh?
 
  Single
 
 Spiked hair, rivetted leather jacket, desi swag — he’s the quintessential Telugu rockstar. He only has to break into one of his hit love songs from Baahubali or Arjun Reddy, and the ladies just go swooning. Lucky boy!
 
  
 
 15. 
 
 
  Siraj first made headlines when he was bought by the Sunrisers Hyderabad team at the 2017 IPL auction for a cool `2.6 crores. And yet again, in January 2018, he was picked up by Royal Challengers Bangalore. The Hyderabadi lad also made his T20 debut for India against New Zealand. Every time he steps on the pitch, we can’t stop whistling!
 
 Single
 
  Son of an auto driver and a housemaid, Siraj’s rags to riches story, which he crafted by sheer dint of his hard work, is what makes him so lovable. And then when he broke into tears as the National Anthem was played on his debut match, he won a billion hearts. And must say, we love his new sports star swag. You go, guy!
 
  
 
 23. 
 
 
 People got to witness a new side of the Tollywood actor during his stint in the first season of Bigg Boss Telugu house. And after 70 days, when he walked away from the house with the runner’s up trophy, Aadarsh was a household name in both the Telugu States. 
 
 Married to Gulnar Virk, the couple have a toddler Nirvaan, a mini celeb himself. 
 
 with his ripped bod and mean punches, he channels the baddie in him on screen. But off screen, his affable charm and hot dad-on-the-block swag, melts hearts. Bad boy gone good, you can’t not love Aadarsh, whether you’re into bad guys or the nice ones. 
 
  
 
 25. 
 
 
  The quintessential poster boy of Indian Badminton, Kidambi created history in 2017 by becoming the only Indian, and the fourth player ever, to win four Super Series titles in a calendar year. 
 
 Wedded to his game, badminton, he says.
 
 Those simple boy-next-door looks belie a strong passion and never-say-die-attitude, which he shows off, when on court. Watch him play, and he’ll get your heart racing. It’s a promise!
 
  
 
