COIMBATORE: After Chennai, the most number of applications for approval of real estate projects have been received from Coimbatore, said S  , secretary of projects,   (TNRERA), on Saturday.

 “So far the TNRERA has received 56 applications from Coimbatore, of which 43 had been approved,” Selvakumar said. He said this was because the city was the most urbanised area after Chennai. Selvakumar was speaking at an awareness programme for realtors on the   Act conducted in the city by the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India ( ).
 
 After Coimbatore, there were significant number of applications from Madurai, Trichy and  . “So far, there have been no applications from Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga,” said Selvakumar. He added that the TNRERA was taking all measures to create awareness about the act across the state. “We have written to all district collectors in the state, asking them to provide information about the act to the people. We are also planning to hold awareness programmes across the state,” he said.
 
 Speaking to realtors from the city, Selvakumar said there was a plan to link RERA approval and providing of completion certificate to realty projects in areas which come under directorate of town and country planning (DTCP). “If realtors don’t get RERA approval, the projects would not be given completion certificate, without which electricity, water supply and sewage connection wouldn’t be provided,” he said.
 
 Selvakumar said many of the complaints that the body had received were about the failure to complete the projects on the agreed date. 
 
 The realtors, on the other hand, raised the concern that even if they complete construction before the deadline, getting electricity, water and sewage connections were delayed due to bureaucratic procedures. They said there should be a provision to exempt realtors from penalties if the project was delayed due to getting power, water and sewage connections.
 
 Also realtors involved in projects like building retirement home said it would be helpful for them if there were separate considerations for them in the Tamil Nadu Real Estate (Regulation & Development) Rules, considering what they were doing was service.
 
 
