NEW DELHI: The Indian cricket board ( ) is set to honour   with the   for Women. Edulji, who is a part of the Supreme Court-appointed   ( ), will be receiving the award ahead of her teammates Shubhangi Kulkarni and Sudha Shah who were also shortlisted for the award on Friday evening.

 
 Former India opener late Pankaj Roy will also be awarded posthumously while Abbas Ali Baig will be given a special award.
 
 Edulji was part of the panel last year which picked Shantha Rangaswamy as the first woman cricketer to get the award last year. It is learnt that Edulji had recused herself from the panel this year since her name was in contention.
 
 "There's no doubt that Edulji has been the most popular woman cricketer in the bygone era. She deserves the award. Her being a part of CoA, which is taking all major calls in Indian cricket right now, she was not considered last year," a BCCI source close to the development told TOI.
 
 It is learnt that with the growing tension between the BCCI members and CoA, the decision to award Edulji was rushed. Sources said that there is an underlying apprehension that Edulji could miss out on her due once the BCCI elections happen and the regime takes over and that's why three people have been picked to accommodate Edulji.
 
 Edulji, Kulkarni and Shah were part of the playing XI that played the first ever Test match for India Women in 1976. All-rounders Kulkarni and Edulji have near-identical international records. Kulkarni 700 and 347 runs in Tests and ODIs respectively while Edulji 404 runs in Tests and 211 in ODIs. Edulji has 63 wickets in Tests to go with 46 in ODIs whereas Kulkarni has 60 and 38 wickets in Tests and ODIs. Shah has 601 runs in Tests and 293 in ODIs. Kulkarni, Edulji and Shah have played 19, 20 and 21 Tests respectively.
 
 "The records say she was at par with most other woman cricketers of her era. It's just that she has been around and stayed in touch with cricket that she is the most popular amongst. She could have waited but there is a sense of mistrust in the board," the source added.
 
