CHANDIGARH: With the setting aside of retired IAS officer Suresh Kumar’s appointment as Punjab chief principal secretary to the chief minister by the high court on Wednesday, the   government stands to lose its administrative fulcrum. It is also being seen as another setback for chief minister  , as it comes a day after power minister Rana   confirmed his resignation on moral grounds.

 “Files pertaining to new schemes, ambitious projects and even appointments and transfers were routed through him to the chief minister. This has been creating heartburn among a section of bureaucrats and the Congress leaders. At the same time, Kumar had the reputation of being an efficient and upright official,” said another official on condition of anonymity.
 
 While Kumar did not attend office on Wednesday and his staff said he was away till January 24, an uneasy calm prevailed in the secretariat. Despite having retired in 2016, Kumar was seen as the principal power centre not just in the bureaucracy but also in the government, to the chagrin of some Congress leaders, who would complain that bureaucracy had become stronger in the Congress government.
 
 Earlier, Kumar had offered to resign in August, 2017 when a court notice was sent to the Punjab government on a petition challenging his appointment filed in Punjab and Haryana High court. He did not attend office for some days until   made him change his mind. Where speculations were rife that Kumar may still be offered an advisory role, those close to him said he may not accept a new job profile.
 
 “It is up to the chief minister and the cabinet to decide on the successor and whether this post will continue. These things will be clear once the inaccuracy in the present appointment is established from the court order. As such, he was chief principal secretary to the CM and the court order will not result in many major changes in the bureaucratic set up,” said a senior officer on condition of anonymity.
 
 The development is also being closely watched if it would have a bearing on others appointed by the Congress government. “At the same time, the plans to elevate some others with plum postings would be put in cold storage,” said a Congress leader.
 
 Known as a close confidant of Amarinder, the 1983-batch IAS officer was principal secretary for three and a half years during Amarinder’s previous tenure as the CM from 2002 to 2007. Kumar was appointed to the rank of cabinet secretary of government of India and his appointment was approved by the council of ministers in the first meeting held on March 18.
 
 “Kumar is believed to be responsible for chalking out the roadmap for most of the schemes rolled out by the Punjab government after taking over. The bureaucrat has been a close confidant of Amarinder and advising him on how to best implement the party manifesto,” said another official.
 
 A post graduate in commerce from  , Kumar started his career as sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) in   and retired as additional chief secretary (development) in April 2016.
 
 
