PUNE: The prosecution on Saturday told the special court that builder D S Kulkarni and his wife,  , had duped thousands of investors in a well-planned conspiracy by floating investment firms on a partnership basis without seeking permission of the Reserve Bank of India.

 Special public prosecutor   made the statement in his opening argument in the court of special judge U T   for seeking police custody   of the Kulkarni couple for 10 days. He said Kulkarni floated six investment firms to woo investors and he sought time to find out at whose instances the firms were opened, who were the partners and what role the accountant played in them.
 
  
  
 
 He submitted the custodial interrogation of Kulkarni was essential because he had undertaken 14 projects in Pune district and Mumbai. Police would need time to find out the cost of individual projects and how much the builder had spent on them.
 
 Chavan said searches were conducted at Kulkarni’s office and residence but documents pertaining to the alleged cheating case, like deposit register, cashbook, daily tally sheet and other official registers, were not found. So, he sought time to recover them.
 
 The prosecution said Kulkarni purchased real estate in the name of his relatives. Chavan pleaded to the court to give time to the police to identify them, too.
 
 Chavan told the court, “Hemanti’s bank account has three customer information file (CIF) numbers instead of one. The bank officials will be questioned on why three CIF numbers were issued to a single person. Investigations revealed that Kulkarni’s investment firms were not registered under the Company Act and the police need time to identity more firms floated by him.”
 
 According to Chavan, the forensic audit in its interim report said the investment firms had collected Rs1,153 crore in the form of fixed deposits and unsecured loans. Investigations also revealed that Kulkarni had transferred Rs438.22 crore of investors’ money in his personal account and Rs34.88 crore in the account of his son, Shirish Kulkarni, also a suspect in the case.
 
 Defence lawyers Shrikant Shivade, Girish Kulkarni and Sushilkumar Pise pleaded to remand Kulkarni couple to police custody for a week. They submitted Kulkarni’s assets were three times more than the liabilities.
 
 Judge Utpat, after hearing both the sides, sent the couple in police custody remand till February 23.
 
 The court allowed the two applications filed by the defence lawyers to meet their clients between 7pm and 7.30pm, and to conduct their medical examination.
 
 
