NEW DELHI: Setbacks to   in Lok Sabha and state   have served to boost Congress’s morale with the party projecting the results as a mandate against the Modi government at the four-year mark and as evidence of a decline that will deepen in the run-up to the LS elections next year.

 
 “The writing on the wall is clear. BJP’s exit and success of   and its allies are guaranteed,” Pramod Tiwari said, outlining the party’s bid to present opposition victories, as well as recent developments like the Congress-JD(S) coalition in Karnataka, as winning narratives. The accent was clearly on a united opposition humbling BJP.
 
 Tiwari accused the Modi government of ignoring the poor and the farmers and said the results pointed to an emerging pattern that would undercut BJP’s prospects. The current round of bypolls did not have much for Congress apart from wins in one assembly seat each in Karnataka, Punjab and Maharashtra, but the fillip to opposition ranks and BJP’s problems in UP gave it talking points.
 
 “The outcome of the bypolls is the people’s mandate against the four years of the Modi government. It is the beginning of the end of the BJP empire based on lies, cheating and betrayal,” Tiwari said.
 
 Though the success of opposition candidates, who were-elected in 10 of 11 assembly bypolls, is good tidings for non-NDA parties, Congress has to contend with BJP emerging second, as it did in the panchayat polls, in the Maheshtala assembly byelection in Bengal. The CPM candidate, backed by Congress, came third.
 
 With the opposition stressing on anti-BJP mobilisation, Congress spokesman Randeep Surjewala termed the results a fading of Modi magic and people’s reply to “politics of lies and hate”. The party saw the message of various bypolls as pointing to weakening of BJP ahead of polls in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan later this year. 
 
 The win record of the SP-BSP alliance can prompt Congress to seek BSP chief   as an ally in the next round of state polls, looking to take on entrenched BJP governments in MP and Chhattisgarh. There could be room for an understanding in Rajasthan as well where BJP and Congress have alternated in office.
 
 Curiously, Mayawati did not react, in what experts said could be a tactic to drive a hard bargain on seat-sharing with SP in UP and Congress in MP. 
 
 
