Imagine a top Indian professional emigrating to America at the age of 50 and then making his mark in the new country.

 Dr   is one such rare Indian American.
 
 Son of Dr  , who was one of the founders of the   in Chandigarh, Dr Inder   could have become director of the PGI but a strange twist of circumstances transported him to America.
 
 “I went to Oxford as a   scholar in 1967. After earning my PhD. in cardiovascular physiology, I returned in 1976 to join the PGI as a cardiologist. I was fortunate that my research in congestive heart failure and high-altitude medicine and biology was recognized worldwide,’’ says Dr. Anand.
 
 This recognition also got him offers from many famous places in the US.
 
 “As I was very senior and doing very well at the PGI, the thought of leaving the institute never crossed my mind. I was satisfied with the opportunities to present my work at international meetings and keep up to date with the ongoing research.’’ But then he got a letter from the University of Minnesota and  , asking him whether he could set up their new department of heart failure research. “They said they would accept all my terms and arrange for my green card etc.,’’ he adds.
 
 Dr Anand says he was very ambivalent about the offer.
 
 “But then one day I got a call from the US embassy, telling me that my emigration visa papers have arrived from the US. I was a little surprised. It was obvious those in charge were very serious. After some serious discussions with the family, I went to my director and got two years’ leave from the PGI. I landed here on May 9, 1991,’’ says Dr Anand.
 
 “They rolled out the redcarpet me and did everything possible to accommodate me. Because of the respect and the professional satisfaction that I got here, it became increasingly difficult to return to India after two years, making me resign my job at the PGI in spite of the fact they were eager for me to come back. My father of course was most upset about my decision,’’ he says.
 
 The first Sikh to join the University of Minnesota faculty, he says he did not encounter any discrimination. “When we bought our home, we were greeted by our neighbors with a banner: Welcome to your new home.’’ Calling it a dream job, he says, “What I accomplished in terms of research work in my field here would not have been possible in India. But I also continued my work in India, particularly with the Indian army on high altitude research, and went there very often.’’ In fact, he didn’t take US citizenship till he got a letter from the authorities that his contract with the   won’t be renewed if he didn’t get the US citizenship. “So I reluctantly got the American citizenship in 1999,’’ he laughs.
 
