LUDHIANA: The Government Railway Police (GRP) on Wednesday claimed to have busted a gang of burglars with the arrest of four of its members during a late evening hours inspection on platform 1 of the Ludhiana railway station. Later, police officials said all the four arrested accused were members of a single gang led by Karamjeet Singh, who had indulged in several thefts and robberies in the recent past on different platforms of the railway station. Cops had recovered 12 costly cellphones from their possession and two sharped-edged knives during the initial stage of investigation.

 Addressing a media gathering, GRP Ludhiana in-charge Inderjit Singh said: “Following a tip-off from railway sources, a police party under the guidance of   carried out intensive checks on various platforms of the city station late on Tuesday evening, traced all the four accused, and made an arrest on the spot while they were planning to conduct other major thefts in trains passing through the station.”
 
 The arrested accused were identified as Karamjeet Singh of Ludhiana, Amritpal Singh of Moga district, Ankush of Phagwara, and   of Yamunanagar. Inderjit added: “In the initial stage of investigation, we found out that all the four arrested accused had indulged in several loot and burglary cases. Police had traced two cases registered in the name of Karamjeet Singh, who was leading the gang, and two other cases were registered in the name of Varinderpal Singh, who is also a member of the arrested gang.”
 
 All of them were hatching another conspiracy when the police arrested them. They mostly attacked people in the late night hours near the station, and left after stealing costly items. “We will bring them to court and ask for a few days judicial custody for further investigation in the matter,” said Inderjeet. A case under sections 401 (punishment for belonging to gang of thieves), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property), and 25/3/18 of the Arms Act of IPC has been registered against all the accused.”
 
 
