NEW DELHI: The governments of India and France signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on mutual recognition of academic qualifications on Saturday. For India, this is the first government level arrangement to recognize each other’s academic qualifications. More than 5,000 Indian students are studying in France and about 1,500 French students in India. 

 On the occasion, minister of human resource development,  , said that a “Study in India” initiative would be launched to attract more students from other countries to pursue courses in Indian institutions. Fifteen other MoUs between various institutions of India and France in the areas of higher education, research, innovation, faculty exchange, scientific cooperation were also signed.
 
 Underlining the strong and long-standing relationship between France and India, Javadekar said, “It is historic. For the first time a government to government MoU has been signed to mutually recognize academic qualifications. There used to be only bilateral arrangements between institutions to institutions”. 
 
 Speaking at the Knowledge Summit at   here in the presence of French minister of higher education, research and innovation Frederique Vidal, Javadekar said, “I hope more countries, like France, will come forward for mutual recognition of academic qualifications so that the mobility of students and professionals improves,” Javadekar added.
 
 The first high-level India-France Knowledge Summit, 2018 was jointly organised by   in India, along with ministry of higher education, research and innovation (MESRI), France and India’s HRD ministry.
 
 Vidal said that the knowledge summit is an essential step towards the goal set by the French government to attract 10,000 students by 2020. Last year, over 5,000 Indian students chose France as a study destination, showing a 60% increase from the previous year. The summit explores seven priority sectors for collaboration: space and aeronautics, mathematics and information technology, agronomy and food processing, eco-energy, natural resources, architecture and urban planning and urban mobility.
 
 
