Coimbatore: With apparel from Bangladesh made from fabric sourced out of China flooding the Indian market, the textile industry wants the union commerce ministry to tweak SAFTA’s (South Asia Free Trade Area) rules of origin to make it mandatory for the neighbour to use yarn and fabric produced in India in its garments to claim duty and quota-free exports. Even as textile exports from India continue to decline, there has been a continuous rise in imports of textile products, especially after the implementation of GST. India’s imports of garments from Bangladesh increased 66% year-on-year (y-o-y) to $111.3 million during July-December 2017, according to data released by Export Promotion Bureau of Bangladesh. While knitted apparel imports from Bangladesh soared 77% y-o-y to $36.5 million between July and December 2017, woven apparel imports grew 62% y-o-y to $74.8 million.  “Tweaking SAFTA rules of origin to make the use of yarn and fabrics of Indian origin mandatory for allowing duty-free, quota-free market access will prevent China from taking undue advantage of a facility that is meant for poor LDCs (least developed countries),” said Prabhu Dhamodharan, convenor, Indian Texpreneurs’ Federation (ITF). “At the same time, it will give a boost to India’s export of yarn and fabrics to Bangladesh and other LDCs, which at present are being supplied by China,” he said.  “India will not be the first country to impose such sourcing restrictions for allowing duty-free import of apparel. The US has imposed sourcing restriction under NAFTA (North American Free Trade Agreement) for accepting duty-free import of garments from Mexico and other NAFTA members,” Dhamodharan pointed out. India allowed duty free import of readymade garments from Bangladesh under SAFTA in 2006. Earlier, this facility was limited to 8 million pieces per annum. This restriction was removed in 2010. Imports from Bangladesh has been growing at a steady pace ever since and gained momentum in mid-2017.  In the pre-GST era, import of garments from Bangladesh was attracting Rs 77 per piece (where MRP is Rs 999 per piece) in duties and Rs 116/pc (where MRP is Rs 1,500/pc) in the shape of CVD (countervailing duty) plus education cess and thereon. However, in the post-GST scenario, there is no cost for import of garments from Bangladesh.  “Bangladesh imports Chinese fabric, converts them into garments using its cheap labour and exports them to India without paying any duties,” ITF stated. Since import of ‘Made in China’ fabrics is meant for exports Bangladesh doesn’t impose import duties, it said.  “Thus, this unilateral duty free market access given to Bangladesh is actually facilitating backdoor entry of Chinese textiles into India,” Dhamodharan said in his representation to union commerce minister Suresh Prabhu. Incidentally, India has not imposed any sourcing restrictions on LDCs. India has now extended the duty-free, quota-free facility to all 49 LDCs on a non-reciprocal basis without any sourcing restrictions. “So we will have more Bangladesh-type situations in the future,” ITF cautioned. Interestingly, Bangladesh imposes high import duties — sometimes as high as 100%-150% — that includes basic customs duty, regulatory duty, supplementary duty, VAT and advanced VAT on textiles.