CHENNAI: At the time of Serbian Zoran Visic’s appointment as coach of the Indian women’s basketball team in June 2017, it might have seemed an unusual choice. The 61-year-old, after all, was completely new to these surroundings and would have needed some time to deliver. However, as Visic himself explains, there is a strong and quirky connection that the man from Serbia feels with India.

 
 “Interestingly, in Belgrade where I live, I stay on   Road which is right between Nehru Road (Nehruova Road) and Mahatma Gandhi Road (Gandijeva Road). As you see, there is a strong history of friendship between India and Serbia (Yugoslavia before the split) which goes a long way back. So whenever something comes up from India, we will never say no,” said Visic, who is in the city watching the Senior National Basketball Championship.
 
 The bonhomie is all fine, but Visic knows that he will eventually be judged by results. In April, India will be taking part in the   at Gold Coast in Australia. This will be a return to the Commonwealth Games for basketball after 2006, when the Indian women finished a lowly sixth. This time around, they will have to at least show an improvement from that performance.
 
 “I don’t want to promise anything. I can only promise hard work. The girls know my way of working now. I’m an optimist. The women played really well during the recent Asia Cup. We should continue on a similar path. They have a lot of potential and will improve for sure. We need to improve tactically and individually. We have enough time to work on these things. There will be a camp in Bengaluru from February as things stand now,” he mentioned.
 
 While Serbia won the silver medal in basketball at the Rio Olympics and has a rich tradition in the sport, it is Novak Djokovic’s exploits in tennis that have put the country on the sporting map. Ask him about Djokovic and there is instant pride at the latter’s achievements.
 
 “Novak is president in Serbia,” he chuckled. “He is, of course, the most popular sportsman from the country. Interestingly, the place where I hold a coaching camp in summer is the same court where Djokovic started playing tennis at the age of six.”
 
