PATNA: The human chain formed on Tuesday by Union minister Upendra Kushwaha-led Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) and joined by RJD functionaries triggered speculations of political realignments in the state. 

 RLSP, along with JD(U) led by CM  , LJP of Ram Vilas Paswan and HAM-S led by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, is a   ally in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). RJD senior functionaries Shivanand Tiwary and Ram Chandra Purbey, along with their many party workers, joined hands with Kushwaha on the Miller School ground in Patna while none of the Bihar   constituents — BJP, JD(U), LJP and HAM-S — participated in the human chain organized by the Union minister of state for HRD to spread awareness about the need for educational reforms and importance of various provisions of Right to Education Act.
 
 It was only on Monday that RJD vice-president   said Kushwaha and Manjhi were in talks with his party and could also join hands soon. However, Manjhi and Kushwaha had refuted the Singh’s claim. Incidentally, Kushwaha and CM Nitish have been at loggerheads since 2013 when RLSP was formed after JD(U) had terminated his Rajya Sabha membership for alleged anti-party activities. Also, his supporters in Koeri caste which he belongs to want to fulfil their political aspirations through Kushwaha. 
 
 On record, Kushwaha scoffed at speculations regarding any political realignment. The Union minister said he had invited all the political parties to support and join the RLSP human chain and “senior leaders of some” NDA constituents had also supported his cause. “The senior leaders of some political parties may have had other engagements. But they had supported our cause and without their ground-level workers, the human chain would not have been a grand success. Sincere thanks to Tiwaryji and Purbeyji for joining the human chain.”
 
 RJD’s Tiwary also said “the stage has not yet reached for any such political realignment. At present, it is media speculation”.
 
 Asked for comments, state JD(U) spokesman Ajay Alok said, “Wolf (RJD) and deer (Kushwaha) cannot sit together. We did not join Kushwaha-sponsored human chain due to the presence of RJD as under their (read Lalu Prasad and  ) rule, education was systematically destroyed in the state.”
 
 Incidentally, earlier in the day, Alok had used the metaphor of ‘bakri (she-goat)’ and ‘kasai (butcher)’ for RLSP and RJD, respectively, inviting sharp reaction from RLSP functionary   who said JD(U) should remain within its “aukaat (limits)”. 
 
 Tiwary also shot back at JD(U), “If we were bad, we were defeated in the people’s court in 2005. What has the Nitish government done in the last 12 years to improve education — nothing good?”
 
 
