NEW DELHI: The rising number of mosquito-borne cases early in the season has prompted the   to prepone its modified vector-borne disease programme by almost two months. 

 “Several measures are being taken to avoid a scenario in which the dengue-chikungunya incidence turns into a crisis. We started with a workshop where experts from WHO, neighbouring states, the Centre and the health ministry discussed key steps to tackle the menace,” mayor   said on Wednesday.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The civic body has decided to implement several precautionary measures this year. “Unlike previous years, the   tackling programme will kick in in May itself. We have already sent a demand of 900 detection kits — instead of earlier 600 — from manufacturer NIV Pune,” said an official. Each kit can test 98 cases.
 
 The corporation has also decided to ask the students from all corporation, government and private schools to assess their homes through homework cards. “From April, we will distribute dengue homework cards to over five lakh students. The cards are meant to gather information related to precautionary measures taken to stop mosquito breeding. It will be treated as primary information,” an official said. 
 
 The civic body is working with experts from AIIMS to ascertain which strain of virus would be prevalent this year. “Although there is no medicine for dengue, this information will help us in scaling up and modifying our plan,” a public health official said. 
 
 The mayor also announced that indoor residual spraying would be carried out in two rounds — May-June and July-August. Alpha cyper methene will be sprayed, which can eliminate breeding of mosquitoes continuously. The  , instead of being sporadic, will focus on JJ and rehabilitation colonies. Two additional mobile dispensaries will also be deployed in these areas. 
 
 The mayor added that SDMC would test blood with the help of ELISA kit at a rate cheaper than that at government hospitals. “The government charges Rs 600 while we will take Rs 299 for dengue and Rs 399 for   tests.” 
 
 Two new insecticides for spray medicines will also be used before the dengue season.
 
 
