BENGALURU: A 28-year-old employee of an e-commerce firm was arrested by Bengaluru Rural district police on Thursday for allegedly murdering his nine-year-old   after attempting to   his wife and the boy’s mother. The boy witnessed his stepfather bashing his mother’s head with a slab of stone and that had prompted the man to kill him.

  D, a resident of Attivatta village near Hoskote, had attempted to kill Jyothi, his wife, because he had wanted to marry again, revealed Bheemashankar S Guled, superintendent of police (Bengaluru Rural). Jyothi survived the attack, but doctors at Victoria Hospital where she is being treated told police she is critical.
 
 Thirumalashettahalli police took a week to piece together the gruesome crime since Jyothi was unaware that it was Ramamurthy who had attempted to murder her. Based on Ramamurthy’s confession, police recovered the highly decomposed body of Gautam K, a Class III student in a private school and resident of Avalahalli village near Hoskote, on Thursday and Ramamurthy was remanded in judicial custody on Friday.
 
 Ramamurthy told police that he fell in love with Jyothi five years ago when the duo was working together in the e-commerce firm in Hoskote. Jyothi is from Raichur and had settled in Hoskote with her first husband, Kiran, and Gautam. About a year after the family moved to Hoskote, Jyothi left Kiran and married Ramamurthy. She moved into his house in Avalahalli about 5km from Hoskote.
 
 Unaware that he was already married, Ramamurthy’s parents settled on a bride for their son and fixed the wedding for April 28 (Saturday). Police say Ramamurthy discussed the wedding with Jyothi and she initially agreed that he should go ahead and fulfil the wishes of his parents. But she later changed her mind. 
 
 Vexed, Ramamurthy hatched a plan to kill her. Police say he proposed a family visit to Rameshwara Temple on the outskirts of Vagata village about 10km away from Hoskote on April 20. The couple and Gautam reached the temple at about 5am and after spending a little time together, police say Ramamurthy told Jyothi and Gautam to get some sleep while he would fetch breakfast from the village.
 
 He rode off on his bike, but parked some distance away and returned on foot. His wife and stepson appeared to be napping and Ramamurthy took a slab of stone lying nearby and struck Jyothi’s head.
 
 Gautam, however, witnessed Ramamurthy’s act and terrified, attempted to get away. Ramamurthy chased the boy for a few hundred metres, caught up with him and killed him by smashing his head with the same slab of stone. He later hid the boy’s body in a bush and returned to the temple. Jyothi lay unconscious and thinking her dead, Ramamurthy left.
 
 Jyothi regained consciousness a little later and shouted for help. Locals rushed her to a private hospital in Hoskote and informed the police. Unaware that it was Ramamurthy who had tried to kill her, Jyothi told Thirumalashettahalli police that she suspected Kiran, her first husband, to be behind the attack. She also requested police to trace Ramamurthy and her son.
 
 Police questioned Kiran, but eventually ruled him out as a suspect. Their efforts to trace Ramamurthy finally bore fruit when they tracked him down on Thursday (April 26) through his mobile phone. He had remained in Hoskote, but had stayed away from his home. Under questioning, Ramamurthy confessed to killing Gautam and attempting to kill Jyothi.
 
