AHMEDABAD: In the recently concluded national committee meeting to commemorate the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi in Delhi, Gandhian institutions from the city have suggested novel programmes for spreading Gandhian thought and ways to introduce Gandhiji’s philosophy to mainstream school education during Bapu’s birth anniversary in 2019.

 The national committee dealing with the celebrations is headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. On Wednesday, the national committee had resolved to form an executive council that will supervise the implementation of the commemoration programmes. Other members of the national committee include L K Advani and representatives from across the political spectrum. Gandhians, thinkers, and eminent persons from diverse fields were also present during the committee meeting at Rashtrapati Bhavan in Delhi..
 
  government officials, who were present at the meeting along with Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani, said that   suggested that it revive the Sabarmati fellowship programme and scale up intake of aspirants. The ashram also volunteered to prepare modules for IAS training institutes and state level   (ARTD).
 
 “The Sabarmati Ashram volunteered to act as a nodal agency to strengthen Gandhian studies in UGC funded universities and colleges or wherever there exists Gandhi study centres. The Ashram also volunteered to prepare 150 youths belonging to various countries as ‘Gandhian Doots’ or ambassadors,” said a state government official. “Among the most important recommendations the ashram made was introducing non-violence to school curriculum,” he added. 
 
 Gujarat Vidyapith suggested that it will preserve and digitise the original collected works of Mahatma Gandhi in Hindi, just as the institution had completed the English-CWMG’s K Swaminathan edition led by archivist Dina Patel. On the other hand Navajivan has committed to completing the remaining parts of the collected volumes in Gujarati (Akshardeh).
 
 Gujarat plans to turn the commemoration of Gandhiji’s birth anniversary into a significant tourism event. The Union government has allocated Rs 150 crore for the preparatory work while the state government has earmarked Rs 25 crore for redevelopment of Sabarmati Ashram.
 
 
