PUDUCHERRY: The centralised admission committee will hold   counselling on May 15 and 16 to fill up the vacant postgraduate medical   after the second round of counselling in the three   medical colleges and hospitals in the Union territory of Puducherry. The committee will hold counselling to fill up government seats on May 15 and management seats on May 16.

 Forty-six government seats and 14 management seats were filled up after two rounds of counselling. Thirty-eight government seats and 67 management seats fell vacant in the three colleges.
 
 The committee will hold the ‘second extended phase counselling’ before the mop-up counselling for all India   seats surrendered in government   college at 9.30am on May 15. All   from the Union territory of Puducherry can participate in the counselling. Even the candidates, who have joined any college after the second round, can participate in the counselling.
 
 The committee will hold mop-up counselling for government quota seats at 10am and for reserved candidates under government quota at 11am on May 15 followed by management quota seats at 3pm on the same day. It will fill up the management seats at Sri Manakula Vinayagar medical college on all India basis. 
 
 The committee said the Madras high court had issued a stay on a government order to fill up the minority quota seats from the Puducherry minority candidates, failing which – from the Puducherry candidates and after that on all India basis. If the stay is vacated, the seats will be filled up as per the government order, otherwise the committee will fill up the seats on all India basis.
 
 The committee said the candidates must pay full fees at the time of allotment declaring that the seat, otherwise, will not be allotted. Fees can be transferred in advance by RTGS (refer Centac website home page) or in the form of demand drafts in favour of ‘Centac   medical’. The committee will refund the fees if the seats are not allotted. 
 
 The committee directed the students to produce admit card issued by the National board of examination (NBE), result/rank letter issued by the NBE, identity proofs (PAN card, driving licence, voter ID, passport or Aadhaar card) and documents for reservation, if claimed, among others, during counselling.
 
 The committee has updated the list of candidates, who have joined after the second round of counselling. It published the updated seat matrix. It directed the private colleges to set up help desks to assist the students seeking admission.
 
 
