Ludhiana: Hours before Ludhiana civic body polls, the commissioner of police suspended the Salem Tabri police station SHO inspector Vijay Kumar for being unfair while performing his election duty.

 The suspension orders were issued on Friday midnight. However, the MLA from north constituency Rakesh Panday raised question over the suspension and claimed the top cop has done injustice with the SHO.
 
 According to the police, the inspector has been suspended following the report of deputy commissioner of police (investigation) Gaganajit Singh, who has stated in a report that the official was ‘not being fair’ while performing his election duty.
 
 Taking quick action, the chief cop suspended the SHO with immediate effect on Friday midnight. CP RN Dhoke said, “The police have received complaints against the SHO that he was not being neutral towards all candidates contesting from his area and was favouring one candidate. The DCP Gaganajit was asked for an inquiry in this matter and on his report, the SHO has been suspended.”
 
 Dhoke added, “It is the job of the police to be fair especially while performing his duty during the elections and maintain law and order.”
 
 However, the suspension of the inspector has not gone well with the sitting MLA of north constituency Rakesh Panday. MLA Panday said, “Two suspicious cars with registration numbers of Sangrur were roaming around my office since Friday morning. I found it suspicious and moreover with the poll day ahead, I was concerned. I called the SHO Vijay Kumar to check the matter.”
 
 Further, he alleged DCP Gaganajit Singh, ADCP-I Gurpeet Singh Sikand, ACP- North Lakhvir Singh Tiwana and SHO Vijay Kumar reached there and confiscated one car.
 
 According to sources, the car occupants were carrying weapons who managed to flee. However, they left one car on the spot. The police seized the car and kept it at Salem Tabri police station. A few hours later, the SHO was suspended and the car was released.
 
 MLA Panday said, “The cops took away the car. As per the information, those car occupants came from Sangrur to support some candidate in the area. The police took action after receiving my call. Later, they might have come under some sort of pressure.”
 
 He added, “I have already taken up the matter with the senior police officials in Chandigarh and would also meet chief minister Amarinder Singh to discuss the matter.”
 
 When CP Dhoke was asked about the allegations, he said, “This is a separate case and I don’t have to explain it to any political leader about it. The SHO has been suspended following the inquiry report of complaints.”
 
 
