BENGALURU: The first leg of   president   Gandhi’s Janaashirvad Yatra, which ended on Tuesday, succeeded to a large extent in galvanising the party cadre to take on the well-oiled election machinery of the BJP in the forthcoming assembly elections.

 Rahul's visit evoked a good response, with his rallies and roadshows seeing huge attendances. Poll pundits say this is no surprise since the party is in power and the Yatra was held in the backward   region which has a high presence of SC, ST and   population. It is this votebank which chief minister Siddaramaiah has nurtured, "We wanted to begin the Yatra on a good note and what better place to do it than Hyderabad-Karnatak,” said a Congress leader. “This region has the highest number of beneficiaries of the Siddaramaiah government's Bhagyas.”
 
 
 Rahul appeared happy with the response as he mingled with people, often getting down from his customized bus to greet and interact with people.
 
 The party seems believe that his visits to places of religious worships, which were criticized by the BJP, will pay some dividends in the election.
 
 The Gandhi family scion also set the tone of his party's campaign for the election by highlighting  's purported failure to keep poll promises, issues of unemployment, distress in the farm sector and corruption charges against BJP's chief ministerial candidate B S   and other leaders. He never failed to mention these issues in his dozen or so speeches.
 
 The takeaways from Rahul's tour are that it put a stamp of approval for Siddaramaiah's leadership besides setting at rest the murmurs from some in the party on the chief minister’s leadership. Rahul also praised Siddaramaiah in every speech for fulfilling what was promised during the 2013 elections and for running a clean government. He even asked Modi to emulate Siddaramaiah’s programmes.
 
 With elections two months away, and Modi hitting the campaign in the state next week, the ruling party has a big challenge ahead to sustain the tempo created by Rahul’s visit.
 
