NEW DELHI: The  , to be presented by   on Thursday, is set to see a   under the head of “green budget” to combat   With a dedicated budgetary allocation, Delhiities can hope for measures that will deliver long-term impact, sustainability and an imminent shift to clean energy alternatives. 

 According to sources, the shift to “green alternatives” is proposed to be backed by “incentives”. 
 
  
 Through this action plan, the government was aiming for a “visible impact” over the next two years, sources said. The exercise is learnt to have brought together five departments — environment, transport, industries, energy and PWD — for ideating and planning. Many of the nearly 20 proposals discussed are likely to find space in the budget. The overall budget outlay is expected to be much higher than last year and the   components are likely to get adequate financial support. 
 
  
 The city can expect focus on introduction of electric buses by early next year. A commitment towards bringing a citywide electric vehicle policy is likely to be firmed up later this year. The Arvind Kejriwal government was strongly of the view that there should be focus on electricity driven public transport, sources said. The Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System is working on the subject and a team has already visited China, which is leading the way on the use of electric buses. 
 
 The focus, sources said, was on looking at beyond quick-fix solutions. “Given Delhi’s struggle with growing pollution, the government is looking at visible impacts and each proposal comes with a timeframe, estimation of the tangible impact, costs involved and difficulties expected during implementation,” a source said. For instance, one of the five departments which are part of the exercise is industries. Industrial units in Delhi still use prohibited fuels, such as furnace oil. The government now wants to explore a shift to piped natural gas.
 
 The budget may also incentivise the shift to cleaner mode of energy for such establishments. Also, PWD’s ambitious plan to fight dust through end-to-end landscaping along all roads is being pitched as a green solution. Every landscaping component, including the street furniture, plants and trees, will be chosen on the basis of their ability to combat pollution. The green budget is expected to focus primarily on air pollution and introducing measures that can help reduce carbon emissions. 
 
 With alarmingly high pollution levels in the capital raising serious health concerns, the Aam Aadmi Party government earlier this year decided to come up with a multi-department action plan. “Scientific studies on the effects of air pollution on children in Delhi conclude with certainty that, for many, their health will be compromised for the rest of their lives,” it was stated in a note from the deputy CM Manish Sisodia’s office to ministers and department heads earlier this year when it was decided to introduce the “green budget” component.
 
 
