NOIDA: The residents’ welfare association of Noida’s   has written to Noida Authority CEO Alok Tandon on the deteriorating condition of the children’s park in E block, accusing the horticulture department of a casual approach.

 The   said that the Noida Authority should ensure that the plants in the garden are properly watered during the summer months and also demanded that gardeners be employed cut the grass and shrubs.
 
 The members also sought full-time staff be recruited for collecting garbage from the park and clean toilets.
 
 According to Sanjeev Kumar, the RWA general secretary, the main problem of the 3.55-hectare children’s park was the lack of the required number of staff.
 
 “The lack of maintenance can be seen across the park. For example, despite designated sanitary staff and gardeners employed for the park, they are rarely seen there. As a result, no new saplings have been planted, there are no seasonal flowers nor is there a proper mechanism to water the plants. Apart from these, dry leaves, garbage (at various places, including the entrance and the walking tracks) and waste can be seen across the park. This becomes a hindrance for the children,” said Kumar, who has written to CEO Tandon.
 
 Kumar has urged Tandon for dedicated gardeners and cleaning staff on a regular basis to keep the park clean and remove all garbage.
 
 The sector RWA also accused the horticulture department of a casual approach. “Now that the summer has begun, there’s a need for proper watering of the plants and the grass, which are drying,” said Anil Prakash Ranotra, the RWA president of sector 51.
 
 Kumar further said that while there are two sets of toilets for ladies and gents separately, none of them are in working condition. “The reasons are that one set of toilets was renovated by a contractor within this financial year. He carried out civil and sanitary work in this toilet and also placed the water tank on the roof, but there is no water supply in these toilets. As such, these toilets are not in working condition. The contractor did not check if the toilets were functioning, but still they were given payments without carrying out any checking,” Kumar alleged.
 
 
