CHENNAI: A simmering disquiet is brewing in the AIADMK, causing unease totheEPS-OPS duo’s leadership. The unease seems to be more evident in the erstwhile O Panneerselvam camp many of whose leaders feel dumped by their leader after the merger of the two factions last year. Rajya Sabha member V Maithreyan had tweeted his displeasure in the last few weeks, but not all are vocal about it in the open.

  
  
 
 It reached a flashpoint at former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s 70th birthday celebrations at the party headquarters recently, when former minister Raja   ‘told’ the EPSOPS duo that he had enough resources and support to field 120 candidates in the next assembly election to teach the leadership a lesson. Kannappan, like a few other senior leaders in the   camp, was aggrieved that he was made to sit in front of the dais, when relatively junior and less influential leaders occupied the podium. The outburst did not go unnoticed. After launching the party organ and unveiling Jayalalithaa’s statue, chief minister   walked up to the leaders in the OPS camp – V Maithreyan, Natham R Viswanathan, K C Palaniswamy, Manoj Pandian and Raja Kannappan – and invited them to the newspaper office. Maithreyan and Kannappan didn’t oblige.
 
 These leaders have been putting pressure on both OPS and EPS to fill up slots in the party standing committee as resolved by the last general council. “Leaders are equally unhappy over the sudden rise of local administration minister S P Velumani as a new power centre. From Sasikala and co., the control has gone to Velumani and co. The party organ is now controlled by his confidant  . Next, the party channel also will go to Velumani,” said a senior leader. Sensing the mood within his camp, OPS has been trying hard to assuage the feelings of sidelined leaders.
 
 There is resentment in the EPS camp also over the importance being accorded to Velumani, both within the government and the party. “Velumani raked up an unwanted controversy recently by saying Andipatti MLA Thanga Tamil Selvan was being considered for a cabinet berth. Only in reaction to that did OPS say that he had agreed to join the ministry at thebehestof the PM,” said a senior minister.
 
 Many are waiting for the Madras high court judgment on the disqualification of the 18 rebel MLAs. “There could be a major uprising if the verdict goes in favour of the rebel MLAs,” said the minister.
 
