Sprightly as she is, for a 72-year-old, Geeta   relishes a challenge.

 In 2011, the resident of Dr   in Adyar set off on what many thought was an improbable task – try and force   into laying a footpath which also conformed to Indian Roads Congress standards in her locality. What followed was a story of relentlessness, of steely grit and conviction.
 
 “Even if one person walks on the road, there ought to be a proper footpath,” says Geeta, standing on the 700m long uninterrupted model footpath by the side of her house.
 
 When she moved into her home in 1998, Radhakrishnan Nagar was a quiet locality. “The absence of a footpath was not felt because only residents’ vehicles would use the stretch,” she says.
 
 Cut to April 2018. The road, because it runs parallel to busy LB Road in Adyar, attracts vehicle users who prefer it as a shortcut leaving pedestrians floundering. In 2011, when her ward councillor proposed relaying the road without a footpath, Geeta put a stop to it with the help of other residents. In her words, describing the proposal, “what for and for whom?”
 
 But the city corporation’s track record did not serve as encouragement. Before 2014, when the corporation became the first (and is still the only) urban local body in the country to adopt a policy to promote nonmotorised transport (NMT), pedestrian safety was not on the agenda.
 
 By 2014, Geeta’s weekly schedule involved a ritualistic visit to   and meeting one officer after the other. Even the infamous red tape could not defeat her spirit. In December 2014, when the corporation issued orders for a footpath, she had served as a go-between for the civic body and other line agencies – facilitating shifting of transformers, electric pillar boxes and underground cables. “I wanted the footpath. I realised my work did not end with getting a work order,” she said.
 
 NMT, when it was adopted, envisioned creating footpath infrastructure on 80% of the approximately 2,700km of city roads maintained by GCC by 2018. This objective remains a vision. As it stands, 70% of the roads in Chennai lack footpaths or have illdesigned pavements taken over by encroachments.
 
 The pitiable state of affairs makes Geeta’s efforts remarkable. Today, she heads the local resident welfare association but remains the footpath’s safe keeper. The corporation is set to undertake repair work worth ?9 lakh on the footpath soon and a message from deputy commissioner (works) M   addressed to Geeta, reads, “I need you to coordinate and monitor (the work).”
 
 Vigilant as she is, she also takes on bureaucrats who smirk at the novelty of citizen-led change. And police commissioner A K   would know. “I met him in mid-2017 and told him about my fight for the footpath. He scoffed at me,” she says. Since then, Viswanathan has been receiving updates about her activism on WhatsApp and Geeta says she is not done yet.
 
