Surat: Union minister of state for textiles Ajay Tamta will be on a two-day visit to the Diamond City on Wednesday. 

 Textile industry leaders hope to meet the minister to discuss issues concerning traders, power loom units and processing sector related to the Goods and Services Tax (GST) and central government’s help in boosting the sector, which generates highest export turnover and provides employment to millions of people. 
 
 Industry sources said the textile ministry has recommended constituting an inter-ministerial panel with a fund of Rs 1,000 crore to boost research and development and technology transfer in the silk sector. At present, the man-made fabric (MMF) sector is lying on a deathbed because of negative impact of GST.
 
 Sources said production of polyester fabric has been drastically reduced from 4 crore metre per day to just 2.5 crore metre. More than 1.25 lakh conventional power looms have been sold in the scrap market and more than 40,000 workers rendered jobless. 
 
 Federation of Indian Art Silk Weaving Industry (FIASWI) chairman Bharat Gandhi said, “FIASWI and some power loom weavers will be meeting Tamta on Thursday. Recently, linen yarn spinning companies have filed a case for imposing anti-dumping duty on import of yarn from China. If this happens, then the weavers will not get yarn at competitive rates. Other issues remain the same as that of the input tax credit to power loom sector.”
 
 The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry ( ) and Global Fabric Resource and Research Centre (GFRRC) have jointly organized a seminar on ‘future opportunities in textiles’ under the leadership of Ajay Tamta, where managing director of Sangam India Ltd, Bhilwara, S N Modani will be the guest of honour. 
 
 Head of GFRRC Girdhargopal Mundra said, “We have invited the minister to show us the way forward on future opportunities in textiles. We are not going to put forth any demands or representations before the minister. He has accepted the invitation as a chief guest and is in the city to attend some private events.”
 
 Power loom industry leader Ashish Gujarati told TOI, “We have been told that Tamta will not meet representative from textile associations and federations. Still, we believe that he will talk about the situation prevailing in the industry at the SGCCI’s event. We hope the central government to seriously study the impact of GST on Surat’s textile sector.” 
 
 
