MADURAI: In a month’s time from now every   in Tamil Nadu has to disclose the revised fee structure which will be valid for the next three years. The new fee structure would be about 10% more than last year, as that is the maximum permissible hike per year under TN Schools (Regulation of Collection of Fee) Act, 2009.

 
  
  
 The one-month ultimatum was fixed by the Madras high court on Friday when it directed the Tamil Nadu Private Schools Fee Determination Committee to finalise the fee structure for 4,500 of the 10,000 private schools in the state by the end of next month. The first bench comprising Chief Justice   and Justice P   issued the direction on a PIL filed by K Hakkim. Once fixed, the schools concerned shall publish revised fee structure before the end of April.
 
 On its part, the government informed the bench that the committee headed by former judge of the Madras high court, Justice T V Masilamani, had already fixed the fee for 5,500 schools for the next three years.
 
 When the case came up for admission before the first bench, petitioner’s counsel   submitted that former chairperson of the committee had fixed the fee structure up to academic year 2017-18. The present committee has not finalised the fee structure for all schools, he said, adding that the court should direct the committee to fix the school fee for academic years 2018-19, 2019-20 and 2020-21.
 
 Special government pleader A K   told the court there are about 10,000 private schools across Tamil Nadu.
 
 
 
 
 For the remaining schools, it will be fixed after submission of records by schools from May 2018.
 
 Responding to this, the petitioner’s counsel said since annual examinations were about to start in the next couple of weeks for all classes, schools would start collecting fees from May onwards.
 
 Hence, it is necessary to fix the fees before May this year, he said. Acceding to his request, the bench fixed April-end as deadline for the committee to come out with a new fee structure.
 
