Nagpur: Lashing out at the Maharashtra government for its failure to submit the report of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing 44 farmer deaths due to pesticide inhalation, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court has orally asked the government “why it was suppressing the report”?

 Categorically refusing to grant extra time to the government pleader to take instructions on submitting the report, a division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Swapna Joshi sternly directed him to file a reply by Friday. “When assurance was given in October to make SIT report public within three weeks, why hasn’t it come till date? You should have pointed it out, whether it was ready or not. You should have called the concerned authorities today itself, taken details about the report, and made a statement today itself,” the judges tersely stated.
 
 The stern observations came while hearing a PIL by social worker Jammu Anand, through counsel Arvind Waghmare, citing several media reports, including that of TOI, contending that over 700 other farmers were admitted in hospitals across Vidarbha with respiratory problems and about 25-30 lost their eyesight, due to failure in implementing Insecticides Act, 1968.
 
 Praying for directives to the government to compensate the family members of the deceased with Rs20 lakh, and Rs10 lakh for those losing their vision, the 55-year-old social worker sought reimbursement to those taking treatment in private hospitals as well. He also demanded lodging of FIRs by SIT under the Insecticides Act against state and local authorities along with manufacturers, distributors and retailers of companies selling such deadly pesticides in Yavatmal.
 
 After exposing the deaths happening due to pesticide inhalation, TOI has been consistently following the issue in Vidarbha, particular in Yavatmal, the place known for highest number of farmers’ suicides in India. Quoting chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, TOI had on December 24 reported that the SIT report was not ready.
 
 Earlier, agriculture minister Pandurang Phundkar had assured to table the SIT report in winter assembly session last month. But the CM asserted that there was no need, since the report was inconclusive and yet to be ready. “We’ve sent viscera samples for further investigations. We’ve already spoken in both houses about various contents of the report,” he had told TOI.
 
 The petitioner pointed out that the respondents totally neglected the provisions of Insecticide Act that led to manufacturers exploiting poor farmers. He demanded SIT should conduct through enquiry into affairs and fix responsibility on concerned authorities, profitmaking companies, and even distributors and retailers. He also sought directives to seal all shops and godowns selling or stocking such deadly products.
 
 
