NEW DELHI: UP Board Results for the 10th Class and 12th Class students is expected to be released on April 29 between 12.30 pm - 1.30 pm. The information was released by the UP Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma. The exams have been conducted between February 6 and March 12, and the students are eagerly waiting for the results.

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Considering the results time, we have compiled some of the interesting facts about the Uttar Pradesh Board.
 
 
 
 
 1) This is the biggest board in India with around 66 lakh students appearing for the examination. 29,81,327 students have registered for the Class 12 examination and 36,55,691 have registered for the Class 10 examination. Another thing is for the first time in the history of Uttar Pradesh Board, the results are being declared in April. The results are slated for release in May every year.
 
 2) More than 11 lakh students have skipped this years examinations as reported by Dinesh Sharma, Deputy Chief minister. Among them, 75% of the students are from neighbouring countries like Bangladesh and Nepal. This means that all of these students have failed in the examination even before the results are declared.
 
 3) The Uttar Pradesh has employed the highest number of Special Task force and other security agencies to make sure that exams are conducted in an efficient way. Until last year there were so many incidents of local mafia getting involved in helping the candidates copy in the examination. 
 
 4) The answers written by the toppers will be uploaded online for the first time so that other students can see the answer grading system employed by the board. This will definitely help the students who will appear for the examinations next year to know how to write better answers in each subject.
 
 5) The pass percentage for 10th Class is 81.18 and 12th Class is 82.62 last year. The members are the board are expecting a better numbers this time. Even after getting the results, the students have an option to re-check or reverify their answer sheets if they feel they deserve better score.
 
 6) The board is planning to make Aadhar card mandatory for this year 9th Class and 11th Class students who will be applying for the board exams next year. They should submit a copy of the proof while filling the forms itself so that there won't be any malpractices like one student giving the examination in the place of another person.
 
 
 
 
