Visakhapatnam:   sources are adversely impacted by existing saltpans (wide stretches of ground containing   deposits) in Pudimadaka area Anakapalle mandal in Visakhapatnam district, say researchers from environment studies department of universities.

 Samples collected from Pudimadaka by researchers had showed sodium absorption ratio content ranging from 8.43 to 44.60, which indicates medium hazard prone. Ground water quality values of samples from Pudimadaka were in the range of 41.58 - 42.44 indicating their poor quality rendering it unfit for agricultural purpose.
 
 A scientific study for the first time in AP was also done by the researchers from Andhra University Department of Civil Engineering and Gitam University Department of Environmental Studies a few years ago and the research ‘Evaluation of Water quality in the vicinity of some saltpans in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, was also published in The Bioscan international Journal. The researchers associated with the study included Y Avasn Maruthi, S Ramakrishna Rao, D Apta Chaitanya, Kaizar Hossain, R Santhosh Kumar, M Sitaratnam and R Tulasi Rao.
 
 To assess the impact of saltpan effluent on available water sources existing in and around saltflats, 70 water samples from two sampling sites were collected along coastal line and analysed for physicochemical parameters. The result obtained conclusively suggests the detrimental impact of saline effluent on water quality in Pudimadaka area, rendering it unsuitable for the propagation of life and unfit for agricultural purpose. 
 
 In AP, salinisation of fresh water aquifers is mainly due to indiscriminate utility of ground water, cyclonic storms and manmade pollution (through aquaculture, agricultural practices, industries and sewage). This study aimed at identifying the quality of water in the vicinity of saltpans and also assessing the rate of salinization of the same due to practicing of traditional salt making.
 
 “Salinity is one of the most important problems of agricultural irrigation in arid and semi-arid zones. Both irrigation water and soil composition can increase salinity, which in turn decreases crop productivity and forces a shift to more resistant crops. Salinization of coastal fresh water aquifers by seawater intrusion, geomorphic changes, tidal waves, cyclonic storms and man-made hazards are major causes of the groundwater pollution in the coastal areas of AP,” elaborated R Santhosh Kumar, in his research.
 
 “The analysis of all the water samples collected from the sampling sites revealed that the high load of hardness, chloride, calcium, magnesium and sodium of the saltpan effluent caused increase in all the parameter values. The results clearly indicated that water quality has deteriorated due to gross alteration values of pH, hardness, chloride and sodium. Experimental results suggest the need of proper treatment of effluents from saltpan prior to the release into the neighboring water bodies, to protect aquatic environment and depending life forms,” stated one of the researchers Ramakrishna Rao in his study.
 
 Prof M Jagannadha Rao, from the Geology department of Andhra University (AU) added, “Even though livelihood of those associated with traditional salt making is connected to it, there is no doubt that salt pans render the soil and nearby lands fallow and unsuitable for agriculture. The land cannot be easily reclaimed but only by removing the entire top soil cover upto to a depth of few metres and replacing it with fertile soil to make it productive. However, this is a highly costly affair and in such cases where salt deposits exist, the soil and water are bound to be affected.” 
 
 
