BHOPAL: It is a development, which is sure to give   (BMC) sleepless nights. The   Municipal Corporation (BMC) cancelled contract of Agra-based company last week as the civic agency and private contractor failed to reach consensus on terms related to land for new slaughter house. 

 The impasse continued for almost six months with both the BMC and the contractor refusing to budge from their stand on the prickly issue of land. The   ( ) had set March 18 as deadline to set up new slaughter house and make it functional. After March 18 deadline, delay of each day will invite a fine of Rs 10,000.
 
 After last meeting between two parties, the BMC has now decided to withdraw contract and submit the same response before the tribunal in next hearing slated to be held on January 19. After this decision, the BMC may also lose its  .
 
 "Since the contractor has refused to budge on his demand for 34 acres of land, we have decided not to succumb under pressure. We have received few best deals where contractors are willing to construct abattoir on four acres of land and are also ready to invest more," BMC commissioner Priyanka Das told TOI.
 
 She said after going through the proposal of Agra-based private contractor Haji Mohammad Aashiq Agro (HMA), the BMC reached the conclusion we cannot afford to go beyond terms of contract .
 
 "We cannot afford to provide beyond what has been offered in the contract bid. We will soon communicate it to the contractor and NGT," she said.
 
 BMC earlier told the green bench the private contractor was not willing to sign the agreement papers and demanded 34 acres of land against 4 acres offered by the municipal body.
 
 By now, the contractor should have started the construction at new site. However, the fresh development may further delay the abattoir shifting and also give a tough time to the BMC.
 
 Contrary to BMC claims, the HMA has in the meeting pointed out that attention needs to be paid to the BMC's tender, which allegedly does not mention four acres are to be given on 20-year lease.
 
 The contractor had earlier communicated the same to the tribunal maintaining the proposed state-of-art abattoir on four acres of land offered by BMC was against the tender terms.
 
 According to the tender, a copy of which is with TOI, there is no mention of four acres of land to be given for construction of the slaughter house. The tender was awarded to the contractor on the basis of DBO (design, build and operate) without any financial assistance from the BMC.
 
 The tender states the BMC shall provide the required land for establishment of the modern slaughter house to the contractor for 20-year lease period."
 
 The tender requires the contractor to construct a plant with capacity of slaughtering 800 big animals and 400 small animals per day. It also says that "the contractor can however set up a plant of higher capacity and use extra space for its own business.
 
 
  
 
 
