KOCHI: The   Viksana Janakiya Samithi (VJVJS) is planning to move the high court if the state government fails to incorporate changes in the design of the under-construction Vyttila   considered to be flawed. The people’s collective has launched a protest campaign urging the government to ensure signal-free movement of vehicles in all directions from the junction.

 Vincent John, chairman, VJVJS, said they will again take up the matter with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and PWD minister G Sudhakaran. He said that inefficient administrative officials and incompetent engineers together have worked out a design, which is a sham.
 
 “The design prepared by PWD is not available on public domain. It is not possible to keep waiting for ever. The government has to announce their decision at the earliest. Otherwise, we will be forced to take legal recourse,” he said.
 
 According to the people’s collective, if the PWD goes ahead with the current plan it would lead to increase in consumption of fossil fuel, pollution and traffic congestion. People will end up wasting their precious time on road.
 
 Shameer Abdulla, who has created alternative designs for the project, said: “I am not particular that the government should implement my design. But, I can say that it is possible to come out with a better design that does not require any land acquisition. I along with my engineer friends prepared this design after thoroughly studying the landscape and movement of traffic through this area.”
 
 The present plan being implemented by PWD will only ease movement of vehicles in two directions – towards Alappuzha and Edappally. Vehicles, including emergency services, moving in other directions have to halt at signals. “Only 30-40% vehicles moving through Vyttila Junction will benefit from this project,” he added.
 
 As the state government and senior bureaucrats have ignored their repeated pleas, the VJVJS has roped in support of religious leaders, prominent businessmen, owners of various commercial establishments and residents from Vyttila and neighbouring areas.
 
 Fr Joseph Thattassery of St Raphael’s Church, Thykoodam, said those in power have completely ignored the needs of public. 
 
 “People’s aspirations and demands have fallen on deaf ears. Hence, we all hope and pray for divine intervention to save Vyttila,” he said.
 
 Fr Sunny Varghese, a representative of Malankara   Syrian Church, has also extended support to the campaign. Haji K A Kunhu Mohammed, Moulavi of  , said that they would hold a special prayer at the mosque for Vyttila flyover.
 
 
