Mangaluru: Hundreds of athletes who brought laurels to the state in various sporting events haven’t got their prize money since the past four years.

 These athletes, most of whom hail from poor families, have been lamenting that they aren’t able to pursue their ambition of representing the country, as they are forced to take up a career so that they can afford two square meals a day.
 
 The cash award is disbursed by the state government under the department of youth empowerment and sports, to all medal-winning athletes. The compensation money ranges from a few thousands (junior) at the state level, up to Rs 50 lakh for international medals (senior). However, the money hasn’t reached these athletes since at least three years. It is only in January this year that the government disbursed the cash awards that were due since 2014, but not all beneficiaries of 2014 have received it.
 
 However, the issue did not come to light as the athletes feared for their future and kept mum on the issue. Unfortunately, most of the athletes even now do not wish to be named, fearing consequences.
 
 Online application
 
 The department of youth empowerment and sports had invited applications from candidates for the cash prize. However, an athlete said the portal had been rejecting his application. The deadline to apply for the cash prize is now over.
 
 Sathish Sajjanar, deputy director, DYES, which is based in Bengaluru, said, “We have cleared cash prizes for the year 2013-14. We will invite applications for the remaining years in the next few months. Regarding the reason for keeping the money pending for over three years, he said, “You need to ask the government.”
 
 When TOI contacted minister for fisheries, youth empowerment and sports,Pramod Madhwaraj, he said, “We will look into the matter.”
 
 “The cheques are ready. We will hand it over shortly. The deadline to submit applications online is over. Let the winning athletes submit the applications manually, which we will accept,” he said.
 
 A source privy to the developments said the money has to be released every year to those who win medals, so that they can remain focused on their discipline. “It seems that the department has released money for 2014, but big cash awards have been kept pending. No athlete in the state has received money for their achievements since 2015,” he said.
 
 
