GURUGRAM: Tanjum Ahmed, a 20-year-old   worker from Bihar, fell from a makeshift lift at a housing project site in Gurugram and died in December last year, while his three co-workers sustained injuries. 

 
 Though the project manger was arrested and later released on bail, no one knows about the whereabouts of the other three  . Trade union members says in all likelihood, the three had gone back to their villages and would not return even to claim compensation.
 
 Rajinder Singh, a district secretary at Central Indian Trade Union ( ), said it is common for construction companies and contractors to change a full lot of workers after such an accident. “They also snatch mobile phones from affected workers so that unions cannot contact them and mobilise a protest,” he adds. In most such accidents, the workers go missing overnight and no reports are filed with police. 
 
 This is why workers, unions and activists believe that Ahmed’s case was registered is something positive. There are 6,173 workers employed across 361 construction   in the city. 
 
 “Nine out of 10 cases of workers being injured or dead go unreported. Their bodies are sent to their villages or burnt so as not to leave a trace,” says Shaymvir, a labour rights activist. One of the main reasons for such recurrent accidents is lack of   measures. Ahmed and his co-workers did not have a helmet on the day they met with the accident.
 
 Multiple workers TOI spoke to said that at most places, they do not get the basic safety gear such as helmets, harnesses and safety nets. Thirty-four-year-old Meghram, who sustained head injuries while working at a construction site in the city in July last year, said, “There are no safety and security arrangements, especially at the smaller construction sites such as individual buildings. We have to ensure our own safety but that does not suffice, which is how I fell at work last year.”
 
 Even officials of the labour department agree that many construction sites in the city do not follow basic safety norms. “Most sites do not have adequate safety measures, they save money even on these basic things. Earlier, we could do surprise checks and inspections, but now every establishment has to be given prior notice before any inspection,” said a labour department official.
 
 Along with helmets and other safety gear for workers, multi-storied buildings must have safety nets. At several construction sites across the city that this correspondent visited, nets were torn or simply not there. 
 
 The problem, however, does not end with lack of safety measures. Even after they have sustained injuries, workers struggle to get compensation. In most cases, the contractor gives them a meagre sum and goes missing. Rajendra Singh, 40, had such an experience. He was doing electrical work at the office site of one of the biggest e-commerce companies in Sector 15 when he fell and fractured his leg. “The owner of the building paid me Rs 10,000 and ran away. I filed a complaint at the nearest police station and with the labour department but nothing has come out of it yet,” he said.
 
 Leading   said say they do everything they are capable of to make sure no accidents take place at construction sites. “We instruct contractors and site engineers to ensure workers have helmets, harnesses and safety nets when working on higher floors. The adoption of new construction techniques has also helped to bring down number of accidents. In order to ensure the safety of workers’ kids, we have makeshift schools with teachers as well as food,” said Ajay Singla, director, Avalon Group.
 
 Sources in the industry conceded there were practical problems with implementation of all safety norms as the industry is largely unorganised. “Given the scale of work, some jobs are outsourced and contractors overlook safety concerns to cut costs,” said a city-based developer, requesting anonymity. 
 
 Nearly Rs 400 crore is lying with the Gurugram Construction Workers’ Welfare Board, according to an RTI reply. The functions of the board include providing immediate assistance to workers in case of accidents and taking care of disbursal of other benefits such as pension, education assistance and healthcare aid. Cess charged at 1% to 2% from all developers under The Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Cess Act, 1996, is deposited with the board. This money could well be utilised for the betterment of workers in co-ordination with workers’ organisations, companies and the government.
 
 
