VADODARA/ANAND: Two plants growing in abundance across Gujarat could open fresh avenues for developing Ayurvedic  .

 For the first time, Gujarat-based pharmacy researchers have identified particular chemicals in plants named vardharo (argyreia speciosa) and ekharo ( hygrophila spinosa) which help increase libido, treat erectile dysfunctions, enhance sperm counts and improve fertility levels. Tribals have been using the leaves and stems of these plants growing on the riverbanks and water bodies for years.
 
 Dr Niraj Vyas, an assistant professor at the Ramanbhai Patel College of Pharmacy at the Charotar University of Science and Technology (CHARUSAT), has identified chemicals that are responsible for improving male fertility. These two medicinal plants find a mention in ‘Vajikarana chikitsa’ – a branch of Ayurveda that deals with sexual dysfunctions. 
 
 “There are at least 60 medicinal plants listed in Vajikarana chikitsa that deal with the management of defective semen, spermatogenesis along with sexual potencification,” said Vyas, who carried out his PhD research work on ‘Effects of some Ayurvedic Medicinal Plants on Male Infertility’ under guidance of Dr Manan Raval, associate professor.
 
 Both ‘vardharo’ or ‘samudra sokh’ in Sanskrit and ‘ekharo’ or ‘Kokilakasha’ have a proven positive effect on male infertility. However, there was no scientific evidence on its beneficial effects, said Vyas, adding that the beneficial chemicals which are naturally found in the plants belong to the alkaloid class. 
 
 “The   revealed that sperm count in rats increased while their sexual activity also improved,” said Vyas, who recently received best PhD thesis award in pharmaceutical sciences category for the year 2017 announced by the Gujarat Science Academy.
 
 Vyas is readying to file a patent for the chemicals discovered. The pre-clinical research carried out on rats have been successful while the researchers will shortly apply for human trials.
 
 “This are tertiary nitrogen containing compound which are obtained from higher plants (in layman’s terms higher plants are those which have separate roots, stems and leaves),” said Dr Manan Raval. 
 
 “This is the first report of this specific compound that has been extracted from the plants and found positive on the cell line too – making us doubly sure about its effect,” said Raval. 
 
 “This compound will provide a lead for development of series of new drugs which may help those suffering from sexual dysfunction especially because of low testosterone levels,” he said.
 
 “Also, this compound will serve as standard to evaluate quality of plant raw material which is important in international market,” he added. 
 
 The research also got awarded with a gold medal and a certificate of recognition at the 32nd Gujarat Science Congress that was held in first week of February at Bhavnagar. 
 
 While ‘vardharo’ is a climber, ‘ekharo’ is a spinous plant – both commonly found in the wild on riverside across the length and breadth of India. In fact, tribals widely use stems or leaves of these two plants for treating fever as well.
 
 
