AGRA: The Uttar Pradesh government has sent out letters to the   DM and SSP asking for their views on the withdrawal of criminal cases against BJP leaders, some of them ministers now, allegedly involved in the   of 2013 that rendered more than 50,000 homeless and left 63 dead. 

 The letter, sent from the office of the special secretary, Raj Singh, in the department of justice, seeks information on the possibility of withdrawing nine criminal cases pending in a local court in Muzaffarnagar against some top BJP leaders. Cases were then filed against UP minister Suresh Rana, former Union minister Sanjeev Balyan, MP Bhartendu Singh, MLA Umesh Malik and party functionary Sadhvi Prachi.
 
 In the letter dated January 5, information has been sought on 13 points, including whether the cases can be withdrawn in "public interest".
 
 Confirming such a letter had gone out, principal secretary (home) Arvind Kumar told TOI on Saturday: "The matter concerns the justice department. Yes, 13-point information was sought from the DM and SSP of Muzaffarnagar for their recommendation on whether the cases can be withdrawn or not regarding the 2013 riot cases."
 
 Kumar added that an applicant (accused) is free to file a petition to the government seeking relief. "Suppose a person says that a particular case against him is fake and it should be withdrawn, the application is then forwarded by the state government to the district administration to seek a report. It's a routine exercise. The DM and SSP's recommendation is asked as to what they have to say. Then the local administration takes a report from the prosecution looking into the case to see whether there is substantial evidence or not against the accused. Based on the status of the evidence a recommendation report is then sent by district authorities."
 
 Though the BJP functionaries have not been named in the letter, the file numbers pertaining to the cases against them have been mentioned. The accused are facing various charges, from violating prohibitory orders to deterring public servants from discharging their duties and wrongful restraint.
 
 It has been alleged in court that some of the leaders participated in a "mahapanchayat" that escalated violence. Many had then made provocative speeches even as videos insinuating that certain groups were fanning trouble were circulated openly and widely.
 
 Some of the 13 points mentioned in the letter are: who all are involved in the case; what evidence is available; what points or logic the accused/applicant has put forward to support his withdrawal claim; what is the prosecution status report on available evidence; whether there is any merit in withdrawing the case, and who is the applicant (accused).
 
 "Asking district authorities for their recommendation does not mean or prove that a decision has been taken by the government to withdraw the case," Kumar said. "The recommendation of the district authorities is put forward to a committee headed by the home secretary, principal secretary and others. Even if the district administration feels that a certain case needs to be dropped, it's the committee that takes a call. That, too, comes after approval of the law minister."
 
 The principal secretary added, "If the government thinks a case is fit to be withdrawn, the concerned court is told about it and finally it is the court's discretion."
 
