Rajiv.Kalkod  Bengaluru: Various sensitization campaigns notwithstanding, children continued to be increasingly targeted by sexually depraved adults in Bengaluru during 2017. The city saw registration of 353 cases under the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act till November-end last year, up from 317 reported during 2016, data with city police has revealed. There’s also a rise in number of undetected cases. While four cases under Pocso were undetected in 2016, the number touched 18 during the first 11 months in 2017. According Bengaluru police, the north division recorded the highest number of Pocso cases at 89 while the central division registered the lowest at 15. A total of 61 Pocso cases were reported from the west division, 44 from south, 41 from east, 35 from north-east, 30 from south-east and 38 from Whitefield division.  Police officials, however, pointed out that in about 250 cases of those reported in the first 11 months of 2017, the perpetrators were known to their victims. “Relatives, neighbours, family friends and in rare cases, stepfathers or fathers themselves, have been offenders. More number of mothers are coming forward and filing complaints. We have cases where mothers have approached police, notwithstanding opposition from their parents and in-laws when their wards were sexually exploited,” a senior officer said. Police claimed that school campuses have become safer for children than before. They said regular meetings with private school managements where it is insisted that girl students should be accompanied by female wardens everywhere in the campus have yielded fruits. “There’s a decline in sexual assault cases on campuses,” the officer asserted. UNDER THREAT In July: A staffer of a southeast Bengaluru nursery school was arrested for sexually assaulting a three-year-old inside the school. The girl's mother found her daughter behaving abnormally and asked her what had happened. She approached police, notwithstanding resistance from her husband. In November: Four men, including a hotel owner, were arrested for allegedly gang-raping a school-going minor girl after locking her inside a hotel room in east Bengaluru. The girl's friends had allegedly taken her away on the pretext of going to a party and abducted her.  December: A 17-year-old girl from Madhugiri was brought by her maternal uncle to Bengaluru, where he married her forcibly in a temple and raped her. The girl fled with a boyfriend to escape his clutches but the man too sexually assaulted her. Police rescued her and arrested both the culprits. Child marriage cases go up Is child marriage becoming less of an aberration in Bengaluru? The answer may be yes, if one goes by the increase in the number of child marriage cases coming on the radar of city police. While one case was registered in 2015, there were three in 2016. The number rose to four in the first 11 months of 2017. One case of child marriage was reported in the city in December too.  Kripa Alva, chairperson, Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KSCPC), said these cases were reported as there’s greater awareness among the public. “In 2017, we handled a case where parents of a 17-year-old girl were forcing her to marry a man of their choice. The girl’s maternal grandparents contacted us and we succeeded in stopping the marriage,” she said. Dip in crimes by juveniles Bengaluru witnessed a dip in incidences of children coming into conflict with law in 2017. According to statistics, 25 cases were booked against minors under the Juvenile Justice Act in the first 11 months of 2017, as against 45 cases in 2016. In 2015, 29 minors were booked.  “Most cases pertained to minor boys indulging in robbery and mugging. When it comes to murder, five cases involving juveniles were reported across the city,” an officer said. In the most high profile murder case reported last year, a 16-year-old Class X student of a government school in Yelahanka was stabbed to death by schoolmate in February, following a fight over seats during the annual day function at their institution. 