PUNE: The first year mechanical engineering paper of   (SPPU) conducted for repeaters and students clearing their back log was found on the smartphones of students and also of the exam department officials a few minutes after the exam started on Wednesday.

 The university exam department officials found out that the source of paper going viral was the exam centre in   (MIT).
 
  
  
 
 Controller of examination at SPPU,  , immediately sent his squad to MIT to investigate the matter.   said, “The exam department received complaints that the paper had gone viral. The complainants said the paper went viral from the MIT exam centre. We sent a squad to the centre to conduct an inquiry into the matter.”
 
 The exam department maintained that some coaching class representatives sent the question papers to the exam department officials stating that they have gone viral. 
 
 “On further investigation, we found that one paper was from 2014 and another from 2017. It was clear that the papers going viral were old. However, the third question paper that we received was of Wednesday's exam. It had a watermark on it. It is clear that the college downloaded the question paper 30 minutes before the examination,” said Chavan.
 
 The exam department said the paper had not leaked. They stated that the photographs of the question paper were taken by some students after the paper was distributed in the exam hall at the scheduled time. 
 
 “The students seemed to have taken pictures on their cellphones and shared it through social media. There is negligence on the part of the exam centre and strict action will be taken against them,” Chavan said.
 
 Meanwhile, a spokesperson for MIT said, “If the SPPU officials have stated that there is negligence on our part, then we shall take proper action and see to it that the guilty are punished.” An SPPU statement issued late in the evening said that, if required, a police complaint will be filed .
 
 Student activist   said, “If the claims made by the university are true, then it is impossible to imagine how the students entered the exam hall with their smartphones. Cellphones are not allowed inside exam halls. This is not the first time that a question paper of the university exams has gone viral. There needs to be stringent action by university officials.”
 
 
