GURUGRAM: Sixty-four people were arrested while another 200 booked on various charges, during a six-hour-long district-wide drive that kicked off late on Thursday and continued till the early hours of Friday, in a move aimed at improving law and order across Gurgaon. 

 During the “night-domination” campaign, which was launched on the directive of  , the police personnel also impounded four country-made pistols, three cartridges, 31 cartons of liquor, 15 vehicles and Rs 61,555 in cash.
 
 Police said the 64 people were arrested mainly for carrying illegal weapons, consuming liquor in public places and gambling, while most of the 200 were booked under various provisions of the Motor Vehicle Act.
 
 Over 2,500 cops from 35 police stations, traffic department, crime units and the reserved forces patrolled the city roads between 11pm on Thursday and 4am on Friday.
 
 The police personnel, divided in 257 teams and spearheaded by the SHOs, ACPs and DCs, raided 243 sensitive places, including shopping malls, bus stands, railway stations, temples, Gurdwaras and other key public places. Around 5,670 vehicles were checked while 590 challans were issued to vehicle owners for various offences. 
 
 These apart, 440 people, who were roaming around suspiciously, were issued “stranger rolls” for failing to show their ID cards. 
 
 Police sources said a stranger roll was nothing but a form that one had to fill in with personal details, like name, father’s name, address, mobile number, office address, etc. 
 
 “A person is asked to fill in a stranger roll when one fails to provide any valid ID. We warned the “strangers” against roaming around on the streets at night without their IDs. We have taken their details and verifying the information given by them,” said a senior police officer.
 
 “The night-domination drive was conducted on the directive of the DGP. The entire work force was out on the roads. To maintain law and order and check crimes, more such drives will be conducted in future,” said Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime), Gurgaon.
 
 
