TIRUNELVELI: From 2003, the   have registered 341 usury cases and arrested 468 usurers including a few women. Sadly, a mere seven cases have resulted in conviction of the accused. While many cases are under trial, statistics shows that as many as 120 cases have ended in the accused getting acquitted, which is 17 times the number of cases in which victims got justice.

 Complainants and witnesses turning hostile is cited as the reason for the high rate of acquittal. “When a case is registered the usurer approaches the complainant and offers to return the property documents or surety he obtained from the borrower in an out of the court settlement. They even waive the exorbitant interest. The victim then turns hostile as they are not serious about getting the usurer punished,” a police officer said.
 
 Fifty-four usury cases were registered in 2017, the second highest number of cases registered in the district, only next to 61 cases registered in 2011. Prior to the suicide committed by   with his wife and two little daughters at the Tirunelveli Collectorate on October 23 the district police had registered only 14 usury cases from January. The remaining 40 cases were after the incident.
 
 On the status of the cases registered over the years, Superintendent of Police (SP) of   said that 27 cases are under inquiry at the station level, of which 23 cases were registered in 2017. “We are expediting inquiry and will soon file charge sheets for those cases and ensure speedy commencement of trial,” he said.
 
 The SP said that four cases have been pending inquiry since 2011. “One each is pending from 2011 and 2013 and two from 2015. Status of these cases is reviewed and they will also be chargesheeted soon,” the SP added. Chargesheet could not be filed in 93 cases as during the course of inquiry the police came to know that they were not incidents of usury.
 
 “Complainants had reported usury in these cases as they were unable to repay loans. They were within the government approved permissible interest rate of nine per cent in case of secured loans or twelve per cent in case of unsecured loans. Some of them had even borrowed money without interest from friends and family,” a police officer said.
 
 It is learnt that this year the SP’s office has been receiving three to four usury petitions every week, of which at least one case is getting registered on a weekly basis, based on the merits of the complaint.
 
 
