NEW DELHI: Those who saw him in pomp insist he is the finest footballer India has produced since the 1960s. But  , who led India to gold in the 1962 Jakarta Asian Games and who turns 80 on Monday, was also a cricketer of considerable merit who famously demolished the West Indies in the winter of 1966.

 "The match was played on a green top at a newly-built stadium in Indore. Chuni was an inswing bowler who could also surprise you with the occasional leg-cutter. The West Indians found it difficult to negotiate his swing," recalls Daljit Singh, former Bihar captain and Mohali pitch curator now.
 
 The game was played between the Caribbeans and the combined side of East and Central Zone, regarded as the weakest zones in domestic cricket then. The visitors had the likes of Rohan Kanhai,  , Wes Hall and   in their ranks.   led the zonal side.
 
 The bamboozling of the Windies, who lost the game by an innings and 44 runs, happened in tandem with Bengal medium pacer  , who went on to play four Tests for India. Guha too was devastating taking a total 10 wickets, including seven for 49 in the second innings. He also scored 46 runs and finished with match-figures of 10 for 113. This performance probably earned him a ticket to the 1967 England tour.
 
 Chuni's overall figures was an outstanding eight for 97, including five scalps for 47 in the first innings. "My most prized victim was Kanhai. He went for a sweep, mistimed it and was caught in the gully. I really enjoyed bowling on that pitch," the footballer turned cricketer told TOI over phone.
 
 "Apart from those wickets, Chuni also scored a crucial 25. And I still remember one of the catches he took. Paceman Lester King ballooned a shot off Guha. Being a tremendous athlete, Chuni ran from midwicket at full speed to square leg and stretched out his hand. The ball got stuck to his palm. By the time he ended his run, Chuni had reached fine leg. In my view, this was Chuni da's match. He was a remarkable sportsman in every way," says Daljit.
 
 Chuni had the ability to raise his game on important occasions. He scored 96 and 84 in the 1969 Ranji final against Bombay in Brabourne Stadium which Bengal lost on first innings lead. "I have vivid memories of my only Ranji hundred against Bihar. Unless you score a century in Ranji, you are not remembered," he said.
 
 Chuni played for   all his life and captained the club to three successive Durand Cup triumphs. In his book, Barefoot to Boots, Novy Kapadia recounts that when President Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan saw Chuni warming up before the 1965 final, he remarked, "So I see Chuni again. You seem to have become a permanent feature of the finals."
 
 "His dribbling skills, body feints, positional play and peripheral vision him made him acomplete striker, certainly good enough for Tottenham to show interest," Kapadia said.
 
 In the semifinal against South Vietnam in the 1962 Asian Games, Chuni scored two goals in a thrilling 3-2 win. "It was a memorable occasion for me," the footballer said. He also delivered a telling pass that enabled P K Banerjee fire the opening goal in India's 2-0 win the final over South Korea. "Apart from being a super ball player, he was also a fine playmaker," said Kapadia.
 
