Nagpur: Just like PhD entrance test (PET) aspirants of 2013, Nagpur University (NU) has left several guides in the lurch by not including a ‘saving clause’ in the new direction for the doctoral programme. In fact, this oversight will work as a double-edged sword, with guides losing years before finding a student while aspirants may lose PET validity before they find a guide.

 In the new directive, NU has incorporated a saving clause for students pursuing PhD under a guide not belonging to the ‘place of research’. The clause offers respite to such PhD students, as they would be allowed to submit their work despite repealing of the old direction.
 
 However, these same guides, and many other approved PG teachers, whose colleges or departments are not recognized as place of research won't be able to take new PhD candidates.
 
 Under these conditions, many PG teachers would remain idle for years on end, or may never get a chance to become a guide in their career if their college does not get place of research status.
 
 Pro-VC Pramod Yeole, who is chairman of Research & Recognition Committee (RRC), said such PG teachers can’t be allowed to admit students from a different place of research. “It would be a violation of UGC norms. The apex body would not recognize PhDs if they have been conducted under outside guides,” he said.
 
 NU sources said ideally the new rules should apply to PG teachers who would be getting recognition post implementation of the new direction. “How can the university apply rules in retrospect? On one hand, it is offering saving clause for students, on the other, it is ignoring the guides,” they said. 
 
 Yeole said as of today, the directive is perfect.
 
 In 2016, NU had adopted a similar stiff stance and refused to bail out PhD aspirants after implementing Direction 29 of 2012. Later, aspirants were forced to move Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court, which ruled in their favour. The court had held that new rules for PET can't be applied retrospectively to those who cleared the exam as per old norms.
 
 TOI has been pointing out loopholes in Direction 37 of 2017, which made pursuing PhD not only difficult but is also silent on core issues related to previous guides and aspirants. The PET validity has been cut to 36 months from 60. This means students may have to appear for PET more than once.
 
 On January 11, TOI had reported how NU has ruled out early starting of online PhD registrations brushing aside pleas of several aspirants. The aggrieved students have pointed out that they have been unable find place of research, guides and seat as prescribed by NU.
 
 
