KOCHI: The state government has opposed the plea for a three-tier flyover system at   before the   high court.

 Responding to a petition filed by   of Nettoor for a three-tier flyover, the government has informed the court that the existing project that has received final approval could not be changed.
 
 The government’s stance was submitted before the court in the form of an affidavit filed by public works department (PWD).
 
 While opposing the plea for a three-tier system, it is pointed out by PWD that the flyover is being constructed on the national highway. Meanwhile, complaints and suggestions about other roads coming in to   can be submitted before the expert committee formed, the affidavit said.
 
 There are several multistorey buildings around Vyttila and the present project was planned in such a way as to minimize the loss to the government while taking over or demolishing such buildings to make the project a reality, the court was told.
 
 The final approval was given after considering the fact that the need for land acquisition is low. A six-way flyover is being constructed to ensure smooth flow of traffic through the national highway and work has already started, the government submitted.
 
 Further, the government said SNC Lavalin was entrusted with the task of preparing adetailed plan for building flyovers at  , Palarivattom, Vyttila and Kundannoor in 2008.
 
 The project that required acquisition of 1.58 hectares and an expense of Rs 1,200 crore was not granted permission by the central government. However, the state government has decided to build a flyover at Vyttila in view of the increasing traffic congestion.
 
 Nagesh Consultancy of Bengaluru was asked to prepare a detailed plan report and they prepared the plan for the six-lane flyover linking the national highway, the government informed.
 
 It was alleged by the petitioner that no other vehicles other than those moving along NH-66 would be benefited by the flyover, as has been done at Edappally and Palarivattom.
 
 The petition had stated that as per the present plan, there is no provision for vehicles to pass without waiting for a traffic signal when they approach from Edappally to go to Kadavanthra, from Tripunithura to Kadavanthra, from Kadavanthra to Tripunithura and Kundannoor, from Kundannoor to Tripunithura, and from Thammanam to Tripunithura. The plan also won’t benefit buses going into or exiting the mobility hub, it was alleged.
 
