NEW DELHI: The   on Monday decided to rope in the Comptroller & Auditor General of India to conduct   of a children home run by an NGO.

 A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and P S Teji issued notice to   in connection with the audit of   Children Home operated by NGO  , seeking its participation in the ongoing proceedings.
 
 The court decided to get CAG in the picture after taking stock of adverse reports filed by several agencies, including the department of women and child development, Delhi government, the concerned child welfare committee and an earlier report by the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR).
 
 In addition, the WCD department informed the court on Monday that it has issued a show cause notice to Prayas last week. The government acted after taking note of the DCPCR report, which highlighted several shortcomings such as absence of wash basins in the toilets, inadequate electrical fittings and appliances as well as no drinking water facilities for the children.
 
 While issuing the show cause notice, the department also indicated a “governance crisis” at the home citing shortage of security and paramedical staff as enumerated in another inspection report prepared by the CWC and sent to the department.
 
 The department informed the court that following the CWC inspection, the NGO had removed some of the deficiencies pointed out, but several still remained, prompting it to issue the notice. Its affidavit came in response to a query from the court earlier on how it intends to act on the findings of DCPCR with respect to the home run by Prayas. It had then also pulled up the NGO’s representative pointing out that if homes run by NGOs are in such dismal conditions perhaps the government should take over these. 
 
 For the past few years, HC has been monitoring steps taken to improve the 114 homes for children, out of which 14 are run by the Delhi government while the rest are operated by other organisations. These homes have more than 3,000 children. The court decided to examine the condition of all children homes when a 17-year-old girl tried to run away from one such place run by Prayas in Tughlaqabad.
 
 TOI had earlier highlighted the DCPCR report. The panel’s team had inspected the home in Jahangirpuri on December 9, and found rat-infested kitchens, dirty toilets with no doors or soap, and complaints of physical torture.
 
 
