Hassan: It was a black harvest festival for Jayamma, whose only grandson was trampled to death by a   close to her house in Hassan, early on Sunday.

 S Bharath, 14, who had come to his grandmother’s house in Kodagathavalli village in Alur taluk to celebrate Makara Sankranti, died a day after he arrived. Incidentally, Jayamma lost her son a year ago.
 
 Bharat, a student of SDM High School, had come directly to his grandmother’s house from school in Hassan, on Saturday evening.
 
 On Sunday morning, Bharat’s friends had come to meet him and after spending some time in the house, they went out to play. Unaware of the tusker’s movement in the area, the group was playing in a field near the house. 
 
 The  , which was moving behind the bushes, suddenly charged at the children. While Bharat’s friends managed to escape the charging elephant, a frightened Bharat couldn’t run. The tusker caught him up and dragged him for around 200 metres before trampling his head.
 
 Villagers who heard the children crying for help, rushed to the spot. The villagers tried to rescue Bharat from the tusker by throwing stones and making loud sounds, but their efforts failed. Before they could drive the elephant away, Bharat was killed. 
 
 Villagers said Bharat’s father Suresh had died due to bad health last year, and the boy was living with his mother in Hassan. He would visit his grandmother during holidays. 
 
 The villagers informed the   and Alur police, who rushed to the spot. 
 
 ACF Harish told TOI that they plan to chase the tusker back into the woods. “We suspect the tusker had come from Kattepura forest area. We informed forest officers in Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, who agreed to send elephants from their camps to drive the tusker back into to forest,” he said. 
 
 The forest department also announced Rs 5lakh compensation for the family of the victim. 
 
 Meanwhile, Alur police registered a case and handed Bharat’s body to his family after postmortem. 
 
 Villagers complained that for the past two months, a tusker which had separated from the herd was roaming near the villages. They had complained to forest officials who failed to take any action to drive the elephant into to woods. 
 
 The villagers who conducted protest in the village had heated argument with forest officers for their failure. Sakleshpura MLA HK Kumaraswamy who rushed to the spot managed to convince the villagers to call of the protest. 
 
 AREA PRONE TO CONFLICT
 
 According to a forest officer, Kodagathavalli and neighbouring villages like Katte Hosuru, Nagavara and others which are close to the Hemavathi backwaters, are prone to  . 
 
 The Dodda Betta and Kattepura forests, spread over thousands of acres near the backwaters, have become a shelter for elephants which enter fields and fertile plantations for food. 
 
 In the past decade, nearly a hundred villagers have been killed due to the conflict. Last year, at least 10 people were killed by tuskers. But this is the first incident of a child being attacked and killed by an elephant in the region. Last month, three people were killed by wild elephants in the Alur-Sakleshpur region. 
 
 A few years ago, 25 elephants which were causing problems to farmers in Alur, Yesalur and Sakleshpura ranges were caught and relocated to different forests.
 
 
