NEW DELHI: Despite the Commonwealth Games Federation (CGF) categorically stating that there will be no going back on the decision to reinstate   as a discipline at the 2022 Birmingham CWG, India is yet not giving up on its hopes to get it included in the Games programme as an optional sport.

 
 
 
 Sports minister   on Wednesday wrote separate letters to both the CGF president Louise Martin and British MP Matt Hancock, the secretary of state for digital, culture, media and sport, requesting their immediate intervention to ensure that the sport remains part of the 2022 edition.
 
 TOI has a copy of the letters.
 
 
 
 “Shooting sport has been a part of the Olympics and CWG since 1896 and 1966 respectively and has been held without any break in the Olympics from 1932 and in CWG from 1974. With the recent success of Indian shooters at the world stage, a large number of youngsters are taking up shooting as a competitive sport and aspiring for excellence at the international level. I am sure that this would be the position in a number of countries,” Rathore wrote.
 
 “Dropping the sport from the CWG, 2022 would come as a major setback to the large number of athletes in these countries who would be preparing for this competition and also the sport loving public who have watched and enjoyed this sport over so many Commonwealth and Olympic Games. I am, therefore, soliciting your kind intervention in the matter to retain shooting as a sport in the CWG 2022, Birmingham,” the minister added.
 
 However, in a letter written by CGF CEO David Grevemberg in February this year, he had made it clear that the Federation’s stand is final and binding on all participating Commonwealth nations to exclude shooting from the 2022 CWG programme. Now, it’s up to the host nation to consider the request, in consultation with the CGF.
 
 Despite the concerns raised by shooters the world over, CGF has informed that the status of shooting was always that of an “optional sport” after a decision in this regard was made during the 2015 CGF General Assembly and later in 2016 when the new CGF constitution was approved. In his letter to the Commonwealth Games Associations (CGAs) in February - in India’s case the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) - Grevemberg had said the decision wasn’t solely taken by the CGF, but the “entire commonwealth of nations” after considering all other optional sports carefully.
 
