PATNA: The venue for ‘jaimala’ of RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s son Tej Pratap Yadav and former minister Chandrika Rai’s daughter Aishwarya Rai at Bihar Veterinary College ground on Saturday looked more like that for a ‘raila’ (big rally), leading to a virtual “food riot” at around 10.30pm.

 
 Soon after Tej and Aishwarya exchanged garlands, hordes of people, believed to be RJD supporters, entered the VVIP pavilion and ransacked the food counters, chairs, crockery and cutlery as they felt entitled to the VIP reception as ‘baraatis’. Ice cream stalls and salad counters with 20 types of foreign fruits bore the brunt of the annoyed revellers. People were seen running with ice cream bricks, fruits and plates in their hands. Even some RJD workers were seen running with sticks to chase away the ‘intruders’. The only saving grace was that the bride and groom’s families and the VIPs had left the venue.
 
  
  
 An RJD man told TOI on Sunday that a rumour had spread that tastier food items were in the VVIP pavilion.
  
  
 The ‘vandalism’ exposed the lack of preparedness for the grand wedding. It also raised question over Lalu’s younger son   as he had formed committees of RJD functionaries to look after the arrangements.
  
  
 RJD leaders admitted lack of management for the mega ceremony, which was attended by at least 20,000 people.
 
 “Such a lack of discipline is common in social functions of Lalu’s family. The coordinators and organizing committee members were nowhere seen after the ‘jaimala’ started,” another RJD functionary said and added, “Apart from thousands of invitees, tens of hundreds of local youths, mostly mischief mongers, had also come for free food. In fact, they were involved in the vandalism.”
 
 Political observers claimed the incident also revived the infamous memories associated with a couple of marriages in Lalu’s family. Around 50 cars and pieces of new furniture were taken away from showrooms in Patna for the wedding function of Lalu’s eldest daughter Misa Bharti in December 1999.
 
 JD(U) was quick to target Lalu and his family. “The incident showed the original traits and culture of RJD and its workers. If Lalu and his family are not able to control their own ‘rowdy’ workers, how can they claim to govern a state,” JD (U) spokesperson Neeraj Kumar said, adding Lalu should have avoided making his son’s wedding a political event.
 
 
 
 
 Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and his sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra did not attend Tej’s wedding even though his sisters Raj Lakshmi Yadav and Ragini Yadav had personally invited Sonia Gandhi for the event. Rahul, however, had extended his good wishes over the phone to Lalu and his family on Saturday afternoon. “Rahul had called   and talked to Lalu ji and Rabri ji as well. He said he could not make it to the wedding due to engagements related to Karnataka elections,” a close aide of Tejashwi told TOI. Bihar Congress’s in charge Shaktisinh Gohil and the party’s officiating president of the state Kaukab Quadri had met Lalu on Saturday evening to extend their wishes.
 
 
