GURUGRAM: To make registration of birth and death a simple process, the   on Monday announced, Gurugrammers can now apply for the same through the corporation’s website. 

 A software has been developed by the civic body to help residents submit an application online for the required certificate. The officials at the MCG office informed TOI that an applicant can now log on to the website, click on the birth/death registration icon and fill up the required details for which he/she wants a certificate issued. 
 
 With this move, civic body officials feel that the applicants can have a relaxed experience while filing for the certificate as earlier they had to wait for long hours in a queue to apply for for the same at the MCG office. 
 
 “Residents will highly benefit through online process as they will no longer have to visit the office for getting the certificates,” said MCG commissioner V Umashankar. 
 
 In case there are any issues with the application, it will be communicated to the applicant through an SMS. Once the certificate is ready, it will be sent to the applicant’s registered address through speed post.
 
 Talking about the same, medical officer Dr Ashish Singla said, the facility of online registration, till now, was available only for deliveries taking place at civil hospital. “As the facility is now available for all, civic authority will be able to maintain an online database of number of births and deaths occurring in the city in a given period of time,” Singla said. 
 
 The step has left the residents a satisfied lot as several claimed, it would act as a boon for them. “The online system will benefit us for sure. Many times, professionals have to take a day off to get registration work done as it used to take at least 6 to 7 hours to submit application. Just last month I had to face a tough time at the MCG office to get my newborn child’s registration done,” said Bhupinder Singh, a resident of Sector 56.
 
 Recently, the corporation has also enable online payment of property tax payments and building plan approval. Online processes further help the officials in cutting down the chances of corruption. 
 
 
