NAGPUR: On January 2, the city traffic police led by then deputy commissioner of police   launched a drive against autorickshaws plying without meter. On the very first day, the traffic police acted swiftly and caught around 2,669 autorickshaw drivers for violating the norm.

 The traffic police had made it mandatory for autorickshaws to ply by meter from January 2 as they wanted to focus on three major places — main railway station, Ajni railway station and MSRTC bus stop in  . But the drive lasted only for a day.
 
 Due to the traffic police’s casual approach, the autorickshaw drivers have gone back to the old habit of charging exorbitantly.
 
 At different places, team TOI found that not a single auto driver was ready to ply by meter. Team TOI visited many places like outside the railway station near Jai Stambh Square, east gate of the railway station, Ajni railway station, central bus stand (MSRTC) in Ganeshpeth, GMCH Square, Rani Jhansi Square, and   and found numerous auto rickshaws plying on the roads without following the meter rates, with the drivers charging fares from passengers as per their will.
 
 As per rules, while issuing permits, the first condition for autorickshaw drivers is to ply by meter. In fact, they are also supposed to paste the rate list on their three-wheelers. “But none of the autorickshaw driver neither adhere to rate lists nor charge fares according to meter readings,” transport activists said.
 
 As per the fare chart, autorickshaw drivers can charge Rs14 for first kilometre and Rs12 for every kilometre thereafter. However, these directives have been confined to papers only as no serious effort is made by the authorities to implement them.
 
 Activists also blamed the traffic police and regional transport office for this. “Their approach towards autorickshaw drivers to follow the rules is very lethargic,” they said, adding that the passengers were paying the price for no fault of theirs, while the auto drivers continued to take them for a ride.
 
 DCP (traffic)   S, who took over the charge from Pardeshi, assured of action against autorickshaws plying without meter.
 
 
 
