AHMEDABAD: For Gujaratis, it might be a typical summer day, but a large section of people from other parts of the country, who now call this city home, is set to usher in their New Year. 

 While the Punjabi community celebrated the harvest festival of Baisakhi on Saturday, Tamils in the city are gearing up for Puthandu, the Assamese community is preparing for Bihu celebrations, Bengalis look forward to wish Nabo Barsho to their loved ones on Poila Baishakh and Malayalis are set to celebrate Vishu, their New Year.
 
 “Traditionally, Baisakhi is a harvest festival and is celebrated by offering prayers at Gurudwara or temples and then preparing halwa as an offering, after which the harvest is cut. In Ahmedabad, community members visit temples or Gurudwara and prepare halwa at home. The traditional langar feast is also offered at Gurudwara, which is accompanied by community gatherings,” said Vivek Dhiman, a resident of Bopal.
 
 Assamese, too, celebrated Rongali Bihu, greeting the new year with feasts and festivities. Manoj Borah, resident of Prahladnagar, said, “Bihu is the harvest festival and the one on Sunday is Rongali Bihu, which is marked as the New Year. We adorn ourselves in new clothes, offer prayers and also prepare traditional delicacies including pitha, Jalpan (sticky/ flattened rice with curd and jaggery), and a variety of vegetables, among others. What I miss the most is the sense of belonging as here everyone celebrates alone and there is hardly any community gathering.”
 
 Vishu is observed on the first day of ‘Medam’ month after the solar cycle of the luni-solar Hindu calendar and the celebrations are often done locally yet with elaborate preparations. “A thaali is prepared and the day begins by looking at the thaali and offering prayers. The day is spent meeting and greeting loved ones,” said K M Ramachandran, of Ahmedabad Kerala Samajam.
 
 The Bengali community has organized a gathering to bring in local cultural flavours from Bengal. “We’ve organized a cultural programme where dance performances on Rabindra Sangeet will be organized by members. That apart, a community dinner with traditional Bengali delicacies including Radha Vallabhi, Baigan Bhaja, Roshogulla, among others will be there,” said K S Adhikari of Bengal Cultural Association.
 
 Food and traditional delicacies are an integral part of any New Year celebration. “We’ve been staying in   for years, and while there are hardly any traditional rituals we follow, mother usually offers prayers her way and prepares some lip-smacking traditional dishes such as Pachadi (a dip) and Payasam (rice pudding), which we look forward to and relish with delight. Celebration means spending time with my family,” said Ranjana Iyer, a resident of Prahladnagar.
 
 
