JAIPUR: In March last year, the CEO of the   ( ) met members of the NGO, Centre for Equity Studies (CES), to plan a 'recovery shelter' under the 'Scheme for Shelter for the Urban Homeless'. A year has passed, and nothing has been done to take the project forward. A formal proposal was submitted in June 2017, seeking Rs 50,000 per month for the centre. It was agreed to convert the homeless shelter at Jhalana Doongri into a recovery shelter to house 50 people.  , state representative of CES, has been repeatedly reminding authorities. "We would like to put on record that due to lack of proper recovery shelter, we have witnessed several deaths of the homeless despite the best efforts of our team," she wrote in her reminder on March 16. 

 The CES has been treating the homeless on the streets for over a year. A recovery shelter would help those suffering from TB or broken bone to recover and return to work. Otherwise, a  , for instance, left to fend for himself, might be forced to work and infect others in the workplace. A patient recovering from a fracture, in the absence of home and loved ones, may suffer from malnutrition and other problems too.
 
  Ashok Khandelwal, who is serving as a commissioner of the   for the homeless, said, "We conducted a survey in 2015 and found that there were about 16,000 homeless people in Jaipur. Of these, nearly 67% were migrants from other states or from other districts of the state. 
 
 The state has 300 shelters for the homeless, but not one of these can cater to people recovering from sickness." In its proposal submitted last year, the CES said it works to promote access to healthcare and basic services for the homeless. "Several discussions with different groups of homeless suggest that personal cleanliness is an important issue. Most of them don't take a bath for a period ranging from three days to as long as three months due to lack of bathing facility and opportunity cost.
 
  Many reported that to take a bath they have to shell out Rs 10-20," the proposal said. The NGO runs facilities for the homeless in Delhi, Patna and Hyderabad. The street medicine programme run by CES - treating patients on the street - has helped over 6,000 people in Jaipur in the past year. Ravi Jain, the CEO of JMC, did not reply to calls despite repeated attempts. 
 
 
