PATIALA: A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed on Tuesday in the presence of Chief Minister Captain   to pave the way for the establishment of   ( ) in Patiala.

 
 The MoU, which has been signed between   (MRSPTU), Bathinda and   (PSCAC), Patiala, seeks to create synergies between the two for the creation of PSAEC as a Constituent College of the MRSPTU, Bathinda. It was inked by Secretary Civil Aviation-cum-Chairman, Executive Committee,   Tejveer Singh and Vice Chancellor of MRSPTU Dr.  . 
 
 Speaking on the occasion, Chief Minister assured of total support for the initiative to develop the proposed institute as one of the leading aeronautical engineering colleges in the country. He said that this college adjacent to the Patiala Aviation Club would enable the students to secure sufficient practical knowledge and flying experience.
 
 The agreement will further facilitate joint mutual development collaboration for the development of various training facilities at  , particularly PSAEC, to provide academic, administrative and financial support to the college for achieving its objectives of the establishment. 
 
 The MoU will enable optimal utilisation of all resources with the aim of providing the best education and training environment to the students of PSAEC, Punjab Aircraft Maintenance Engineering College and Patiala Aviation Club. It is envisaged for them to achieve the stature of a consulting institute for benchmarking standards in the aviation industry, besides developing an aviation training hub at Patiala.
 
 Briefing the Chief Minister Dr Ishar said the upcoming College would start functioning from the current academic session with the commencement of B.Tech (Aeronautical) and B.Tech (Aerospace) classes from the first week of August as the curriculum for both the courses had already been finalised by the University. He said the admission notice would be issued shortly, following which the entire process of admission would be completed by May end. 
 
 
