Laying pipeline from   and 24X7 water supply are two crucial projects the residents are looking forward to this year, but the possibility of their completion in the next 12 months is bleak.

 
 Yet, the projects are likely to get a major push from the civic administration. The Bhama Askhed pipeline project, aimed at bringing 2 TMC additional water to the city, is at the implementation stage. The 24X7 water supply project — expected to ensure equitable supply across the city — is still on the paper. The civic administration is yet to finalise tenders for it.
 
 
 A source in the   ( ) said besides the administration’s push, the fate of both the projects was dependent on the political stance of leaders. A senior corporator said, “Both the projects did not move ahead at the expected speed in 2017 because of political reservations. Chief minister   is monitoring them.”
 
 
 The 24x7 water supply project suffered a setback in 2017 when the administration had to cancel the tenders because the cost was “inflated”. The tendering process has been resumed and is expected to get over in the next couple of months. The project cost was brought down by almost Rs 400 crore after revision. The work includes laying of over 2,200km new pipeline across the city and installation of water meters.
 
 
 The Bhama Akshed project, expected to meet the water requirement of over 10 lakh population staying in the city’s eastern parts, has been facing a strong opposition from the local villagers over the compensation package. In the past six months, the project work was halted on a couple of occasions. Repeated obstructions hampered its progress and compelled the administration to give extensions.
 
 
 The local Shiv Sean leaders were also opposed to it. But the project moved after meetings with chief minister and guardian minister  .
 
 
 The project was expected to be over by July 2018. Its revised deadline is December 2018.
 
 
 A source in PMC said the city was facing a water crisis over the past few years for the increased population. The civic activists and water experts, on the other hand, stressed loopholes in water supply and transportation network, and poor infrastructure triggered the crisis.
 
