NAGPUR: After a lull for one year, the illegal fishing mafia in   Tiger Reserve has started to raise its ugly head again. On Saturday evening, 24 fishermen were arrested for fishing in   reservoir.

 This is perhaps one of the biggest actions against illegal fishermen entering Pench since the last when illegal fishing was brought under control barring some sporadic incidents by couple of them.
 
 Of the 24 accused, 21 have been remanded to 15-day magisterial custody (MCR) while 3 have been remanded to forest custody (FCR) by Ramtek judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) SC Tayade. Forest officials have seized eight bicycles and several nets.
 
 During interrogation, the fishermen tried to allegedly mislead the officials by claiming that they entered Pench to recover their sunken boats during action against them. They said they wanted to use the same boats elsewhere.
 
 “The fishermen were caught by special tiger protection force (STPF) boat patrolling across the backwaters. Their movement was seen in   in compartment number 528 of   beat in East Pench range,” said field director Ravikiran Govekar.
 
 The STPF patrolling party coordinated with staff of East Pench and detained all the fishermen. They were brought to Sillari range forest office for further enquiry.
 
 Anti-poaching unit assistant conservator of forests (ACF) Geeta Nannaware, East Pench RFO Atul Deokar, RFOs Mangesh Tate, Mohan Chati and Prashant Humane were also part of the operation which lasted till late night.
 
 Nannaware said all the accused have been booked under various sections of Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972, Indian Forest Act (IFA) 1927 and other legal provisions.
 
 According to sources, after arrest, forest officials were under pressure to release all the accused from New Totladoh and   villages. The family members of offenders created scenes. 
 
 However, the process to book the accused passed off peacefully with the help from Deolapar police, who rushed to Sillari and was stationed there till Sunday morning.
 
 Govekar said Pench authorities have been fighting the chronic problem of fishing for over three decades. Last year, action against them forced fishermen to leave their den in Golpahadi.
 
 “Several of their boats were destroyed and nets were collected from Pench waters. There is, however, constant pressure from them as huge financial stakes are involved,” said Govekar.
 
 Considering the threat, the field staff was asked to remain alert. STPF regular patrolling was planned systematically and coordination meetings were also held with MP field director. Fishermen are not able to use the seized boats but may try to lift out old boats dumped in water. Most of the boats have been destroyed so far. 
 
 “We need to consistently act to weed out this menace completely and also look into alternative livelihood options for the villagers as it is socio-economic issue. We are trying this through eco-development activities,” said Govekar.
 
 Last year, at least 16 fishermen involved in removing tiger body parts are on the run despite high court rejecting their anticipatory bail.
 
 
