MUMBAI: The 60-year-old secretary of a   building will have to serve a week in jail after his conviction for felling four trees in the compound without permission was upheld by the sessions court. 

  was found guilty under the provisions of the   (Urban Areas) Protection and Preservation of Trees Act for completely chopping the jamun, coconut, guava and gulmohar trees in 2014 when he only had permission to trim them.
 
 Dismissing his appeal against a December 2016 magistrate court order, the sessions court on Thursday said, "Evidence is sufficient to hold that accused caused four trees to be felled. Considering the nature of offence and the evidence, the metropolitan magistrate awarded proper sentence, i.e., fine of Rs 2,000 and undergo simple imprisonment for one week," the court said.
 
 One of the three residents of the building,   (CHS), deposed in the case and said that on August 20, 2014, the accused had asked him and other residents of the society to remove the vehicles as he wanted to cut the branches of the tree. The witness told the court that labourers hired for cutting the trees were present. He further stated that when he enquired with the accused, he was told that permission was received to cut the branches. The witness told the court that the labourers first cut the branches and later began to chop off the tree trunks. He said that the following day, he went to the   office to inquire about the permission. When it was found that there was no such permission, his complaint was noted by the BMC. Another resident who had also complained to the BMC also came before the court. The witness said that on the evening of August 20, 2014, he found that the trees were cut completely. The witness said that he was aware that the civic body had granted permission for trimming. 
 
 The then assistant superintendent of gardens for the ward also deposed and said that after the two residents complained, he, tree officers and a garden supervisor, visited the building and found that four trees were chopped to the ground level. He further stated that he asked the junior tree officer to lodge a police complaint. The witness said that the secretary had applied for permission for only trimming the four trees citing danger to life and property. The garden supervisor also deposed about the cut trees.
 
 Citing the evidence of the five witnesses, the court said, "Evidence of three persons in the society is supported by two public servants. They are independent persons. They had no reason to depose false that the trees were cut."
 
 In his appeal submitted before the sessions court in 2017, Kamble said the conviction was bad in law and that there was no notice given to him before initiation of prosecution. He further stated that the court ought to have considered the fact that the two residents who complained against him to the BMC are not the members of the society and they unnecessarily raise disputes. He further submitted that the society had received permission on December 21, 2013, for pruning of overgrown branches of trees. 
 
 
