Kolkata: Mention “Guadalajara” to a football aficionado, and it’ll inevitably conjure up memories of icons Pele and Bobby Moore swapping jerseys after Brazil beat England 1-0 en route to winning the 1970 Mexico World Cup. For Mehuli Ghosh in particular and followers of Indian   in general, the Mexican city, famous for its tequila, will now be remembered for another achievement.

 The 17-year-old talent from the state has already been hailed as the future of Indian shooting by none other than iconic shooter Abhinav Bindra, India’s only individual Olympic gold medallist. Mentored by Joydeep Karmakar, another Olympic shooter, Mehuli justified her promise and potential last week when she took her first senior debut in the ISSF World Cup — held in Guadalajara last week — by storm, breaking the women’s 10m air rifle world record in the junior category, winning two bronze medals and helping the country finish on top of the medals tally.
 
 But Mehuli’s immediate challenge lies in the upcoming Commonwealth Games, which starts in Gold Coast next month. And her ultimate dream is what her mentor Joydeep himself failed to realize in the 2012 London Games — an Olympic gold.
 
 She may have set her sights firmly on a difficult target, but back home, Mehuli’s like any other teenager. Never a bookworm, she loves hanging out with friends, helping her mother in the kitchen and dining out with her family. “I hate studying books,” she says, but points out that she is a voracious consumer of music — “anything instrumental, rock... and I love Justin Beiber.”
 
 The “normal teenager” melts away the moment she has a rifle in her hands, and the transformation from the ordinary to the extraordinary is quite remarkable. “When I hold a rifle, it gives me a different identity. It gives me the strength to create and visualize my world my way,” she says.
 
 Mentor Joydeep is all praise for her mental make-up. “She has the killer instinct. Shooting is a mind game and her mental fortitude is pretty remarkable, although she has a long way to go,” says the man who narrowly missed an Olympic medal, finishing 4th in the London Games.
 
 Mehuli is making waves but she has just stepped on the road to stardom. Her brush with national-level shooting is just two years old, but it has already been quite a fascinating journey.
 
 She announced her arrival on the horizon of Indian shooting with nine medals, including two golds, in the junior category at the Pune National Championships, 2016. In the next nationals, held in Thiruvananthapuram last December, she grabbed a whopping eight golds. And her graph continued to rise with a gold-winning performance at the Asian Championship in Japan, which also earned her a Youth Olympic Games berth and led to her senior debut in the Guadalajara World Cup.
 
 At the beginning, however, shooting was nowhere on Mehuli’s mind. As a growing child in Hooghly’s Baidyabati, she wanted to be a swimmer. But her dream drowned soon after a fellow wannabe swimmer suffered an accident at a local swimming pool. Her mother, Mitali, then took her to dancing class. “I wanted to be a classical dancer, but could not pursue it. So I wished to fulfil that dream through my daughter and got her admitted to a kathak class, little realizing that she had set her sights elsewhere,” Mitali reminisces.
 
 The shooting dream took shape — believe it or not — from watching the popular TV serial ‘CID’, specifically the gun-toting antics of ACP Pradyuman and team. “I used to mimic the way the ACP and his team carried the guns and shot,” Mehuli says. “Even when my parents took me to a movie, I was interested in only those scenes where a hero or a villain would shoot. So, one day, I asked my father to get me admitted to the local shooting club.” 
 
 “Her request took us by surprise,” admits father Nemai. “We all thought that it would be a child’s fleeting obsession. We realize how wrong we were.”
 
 Her entry into shooting was not smooth. She was often guilty of wayward shooting, drawing rebuke from her trainers and fellow shooters. All this made her slip into trauma, even as she thought her ambition of being a shooter was going up in smoke. As fate would have it, Joydeep entered her life in 2015.
 
 Through a common friend, her parents came to know about the Olympian, who had started his academy at the SAI complex ground after the London Olympics. One morning in August three years ago, they knocked on the doors of Joydeep’s academy.
 
 He wasn’t impressed. “When I first saw her, honestly speaking, she was awful. She gave me no impression of becoming a shooter,” recalls Joydeep.
 
 Then, how did the transformation happen? Joydeep gives an interesting insight into the process.
 
 “I took it as a gamble, even a personal challenge,” he says. “She was in really bad shape, physically and mentally, because of what had happened at the local club. My first challenge was to make her mentally strong. I kept her away from all sorts of shooting and instead made her go through various forms of mental training. From 2016 onwards, I realized the stage was set for her to take the gun and aim for glory. And she quickly found her rhythm, thanks to her determination and killer instinct. A new Mehuli Ghosh was born, with a new dream in her eyes.”
 
 For the 17-year-old, the dream is big. But she would hit bullseye only if, as she says, she realizes it “with an Olympic gold”.
 
 
