NAGPUR: Five students from Podar International School, Besa, were injured after a speeding truck rammed into a school van parked outside the school on Saturday morning. Two students sustained severe injuries while others were sent home after first aid.

 The incident occurred when the students were getting off the van parked on a private parking lot adjacent to the school. “The truck was coming from  . The driver lost control and dashed the vehicle against a tree before ramming it into the van. It was a lucky escape for the students as the truck had slowed down after hitting the tree,” said an eye witness Rajesh Chaurey. 
 
 Six students were present in the van. Satwik Shuklya from Std I, Sukhrup Channe and Swara Jangil from Std VII, Aadi Wagh, Tanish Upri and Nawansh Wankhede from Std V were rushed to a nearby hospital by the school staff. 
 
 Dr Sudhir Aghaw, who checked the injured students, said, “Wagh sustained a fracture in the wrist and another in the back. He also had a cut on his cheek for which stitches were given. Channe received injuries on the head. After providing first aid, we referred them to other doctors for further treatment.”
 
 As the news about the accident spread, parents started gathering in front of the school gate. They blamed the school management for negligence in providing safety measures around the school. Devidas Katrunge, a parent, said, “The management should have constructed speed-breakers or erected warning boards in front of the school.”
 
 School principal   said that the school has taken all safety measures. “Students get down from the vans in the parking lot and enter school from an area which is barricaded. This has been done to ensure safety of the students. The truck veered into the parking lot and hit the stationary van,” she said. 
 
 Guardian minister Chandrashekhar   visited the spot two hours after the accident. Aggrieved parents and locals shouted slogans against Bawankule for “failure to widen the narrow road”. “Two vehicles cannot ply simultaneously on this road. This is also the reason why the truck went off the road. The road has been under construction since last four years. It is negligence on part of the government,” said Mukesh Ingankar, a parent.
 
 Senior PI of Hudkeshwar police station   said, “We have nabbed the truck driver Maruti Kawle and booked him for negligence in driving under relevant sections.”
 
 
