Mysuru:   has evolved into an egalitarian space where the   and   have merged, said Prof. Yeshwanth Dongre, director of the PME Board, University of Mysore (UoM) here on Monday.

 Dongre, who was participating a one-day conference on ‘Social Media for Digital and Social Inclusion: Technological and Economic Implication’ organised by the Centrefor Study of Social Inclusion and Inclusive Policy at the BR Ambedkar Research Centre, said that people in the mainstream and those on the   came together on one platform.
 
 Distinguishing the impact that two different technologies –   and social media – had had on the society, Dongre said, “While television glued people to their chairs, social media has allowed people to communicate and build social connectivity.” Citing Robert Putnam’s book, ‘Bowling Alone: Decline of Social Capital in America’, Dongre said, “One of the reasons social capital in America declined was television. With social media, although people stay glued to their mobile phones, they stay connected with other people. While one technology led to isolation, one has led to a more inclusive culture.”
 
 Calling on the audience to embrace technology and turn into active participants on cyberspace, Dongre added, “Social media has not been effectively used by youngsters. They should know what platform to be used, and to what extent. With greater social capital comes more  .”
 
 Meanwhile, Prof. Mahesh Chandra Guru said that social media platforms could be considered a form of alternative media in the new millennium. “Now, media is by the people, for the people and of the people. We cannot prosper without social media. It’s become an indispensable part of our culture,” Chandra Guru said.
 
 Calling for a renewed focus on digital literacy, prof. Chandra Guru added, “It’s admirable that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is thinking of Digital Media. We need to become citizens and netizens at the same time.”
 
 Echoing observations made by Prof. Dongre, Chandra Guru said, “Social media can be compared to Basavanna’s ‘Anubhava Mantapa’. Universities should prioritise digital skill development.”
 
 Professor YS Sidde Gowda of the department of social works and DC Nanjunda were present.
 
 
