It isn’t unusual for an 82-year-old to have 10 children but what if all of them are girls? 

 “Helen, Jessy, Stella, Maggi, Mercy, Joyce, Dalsy…,” Pauline smiles as she counts her 10 daughters on her fingers, sitting at her home at Thevara, Kochi. She is a proud mother today, for all 10 of her daughters are highly educated and well employed. The eldest, Helen, is 62 years old and a retired government employee. “I am basically from Mulavukad. My husband is from Thevara but I don’t remember exactly the year I moved here. But I remember that my eldest daughter was born one year after our wedding. In one and a half years, I was pregnant again. But I lost her at the eighth month of pregnancy. Or else, I would have had eleven girls. We wanted our house full of children,” she says, fondly looking at the picture of her husband John Simendi, who passed away 29 years ago. In 14 years, Pauline delivered 11 children, the youngest one being Sherly, 48, a school teacher at Alappuzha. 
 
  
  
 
 
 And according to Pauline, her prosperity only increased with each child she gave birth to. “Their daddy had built a huge house, so that our children could live well. Our children are God’s gift to us,” she says, adding that her husband’s sister Aplonia, who was unmarried, was a strong support and helped her raise the children. Dalsy, the ninth daughter, says, “Though the house was big, all of us used to sleep in the same room. Our aunt would make big mattresses specially for us, using palm leaves.”
 
 
  
  
 
 The household used to wake up at 5.30 am and while the girls went to church for mass, Pauline and Aplonia prepared breakfast and lunch for the family. They had eight cows and early morning, the girls would drink a glass of milk each, after milking the cows. “Cooking food for the 10 of them was a Herculean task in itself,” Pauline recalls. By the time their aunt got the children ready for school, she would have readied breakfast and 10 lunch boxes. “My children were never fussy about food, so I was able to manage,” she says. However, Helen, her eldest daughter says that her mom used to make sure that each one of them got their favourite food for lunch.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 So, was their father like Mammootty in the film Hitler? “Never!” says Helen with a laugh, adding that he was ‘Daddy cool’ rather. “He wanted us to be independent and smart, to study well and get good jobs. He would always tell us, ‘You should pursue what you want and get things done by yourselves,” she says, explaining that all of them got government jobs by writing tests. “Even for the exams, we used to go alone,” she says. Pauline interrupts, saying, “If they were born now, I would have died of tension. The scenario has changed, girls are not safe anymore and I am worried about my granddaughters now.” 
 
 
 The family hit a financial low when the man of the house met with an accident. Helen recollects, “I was doing degree second year. Daddy lost his memory following a head injury. We became totally bankrupt. But we stood together and with the support of church, survived.”
 
 However, finding grooms for the ten girls was never a headache, recollects Pauline. “I never worried about how to raise my girls. They were never into any mischiefs. Nine of my girls are married while one became a nun. All of them are highly educated and employed, so those who came forward to marry them never demanded dowry. They only saw my smart daughters who were disciplined as well,” Pauline says. 
 
  
  
 
 
 Quiz her if she ever wanted a son, and she replies with a naughty smile, “I have to admit that I had a secret desire for a boy child after my third daughter was born. But neither my husband nor me ever had any regrets about having 10 daughters,” she says, asking us to accompany her to her bedroom. “My girls take care of me like a queen. Look at my room, it is overflowing with gifts. I have a television to watch my favourite channels, my cupboard is full of saris and all my daughters are a call away. I am 10 times luckier than any other mother,” she says. All 10 daughters who are settled in different parts of the world meet up once in a year, either on Christmas or on the feast day of their church.
 
 
