CHANDIGARH: A day after chief minister   Singh’s son-in-law   was named in the Oriental Bank of Commerce (OBC) fraud involving  , Amarinder on Monday claimed that the latter was a minority shareholder with a mere 12.5% share in the company and was being unnecessarily dragged into the controversy. He flayed attempts to “politicize” the case with “unsubstantiated charges.”

 Amarinder said as per information available with him, the alleged fraud, which was at the centre of the case, had been the subject matter of the proceedings before the debts recovery tribunal (DRT) in a recovery suit filed by the bank. It was settled between the company and the OBC, and was recorded by DRT Lucknow by way of a consent order dated March 16, 2015, he added.
 
 “The fact is that   had actually been litigating against Simbhaoli Sugars, for his rights as director and shareholder, before the National Company Law Tribunal, as he had been kept out of all major decisions and the working of the company, which was reportedly a matter of court record,” said Amarinder.
 
 According to the complaint, a loan of Rs 148.60 crore which was given to Simbhaoli Sugars for financing 5,762 sugarcane farmers was diverted by the company for its own needs. The CBI has registered a case against  , its chairman and managing director Gurmit Singh Mann and deputy managing director Gurpal Singh, who is Amarinder’s son-in-law.
 
 “It is evident that the issue is being deliberately politicized, with the farming community also being unnecessarily dragged into the whole affair. The farming community in the country is already a highly beleaguered lot,” said Amarinder, adding that he condemned any attempt to pull them into the case for political gain.
 
 “In the circumstances, and given these facts, the political attack on my son-in-law was ludicrous. Even a cursory check of the case background would have revealed that Gurpal had no role in the entire affair,” he added.
 
 Amarinder said he had been told that Gurpal Singh, who was a law-abiding citizen, had even refused to sign any documents to give any personal guarantee against the loan in question, forcing the OBC to amend the loan document on February 12, 2015, thus waiving off the requirement of Gurpal’s signature on any guarantee documents.
 
 Political parties, including the  , were targeting Gurpal only because of the OBC director’s personal relationship with him, said Amarinder, accusing his rivals of making baseless allegations “without bothering to verify the facts, only to secure political mileage”.
 
 “All the vital and true facts would emerge before the judicial courts when the CBI case is taken up by them,” said Amarinder. He said he urged the political parties and media to stop indulging in baseless statements and reporting.
 
 AAP seeks probe
 
 AAP leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira said the case was in a series of instances where influential people had used their political power to defraud the banks. He said there should be proper investigation in such cases.
 
 
