CHANDIGARH: Work came to a standstill at all district courts in Tricity, and at the Punjab and Haryana high court, on Monday as lawyers refused to work in protest against the Panchkula police making lawyer   an accused in a Rs 80-crore extortion case. 

 Narwana is the counsel of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, and had defended him in a rape case in which the Sirsa-based preacher was convicted in September 2017. The extortion case has been registered against 40 functionaries of the dera, and Narwana is one of them.
 
 Following an assurance from Haryana CM   and Panchkula police commissioner A S Chawla, lawyers have decided to lift the strike for now. The president of Chandigarh District Bar Association, Ravinder  , said they would take a final call on March 11, when members of the Bar Council of India will hold a meeting. “ We are protesting as Panchkula police falsely implicated Narwana and two others; we want his name removed from the FIR as he has nothing to do with the case,” he said.
 
 Though police have not removed Narwana’s name from the FIR, a letter issued by commissioner Chawla said nothing vital was found prima facie against him. “If subsequently some clinching evidence comes against him, investigation is directed to inform the president of Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association, Anmol Rattan Sidhu, before proceeding further,” said the commissioner’s letter.
 
 The commissioner issued the letter after a delegation of the high court bar association, led by Sidhu, spoke to the DGP and the commissioner.
 
 A co-chairperson of the Bar Council of India, Amit Rana, said the timing of the FIR was “questionable”. “The FIR should have been registered in Punjab, not Panchkula, because thgat is where the alleged extortion took place,” he said.
 
 Led by chairperson Vijender Singh Ahlawat, a delegation of Punjab and Haryana State Bar Council also met the CM to request him to ask the police cancel the FIR. Haryana IGP (CID)   was also present at the meeting.
 
 Litigants unhappy
 
 The stir hit work at the courts. A resident of Delhi, T R Verma, who had come for a hearing of a case from Delhi, said this was the third time in a month he had travelled to Chandigarh to attend court. “We should have been informed at least. This is unfair and unprofessional,” he said. Another such person at the Chandigarh courts,   resident Balbir Singh, had come with his daughter, but had to leave disappointed. “We thought our case would be heard on priority today, but there was no work at all. Now we have to go back in this bad weather, with no certainty about when will our case will be heard next,” he said.
 
 
