MUMBAI: Angel investor   was arrested on Friday for alleged stalking and   of a Delhi woman in early 2017, reports V Naryan. He was released on bail hours later. 

 The woman had moved the   last April accusing Murthy of making objectionable, derogatory and sexual remarks and obscene signs. Later, the commission received four other similar complaints against the co-founder of Seedfund, a venture capital fund for early stage investment in startups. The   sent the complaints to the Maharashtra DGP in November and later lodged a complaint with Khar police.
 
  attaching copies of objectionable WhatsApp messages and derogatory and sexual remarks made against women by Murthy. Khar police filed an FIR against the Bandra (W) resident on December 29 after a preliminary probe.
 
 Khar police said the targeted women, who are from Mumbai, Delhi and other parts of the country, include a government officer, a journalist, and an HR professional. Some of the experiences that the women shared ranged from inappropriate electronic messages and verbal advances to physical grabbing. "So far five women have come forward with complaints against Murthy. It is suspected that more will come forward now. Statements of all the women will be recorded," said a Khar police officer.
 
 Khar police senior inspector Ramchandra Jadhav confirmed Murthy's arrest and said he had been booked for stalking (IPC section 354-D), sexual harassment (section 509) and publishing or transmitting obscene material (section 67, IT Act). A person convicted first time under IPC section 354 (D) faces up to three years jail, and the term may go up to five years for subsequent convictions.
 
 When TOI sent a text to Murthy seeking his version, he replied via WhatsApp: "I received anticipatory bail in this case some time ago. I am told its a procedural technical arrest and I have already been released on the bail granted earlier. This is exactly the same issue on which I had filed a case earlier and where the   had already passed an interim order in my favour and against the complainant back in April 2017. I believe this is an attempt to counter-sue. I will fight this too in court to defend my reputation to the fullest of my ability." 
 
 One of the victims, an author, alleged that Murthy had touched her inappropriately at a cafe in Mumbai during a business meeting in 2004. Another woman complained that she had a similar experience at the same cafe around six months before that. "NCW has also, along with the complaint, attached various media reports during the year wherein many other women have made similar complaints against Murthy," a police officer said.
 
 Prior to starting Seedfund with Pravin Gandhi and Bharati Jacob in 2006, Murthy had started Passionfund which too focused on early stage startups. Over the years, Murthy's role at Seedfund has seen drastic drop in significance but he still is seen as one of its founding partners. Some of the companies where Murthy made investments via Seedfund include CareerLauncher, Geodesic, Doolally, RedBus, CarWale, SabKaDentist, Voonik, Chumbak among others.
 
 Murthy, who has spent significant time in the world of advertising, also started Pinstorm-a marketing consulting startup-in 2004. While the company has largely been battling its own challenges, last year a group of shareholders at Pinstorm, who account for 10% of shareholding of the company, had sent a legal notice to Murthy accusing him of mismanaging the company funds and not keeping them abreast of company's financial situation. The notice demanded Murthy buy back the shares from these shareholders to make up for the losses made by irregular financial activities in the company. One of the shareholders had told TOI that Murthy changed the share capital of the company without informing the shareholders of the company.
 
 After the notice was sent to Murthy, he promised to select shareholders saying he will buy back shares from them but it has not happened yet, one of the shareholders in the company said. Murthy has been one of the fiercest critiques of Indian startup poster boy Flipkart and also claims to have played a role in starting MTV in India and later its rival Channel V. 
 
 
