AJMER:   police on Thursday arrested 10 persons from two groups for disturbing peace in the town. The market opened on Thursday but foreign tourists started leaving the place. On Wednesday, markets were shut down after tension brewed between two different groups.

 Police called a meeting of both groups and asked to maintain peace in the town. Police also arrested five persons from both the groups who were alleged for disturbing peace. “One of the groups demanded to withdraw the cases filed by police on the day of   last Monday and we discussed the matter,” said police official.
 
 On the request of police, markets in the town were opened in the morning, but still police force is deputed to control any situation. Sources said that police had registered criminal cases against 45 people for burning shops as well as disrupting government duty and now one of the group wanted police to withdraw those cases.
 
 Meanwhile, numbers of devotees on Thursday declined and foreign tourists also started leaving the town, “Usually foreign tourists leave Pushkar in the month of May but even than about 500 to 600 remain here for summers,” said   a hotel owner.
 
 According to   source, who keep record of foreign tourists in, on Thursday there were 190 foreign tourists left and in last five days about 3 hundred tourists left the town. “Foreign tourists left in the town are mostly those who have reservations and now wanted to complete their holidays in Pushkar” added another hotel owner.
 
 Hotel owners also accept that tension in the town has hampers the business, “It gives negative image of the town that is peaceful and tourists avoid such tension” added another hotel owner.
 
 Business sector of Pushkar agree that during summers, foreign tourists avoid this town and went mostly to   but still Israelis and some of the European tourists remain in Pushkar.
 
 The group which was leaving on Thursday said that they are moving to Goa and accept that tension and violence made them uneasy. They avoid commenting anything on the tension that remained on last Monday and yesterday and said Pushkar is a peaceful town.
 
 According to police, vigilance has been increased and they are trying to restore normalcy in Pushkar. Tourism and religious abode are the main source of income of this holy town.
 
 
 
