We all have a detox plan for everything—from our health to our smart phones. Have you ever wondered if you can detox your   if you are facing a lot of negativity in the relationship? In fact, it is quite possible to do so. Dr. Wendy Walsh, in her book 
 , have offered many solutions to purge a toxic relationship or love life. Here are a few ways to get rid of negativity and make a new beginning this year:

 
 
 
 We have a plan our career, finances and even travel. Why not have a plan for a better relationship? There is no harm in being practical. In fact, it can be a good exercise if your love life is going through a bad phase because a plan will help both the parties understand each other better. For example, you can figure out what you want from the relationship, your desires and expectations. Sharing these with your   will make things transparent and lower the chances of setting wrong expectations.
 
 
 
 
 A lot of people indulge in a physical relationship because they might believe that having sex will ignite the missing romantic sparks in the relationship. “Don’t fall for the oversexed-relationship marketing around you. Instead, navigate the subjects of sex and love in a way that squares with your interior voice,” wrote Walsh.
 
 
 
 
 To keep hoping for a better future while letting your present suffer is not a wise thing to do. Picture this—you met a person who wants to be friends-with-benefits but keeps promising you of a dream-like romance that might happen in the future. It’s easy to fall for such a promise, isn’t it? Try to face the reality and stop indulging in wishful thinking about a future that might never happen. 
 
 
 
 
 If all the above-mentioned ways fail to usher in positivity, maybe it’s time to rethink about the relationship? We all might have come across people (partners) who make us feel inferior. Being in a relationship with such a person can be quite a task because we end up spending our energy and emotions to keep them happy without even realising how our own needs and emotions take a back seat. More importantly, when we are in a relationship with the 'wrong' person, we end up avoiding the ‘right’ person. Best way to deal with such a situation is by being honest and breaking our ties (in an amicable way) with the person.
 
 
 Remember, it's never too late to start afresh. If things aren't working, do not let the baggage of a past year bog you down. Let 2018 be a better and positive year for everyone!
 
 
