Coimbatore/Tirupur: Industrialists have welcomed the   government’s decision to exempt consignment with value of goods not exceeding Rs 1 lakh and a list of notified goods from e-way bill within the state. 

 
 While the interstate e-way bill was implemented from April 1 across the country, intrastate e-way bill is in place only in 27 states and Union territories. Eight states, including Tamil Nadu, will implement intrastate e-way bill from Saturday.
 
 On Thursday, the state government issued a notification stating that no e-way bill is required to be generated for the transport of consignment with value of goods not exceeding Rs 1 lakh and a list of goods notified by it. 
 
 Agriculture implements like cultivators, ploughs, cutters, solar power pump sets; food products like appalam, pappad, vathal; fresh fruits and vegetables; textile products like hank yarns; and job work and services related to yarn, fabric and garments are among the items exempted from the e-way bill.
 
 This move was welcomed by industrialists across the board. “The state government has accepted all our demands including increasing the exemption limit from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh and exempting a lot of agricultural and textile tools and raw material,” said president of   (CODISSIA) V Sundaram. 
 
 “This move will protect most of job working industry and workers. Many small workshops will also enjoy the benefits of the exemption,” he said.
 
 The speed at which problems faced during implementation of e-way bills for interstate movement of goods were solved has also given industrialists confidence. “While smooth implementation on Saturday will depend on the portal’s competence and bandwidth speed, even if there are some teething troubles it will get sorted out,” said Sundaram. 
 
 “From April 1, when the e-way bill was introduced for interstate movement of goods, a lot of streamlining has taken place,” said president of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, Vanitha Mohan. 
 
 “There will be some hiccups in the first few days, but we are confident that it will be ironed out,” she added.
 
 Industrialists said it is the smaller industries who will get disturbed by this implementation. “There might be a week’s delay in deliveries by suppliers and small industries because they need some time to prepare themselves for this rule,” senior member of the  . “The bigger industries by and large can cope up with these changes easily,” he said.
 
 “It will be a big relief for the textile industry as the e-way bill has been exempted for consignments of yarns, fabrics and garments, which were meant for job work and services,” said general secretary of Tirupur Exporters’ Association TR Vijayakumar.
 
 Auditors have welcomed the implementation of e-way bill for interstate movement of goods as it would prevent tax evasion under GST. 
 
 “This is critical for GST to become fully operational and for loose ends to be tied up,” said chartered accountant  . 
 
 “The resistance is from small and medium industries mainly due to the trouble they faced during implementation of the e-way bill due to network issues, bandwidth problems and the portal not being able to handle the load,” he said. 
 
 “But it should not become an excuse for sales tax inspectors to harass industrialists,” he added.
 
 
