GOURANGA NAGAR: Hours after re-poll started for two seats under the Jyangra Hatiara (II) gram panchayat, a few   workers were busy removing party flags. They boycotted polls after BJP candidate   was arrested by the New Town police on Tuesday afternoon. With many in hiding since Tuesday evening, Gauranga Nagar on Wednesday morning wore a deserted look except for a few curious faces peeping out of windows.

 
 No one could be found at BJP booths except a few handwritten posters gummed to the wall. “We are boycotting the poll,” they read. Men could hardly be seen on the streets, and the women huddled in small groups on lanes. “No one is here. Everyone is worried about police action. They arrested 29 locals,” said a woman.
 
 Mandal was taken in custody after locals staged a protest in front of New Town police station on Tuesday. No one responded despite repeated knocks on the door of his Gouranga Nagar residence. “They are not here.   is arrested and we don’t know where his wife is,” said a next-door neighbour. Ajit’s wife  , a two-time gram panchayat member from the area, could be reached on phone, though. “Many of us went into hiding since they (  supporters) started threatening each of us. Our candidate is in custody and cops are arresting our party workers. Who would protect us if we resist now. So, we decided to boycott the repoll,” she said.
 
 Three gram panchayat seats (237, 226 and 231) had traditionally been BJP strongholds in a Trinamool-dominated area. Last year, BJP president Amit Shah held a meeting with locals around 400 metres from the booth. On Wednesday, most workers went into hiding to evade police action on them.
 
 According to locals, trouble started brewing from Monday morning when “outsiders” reached Nabinchandra Free Primary School. They tried to capture booths at nearby Ramkrishna pally and   before they reached the school. Voters queuing up at the booth ran for cover when they started hurling bombs. “We tried to stop them from entering the booth. But we were outnumbered,” said  , husband of BJP candidate Shyamali Sarkar. While locals would not name anyone, they claimed the “outsiders” were led by two local leaders who run syndicates in Rajarhat.
 
 Trinamool workers were prompt to deny all allegations. “They had hatched a plan to capture booths in the nearby polling premises and hired outsiders who broke ballot boxes and threw ballot papers in the pond,” said  , pradhan of the Trinamoolrun Jyangra Hatiara (II) gram panchayat. “BJP had a traditional vote-bank in this pocket, but their support is eroding fast. We apprehended violence this time after the party leaders started instigating people during public meetings,” he said. Trinamool workers claimed that at least three workers sustained injury as they tried to resist miscreants from looting booths.
 
 More than 200 police personnel were deployed to man the entire area on Wednesday. Queues in front of the booths moved at normal pace and by1.30pm, 51% polling was complete. The total poll percentage was 70%.
 
