AMARAVATI: The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) sleuths arrested three smugglers transporting   in trains from the North-East to Chennai in the past three days and seized 9.648 kilos of yellow metal being smuggled into the country from Myanmar.

 In the latest catch, DRI sleuths of Vizag intercepted a passenger travelling from Guwahati to Chennai in DBRG MS Express at Rajahmundry railway station on Wednesday morning and seized 2.496 kilos of gold. Like in the previous two incidents, the gold was molten into specific shape to be concealed in a tool.
 
 “We have found that the smuggler was carrying a few tool boxes that contain impact screw drivers. The screw drivers felt heavier and when we opened them, gold was found inside. The smugglers poured molten gold into the hallow space of the screw drivers and sealed them,” a DRI official said.
 
 DRI sleuths recovered five gold cylinders weighing 2.496 kilos and the market value of the seized gold is ?77.39 lakh. The person carrying the gold is from a North East Indian state.
 
 Previously on February 4, DRI,   team intercepted another smuggler from North East India at Nellore railway station when he was travelling in Guwahati MS Express. The passenger was travelling from Guwahati to   in Chennai and DRI sleuths recovered 4.658 kilos of gold worth ?1.43 crore concealed in electric and coal stoves.
 
 On the same day, DRI’s Bhubaneswar team intercepted a Chennai based smuggler at   railway station in Odisha when he was travelling from Guwahati to Chennai in   train. DRI team seized 2.494 kilos of gold biscuits concealed in by the smuggler in his vest and shoes.
 
 DRI sources said that the Chennai based smugglers gang are using ‘carriers’ from Chennai and North East Indian states to ferry gold smuggled from across the Indo-Myanmar border into the country. “The carriers are paid ?25,000 per trip by the operators based in Chennai. The operators also take care of carrier’s food, accommodation and transportation,” a DRI official said.
 
 Since the difference of gold price between Indian and Myanmar markets is only about ?10,000, DRI sleuths are trying to catch the Indian smuggling racket kingpins to find out about the origin of gold. “The carriers were unaware of the kingpins as they get to know about the receiver only at destination railway stations,” a DRI source revealed.
 
