GURUGRAM: More than three weeks have passed since   ( ) sought forest clearance from the district administration to build a new   at  . 

 However, TOI has learnt the district administration has not yet forwarded the letter seeking clearance to the forest department and is instead considering the possibility of giving alternative land to NHAI for the toll plaza.
 
 The   toll plaza is supposed to be shifted to Sehrawan, around 15km down NH-8. But residents of villages in Sehrawan and environmental activists have been opposing the construction of the toll plaza at the proposed site, claiming wild animals from the Aravalis often pass through the stretch.
 
 The NHAI didn’t apply to the forest department directly as it wanted the district administration to give them full clearance before they get the land. After getting the clearance, the toll plaza could be made in three months, said the NHAI officials. “There has been no development in the land being given to us to construct the new toll plaza. The matter is with the deputy commissioner,” said an NHAI official.
 
 When contacted, Gurgaon’s deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said, “The district administration is following up the matter with the forest department and papers are being prepared. We are committed to resolving the issue of congestion due to a toll plaza inside the city. We will consider the possibility of giving a new site to NHAI after a decision on the forest clearance is taken by the respective department.”
 
 The district administration has granted 65 acres to NHAI to shift the Kherki Daula toll. While five acres are in Sehrawan, the remaining land is spread across   villages. 
 
 The forest department has said it is waiting for the district administration to send them the letter asking for clearance to build the toll plaza at Sehrawan. “I haven’t got any letter for the clearance of Sehrawan toll. When we receive the letter, there is a set procedure which will be followed,” said Vinod Kumar, conservator of forest (wildlife), Gurgaon circle. “If there is diversion of forest land, then we need to take permission from the Union government. It may take around two months to get the clearance from them. The problem will only arise if there is forest diversion and the administration wants to develop something there. They will need to take permission under the Forest Conservation Act. We cannot ask the administration to give us this case, until they apply for forest clearance,” he added.
 
 
