BHOPAL: Chief minister   on Saturday announced major sops for farmers, including an export agency to help them sell their produce outside the country and bonus of Rs 100 per quintal for gram, lentil and mustard in addition to  . The CM had removed these three crops from   on Friday. 

 As promised, the government will transfer benefit of bonus and MSP on wheat and paddy to farmers’ accounts on April 16, the CM said. The state will incur a financial liability of Rs 4,350 crore due to this, he added. “We are committed to paying the benefits to farmers and will transfer Rs 200 per quintal of previous year and Rs 265 per quintal of the difference on MSP directly to the bank account of farmers on April 16,”   announced in a radio and television address.
 
 Under Mukhya Mantri Krishi Samriddhi Yojana (MMKSY), the government will set up a 24-hour call centre — 0755- 2540500 — for farmers to redress their complaints. The state is also rolling out Mukhya Mantri Krishi Yuva Udyami Yojana for young entrepreneurs in agriculture. The government will help 30,000 youngsters get bank loans under this scheme and provide 15% subsidy on the amount drawn. Entrepreneurs will also get 7% subsidy on interest on the loan.
 
 “The time has come for value addition to agriculture business. We will provide training to young entrepreneurs who are ready to launch their own enterprise in agriculture produce. We will also set up an export agency to help sell farm produce outside the country. We will prepare a mechanism with the help of the central government to fulfil this plan,” said Chouhan.
 
 Calls on the farmer helpline will be registered and monitored from the chief minister’s residence and officials will get instructions through a video conference, possibly on March 27, said the chief minister. Garlic and onion will get Bhavantar benefits. To help opium farmers in Mandsaur, Neemuch and Ratlam financially, the government will buy poppy husk (doda chura) from them and destroy it, the CM reiterated. Crops at MSP will be procured in all 257 Mandis from April 10. He asked farmers to register for it. Those who are registered under Bhavantar will be shifted to MSP, he said, adding that the government will procure garlic at Rs 3,200 per quintal and onion at Rs 8 per kg.
 
 Chouhan said that during his recent meeting with Union commerce minister  , he strongly registered his protest over refusal of GI tag to Basmati rice grown in MP, where the production is over Rs 3,000 crore a year.
 
 MP Govt's expenditure on farmers :
 
 Claims on crop insurance: Rs 6000 crore 
 
 Drought relief: Rs 4500 crore
 
 Difference of MSP on wheat & paddy: Rs 2600 crore
 
 Bhavantar scheme: Rs 2000 crore
 
 Procurement of poppy husk: Rs 1900 crore 
 
 Bonus on wheat & paddy of 2017: Rs 1750 crore 
 
 Total; Rs 18750 cr
 
 
