Trichy: As the open-air gymnasium launched by Trichy Corporation near Allithurai main road is drawing positive feedback from residents, mostly senior citizens, the local body is planning to open a similar facility in two more spots near Ariyamangalam and Cantonment.

 Civic body as a part of promoting health and fitness infrastructure in the city in January 2018 launched the city’s first open-air gymnasium at an estimated cost of Rs 25 lakh on Allithurai Main Road near Amma Canteen equipped with seven machines that can be operated without electricity. After receiving positive response from public of Ramalinga Nagar and Kumaran Nagar vicinity, corporation said that two more viable spots have been identified to establish open-air gyms.
 
 Though youths prefer high powered and air-conditioned gyms for workouts, senior citizens felt the need of a proper outdoor infrastructure to stay fit. As the open-air gyms can be accessed without much efforts as most of the equipment are simple for elderly people to operate, local body said that old people are the targeted audience of these gyms. “Thus far we had been restricting our physical outdoor activities to walking but here we are doing mild workouts,” said D Ramalingam, 63, a resident of Bharathi Nagar.
 
 Meanwhile, as the cleanliness initiative taken by the citizens under the banner ‘Citizen for Uyyakondan’ along with corporation workers on the northern bank of the 1,000-years-old Uyyakondan canal has gained momentum with preliminary works for walking track underway, organisers said that an   in Uyyakondan bank would be of great use to public. As an outcome of the weeks-long efforts in utilising the available space that was once invaded by weeds and served as a den for anti-social elements, about 600-700 metres of the northern canal is now free of garbage and vegetation.
 
 Officials with PWD said that permission has been provided to the volunteers for clearing shrubs and to make use of vacant lands for installing a walking track without affecting the canal. “With money collected from locals, we have been fencing the bank of Uyyakondan canal. Soon walking track and lights would be established,” one of the organisers said. When contacted, corporation commissioner N Ravichandran said, “We have plans to expand open-air gyms to two more spots. Uyyakondan bank appears to be a feasible spot for establishing open-air gymnasium. Corporation would certainly consider the demand.”
 
 
