PUDUCHERRY: The Red Earth Riding School (RERS) and the Equestrian Promotion Private Limited will hold the 18th annual Pondicherry equestrian challenge from January 25 to 28 on the school premises at  . 

 The championship this year includes regional equestrian league (REL) rounds, and the horses and riders, who qualify for three REL rounds, will participate in the national equestrian championships. 
 
 “The event aims to raise the standard of equestrian sports and to provide a platform for a new level of competition in India. High-calibre international and national riders from clubs all over South India will compete in the event,” said RERS founder and the organiser of the championship,  . 
 
 The championship will kick-start with a combination of dressage and show-jumping events on the first day in which the riders and horses will demonstrate their precision and finesse by executing complicated dressage moves. REL qualifying rounds will be held on January 26 followed by grand prix jumping events. Clubs from Puducherry, Chennai, Bengaluru, Ambur, Coimbatore and Ootty have enrolled for the championships. 
 
 The four-day event is likely to attract a massive crowd of spectators in the morning (7am to 9.30am) and afternoon sessions (4pm to 6pm). 
 
 Lieutenant governor   and a host of other prominent people will attend the event. A three-star Federation   (FEI) judge from Estonia, Eva-Maria Vent-Warmington, will judge the performances of the riders and horses. FEI representative Kishore Futnani and equestrian veteran and active supporter of the sports Venkatachalam Muthiah will oversee the jumping events. 
 
 RERS, established in 2000 with just two horses, has steadily grown to 28 horses, including India’s only Andalusian stallions and mares. The facilities at the school include two 20 X 60m dressage arenas, an Olympic-size jumping arena, multiple warm-up arenas and stables and paddocks to accommodate 30 horses. The school deploys trainers and instructors from India, Germany, France, Spain, England, Austria, Belgium, Switzerland and the  , among others. RERS is a part of South India Equestrian Association, which is affiliated to the Equestrian Federation of India. 
 
 Equestrian is the only sport in which humans and animals compete together. In each event, the aim is to create a harmonious partnership between the riders and horses. It is the only Olympic sport in which men and women compete on equal terms. Since 1972, a woman has won a medal in the individual dressage at every Olympic Games and in 1988 and 2000, women claimed all the individual dressage medals.
 
 
