LUCKNOW: Chief minister Aditya Nath   reached   on Friday but stayed away from the glitz and glamour of Gorakhpur   and instead chose to visit the homeless and destitute in night shelters and distributed blankets to them.

 He is also likely to stay away from the concluding ceremony on Saturday.
 
 Even as his government was facing criticism for organizing the Gorakhpur Mahotsava on a grand scale with public money, Yogi cancelled his planned visit to the festival on Friday and also ordered shifting of its concluding function from Gorakhdham Peeth to the university ground where it was inaugurated.
 
 The way he refused to attend the function where he was chief guest and then shifted the venue of the concluding event left senior officers in a tizzy.
 
 The CM is reportedly quite annoyed with the organizers for giving a glitzy and glamorous touch to the Mahotsava and reportedly called senior officials of the administration and tourism department to the temple, seeking explanation over “including the ugly elements of Saifai show” in the Gorakhpur event.
 
 By keeping himself completely away from the festival and shifting the venue of the closing ceremony, the chief minister has expressed his displeasure with the arrangements.
 
 
 
 
 The inauguration was itself caught in a controversy when singer   alleged that the Mahotsav theme song had been copied and threatened to move the court. At the eleventh hour, the organizers decided not to play the theme song. With the official theme song also not played, the three-day festival seems to have lost its sheen.
 
 Yogi was to be the chief guest on the second day, but despite reaching Gorakhpur at 4pm, he maintained a safe distance from the gala. Officials involved in the arrangements of the show got ruffled on getting the message that the CM had cancelled on them. While Yogi has been showing his dislike for pomp and show by spending new and year and   with forest dwellers, the opposition has been targeting him for his government's plan to host Gorakhpur Mahotsava.
 
 
