JAIPUR: Road accidents have become common for various reasons on the B2 bypass (B2B). But lax enforcement of rules and speeding vehicles have been blamed for mishaps on this national highway bypass which is now part of the city.

 A journey through this wide road reveals the problems that plague it. At a crossing Near  , bikers sans helmets were seen jumping the red light even as a speeding car tried to overtake vehicles with scant regard for safety of other motorists.The dented bumpers of cars are telling examples of what a formidable task it is to drive through B2B.
 
 Even regular mishaps have not forced daredevils to follow rules and wear helmets, or even stop at the red light. TOI saw many bikers jumping red lights at a dreadfully high speed. The chaos at this crossing is enough proof for why accidents occur. Even parents driving their children home from schools do not wear helmets. “It is rare to come across a youngster wearing a helmet. A few days ago a youth was injured after he was hit by a bus,” said  , a local resident. “There are many broken dividers on this stretch. People try to cross the road by driving through these risky dividers. As a result they are hit by speeding vehicles,” said  , a resident.
 
 A little ahead on the stretch, you can find broken pieces of glass dumped on the middle of the road which results trucks halting at the spot followed by serpentine queues. The drivers face other perils too. There are many badly repaired potholes which often causes vehicles to lose their balance.
 
 A traffic constable was seen removing the posters from a speed limit signage. “An interceptor vehicle will be deployed here to catch speeding trucks. But to issue a challan we have to ensure that speed limit sign board is visible,” the constable said. Sadly, that is not the case. Many speed sign boards here are defaced by posters of politicians and budding student leaders.
 
 On December 2012, a 22-year-old youth Damodar   was killed while he was crossing the road through a broken divider. The death angered residents who staged a dharna and demanded action.
 
 Years have passed since Sharma’s death, but the situation on the ground has not changed much. The residents keep flouting the norms while trucks refuse to follow the speed limit.
 
