NEW DELHI: With a close range view of the   - a six-team tournament organised by the   - the former India captain   has seen some exciting cricket. From the crop of young Mumbai cricketers involved in the inaugural edition of the tournament., Vengsarkar has identified 22-year-old pace bowler   as one to watch out for. 

 
 
 Deshpande, who has played eight first-class matches and a five T20s for Mumbai, has taken 3/26 and 1/13 for ARCS Andheri who have won one and lost one in the Mumbai T20 League. Writing for TOI, Vengsarkar singled out Deshpande’s talent and hoped that with guidance from former India bowler  , he could mature. 
 
 
 
 
 “I like the way pacer Tushar Deshpande has bowled in each outing so far. Here is a talent that needs to be nurtured. He has the pace, variety, the right attitude for a fast bowler and above all, a big heart. A complete package that could be fine-tuned by the likes of Zaheer Khan whose presence as one of the mentors could prove fruitful for Tushar. Zaheer is a master of pace and swing and has immense experience of bowling at the international level,” wrote the former Mumbai captain and one-time chief selector for the BCCI. 
 
 Mumbai T20 League 
 
 
 The other bowler who left an impression on Vengsarkar was left-arm spinner Vaibhav Bhoir. 
 
 “He was accurate and intelligent as he tied the batsmen down with his immaculate line and length which is quite a rare sight in this format,” wrote Vengsarkar, who played 116 Tests and 129 ODIs. 
 
 “He varied his length effectively as the batsmen tried to have a go at him, as most batsmen normally do when spinners are asked to bowl. I feel Surya [Kumar] Yadav used him very well, for in T20, the spinners, more often than not, find themselves at the receiving end. However, if they are used at the right time, they could prove to be the match-winners too. 
 
 “Though he is into his late 20s, Vaibhav would do well to take a leaf out of the great former Indian left-arm spinner Dilip Doshi who made his international debut at the age of 32 and went on to grab more than 100 Test match wickets.”
 
 Vengsarkar also completed the 23-year-old Akash Parkar, who has featured in five first-class, five T20 and two List A games for Mumbai. “Besides these two, Akash Parkar, Mumbai’s premier all-rounder looked quite impressive. Here is a bowler who is capable of not only getting the breakthroughs, he is more than handy with the bat too. His team, I am sure would look up to him to deliver in the remaining matches,” wrote the 61-year-old. 
 
 
