 directorial ' ' released today amidst high expectations, featuring   and   in lead roles. Devi Sri Prasad's music and Rathnavelu's cinematography also had high expectations placed on them from day one.

 
 
 
 Set in the 1980s, the first half of the film sees Ram Charan essay the role of Chitti Babu, a partially deaf individual who's full of life. He runs the motor that water the fields in the village he resides in, Rangasthalam. Beautifully innocent, he remains blissfully ignorant of the atrocities carried out in his village by President garu (Jagapathi Babu).
 
 Things change for better or for worse when his brother Kumar Babu (Aadhi Pinnisetty) returns from Dubai and notices that the village has not progressed at all. Chitti Babu falls in love with the feisty and surprisingly empowered Rama Lakshmi (Samantha) who relies on her common sense and sixth class education to get by in life. While the villagers seem to be as blissfully ignorant and happy as Chitti Babu on the surface, things get to a point where they can't ignore their circumstances too. What happens when one of them dares to go against the president and strive for change is what 'Rangasthalam' is all about.
 
 
 
 
 The first half also sees   as Rangammatta, Chitti Babu's best friend for all means and purposes. Set in the 80s, the story also follows the theme of movies from the era. However, the music, cinematography, acting make it seem refreshing. Ram Charan and Samantha are beautifully rustic in their roles and the character of Chitti Babu is the undoubtedly the highlight of the first half.
 
 Ram Charan plays the childishly innocent character with perfection and its refreshing to see such a character in an industry where toxic masculinity is usually celebrated on screen. It's also refreshing to see a non-romantic, platonic friendship on screen between opposing sexes. 
 The first half has been an entertaining one with some memorable scenes and three songs. It remains to be seen how the second half will fare as things seem to be getting serious. 
 
 
 
 
 
