Senior actor   had high hopes of reviving the Children’s Film Society, India (CFSI) when he assumed its chairmanship. However, three years down the line and three months before completing his tenure, Khanna has put in his papers. He rues, “As a cause, children’s entertainment is close to my heart and I have been working towards it for the past 17 years. I have played  , who became a superhero for kids. I joined   hoping to improve the situation, as the children in our country are deprived of good films; they have only saas-bahu sagas and nonsensical subjects at their disposal. I thought I would be able to make a difference. However, I have been fighting in vain to raise funds for children’s films since two years. We have made more than 260 films since its inception in 1955, but they haven’t seen a theatrical release. The higher-ups want to stick to the old routine of making children’s films for the festival circuit or for screening in schools. Now, that defeats the purpose, as a theatrical release will ensure more footfalls. It also spreads more awareness about CFSI. I have approached many ministers, but all my requests have fallen on deaf ears.”

 He adds, “Presently, we have four films ready for release, but the I&B Ministry asked me not to approach distributors. Though I got a distributor on board for a tennis-based film, I was asked to float a tender, which would have delayed the release. In the end, I was told to release it on Doordarshan. Who will buy the film after it has aired on a national channel?”
 
 The actor has already conveyed his decision to quit to the I&B Ministry and is awaiting a response from them. “Rather than waiting helplessly for funds, I want to step down and work for the welfare of children. It’s not possible to do what I wish to, within a budget of Rs 10 crores a year. My advice to my successor is that poori plate saja kar rakhi hai with some great scripts approved by the script committee. All they have to do is release the films. I have already put in my papers and am awaiting a reply. There is no response yet,” he signs off.
 
