A lot has been written about how safe (or rather unsafe) Delhi's public transport is for women. Whether it is the local buses, autos, or even cabs, women have faced harassment across all modes of transport. However, what is not discussed often is that how women professionals working as drivers in these male-dominated fields fare. On International  , we bring to you, the stories of some women from the capital, who take the different modes of Delhi's public transport daily, albeit from behind the steering wheel instead of from the passenger's seat.

  
 
 
  
   , the only woman driver in DTC
 
  Every day, thousands take buses plying on Route 543A from Anand Vihar ISBT to Kapashera Border. One of those buses is driven by Vankadarath Saritha, the only woman driver in DTC's fleet. Saritha moved to Delhi in 2011 after having driven an auto for five years in Telangana. "I came here to do something different. I started by driving luxury cars in a job arranged by an NGO. In 2015, I was selected by the DTC to drive for their fleet, making me the first woman to do so," she says.
 
  
  
 
  Saritha is quick to set straight the record about people's notion that women aren't good drivers. She says, "I know some people say that women aren't good drivers, particularly when it comes to a bus. But I have won multiple awards for having the least number of breakdowns. In the entire fleet of 4,500 drivers, I was once adjudged number one. Nobody can question my ability as a driver."
 
  
  
 
  The 33-year-old, who considers Kiran Bedi as her idol, says that a lot of attention comes her way when she's on duty. "At times, people realise it’s a woman driver when they are alighting. Tab smile karte hain, surprise hote hain," she says. But at times, the attention is unwanted. However, Saritha says she can tolerate that if it means she can contribute to a safer environment for women. "Women say that they don't feel safe in buses. But if I'm there as the driver, they might be more comfortable. If more   join, it can help change the scene in Delhi," she concludes.
 
  
 
  
   , auto-driver in Delhi 
 
  While there are several female cabbies in Delhi, Sunita Chaudhary has remained the only female auto driver for over 15 years now. Sunita, who hails from Mawana in UP, started driving an auto in 2003. "I ran away from home and came to Delhi to earn. When I started, I had to sleep on pavements because I had nowhere to go. People might say driving an auto is no respectable job for a woman, but it is what has helped me rent a house and lead a respectable life in Delhi," says Sunita, who stays in Khirki village in south Delhi.
 
  
  
 
 Driving an auto on Delhi's roads for a decade and a half, Sunita has seen the cross-section of the capital’s society, ranging from the romeo to the swindler. But the 40-year-old has developed responses to all sorts of jibes and barbs. "I see all kinds of passengers. There are those who appreciate what I do, those who profess their love in the first meeting, and even those who tell me I am too good to be driving an auto and they would buy me a car. Over the years, I have learnt to take the compliments and ignore the nonsense. Haan, agar koi zyada badtameezi karta hai, toh uski pitaai bhi hoti hai," she says.
 
  
  
 
  In a world where auto drivers frequently get into verbal and physical arguments with each other over fare and parking, Sunita has had to voluntarily become more 'manly'. She tells us, "I cut my long hair, left the salwar-suit in favour of jeans and shirts, and developed manly mannerisms. I had to do all this to look formidable, so that nobody thinks they can take advantage of me. It is not easy to survive as an auto driver in Delhi, particularly for a woman. Maybe that is why other women haven't come forward in all these years."
 
  
 
  
  Sarita and Sunita, cab drivers in Delhi
 
  
  Bharti, cab driver in Delhi
 
 The story of how most of Delhi's female cabbies started driving cabs is very similar – to either step into the role of their family's sole earner, or to come to terms with being a single woman with no financial support in Delhi. 25-year-old Saket resident   is an example. "I was married at 18 and widowed at 20. I had a four-month-old kid at that time. My in-laws refused to keep me and my father himself had an accident where he hurt his legs and couldn't work. So I had to step up as the breadwinner of my family. I hadn't completed my graduation and this was the only thing I could do," she tells us.
 
  
  
 
 Sunita Koli, a Jahangirpuri resident who has been driving a cab for three years, tells us, "When I started, even my family said roaming on the roads is no job for a girl. They said, 'Do din ka shauk hai, khatam ho jaayega'." The drivers say that even their male counterparts get aggressive during arguments, in an attempt to dominate them. "Unko lagta hai ladki hai, daraenge toh argue nahi karegi," says Sunita. And of course, since they are involved in a 'manly' profession, their families are all too familiar with the barbs of 'who will marry her now?' Bharti, a cab driver from north Delhi, says, "Neighbours and acquaintances often tell my parents, 'Isko roko. Yeh koi kaam hai ladkiyon ke liye? Shaadi kaise hogi?' But as long as my parents support me, what anybody else says doesn't matter."
 
  
  
 
  The common prejudice that women aren't good drivers means that despite being trained professionals, the female cabbies in Delhi are time and again questioned about their abilities. Sarita recounts an incident from not so long ago. "I picked up a passenger from the airport at around midnight and the man promptly asked, 'Madam, aap safely toh le jaoge na mujhe?' I felt bad that he was questioning my driving ability even though I am a professional. So I just said, 'Sir, aadhi raat ko main ek ladki aapke saath ja rahi hoon. Aap batao, will I be safe with you?' He was so embarrassed he didn't say anything after that," she says.
 
 
 
  
 
