To kids the name   may not ring a bell, but try the Gruffalo. The monster with ‘terrible teeth in his terrible jaws’ is a habitué of most bedsides today. Though best known for 
  the bestselling British author has written 204 books, including 
  and 
 . Once a busker, then a songwriter and author, she talks to us on the eve of her India tour, during which she will be reading and performing her stories.

 
 I was already doing a lot of school visits, but gradually I started being invited to bigger venues, book festivals and theatres, so now my life is one of acting and putting on shows rather than of sitting and quietly writing. But of course it’s not just 
  that I like to dramatise: while we’re in India we’ll also be acting out 
  and several other stories and songs.
 
 
 The main change is the way supermarkets and Amazon now sell most of the books, and a lot of independent booksellers, and even chains, have gone under. I have an excellent local bookseller that manages to keep going.
 
 
 Actually I can’t take credit for the 
  book, which was devised by an enterprising editor, but I do enjoy cooking. Where I live there is a monthly farmers’ market and my favourite thing is buying fresh local produce and then devising recipes to bring out the flavours. I did once do an Indian cookery course, and I’m looking forward to broadening my repertoire during my visit this month.
 
 
 It’s just something I find most children really enjoy doing, and I think that for those that aren’t natural bookworms it can be a great way of bringing the stories to life and helping them identify with the characters.
 
 
 Well, at one stage there seemed to be a lot of books about children with problems, in which a slightly glib and unrealistic solution was offered, e.g. “So-and-so was shy. She found it hard to make friends... but then someone or other suggested, “Try smiling!” — And it worked!” You couldn’t help feeling that the idea was for the anxious parent to read the story three times a day to their own child in order to cure them of a similar affliction.
 
 
 
 Luckily most of 
  products are quite tasteful, though sometimes I baulk when there are too many pink glittery things for girls and dull brown ones for boys. Also I’m always a little wary in case the merchandise starts to feature the film characters rather than the book ones.
 
