Nagpur: In a bid to encourage the start-up culture in city, Lemon School of Entrepreneurship (LSE) had organized an admission counselling seminar for its new course Entrepreneurship Accelerator Program (EAP) on Besa campus on Friday. 

 A number of inquisitive youngsters walked in with their queries with a hope to seek solutions in converting their ideas into reality. They interacted with experts who helped them widen their horizons about entrepreneurship.
 
 Entrepreneurship Accelerator Program is a three-month fast-track course designed for struggling entrepreneurs, professionals, college passouts and dropouts, traditional business owners or anyone with a desire and intellect to become an entrepreneur or scale-up their existing business or idea to greater heights, said Nupur Mukherjee, manager (operations). 
 
 A very common error every entrepreneur makes during early days is jumping to the conclusions, over-enthusiasm and falling in love with an idea. These self-errors of which they are completely unaware leads to inconsistent, inefficient, unplanned and unprioritized execution. This often results in disappointment, failure or losing interest in the idea. Mentoring in EAP can prove to be beneficial for minimal flaws in workflow, said experts. 
 
 Lemon has successfully enlightened many young minds since its inception in 2013 and its students are spread over different domains. Popular ideas like ‘Khichadiwala’ restaurant and the first technology start-up of city, ‘Flying Penguins’ were also backed by Lemon. The candidates are also working wonders in the fields of social media, digital marketing, hard-core engineering while many have joined family business and upgraded it to boost profits. 
 
 “Sometimes people come with vague things in mind where they are not sure about executing their seed thought. We explore their ideas and validate them to convert their concepts into venture considering all practical factors,” said Mukesh Ashar, Chair of Behavioural Science at Lemon. 
 
 Recommending business over jobs, Deepak Menaria, Chief Idea Farmer, said, “Entrepreneurship gives you the liberty to choose your work according to your personality. It gives you an opportunity to tackle real life problems of your society and serve the nation as a whole.”
 
 Nagpurians need to shed the layer of hesitation and fear of failures to be an agent of change. The term ‘entrepreneurs’ is being glamorized since a few years but to make any business successful in long term, dedication, perseverance and commitment is utmost important, he said 
 
 
