KOLKATA: The recovery of a  ,   with   from a posh south Kolkata neighbourhood on Friday morning has left cops searching for answers. 

 With the girl unable to speak coherently, the police are yet to piece together what exactly happened. But the torn clothes and scratch marks found on her during preliminary medical examination has led police to suspect that she was possibly raped before being dumped at the doorstep of an apartment complex in  . The girl, a Class IX student and resident of a neigbouring locality, is currently undergoing treatment at MR Bangur Hospital.
 
 According to police, the girl who lived with her maternal uncle (she lost her mother as a toddler and was abandoned by her father), went missing on Thursday evening. The uncle, who works as a driver, raised an alarm when she failed to return home even after 8pm. 
 
 The girl’s family searched for her all night. At 7.10am, a newspaper vendor found her lying unconscious, smeared in blood in an alleyway separating two apartment complexes in Golf Gardens.
 
 The girl’s maternal uncle said, “She would go to school in the morning, return at 4pm and then leave for tuitions and return between 7pm and 7.30pm. That was the routine. But on enquiring with her friends, I came to know that she had not attended school or been to the tuition class. A few girls told me she had been bunking school for a the past couple of days and hanging out with a youth who had introduced himself as a studio technician working in an ad agency. I managed to track down the address of the agency located in Golf Green. On speaking to the employees, I found one of them being evasive and misleading. Thereafter, I approached Jadavpur police station and lodged a missing complaint,” said the maternal uncle.
 
 The girl’s grandfather, the maternal uncle and the aunt were at the police station till 2.30am, after which they returned home. Thereafter, people from her neighbourhood launched a hunt. The search was finally called off around 4.30am. She was finally found lying unconscious at the doorstep of an apartment in Golf Gardens in the morning. The newspaper vendor who spotted her said her salwar kameez was torn. A bag found next to her contained her school dress, shoes and other personal items. The police was alerted and she was taken to MR Bangur Hospital.
 
 Doctors said the girl was responding to treatment but was extremely weak from blood loss. “A six member team – led by surgeon Dr S Basu is monitoring her progress. We are doing everything we can,” said CMOH (South 24-Parganas) Somnath Mukherjee.
 
 Though the girl regained consciousness later in the day, she was unable to speak coherently, apparently due to trauma. She received stitches on her head, forehead, eyebrow and arms. Lalbazar said an investigation has begun but is awaiting the girl’s statement to make headway. CCTV footage from the area is also being scanned for possible clues. Jadavpur police, which will be probing the case, said an FIR is expected to be drawn up by late Friday night.
 
 
