
 The   has time and again impressed upon the need to resolve the   water dispute, which affects Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala and Puducherry, without delay. A three-member bench of the apex court issued directions to the Union of India to constitute a tribunal for adjudication of the dispute in Tamil Nadu Cauvery Neerppasana Vilaiporulgal Vivasayigal Nala Urimai Padhugappu Sangam Vs Union of India and others in 1990.

  
  
 
 After the tribunal was constituted and an interim order passed, Karnataka promulgated an ordinance to nullify the effect of the tribunal’s interim order dated June 25, 1991. The President had to seek the opinion of the Supreme Court under Article 143 of the Constitution. In its clarification in 1993, the Supreme Court used strong words against Karnataka saying the state had presumed that it had superior rights over the Cauvery water and it could deal with it in any manner. The ordinance issued by it was against the basic tenets of the rule of law and that it amounted to taking law into its own hands and an invitation to lawlessness and anarchy. It forebodes evil consequences to the federal structure under the Constitution, it said.
 
 After the Tribunal’s final award on February 5, 2007, it was challenged by all three states. The Supreme Court again condemned Karnataka in the 2016 judgment, and said: "…Unfortunately, Karnataka is flouting the order and, in fact, creating a situation where the majesty of law is dented"
 
 By its final order dated February 16, 2018, the court directed the   to frame a scheme keeping in view that the purpose of framing a scheme is exclusively for implementation of the award. But a day before the expiry of the six-week time, the Centre knocked at the doors of the Supreme Court with an application to clarify whether it was open to frame the scheme and to modify the composition of the board. The only ground raised in the clarification application is divergent views expressed by state governments.
 
 The Supreme Court had entrusted the Centre with the task of framing a scheme, but without performing the obligation, the Centre filed the clarification application. It has not explained why creation of a centrally-managed board with representatives from all three states and Puducherry is not legally and factually possible. The very filing of the application appears to be a  . There is something more than what meets the eye.
 
 On September 30, 2016, the Supreme Court inquired then attorney-general about the constitution of the   to which he responded that it would be constituted on or before October 4, 2016. On October 3, 2016, he prayed for recall/review of earlier orders. It is a million dollar question as to why the Centre, which agreed to constitute a board, had to back out within two days and file such an application to recall earlier orders.
 
 During the final hearing of the appeals, the court said: "The purpose of framing the scheme is exclusively for implementation of the award … It needs no special emphasis to state that the purpose of Section 6A is to act in the manner in which the award determines the allocation and decides the dispute with regard to the allocation or sharing of water. Keeping that in view, we direct that a scheme shall be framed by the central government within a span of six weeks from today…"
 
 It is, therefore, clear that by the categorical finding, the issue raised by the Centre, praying to review and recall the order dated September 20, 2016 to set up a Cauvery Management Board has been finally determined and there is absolutely no scope for re-opening. Such an exercise by the Centre would be contrary to the doctrine of finality of orders.
 
 In ‘N Nagabhushana Vs State of Karnataka’, the Supreme Court said: "The principle of finality of litigation is based on high principles of public policy. In the absence of such a principle, great oppression might result under the colour and pretend of law in as much as there will be no end of litigation and a rich and malicious litigant will succeed in infinitely vexing his opponent by repetitive suits and action."
 
 The prayer in clarification petition filed by the Centre suggests that in reality it wants a review of the final order passed by the Supreme Court. It is pertinent to note none of the state governments, which were parties to the apex court’s judgment, has filed any application to review the court’s direction. In fact, the Centre is not a party to the final award passed by Cauvery Water Dispute Tribunal. 
 
 In 1990, the Supreme Court said that as the guardian of the interest of the people in all the states, the Centre must take steps to set constitutional machinery in motion to avoid feelings of bitterness among people of different states. One hopes that the Centre would fulfill the said confidence reposed in it.
 
 (The writer is senior advocate and former advocate-general of Tamil Nadu)
 
 
