

  
  
 Actress Madhura Naik, who was last seen on 'Tu Sooraj Main Saanjh Piyaaji' two months ago, will enter the TV show, 'Tenali Rama'. She will play the Sri Lankan queen Mun Mun, who will come to meet King Krishnadevraya along with her husband King Jaisurya. She says, “I play an interesting character, who has memory issues. She keeps forgetting her identity. The character will allow me to do comedy, which I really enjoy.”
 
 
 
 
  
  
 After being seen as Meghna in 'Ek Shringaar — Swabhimaan', Sangeita Chauhaan is all set to play another character named Meghna on the TV show, 'Piyaa Albela'. She will play a visually impaired girl. Sangeita tells us, “I play a character, who was sent off to London by Supriyaji (Jyoti Gauba), and has now returned. I have worked with the production house earlier and hence, didn’t bat an eyelid before taking up this role.”
 About playing a character named Meghna again, she says, “It has become like an identity for me on TV and I can’t help but grow attached to the name (smiles).”
 
 
 
  
  
 Apurva Agnihotri, who was last seen in a cameo on 'Meri Durga', will soon join the cast of 'Bepannah'. His entry is touted to spruce up the drama and will lead to a twist in the tale of Zoya (Jennifer Winget) and Aditya (Harshad Chopda). About the character, he says, “I can’t reveal much at this point. All I can say is, it’s an interesting character and something I haven’t done before.” Ask him about him and his wife Shilpa being selective about work, and he says, “I think we are lazy people (laughs), but we are taking up more work now.”
 
 
 
  
  
 Last seen on 'Naamkarann', Nalini Negi will soon enter the show 'Porus', which will also mark her debut in the historical genre. She will be seen as a vishkanya. She says, “Initially, I will be projected as an innocent girl, but it will be revealed later that her motive is to kill Porus.” She adds, “In the beginning, I was nervous as such shows are time-consuming since it’s about elaborate costumes and chaste Hindi. But as an artiste, I have to keep trying and experimenting with my roles. That’s my reason for taking it up.”
 
 
 
 
  
  
 After playing Shumbh in the mythological show 'Mahakaali — Anth Hi Aarambh Hai', Abhaas Mehta is all set to return to the fiction genre with the TV show, 'Tu Sooraj Main Saanjh Piyaji'. He says, “I play a doctor, a character I haven’t played before. I’ve just completed a mythological show and I will always cherish the experience. However, being back on a daily show is always a great feeling.”
 
