CHANDIGARH: More than 5,000 registration certificates (RCs) of vehicles are under scanner of the vigilance department. These RCs returned undelivered from their respective addresses. 

 A vigilance official said they have been scrutinising the RCs which were undelivered from January 2013 to December 2017. Vigilance department had also unearthed the scam of registration of high end vehicles on fake invoices to evade taxes in 2016.
 
 Deepak  , DSP, vigilance department said we are investigating around 5,500 undelivered RCs since 2013. There are possibilities that vehicle owners registered their vehicles on fake addresses and when the RCs were posted to the address mentioned in the form, they were returned undelivered. However, it has come to light that some of the people might have shifted from their addresses and thus, their RCs did not reach them. Vigilance department has been investigating the matter from all angles, said DSP.
 
 During investigation, the vigilance department has also found that some vehicle owners from other cities have registered their vehicles on fake addresses in Chandigarh. When the officials scrutinised registering and licensing authorities’ (RLA) files, they found that more than 5,000 RCs have been lying undelivered with RLA. It had also registered FIR in this case in January 2016 and had also arrested six persons —Vinod Kumar, an RLA employee and Kamaljeet, Hitesh , Ankur, Pankaj Mahajan and  , all of whom were middlemen. Vinod was deputed as a data entry operator at the RLA office in Industrial Area, Phase I.
 
 The officials said the accused used to prepare forged documents like invoices of luxury cars and showed lesser value to save taxes at the time of registration of high-end cars at the RLA. The accused had also used fake documents to get the registration of cars from outside the city. During investigation, it had come to light that the accused had got registered eight high-end cars on a single address in Sector 26.
 
 The vigilance department had also impounded a BMW and a Mercedes car of businessmen of Delhi and Karnal registered on fake invoices showing lesser value of the cars in order to pay less registration fees.
 
 
