CHANDIGARH: More than 52 years after an   officer lost a leg and an eye while cleaning minefields on the China border, the armed forces tribunal (AFT) directed the defence ministry (MoD) to pay him pending dues for war injury pension from the date he was discharged from duty. 

 
 Major  , of  , who is in his mid-70s now, lost a leg and an eye in a mine blast while clearing a minefield on July 11, 1966 in an operational area in Sikkim on the China border. He was decorated with Sena Medal (gallantry) and his injury was declared a "battle casualty." He continued to serve in the Army notwithstanding his grievous injuries, but after further aggravation was invalidated out on September 18, 1978 with 100% disability for life.
 
 On leaving the Army, the officer was denied war injury pension, but was granted disability pension by the MoD's accounts department.
 
 The dispute between the veteran officer and the defence ministry was that the MoD had only agreed to pay him the war injury pension from July 2013, when he had approached the government for his dues for the first time.
 
 
 
 
 However, the officer wanted to be paid from September 1978, when he was invalidated from the services. “It is to say the least, improper on the part of the Union of India to plead the bar of limitation against such claim of a soldier who would have better died than survive with 100% disability earned by him while serving the nation, when it had defaulted in making the payment promptly when same fell due,” the tribunal observed.
 
 Directing the MoD to pay him the arrears from 1978 with 9% interest, the tribunal also imposed a cost of Rs 30,000 on the ministry for forcing the   into an unnecessary and unavoidable litigation.
 
 The AFT also noted that the case was a sad commentary on how a valiant soldier had been treated. “Had the amount, which has now been found due, been paid to him at the appropriate time in 1978, when he was invalidated out, he would have been saved from a lot of unnecessary harassment. Besides he would have earned interest on that amount. He could have utilised that amount for his personal purposes,” the tribunal added. A division bench comprising judicial member, Justice M S Chauhan and administrative member, Lt Gen Munish Sibal of AFT Chandigarh passed these orders while allowing an application filed by Major Singh.
 
 After he had approached the MoD in November 2012 and July 2013, the veteran was declared entitled for war injury pension from July 5, 2013 instead of September 1978, when he was discharged from the Army. Aggrieved, he had approached the AFT to get arrears of war injury pension.
 
