CHENNAI: In a decade from now, the city is likely to be equipped with seven to eight multi-level car parks ( ), said   commissioner D Karthikeyan. 

 Foundation stone for the first multi-level car park for public was laid last week at T Nagar. MLCPs are aimed at easing traffic by decongesting carriage ways.
 
 A fully automated multi-level parking facility has car lifts, pallets and computerised control systems that park, and also retrieve, a car within minutes, with minimum human interference.
 
 The city corporation has been preparing the feasibility reports for setting up MLCPs at several locations, including   (Nungambakkam), Sivagnanam Street (Pondy Bazaar),   ( ), Shenoy Nagar and Basin Bridge. 
 
 Karthikeyan told TOI, "We are looking at constructing MLCPs in three to four locations. We plan to enter into a joint venture with Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments Board to construct MLCPs in land belonging to the board." 
 
 The civic body has been conducting feasibility studies for setting up MLCPs for the last six years. A proposal to construct a multi-level parking facility at   bus terminus was made in 2009 under the public-private partnership model, but later it was dropped. The proposed facility, estimated to cost Rs 40 crore, was to hold 500 four-wheelers and 650 two-wheelers.
 
 Traffic woes feature among the top three problems in the city, according to the corporation commissioner. 
 
 Studies have indicated that parking spaces in the city meet only half the demand daily. Karthikeyan said, "Once the proposed parking management system is implemented, we expect to meet 75-80% of the parking space demand. As seen in cities across the world, it is never possible to meet 100% of the demand."
 
 MLCP projects have not found takers as the technology is relatively new to the country.   said, "There has been a shortage of contractors with expertise to take up the projects. We are starting to see an increase in the number of firms showing interest now." 
 
 In the past, bidders have stayed away from MLCP projects citing unviability.
 
 As the MLCPs are being planned at prime locations, the civic body expects greater interest from private players. 
 
 
