This event could easily be counted as one of the fittest   parties of the season. Fitness trainers in Mumbai got together to celebrate a one-of-a kind event.   did not just celebrate colours but fitness too, here. 

 The unique fitness-holi party brought the fitness community together in a holistic way.   who has been into fitness since the last 18-19 years and is one of the organisers says, “This is the first time in the country that we had a party like this. There were organic colours and we had multiple fitness zones across the area – there are kettlebells, tires, barbells. We had arranged for fitness challenges for enthusiasts.”
 
 
  
 
 Well, this event surely redefined the Holi scene completely – gone are the days of Holi parties equating to just music, food, fun and booze. Fitness, an integral part of everyone’s lives, was the most important part of this holi bash. 
 
 Ritesh Shailwal, fitness professional says, “This is an amazing concept which brings back the enthusiasm and motivation to celebrate Holi once again. A fitness party gives me a motivation to get ready for Holi so that when we meet like-minded people. We will not only be celebrating colours but fitness too which will help the fitness community in a holistic way. It was an environment which combines colours and fitness together to get the best rainbow of overall wellness for the society.”
 
 
 
 There were people seen thronging to fitness zones, drenched in organic colours. While food trucks stationed all around the venue had healthy, organic food, there were also Zumba sessions, bhangra dance and aerobics sessions held at this party. Live bands at the event added to the fun atmosphere. 
 
 
  
 
 Fitness expert   says, “All festivals are usually about drinking and eating cause that's the typical way of enjoying for most people. But this holi fitness party brought out something new for the fitness freaks - indulge, enjoy, workout and burn calories at the same time. It's the best way of enjoying festivals without going off track.”
 
 
 
