KOLKATA: The distance between successive flights in the   has recently been slashed by 2km to pack in more landings and takeoffs at   during crunch hours. 

 “We have reduced the spacing or separation between two arriving flights from 13km (seven nautical miles) to 11km (six nautical miles). During congestion, when there may be about 30 flights converging into Kolkata, we can now reduce around 60km or 30 nautical miles. That is enough space for five more flights to join the queue and land in an hour, thus increasing the runway capacity from 30 flights an hour to 35 flights,” said Kolkata airport regional executive director K L Sharma. 
 
 The higher separation between incoming flights when there is a takeoff slotted between two landings has also been changed. While the required separation was for nearly 15km (eight nautical miles), it has been reduced to 13km.
 
 The sky over the city gets congested four times a day with nearly 30 or more flights jostling for space to land before they run low on fuel and make a dash to touch down at an alternative airport. The capacity augmentation will be particularly helpful during peak hours in the morning, afternoon and evening. Last year, there had been several instances when flights had to divert to Bhubaneswar as fuel reserve got depleted beyond the threshold level while circling over Kolkata. 
 
 “The capacity augmentation was necessary as the airport has been operating on a very tight schedule. A short aircraft or weather related disruption used to cause problems. Now, pilots will get more breathing space and not have to worry about an alternative airport to land for refuelling before making their way back to Kolkata,” explained B K Sarkar, general manager of air traffic management at Kolkata airport.
 
 With the separation in the sky reduced between flights, the planes will come in that much quicker to touch down in succession. That will also require pilots to exit the runway soon after they land. 
 
 “The reduced separation has shaved 12 seconds between successive landings. We have held meetings with pilots, sensitizing them of the need to keep the runway occupancy time at a bare minimum,” said Sarkar. 
 
 To ensure that the close knitting of aircraft in the sky does not give rise to safety issues, air traffic management officials conducted simulation studies and spot watch on runway occupancy time from the air traffic control tower. A final safety assessment meeting was held before a notice to airmen (Notam) was issued on December 29.
 
 “The primary runway’s additional flight handling capacity, coupled with the CAT III-B ILS that reduces disruptions due to visibility issues during winter and monsoon, has significantly added to Kolkata airport’s operational reliability,” said Kolkata airport director Atul Dikshit. 
 
 However, Kolkata airport’s runway capacity will reduce to half for four hours twice a week when the main runway is shut for maintenance of CAT III lights. During that time, operations have to shift to the secondary runway that has a capability to take in 15-20 flights an hour.
 
 
  
 
 
