The votes received online on www.toi.in/mostdesirablemen along with the internal jury votes, decided the final 50 on this coveted list, which boasts of men across industries, not just movies and glamour. Every year, new faces who make news for the right reasons, find a spot here.  , who had topped the list in 2015, has once again emerged numero uno. In a relatively short span of time, the actor’s intense on-screen performances, be it as   or  , have proved that he is a powerhouse of talent. His public display of affection for his fans and co-stars add to his desirability quotient. In a chat with BT, Bollywood’s beloved 'baba' tells us what the term desirable means to him and more. Excerpts…

 
 
 Desirability for me is very subjective. Every person’s gaze is unique; different people identify different qualities in a person as desirable. I think people are attracted to you, if they want a piece of you in some way or the other. They may lust after you, perhaps, even fantasise about you — there are so many things! Being desirable essentially means to be wanted. 
 
 
 
 I can’t really say, but I guess it’s the fact that I have a distinctive personality. It could be a combination of many things. It’s the persona, aura and energy of a person. I think an attractive person exudes a certain vibe, which people can’t really put their finger on. They can try and analyse that person’s appeal, but it’s really some kind of inexplicable quality. An indescribable ‘X factor’ I guess.
 
  
  
 
 
 Certainly not. I think there are a lot of qualities that make a person sexy. It’s the whole package that constitutes the appeal of a person. I find self-confident and passionate people sexy. If someone is good at what they do, and know how to carry themselves, I find that sexy, too. Witty people are extremely attractive as well. It’s a combination of many things.
 
 
 
 I’ve always looked up to Hindi film heroes. I’m mesmerised by Amitabh Bachchan’s persona, voice and body language. He has got immense amount of sex appeal even today. He’s so well-spoken, articulate and kind. He has the most eclectic personal style and above all, he is supremely talented. He is my all-time favourite hero.
 
 
 
 It’s important for people to feel desirable for the sake of their self-confidence. I do not consider myself to be the best-looking actor. So, for me, it is very flattering to be perceived as desirable. Also, I was an overweight kid till about Class IX. In my head, I am still that fat kid who gets no female attention. I’ll always be that fat kid because those years were my foundation years. I don’t actively seek validation of my desirability from people, but it is most definitely welcome. 
 
 
 
 I smile about it, I blush! Some of the things that people say to me on social media make me chuckle. It feels good. Everybody likes to be told that they are desirable, attractive or sexy. 
 
 
 
 Most definitely. The criteria keeps changing. I think when you are young, it’s more about the physical attractiveness. As you grow up, you realise that looks are only a small part of it, it’s got to do with the entire personality, one’s intelligence, sense of humour, charm and energy. Our criteria for judging a person’s desirability goes beyond looks as we evolve into mature adults. 
 
  
 
