MUMBAI: A year after the number of chronic   spots came down to 66, the figure has jumped back to three digits—225—in the aftermath of last year’s August 29 deluge, which brought the city to a complete standstill. 

 The number of chronic flooding spots—where water takes a long time to recede— had come down over the years after the BMC began implementation of the Brimstowad (Brihanmumbai Storm Water Drain) project in 2007, wherein in nullahs were widened and pumping stations constructed. However, the August 29 deluge seems to have washed out the BMC’s efforts.
  
  
 Now, the BMC’s storm water drains department has drafted out a list of 225 chronic waterlogging spots, and civic officials have, as of now, introduced remedial measures at only 78 of them. So, three months to monsoon and the city is staring at 147 chronic flooding spots. The 225 spots have been identified by the the seven deputy municipal commissioners, local ward offices, traffic police. The exercise was carried out after the August 29 rains. 
 
 “The August 29 rains threw up some new   in the city. Last year, the conditions were unusual. The city recorded extremely heavy rains in a matter of a couple of hours coupled with high tide. Due to the two, water did not recede quickly and it caused waterlogging in several areas,” said an official from the storm water drains department. 
 
 The remedial work to minimize flooding is expected to get over before monsoon. Some of the spots in the Island City where work is under way are   station, where a pipe drain is being enlarged to box drain, Parel’s KEM Hospital, where the internal storm water drain network is being upgraded, Byculla, where a missing drain link is being built.
 
 In the eastern suburbs, drain improvements have been proposed at 46 chronic flooding spots and work is under way on some stretches like Panjrapol Junction in Chembur, near Eastern Freeway in Chembur and R City mall in  . There are 10 chronic flooding spots in the western suburbs and remedial measures have already been put in place on some stretches like Marol, which was flooded on August 29 after the sewer line got blocked,   in Dindoshi and Film City Road in Goregaon. 
 
 However, there is no clarity on what will happen to the remaining 147 chronic flooding spots. A week ago, officials from the storm water drains department, in a presentation made to the BMC commissioner, apprised him about the issue and they were directed to complete all works in time. 
 
 Citizen activists slammed the civic body’s apathy towards waterlogging which has become a regular feature every monsoon. Activist   said, “Hindu Colony in Dadar has been witnessing waterlogging only in the recent years, earlier that was not the case. Gandhi Market in   is a perennial flooding spot but nothing seems to have been done about it.”
 
 
