Nagpur: The data of groundwater levels in Maharashtra does not come as happy news on World Water Day. The Nagpur-based Central Ground Water Board (CGWB)’s figures show that in around 50% area of the state, groundwater level has fallen in the last ten years. As the accompanying map shows, the maximum fall was registered in Vidarbha.

 To study long-term changes in quantity and quality of groundwater, the board monitors around 1,874 wells four times a year — January 1-10, May 20-31, August 20-31 and November 1-10, informed senior hydrogeologist Umesh Balpande. “The wells include dug-wells as well as some water storage structures especially built for monitoring,” he added.
 
 The board’s latest report on fluctuation in groundwater in 34 districts of the state compares data of November 2017 (post-monsoon) with the average mean of ten years (November 2007-2016). 
 
 The report shows that out of the state’s total geographic area of 3,07,713 square kilometres, the groundwater level has fallen in around 1.5 lakh square kilometres. In an over 9,000 square kilometres which includes parts of Yavatmal, Chandrapur, Amravati, Akola, Beed and others, the fall in the groundwater level has been more than 4 meters.
 
 Apart from this, an area over 28,000 square kilometres saw a fall of 4-2 meters in groundwater level. Also, over 1 lakh square kilometres area saw a fall of 0-2 meters. According to the board officials, these are the areas of concern. “The reason behind this fall is rain deficiency. If the recharge of groundwater in these areas continues to be less, they might face water scarcity or drought-like situations in the coming decade,” said senior scientist Prabhat Kumar Jain.
 
 The worst affected will be rural areas where dependency on groundwater is more than 85%, added Jain. “Water utilization needs to be planned, farmers should avoid water intensive crops,” he said.
 
 Also, micro irrigation practices need to be introduced. “The best example is of Jalgaon’s banana belt where by using drip irrigation, not only the water demand reduced by 40% but also the crop productivity increased,” said Jain. 
 
 Though the state government has been marketing Jalyukta Shivar as one of its successful projects, it needs to be implemented with scientific interventions roping in hydrogeologists. “The state needs to focus on repairing and maintenance of existing artificial recharge and water conservation structures as most of them are dying due to siltation,” said Jain. 
 
 The government also needs to take up programmes for artificial recharge of groundwater. “Both supply and demand side management needs to be done, considering the local hydrogeological and climatic conditions. Mapping and managing aquifers is an effective way of augmenting groundwater,” said Jain.
 
 
