BHUBANESWAR:  , 25, whose wedding has been fixed for Monday, had not stopped crying since Friday morning when a gang of three robbed her of all her wedding jewellery, apart from other valuables, on a train. 

 With the robbers decamping with 15 bhari gold, worth around Rs 5 lakh, ID cards, ATM cards and her phone, the wedding on Monday seemed most unlikely. However, alert railway police not only nabbed one of the robbers, they recovered most of the ornaments on Saturday and proved, once again, that all's well that ends well. 
 
 The incident took place when Divya and a relative were travelling to Bhubaneswar from Visakhapatnam on coach B2 of the   on Friday. The gang struck at 4.30 am, just as the train was entering Bhubaneswar station. The three men - Rabi Nayak and two of his friends - snatched Divya's vanity bag, which contained the valuables, and jumped off near Phalikia Basti. As the train was moving quite slowly, the bride-to-be also jumped onto the tracks and gave chase, but failed to catch the robbers.
 
 "I kept crying since Friday. I thought that my wedding would be called off. I cannot thank the police enough for their quick action. It feels like a dream," said Divya, using a spare phone.
 
 Divya then lodged a complaint with the   (GRP). After receiving it, both the GRP and the Railway Protection Force (RPF) began a manhunt for Rabi and his friends, who are yet to be named. While Rabi was nabbed, the joint team of the GRP and the RPF is on the hunt for the other two involved in the robbery.
 
 On questioning Rabi, the police officers learnt that the ornaments were hidden in a slum in the city. They jointly conducted a raid and recovered them. A GRP officer said they had recovered 70 per cent of the valuables stolen from Divya. "After arresting the other two, we will get the rest of the ornaments," he added.
 
 Alok Kumar Jena, assistant security commissioner in  , said the joint team had arrested Rabi. "The GRP officials are interrogating him and they will arrest the others soon," he added.
 
 Pratap Kumar Sahoo, Divya's fiance, took to Twitter to thank the RPF squad for their work. "Quick action has been taken by the RPF inspector in charge and his team. One has been arrested in the case. I got 70 per cent of the gold ornaments back. Thanks for the great work," he tweeted.
 
 
