KOLKATA: Chief minister  , rattled by the unprecedented violence across several districts on the occasion of  , has asked police to revoke permission for processions and called for a zero-tolerance policy against those instigating clashes in the guise of celebrations.

 “No more rallies from today, there is no permission for rallies,” Banerjee said at a South 24 Parganas district administrative meeting, held at the Bharat Sevashram Sangha hospital conference room at Pailan, on Monday.
 
 Banerjee dovetailed her strong signal to the administration with a warning against the “politics of religion”. “Did Ram ever ask his followers to carry pistols? Can the administration allow ruffians, wearing saffron bands and armed with swords, daggers and pistols, to occupy the streets? Ask the monks of Ramakrishna Mission, Bharat Sevashram Sangha or Ganga Sagar Math. Do they endorse all this?” the CM asked.
 
 She ordered “all superintendents of police and other police officers” present at the meeting “to go back to their areas and take charge”. “I want strong action against the culprits, no matter who they are. Nobody will be spared. I will take action against police if they fail to book the culprits,” she added.
 
 Mamata Banerjee’s order came on Monday as reports of violence continued to reach the state capital and television footage showed BJP seniors brandishing swords and tridents during Ram Navami rallies. The Bengal CM, without naming the BJP, referred to a party that was “thinking of dominating the country with this sort of religion”.
 
 “Did Lord Ram fight Ravan with swords? It doesn’t matter to me whether a Hindu or a Muslim is the victim of violence. The victim, to me, is a human being. These people have no right to enter localities of other communities, spreading panic with firearms and swords. They are maligning the image of Ram,” she said, adding: “It goes against our culture.”
 
 State director-general of police Surajit Kar Purkayastha informed Banerjee that cops had gathered video clips and other evidence of people carrying dangerous weapons in Ram Navami rallies that would enable them to take strong action against the miscreants under the Arms Act.
 
 
