GURUGRAM: Chief minister   projected his government as the ideal employer to trainee administrators during a visit to Gurugram Thursday, though it was Arvind Kerjriwal whom his message appeared to be really aimed at.

 “Government officers in Haryana are working as a family for the betterment of people. We don’t want to create a Delhi-like situation in the state,”   told news reporters at the Haryana Institute of Public Administration after speaking to trainee civil services officers on ‘Citizen Centric Administration and Good Governance’.
 
 Khattar was referring to the breakdown of ties between the Kerjriwal government and the Delhi bureaucracy after the alleged assault on chief secretary Anshu Prakash at the CM’s residence last month. 
 
 The Haryana CM himself has been repeatedly targeted by the opposition on governance, particularly the breakdown of law and order during the Jat protests and the sentencing of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh. But his ties with the bureaucracy have remained firm.
 
 Khattar actually drew criticism from the opposition for “trying to please bureaucrats” when his government invited senior officials to a three-day ‘chintan shivir’ at a resort in Himachal Pradesh last December. There were cultural programmes, comedian Sunil Grover was invited, and some bureaucrats sang ghazals and old melodies. The CM himself is reported to have broken into a song as well.
 
 While speaking at HIPA, Khattar also took aim at his predecessors for leaving state affairs in a mess that his government was trying to correct, in particular, irregularities in the recruitment process. It was, otherwise, a busy two days for the CM in Gurgaon, where his assignment ranged from laying the foundation stones for two new bus depots and a multi-storeyed   for HIPA employees and launching new outlets of the government-backed   markets. 
 
 Jawahar Yadav, former officer on special duty to Khattar, said, “When BJP came to power in the state, the CM’s slogan was ‘Haryana Ek, Haryanvi Ek’. We believe all 2.5 crore residents of the state are equally responsible for development, be it a politician, a government employee or a resident. What happened in Delhi, we criticize that because politicians and bureaucrats should work together and not be opposite forces.”
 
 
