MUMBAI: A series of unique initiatives will unfold in the city as the nation celebrates its 69th   on Friday. It will be a proud moment for national radio broadcaster  , whose tableau will debut at the grand parade in New Delhi.

 Shanmukhananda Sabha at King’s Circle will organise a dance show by disabled artistes in wheelchairs together with the paraplegic wing of the Indian  . 
 
 The medley will include Bharatanatyam, excerpts from the Bhagvad Gita, martial arts and Vande Mataram. Shanmukhananda will donate Rs 10 lakh for the rehabilitation of armymen wounded in action.
 
 JBCN International School in Oshiwara announced that its campus will go plastic-free from Friday. It will replace garbage bags, pens, pencils, even carrybags by visitors, with corn starch fibre or other material. The Madarsa Talimul Quran at Four Bungalows will lead a rally around Manish Nagar. Residents marvel at the consistent dedication of the children who march through the lanes singing ‘Saare jahan se achha’. The flag-hoisting ceremony will be followed by a patriotic programme at the Andheri Muslim Kabrastan Masjid, which runs the madrasa.
 
 Some housing societies will celebrate with sporting  . Sanghvi Majestic Society in Matunga will have its annual cricket tournament, where six teams will participate, said a resident, Mamta Sanghvi. 
 
 Vishvjeet Patil, the secretary of Silver Beach Society (Shivaji Park), which recently won a Swachh Bharat certificate from BMC for its waste management programme, said, “We will celebrate by inviting experts to speak on the subject.”
 
 Housewives and restaurants are preparing colourful menus too. Khar homemaker Sheila Mirchandani has designed a menu of sai bhaji or spinach with paneer in cashewnut gravy, to be finished with gajar ka halwa. 
 
 Nafisa Kapadia, who runs The Bohri Kitchen from her apartment in Colaba, has organised a special feast of homemade Bohra-style raan (leg of lamb) in three colours (orange, white and green) on January 26-27. “The red gravy is made with regular garam masala, white with cashewnut and fresh cream, and the green variety uses mint-coriander chutney,” she said.
 
 
