Here is what worked and what didn't for the three main parties BJP,   and JD(S) in  :

 
 
 
 CM PICK: Projecting Yeddyurappa, a Lingayat, as CM candidate a year ahead helped Lingayat consolidation - and made Congress's last-minute promise of minority religion status seem like a poll gambit.
 
 GOING TO THE GROUND:  's micro-management included appointment of page pramukhs (in charge of each page of the electoral roll), preparing a database of those with smartphones in each booth, and hoisting BJP flags atop houses of booth-level committee presidents.
 
 MODI EVERYWHERE: PM Modi did 21 rallies, criss-crossing the state, infusing energy into cadre and winning over voters in a last-minute push TAKING IT SLOW: BJP took its time to allot tickets, commissioned multiple surveys; chose to avoid 'dynasty' taint by denying ticket to Yeddyurappa's son Vijayendra.
 
 FARMERS' VOTES: Vokkaligas, a powerful agrarian community, saw BJP as a Lingayat party and stuck with Deve Gowda and family.
 
 REDDY NOT STEADY: Giving the Reddy brothers' associates tickets meant attacks on Congress on corruption didn't stick; BJP was seen as willing to do anything to get numbers.
 
 
 
 EARLY START: JD(S) was first to announce its first list of 126 candidates, and ensure that funds were routed to them.
 
 BIG PROMISES: Kumaraswamy's promise to waive all farm loans within 24 hours of coming to power and give monthly pension of Rs 6,000 to senior citizens won hearts and votes.
 
 HOLDING GROUND: Retained old Mysore region; got votes of Vokkaligas who were angry with  's potshots at Deve Gowda and calling JD(S) BJP's B team.
 
 
 
 BIGGER SHARE: Despite anti-incumbency, it managed to increase its vote share by 2%.
 
 CITY WIN: Bengaluru's awful urban infrastructure, traffic and frothing lakes a sore point, but Cong managed to retain its 13 seats in the city.
 
 POOR GAMBLE: Siddaramaiah's Lingayat card didn't work as the powerful big mutts didn't clearly spell out whether they were for or against minority status.
 
 CASTEMATH:Congress focus on Ahinda - a Kannada acronym for alpasankhyataru (minorities), hindulidavaru mattu (backward classes) and dalitaru (Dalits) - left Gowdas feeling marginalised, pushed them to BJP. Kurubas (Siddaramaiah's caste) stuck with Congress but wasn't enough.
 
 CORRUPTIONCHARGES: Allegations against Siddaramaiah's senior colleagues, especially in Bengaluru, hurt; BJP slogan of '10% commission CM' resonated with voters.
 
 LANGUAGE WARS: Kannada pride did not get votes; voters prioritised water, roads etc over emotive appeals.
 
 
 
 
