THANE: The punctures in the   of the Thane corporation that is going unchecked since the last several years is reportedly leading to a   equal to the daily requirement of over eight lakhs residents. 
 
 The municipal administration, on Wednesday, informed the general body that roughly 37% or around 177 million litres daily (mld) stock of the 480mld water supplied to the city is lost in distribution. “We are losing around 37% of the   daily that we receive from various sources and we are working towards bringing down the losses to barely 5% once the smart meters are installed,” informed additional municipal commissioner Sameer Unhale to the House. 
  
 Officials said considering the daily average of around 200 litres usage of water per person, the wastage of water could have otherwise been used to service nearly 8.5 lakh residents across the city. Several corporators including Shiv Sena corporator Parisha Sarnaik said there was a serious lapse in the supply system as high rises didn’t get water in her area while slums that don’t pay any taxes received uninterrupted supply. 
  
 The issue of water supply wastage was raised after few corporators wanted to understand the need for installation of smart meters in the city. The netas expressed their query alleging why the administration was insistent on installing the system that has allegedly proved to be a failure in few other corporations in the metropolitan region. 
  
 It may be noted, the smart meter system will be installed at a cost of Rs 83 crore in the city over the next two years using smart city funds. While the capital expenditure will be borne by the centre, the administration is expected to spend nearly Rs 24 crore on the maintenance for the same for the subsequent five years. 
  
 BJP corporator Sunesh Joshi followed by NCP corporator Hanumant Jagdale also questioned the administration on how they plan to plug the leakage and save the water. On the other hand, Shiv Sena corporators Vikas Repale and Purvesh Sarnaik supported the project saying it was the need of the hour to plug the leaks in the system. 
  
 Krishna Patil of the BJP suggested the administration initiate a pilot project instead of embarking on the new project at one go to which commissioner Unhale managed to silence the corporator’s disapproval by saying that the administration was taking full responsibility of the efficiently of the system. 
  
  
