LUCKNOW: A   team along with UP cops picked him up from an   residence of his relative in Lucknow at around 4:30am. Sengar was taken to the CBI headquarters in   where he was interrogated till late in the evening. 

 
  
  
 
  His family said he had planned to leave for Varanasi for a visit to   temple but was asked by the CBI to join the probe. The central agency team converted three FIRs earlier filed by the   police to move ahead in the case. 
 
  According to the CBI press release, the first FIR was about the alleged rape of the girl, in which Sengar and a woman, Shashi Singh, had been named as accused. The second one was about rioting, in which four locals have been booked, and also the alleged killing of the victim's father in judicial custody. Since the murder charge was added later by the police, it does not reflect in the CBI FIR. 
 
 
 
 
 CBI Official Claims They Have Been Called
 
 The third case deals with allegations against the survivor’s father who was arrested under Arms Act and put in jail by the local police where he died in custody. He also suffered 18 serious injuries, according to the postmortem report.
 
 The victim has alleged that she was raped by the MLA at his residence on June 4, 2017 where she had gone with a relative seeking a job. She tried to immolate herself in front of the CM’s residence in Lucknow on April 8 after repeated pleas for justice were not heeded.
 
 The state government recommended the case to the CBI, which detained him on Friday morning, hours after formally taking over. Sengar was kept at the CBI office in Lucknow till late in the night, keeping media persons and onlookers on tenterhooks throughout the day.
 
 CBI’s Gaur told TOI that the CBI team first detained Sengar and then took him to its office at   for interrogation while another team set out for Unnao. In Unnao, they further bifurcated into two units. One of the teams questioned the family members of the survivor who were stationed at a hotel in Unnao city while another unit visited the Makhi police station and quizzed policemen who were suspended. Six of them have been detained, too.
 
 Later, the same team went to the alleged crime spot and interacted with villagers. “The team also spoke to doctors who had done medical examination of the survivor’s deceased father,” said Gaur. The CBI team also met the Unnao SP and took her statements on the episode. They returned to Lucknow around 7.30pm. Despite media reports about Sengar’s arrest, especially after the high court categorically asked for it, the CBI officials kept on stating till late in the evening that he was still under detention and not arrested.
 
 CBI sources privy to the probe told TOI that the statements of the accused and the survivor and others would be examined and later both would be brought face-to face in order to get clarity in the case. “The survivor and her family have been called to Lucknow on Saturday,” said a CBI source.
 
 Meanwhile, the CMS of the district hospital, Dr DK Diwedi, and emergency medical officer Dr Prashant Upadhaya were found lax in discharge of their duties and suspended following a preliminary report by a committee set up by the DM and CMO of Unnao to probe the death of the survivor’s father.
 
