NAGPUR: Society of St Vincent de Paul — Nagpur Area Council, an organization inspired by gospel values, held a grand   to raise funds for the underprivileged and the needy people at Suresh Bhat Sabhagruh in which a number of talented singers and dancers enthralled the crowd with their skills on Sunday.

 Abraham Viruthakulangara, archbishop of the city who passed away recently, was remembered at the beginning of the event. 
 
 Both, amateur and professional singers, mesmerized the audience with their vocals during the programme titled ‘Towards Unity of Hearts Through Symphony’.
 
 Singer Edgar McKenzie gave a befitting tribute to Mukesh as he sang ‘Taaro mein sajke’ from ‘Jal bin machhli’.
 
 Celebrity performer Yashashree Bhave of Indian Idol 2 fame won accolades with her perfect notes and soul-stirring rendition of ‘Suno sajna papihe ne.’ She was able to strike a chord with those present as her performance had glimpses of Lata Mangeshkar.
 
 Singer   made heads sway as she reminded everyone of Helen’s famous cabaret number ‘Aa jaane jaa’ from ‘Inteqam’ and the audience joyfully hummed along with her. She received a thunderous applause for taking the high notes flawlessly.
 
 One of the best singers of the current era, Arijit Singh, was also celebrated as Simon William, a music teacher at a city school, sang his heart wrenching number ‘Ae dil hai mushkil’. Introducing his own variations in the song, he explored his versatility as the crowd cheered him.
 
 Yashashree and Father Jose Panackal set a surreal ambience with their duet as they sang the romantic number, ‘Tumse milke aisa laga’.
 
 The playlist was a mix of old and new songs. It comprised peppy ones like ‘Mausam mastana’, ‘Nisha’ and ‘Gulabi aankhein’ and some romantic ones like ‘Kaun tujhe’, ‘Tere bina zindagi se koi’ and ‘Moh moh ke dhage’. 
 
 Chief organizer Father Joseph said, “This is the first time that our members have conducted a cultural event. The budding artistes also got an opportunity to display their art and nurture expertise.”
 
 
