Bollywood has had its share of singers-cum-actors across decades. However, there’s something about this turbaned pind-da-puttar from Punjab. While his voice and sense of music have cultivated patrons over the years, his acting abilities, evident in his Punjabi and two Hindi films, have won him a new set of fans. Diljit Dosanjh, gearing up for a busy year at the movies with as many as three upcoming Hindi films, and a Punjabi period drama, admits that he’s never felt part of any industry. “I don’t have much idea about how films are really made, because occasionally, even the best scripts don’t turn out to be the way you imagined them,” he says. Over to the singer-actor’s conversation with BT. Excerpts...

 
 
 I don’t think so much about the genre of the film, I simply follow my instinct. Sometimes, it’s the story that pulls me towards a project; sometimes, it’s the people associated with it and at other times, just a feeling that it might turn out to be good. I don’t have much idea about how films are made, because occasionally, even the best scripts don’t turn out to be the way you imagined them. 
 
 
 
 I had never done something like that before, it was actually crazy. I didn’t know what was going on. In Punjabi films, actors have often designed our own clothes, choreographed their songs and even scouted for locations, but here, we were on standby for 24 hours, shooting whenever some celebrity agreed to film their cameos. It was a once-in-a-lifetime experience.
 
 
 
 I got to learn hockey from Sandeep paaji himself. He didn’t hold anything back and told me everything about himself and the game. At the outset, it was difficult to hold the hockey stick, because I have never been a sportsperson and neither have I followed any sport too closely. Music was my only focus. Funnily enough, hockey and cricket seemed the same to me because I thought dono mein ball hi to maarni hai. However, when I started playing hockey, I realised the massive difference between the two sports. Hockey takes a toll on your back, and your nails can bleed while striking. To add to it, I had to portray one of the finest hockey players of his time. Sandeep paaji is the best drag flicker in the country. I spent 10 days just trying to get his stance right. The film has wrapped up, but even today, I can’t play as fast as him. Speed hi nahi hai, but I can do the drag flick.
 
 
 
 (Cuts in) Oh! I am a huge fan of Sanjay Dutt and Ranbir Kapoor, so I will watch the Dutt biopic. I am sure it will be good. Competition to hota hi rehta hai.
 
 
 
 Like I said, I am not such a serious person and this is not my field anyway. Films are a director’s medium. If a film is good, you will sail through it even if you’re average, but if the film is bad, it won’t help even if you put your best foot forwards. No matter how loudly an actor says that he knew his film would work, trust me, he doesn’t know anything. It’s all a lie when they say, ‘I knew this will work’. No one except the director knows whether something will work or not. So, these things don’t become my benchmarks.
 
 
 
 Never! A director’s job is very difficult. He gives his life to every film. Itni baatein sunni padti hain roz. I’m so sensitive that if someone speaks loudly to me for no fault of mine, I won’t be able to get myself to work. As a director, agar mujhe kisine kuch bol diya, toh main to uss din film hi bandh kar doonga. Maybe, if I feel comfortable, I’ll work the next day. I know it’s a shortcoming, but this is how I am.
 
 
 
 I don’t even feel like I am a part of the Punjabi film industry, let alone Bollywood, though by the grace of God, I have work in both. People feel that I am a part of both industries, but I don’t feel so. Main bada akela feel karta hoon, but that’s fine. I easily move on from one project to the other without any baggage.
 
 
 
 Log kya socheng,e kya kahenge usse mera koi lena dena nahi. If people say I was great in a film, it doesn’t mean that I have permanent employment in Bollywood or the Punjabi industry. Even now, I have to prove myself with every film and song. Things like praise, criticism or expectations won’t get me employment. I just have to do my work well, and only that can get me more work. 
 
 
 
 
 I miss my music immensely when I am working on films, because the latter is very time-consuming. I regret when my fans tell me that they miss my music. I have actually not had much time to work on new songs. So, irrespective of where I shoot now, I try and work on my music simultaneously. I collaborate with my music partners, who often travel to my shooting locations. Also, sometimes, when I am really sad, I just start working on my music. It makes me really happy.
 
 
 
 
 
 Right, and I follow a lot of girls. I even follow Sonkashi Sinha’s profile on social media and I keep commenting on so many girls, provided they’ve done something interesting.   ka to main fan hoon, so I keep a tab on her social media page. The other day, Gal Gadotji was actually looking like a Punjabi kudi, at least, that’s what it seemed like to me. Well, it’s imagination, you know (laughs). There’s nothing wrong with that. Gal Gadotji ka to kaam bada accha laga mujhe. I keep checking out what’s happening on social media occasionally, so that I don’t get bored. People picked on this stray comment I made on Gal’s picture. She doesn’t know how much she is helping me publicise myself (chuckles).
 
 
