BHOPAL: Probe into alleged multi-crore completion certificate scam may be extended to cover entire Bhopal city, following sanction of the   (BMC) general council. The probe was ordered into the scam following ruckus over the issue in the previous general council meeting but its scope was limited to just two of 19 zones of the city.

 The committee which went through the matter found half of 38 completion certificates in these two zones issued by building permission department between January 1 to April 30, 2017 as fake. In the light of blatant irregularities detected in issuance of completion certificate in the two zones — 18 and 19 — the two corporators, who were part of the probe team, Girish Sharma of the   and Balmukund Soni of the  , have recommended that scope of the probe should be extended to all the 19 zones so that a comprehensive report could be prepared on the scam and accountability fixed for it. 
 
 Girish Sharma, who broke the scam during   meeting leading to probe, said he and Balmukund Soni of the BJP are unanimous in their opinion that a comprehensive probe be ordered into scam by the general council in its next meeting,. 
 
 “If there have been irregularities in issuance of completion certificate in the entire city, there is no logic in holding probe in just two zones and sparing the remaining 17. Therefore, we have recommended that the probe be extended to cover the entire city,” said Girish Sharma.
 
 Expressing similar sentiments, Balkrishna Soni, who is also a mayor-in-council member, said that they have made the recommendation to hold a probe in the entire city but final decision in the matter would be taken by mayor Alok Sharma and BMC commissioner  .
 
 Sharma further said that building permission department officials, who were transferred from the department after the scam broke, had admitted to issuing 123 completion certificate during the period in question and if half of 38 certificates were found illegal by them, number of illegal completion certificates issued among 19 zones of the city could well be gauged. “Once our report is presented in the next meeting of the general council, I hope a more comprehensive probe covering the entire city would be sanctioned.”
 
 BMC commissioner, Priyanka Das, also suggested that the probe into the two zones was ordered at the behest of BMC general council and any further probe would have to be mandated by general council itself. “During the general council meeting, the mayor had ordered an inquiry for two zones,” she said when asked whether the probe would be extended to cover the entire city.
 
 Fake completion certificates were allegedly issued on back dates so as to allow the builders escape tough   (RERA) laws on their ongoing projects.   had come into effect on May 1, 2017.
 
