Porvorim: Chief minister Manohar Parrikar on Wednesday said that he will spell out the government’s roadmap on mining through his reply on the demands for grants for mines at the upcoming budget session of the Goa legislative assembly. “No infrastructure works will be stopped. No one needs to worry. People’s livelihood will not be affected,” said Parrikar at a press conference on Wednesday, following a meeting with legislators representing the mining belt. The apex court, last week, passed an order halting mining operations in Goa from March 16, quashing 88 leases granted by the state government in 2015. Parrikar also attempted to dispel the perception that the stoppage of mining, one of the biggest industries in the state, will affect Goa’s economy. Parrikar, who also holds the mines portfolio, said “There will be no financial implications. If at all, it will be just two-three per cent.” The chief minister also refused to divulge the points of discussions of today’s meeting with MLAs of constituencies predominantly dependent on mines. Parrikar said he will have a discussion with all the stakeholders, legal experts will be consulted before any methodology is adopted. The State still has time to draw up a plan of action. Reiterating his point that the State will not face financial problems with the SC order coming into force, Parrikar said he will be ensure that livelihood of those dependent on mining are not “disturbed.” “That is my responsibility and once I assume responsibility, I don’t drop it like a hot potato,” Parrikar said without a giving a hint, how he plans to accommodate people in jobs, and in which sector, if mining companies start sacking employees post March 16. Parrikar said the government is in possession of 400 million tons of eore that would last till May while mining activity remains closed during. Ideally, the government has in hand about six-seven months in hand, until it’s time for mining season to start in October. Parrikar however clarified that there will not be doles for those losing out jobs in the mining industry. He advised reporters to wait till he presents his budget, when asked what he proposes to do? After mining activity came to a standstill in September 2012, the government had given financial aid to mining affected people.