MUMBAI: Two Mumbaikars were killed when a community   block   in at Saisadan Chawl in   (West) early on Saturday. It took   six hours to find and retrieve the   with the help of the National Disaster Response Force ( ) and  .

 Firemen have identified the two deceased as Lobaben Jetwa (42) and Babulal Dewase (45).
 
 BMC officials said the toilet   with 20 cubicles was constructed three decades ago on private property for residents of the chawl. But most residents had stopped using it some years ago as they constructed their own personal washrooms inside their rooms.
 
 The tragedy took place around 6.30am. Initially, there was no clarity on the number of persons trapped under the  . Anil Rajbhoj, an eyewitness who said he lives in the neighbourhood, said he rushed to the spot on learning of the incident around 7am. 
 
 He said, “We went to all the rooms in the chawl and asked for the whereabouts of each and every family member. The residents also confirmed how many residents had left on work. This helped conclude that only two persons were missing from the chawl.”
 
 The locals helped firemen remove the debris, but since there was no trace of the victims, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and sniffer dogs were called in. Firemen also called in sewerage and drainage department officials.
 
 Officials said they noticed a body three hours after the incident and it took another two hours to retrieve it. They took another hour to find the other body. Firemen shifted the victims to a hospital where they were declared dead on arrival.
 
 Local corporator Sakshi Dalvi said, “It was an over three-decades-old toilet block. Some residents of the chawl were using it when the entire toilet block caved in into the tank. The victims were trapped in the debris and it took more than six hours to retrieve their bodies.” Former MLA Shishir Shinde said, “The BMC should conduct a structural audit of such community public toilets to avoid such an incident. Many a times, mice dig the soil below the toilet blocks, which weakens the structure. This is a common problem in chawls and slums”
 
 
