NAGPUR: The Nagpur Metropolitan Region Development Authority (NMRDA) has declared  ,328 buildings in Metro Region as unauthorized. This number is likely to go up manifold as the drive to identify such structures is yet to cover many parts of the Metro Region.

 NMRDA has received around 2,000 applications for regularization of buildings and plots following launch of a special scheme by the state government to regularize unauthorized structures and plots. These applications are said to be apart from the 1,328 structures that were declared unauthorized. Majority of the structures are close to the city. All these hint at rampant unauthorized constructions around the city, ignored for years by the district administration, which was the authority before NMRDA was set up.
 
 The NMRDA’s list of 1,328 unauthorized constructions includes 115 industrial structures, 75 educational institutions, 65 multi-storey commercial complexes, 52 restaurants, and 884 residential buildings. All have been issued notice under the   and Town Planning (MRTP) Act in last five months. These buildings do not have sanctioned building plans or  , nor have they complied with norms of   (NMC) fire and emergency services department.
 
 Through the notice, NMRDA has directed owners of the structures to get regularized or demolish the unauthorized constructions within one month. Many of the owners have not even replied to the notices.
 
 Taking serious cognisance, NMRDA has sent a letter to the fire department asking it to initiate action against 22 educational institutions and 19 godowns under phase-I.
 
 NMRDA officials told TOI the unauthorized constructions have the best chance to get regularized under the government’s current scheme. “The government had launched the scheme in October last year, where various types of relaxations have been given to unauthorized constructions. NMRDA has extended the deadline to avail the scheme till October 4. Normal rules will be applicable once the scheme lapses,” he said.
 
 The official added residential buildings outside gaothan limits of 719 villages will be penalized after action against big structures, especially industrial and commercial. “Structures that came up in no development zone and reservation lands will not be regularized.”
 
 However, the NMRDA’s action against unauthorized constructions even before commencing development works in Metro Region is likely to invite criticism.
 
 Convener of Jai Jawan Jai Kisan, Prashant Pawar, said NMRDA had planned to implement Metro Region development plan on the basis of money recovered from common man, especially villagers. “NMRDA’s responsibility was to develop infrastructure in Metro Region. Not a single work has been started in Metro Region, but NMRDA did not waste any time in initiating action against the public. Now, citizens will be forced to run pillar to post and pay hefty fines to save their structures. The same happened in Gunthewari Layouts in the city, where   (NIT) did not execute development works but forced people to pay to save their houses,” he said.
 
 
