As the sun went down in the far away horizon, the stunning limestone-and-brick gali gopuram of   in Ammapalle lit up to life. Hyderabad’s well-heeled, draped in the finest silks and handloom weaves trooped in and so did the village folk — especially little boys and girls — everyone equally excited about the spectacle that was about to unfold.
  by Paramparaa, the annual temple festival which has been bringing to Ammapalle’s 13th century ramalayam some fine classical performances as well as a lot of footfall for the past few years, pulled off yet another houseful act on Friday evening. The venue — an ancient stepwell to the east of the temple, on the stairs of which guests assembled — was packed to the brim. There was a ‘pakka’ stage too this time — erected on the base of the well, perhaps ruining chances of its revival forever. Oh, well!
 Once the show began though, that niggle was all but forgotten. It could be the trance-inducing vedic chants that kickstarted the proceedings or even the pleasant nip in the air remaining from the winter chill that’s disappeared from everywhere else in the city, but by the time the performers of the evening took centre stage, the air was ripe with anticipation. And they didn’t 
 disappoint.
 Samhara, the dance collaboration between Bangalore’s Nrityagram and Chitrasena, a Sri Lankan dance company, resulted in a ballet that was a unique rhythmic dialogue between the graceful Odissi and Sri Lanka’s traditional dance form, Kandyan. 
 The production began with Arpan, which was both a prayer to invoke the Mother Goddess and an offering to the five elements. set to moving music by Pandit Raghunath Panigrahi, played live at the venue, the dancers had the audience captivated with their moves that seemed to melt into each other, effortlessly, much like the raags themselves. This was followed by the Shivastuti, beautifully conceptualised to bring out the lasya and tandava of Shiva’s cosmic dance. The Odissi dancers —  ,  ,   — transported the audience to Kailash, with their satvika and angika abhinaya, depicting Shiva as the lord, the lover, the cosmic dancer and the destroyer, all at once. The next piece, an ashtapadi, was high on abhinaya. It showed a heart broken Krishna who cannot believe that he let his Radha down.
 The final piece, alaap, was a fitting finale to the breathtaking production. The Kandyan dancers,   and   stole the show in this one. With their spritelike moves, the duo seemed air-borne through most of the piece. Their crisp footwork and acrobatic twirls were aptly complemented by the nimble-footed Odissi doyens joined by Akshiti and together, they created a kaleidoscope of abstract shapes and forms, engaging the audience in their mesmerising musical conversation.
 The evening ended with guests walking up to Dr Srinagi B. Rao and Shashikala Reddy, founders of Paramparaa foundation for making another spell-binding cultural evening possible.
 
