CHANDIGARH: The much-criticised hike in parking charges has yet again exposed rifts within the  . Councillors of the saffron party vocally opposed each other on the subject during a monthly meeting of the MC House on Monday.

 Things reached such an impasse at times that mayor Davesh Moudgil had to intervene to calm down his party colleagues and ensure proceedings stayed civil. Former mayor Arun Sood was the first who was interrupted by a party colleague.
 
 Sood put up a defence for the parking deal with a private firm, saying there had some improvements from earlier. “We are bound to follow the memorandum of understanding (MoU), as we have already cleared it. As we are already cash-strapped, revenue generation is crucial,” he said.
 
 The statement irked former deputy mayor  , who said nothing had changed in parking lots at all and a committee formed for inspecting them had found “numerous anomalies”. “People are being harassed; they have been paying the Rs 20 per entry for nothing in the name of facilities. We are not here to burn a hole in the pockets of the common man; there are more ways to earn money, but not by burdening people,” he said.
 
 His statement triggered unruly scenes in the MC House, as councillors sitting next to each other got into arguments, forcing the mayor to intervene.
 
 Later, Sood asked municipal commissioner   if councilors had the powers to roll back the MoU. Before Sood could complete, BJP councillor   intervened and said all was not right in paid parking lots.
 
 Replying to Sood, another BJP councilor,  , said the MC Act gave powers to the councillors take a decision in larger public interest. However, commissioner Yadav said the decision rested with the local bodies department of the administration.
 
 
 
 
  councillor   was carrying a placard demanding a rollback in the hike on parking charges. This irked a BJP councillor, who said the opposition was trying to give the entire issue a political colour. “This is not right,” said the councillor.
 
 
