Ludhiana: Four months after the director-general of police (DGP) had ordered an inquiry into the buying of two- wheelers by Ludhiana (Rural) police through ‘forcible’ collection of donations from private individuals and associations, the probe is yet to begin. Advocate  , who had written to the DGP   in October about the matter, after which the grievance cell had acknowledged that DIG Ludhiana would take necessary action.

 In a complaint to DGP Punjab and other officers, Gupta informed them about forcible extortion by cops — in the name of voluntary contributions and donations — from individuals, NGOs, and associations, running into lakhs of rupees for police welfare schemes, city welfare schemes, purchase of equipment, scooters, motorcycles or gearless two-wheelers and four-wheelers for personal use, or city patrolling in cash/kind.
 
 “As my family is a member of Arhtia Association, Mullanpur Mandi, I came to know that before October last year, SSP Ludhiana (Rural) had accepted Rs 50,000 as donation for two-wheelers, but did not give a receipt for that. So, later — as the association had shown the money spent in their records — they did not have a receipt for it. As per my knowledge, they bought 15 such two-wheelers by collecting donations from individuals, NGOs, and associations. Later, I asked for registration certificates or insurance documents of these vehicles, but they didn’t have those documents,” said the complainant.
 
 He added: “Later, I lodged a complaint with the DGP about the matter, and at the same time, also filed an application under   with the state information commissioner. In the application, I had asked for information, including list of donors, receipts issued to them, registration certificate copies of vehicles, Government of Punjab permission copy — whether the police had requested for two-wheelers from the state government or home department, refusal letter, etc.” He further added that during the past three hearings, Ludhiana (Rural) police had not provided him any details.
 
 After his complaint on October 3 last year, the DGP — following the grievance cell’s mail — had ordered a probe into the matter the same day through DIG Ludhiana Range, but the inquiry is yet to start. The complainant said so far, he has not been asked to join the inquiry. “I suspect they might usurp funds after they get it from the department, and get the billing done at a later date. Also, we suspect they might have taken donations from a large number of donors,” alleged the complainant.
 
 Deputy inspector general (DIG) police Ludhiana Range,  , said he was not aware about the enquiry, and would have to check at what stage it was, as it was forwarded to another officer. Responding to the allegations, SSP Ludhiana (Rural)   said: “Let the DIG Range conduct the inquiry.”
 
 
