SURAT:Sleuths of the detection of crime branch (DCB) of city police are now focused on ascertaining if the brutalized 11-yearold girl, whose body was found some time ago, had been raped or not when initial postmortem examination found her having been sexually assaulted and a foreign object inserted into her private parts.

 The injury was deep and would have claimed the life of the girl much earlier had the object been pushed a little further by her assaulter, a senior police officer said. Police are focusing their investigation to know if the girl had been raped or not since accused Harshsahay Gurjar, who killed the minor and also her mother, refuses to accept this. The girl’s body was recovered from Pandesara with 86 injury marks on April 6 and that of her mother’s on March 9 from the same area.
 
 The bodies of the girl and her mother were buried by the police in presence of family members of the deceased in a burial ground. The woman’s husband and parents had identified both the bodies. “It is important to verify if the girl was raped to prove the case in court. It has been confirmed that there was sexual assault on the girl, but we are demanding medical evidences,” police commissioner Satish Sharma told TOI.
 
 The New Civil Hospital (NCH) sources informed that an officer from DCB had met a doctor at the forensic department for confirmation if the girl was raped. The doctor told him they have already submitted a detailed postmortem report.
 
 Gurjar told the police that he had caught the girl stealing money and so thrashed her, which resulted in 86 injuries on her body. Earlier, the police claimed that Gurjar feared that the girl could reveal who had killed her mother and thus murdered her. However, the police are yet to verify Gurjar’s claim and ascertain how a 11-year-old girl gathered courage to steal money from someone who had strangled her mother 15 days ago. “It is important finding that the girl was caught stealing money and motive behind the assault. Of course, the main motive was that the girl had witnessed her mother’s  , but this could also be one of the reasons,” Sharma added.
 
