GUWAHATI: With the Barak Valley up in arms against the exclusion of a large number of names in the first draft of the national register of citizens (NRC) from the Bengali-majority region, commentators warn that political expediency should not be at the cost of creating bad blood between communities in this multi-ethnic state. 

 "The fact is that the Bengali population in Brahmaputra Valley is much more than in Barak Valley. But there is no such consternation among the community in Brahmaputra Valley because keeping patience is better than jumping the gun," said Prasanta Chakraborty, an associate professor of Bengali at Cotton University.
 
 Chakraborty, a vocal advocate of cultural understanding between Bengalis and Assamese, said many names from Assamese families havge not found place in the first draft as well. "The kind of exigency we are seeing in Barak Valley does not augur well for the sake of our multi-ethnic state. The political game that is being played over the first draft is not a healthy sign. Now is a time to wait till the second draft comes out," Chakraborty said.
 
 Political commentator Dinesh Baishya said it is unfortunate that the NRC is being used for vote bank politics, with the names missing from the first draft being exploited. Baishya said currently unfolding events may turn out to be dangerous for the state because it might create enmity between communities.
 
 "We are now also hearing demands for carving out Barak Valley as a separate state. The government of India has not yet said anything on what it will do to people if they do not make it to the final NRC. But we are seeing such restiveness, which undermining the very principle of updating the NRC. After all, both the   and the BJP, apart from regional parties, have accepted the NRC updating process," Baishya said.
 
 On Monday, the Congress took out a protest rally in Silchar against the exclusion of names in the first draft. Local MP and   president Sushmita Dev, who was at the forefront of the rally, has previously criticized the first drfat of the NRC as "discrimination against the people of Barak Valley." Dev alleged that the upper   districts have registered high percentage of inclusion of names in the first draft while Barak Valley's tally is as low as 30-35%. Soon after the publication of the first draft,   chief minister   stated that the NRC updating process is a "Bengali hatao" conspiracy being mounted by the BJP government.
 
 Bodo Sahitya Sabha general secretary Kamala Kanta Mushahary said politicization of NRC is being done with a motive to foil the updating process. "Otherwise, why there is so much noise over it? Many names did not figure in the first draft across the state. My fear is that too much of politicization might foil the process," Mushahary said. All Assam Students Union chief adviser Samujjal Bhattacharyam, who was in Silchar on Monday, said, " It is not a question of Bengalis and Assamese. We want an error-free NRC. Those who came before March 25, 1971, in line with the Assam Accord, will find place in the NRC."
 
 
