Dribbling past your opponents, wiping off sweat dripping down your forehead, is just not as sweet as watching the ball swirl past the goalie into the back of the net. And though experiencing the sweetest feeling of them all — listening to the crowd roar after a goal — isn’t always possible for players practising in one of the many clubs in the   area, one thing is a certainty. Match over, they can always head to the club canteen and indulge in some khabar-dabar and P
ele-Messi adda!
 In fact, this has been a ritual of sorts for players of the various clubs in the city’s Maidan area for decades now. After all, food and Bengal are inseparable. And that’s exactly why we visited a few of the canteens attached to some Maidan-based clubs and also spoke to a few famous Bengal sportsmen about their favourite canteen food and memories. And they had many.
 
 Footballer Subrata Bhattacharya swore by the mutton stew and toast at the   Club. “The stew still tastes as good as ever and yes, the ghugni is to die for. What I like most about the canteen is the way Kaju (who runs the canteen) ensures that everything is hygienic,” he added. His predecessor   seconded that. “I loved the ghugni, toast and omelette we had at the Mohun Bagan Club after practice,” he said, adding, “I remember the adda we had in the canteen with Arun Ghosh amd PK Banerjee over tea and food.” Even the current lot of players, who are otherwise very particular about their diet, love to indulge in canteen food quite often. Team India captain   told us that he has always enjoyed the chicken stew and toast at the Mohun Bagan canteen. “I still can’t forget the ghugni served there! It hardly had any oil or spices, and yet, it tasted heavenly. I also love the fruit salad, chicken pasta with vegetables and fruit juice at the East Bengal canteen,” he said with a smile. His contemporary Mehtab Hossain revealed that he loves the chicken stew at the Mohun Bagan Club. “It has a unique taste. The food served at the East Bengal Club cafeteria is also awesome! I really enjoy their cheese chilli toast,” he told us.
 
 Among the other sportsmen who swear by the club canteens are city cricketers   and Ashoke Dinda. Manoj, while confessing to being a regular at these joints since childhood, said, “My personal favourite is the chicken stew with toast most of the canteens serve. When I started playing first division, the most affordable canteen food used to be toast and chicken stew; in second division, it was chicken stew and toast with fish fry. Lebu cha was a must after that. When I started playing for the Bengal cricket team, the food became awesome! Moreover, Wriddhiman Saha, Anustup Majumdar and I often used to crib about our captains in the canteen over food. Now I take fish fry and chicken curry from the canteen for my wife. So, Maidan food will always be special,” he added. Ashoke, too, was all praise for the chicken stew and toast. “And the best part about Maidan canteens is that their food is always healthy and hygienic,” he added. The question is, have you tasted food at one of these canteens yet?
 
 
 The club is 107 years old and has more than 8,000 members now. And its canteen, which is open from 7 am to 8 pm, Monday to Saturday, not only serves food to the players and officials, but also caters to the public. People visit it to taste the special mutton stew and toast prepared by Kajuda aka Palash Mukherjee, who runs the canteen. “The mutton stew, prepared with milk, a bit of onion and ginger paste and a lot of added vegetables, is a dish loved by one and all. The chicken stew is made in the same manner. However, the mutton stew is more popular here.   used to love our stew and lebu cha, while veteran footballer Chuni Goswami loved the ghugni and fish fry that we served,” said Mukherjee. “Our priority is to serve fresh food, which is cooked in very little oil and is non-spicy. I think that is our USP,” he added.
 
 
 
 This 125-year-old club boasts of about 625 members. And the canteen, which is mostly open from 8 am to 8 pm all throughout the week, has a lot to offer. Sahadeb Talukdar, outdoor sports secretary of the club, told us, “The timings of the canteen change 
 
 
 
 This 98-year-old club has more than 11,000 members. And it’s the only club in the entire Maidan area that has a cafeteria open to all. They are also coming up with a restaurant soon. The cafeteria is open from 7 am to 8 pm, Monday to Saturday. “The cheese chilli toast and club sandwich are the most popular items here. And so is the pasta. The players mostly have chicken stew and pasta. That apart, it also serves different kinds of omelettes,” informed Rajat Guha, football secretary of the club, adding that players like Arnab Mondal and Katsumi Yusa have enjoyed their chicken stew, pasta and cheese chilli toast in the past.according to the practice matches and the finals. The stew — vegetable, chicken or mutton — is a big hit with the players. The most popular dishes available at our club are dhaniya chicken, bread salad and ghugni. Since most of the dishes we prepare are low on spices, people love them. Leslie Walter Claudis, the former Indian field hockey player, enjoyed having chicken rolls at our club. Baljit Singh Saini, a field hockey defender and midfielder, also loved our chicken stew.”
 
  
 
 This 102-year-old club has more than a 1,000 members. The club canteen is open from 6 am to 8 pm, Monday to Sunday. Though the owners have changed several times, the menu has remained almost the same. The fish fry, chicken stew, vegetable chop and egg chop are still popular. “The quality of food remains our topmost priority,” said Runu Ghosh, treasurer of the club, adding that players like Ajay Das, Avik Basu and Ajit Karmakar were very fond of the toast and chicken stew served at the canteen.
 
  
 
 The canteen here is as old as the club, which has completed more than 100 years. Open from 7 am to 10 pm, Monday to Saturday, the canteen has two big kitchen areas, where food can be prepared for more than 4,000 members. The club has an equally large seating area, surrounded by greenery. “Ours is the only canteen in this area that serves milk and cornflakes — the healthiest food for players. That apart, our cheese masala omelette and toast are also quite popular. The chicken thali too is much in demand. We use very little oil or spices,” said Indranil Majumdar, owner of the canteen. “Cricketers Laxmi Ratan Shukla and Sourav Ganguly used to have our chicken stew quite often,” he added.
 
 
