Trichy: The delta districts turned black on Thursday as villagers, farmers and Tamil outfits hoisted black flag atop their houses while opposition parties including DMK, MDMK, Congress, Communists, VCK, Naam Tamilar Katchi and Tamilaga Valvurimai Katchi put it up atop their offices. The cadres of these parties took out demonstrations at various places raising slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Chennai and demanding immediate constitution of Cauvery Management Board.

 In Trichy, residents and traders from Azhvarthope, Tennur, Periya Milagupparai and Vengur hoisted black flags atop their houses and shops. Elsewhere in the district, farmers from Musiri, Manapparai, Lalgudi, Thuvakudi and Thuraiyur also resorted to black flag protest at their houses and wore black shirts. DMK functionaries like K N Nehru and Thiyagarajan hoisted black flag above their houses while Kalaignar Arivalayam also sported the flag.
 
 BSNL employees observed a fast at their office in Trichy for the cause even as they resolved to take out a march towards Raj Bhavan to impress upon the Governor the need to constitute CMB. Auto drivers from central bus stand and traders also joined the protest. Black flags were seen hoisted atop houses in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam where farmers took out demonstrations wearing black shirts. A section of cadres of Tamil Desiya Katchi smeared the name board of Karnataka Bank at Thanjavur with tar. In another incident, a group of folk artists gathered in front of Panagal Building at Thanjavur and staged a demonstration by placing their fancy dresses and masks on the floor. Sporting black flags and wearing shirts of the same colour, they raised slogans demanding the setting up of Cauvery Management Board and alleged that the Centre was betraying Tamils. They said that the entire artist community had lost its livelihood as a consequence of crop failure in the delta districts. 
 
 In Karur, DMK and other opposition party leaders along with cadres as well as Tamil outfits staged a demonstration sporting black flags. They tied flags across streets, shops and commercial establishments to show their opposition to Modi’s visit to Chennai stating that he had done nothing to constitute CMB. 
 
 
