MUMBAI: The economic offences wing (EOW) of Mumbai police has filed a 22,000-page chargesheet against three persons accused in the 320 crore Temple Rose real estate investment scam. 

  
  
 
 The accused had floated various schemes under the banner of   (TRREPL) in four states, including  , and duped over 7,200 investors, who were promised a doubling of investment in three years and a commission for bringing in others. 
 
  The victims include over two dozen army persons and a Mumbai surgeon who poured into the firm 5 crore. In Maharashtra, the maximum number of investors were from Thane, Pune, Satara and Solapur. 
 
  The scam came to light after an agent who brought investors to TRREPL,  , 70, approached the police in 2016-end. He had invested 38 lakh in 2013, but didn't get the promised returns, or even the principal. Last year, the police arrested TRREPL's promoter, Devidas Sajnani, and two of his associates:   and Marx Thorat. Sajnani's wife Vanita and daughter Deepa, both directors in his firm, are wanted. 
 
  The women had filed for anticipatory bail, but their pleas were rejected by the sessions court, a decision upheld by the Bombay high court. "The initial scam amount mentioned in the FIR was Rs 90 crore. But during our probe, we found it was much more: 320 crore," said an EOW officer. 
 
 The three arrested accused are in Yerawada Jail, Pune. Sajnani used to live in Mahim, from where he shifted to a rented apartment in Bandra. 
 
 "Both flats are now locked," said an officer. "During a forensic audit, we found that 7,200 investors had been duped in various TRREPL schemes. We identified 79 bank accounts of the accused and froze them. They contain just Rs 17 lakh," the officer said. "We have attached 1,130 acres of land in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Telangana."
 
 The firm had assured investors that their money would double and gave them property papers as a form of surety. The Mumbai surgeon, who took a bank loan to invest in the firm's 'income growth plan' schemes, though losing the maximum amount, managed to get a plot allotted to him after approaching the firm with a copy of a complaint he registered with the police in 2016. The directors panicked and gave him 50 acres in Pune.
 
