KOLKATA:   ( ) will adopt a horses-for-courses policy in  , which gets under way on Saturday.

 
 Coach   wants his boys to be ready for every situation. “We won’t have a set plan this season,” he said on the sidelines of the team’s practice session under lights at Eden Gardens on Friday. “We will come up with different strategies for different situations and be flexible with our batting order.”
 
 He made one thing clear, though. New skipper Dinesh Karthik won’t be opening the innings. “At the moment, he (Karthik) would probably bat in the middle order,” the South African said.
 
 The coach didn’t reveal KKR’s opening combination. “We have got a few ideas which we will try through the season and settle for the best,” was all he would say.
 
 The policy will be the same when it comes to choosing the bowlers. “It will depend on conditions and the surface we are playing on,” Kallis said. “If the pitch is going to turn, we have got three good spinners in Kuldeep Yadav, Sunil Narine and Piyush Chawla. We’ve got some good seamers as well. So the playing XI and team combination will depend on the conditions we get. Basically, we are prepared to play on all types of pitches,” said the retired allrounder who scored 13,000-plus runs, bagged 292 wickets and took 200 catches in 166 Tests.
 
 KKR suffered a massive blow when pace spearhead Mitchell Starc was ruled out with an injury, but Kallis felt the team can overcome the Aussie’s absence. “Unfortunately Starc got injured but we have got a replacement in (Tom) Curran. We look forward to some exciting stuff from Tom who should stand up and play a big role in the absence of Mitchell,” he said.
 
 KKR’s first match, against Royal Challengers Bangalore at Eden on Sunday, will see a number of wrist spinners in action. While Yuzvendra Chahal is expected to play a big role for the visitors, KKR have Chawla and Kuldeep in their ranks.
 
 “Wrist spinners play a big role in this format,” Kallis said. “A mystery ball is slightly difficult to pick. They have a good one, we have got a couple too. We are looking forward to some exciting moments on Sunday,” he said.
 
 Though he is confident about his side, Kallis is a bit tense before the opening match. “Everyone’s a little nervous before the first game of the tournament. New teams, some new strategies and everybody will be trying to measure each other up. The teams that will start the tournament well will have an advantage,” Kallis signed off.
 
 
