CHANDIGARH: In a shocking data revelation, 86% of the   plying on Chandigarh roads are not registered with the   ( ) and are being run illegally. This implies that just 53 e-rickshaws out of 700 are under the purview of transport department which accounts for just 14% of these vehicles plying in city.

 The STA had started a drive in November last year to register the e-rickshaws in city. The data reveals that only 53 e-rickshaws were registered until March 16 and the transport officials seem to be lax in their approach towards the rickshaw owners.
 
 As manya s 50 E-rickshaw modules have been running in the city .
 
 Rajiv Tiwari, additional secretary, state transport authority said, “We have been continuously involved in getting the e-rickshaws registered since past last three-and-a-half months. The authorities have also published advertisement in the papers. The vehicles are being registered after a thorough check of the module. At present, there only a few e-rickshaws registered but we would ensure that more and more of them are registered soon. We will take stern action against those who have not registered so far. A fine of Rs 3,000 will be imposed on those plying illegally on roads.”
 
 The e-rickshaw owners informed TOI that they were unaware of any such move by the department.  , an e-rickshaw owner said, “I have not registered my e-rickshaw. Moreover, this is the first time that I have come to know that these e-vehicles have to be registered. I ply passengers from Chandigarh to   on a daily basis. Neither the police have stopped me nor told that e-rickshaw registration are open.”
 
 “My income amounts to a meagre Rs 300 per day. This is not enough to raise a family in contemporary time. I bought the e-rickshaw 7 months ago, in a hope that I would be able to tend to the needs of my family. However, we are living from hand to mouth due to low finances. I do not possess the money to to register the rickshaw. If they (authorities) will impound it, then I would have to see for alternatives,” said  , another e-rickshaw owner.
 
 
