Summer heat getting you down? One the coolest ways to beat the heat is to consume foods items that not just cool you down and keep you hydrated, but also help you lose weight. Nutrition professional  , clinical nutritionist Dr   and sports nutritionist   share tips...

 
 
 Coconut water or nariyal paani is known to maintain the electrolyte levels to help your body rehydrate and maintain Ph balance. Since coconut water is alkaline, consuming it on an empty stomach will boost metabolism and aid weightloss.
 
  
 Have fresh coconut water — avoid pre-packaged varieties. Experts say that it is better to consume this during the first half of the day.
 
 
 
 It is believed that having a mug of green tea thrice a day can accelerate fat loss. To beat the heat, you can consume it with ice. Green tea has catechins, a disease fighting antioxidant, that fights off stress and anxiety.
 
 
 Pour hot water over green tea bags and let it steep for three to five minutes under cover. After it cools, remove bags, stir in two cups chilled water and sweetener. Pour in tall glasses, over ice.
 
 
 
 Salads are high in fiber, which naturally helps in fat loss. Also, salads provide a cooling effect making it a great option in summer. They are a low calorie, high density meal, which fills you up.
 
 
 Add cucumber, iceberg lettuce, bell peppers etc to top the density of your salad. Avoid heavy dressings like mayonnaise, sauces or thousand island.
 
 
 
 The good old nimbu paani rehydrates our system and replenishes electrolytes naturally. It is also said to aid fat loss. Rich in Vitamin C, this antioxidant promotes immunity.
 
 
 Stir together chilled water, sweetener and fresh lemon juice over ice. This can be consumed as a mini, mid-morning meal.
 
 
 
 All melons are a natural source of arginine, which leads to increased blood flow aiding in better performance during workouts. Watermelons are naturally rich in the amino acid citrulline.
 
 
 Cut up watermelon into slices and serve. You can also juice them and add some de-seeded chunks into the juice for a refreshing mid-day snack.
 
 TAKE A KOKAM SHARBAT BREAK
 Kokam is  , a cousin of  , which is a major contributor towards natural fat loss. It also provides a cooling effect to the body and is known to improve digestion. Kokam Sharbat helps to fight dehydration and sun strokes. 
 How to have it: Soak dried kokam in hot water until soft and puree it with cumin. In a tall glass, pour chilled water, kokum puree and sugar syrup to make a delicious drink.
 
 
 
 Homemade chaas or buttermilk is a natural probiotic drink, which keeps the intestines cool and bad-bacteria free and helps in better digestion and absorption of nutrients from food. It also contains jeera, which promotes increased metabolism, hence resulting in fat loss.
 
 
 Mix a cup of chilled yoghurt, chopped green chilli, curry leaves, black salt and chaat masala in a blender. Serve in a glass topped with chopped coriander
 
 
 
 “Water is the most under-valued nutrient that a human body needs in every season. Especially so, during summer because water has innumerable benefits. Water is not only known to maintain basic hydration levels but is also known to keep our body’s core temperature stable, making it easier for us to lose weight this season. The more the dehydration, further the chances of water retention resulting in weight gain. We can judge the hydration levels in our body by the colour of our urine. If its yellow or pale orange, it indicates that you are already three per cent dehydrated. We should keep ourselves hydrated before we end up feeling thirsty. Water is best drink to aid in quicker weight loss,” says Sunny Arora.
 
