KOCHI: The   high court on Tuesday ordered that   could not be declined to former   employees citing the financial crisis of the corporation.

 The single bench order came on a petition filed by P A Mohammed Asharaf, general secretary of KSRTC Pensioners' Organization, seeking a directive to the government to take over the KSRTC's pension liability.
 
 The court pointed out that pension is not only compensation for service rendered in the past, but it has a broader significance in that it ensures economic security in the fall of life. 
 
  
  
 
 KSRTC, which is a statutory corporation, is a 'state' as defined in Article 12 of the Constitution, the court said. 
 
 Pension of former KSRTC employees cannot be declined citing its present financial crisis, said the high court in its order.
 
 The order was issued by a single bench of the court after considering a petition filed by PA Mohammed Asharaf, general secretary of KSRTC Pensioners’ Organization. The petitioner had sought a court directive to the state government to take over KSRTC’s pension liability and disburse the monthly pension in full.
 
 Government had argued in court that it has no direct liability in the matters of payment of pension of KSRTC, but it had provided maximum support during the crisis. The court was also told that the government has sanctioned loans from Kerala Transport Development   Corporation for KSRTC and provided government guarantee for the loans availed by KSRTC from various district cooperative banks.
 
 Moreover, initiatives are being taken by the government to convert short-term, high-interest loans of KSRTC to longterm, low-interest loans through a consortium of banks headed by  . When this is completed, KSRTC would be able to pay salary and pension promptly, the court was told.
 
 The court pointed out that pension is not only compensation for loyal service rendered in the past, but pension also has abroader significance in that it ensures economic security in the fall of life.
 
 KSRTC, which is a statutory corporation, is a ‘State’ as defined in Article 12 of the Constitution, the court said.
 
 KSRTC cannot deny pension to its former employees citing its financial difficulties, the court said in the order. “Pension is a social security measure, consistent with the socio-economic requirements, providing safeguards to the employees in their later years of life, who have shed their sweat and blood for the employer during their long service. Being a right attached to the office, pension cannot be denied or delayed arbitrarily.
 
 The financial constraints of the employer is not a valid ground to deny or delay the payment of pension to the employees, since it is a deferred payment earned by them for rendering long and satisfactory service with the employer,” the court’s order stated.
 
 Further, the court directed that KSRTC should explore the possibility of earmarking a specified percentage of its daily collection for timely payment of monthly pension and such money should be kept in a separate account. The case was posted for further hearing on February 6 after the government and KSRTC sought time to file affidavits.
 
 
 
