KOLKATA: In a  ,   wrote on   that their “fast movie” is coming soon. Sunil Tanti who was tagged to the post chose to reply that it wasn’t a movie but an “inspirational video.”

 Dolui quickly added, “It’s the same isn’t it. It is our small movie, an inspirational movie.” Sunil liked the post. They died shooting the video on Monday.
 
 Dolui and Tanti’s death, however, leaves a trail of unanswered questions, which is baffling all who seem to know the three friends. Among them is Tanti’s mother  , who is yet to come to terms with her loss.
 
  
 “I’m not well myself. I had gone to see a doctor having seen off my son for Surendranath College in the morning. He was also not well and was complaining of body aches,” said Swapna’s husband Rajen Tanti owns a local wielding shop.
 
 “Dolui, however, insisted he goes to the college so he did. This evening Soumadeep’s mother came rushing to my home seeking information about the boys. It was from her that I learnt of the accident. I don’t understand it at all. Just a few hours back, he had left for college and now he will never come back home,” Tanti added Locals say the three teenagers were close friends and use to travel to the college together. Subhodeep and Saisab studied in Bangabasi college while Sunil was a student of Surendranath College.
 
 For Shanti Dolui and his wife Soma, the reality hasn’t settled in. The trader and his wife was not in a condition to speak.
 
 Locals at Pannihati’s Pat Bari Lane were reeling in shock.
 
 “They were very studious and were always nice to everyone. None ever said anything bad about them. Even a few days back, on February 7, they were having the time of their life in a local marriage party. Their only passion was to shoot photographs and upload them on YouTube or Facebook. They had uploaded such videos several times in the past. We think they were do so again,” a neighbour said.
 
 Locals also claimed they were not sure why the three youths chose to shoot their movie in that spot, also called Shisharpitch.
 
 “It is a very dangerous place to go. There have been several accidents there before. It is frequented only by addicts. Had we known they were to go there, we could have stopped them from doing so,” said another local.
 
 The families said they were awaiting more information from police on how the Monday’s incident unfolded.
 
