THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As Kerala Water Authority’s much-delayed bottled water project is finally nearing completion, a new controversy has risen. A query raised by additional chief secretary   – questioning the viability of the project – has put a question mark on the future of the project. Despite controversies, the project is gearing up for commission within three months.

 
 Sources said that the project is yet to get administrative sanction for the revised estimate of Rs 16 crore. “However, the delay in getting administrative sanction has not affected the project. The electric works and process to get   certification are progressing. The tender for purchase of raw materials can be made only after getting administrative sanction for the revised estimate,” said a senior KWA official.
 
 The bottled water project in Aruvikkara was originally planned in 2006 as an incomegenerating project for the   KWA.
 
 Kerala Water Supply and Sewerage Act was amended for the project in 2008 and the foundation stone was laid in 2010. However, the work was delayed due to various reasons, including non-participation of bidders in the tender. The CAG report in 2013 had criticized KWA for its laxity in implementing the project.
 
 The project was revived in 2015 after it floated the tender under three different components namely: civil, electrical and mechanical. KWA then revised the estimate from Rs 2.2 crore to Rs 10 crore. Recently, KWA submitted a revised estimate for an additional sum of Rs 6 crore, which was questioned by the additional chief secretary. Following the controversy, KWA MD A Shainamol was replaced from the post. Now, a technical member of KWA hold the MD post.
 
 KWA’s water plant can produce 7,200 litres/ day. KWA is planning to sell bottled water in 500 ml, one litre, two litre and 20 litre packs. Except 20 litre – which is available in a can – rest will be available in bottles. KWA is using reverse osmosis with UV, de-chlorination and filtration to treat the water. KWA has not taken a decision on the price yet.
 
