JAIPUR: Jhalawar district administration has kicked-off a   ‘good touch and bad touch’ in government schools and Aaganwadi centres aiming to create awareness on sexual abuse and harassment of children. Under the campaign, students up to 14 years of age will be explained the difference between the good and bad touch through three modules, different art forms, behavioral change along with posters and banners. It is a first of a kind initiative in the state.

 These tailor-made modules are designed without directly talking about the private parts. Creativity has been applied keeping sociological, psychological and philosophical sensitivities of locals in mind. For instance, one of the poster shows a girl surrounded by several hands with a title ‘Understand touch—break the silence.’ The content part also include animations keeping in mind the similar background of the town showcasing different ways of bad touch in a subtle manner. Small video clippings from serials and movies discussing the subject are also used. When it comes to art forms, a puppet show highlighting lack of communication between a mother and her daughter made the latter unable to discuss it with her mother. “The puppet show further shows that the discussion on good touch and bad touch in schools encourage the girl to speak about the harassment meted out to her in the vicinity. The idea is to create a situation which can be common to victims as it is seen that girls at that tender age don’t know how to handle this situation or how to express the incident,” said  , district collector of Jhalawar.
 
 The last component which the administration has termed as the most important is behavioral change. 
 
 “The success of the campaign depends upon engaging the communities or the targeted groups. The first step of change has to come from the society by encouraging them to promote the idea of gender equality and to break taboos. Strict laws like POCSO are in place but there is a need to spread awareness about such laws,” said   of  , who is collaborating with the local administration for the campaign. 
 
 
