LUDHIANA: A local court has sentenced a person to five years of rigorous imprisonment for trying to hit on duty police officials with the vehicle he was driving. The court of Additional Sessions Judge Balwinder Kumar also imposed a fine of Rs 2,000 on the convict failing which he will have to further undergo a rigorous imprisonment for six months.

 On June 23, 2013, Basti Jodhewal police had booked Sunny of   in the area under sections 307 (Attempt to murder), 279 (Rash driving or riding on a public way) and 186 (Obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on allegations that he tried to hit some cops on duty with his vehicle. 
 
 As per the prosecution, on that day, assistant sub-inspector Gurmit Singh was on duty as investigating officer along with other police officials. They had set up a check post (nakabandi). The ASI Gurmit Singh with his torch light signalled a white Bolero Jeep bearing number PB-10EA7143 to stop. But the driver instead of stopping, turned the car from the area and tried to hit the officials driving rashly. The cops moved away on time to save themselves. The police officials chased the vehicle and stopped it but two persons fled in the dark and the driver was nabbed. He revealed the names of the two as Manu Sharma and Babu Sharma. 
 
 Police later arrested the accused. The statements of witnesses were recorded and after completion of necessary formalities, challan against the accused was presented in the court for trial in accordance with law. During trial of the case, the accused pleaded not guilty. The additional Public prosecutor for the state pleaded for punishment to the accused on the basis of prosecution evidences in the case. 
 
 The counsel for the convict prayed for taking a lenient view in the matter of sentence on the ground that convict is the only bread winner of his family and this was his first offence, whereas the additional public prosecutor for the state prayed for deterrent punishment.
 
 The court ordered that having considered the respective submissions, it finds no force in the contentions raised by the counsel for convict. The court after taking evidence on the record, convicted Sunny under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 186 (Obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) of the IPC. 
 
 
