AHMEDABAD: A procedural lapse on part of   ATS has resulted in scrapping of charges under the Official Secrets Act, 1923, against two persons who were arrested in Kutch on charges of spying on Indian defence establishments for Pakistan’s   (ISI).

 Gujarat high court has quashed charges under Section 3 of the OSA from the chargesheet filed against Shakur Sama and   from Kutch, who were arrested along with one Saad   in October 2016 by Gujarat ATS. The high court dropped OSA charges because ATS had not obtained required authorization to invoke OSA in this case.
 
 With the HC removing charges under OSA, the trio will now face trial for charges under the IPC and the Information Technology Act. They still face charges for serious offence like waging war against the nation. Rayma was not booked under OSA.
 
 The trio are accused of remaining in contact with an ISI agent and creating difficulties for national security by parting with information with the agency of the neighbouring country regarding the border between Pakistan and India in Kutch as well as information about the Border Security Force.
 
 ATS filed an FIR against Shakur and Alana in October 2016 for charges punishable under the IPC, OSA and IT Act. However, the ATS did not obtain authorization from the central government for invoking OSA for leaking secret official documents. Yet OSA was invoked and a chargesheet was filed.
 
 After registering the FIR in November 2016, the ATS obtained sanction from the Centre to invoke OSA in February 2017. Both the accused urged a sessions court in   to drop OSA charges, but looking at the sensitivity and gravity of charges, the trial court rejected their applications. When the issue came before the HC, it observed that this was a lacuna on part of the ATS and sensitivity of the case does not have any bearing on how the procedure should take place. The HC said that the law is clear that without prior authorization, the court cannot take cognizance of the case under OSA at all.
 
 
