In a span of only three years, Punjabi singer-songwriter   has rendered more than half-a-dozen hits and danced his way into Bollywood with singles like Suit Suit and Ban Ja Rani. The   hitmaker, who featured among Billboard’s top 25 recently, talks to BT about his favourite music directors in Bollywood, his dream collaboration and why his debut on the Billboard charts is special. Excerpts…

  
 
 
  This song has a little mention of alcohol (laughs). All my others songs — like Suit Suit, Ban Ja Rani, Lahore and High Rated Gabru —were all club numbers. In terms of entertainment, Nach Le is a complete package. Entertainment is a broad term and lot many things come under it, so through this song we have tried to make something for the club-going crowd,who also like to enjoy their drinks.
 
 
 
  Yes, of course! Besides, the party songs and my usual singles, I have recorded many songs (from other genres) for some of the upcoming movies. I have recorded a slow, duet and even, romantic songs for them. 
 
  
 
 
  I have done one song for Luv Ranjan’s movie and recorded one more for Irrfan sir’s next. Then we have the revamped version of High Rated Gabru that Remo D’Souza has shot for his upcoming film, Nawabzaade. It has Shraddha Kapoor and Varun Dhawan making guest appearance in the film for this song. Besides, my own singles are going to be out soon.
 
  
 
 
  From Bollywood I would like to collaborate with Salim-Suleimaan. I have heard their music, which is so different from everybody else, especially the technique that they use and their style of composition— it’s unique! The duo’s music has that touch, just like mine (laughs). The harmony, the way they sing and the way they make other people sing their songs — it’s in a different league. I would love to sing for them.
 
  
 
 
  I don’t know, I have never thought about it. Collaborations happen spontaneously. If it has to be a planned, conscious decision, then I would like to collaborate with Bruno Mars. That’s my dream!
 
  
 
  I love my God and whenever I want something, I pray to Him and my wish is fulfilled. That’s my success mantra. Everybody can be happy and successful, be in their own zone if they ask for what they want with a sincere heart. I would not like to take credit for all the hard work that I have put in. It’s all because of the Almighty. Whatever I have or will get in the future is because of Him. 
 
  
 
 
  Very nice! I feel like I am not only representing independent music, but also contributing to Bollywood. My zone is a little different. It has been my dream to feature on Billboard’s list as I always wanted to make music for India that will make to that list. I have always wanted to take Indian music to an international platform someday, even if it is on number 100.I enjoy independent music, even more than Bollywood. I started my career from there (Punjabi music industry) and Bollywood happened much later. Meri rozi roti wahin se shuru hui hain. Having said that, I love it here, too; Bollywood makes you bigger than you already are.
 
 
  
 
 
