CHANDIGARH: It's been nine months since Chandigarh administration notified On-Demand Transportation Technology Aggregators Rules and made it mandatory for the app-based cabs to install panic button to ensure the safety of the passengers. However, the online cabs operating in the city are yet to install the panic button. In Chandigarh, a large number of app-based cabs are plying on a daily basis without this mandatory alert system.

 Taking into consideration the safety of the passengers, the policy framed by   administration, which was notified on April 6, 2017 and notification dated May 2, 2016, issued by ministry of road transport and highways, the aggregators have to make a provision of a panic button for the use of the passengers. These panic buttons will alert the control room of the aggregator as well as the local police without any hindrance or interference by the driver.
 
 The aggregators operating in the city have complied with most of the provisions mandated in the On-Demand Transportation Technology Aggregators Rules except the 'panic button'. The aggregators have failed to comply with the 'panic button' rule despite the local authorities taking up the issue with them.
 
 Additional secretary, state transport authority (STA), Rajiv  , said the web-based   aggregators are of the opinion that they have security features available in their mobile application and hence have not installed the system in their cabs. "The firms had submitted in writing that their mobile application has all the required security features," said Tiwari. As per the deadline set by the union ministry, all the web-based taxi operators have to install panic button in their vehicles by April 1.
 
 Tiwari said they will ask the operators to comply with the direction before the lapse of the deadline set by ministry, failing which will initiate action against the erring operators.   and Uber are the two major players operating in Chandigarh.
 
 When contacted, Ola spokesperson said safety of its customers and driver partners is their topmost priority. "Ola's in-app features and programs ensure a safe and convenient mobility experience for its customers. The app is equipped with an SOS button, live GPS tracking to share ride information, mobile number masking, and feedback on ride quality with ratings on ride completion, amongst other features. All of this enables a consistent experience for the users. In case of an emergency, customers can also reach out to Ola's 24x7 helpline, directly from the app." said the spokesperson.
 
 The spokesperson said, "Before coming on board, our driver partners go through stringent security checks like background and document verifications." The company assured to comply with the direction before the deadline. Despite repeated attempts, Uber officials were unavailable for comments. 
 
 
