MANGALURU: A tableau which was part of   was seized in   allegedly for depicting a cow slaughter scene that could incite tension in the communally sensitive district. 

 The installation shows a man in a skull cap and another in a lungi stabbing a cow with knives.
 
  While a source, who is part of the investigation, said the tableau had been seized due to the incendiary scene, police maintained that it was the Regional Transport Office (RTO) that had taken the action as the vehicle violated provisions of the Indian Motor Vehicles Act. RTO officials admitted that the vehicle had no records but said police had seized it due to the insensitive depiction. The vehicle is now at the Sullia police station. 
 
 "We haven't seized the vehicle. RTO has done it because it violated rules," superintendent of police BR Ravikanthegowda told TOI. "But we have clicked pictures of the tableau and sent it to the legal department. We are awaiting a report. Action will be taken if the report suggests that the tableau violates laws."
 
  Felix D'Souza, regional transport officer of Puttur, said the vehicle bearing the tableau had no records. "The district deputy commissioner and Puttur assistant commissioner asked me to inspect the tableau. There were no number plates, no papers in the vehicle. In addition, they have modified the vehicle. We have submitted a report to the police," he said. 
 
  A senior road transport official said the tableau was covered in plastic as soon as the police seized it. "It's a provocative depiction. Between images of PM Narendra Modi and BJP activists killed in the recent past, there is this installation showing a man in a skull cap killing a cow. That is the reason police have seized the vehicle." 
 
 He added that the vehicle was likely to remain in the station because anyone claiming it would be booked for on charges of inciting communal tension and the case will be a non-bailable offence.
 
  
 
 Local BJP leaders were unfazed about the tableau and argued that they had only portrayed the reality. "We used the same tableau in Madikeri. How did the police have no objection there? Here, the police have acted at the behest of district minister B Ramanath Rai," said Monappa Bhandary, a BJP leader and a former MLC.
 
 
