HYDERABAD: Threat of demolition looms over the decades-old war memorial abutting the Parade Grounds in Secunderabad. It is the first memorial set up in honour of soldiers, who laid down their lives during World War II. The war memorial is likely to be razed as part of road-widening for a proposed skyway between SP Road and Air Force Station, Hakimpet.

 The Roads and Buildings (R&B) department has completed demarcation of properties that will be affected as part of road widening under the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) in Secunderabad Cantonment. Two skyways - RP Road to Air Force Station, Hakimpet, and Paradise Circle to Suchitra X Roads have been proposed to ease traffic.
 
 
 The war memorial is located near the left side of the main gate of the Parade Ground. About 20.50 metres of land will be acquired from the Parade Ground abutting the road leading to Tivoli. In fact, officials have also marked the war memorial platform as ‘temporary bench mark’ for land acquisition.
  
  
 
 According to INTACH Hyderabad convener P Anuradha Reddy, the 20-foot tall war memorial was built in 1950s in memory of soldiers, who sacrificed their lives during World War II.
 
 “The war memorial pays tributes to soldiers in four languages - English, Telugu, Kannada and Marathi. The bronze plate attached to the war memorial was stolen some time ago,” Anuradha Reddy told TOI.
 
 Later another war memorial ( ) was built inside the Parade Ground in memory of soldiers, who sacrificed their lives in Kargil War, she said.
 
 The war memorial stands as a central attraction on SP Road and   stretch.
 
 According to sources in local military authority (LMA), there are no records about the war memorial and when it was set up. “We are aware that the war memorial will be affected under SRDP,” a Defence official said.
 
 Apart from this war memorial, another pylon may also  . The pylon is located on the   It was set up to mark the inauguration of works taken up as part of upgradation project on   between Hyderabad and Ramagundam. The then Prime Minister, PV Narasimha Rao, unveiled the pylon on July 7, 1991.
 
 The pylon was neglected by the governments and it is almost dilapidated. The material used during Metro rail construction was dumped in the vicinity of the pylon. The R&B department will require 17.50 metres of Gymkhana Ground‘s land for road widening.
 
 R&B officials said they have only demarcated the extent of land required for the projects. Since the land belongs to the Defence ministry, work would begin only after securing permission from the Centre.
 
 
