GURUGRAM: Green   wrote to the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF&CC) on Tuesday, alleging that the Haryana State Pollution Control Board ( ) recently provided incorrect information on the   waste treatment plant ( ) in a report submitted to the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) committee of the Union ministry.

 According to activists, the information about groundwater contamination around the Bandhwari WTP was not presented clearly in the report. “No lining was put in place around the 150 feet-deep mining pit, which was built in 2010, before waste was dumped in it. However, the board in its report has written that the lining and proper concretisation of the pit was carried out before dumping of waste. Also, when asked about groundwater contamination due to leachate, the board simply said that a leachate treatment plant is under construction and will be ready soon. The board doesn’t provide satisfactory explanation on groundwater contamination which has already taken place and was verified by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) in one of its reports,” said Vaishali Rana Chandra, an environmentalist and a resident of Gwal Pahari which is located close to the WTP.
 
 The foundation stone for a waste-to-energy plant at Bandhwari was laid by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on April 13. The project includes door-to-door waste collection by an MCG-appointed agency, segregation of waste, composting of organic waste and converting it into energy. It is estimated to cost Rs 450 crore. However, many residents’ groups and environmentalists have been raising concerns over it.
 
 The public hearing on the issue was conducted on March 21 before HSPCB prepared the report which was submitted to the EIA committee. The report provides answers of 16 questions raised by villagers and green activists during the meeting.
 
 Vivek Kamboj from Haryali, an environmental NGO, who filed a petition in   demanding relocation of the plant, said, “The report seems to be propaganda of what MCG and a company hired by MCG plans to do at the site. When asked about the groundwater and air pollution to be caused by the waste-to-energy plant, the report says groundwater reports have been submitted in NGT and adequate air pollution control devices will be installed by the company to control air pollution. There is a need to refer to CPCB’s groundwater report submitted in NGT in September 2017.” 
 
 Activists also alleged that the recommendations by the pollution board were in violation of the solid waste management (SMW) rules, 2016. “HSPCB is recommending a holistic approach by negating decentralised garbage collection and recovery of recyclable material. This recommendation is in clear violation of SWM rules. So they are… defaulters of the Supreme Court’s orders of (ensuring) decentralised SWM rules. Are they trying to (provide) benefits to some company or individuals with such recommendations?” questions the letter written by Chandra to MoEF&CC.
 
 When contacted, a senior HSPCB official said, “As we are a regulatory authority, we have provided all the questions raised during the public meeting to the EIA. The questions will be answered during a meeting of MCG and the project proponent (the private company appointed by MCG) with the EIA committee. They have to provide satisfactory reply to the committee. Only then, the project will be approved.”
 
 
 
