Varapuzha was tense on Tuesday with BJP and the family Sreejith S R, who died allegedly due to custodial torture, claiming that he was not present during the attack at the house of   who committed suicide on Friday.

 However, police said they arrested him on Friday night based on statement given by Vasudevan’s son that Sreejith was one of the 14 persons who attacked their house. Vasudevan had committed suicide soon after the incident.
 
 Stating that the police may have arrested Sreejith S R confusing him to be another person with the same name, Vineesh, son of Vasudevan, who suffered a deep wound on his hand in the attack, said that he didn’t see the deceased youth at the house on the day of the attack.
 
 “The Sreejith about whom I complained against also stays in the same locality. Cops are yet to arrest any of the main accused as per our complaint,” said Vineesh.
 
 Manu, a friend of the alleged custodial torture victim said Vineesh and Sreejith S R were close friends.
 
 “They confused Sreejith S R with another Sreejith who is also known as Thulasidas. Many others in custody are also innocent. The inability of the cops to arrest the first three accused and the sixth accused shows that they were trying to make do with whomever they got in the raids that night,” said Manu.
 
 Shyamala, mother of Sreejith S R, who died in police custody said her son was at home when the attack on Vasudevan’s home happened.
 
 “Vasudevan’s son had come to our house to ask him whether he was going to work that day. But my son chose to stay home as it was the temple festival. He is wrongly blamed and that is why he resisted the arrest leading to the brutal assault,” said Shyamala.
 
 According to Sreejith’s next-door neighbours, he was sleeping on the portico of the house when the cops approached him.“They took him away locking his arms as soon as he told them that his name was Sreejith. A few minutes later they returned as if they were looking for someone else. They then arrested his brother Sajith as well. Sreejith was beaten up as he was resisting custody while Sajith was not attacked as he went with them without much resistance,” said Saraswati, a neighbour.
 
 Shyamala said that Sajth was at work when the attack on the house happened. “His employer, an aluminium fabrication contractor, had told us that he was with them on the day of the attack of Vasudevan’s house. How can my sons be involved in the crime if they were not even there?” said Shyamala.
 
 Divakaran, brother of Vasudevan, who was attacked on last Thursday (the incident which triggered off the attack on his brother’s house) said several persons were involved in the incident. “Many persons had stormed the house on the day and I don’t know who all were there. I was in shock but my main complaint was against Sumesh, who attacked me first for no reason. My family had met with him and others to question them about the attack on me which prompted them to attack the house and assault Vasudevan,” said Divakaran.
 
 Sreejith S R was allegedly arrested by a special squad of the rural police. The squad members and the local police unit including the SHO GS Deepak are facing allegations of custodial torture.
 
 
