CHENNAI: In the run-up to his Class XII results which will be out on Wednesday, R Ramesh and his family have been busy making back-of-the-envelope calculations to see if he would make it to a government medical college in the state. His parents have already started talking to banks for educational loans in case they need to pay higher tuition fees for admissions in deemed universities.

 Admissions to state medical colleges, ESCI, Annamalai University and self-financing colleges affiliated to the state university are made by the state selection committee of the directorate of medical education based on NEET scores and 69% reservation. While the official NEET answer key is yet to be made public by the  , almost all private tutorials released it by May 10. 
 
 “My nephew lost close to 80 marks for marking wrong answers especially in physics. With a 270 score, many students in BC category made it to self-financing colleges last year. If more students have lost out like him, he may stand to gain,” Ramesh’s uncle Rajendran Kumar said. 
 
 Rajendran says that unlike last year, all students and parents know there is no escape from the national entrance exam. But counsellors and training institutions say competition may get tougher this time. “Many students who did not make it last year have repeated NEET and some smart kids have ensured they get no negative marks,” said   S, a tutor at one of the city’s NEET training centres. “Many are in the 275-310 bracket and are not sure if they will make it to government colleges,” she added.
 
 Agents have been using this period to make a killing – at least three agents approached by TOI promised to “reserve” seats in deemed universities and self-financing colleges of   and   although most colleges have said on their websites that admissions would be centralised. “Seats can’t be reserved in advance easily because admissions are not in the hands of colleges anymore,” said selection committee secretary G Selvarajan.
 
 Admission for deemed universities will be done by the directorate of health services, New Delhi, through online counselling. “Seats are returned only after two rounds of counselling and mop-up. The colleges will have to fill them based on the merit of the rank list released by the state or central authorities,” he added.
 
 
