NEW DELHI: The   shifting its headquarters from 11, Ashoka Road to   in the capital is set to put pressure on other parties operating from government bungalows in the   (LBZ). Currently, 10 bungalows and houses are occupied by political parties, which includes the two by BJP and   occupying four, sources said.

 
 TOI has learnt that the BJP will operate from the new headquarters from Monday, though there was no word on when the party will surrender the 11, Ashoka Road bungalow. Government officials said the party had not sent any communication yet. Sources said the new Congress headquarters will be ready by November 18. Besides the two major parties, the head office of BSP is located in the LBZ at 12, Gurudwara Rakabganj Road. The NCP, Shiv Sena, Trinamool Congress and BSP are yet to take plots for their party offices in Delhi.
 
 "Each political party that has been allotted land is supposed to build its office and vacate bungalows. There is a huge shortage of government accommodation," an official said. The housing and urban development ministry has put the Congress on notice to vacate bungalows, including its headquarters, the Youth Congress head office and a house in Chanakyapuri. The party has failed to shift even three years after it was allotted a plot.
 
 Though the central government started allotting land to political parties to enable them to shift out of the LBZ following a Supreme Court order over a decade ago, sources said Congress was supposed to vacate 24 and 25, Akbar Road way back in the 1970s. The party had got a plot on Rajendra Prasad Road to construct its headquarters. However, after building Jawahar Bhawan, the plot was transferred to Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, which is a Congress forum.
 
 Sources said after Congress was allotted a plot in June 2010 on Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg, it was reluctant to have an address on the street named after the saffron leader. The party changed the entrance gate of the upcoming headquarters to Rouse Avenue and address now will be 9-A, Rouse Avenue. Sources said other parties have declined to take the plots offered to them and have demanded bigger ones or locations of their choice.
 
