NEW DELHI: Joining the nationwide outrage over   and   rape incidents, chief minister Arvind   on Sunday demanded stringent laws to prevent   of women. He alleged that the UP CM and the entire state machinery were engaged in “protecting” the BJP MLA accused of rape in Unnao. He also alleged that BJP ministers and workers were holding protests in support of the rape accused in Jammu & Kashmir.

 “Fast-track courts should complete trial within six months and capital punishment should be given to those convicted of raping a minor. This should be implemented immediately,” Kejriwal said at a dharna near Rajghat where Delhi Commission for Women chief Swati Jaihind is on indefinite hunger strike over the same demands.
 
 In the next session of Delhi assembly, the AAP government plans to move a Bill for amendments in IPC and CrPC.
 
 Kejriwal, however, claimed that none of the laws passed in Delhi assembly in the last three years have been approved by the central government. He hoped that the indefinite fast by Jaihind will move the Centre to heed her demands in the wake of the national outrage over the two rape incidents.
 
 Jaihind has made these demands in a letter to PM Narendra Modi. On Sunday evening, Jaihind tweeted her apprehension that police might take her away from the site near Rajghat at night. “The DCP has come with force and fake reports of doctors to say that my life is at stake. I am fine. I want to consult private doctors but they are not allowing me. Why is PM Narendra Modi afraid?” she tweeted.
 
 Seeking a strong system that can prevent people from daring to rape, Kejriwal appealed to people to join hands in raising the demands. “I came here as a father for the safety of my daughter. As the CM of Delhi, I am worried about the safety of the women of the city,” he added.
 
 Alleging that “the FIR was not lodged for several months in Unnao rape case and the state government tried to protect the accused MLA”, Kejriwal claimed it was an attempt to send a dangerous message that “BJP MLAs indulging in such crimes would be protected.” He said that the “country is ashamed” of such politics.
 
 The CM said that Delhi government is ready to provide funds for the formation of fast-track courts. “I appeal to Delhi HC to inform us how many trial courts and judges are needed to complete all the cases of heinous crime against women within six months. We will provide the funds,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, a protest march was organised by AAP volunteers from Patel Chowk towards the PM residence. The protesters were stopped near Parliament Street police station. “We will not stop until the PM breaks his silence on BJP’s role in protecting the accused,” said AAP functionary Atishi Marlena.
 
 A number of women said they joined the protests because they are fed up of being in fear all the time they are outdoors. A few of the volunteers were with their daughters carrying placards to voice their demands. Many college students also joined the protest led by AAP Delhi convener Gopal Rai and minister Imran Hussain.
 
 
