Actress, theatre artist and social activist  , known for her impressionistic work in  , was recently in Lucknow for a private event. Dressed in black the 'Arth' and 'Umrao Jaan' actress looked flawless and stunning. Expressing her emotions for her second home, Lucknow, and the joy that she feels in coming here, again and again, the actress shared, "The feeling is just wonderful. I just get off at the airport and there is this huge smile on my face. Lucknow ki jo tehzeeb hai, yahan ki jo zubaan hai, jo khana hai, it just brings back a sense of nostalgia, the sense of connecting with my roots in me. This city makes me realize that this is the place where my father studied, this is where he belonged to, this is where he started his writing and this is where he became who he was. Starting with just a small little village Mijwan in Azamgarh and now he is known internationally."
Talking about her muse, her mother  , the actress got a bit emotional and said that her mother meant everything to her. She believes that her mother has helped her in honing her acting skills and is responsible for shaping her personality as well. "You see, she hasn't just sat me down and told me that this is the way acting should be done. But I have learnt my acting and process of osmosis from her and the way she used to get into the skin of the character. Almost about a month before a play, she would go up on the stage and practice her character. She used to do a lot of research on any character and my father used to say that I think I am married to many women as she used to do a lot of experiments with her character. He used to say that today she is an African woman and tomorrow she will be a slum dweller third day koi aur avatar milte rehta hai," said Shabana fondly of her mother. This humorous anecdote involving her parents made Shabana recall one of her with husband  . “Javed saab used to tease me waise hi when I was shooting for the film 'Makdi' in which I was playing a witch. I was experimenting with a lot of looks and makeup with Vishal Bhardwaj. So Javed just popped in and asked what I was doing. So I told him that I was doing makeup tests for the role of a witch in the film. So he just smiled and said, you don’t need any makeup for portraying a witch, just go as you are,” shares Shabana. 
 The' Jazbaa' actress also shares that she was more attached to her mother and her father was the nurturer. "My father was just like a daughter's father. Like usually most fathers are jinki betiyan hoti hain. I shared an equally closed bond with both, but you can say the most intimate has been with my mother than my father. But I cannot compare the two as both their value system were the same. They both believed that art should be used for social change, they both believed in gender equality, they both believed in pluralism, in social justice. I mean there is no dichotomy in their thoughts," said she.
 The actress, who has acted in dozens of films found 'Neerja' movie very close to her heart. Shabana says that the character of   (Neerja’s mother) was challenging for her. "You know the challenging part was when I met her personally. I could connect with her misery and sorrows and then portraying that on screen, that was the biggest challenge for me. I was actually nervous because I wanted to do full justice to the character. That character is still very close to my heart," said the actress. 
 By Prachi Arya
 
