In the realm of transgender rights, Kerala has been making headlines across the nation for its supposedly progressive schemes and measures. 

 However, a well-qualified, well-spoken   from Thrissur, a transgender person by birth, is in a dire situation today, which a common man might not be able to easily relate to. Alleging extreme ostracisation from society owing to which she is denied even a source of income, she has petitioned the district collector of Thrissur for euthanasia!
 
 Her words are firm, but extreme pain is evident in her voice as she tells us, “I filed the petition on May 14, as the right to die with dignity is my fundamental right, as per the recent Supreme Court ruling. I have no other way ahead. I am transgender by birth. It is a physical state which I can’t change. I’m well qualified but am not finding employment; and am facing immense problems in life due to this. I wish to end my life.” Ironically, Suji is the first transperson of the State to cast her vote from this gender identity.
 
 After she filed the petition, there were a few reports that the collector has reached out to her and help is pouring for her, but Suji denies them all. “Nobody has called me — neither the collector nor his officials. I had called health minister K K Shailaja on both of her numbers. She didn’t pick the call, probably she was busy. I also called Department of Social Justice director Nooh P B. He also said that it’s the district collector who should take up the plea. The collector’s office says they need time. But I need a response to my petition. A person won’t apply for euthanasia for nothing,” says the 51-year-old, who is a BSc nursing graduate.
 
 Suji, who was working in the Middle East, lost her job many years ago when a physical examination insisted upon by a newly appointed official termed her as transgender. But after she came back to Kerala, she was alienated by her family though she had three brothers, and has been leading an isolated life ever since. “My parents are no more today. All I have are a few dogs and cats, whose company is my only possession. I did work as a private English tutor for a while but kept losing my students as an increasing number of people had issues with my gender identity,” she say.
 
 How does she survive now? “A few shopkeepers I know provide me essential commodities. ‘You can pay whenever you can,’ they say, but how long can I depend on their mercy? To top it all, the loneliness and the frustration of not being even able to pay an electricity bill make life unbearable for me.”
 Her life in isolation and poor financial status often deprive her of information on opportunities too. “I don’t want to leave Thrissur, for all I have is my house and my pets, whom I cannot abandon. Regardless, I had applied for a job in the Kochi Metro through the office of the Superintendent of Police. However, I don’t think it got forwarded from there.” Didn’t any of the transgender help groups come to her aid? “A few groups in Kochi had called me to deliver a speech in the past and might have even heard of my plight.
 
 But no one has reached out to me offering help. From my personal experience, I don’t feel they can do anything either. It’s only the collector who can do something now.”
  Interestingly, she had applied for euthanasia in 2015 as well, when the then CM Oommen Chandy organised a Mass Contact Programme in Thrissur. “I got no reply, but at that point, it wasn’t a fundamental right. Now it is, and that’s what I am banking on,” she says. 
 
 When we reached out to Thrissur Collector Dr A Kowsigan, he said, “I can understand the kind of frustration that can lead a person to file such a petition. Her situation can be quite painful too. After I received Suji’s letter, Jose Kalayapuram, who runs an institution for the destitute and people with intellectual disabilities in Kollam had expressed his interest in employing her, as Suji is a BSc nursing graduate.” When he was told that Suji expressed a wish to not leave Thrissur, he said, “In that case, we will have to do another round of search within the district." Will the collector be getting in touch with Suji? “Yes, one of these days,” says Dr Kowsigan. 
 
