BENGALURU: Pulling up a   and the smartphone maker for collecting mobile repair charges from a Bengalurean within the warranty period, a city consumer court has ordered them to refund the phone’s full cost to the customer, apart from litigation expenses. 

 On March 24, 2015, HSR Layout resident Madhusudan purchased a   2 handset worth Rs 6,999 on Flipkart. On October 8, Madhusudan realized the phone’s display had gone blank, though he was able to receive calls and the handset was vibrating. He took it to   in Koramangala, an authorized Xiaomi service centre whose representatives informed him about the damaged screen which needed to be replaced for Rs 2,550. He asked them to change the screen. Two days later, an executive from the centre called Madhusudan and informed him that the motherboard was also damaged and suggested he purchase a new phone instead of paying for the damage, which was equivalent to the price of a new handset.
 
 An infuriated Madhusudan demanded service as per the warranty or a full refund for his handset which was only seven months old. When his demands to the service centre and emails to Xiaomi yielded no response, the Bengalurean approached the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Bangalore Urban, against Xiaomi and the service centre on October 15, 2015.
 
 In a litigation lasting over two years, Madhusudan presented his case alone, while Xiaomi, through its counsel, insisted the damage to the phone, including problems with the motherboard, was customer-induced and couldn’t be covered under warranty. Xiaomi’s counsel also presented documents on limited warranty (one year for hardware and six months for battery, charger and other accessories) on the company’s products.
 
 In January, judges of the consumer forum pointed out that the cellphone was under one-year warranty when the problem arose but the Xiaomi service centre illegally collected repair charges, which is an unfair trade practice. When the complainant is entitled to free repair/replacement of the phone within the warranty period, asking him to buy a new handset clearly amounts to deficiency of service on the part of Xiaomi, the judges said.
 
 In its verdict on January 4, 2018, the court ordered   and TVS Electronics Ltd to pay Rs 10,999 to Madhusudan, including a full refund for his damaged handset.
 
 
