BENGALURU:   doctors who will clear a six-month competency-based skill certification training in using ultrasound machines will be permitted to conduct antenatal scanning, officials have said citing a Supreme Court order passed earlier this week.

 On March 14, the apex court had stayed the February 2016 Delhi high court order which scrapped a rule that allowed doctors clearing sixmonth course in ultrasound machines to conduct antenatal scanning. The high court had said the rule was violative of the Prenatal Diagnostic Techniques (PNDCT) Act.
 
 “From now, registered MBBS doctors can take up a six-month course to be conducted by the medical education department and obtain expertise in using the sonography machine to conduct antenatal scanning for pregnant women,” said an officer from the state health and family welfare department.
 The   had moved the Delhi high court, stating that enlarging the category of persons authorised to operate ultrasound machines would lead to ineffective implementation of PNDT Act and the child sex ratio would continue to fall.
 
 ‘Two-year course ideal’
 
 The Centre had defended the rule, citing shortage of doctors with post-graduate qualification in radiology and growing demand of ultrasound services. However, radiologists expressed concerns over the qualification.
 
 “Those who pass the entrance test for a PG seat in radiology and complete the course take nearly five years to start doing antenatal scanning. Radiologists diagnose fetal anomalies through meticulous scanning and observation through ultrasound. How can just a course of some monthsbeequatedtothework of radiologists? The government must conduct a two-year course and thecandidateswho clear that must undergo oneyear training under supervision,” saidDr S Pradeep, HOD, department of radiology, Fortis Hospital.
 Another city-based radiologist said the government has to design the course meticulously and not restrict it to just six months. “If any mistake is made by the doctor during antenatal scanning in analysing the fetal development, there are chances of anomalies not being picked up before the fifth month of pregnancy and there are chances of a baby with anomalies being born. Post 20 weeks, a pregnant woman cannot go for medical termination of pregnancy in India. What if an anomaly is not noticed by such six-month trained doctor? It’s the parents and the baby who would suffer,” she said. The doctor added that such a move would lead to mushrooming of ultrasound antenatal scanning centres across the country and quality would suffer.
 
 However, the move to train doctors is also seen as a positive step by some as many, including ayurveda doctors trained by radiologists, were conducting the scanning without any qualification.
 
 ‘Conduct exam before certifying doctors’
 
 Dr  , vice-president, Indian Radiological and Imaging Association, who works in Bengaluru, said the government must mandate an exam for such courses whether it’s done for six months or two years. “The doctor undergoing such a course must be thoroughly examined at the end of the course, before he/she is certified. Only then can such courses become effective,” he said.
 
 
  
 
