NAGPUR: Decks have been cleared for   rail station proposed at   on Wardha road. G+2 floor huge building of fisheries department has been demolished totally to pave way for G+20 floor Metro rail station building.

 Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited ( ) has demolished the fisheries department’s building with the help of   (NMC) and other departments in last few days. Now a state-of-the-art Metro rail station with commercial shops etc will come up along with  .
 
 Zero Mile stone and premises have remained neglected for years. The state government and also Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) had proposed expansion and beautification of Zero Mile but could not succeed. The NIT in association with Western Coalfields Limited (WCL) planned a good project but had to stop with Mahametro proposing its plan. Now, Mahametro will be utilizing the spaces adjacent to Zero Mile for commercial purposes.
 
 Mahametro official told TOI now works can be commenced anytime. “Design of Metro Rail station and other works is ready.
 
 Mahametro in a press release said, “Modern metro rail station has become a multi-functional entity, integrating transport services with other consumer-related activities. Precisely, this concept has been accepted by Mahametro for Zero Mile station which would be a 20-storey huge structure. Heritage Walk would also come up at the Station and it would be an upmarket plaza. The station would be place for shopping, entertainment, information, rendezvous and many such activities,” he said.
 
 Mahametro added landscaping will also be done at Zero Mile. “It would create a distinct effect and would have features like Timeline Wall, sculptures etc. Aesthetic beauty of station would be enhanced with the plantation to be undertaken there. Shade fabric of existing trees would be retained. Special plants would be placed at vantage points and visual corridors for pedestrians. Efforts are being taken to create a space for all age groups and communities by promoting range of activities. The aim is to invite citizens to come together, plan activities and exhibitions, or just lounge around. Plan is also to identify source of irrigation and type of water conserving irrigation systems. Thus in future, apart from its geographical location, Zero Mile Stone would also be remembered for its Metro Station,” Mahametro said.
 
 
