CHARMINAR: After hearing complaints on encroachment of properties, State Waqf Board officials said that an integrated survey has to be conducted to fix boundaries of private and Waqf lands.

 The officials felt that an integrated land survey would not only facilitate rediscovering records of Waqf properties - which have been illegally occupied by various government and private agencies in the state - but will also provide them with a possibility to get encroachers vacated.
 
 According to records of the first survey commissioner, notified by residual  , Telangana region had 77,538 acres Waqf land, of which 57,432 acres have been encroached upon.
 
 Speaking about the lands in Moula Ali, which residents recently claimed are being encroached, the CEO of Waqf Board, Mohammed   said, "The lands in   belong to three or four institutions. And some lands are under the control of H E H Nizam Trust. We have to conduct a joint survey along with Mandal surveyor to fix the boundaries with specific survey numbers to get a clear picture of encroached lands."
 
 "The survey is important also because we have learnt that some of the lands that were under the control of H E H Nizam Trust were disposed off by the then secretary," Farooqui said.
 
  official said revenue records would be checked with Waqf Board's documents during the land survey and later officials concerned will be persuaded to consider their claim. He said that according to the law, once a property is declared Waqf it always will be Waqf, whether it is occupied by the government department or encroached by private parties.
 
 The issue came to light after the residents of Moula Ali complained about the lack of action about encroached land. They said multiple representations were made about how 49 acres and 11 guntas of land belonging to the   under the   had been encroached by private parties."Several complaints have been filed about the illegal encroachment of land, which are in survey numbers 358/1, 358/2 and 358/3 at Moula Ali in  . But officials have not taken any measures to protect the Waqf properties," Mir Raza Ali, a resident of Moula Ali, said. In January this year, residents of Moula Ali raised objections to how shops and event halls had come on Waqf property.
 
 
