GUWAHATI: Curtains came down on the first two-day investment promotion and facilitation initiative by   government, 'Advantage Assam - Global Investors' Summit, 2018', which saw commitments of investments worth a mammoth Rs 1,00,000 crore. Nearly Rs 70,000 crore of it was committed on day one on Saturday.

 "Assam has shifted from being a geographically handicapped region to the most advantageous destination for all businesses," chief minister   said. He added that Advantage Assam is an initiative for the younger generation of the state. 
 
 "Today is a special day for us and today's success is a reflection of the hard work put in by the team and all our officials for the last one-and-half years. The main ambition of the event, held with the help of our Prime Minister  , is to provide the youngsters of the state with a better tomorrow by taking initiatives today and providing platforms for youth to enhance their skills," the CM said, adding that there are still miles to go.
 
 The summit, which was opened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday, brought some top leaders of India Inc, who with their investment outlay assurances provided the great push to the state to woo Asean member countries. Modi in his speech called the state the heart of India's Act East policy that seeks to connect to the vast southeast Asian region market as well as to the Bhutan-Bangladesh-Nepal bloc.
 
 Over the two days of the summit, 213 delegates from 23 countries mingled with business delegates and government officials. Delegates from Australia, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Canada, Cambodia, Czech Republic, Germany, Hong Kong, Israel, Italy, Indonesia, Japan, South Korea,  , Myanmar, Netherlands, Nepal, Singapore, Thailand, UAE, UK, USA and   exchanged ideas with industrialists from across the country and shared their valuable insights with the state government for evolving business relations in the state.
 
 In the two days, over 100 B2G (business-to-government), and over 300 B2B (business-to-business) meetings were held. A total of 200   were signed over these two days. State industry minister Chandra Mohan Patowary said a cell,   Assam, is being set up to follow up on the implementation of these MoUs.
 
 
