KOLKATA: At least 51  , most of them women, have been   at this year’s  . While 17 have been sent back to their homes with other  , the fate of the rest is uncertain. Rescuers say they can only be traced after the ‘dust’ of the Mela settles and normality returns to Sagar Island. 

 In fact, the count of abandoned persons could rise after proper stock-taking.
 
 TOI had highlighted in its January 7 issue that Gangasagar Mela, the annual pilgrimage on Sagar Island, is emerging as another Varanasi where some families come to dump their old and infirm family members. Several of these abandoned people are now living in various state hospitals.
 
 According to the West Bengal Radio Club, an association of amateur radio operators, 51 persons were reported to be loitering at bus stands and jetties after the pilgrimage ended this year. “Normally, such people land up on pavements outside temples or near markets where they go in search of food. People then inform the police and they are sent to state-run hospitals,” said WBRC secretary Ambarish Nag Biswas. 
 
 This year, WBRC was entrusted by the state government to look for abandoned people and send them back home. 
 
  WBRC launched a web portal — myham.in — for missing persons in association with the state disaster management department and West Bengal Police and traced the homes of 17 persons, including two   men from Nepal. One of them was found unconscious on the Sagar Island beach and had to be treated in hospital. The families of both men had passed through Babughat in Kolkata on way to Sagar Island but did not register at the booth set up by Nepalese consulate there to keep tabs on the movement of pilgrims from their country.
 
 “After the mela, members of WBRC brought the two — Baijunath and Chandreswar — to our booth. It seems their families had intentionally stayed away from the booth as they had plans to abandon them. After gathering details of the locations of their homes from them, we arranged for their travel to Nepal with other pilgrims,” an official at the Consulate General of Nepal in Kolkata said. The rest whose families could be traced belong to Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha. There was one woman from Bongaon in North 24-Parganas who was sent back.
 
 “As soon as we located pilgrims who had been abandoned, we began announcing their details on public address system. We also started searching for groups of pilgrims who may have come from where they belong. When nobody turned up, we got hold of other pilgrims from their locality,” Nag Biswas added.
 
 
