CHENNAI: They were built 1,300 years ago when Pallava architecture was at its peak, but today, illegal ‘modern’ structures are casting a shadow on them. These are the protected monuments of  , but not as celebrated as the   and the Five Rathas and where entry is free.

  
  
 
 Structures near these Archaeological Survey of India’s ( ) notified monuments have not only violated ban on constructions within the specific area, but have taken the sheen off Mamallapuram’s aesthetics. While emphasis is laid on keeping the Five Rathas and Shore Temple encroachment free, prohibited areas of other monuments, where constructions are completely banned, have been taken over by illegal structures.
 
 A visit by TOI to Mamallapuram found flagrant violations across the town. A few two-storeyed buildings have come up around the fence of the ASI-protected Saptha Kanni monument on East Raja Street in gross violation of the Ancient Monuments and   and Remains (Amendment and. Validation) Act, 2010 that prohibits constructions within 100m from the boundary of protected sites. Constructions can be done within 100m to 300m of the notified site only after obtaining permission from the ASI. A hotel is also operating near the protected Mukundanayanar Temple located off ECR.
 
  
  
 
 ASI sources told TOI that about 150 notices were issued to violators between 2010 and 2017. “It is difficult to act against the violators due to little cooperation from the local body which has to act against illegal structures. The Act has provisions to lodge police complaints against unauthorised constructions, but we are unable get cases filed,” an ASI official said.
 
 Sharmila Ganesan, co-convenor of the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage ( ), Tamil Nadu chapter said some hotels in Mamallapuram had not only indulged in violations to the ancient monuments act, but also violated the Coastal Regulation Zone. “All forms of encroachments around the monuments are an eyesore. Unless there is a joint action steering committee for Mamallapuram, like the Hampi World Heritage Area Management Authority, comprising officials from the ASI, local body, Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation, hoteliers and local population, it will be difficult to protect monuments in and around Mamallapuram,” she said.
 
 Advocate P Sanjai Gandhi, who was instrumental in obtaining geographical indications for Mamallapuram stone sculptures, said steps must be taken to prevent future constructions in violation to the ASI law. “Vehicles should not allowed beyond a point near the ASI-notified sites as it is done at the Taj Mahal. Instead, battery-operated vehicles must be encouraged to commute within the town because pollution affects the ancient monuments,” he said.
 
 When contacted, a Mamallapuram Special Grade Town Panchayat official said the panchayat has not received any complaints from the ASI over illegal constructions around the notified monuments.
 
 
