RAIPUR: An eight-year-old class II student of a government school in Raipur immolated himself and died allegedly after teacher did not allow him to go home despite complaining of stomach pain. 

 Feeling extremely “harassed and disappointed”, the little boy returned home after school, poured kerosene oil upon him and set himself ablaze. 
 
 Raipur police were yet to lodge an FIR in the case saying that they were probing another angle too, as the child's first mother had committed suicide a few years ago and his father had brought third wife recently. 
 
 It was only on Tuesday when Class XI girl student in Durg committed suicide alleging continuous scolding by the school principal and his wife. Series of such incidents of students taking extreme steps after harassment are being reported from the state.
 
 Hailing from Urla region in Raipur, Nageshwar Dehariya, student of Class II at a primary school in   village was rushed to   with 94% burns on Tuesday noon where he succumbed to injuries by late evening.
 
 While parents of the deceased boy stated to police that the boy told them at hospital, “He was too upset when he complained of stomach ache and the head master didn’t allow him go home.”
 
 According to  , school head master Lileshwar Tiwari said that the boy remained absent from school frequently and he had come to school after 15 days of absent on Tuesday. 
 
 “Few minutes after the classes started, the boy wanted to go home. He didn’t complain of stomach ache but he wanted to go to relieve himself. The head master who was taking the class asked him to sit in class and not make excuses. But Nageshwar again said he wanted to go to washroom and head master asked him to return soon. Within an hour school was informed about the boy setting himself ablaze,” Chandravanshi said adding that the scene was verified with other students present in class too.
 
 When teachers reached his home, the boy was taken to hospital. 
 
 Boy’s parents weren’t at home when he reached back and he poured kerosene oil upon him and immolated self. 
 
 Three neighbours who heard his screams rushed for his rescue and doused fire before informing his parents. He later succumbed to burns. 
 
 During probe, police found in attendance registers that the boy remained absent but the reason for his absence was yet to be known. 
 
 Police said no FIR was lodged as yet and statements were being recorded from students and teachers. 
 
 Police was also investigating other angles in the matter because after the boy’s mother committed suicide few years ago, his father married another women who eloped recently and the man had recently married for the third time.
 
