MUMBAI: In a major setback to K S   Enterprises, the   on Tuesday upheld its removal as developer in an integrated slum rehabilitation scheme of 2006 over inordinate delay. 

  
  
 
 Under the scheme, Chamankar was required to rehabilitate close to 800 slum dwellers in Andheri, construct   in New Delhi,   state guest house at Malabar Hill and an   complex in Mumbai. While holding it responsible for delay in implementation of the scheme, in June 2017, Slum Rehabilitation Authority ( ) CEO Vishwas Patil terminated Chamankar’s appointment as developer.
 
 Around 200 slum dwellers have been rehabilitated in the past decade while others continue to languish in transit tenements. Chamankar had appealed against Patil’s order before an apex grievance redressal committee, a high-powered panel headed by additional chief secretary, housing, which confirmed the CEO’s order in November 2017. The committee directed three affected slum societies to hold fresh elections to appoint a new builder to complete the rehabilitation. It also faulted Chamankar for having more of a commercial interest than in rehabilitation as it involved third parties, including L&T Asian Realty Project, to raise over Rs 800 crore for the project.
 
 A bench of Justices R M Borde and R G Ketkar on Tuesday held that the SRA and the committee were right in holding Chamankar responsible for “inordinate delay based on the material on record”. The court, though, extended for eight weeks an arrangement that bars slum societies from holding a general body meeting to appoint a new developer and for SRA to take steps.
 
 Chamankar had moved the high court last November to challenge the legality of the order. It said permissions from several departments were pending and hence work was delayed. Its counsel Anil Sakhare and K G Munshi argued the scheme was the result of a “policy decision of Maharashtra government’’. The firm said SRA had no right to deprive it now of free-sale development rights after “substantial” work is over.
 
 State lawyer Jyoti Chavan said the state was considering terminating the agreement. The state affidavit said criminal proceedings are pending against Chamankar. The enforcement directorate has alleged that Chamankar secured the RTO project by misrepresentation and in connivance with Chhagan Bhujbal and other public servants and that, by bypassing norms, the project of Maharashtra Sadan was given to it on a platter. The project “amounted to Rs 4,700 crore, at the price in 2006,” said a 2017 HC order. SRA counsel Prasad Dhakephalkar said it was within the CEO’s power to issue a notice and both orders are well-reasoned.
 
 
