GURUGRAM: MCG has drawn up a plan to revive three water bodies in the city, at  ,   and  , as a part of its ‘rejuvenation of urban ponds’ project. 

 Officials said the rejuvenation work includes restoration of water in the ponds, construction of walkways, beautification, landscaping and building walls around them, whose specifications will vary from site to site.
 
 The rejuvenation of the water body at Sukhrali has already started. “Rejuvenation of the Sukhrali water body will cost Rs 65 lakh, and will cover an area of three acres,” said a senior MCG official. 
 
 The civic body has also floated a tender for the water body at Basai, which has already been redeveloped in a pilot project but the exercise must be undertaken all over again because of lack of maintenance. “The scope of work is more in Basai. We also plan to create a ghat with steps leading to the water,” said the MCG official. 
 
 The proposal for the Basai water body is yet to be approved by the corporation’s finance and control committee, while work on the Jahajgarh pond is in initial stages, with the engineering wing having so far only submitted the proposal. 
 
 The cost estimate of the project is upwards of Rs 2 crore, which is why it is likely to be sent to Chandigarh for approval. The Jahajgarh water body is much larger, and the land surrounding it offers scope to be turned into a park-like space for people to spend time with their friends and families.
 
 Officials said the idea is to build themed gardens around the water bodies and turn them into multi-utility spaces. “Overall, the idea is to rejuvenate, preserve and develop these ponds not just from the environmental standpoint, but to also develop them as active urban spaces,” said a senior MCG official in the know. 
 
 Talking about the maintenance of the water bodies, once they are rejuvenated, officials said they will hold discussions with neighbouring resident welfare associations and councillors for the care and maintenance of the areas. 
 
 “In case no one comes forward, we will issue tenders and get an agency to maintain these sites at Rs 3 per sq m,” said the official. Another 12 water bodies are also in the pipeline for rejuvenation, he added.
 
 The project, though, comes with its limitations. In the past, MCG has had trouble allotting tenders for rejuvenation projects. Sukhrali could only be allotted after four rounds of tenders, while the Basai tender has already been floated thrice. 
 
 Maintenance is also a huge challenge, given that Basai was only revived last year, but lack of maintenance rendered the exercise futile.
 
 
