HYDERABAD: After registering a case against   director, planning, K Purushottam   and unearthing his Rs25 crore worth disproportionate assets (DA), an   inspector has been suspended, while two other officials were transferred from their posts. Though ‘poor performance’ was mentioned as the official reason for the three changes, their timing has raised eyebrows as ACB has already started probing into the possibility of someone alerting the tainted official about the DA case registered against him.

 ACB had registered the DA case against   Reddy on January 10, 2018, and while investigators were getting ready to raid his properties, he went on leave the next day. Though he applied for leave from January 11 to January 26, he did not report for work on January 27 and even while ACB sleuths were searching for him, Reddy surrendered before court on February 16.
 
 
  
 
 As Reddy locked his house at   in Banjara Hills and left with the family members, ACB sleuths could only conduct searches at the property on February 25 after obtaining his custody. “The inquiry into the assets of Purushottam Reddy started over a year ago. Except for top officials and the investigating officer not many people in the bureau were aware of the registration of case and the details were also submitted to the court in a sealed cover. So, Purushottam going on sudden leave immediately after the case was registered surprised us and an internal inquiry was conducted,” an ACB official said.
 
 
 During the inquiry, the role of an ACB official appeared suspicious as he was in contact with the accused officer. Similarly, the role of another official, who handles the logistics wing of the ACB, also raised suspicion. As a result, the ACB DG has suspended an official and repatriated another official to his parent department.
 
 
 On Wednesday, a DSPrank officer, who is about to get promoted as additional SP, was transferred from the city range and posted at the ACB headquarters. The official participated in the searches conducted in Purushottam Reddy’s case. For the record, ACB DG J Poornachandar Rao said all the developments were related to performance of the officials and has got nothing to do with the DA case registered against the HMDA officer.
 
