TRICHY: In yet another case of alleged   of a job-seeker by a travel agency, two people left a man stranded in Indonesia where they took him promising a job in Canada. This was revealed in a complaint lodged by the victim, Tamilarasan, 34, of   village near Manapparai with commissioner of police (CoP) A Amalraj on Monday.

 In the complaint, he alleged that Gnanasekar and Thiruvenkadam, who run a travel agency near   bus stand, cheated him of Rs 6.75 lakh by giving false assurance of arranging a job in Canada. According to his complaint, the cheating took place between September 2016 and February 2017. The victim alleged that the accused duo had approached him promising to get him the job of a server in a restaurant in Canada. They also demanded the amount in cash, which he paid. The duo arranged for the papers required for his travel. Following this, Gnanasekar allegedly took him to Indonesia claiming that the latter could move to Canada from there. However, according to the complainant, the travel agent left him in Indonesia and was untraceable. Unable to either go to Canada or return to Trichy, Tamilarasan alleged that he had no other option but to stay back in Indonesia.
 
 However, he managed to return to India after five months and tried to get back his money from Gnanasekar. Since his efforts failed to yield a favourable result, he lodged a complaint with the police.   police said that they registered a case based on prima facie evidence of the complaint. An officer said that they tried to contact the two accused persons but they were yet to be traced.
 
 Incidences of job aspirants being conned by travel agents are not new to Trichy. A fake job agent, Akbar Ali, 46, a resident of Singarayar colony, BB Kulam, Madurai was arrested by the city crime branch police for cheating a Trichy youth of Rs 4.8 lakh on the promise of getting him a lucrative job in Canada in July 2017. The job racket came to light after the agent left the youth L Ilamparithi, 22, a visual communication graduate from Lalgudi, stranded in   “en route to Canada”. He managed to returned to India with the help of the Indian Embassy after nearly a month’s stay there.
 
 
