PUNE: Two years and 2,400 cases of murder, abduction and attempt to murder.   is becoming the hotbed of crime.

 The Pune rural police attribute the rise in crime to the exponential increase in the population in the past decade with the Chakan industrial estate of the   (MIDC) attracting thousands of workers from states such as Uttar Pradesh,   and  .
 
 As per the 2011census, Chakan had a population of about 42,000. And within barely six years since then, the number is nearing 3 lakh. In contrast, the police do not have the manpower in proportion.
 
 
  
 
 “It is the need of the hour to strengthen the force in the industrial town,” senior inspector (Chakan police station)   said.
 
 Currently, the police station has 70 personnel. They include four officers of the rank of assistant police inspector and subinspector. “With this strength, we not only look after the security of thousands of acres in the Chakan MIDC areas but also of 70 villages around the town,” Yadav said.
 
 Police records reveal that 2016 saw 1,200 criminal cases and the number soared to 1,328 the following year. This is an alltime high for the police station. The maximum cases are of house break-ins, fatal accidents, robbery and industrial crimes.
 
 Another factor leading to the spurt in criminal activities is the tussle between political groups for securing contracts to supply labour and procure scrap in the industrial areas.
 
 “These groups are politically strong and it is difficult for us to take stringent action against them. They not only terrorise people but also extort money from traders in the town,” a local crime branch officer told TOI.
 
 “If the companies do not meet their demands, they start threatening the employees and the industrialists. Most people do not register complaints to avoid further trouble. This makes the criminals bolder. Despite requests to the industries to share such information with us for sterner actions, the response has been poor,” the officer said .
 
 Apolice officer emphasized the need of better infrastructure. “Most employees either depend on company or private transport or often take lift from private vehicles,” he said.
 
