LUCKNOW: Spiritual guru Sri Sri Ravi Shankar on Tuesday said he was "shocked and saddened" to note that the   ( ) thinks he was inciting terrorists and anti-social elements, while in fact he was working for a non-violent solution of the Ayodhya dispute. 

  The Art of Living founder, replying to the letter sent to him through AIMPLB general secretary   earlier this month, said the accusations are "completely baseless". 
 
  "I have always strongly condemned any kind of violence irrespective of its nature or location. For 61 years of my life, I have never by word, thought or action wished ill or hurt anybody and for 41 years of my public life, I have always worked for amity, peace and spiritual upliftment," he wrote. 
 
  On March 3, Sri Sri had written an open letter to AIMPLB saying a Syrian civil war-like situation in India would break out if the Ram temple was not constructed in Ayodhya, given the matter's sensitivity. 
 
  In its letter, the AIMPLB rejected Sri Sri's proposal for an out-of-court settlement in the matter and said he was inciting an atmosphere of hate when he should be asking all, including Hindus, to wait for the SC judgment. 
 
  "In a country that has people from different religions and sects living together, it is only possible to maintain peace by following directions of court and lawmakers," the letter had said. 
 
  Sri Sri replied to this letter on Tuesday, stating while there was no question of dishonouring or disrespecting the   order, "the whole effort (of mediation) is aligned with the SC's suggestion given by former Chief Justice JS Khehar that an amicable settlement of the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid dispute was a better course than insisting on judicial pronouncement." 
 
 The guru wrote that "Ram temple is not the property of one person or an organisation but a matter of faith for the entire community. An emotional issue like this should be viewed from a realistic point of view."
 
 Putting forth his stand, Sri Sri said he had apprehensions regarding the issue and was "in no way one-sided or in any way encouraging anti-social elements," and that his intention should be understood as creating good for both communities.
 
 Having held several meetings with people of both communities on the Ayodhya dispute since last year, Sri Sri also said he would want to sit with AIMPLB to discuss the Ayodhya dispute as well as other issues concerning society.
 
 
