Actor  , who is quite vocal on social media on topical issues, says there are industry people, who applaud her for taking a stand.
On the social media,   had taken on  , with whom she had shared screen in ' ', over his rape remark controversy and acquittal in the black buck case.
 Due to the protest called by Karni Sena, seeking a ban on Sanjay Leela Bhansali's 'Padmaavat' and in the wake of rape of an eight-old-month girl, the 51-year-old actor took to twitter saying - "Ban rape, ban female foeticide, ban sexual molestation".
 When asked if any celebrity has ever reacted negatively to her comments, Renuka said, "No, not at all! Rather wherever I go, whoever I meet, they (industry people) are very happy that I take a stand as there are times when they can't say certain things and I say it on their behalf."
 She was speaking on the sidelines of trailer launch event of her film '3 Storeys'.
 The film produced by Farhan Akhtar and  's Excel Entertainment and B4U Motion Pictures, also stars Richa Chadda and Pulkit Samrat, among others.
 Talking about the trolls, Renuka further reveals, she was not aware that trolls are also manufactured.
 "I always used to try to change the stance of people, who talk ill. From my co-star Richa, I have learnt how one blocks or reports abuse," she added.
 Richa and Pulkit, who too were present at the event, say, they stay unaffected by the trolls.
 "Those who troll often look for attention, so I block them. When I see someone misbehaving with other celebrities, I report abuse. One can express their views without using abusive language. Trolls are irrelevant, it is sad that Internet had given importance to lot of people," Richa said.
 On his part, Pulkit says, it is easy to troll anyone, but it is equally easy to block them.
 "Don't waste your energy on trolls.
 
 People should be little responsible while writing anything, we need to respect each other's views and opinions and not get judgemental."
 Renuka is pretty active on social media, but not in films due to her parental responsibilities.
 "My children are young. My elder son is in Class 10, he will give his exams soon. I am a 24x7 mom, so I can't give that much time to films. But once they start going to college, I might be seen often on the screen."
 When the makers of "3 Storeys" approached her for the film, she was stunned and immediately jumped on board to play this part.
 "To sink your teeth in a character that is nowhere close to your real self is a challenge," she added.
 She will also be seen alongside Madhuri Dixit Nene in a Marathi film "Bucket List" and she says, it is always a dream to be working with Madhuri.
 "We are working after 23 years and I am glad I got to work with her again," she says.
 The film '3 Storeys' was earlier scheduled to hit the cinema houses in December, but it has been shifted to March 9.
 "We had to take this decision due to 'Padmaavat'. Lot of films were getting pushed and we moved our film from December 1 to February 8 and now this date. Our story is different and nice we decided to come on a clear window, " Ritesh said.
 Farhan was expected to attend the event, but couldn't as his mother Honey Irani is unwell.
 
