
Last week, a group of 18 spent their Easter break picking up trash in the hills of Kodaikanal. It wasn’t an ordinary clean-up drive, but a plogging party.
 Bengaluru resident Jacob Cherian heard about plogging — the Scandinavian workout trend that combines jogging with picking up rubbish — a month ago, and thought it was perfect for what he’d been doing since buying a house in Kodaikanal. “The hill town has a big garbage problem. So every time I visited, I’d collect trash from the hill behind my house,” says the 35-year-old marketing consultant. When friends showed interest, he decided to host a plogging and camping getaway at his house. Eighteen people from Chennai and Bengaluru signed up, trekking, running and collecting over 25 sacks of rubbish over two days.
 
 Plogging, which takes its name from the Swedish words plocka upp meaning pick up, has been around from 2016, but has started trending globally and in India in the last few months. Its popularity could be due to growing awareness about plastic pollution and the presence of microplastics in food and water. But Cherian says calling his exercise plogging just makes it sound cooler.
 
  
  
 
 “If you say let’s go pick up garbage, people think you’re crazy. No one wants to be that stupid fellow picking up trash alone, but if we do it together, you overcome the stigma. And you can clean up much faster,” says Cherian, who has been asked to organise similar events in Chennai, Mumbai and Kerala.
 Last month, runners in Kochi and Thrissur held plogs, gathered garbage on the run and turned it over to the municipality. Further south, Thiruvananthapuram is gearing up for its first event, while the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation has invited citizens to go plogging during morning walks or runs, and also held a few plogs.
 
 Mumbai-based NGO Earthkids Humanity Foundation views plogging as a way to introduce millennials to environmental causes. It has added yoga, laughter therapy, music, zumba and book donation to its plogging drives. Its first plog in Thane’s Yeoor Hills, which is part of the  , was attended by 250 volunteers who filled two vans with trash while listening to live music. The NGO was surprised by the response. “We have converted trash collection into a joyful celebration,” says Tarun Gautam of Earthkids. The non-profit plans regular plogs to prevent waterlogging in Mumbai during the monsoon.
 
 A big reason for plogging’s popularity is its simplicity. “Anyone can do it anywhere, anytime. All you need is a bag to collect the trash and a pair of gloves to protect your hands,” says Ripu Daman, who is part of a running group in Delhi and has plogged in the city’s Aravali Biodiversity Park and Southern Ridge. It is important not to add more trash in the process of collecting, so it’s ideal to use cloth or reusable bags, or empty plastic bags lying on the road.
 
 “As people who spend time outdoors, runners and cyclists notice trash more,” says Daman, who recently co-founded Ploggers of India, a group on Instagram and Facebook to promote plogging.
 
 According to Swedish health app Lifesum, half an hour of plogging burns 288 calories compared to just 235 calories burned while jogging for the same period. Daman says that ploggers can introduce exercises such as squats, when they bend to pick up litter.
 
 Daniel Langthasa, a musician based in Assam’s Haflong, says plogging inspired him and wife Avantika to start exercising. “We had been procrastinating over starting a workout routine. When we heard of plogging, we thought why not go out in the morning and do our bit. Our small town used to be clean, but now plastic trash and alcohol bottles are everywhere,” he says. Over the last three weeks, the couple has been posting videos and photos of their morning plogs, even inspiring a few friends to join them. “The key is to do it over time. We can’t be sure, but in a small town, it might bring about a change.”
 
 “We need to show everyone that it is not dirty to pick up garbage,” says Cherian. “It is only when we start picking up trash that we will learn to stop throwing trash.”
 
