KOLKATA: Multiple ailments, including a life-threatening one, have failed to dent this youngster’s spirit. An acute lymphatic leukaemia patient,  , a17-year-old student at  , took his Class XI annual exam from a hospital bed on Tuesday. 

 With two more papers to go, Srimon, who was already down with broncho-pneumonia, contracted measles last week, as a result of which he had to be hospitalized on Sunday. Determined not to lose an academic year, the youngster refused to skip the remaining papers and took his exams from hospital on Tuesday. With an intravenous channel inserted in his vein,   wrote his computer application paper under the supervision of a representative of  , which conducts the Class XI exam. His final paper this exam, business studies, is slated for today. “I am exhausted, but I think I had a decent exam,” said the commerce student after the three-hour paper on Tuesday. 
 
 He is admitted to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Cancer Research Institute ( ). Srimon took his exams in school till he fell ill while he was writing his accountancy paper last week. “He had prepared well. So, when he was told to get hospitalized, Srimon was heartbroken. We requested the school to apply to the board and let him take the test from hospital . Thankfully, the school took the matter up and arrangements were made,” said his father,  . Diagnosed with leukaemia at the age of four, the youngster has had a long battle to keep the life-threatening ailment at bay. 
 
 “We had taken him to Mumbai for treatment 13 years ago. After that, he has been treated in Kolkata and his leukaemia is now under control. But he will need at least three more years to regain his immunity that was affected by the illness,” said his father. Though Srimon frequently falls ill owing to his low immunity and has to fight several leukaemia-induced complications, he refuses to buckle under the strain. “He often falls ill during exams but always manages to appear for the tests and clears them, too. He hasn’t ever missed a year,” he said. 
 
 This time, too, Srimon had refused to go to hospital but had to relent following high fever. “Srimon has improved vastly over the years and has no signs of leukaemia now. But he needs a few more years to regain his vitality and immune powers. Till then, he will have to be careful,” said  , director of NSCBCRI.
