KOCHI: After an under-construction building caved in recently in  ,   is planning to impose strict regulations and monitor the construction works of highrises that will have two or three basements. 

 Corporation officials will strictly monitor the construction of highrises that utilize maximum floor area ratio (FAR) in saturated areas like MG Road.
 
 "Construction works that use maximum floor area will be monitored right from the time building permit is issued until the work is completed. We have noticed that many buildings are constructing two or three basements. Given the soil condition in Kochi, such constructions will have to be regulated. We are planning to introduce stricter regulations in this context," said mayor Soumini Jain.
 
 The regulations for such buildings will be framed after consulting geotechnical experts and structural engineers. "The condition of soil in Kochi is different. Ata particular site, hard soil can be found by digging up to 2m whereas for the adjacent property you might have to dig up a lot more to get hard soil," said superintending engineer of the corporation KD Ajayaghosh.
 
 "As far as we conducted inspection, it is found that developing more basement floors should require higher setback area (the space left vacant between boundaries of the premises and the structure. We are giving permit for buildings as per Kerala Municipal Building Rules (KMBR). As of now, KMBR doesn't have such regulations. So, corporation will have to take the initiative of putting some regulations in this regard. On Wednesday, the corporation council is expected to conduct a preliminary discussion in this case," he said.
 
 A technical committee - led by two professors from Government Engineering College, Thrissur - will begin site inspection on Tuesday. "They will look at the causes that led to the collapse of the structure and suggest measures to ensure safety. The collector has also deployed a technical committee. A clear picture on the exact reasons which led to the collapse will be available in a week," Ajayaghosh said.
 
 At the same time, corporation authorities are yet to respond to KMRL's demand that the agency also should be consulted before giving permit to highrises along Metro corridor. According to KMRL officials, they had sent a letter to the district collector suggesting that the agency's approval should also be sought in cases of highrises.
 
 District collector K Mohammed Y Safirulla said that local self-government departments are responsible for issuing building permits as well as introducing restrictions on highrises along the Metro stretch. "It is up to Kochi corporation to look into this matter and take adequate steps," he said.
 
 
