KOLKATA: If you thought the huge number of uncontested seats in the state rural elections will make things easy for the police force on Monday, think again. Those seats—34% of the total count going to polls—have proved to be a headache for the police, who have been burning the midnight oil to draw up a plan to stop intrusion of people from no-election zones into places of contest.

 
 Birbhum is a case in point. Blocks facing contests here are Mohammadbazar, Rajnagar, Mayureswar I and Mayureswar II, comprising only 14% of the total panchayat seats in the districts. Of them, Mohammadbazar and   share borders with Jharkhand and the border is only 10km from the Mayureswar blocks. BJP district president Ramkrishna Roy, in presence of a BJP minister from Jharkhand, held a meeting at Maheshkhola in Jharkhand earlier this week, raising eyebrows at the district administration. Sensing intrusion from the neighbouring state, the Birbhum police have stepped up surveillance on private vehicles, including cars and bikes, to stop the entry of people from there.
 
 But what about “intrusion” from other blocks— Khairashole, Dubrajpur, Rampurhat, Nalhati and Suri — in Bengal over which Trinamool district president Anubrata Mandal has an absolute sway? Police are apparently worried about people coming in from Trinamooldominated Khairashole and Dubrajpur to counter the BJP brigade at Rajnagar. Similarly, chances of intrusion from Rampurhat and Nalhati are high at Mayureswar blocks. Trinamool may also mobilize supporters from Suri and Sainthia to counter the BJP at Mohammadbazar, they fear. “We are aware of the challenge. We can’t check buses and trains but we will ensure no one, except voters, get access to places near polling booths. We have deployed flying squads and civic volunteers to pass on the information,” a senior police officer said.
 
 Tension is already brewing in the sensitive blocks of Hooghly — Khanakul I & II, Arambag, Goghat I & II. Bombs were hurled and bullets flew at Khanakul only recently, prompting the Hooghly police to raid villages there to recover arms. Political leaders have reportedly started contacting people from Khanakul, Arambag and Goghat to “assist their fellowmen in the fray” at poll places, namely Singur, Haripal, Chanditala, Pandua and Balagarh in Hooghly. Hooghly (rural) SP   said, “We are strengthening our presence in sensitive places to stop outsiders from visiting blocks going to polls.”
 
 New faces have been flocking Behrampore and Rejinagar from Domkal in Murshidabad, while some others from Kandi have been deputed at Sagardighi and Farakka.   Congress has engaged private guards at its district office.
 
