PATNA: Patna girl Nikita Sinha won bronze medal in the finale of World Junior Pencak Silat Championship held at   in   on Saturday. She was among 21 selected to represent India at the international round. 

 Nikita told this reporter over the phone from Thailand that she was not satisfied with her performance. “Had I practised more, I would have got gold or silver and brightened my prospects to represent India at the 18th Asian Games to be held in Jakarta in August this year,” said the 17-year-old who has written the CBSE’s Class XII exam in science stream from Loyola High School this year.
 
 Hindi debate:   of St Dominic Savio’s High School was declared the most promising speaker at the 5th edition of Tabish-ul-Hasan Memorial Interschool Hindi Debate-2018 organised by International School (CBSE) on Saturday. 
 
 In the junior category, Radhe Krishna of   got the best speaker award, while the first and second runners-up were Nilesh Narayan of S V M Residential Public School and Pratyaksha Sharma of the host school which also bagged the overall championship trophy.
 
 Shina Noor Ahmad of International School (ICSE) was adjudged the best speaker in senior category. Shina’s schoolmate Gaurang Krishna and Navratra of Mt Carmel High School were the first and second runners-up respectively. The winning team was St Karen’s High School. 
 
 Around ten city schools participated in this competition. School directress Farhat Hasan gave away the prizes and certificates to the winners.
 
 Raza girls’ school: A dental and eye check-up camp was organised at Raza International Girls School on the concluding day of ‘Health and Hygiene Week’ on Saturday. A team of dentists from   gave tips to Montessori children on dental hygiene and the importance of eating healthy food. They were also asked to brush their teeth twice a day. 
 
 Ophthalmologists including Dr Ranjana Kumar, Dr Tarannum Fatima, Dr Rinki Prakash and Dr Ojasvita Singh checked the eyesight of students. School chairman Tarique Raza Khan and principal Shahina Khan were present at the camp.
 
 Admissions under RTE Act: Altogether 2,487 underprivileged children got admission to private schools of Patna under the Right to Education Act in the first phase for which district officials drew lots in three shifts on Saturday. Patna DM Ravi Kumar said the second phase would be completed within 15 days.
 
 Health Camp: A health camp will be organised for the students of Bright Star Kidzee on the institution premises at Bhagwat Nagar on Sunday. A team of four doctors — Dr Amresh Prasad Sinha, Dr Ravishankar Prasad, Dr Ajay Kumar and Dr Udai Raj — will conduct the camp.
 
 
