KOLKATA: The girl gang which took over the reins of at Netaji Bhavan Metro station on International Women’s Day has not had the time to celebrate the momentous occasion yet. However, the enthusiasm was palpable at the station on Friday afternoon. While women   personnel stood guard on the platform ready to resolve any situation, station porters were present near the ticket counters assisting the passengers.

 “We are committed to providing seamless service to our commuters and do not want anything to distract us from our main responsibility. Celebrating our good work later will be more exciting,” said  , the new station superintendent who is steering a team of 25 women.
 
 Netaji Bhavan Metro station, which was the first Metro station in the country in 1984, also became the first in the city to be run by an all-women team on Thursday. From keeping a tight vigil on troublemakers to managing the ticket counters, a group of over 25 women will be managing the operations at the station from now on.
 
 Compliments from friends and families have not stopped pouring in for the members of the group. Even passengers, who were pleasantly surprised at the changeover on Thursday and showed their appreciation by letting out a loud cheer, have encouraged the new staff.
 
 Ghosh started Friday by inspecting the entire station premises to figure out how the commuter experience can be enhanced. “We have to utilise our workforce judiciously and in the best interest of Metro commuters. I will draw up a duty roster keeping that in mind,” she said. The station superintendent also held several meetings with her colleagues where she urged them to keep their enthusiasm high.
 
 “I have told them to focus on their jobs and forget about everything else. Almost all of them have been working for many years and they know their work well. I have told them that if they do their work well they will make all women proud,” said Ghosh.
 
 “When we at   see our women employees shouldering such big responsibilities with such ease we realise that we are on the right track in empowering our women workforce,” said  , chief PRO of Metro Railway.
 
