NEW DELHI: With the goods and services tax ( ) stabilising in a fairly short span of time, the stage could be set for a rationalisation of multiple slabs and further revision of rates of various items, finance minister Arun   hinted in an address here on Saturday.

 "It gives us an opportunity in the times to come to increase its base and rationalise the structure as it continues to evolve," Jaitley told officers at an event to mark the International Customs Day.
 
 The remark is read as an indication that the four rate GST structure (apart from the zero rate slab) could be reduced if revenues remain bouyant and evasion declines. This could also allow the government to consider reducing rates on some items in the higher rate brackets.
 
 Addressing officers of the customs department, the minister said the tax reform measure had ushered in a major change in the indirect tax system of the country and the dynamic nature of the Indian economy and availability of technology tools have impacted the nature of tax administration.
 
 The FM said there were two major challenges before the customs administration which include trade facilitation and sharp detection and enforcement to avoid any tax evasion. This would be key to reduction of the number of rate slabs, a goal that is considered in keeping with a more ideal GST.
 
 In November, the FM had said the rationalisation process in a transition (phase) will continue and that any such measure would depend on revenue buoyancy.
 
 The GST council, had slashed rates of over 200 items with the levy on 176 reduced from 28% to 18%, leaving just 50 in the highest slab. Currently, there are four GST rates of 5%, 12%, 18% and 28%.
 
 Reversing a slowing trend, revenue collections from the GST rebounded in December growing 7% and bringing relief for policy-makers ahead of the 2018-19 budget which will be unveiled in Parliament on February 1. Experts said the latest collections signalled that the system had stabilized and pointed to higher receipts in the months ahead.
 
 Total revenue received under GST for the month of December was Rs 86,703 crore. The reversal in the slowing trend comes amid a series of steps taken by the government to stabilise the new tax reform measure as well as efforts aimed at plugging evasion. The encouraging collections in December is also likely to help alleviate some of the uncertainty over revenue receipts in the current fiscal year.
 
 Earlier, the FM also urged the officers to work on the weak areas and help improve the countries ranking in the World Bank’s ‘ease of doing business’ survey.
 
 "The Prime Minister has given us goal that we must try and come within first 50. So, at a time when you were at 142, to come within first 50 is somewhat challenging," the FM said.
 
 Jaitley said that out of the 10 parameters which the World Bank uses for the rankings, focus should be on three areas which need to be improved. These include municipal approvals for land and buildings, trading across borders and enforcement of contract.
 
 "Each one of these has a number of minute details which we need to satisfy and most of them are not very difficult to satisfy," the FM said.
 
 Finance Secretary Hasmukh Adhia also urged officers to help in improving the country’s ranking on the trading across border category. "All of us together have to work harder to ensure that our ranking in that particular item, which is 146 as of now, we must make it within 100 as early as possible. If not within a year, within two years,” he said.
 
 
 
 
