NAGPUR: In a setback to senior academician Dr Vedprakash  , the civil court here on Friday refused to grant any relief to him in the alleged case of plagiarism in the theses submitted towards ‘Diploma in Gandhian Thought’ offered by Nagpur University (NU).

 Earlier, NU conveyed to the civil court that Dr Mishra was granted extra time to reply to its notice regarding the case till February 26. Before that, NU will submit a reply on his application to the court by February 20.
 
 It was on complaint of senior academician   to the Governor in 1992 that Mishra had allegedly copied the contents from Dr Rao’s book published as part of his field report in 1967, that NU had constituted a probe panel under retired judge Ratnaparkhi.
 
 As per the panel’s recommendations, NU’s then   (now Management Council) had decided to reject Dr Mishra’s theses and cancel his diploma. It was challenged by him in the civil court which was rejected in 2013. However, for over four years, the file was kept pending with a couple of vice-chancellors in NU’s private locker.
 
 After it came to notice of VC SP Kane, he referred the case to NU’s board of examinations and evaluation (BOEE). It had taken the decision to grant hearing to Dr Mishra. However, he neither replied to BOEE’s notice nor remained present to defend himself till first deadline. Instead, he challenged NU’s decision in the court asking for staying it.
 
 “Now, we’ve given him second deadline till February 17 for submitting replies and he would be heard on February 26, when I have convened the meeting of BOEE. The BOE will decide next course of action,” Kane told TOI.
 
 Avinash Gharote, while defending Dr Mishra in the court, claimed that the VC has no right to take any action. “NU has not taken any action in the last 21 years despite being aware of the court’s verdict. So, why are they hurrying to act now?” he questioned.
 
 He called NU’s action illegal stating that at that time, 21 members were in the Executive Council but only 11 had decided to cancel diploma.
 
 
