Coimbatore: The summer rain has been lashing the district since March. When was it that the district last received such a copious rainfall in summer? If experts are to be believed, this is the highest amount of summer rainfall that the district has recorded in at least a century.

 Summer showers are usually experienced across three months from March to May. This year, the district has received 301mm (millimetre) rainfall, against the average summer rainfall of 136mm, from March to till date.
 
 This year’s summer rainfall is 39mm higher than the last peak witnessed in 2015, when it touched 262mm. While the district usually receives only 11 showers on an average in a summer season, there has been 17 showers so far this year, said experts with the Agro Climate Research Centre (ACRC) at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU). 
 
 The director of ACRC, S Panneerselvam, attributed the copious summer showers to the disturbances in the Arabian Sea. “Earlier this month, Cyclone Sagar, which formed in the Arabian Sea, had travelled towards Somalia. Now, a second low pressure had formed in the southeast Arabian Sea, which might develop into Cyclone Mekunu. Such disturbances have caused high rainfall this summer,” he said.
 
 Also, the moisture-laden air from the southern region, which is at a lower temperature and higher pressure, travels towards north (Rajasthan and the surrounding regions) because of the higher temperature and lower pressure there. “This causes clouding and showers along the way,” Panneerselvam said.
 
 The hilly regions in the western districts had caused moisture-laden air from the low-pressure trough in the Arabian Sea to rise, causing thunderstorms across western districts, said S Balachandran, director of Regional Meteorological Centre, Chennai. “While Coimbatore received good thundershowers this year, the instability in the Arabian Sea and the cloud pattern caused showers in Theni, Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri and Salem,” Balachandran said.
 
 Panneerselvam, meanwhile, said ACRC had urged the farmers to dig troughs around trees and plough their fields to receive rainwater. “Many farmers have followed our instructions and saved a significant amount of rainwater. Also, by ploughing their fields before rain they have ensured that the water has seeped into the ground. This will help increase the groundwater level,” he said.
 
 Vazhukkuparai Balu, 73, a farmer from Madukkarai, said the farm ponds at Madukkarai and surrounding areas had helped the farmers a lot. “Rainwater has filled all the farm ponds and seeped into the ground. Now, borewells at Madurkkarai and surrounding areas have recharged to a significant extent,” he said. Balu added that the farmers were upbeat about the upcoming sowing season, which starts from July.
 
 The summer showers have also ensured enough potable water for the district to survive till December, said an official with the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board. “Even before the rainfall, we had enough water to meet our potable requirements till July. Now, the summer showers have filled up the reservoirs catering to the district. There will be potable water supply till December,” the official said.
 
 
