Trichy: Kalachery West, a quaint little village near Needamangalam in Tiruvarur district, has seen several positive changes over the last few years, thanks to students and an English teacher from a middle school here. Since 2013, the Panchayat Union Middle School (PUMS) in the village which has around 140 students, has made it a point to carry out at least one extensive project to scrap certain regressive practices and superstitions in the village. Some of the projects that were undertaken by the students, under the guidance of their English teacher T Anand, ranged from organising street plays and sessions to creating awareness about menstruation - which was considered a taboo in the village. The students also came up with a herbal cream for farmers who had skin allergies from use of chemical fertilizers and conducted awareness drives against suicides as well as open defecation. The practice of isolating girls during their menstrual cycle and making them sit surrounded by broomsticks in the verandah of the house was a regressive practice that was being followed in the village. To put an end to this practice, Class VIII student S Banupriya from PUMS, mentored by her teacher, carried out an awareness programme by conducting street plays and making a doctor give a talk. “Menstruation is something which every girl goes through and there is no reason why it should be considered a taboo. I’m happy that my project has brought a positive change in the village,” Banupriya said.  For her project, she was recently declared winner in the individual category at the 8th Annual Spirit of Community Awards hosted by DHFL Pramerica Life Insurance (DPLI) in Gurugram. Even in the group category, five students from the same school – S Pushpalatha, S Hariharan, P Sarojini, R Devika and A Vidhya – were finalists for the farmer’s cream project. “We came up with a cream, which was made using herbs for farmers who suffer from skin allergies owing to chemical fertilizers,” Class VIII student Pushpalatha said. She added that they learnt to prepare the cream from a lesson in their science book. “Education is all about implementing teachings for the betterment of society and that’s why we carry out such projects,” said Anand. “We purely focus on issues that occur in the village and come up with projects to provide solutions,” he added. The English teacher also added, “When I was appointed in the school, I came to know that around 15 students lost their parents through suicide and that’s why we conducted suicide awareness programme.” One of the projects, ‘self confidence masks’ also brought a significant change among students, Anand mentioned. “Many of our students had stage fear and we made them go up the stage and perform by wearing masks. Once they gained enough confidence, they no longer needed it,” he said. Even when it came to academics, students were taught through the Active Learning Method (ALM) instead of the traditional method. School headmistress, V Thilagam, said, “The literacy level in the village is very low and our projects have enlightened the locals here significantly. We will carry out such activities in the future also,” she added.