As Bollywood's superstar   turned 44 on January 10, a host of   celebrities couldn't help but wish the Indian superhero a year full of happiness and love.

 Actor Akshay Kumar wrote, "Even though you're already blessed with the best...best family, friends, neighbors ?? This year wishing you better than the best! Happy birthday @iHrithik :)".
 
 
  
 
 Veteran actor Anil Kapoor tweeted, "Happy Birthday @iHrithik !! Wish you a successful, adventurous & peaceful year ahead! Good luck and lots of love!"
 
 
  
 
 Actor Abhishek Bachchan wrote, "?Happy happy birthday bro braz! @iHrithik major love to you today and always... Be cool!"
 
 
  
 
 Actress   tweeted, "Wish you a very happy birthday!!!! Loads of love. Stay cool! @iHrithik"
 
 
  
 
  wrote, "No beauty shines brighter than that of a good heart. " you have been shining your light on my life for over 17years @iHrithik and for that I am ever grateful. Happy Birthday you shining bright star! Love you. Have an amazing year ahead"
 
 
  
 
 
 "Happy birthday my dearest @iHrithik. May God bless you with ALL the happiness and peace in the world.
 
 You are the BESTEST:)", veteran actor Anupam Kher wrote.
 
 
  
 
 His 'Dheere Dheere' track co-star   tweeted, "Happy birthday Hrithik! Can't believe it's been more than 2 years since #DheereDheere. Time truly flies! Wish you all the love and joy on this special day @iHrithik"
 
 
  
 
 Popular Punjabi singer   wrote, "Happy Birthday @iHrithik. Stay Blessed. #HappyBirthdayHrithikRoshan".
 
 
  
 
 Filmmaker Ashutosh Gowariker wrote, "Happy Birthday to @iHrithik - one of the LOVELIEST guys I know! His looks, his poise, his larger than life persona is only growing BIGGER! May 2018 prove to be a SUPER YEAR for you, Hrithik!! Love and Hugs!!".
 
 
  
 
 
 The actor, who was born on January 10, 1974, in Mumbai to a Punjabi family prominent in Bollywood, is one of the highest-paid actors in India.
 
 He has portrayed a variety of characters and is known for his dance.
 
 The 'Kaabil' actor has also won many awards, including six Filmfares, four for Best Actor and one each for Best Debut and Best Actor (Critics).
 
 He made brief appearances as a child actor in several films in the 1980s and finally played a lead role was in the box-office success 'Kaho Naa... Pyaar Hai'.
 
 Hrithik and  , who got married in 2000 and got divorced in 2014, have two sons together - Hrehaan and Hridhaan.
 
