BENGALURU: The state government has, in an election year, decided to use technology to woo rural youth and also provide “last-mile connectivity” by taking technology to the gram panchayat level with free Wi-Fi, and generate employment opportunities.

 With the state cabinet approving of internet to 2,650 gram panchayats (GP), the information technology department has decided to provide free Wi-Fi of up to 1GB per month to every user within 1sqkm of the service provider. According to department officials, the scheme is already “up and running” in as many as 500 GPs in the state, with BSNL being the service provider and   giving hardware support.
 
 “In the remaining 2,150 GPs, 316 are commercially live and the rest will start functioning by the end of February. The service provider for these GPs will be   SPV, a government of India agency,” said an IT department personnel.
 
 What does the proposal entail? Under the scheme, the IT department will be providing internet services to common service centres (CSC), the   (BSK) or newly constituted Seva Sindhu centres in rural areas. These centres will then identify village entrepreneurs, or locals, who will be the front persons for the services. The entrepreneurs will be selected from the list of panelled service providers registered with Keonics, or the local GPs.
 
 “Wi-Fi service will be available in a 1sqkm radius of the centres, with identified local entrepreneurs setting up the requisite infrastructure. The idea is to generate local employment opportunities and take technology to homes, offices and industries at the village level,” said IT-BT minister  .
 
 While the first 1GB every month will be free, every consumer will later have to pay for additional internet data. “We will be pricing it at a minimal amount of Rs 15 or Rs 30 for every 1 to 5GB of data. These will be sold with a recharge coupon to the consumer,” said the minister.
 
 Earlier, the department had proposed a limit of 100mb per day or 30 minutes of Wi-Fi, whichever is lower. However, citing user pattern in the 500 GPs which are already receiving this service, the department has now decided to remove the time limit and extend free service of up to 1GB per month.
 
 The department has covered all 30 districts in the state, with the more viable of them being taken up for the Wi-Fi scheme in the first phase. The viability of the GPs have been ascertained with 2,000 or more population in these panchayats.
 
 According to IT-BT principal secretary  , the state government intends to cover all the 6,068 existing GPs in the state by 2019, under the scheme. “The government has allocated Rs 50 crore for the project to be implemented this year,” he said.
 
 This would basically mean that the entire cost of internet service will be paid to the service provider by the state government. Meanwhile, for cities, the IT department has already floated tenders to provide Wi-Fi hotspots across municipal corporation limits.
 
 “We are looking at providing free Wi-Fi of 30 minutes to each user each day, after which the internet service providers are free to charge the consumer based on their tariff rates,” said a department official.
 
  
  
 
 
 
