NAGPUR: Union surface transport minister   said the business run by his sons — Nikhil and Sarang — has clocked a turnover of Rs 1,100 crore. Speaking at the foundation day function of   (MIA) at Hingna, he exhorted other industrialists to think big.

 “I am no longer involved in any business but my sons are and they are doing well indeed. This time, their business has registered a turnover of Rs1,100 crore and the aim is to take it to Rs5,000 crore,” said Gadkari.
 
 The reference was to erstwhile Purti Group which was mired in a controversy four years ago. An open inquiry was conducted by income tax department for alleged investments by shell companies into the business. 
 
 The business is now mainly run under the name Manas Group instead of Purti Group. The group is mainly involved in agro-based products, said a source involved with the company.
 
 The reference to his sons’ business by Gadkari was for emphasizing that businessmen in Vidarbha should aim bigger. “The existing scale is not beyond Rs10 crore or so, which cannot make any difference to the local economy,” he said. There have to be businesses running into thousands of crores, he stressed.
 
 The MIA gave away entrepreneurial excellence awards to promoters of three units. These include   whose unit makes Vithoba brand of toothpaste, Dhanraj Gandhi of M/s Bombay Well Prints, manufacturers of printing ink and   of Shree Udyog, a fabrication unit. 
 
 Spelling the list of initiatives, Gadkari said there are plans to beautify the Telangkhedi and Amzabari lakes. A proposal is being worked out to have a sound and light music show on Swami Vivekanda’s life at Ambazari.
 
 Gadkari said there is an ambitious plan to have a water way linking Mouda near Nagpur to Visakapattanam in Andhra Pradesh. “It would not be easy and hence I will not say much about the plan at this juncture,” he said
 
 On alternate fuels, which is his pet subject, the minister said recently two of the auto majors, TVS and Bajaj, have come up with bikes which can run on ethanol. “Green fuel is a much cheaper alternative to petroleum,” he said.
 
 “The number of electric vehicles are expected to touch 1000 in the city. With this, Nagpur will have 40 battery charging stations against 20 at present. The parking lot in the recently built   auditorium will also be having charging points,” he said.
 
 A Rs 300 crore project is underway to link all MIDC estates including Hingna connecting straight to the dry port at Sindi in Wardha district. This port is an extension of Jawarahlal Nehru Port Trust. From here, the goods can be transported directly in rakes to the seaport.
 
 “In Mihan, a land parcel of 350 acres has been identified for having a convention centre which is also expected to provide a major boost to local industries,” Gadkari said.
 
 ‘New roads to help truck cover longer distance’
 
 The new roads being built by present government will enable trucks to cover longer distance, said Union transport Nitin Gadkari.
 
 “In the US, a truck covers 600km in a day’s travel. In India, it is 200km in a day. The highways are being improved so that around 350 kms can be covered in a day’s run by the trucks here,” he said. Gadkari added that the conventional speed breakers are also being done away with. “Breakers giving a three-dimensional image on the basis of light will be put in place,” he said.
 
 
