NEW DELHI: The   over   has   at   into two. Even as members of the   Teachers’ Association sat on a   against the “lack of dialogue” on the campus, another group of 40 “concerned teachers” came out “to clear the misinformation spread about recent incidents”. 

 While JNUTA members protested against the vice-chancellor’s accusation that they were “tacitly supporting” the students over the attendance issue, the group of 40 teachers was joined by the chief proctor in his “individual capacity”. The students’ strike, meanwhile, moved into the second week. JNUTA members the letters that they claimed to have written to the VC since February 12, requesting a meeting. “None of our pleas were answered,” Sudhheer Suthar, JNUTA secretary, claimed. He said it was only after JNUTA sent out invites to the media for a press conference on Monday did the administration invite them for talks.
 
 On the issue of attendance that has sparked protests on the campus, a JNUTA member claimed that “much like other policy changes, the matter was never discussed or passed at the academic council meet”. JNUTA members also rejected the VC’s claims that the attendance issue was discussed and passed by a majority opinion of the academic council. They claimed that this “policy change” was one of the “examples in the last two years where AC proceedings have been circumvented”. Another teacher said that it was not about making attendance a must but the manner in which the rule was imposed that was questionable.
 
 The other faction of teachers, however, countered these charges. They cited a 1970 ordinance that, they claimed, talked of “tracking attendance”. JNUTA members, in turn, claimed that attendance records were always maintained at the university and the new system was only substituting one that was already functioning well. “When UGC was thinking of evaluating semester attendance, it took the idea from JNU’s system,” JNUTA president Sonajharia Minz said.
 
 The administration has rubbished allegations that compulsory attendance would victimise students, a view seconded by the other faction of teachers. 
 
 
