MUMBAI: Bombay   on Friday asked chief secretary Sumeet Mallick to come up with a practical solution for rehabilitation of   on  . A division bench of Justices Abhay Oka and Riyaz Chagla gave the state time till April 17 to place a   before court.

 The court’s directives came a day after the Maharashtra government assured the HC in an affidavit that Mahul, where it wants to rehouse the encroachers, was habitable. The state had said that NEERI and MPCB had carried out air quality tests in the area, especially where 59 buildings meant for project-affected persons were located, during summer and winter. The agencies had reported that “parameters of air quality in the area are within limits”.
 
 
  
 
 But the bench pointed out that the National Green Tribunal order over pollution due to chemical factories at Mahul stands. It observed that the less said about the state’s affidavit the better. 
 
 The court is hearing petitions filed by persons objecting rehabilitation to Mahul. Advocates Sanjeev Sawant and Saloni Ghule, counsels for the petitioners, said the state was trying to undermine the NGT orders. Besides the levels of pollution, the lawyers said that many of the slum rehabilitation projects in the vicinity, where their houses were located, had a component for PAPs. They could be rehabilitated in the vicinity of their existing structures, instead of shifting them over 20km away to Mahul.
 
 The state had said in its affidavit that it had allotted 11,633 flats at Evelsmile Layout in Mahul to project-affected persons, including 5,862 families who had encroached on the pipeline. The families were to be rehabilitated in 59 buildings. 
 
 The state and   have to rehabilitate the encroachers following an HC directive to remove them from near the pipeline and maintain a 10-metre buffer zone around it. The court’s orders had come on a public interest litigation that had claimed that the encroachments were not only a health hazard but also a security threat. BMC had admitted that much of the 15,000 illegal structures on the pipelines were mainly located from Balkum to Mulund and then beyond Maroshi. Earlier this week, the HC had said that the state and BMC were duty-bound to implement its orders to remove the encroachments. 
 
 “The issue is of protecting water supply to more than 1.80 crore citizens of Mumbai. The interests of the entire population of the city must get precedence over few thousand citizens who have their structures within 10 meters of main water pipelines,” the court had said. 
 
 
