TNN

 Mumbai:   MD  , who is facing charges of conflict of interest relating to her husband’s business dealing with  , was conspicuous by her absence at the listing ceremony of   Securities, the lender’s broking subsidiary, on Wednesday. The stock of I-Securities, which received a tepid response to its IPO, was listed on the NSE at Rs 435 — a 17% discount to its offer price of Rs 520. The stock finally closed at Rs 445, 14% off the offer price. 
 
 Kochhar, who is chairperson of I-Sec, had attended the road show for the IPO in the city in mid-March. A source in the bank said that since the lender’s top brass was in a strategy meeting on Wednesday morning — around the same time the I-Sec stock was listed — Kochhar could not attend the listing ceremony at the NSE. Earlier this week, Kochhar had pulled out of an event that was being organised by trade body Ficci where she was to be felicitated by President Ram Nath Kovind.
 
 Reports on Wednesday said Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) had sought permission from the government to summon Kochhar to question her regarding ICICI Bank’s dealings with the   group, which is one of the largest defaulters for the lender. However, in an exchange filing, the bank denied that it has received any communication from the SFIO.
 
 There were also reports the income tax department has issued a notice to Deepak Kochhar, husband of the ICICI Bank MD, in connection with a tax evasion probe in the Videocon case. 
 
 The I-Sec IPO, through which ICICI Bank aimed to mop up a little over Rs 4,000 crore by part-selling its stake, was undersubscribed when it closed on March 26. The bank finally mobilised about Rs 3,520 crore through the IPO. At Wednesday’s close of trade, I-Sec had a market capitalisation of nearly Rs 14,350 crore.
 
 In Wednesday’s weak market, the ICICI Bank stock closed a marginal 0.4% lower at Rs 268. On Monday, as regulatory and analyst scrutiny of the bank’s dealing with the Videocon group escalated, the stock was hammered nearly 6%. On Tuesday, it had recovered some ground. In the last one month, the stock has lost Rs 35, or 11.5%, from its March 5 close of Rs 303.
 
 
