KOCHI: The  's claim that a student who said she was given a wrong question paper for her recent board exam was 'fabricating a story', has left several questions unanswered. 

 Ameeya Saleem, the student of Mount Carmel Vidyanikethan Senior Secondary School in Kanjikkuzhy,   had moved the high court saying that she was given a 2016 question paper for the Maths exam held on March 28 and had urged that her answer sheet be assessed based on it. The court had instructed to conduct re-exam for the student based on her complaint.
 
 In its counter-affidavit, submitted to the court last week in response to student's plea, the CBSE had claimed that she had used her brother's question paper of 2016 for her Class X board exams. 
 
 But to the question as to how she could have written the exam without filling the roll number in the question paper that has to be verified by the invigilator, the CBSE has no clear answers. "The student must have intentionally left it blank," said a CBSE official.
 
 Principals of schools affiliated to the CBSE said the rules on the conduct of exams are strict and there is clear instruction that the invigilator should ensure that candidates have written their roll numbers as mentioned in the hall ticket on the cover page of the question paper before the commencement of the examination. This is to ensure that the question paper is not misplaced.
 
 The CBSE had conducted an inquiry and in a statement filed in the HC, it said it has identified from its records that the question paper set, which was presented by the student, was two years old and it was the same one that was given to her brother, when he wrote the board exam.
 
 However, CBSE principals that TOI spoke to expressed surprise at the CBSE's findings, especially the one that the girl had managed to carry her brother's question paper to the exam hall. The CBSE officials had also said they suspect that the student had copied the answers that were already inscribed on the question paper. "How is that possible? There is strict frisking and no paper except the hall ticket is permitted to be carried to the exam hall," said a school principal.
 
 "Our head office is looking into the matter. If there is any shortcoming on the part of the invigilator, we will look into it," said a senior CBSE official. "How can she know that the question paper she got is an old one when she is writing the exam? She came to know about it only after leaving the exam hall and after discussing about the question paper with friends," said a close relative of the student, in response to the CBSE statement which said she did not approach the invigilator immediately after the exam. 
 
  (With inputs from Kottayam) 
 
 
