Nagpur: The best-ever performance by Indian boxers in the Commonwealth Games has some local contribution too.

 
  of Guards Regimental Centre (RGC) Kamptee brought laurels to the region by winning the silver medal in the 60-kg category of boxing event. Representing India for the first time in the  , Kaushik had to content with silver in the men’s lightweight division.
 
 The 22-year-old Kaushik lost by a solitary point (2-3) to Harry Garside of Australia in a hard-fought summit clash. The talented Indian boxer gave his best against the local favourite Garside but went down fighting on a split decision. Kaushik was in the contention till the last but could not get the judges’ nod.
 
 Manish narrowly missed out on yellow metal after the judges awarded the match to home challenger Garside. Sports minister Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore presented the medal to Kaushik and patted him warmly for his outstanding performance.
 
 Earlier in the semifinal on Friday, Kaushik got the better of James McGivern of Northern Ireland in a tough, tactical battle.
 
 Attached with the 17 Guards at GRC Kamptee, Kaushik used to train at the boxing centre of Kamptee during his training years. 
 
 Alumni of GRC, Kaushik after completing his training at Kamptee in August 2016, went on to win the Senior National Championship in 2017. He is originally hails from Bhiwani district of Haryana. 
 
 Colonel CK Rajesh of GRC Kamptee was very proud of Kaushik’s achievement at the CWG. “It is a very proud moment for all of us at GRC Kamptee. We were all following Kaushik’s progress at Gold Coast and feeling very happy. We were hoping for a gold medal from him but unfortunately he lost a very close final. It would have been great had he won the gold medal. Anyway, his superlative performance has done all of us proud,” Col Rajesh told TOI on Saturday.
 
 He said GRC Kamptee has planned a grand welcome for Kaushik when he returns to India next week. “I have already spoken to him and he has agreed to come to Kamptee sooner than later. We will felicitate Kaushik in a grand manner. His silver medal effort has boosted the confidence of other sportspersons attached with GRC Kamptee. I am sure boxing will get a big lift after the spectacular show by Kaushik,” said Rajesh.
 
 Raghvendra Kumar, a clerk at the GRC Kamptee and also Kaushik’s fellow Armyman, was overjoyed with his friend’s success. “I followed semifinal and final matches on the net. We were all rooting for him and praying for his success,” said a jubilant Kumar. 
 
 CAPTION: Indian boxer   displaying his silver medal at Gold Coast
 
 
