CHENNAI: The family that runs together stays together. At least that’s what the Kumars believe. Suresh Kumar and his wife Sujatha have been running marathons for more than three years, and by combining their runs with vacations, the couple has ensured that the whole family stays fit, fine and happy.

 "I have always been interested in fitness and when I got bored of the gym, I took up running," says Kumar, adding that they then launched EC Runners. After The   in 2013, he has participated in three more marathons and about 15 half marathons across the country. What’s more the, 52-year-old plans vacations around events to ensure the family gets to race as well as rest. "It’s important to spend time together. Usually the husband and wife are busy with their schedules, but training for a marathon requires them to be together. We run from 6am to 8am," says Kumar. "And when we take our family along we can explore a place together."
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 Runcations, or racecations — where people combine running events with holidays, in or out of India — are getting increasingly popular. For many, it’s a way to combine fitness with family time. Raju Gangadharan, for instance, has participated in the Big Five Marathon in Africa as well as The Great Wall Marathon in China. "Both times, my family joined me after my run and we explored the country," says the 45-year-old businessman from Kerala, adding that his dream is to participate in the Midnight Sun Marathon in popular   destination Tromso, which is supposed to be a "magical experience." 
 
 Runcations in India are also popular. "My wife as well as my brother and his wife participated along with me in the Kochi Marathon 2017 and my daughters came along. After the run, we vacationed in Kerala" says Kumar, who has also been to events in Bengaluru, Hyderabad, and Delhi.
 
 Clinical psychologist Dr Rekha Sudarshan, who has been running marathons since 2012, has participated in events in Mumbai, Kochi, Coimbatore and Tokyo. "My husband has come with me to runs in Puducherry and Bengaluru, and we have spent a few days. It’s a great feeling to reach the finish line and see your spouse there," says the founder-member of Dream Runners.
 
 Diabetologist Dr Kumar J S, who took to running after his wife Dr Radha prompted him to, says he now looks for runs in destinations abroad and then starts planning his vacation. "I usually go with my wife as my children can’t cut classes. We finish the run first and then go sightseeing. Otherwise, we see the place, rest a few days and then do the run," says Kumar, who has done 36 half and 16 full marathons so far around the world, his most memorable being the ones in Cherrapunji and Khardung La in Ladakh, which is the highest motorable pass. The health benefits have been a bonus. "I began running in 2013, at 85kg. Now, I am 72kg and fit."
 
 Companies that plan runvacations have also cropped up. Go Heritage Run, launched by Bengaluru-based Ajay Reddy in 2014, organises fun runs across India at heritage locations. "We have short (3km-5km), medium (10km-12km) and long (half marathon) runs but they are not races, so there are no prizes," says Reddy, adding that last year, he organised 10 runcations in India." 
 
 The runs are organised on a Sunday and participants are encouraged to spend the whole weekend at the destination. "We also tie-up with people and offer other activities, such as rock climbing in Badami," says Reddy. The idea, he adds, is to get people to visit heritage spots in small towns.
 
 
