BENGALURU: South Western Railway's move to suspend two DEMU trains, which ply between   and  , for five months beginning Saturday has not gone down well with suburban train users. 

 SWR officials on Wednesday announced the two trains - 06571/06572 Banaswadi-Hosur-Banaswadi and 06573/06574 Banaswadi- Hosur-Banaswadi - stand cancelled from May 26 to October 25.
 
 While SWR cited track renewal work between Baiyyappanahalli and Hosur (48km) as the reason for the cancellation, regular passengers say the timing of the announcement - immediately after the assembly elections - is suspect.
 
  "The existing single rail track between   and Hosur is old and must be replaced," said E Vijaya," chief public relations officer (SWR). 
 
  
 
  More than 5,000 passengers travel in the Salem section (Hebbal-Banaswadi-Hosur) every day. The two trains - introduced in March this year just before the elections - were quickly gaining in popularity since the trains halted at Byappanahalli in the tech corridor. Many techies working in Bellandur, Electronics City and Sarjapur Road were regular passengers as it was a cheaper and faster mode of transport compared to the road commute. 
 
 Experts say suspending train services for five months for track renewal is rare. They say a track relaying train (TRT) can lay up to 650 metres of new track a day compared to 120 metres manually. The work could be completed in eight weeks if the authorities take up 650 metres per day, they say.
 
 "Five months is too long a time," said Sanjeev Dyamannavar, a rail activist. "These services were getting popular and there was demand to extend these trains to   and Hebbal. But now the trains itself have been cancelled. SWR appears to be cancelling these services citing technical reasons since elections are over. SWR should operate these two rakes on other stretches till the completion of maintenance work between Baiyyappanahalli and Hosur."
 
  
 
  However, Vijaya defended the move, saying, "If 2-3 km track is replaced, other trains will have to ply slowly on that full stretch and punctuality will be affected. We have to undertake maintenance work which is critical to safety while maintaining reasonable punctuality of running trains." 
 
 But activists say there are other options instead of cancelling trains. In Chennai for example, maintenance work is executed during weekends. Suburban train services are cancelled during the day to facilitate work.
 
 
