CHENNAI: Voice notes shared by his classmates on a WhatsApp group helped a   student of Tamil Nadu Dr Ambedkar Law   sail through the five-year degree so far.

 
 D Akshay Kumar, 22, a final year student of the five-year integrated course in law and commerce, attributes his success to his friends who took up the initiative after practical difficulties faced by him. 
 
 “While in school, books had less pages and it was easier for the software (Kurzweil) to convert the text into speech. At law school, scanning was tedious due to the number of pages,” says Akshay, who lost his eyesight completely when he was in Class VI. The symptoms were there since birth, but by the time things could be corrected, it was too late. 
 
 Technology and absolute support from his mother, K Selvakumari, a teacher at a government school in Chennai, helped Akshay to come through his school exams with flying colours. He secured 92% in his Class XII CBSE exams. From using match-sticks on a chart to explain geometrical designs to scanning textbooks and converting them into audio files, Selvakumari gave her all until her son finished school.
 
 When Akshay went to law university, the role was taken over by his classmates who relentlessly sent synopsis of hand-outs and exam preparation material for the past five years through voice notes. “I would say Akshay is gifted to have got friends like them. They have been patient so far and have been of immense help,” Selvakumari said. Awaiting his final semester results, Akshay has maintained an aggregate of 71 % thus far.
 
 He has plans to pursue postgraduation in law and then appear for the civil service examinations. However, law was not in Akshay’s mind five years ago. “I wanted to start a music school. I still want to do that. Hope I do it eventually,” says the A R Rahman fan, who has cleared grade-4 exams for keyboard from Trinity College, London. Akshay’s favourite is ‘My heart will go on’ from Titanic which he plays often, but the song that fits his story best is the Beatles’ “I get by with a little help from my friends.”
 
