Amitabh Bachchan’s bell-bottoms and wide collared shirts from the ’80s, Rani Mukerji’s short kurta and Patiala salwars in 'Bunty Aur Babli' and Kareena Kapoor’s tees and salwars from 'Jab We Met' – Bollywood has always been the trendsetter when it comes to fashion. However, earlier, it was rarely mentioned if the costumes were khadi or Chanderi, or the region from where they came from. These details about film costumes have come to the forefront now, and are often discussed around the film’s release. Kangana Ranaut’s   is the recent example of this. The fact that Neeta Lulla designed the costumes in khadi was not just a part of the film’s pre-release promotions, but also a good opportunity for the Khadi &Village Industries Commission (KVIC) to rebrand khadi as ‘the glam fabric’.

  
  Designer Rimple Narula says that demand for outfits in Chanderi, mull-mull, and bandhani increased after Padmaavat’s release
 
 Be it the nine-yard Banarasi nauvari worn by   in 'Bajirao Mastani', Deepika Padukone’s lehenga-choli with Kutch embroidery in 'Goliyon Ki Raasleela Ram-Leela' or the kota doriya, bandhani and mull-mull used to create Padmaavat’s costumes – the public knowledge of these details about the costumes is far greater than it would have been a few years ago. One reason for this is that costumes are now an important part of movies’ promotion strategy, especially for period dramas. Designer Anju Modi, who created costumes for 'Bajirao Mastani', was a part of the first song launch event for the movie, and talked about the research that went into the costumes for the period drama. When Padmaavat’s sets were torched in Kolhapur, the first detail to come from the incident was “1000 costumes burnt.” 
 
  
  'Goliyon Ki Raasleela Ram-Leela' made Kutch embroidery popular
 
 
 
 Movies influencing the dressing sense of the common man was rarely a part of public discourse, but the change was evident when Union Textiles Minister   spoke about how costumes influence everyday dressing at the 2017 National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT) convocation. She acknowledged a study on Indian costumes from 1950 to 2010 and its impact by a NIFT student and said, “In her study, we see the influence our legacy, in terms of our culture and craft, has had. Not only on costumes, but also the impact when one sees it on the big screen and adopts it in their daily wear.” The minister had also invited the student to present her study in front of filmmakers from different countries at last year’s International Film Festival Of India (IFFI). 
 
  
  
 After realizing that films can be a platform for the promotion of Indian fabrics, the KVIC has been discussing how they can be used by more costume designers in films. For 'Manikarnika', designer Neeta Lulla has picked fabric worth around `26 lakh from the KVIC. According to KVIC chairman VK Saxena, the fabric being used for the film includes silk, cotton, muslin and wool. Saxena tells us that soon, more films will use khadi for costume designing. “'Manikarnika' is a very big platform for us to promote khadi. We are in touch with seven more producers to promote khadi in their films, and they are all commercial films. We are trying to push the point that khadi is not just for politicians, but also a fashion statement, and is being worn by film actors as well. We are hoping that more youngsters would take interest in khadi when they see actors wearing it on the big screen. It will be easier for us to reach the masses through films,” he says. 
 
  
  Costume designer Dolly Ahluwalia says films like 'Piku' and ' ' needed a lot of research to present a modern working girl or clothes from a certain era 
 
 Lulla, who has designed costumes for movies like ' ', says that the audience has always taken a keen interest in film costumes. “It is interesting to note that earlier, when clients would walk into my store and would request me to create an outfit that they saw on the big screen, they were not as well-informed about the fabric used in the costume. That has changed now. There is definitely more awareness among people, and the credit goes to designers and film teams who now make costumes an important part of promotion strategy,” she says.
 
  
  Anushka Sharma in 'Bombay Velvet'
 
 
 
 After the release of ' ', designers Rimple and Harpreet Narula have been flooded with requests to create brocade and Banarasi paneled lehengas, similar to what   wore in the film. “Our clients are also requesting us to replace net dupattas with dupattas in kota doriya, the fabric which was extensively used in designing costumes for 'Padmaavat'. The fabric is equally light and remains stiff, and the look is better,” says Rimple, adding that the demand for outfits in Chanderi, mull-mull and bandhani also increased after the movie’s release.
  
  Priyanka Chopra in a nine-yard Banarasi nauvari sari in 'Bajirao Mastani'. Designers say that the public awareness about what kind of fabric is used to design the looks in period films like this has increased
 
 Anju Modi, who has designed outfits for movies like 'Bajirao Mastani' and 'Goliyon Ki Raasleela Ram-Leela', says that the demand for designs inspired by movie costumes always increases after the film’s release, but the change is that the fabrics used in films are also in demand now. “Demand for organic fabrics increased after the release of 'Ramleela', and after 'Bajirao Mastani', I had so many customers who wanted Paithani saris, or designs in Chanderi and Banarasi,” says Modi, who is presently researching on fabrics from Andhra and the Deccan region for the upcoming Telugu historical drama 'Sye Raa Narasimha Reddy'. Lulla adds that after the release of 'Hum Dil De Chuke Sanam', she was flooded with requests for designs in bandhani, since Aishwarya Rai Bachchan’s character in the movie was seen in bandhini lehenga-cholis in the film.
 
  
  After the release of 'Hum Dil De Chuke Sanam', Neeta Lulla was flooded with requests for designs in bandhani, since Aishwarya’s character was seen in bandhini lehenga-cholis in the film
 
  
  Requests to create brocade and Banarasi paneled lehengas, similar to what Deepika Padukone wore in 'Padmaavat', have gone up after the film released
 
 
 
 Talk about how films have contributed in creating awareness about Indian textiles among the public, and Dolly Ahluwalia, who won the National Award for best costume design twice (for Bandit Queen and  ), says, “When people adopt the dressing style of their favourite actor or copy the look that they saw on the big screen, they try and find out the details of that design, and that’s how the awareness has come. Many people might say that it is just for period dramas that research and homework about textiles is required, but I feel that even movies like Piku need research about how a working, modern, practical girl would like to dress, and that has influenced many people. Another example that comes to my mind is Bombay Velvet – the way the film explored and created awareness about clothes from a certain era was brilliant.”
 
 
