TRICHY: Frequent calls to Child Line helpline 1098 for the rescue of child brides kept the activists, agencies involved and other stake holders on their toes in April this year in   with the team intervening into 12 cases of child marriages in a month.

 Going by the data of the district social welfare department in Trichy, the cases were reported from the villages near Musiri, Thathaingarpettai, Thuvarankurichi, Manapparai and  . “We had an increased incidences of child marriages last month. The staff at Child Line nodal agency responded to the calls and stopped the marriages,” said district social welfare officer (DSWO) S Usha on Saturday.
 
 Three of the 12 incidents were cases in which the marriages had taken place one or two years ago when the girls were below 16. The misunderstanding between the minor girls and their major husbands drove the girls to seek the help of Child Line to get out of the the tormented life.
 
 Except two school dropouts, all of the brides were school-going minor girls. The proposed marriages forced them to discontinue their education. Though the number of cases reported was a positive thing, the scenario underlined the insensitiveness of the parents towards the consequences of the child marriages.
 
 Despite laws, repeated appeals from the district administration and awareness about the negative impacts of child marriages, the parents in rural areas are forced to get their minor girl children into wedlock because of the prevailing poor economic conditions in the society and the frequent incidents of sexual abuse against girls.
 
 The officials also expressed dissatisfaction over the silence of Anganwadi workers, village health nurses (VHNs), and village administrative officers (VAOs) about the incidents of child marriages in the villages they are serving.
 
 Child Line helpline 1098 played a crucial role in bringing such incidents into light even though the collaborative agency in Trichy withdrew from the service on March 31 this year. Sources said that the process for selecting an NGO to take up the Child Line helpline was yet to begin. The nodal agency only was carrying out the task of rescue operations in place of the collaborative agency.
 
 
