With their hearts beating faster, prayers on their lips and anxious looks on their faces, the students wait with bated breath for the results of their competitions, after showcasing their best; all the while, preparing themselves to face both failure and success. 

 Once the results are announced, for the winners, there is a sudden rush of emotions – of joy and relief – as they rejoice with their family and friends. Flashes of camera and interviews follow. And for those who don’t make it to the top three, the platform becomes the best teacher for life as they accept failure saying that not everyone gets a prize and they should focus on the next task.
 
 Over the past five decades, the Kerala State Youth festival, the cultural extravaganza touted as Asia’s largest youth festival, has been a place where you saw tears of joy and disappointment under one roof. However, this aspect has been sorely missing at the ongoing edition at Thrissur, which has scrapped the practice of awarding first, second and third prizes and adopted a grading system with all participants being awarded a trophy.
 
 Though the organisers say that the decision was to curtail unhealthy competition, it has created a bigger mess, according to the participants, parents, teachers and previous years’ winners. The lukewarm response and disappointed faces of teachers and parents reflect the mood at the venues as they say that they are sure that their children will get an A grade anyway.
 
 Alappuzha resident Salahuddin Y, father of Asna S T, who earned an A grade for Ghazal, calls the grading system “an injustice to the kids”. “It will only make the mediocre and below average participants happy, and spoil the thrill of the festival. Though the idea that art is not for competition sounds nice, I strongly feel that the children should be given recognition by ranking first, second and third. I am an employee at the Public Service Commission Department and we cannot offer jobs to everyone who has applied. This is like the Malayalam proverb eliye pedichu illam chuduka.”
 
 The students are being the victims of the inefficiency of the system, fumes Silvastar MJ, a drawing teacher from Wayanad, whose students have been consistently winning at the festival for the past 18 years. He says that the grading system will only help the judges avoid attacks of parents and teachers.
 Silvastar adds, “The government has done a favour, especially to those who judge dance competitions. The judges would give everyone an A grade now and avoid chaos. We saw it happen with the Kathakali contest, where 11 out of the 12 teams got an A grade,” he says. “Now it isn’t a competition venue but just a platform to exhibit. However, even at exhibitions, there are prizes for the best stalls.”
 
 The youth festival has a history of discovering many talents such as  ,  , G Venugopal, Sujatha, Navya Nair and Vineeth, who were the cream of the contestants.
 
 Salahuddin says that these opportunities will be denied to the students due to the revised system. “If our earlier system was faulty, how did we get amazing artistes from it? No matter how talented the students are, there will always be one or two who stand out. There were 18 A grades in higher secondary girls’ light music contest. What is the point of the competition now?” he asks.
 
 
 Supporting him, actress Ambili Devi, who won seven prizes at the 2001 fest, says, “I am not against grades as there will be many talents apart from the best three. Let them give an A grade to them but the best should be acknowledged. It is like you contest strongly at the school and district levels and then at the state level, everyone is considered equal. The government has probably adopted this to reduce appeals and other discrepancies, but I think those aspects shouldn’t come in the way of the spirit of youth festival.”
 
 The new system also deprives students the ability to handle failure, says 1996’s Kalaprathiba Dr Sreehari G K. “In every competition, there will be a best performer like in a marathon or a 100 metre race. The basic intention of a competition is to give the children an idea of success and failure and prepare them to face the future. In our time, we never felt those won were greater than those who didn’t as there was always a healthy competition, mutual respect and acceptance. Now in the name of stress, we are creating a lethargic generation who is incapable of handling minute stress,” he says.
 According to Silvastar, the stress and discrepancies are more prevalent at the lower levels. “A lot of politics happen at school levels and children are pressurised and even emotionally hurt. If it is about creating healthy competitions, the government should first monitor selection process of the youth festival at these levels,” he explains.
 
 Former winner and engineering student Amrutha S, from Palakad who has accompanied her sister Gopika for this year’s event, says the grading system takes away the charm of the fest. “I lost all interest the moment I heard about the revised manual,” she says. “There should be a winner. Only those who have been part of the previous fests and have won or lost will know the beauty of it. It is not just nostalgia, it was our first step to face the bigger world outside.”
 
 Echoing her views is BDS student Megha Muraleedaran from Malappuram who has also returned to the festival ground with good memories about late night competitions and camaraderie. “The standards may come down as the participants are aware that an average performance would fetch them an A grade. They may seem relaxed but I feel we will lose out on all the fun. What is a youth festival without winners? They have already removed Kalathilakam and Kalaprathiba title, now this too,” says Megha, who accompanied her sister, who participated in the Kathakali competition.
 
 However, there are a few who support the new system. Singer Vaishnav Girish, who earned two A grades in Ghazal and Urdu group song, says he believes the festival is just another stage performance. “I do not think we should look at it as competition. That is what my mother says. She tells me to go, enjoy and return. I think the grading system will make everyone happy,” he says.
 
 Agreeing with him, dancer teacher and actor Ramadevi says, “This will make the festival scam-free. We all know that a lot of corruption has been happening behind the scenes and most of the time the prizes didn’t go to those who deserved it. That will all change and the festival will become a creative fiesta.”
 
