Picture a calendar. If you’re like most people, you probably thought of an ill-defined rectangular grid with days on one axis and dates on the other. But if you’re a “calendar synaesthete,” you probably pictured an explicit, sharp, crisper-than-Doritos image of a calendar. You see it right here before your eyes. I ask you to recite the months, then skip every month, then do this in reverse — some challenging tasks. But since you’re a synaesthete, you do these with such an ease it’s unbelievable.

 
 “I’m not making this up,” said VS  , a stellar neuroscientist and   recipient, in his keynote address titled Embodied Brains and Disembodied Minds at the 10th annual California Cognitive Science Conference held at UC Berkeley. Rama, Professor at  , has conducted numerous experiments in neuroscience and has come up with startling revelations. As he continues to talk about his experiments on people with synaesthesia — the production of a sense impression by stimulation of another sense — he emphasizes how these people can see color in objects, numbers, and even days of the week. For them, Saturdays are yellow, Thursdays are dark blue, ‘7’ is green, and ‘Enlightenment’ has a magenta-like texture. In other words, they see something that we, the laity, don’t.
 
 
 
 To answer that, let’s take a step back. First, consider the fact that we can visualize a calendar suggests that we are inherently hardwired to map time in space. Second, however, is the fact that it’s only very recent in our evolutionary history that we’ve acquired this hardwiring. Which begs the question — How did our brains ever become capable of evolving a specific region to deal with this mapping of time in space?
 Well, given the opportunistic nature of evolution, perhaps the most convenient way to represent the abstract idea of sequences, numbers, and time would’ve been to map them onto a “pre-existing map of visual space, already present in the brain.” Rama has explored this pre-existing map and has concluded that since our sense of self, our ability to understand the world, and our ability to compute are connected, they enable us to navigate mentally through space and time, while being firmly anchored in the present.
 
 
 
 Ramachandran suggests that for calendar synaesthetes, altered groups of genes may prevent pruning of connections between specific areas during development, making the more abstract concept of a calendar mapped in space a real perception — an eerie and marvelous intertwining in the brain.
 
 Next, Rama talks about the “phantom limb.” Picture this: A young man loses his left arm in a driving accident en route to the Mexican border. At the hospital, Rama touches different parts of the man’s face. At one location, the man says, “Hey, I feel my index finger.” At another, he says, “I feel another finger.” Rama applies some hot water on his face, to which he says, “Wow, I feel water’s flowing uphill.” Now, clearly something interesting is going on here. When the man lost his arm, neurons in that region did not just stop functioning. Instead, they rewired themselves to develop new connections — an elegant reorientation of the rewired neurons.
 
 Rama continues to research such unique phenomena, hitherto undiscovered or unappreciated by the medical community. He believes in picking a syndrome, “rescuing it from oblivion,” examining it, and then curing it. Just proving a theory is “a useless ability,” something that won’t get him a Nobel Prize. However, for the unique discovery of synaesthetes and phantom limbs, Rama is well on track to getting one, eventually. He’s just 66.
 
 Watch Rama’s   
 .
 Visit the California Cognitive Science Conference website, 
 .
 
