PUNE: Kids can sometimes put their parents in a spot and the mother of a five-year-old girl learned this the hard way.

 Triveni   (32) was visiting her parents in Shivane near   when her daughter threw a pouch containing gold   worth Rs 1.74 lakh out of the window on December 31 last year.
 
  
  
 
 Auti, unware of her daughter’s doing, thought that someone had stolen her pouch at   bus stand and immediately lodged a complaint with the Shivajinagar police. “Auti stays at Juinagar in Navi Mumbai. She had come to visit her parents in Uttamnagar on December 30 last year. With her, Auti had brought 70g worth of   ornaments that she wanted to keep in a bank’s locker in   in   district,” an officer from the Shivajinagar police said.
 
 On December 31, Auti and her sister left for Shrirampur from Uttamnagar. “When they reached the Shivajinagar bus stand, Auti checked her purse and found the pouch containing gold ornaments and Rs 1,000, collectively worth Rs 1.75 lakh, missing,” the officer said.
 
 Following the realization, Auti immediately returned to her parents’ house and informed them about the missing pouch. “Thinking that someone had stolen it at the bus stand, she lodged a complaint of  ,” the officer said.
 
 Meanwhile, Auti’s mother remembered that her granddaughter was playing with the purse. “She also recalled that the girl had thrown something out of the window,” the officer said, adding that the Auti’s father then checked the CCTV footage in the building.
 
 “The CCTV cameras showed an elderly woman in a white sari and a red sweater picking up something and hiding it in her clothes. Another camera showed the woman leaving the society premises in a hurry,” the officer said.
 
 Suspecting that the elderly woman may have picked up the purse, Auti went to the Shivajinagar police again and informed them about it. “The case was transferred to the Uttamnagar police for further probe on Wednesday,” he said.
 
 The officer said police have obtained the CCTV footage from the society. “Though the footage is not clear, we have ascertained the identity of the woman. We will solve the case soon,” he said.
 
 
