, social media feeds saw a video of a baby elephant running around in Chinnakkanal town, Idukki, lost and confused, while a crowd watched from a distance. Many were moved and comments on the lines of “Please re-unite it with its mother, please feed it some milk,’’ were posted in hundreds. But putting a stark end to the possibility, forest officials announced that they had found the body of a she-elephant, presumably the calf’s mother, in the forest. The calf was just six months old and there was no way it could survive alone in the forest. 

 The officials later built an enclosure made of bamboo, in the hope that if not the mother, some other herd will come to claim it, and take it back to the forest. But no herd came, and officials speculated on the possibility of transferring the calf to the Kodanadu elephant training centre, a regular practice in the past. But protests arose from the public as well as activists, who even petitioned the Chief Minister demanding that the elephant be sent back to the forest, rather than Kodanadu, which is actually a ‘training centre’ where the calves are groomed to be future temple elephants, and a life in chains.
 
 Perhaps owing to the protests, 
  evening, the calf was transferred to the   near Thiruvananthapuram, the only rehabilitation centre in Kerala for orphaned and injured elephants, where it is resting now. “It is weak and tired as it lacks its mother’s milk. It’s sleeping most of the time. We will be feeding it with the required supplements to help it regain its health,” said Dr Dayamon, veterinarian in charge.
  
  
 Refuting claims that the calf will be put in chains in Kottoor as well, Thiruvananthapuram Wildlife Warden Shaji Kumar said the calf is now let free inside a building, and not chained. “Visitors won’t be allowed to access it for a while. We will think of letting it interact with visitors only after it adjusts to the new surroundings.” The centre has two more baby elephants, and the calf will have their company, he adds.
 
 Other she-
  have been known to take care of an orphaned calf, and even suckle them. But the forest officials waited for just one day, that too by keeping the calf in an enclosure. There were crowds of people around it all through the day. A herd will never approach it in such a situation,” says Sally Varma, activist, while Venkatachalam, 
  lover and activist, says, “In other states, the officers go into the forest with the calf and wait for herds to claim it. They did not bother to do it here.”
 
 However, Shaji Kumar says that there is very little chance of a herd taking in a calf whose mother has died. “The calf had its reasons for escaping the forest.”
 Activists also claim that although Kottoor is not an elephant training centre, it is a tourist centre, where elephants are made to give rides to tourists. “They are let free only at specific times and are chained the rest of the time. I would say it’s only the better option among the lot for the baby elephant, which would otherwise have ended up as a festival elephant,” says M N Jayachandran, member of the Kerala State Animal Welfare Board.
 
 Meanwhile,  , an activist and expert in elephant behaviour, says an orphaned elephant, especially one as small as the one in question, requires round the clock attention and care. “Elephants grieve the death of the members of their family and go through long periods of depression. The baby elephant would be looking for plenty of touch and contact during that period and it needs more than just food. The forest atmosphere should be replicated as much as possible and there should be one person dedicated to caring for it. It shouldn’t be just an employee who does it for the salary. It should be someone who does it for love of elephants, who the calf will feel attached to. That is how it works in sanctuaries in other states and elsewhere in the world.”
 
 All activists unanimously stress on the need for a completely chain free sanctuary in Kerala, where even a male elephant in musth is let free, but in a safe area. “It is only in Kerala that I have seen even six-month-old baby elephants in chains. The government and NGOs should work together to put an end to such cruelty,” Suparna says. 
 Shajikumar, however, says that a project is on to make Kottoor completely chain-free, and it will be realised within a few years. “We are planning a larger enclosure where the elephants can be let free without chains. Even now, they are let free at certain times of the day.” 
 
 He also assures that the baby elephant will never leave the Kottoor centre or be turned into a captive elephant for temples, as feared by activists. So, can elephant lovers heave a sigh of relief now? Apparently not. Things can change at the snap of a finger, according to Venkatachalam. “The elephants in the Kottoor camp belong to the government. All the elephant camps in the State are flooded with requests from temples, asking for the male calves to be sold to them. Strong political pressure is applied at times and I was witness to such a case, where a baby elephant would have been sold for sure, if not for my intervention. If the government decides at some point to approve of a request from a temple to buy this baby elephant, he too will be taken away,” he says. 
  
  
 Photos by: Satheesan Karicheri
 
