Chandigarh: Valentine’s Day holds a special meaning in the lives of many couples. Some prefer to hold hands and walk along Sukhna Lake. For some couples, V-day is incomplete without romantic dinner with the beloved and heart-shaped balloons. However, with   and Valentine’s Day falling on the same day this year, it did dampen the lovebirds’ celebration plans on Wednesday. 

 Most of the city roads, parks and popular hangout zones, which are usually crowded on Valentine’s Day, were seen devoid of the usual fervour and charm.
 
 The impact of Shivaratri celebrations, which is being observed for two days this year, could be felt in places such as Geri Route (now Azaadi Route), Rose Garden, Eiffel Tower road and Sukhna Lake. Most of these places wore a deserted look and only a few lovebirds were seen spending some lone time.
 
 Meanwhile, Panjab University departments and off-campus colleges were also closed on the occasion of Shivaratri on Wednesday. Therefore, most of the day scholars were absent and even less number of hostellers were spotted on the campus.
 
 Ankush Arora, a city-based restaurant owner, said, “Usually, the stretch from DAV College turn till Sector 11 market and Sector 7,8 and 9 markets are completely packed with swanky cars and loud music. These areas mostly remain populated with college students, couples and youngsters on Valentine’s Day but this time, all of this is absent.”
 
 Priyanka Bansal, a city-based fashion designer, admits that the Valentine’s Day celebrations were ‘dull’ this year. “I think Shivaratri took the sheen off the V-day celebrations this time. Since the colleges and schools were closed, there were not many people on the road,” she said.
 
 Unlike previous years, parks and green spaces like Rose Garden, Leisure Valley among others saw less number of young couples. In fact, since most of the offices were closed on Wednesday on the occasion of Shivaratri, parks were mainly filled with family crowd, middle-aged couples and senior citizens.
 
 Moreover, stringent security checks were also put in place all over the city. More police officials were posted on Geri Route (Azaadi Route), near the Government College of Arts Road and near Sector 10-11 dividing road, thus making it difficult for the couples to spend some lone time in these places. “We have special security orders and we have been asked to check and control any form of hooliganism happening in the city,” said Dalbir Singh, inspector, UT police.
 
 As many as 44 police checkposts along with over 800 police personnel were on duty across the city, according to Singh. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Sikandar Ali, a student from S D College, Sector 32, said, “Police patrolling has increased over the last 4-5 months. Last year, there were no checks and nakas like these and all the couples were free to roam around wherever they wanted to. However, this time it is very difficult to do that. I wanted to bring my girlfriend but now I don’t think I should do that.”
 
 However, a police constable posted near Rose Garden, said, “I am here since 10am and we have not seen many young couples this time. Most of the visitors are family members only.” Meanwhile, vendors were seen selling large, red heart-shaped balloons. They were also seen decorating cars and bikes with these balloons. 
 
 BOX
 
 Security tightened
 
 Due to excessive checkpoints installed at various parts of the city such as the Panjab University main gate, a dense traffic jam ensued on the Sector 14-15 dividing road, thus stalling traffic for almost 40 minutes. The alternate entrance located opposite PGI was also closed. A large number of city’s youngsters and college students left the city and went to the nearby hill stations to celebrate the day with the loved ones.
 
 
