HYDERABAD:Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways   on Thursday assured   MLA NVSS Prabhakar that the tenders for the much delayed four-lane elevated corridor from Uppal to Narapally would be issued in a week.

 NVSS Prabhakar met Gadkari in Delhi and submitted a representation regarding the long pending project which, if implemented, can ease heavy congestion at Uppal that connects to Warangal as well as decongest the traffic flow towards LB Nagar.
 
 
 
  
 
 “Union minister Gadkari told me that the administrative and technical sanctions for the ₹960 crore project will be cleared in a week and tenders will be issued soon. He has also asked the state government to acquire land for the project on a war footing,” Prabhakar told TOI.
 
 “The 6.4-km corridor will ease the highly congested Warangal highway at Uppal. The four-lane elevated corridor and six-lane, 150-foot wide road will be a long-lasting solution to the area’s traffic nightmares,” said NVSS Prabhakar.
 
 Here it may be pertinent to point out that despite Gadkari’s assurances during September 2017, nothing moved on the sanctioning of funds for the project. Of the total project cost of ₹960 crore, around ₹360 is the allocation for land acquisition.
 
 To expedite the sanctioning of funding, the Uppal MLA made a trip to New Delhi and met the minister again. However, the project has also been delayed as the land acquisition, which has to be done at the state government’s end, has not yet been completed.
 
 Telangana municipal affairs and urban development (MA&UD) minister KT Rama Rao had earlier asked   officials to complete the land acquisition quickly for the Uppal corridor. However, traders opposed the initial proposal to expand the road to 200 feet.
 
 “Land acquisition for the Uppal elevated corridor and the Amberpet corridor is under process,” GHMC commissioner B Janaradhan Reddy told TOI.
 
 Apart from Gadkari, Prabhakar also met Union minister of state for science and technology and earth sciences   for alienating Geological Survey of India land for the proposed   project.
 
 The walkway project will take off only if GSI alienates its land for the project.
 
 Prabhakar also met Union railway minister Piyush Goyal regarding the establishment of Cherlapally railway terminal and comprehensive development of Moula Ali station.
 
 “I have asked the railway minister to release funds for both the projects and have requested him to speed up the MMTS Phase-2 project. The minister assured me that he would allot the required funds during this financial year. He also said that the state government is delaying the land acquisition process for Cherlapally railway terminal,” Prabhakar said.
 
