It’s not easy to encapsulate the life of a legend in a 60-minute performance; especially, if the legend in question is the celebrated Urdu poet  . But taking this challenge head on, veteran theatre artiste   and ghazal singer,   managed to put together a delightful musical tribute celebrating the life and works of the great poet, in Hyderabad recently. Weaving snippets and anecdotes from Ghalib’s life, the duo presented a portrait of the poet in — ‘Mirza   — A Musical Narrative’. 
“In this project, we have tried a different form for the story-telling that combines music and oration. We tried to highlight little known aspects of Ghalib’s life — for instance, his reaction to the Mutiny of 1857, plundering of Delhi by the British troops, views on mundane things like mangoes and liquor, and how he defined himself as a ‘half Muslim’,” says Arif, settling down for a chat with Hyderabad Times. 
 Excerpts: 
 From being the production designer for Gulzar’s famed tele-series Mirza Ghalib during the late ’80s, to conceiving a similar project titled Tera Bayaan Ghalib, a two-CD compilation, featuring Gulzar and late ghazal virtuoso   in 2012, you have been working on Ghalib for almost two decades now. How is this endeavour different?
 Arif: Jagjit Singhji’s compositions of Ghalib’s works happened 30 years ago and we felt it’s time to have a new and fresh musical perspective on his poetry. We felt that the music should be freshly composed in tune with today’s times. I mean, the instrumentation, the sound quality and the whole packaging had to be different and new. And Tauseef has done a commendable job. His compositions are radically different from how other musicians have presented Ghalib’s poetry so far. 
 A lot of ghazal legends, be it Ustad Mehdi Hasan, Abeeda Parvin, Ghulam Ali or Jagjit Singh, to name a few — have composed Ghalib’s works. It must have been a challenge to compose the same works anew? 
 Tauseef: Yes! I grew up listening to Jagjitji’s compositions of Ghalib and to get out of that mood and compose the same ghazals differently was extremely difficult. I had to unlearn a lot of things and think from a different musical perspective. Ghalib was such a master of written word that everybody can interpret his poems in his/her own way, and that helped. What I deeply felt after reading him, I tried to bring that tassur (feeling) into my composition. Moreover, you can’t just sit down and compose music for poetry. Whatever you feel after reading a particular poet or his works takes its own musical course. Everything came naturally to me. 
 Ghalib was a controversial poet and 
 stories of his alcohol, addiction and gambling are famous...
 Arif: Ghalib’s imperfection makes him human. Ghalib himself admitted to all his weaknesses and that’s the beauty of the person. He is the only poet who the world addresses as ‘chacha’ (laughs). 
 You said that the idea was to familiarise the youth of today with Ghalib. But can today’s youth connect with him?
 Arif: The informal manner of his Urdu instantly strikes a chord with the young generation. when I was a kid, my parents used to quote Ghalib or 
 recite his couplets and I couldn’t understand half the things. But in my college days, one of his couplets — ‘Ishq ne Ghalib nikamma kar diya, varna hum bhi aadmi the kaam ke...’ became a fad. It was so charming. So, the point here is, before one delves into the philosophy of Ghalib, it’s very important to savour his poetry, his style of writing, use of metaphors and so on. First, one must develop an interest in his works before discovering him. 
 How relevant are Ghalib’s works and philosophies in today’s times?
 Arif: Ghalib was an ardent advocate of liberal school of Urdu poetry. His works speak of anti-fundamentalism. Ghalib is probably the first modern Urdu poet, who had a solid grounding in Indian ethos. For instance, when he said, ‘Na tha main to Khuda tha, kuch na hota to Khuda hota, dubaya muje hone ne, na main hota to kiya hota’, his ideology is very similar to Vedanta, the Hindu philosophy based on doctrine of Upanishads; something like Monism. Or when he is reciting ‘Qaid-e-hayat O band-e-gham asal mein dono ek hain…’ he is saying that we are prisoners of being, which is something one will find in existential philosophy of  . So, I am not saying Ghalib could foresee it, but he had those philosophies ingrained in his works. Hence they say Ghalib is a not just a poet of today, but tomorrow. He was contemporary to his fans during his lifetime, to our grandparents, to us and will be for the generations to come. It can be beautifully described in one of his couplets — ‘Aate hain gayeb se yeh mazameen khayal mein, Ghalib sareer-e-khama nawa-e-sarosh hain’ (loosely translated, it means: Ghalib, from what unseen sources spring these verse of yours, these jottings of the pen that are redolent of the divine).
 And what do you think is the relevance of Urdu poetry in today’s times?
 Tauseef: Poetry, in most of languages started on religious lines. However, Urdu is probably the only language in which poetry touched upon anti-fundamentalist and liberal thought process from its initial years. Long before Ghalib, Mir (Taaqi Mir), Mirza Mohammed Rafi ‘Sauda’ talked about anti-fundamentalism, because they had seen dogmatism of religion over the years. And Ghalib did the same and mocked the fanatical and assertive 
 nature of religion all his life. 
 We are not here to clarify points or impose ours on others, but one thing I would like to point out to the next 
 generation is that Urdu as a language evolved in India; it is an Indian 
 language. And Ghalib as a poet represents the finest breed of Urdu poets this country has produced. And issues he had talked about are relevant today and would remain so in the times to come.
 
