ATTARI: The Indo-Pak trade at the integrated checkpost (ICP) suffered a major blow after the trade facilitation meetings of the   departments of Amritsar and Lahore came to a standstill following India suspending comprehensive bilateral dialogue with Pakistan after   base terror attack by Pak-backed militants in 2016.

 Prior to the terror attack, the Customs Liaison Border Committee (CLBC) of both India and Pakistan used to have a bi-monthly meeting alternately in Amritsar and Lahore to resolve operational issues at Attari/Wagah border and used to take a comprehensive overview of the issues, including expeditious clearance of goods, removal of bottlenecks, smuggling of commercial things, contraband, etc. 
 
 “The CLBC meetings were the lifeline of trade and should be resumed without any further delay “ opined president of ICP chamber of commerce Mohit Khanna while talking to TOI on Saturday. Not only traders, but Customs officials are unanimous of the view that the CLBC meetings helped to resolve various issues at the level of customs departments in Amritsar and Lahore.
 
 Commissioner, Customs (P) Commissionerate,   confirmed that the CLBC meeting had not been held since 2016. He said that the meetings helped to sort out various procedural issues discussed by officials of customs departments of both countries. Agreeing that there were several contentious issues between the two nations, Khanna asserted that it was commerce that always helps bring prosperity . “We, at the chamber, are of the view that these meetings should be resumed so that various issues of traders are solved to give fillip to the Indo-Pak trade at the ICP,” he said.
 
 Sources said that not only trade but issues pertaining to smuggling of contraband, arms, ammunition and even commercial goods were discussed besides issues of truck drivers, who were allowed to cross the border on single entry permit, etc. President of the Federation of Kiryana and Dry Fruit Commercial Association Anil Mehra said the CLBC meetings could have helped at least to open up vegetable trade. “We need to convincingly covey the message to the   that similar action could be taken by Indian side.”
 
 Meanwhile, sources informed that in one of the CLBC meetings both sides had even proposed to set up IT-based data transfer to expedite trade.
 
 
