TRICHY: The newly-introduced   flights from the Trichy airport has given a fillip to the domestic passenger traffic by registering as much as 80 % seat occupancy in the very first month of operation. Sources with two prominent airlines told TOI that they are planning to launch flights to various destinations including Bangalore and Kochi from Trichy.

 The domestic sector has for long been lagging behind international passenger traffic at the Trichy airport as the airlines have been apprehensive about the patronage. Though the airport had secured the 11th position among the non-metro airports across the country in handling international passengers during 2017-18, it could only attain the 55th position in terms of domestic passengers among 85 airports in India. Aviation analysts say the Mumbai-Trichy-Mumbai service of Jet Airways which began on March 25 has now reinforced the domestic traffic potential of Trichy airport.
 
 Till the launch of this service, Trichy was connected only with Chennai in the domestic sector. Jet Airways has been operating three daily services and   one between Trichy and Chennai despite long-pending demands for better domestic connectivity. Both passengers as well as travel federations had been calling for connecting Trichy to more destinations across the country, S Ramesh, travel agent from  , said. 
 
 “The service providers were sceptical about the patronage if they commenced domestic services. However, the unexpected patronage for the Mumbai – Trichy flight has encouraged them and they are thinking of introducing more domestic flights to destinations across the country”, Ramesh added. Jet Air and Alliance Air which operate between Trichy and Chennai recorded an average percentage of 78.11 seat occupancy between January 1 and April 30. In the case of Mumbai – Trichy, Jet Airways had 80.60% seat occupancy during April a month after it was launched, said H  , an independent analyst.
 
 “A total of 12, 176 passengers travelled between Trichy and Chennai by four flights (daily) in April. However, 19,758 passengers travelled between Mumbai and Trichy during the same period. This has elevated the Trichy airport to 50th position from the existing 55th place”, Ubaidullah said quoting the data available with airlines.
 
 As the trend encouraged more stakeholders, they are preparing to explore more domestic destinations including Bangalore and Kochi. IndiGo airlines is already set to start its four daily services to Chennai from June. In all respects, aviation enthusiasts and frequent fliers expect the domestic air traffic from Trichy to become vibrant in the coming months.
 
 
