GURUGRAM: Had cops made preventive arrests last Sunday when   supporters went around the city wielding sticks and threatening cinema owners of violence, Wednesday’s mob violence — in which school buses carrying students were attacked — might have been prevented.

 Gurgaon police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar, however, said on Thursday he did not see any correlation between Sunday’s demonstrations by the Karni Sena, the outfit leading the protest against ‘Padmaavat’, and Wednesday’s violence, which he said was carried out by “miscreants”. Karni Sena has not been named in the FIR registered for the arson and vandalism at Bhondsi. 
 
 “On Sunday, no violence had taken place. It cannot be said it was the same people who protested on Sunday against the release of ‘Padmaavat’ as the ones on Wednesday. I call the people behind Wednesday’s mob violence miscreants. There are some connections and some differences. We cannot arrest people without any substantial reasons,” Khirwar told TOI.
 
 On Sunday morning, around 200-250 men, who called themselves members of Gurgaon Karni Sena, blocked traffic in various part of the city, including Sohna Road and MG Road metro station, in an attempt to browbeat people before the movie released. Later, five Sena representatives went to several city malls — MGF, Sahara, MGF City Centre on MG Road, Mega Mall on Golf Course Road — and distributed pamphlets to multiplex staff. The pamphlets, carrying a photo of Karni Sena head Lokendra Singh Kalvi, proclaimed that “Padmaavat harms sentiment of Hindus and Muslims, and will lead to communal riots and damage of property”.
 
 Brushing aside the threats of Karni Sena as “fantastic claims”, Khirwar said, “We need to have realistic calibration of the situation and what is threat perception and what is the involvement of that person (Kalvi). It is an evolving situation.”
 
 When asked if he was under any political pressure not to act against Karni Sena, Khirwar responded: “We are completely committed to maintaining law and order in the state. We are taking prompt action to maintain peace and we did everything we could. People are scared because a big issue had been made of the whole thing.”
 
 “Multiple arrests have been made, we controlled the situation when the school bus was attacked, and serious charges have been levelled against them for murder and damage to property. Additionally we have detained multiple people. Those arrested were the same people who burnt the roadways bus,” he added.
 
 The police chief also said cops have been deployed near all theatres wherever the movie is being screened apart from the security arrangements made by individual theatres. “We have pickets all across the city to check the movement. Mobile patrolling parties have also been set up to respond to an untoward situation, if any. The movie is screening everywhere as per the rules of the Supreme Court and everyone is independent to watch the movie,” he said.
 
 
