NEW DELHI: Vehicle thefts remain a challenge for Delhi   in 2018 with an average of 110-120   being   in the   every day. In 2017, this crime was a major issue for the police. Less than 8% of vehicle thefts are solved by cops.

 Till February 15, 2018, Delhi Police recorded 4,970 cases of vehicle thefts as against 40,692 in 2017. Though cops believe the increase in number of cases is due to the online registration of FIRs in vehicle theft cases, to take off the pressure from local police stations, investigations, however, have been moving at a slow pace. Last year, cops recovered only 10% of the stolen vehicles.
 
 Motor vehicle thefts account for nearly one-fifth of the total number of cases registered under the IPC in Delhi. A few years back, cops had conducted a raid at Sotiganj near Meerut and caught around four gangs from Delhi that were using the place as a hideout to dismantle the vehicles.
 
 The bordering districts of Delhi are most prone to vehicle thefts with the most number of cases being reported from parts of east and outer Delhi.
 
 Cops have identified 10-15 gangs of vehicle thieves that outsource their activities to smaller gangs. The stolen cars are taken to Meerut, north-east states and Nepal where they are dismantled or sold off.
 
 Investigators too have a few points about the causes of the rise in vehicle thefts, one of them being unavailability of parking spaces in residential areas. People’s indifference and “police-may-care” attitude is also listed as one of the reasons. Other reasons include reluctance of people to spend money on installation of security devices, second-hand market of vehicles in other states, re-registration of stolen vehicles in some states without completion of procedural formalities and unavailability of fixed registration number plate repainting on time. 
 
 Delhi Police has undertaken several initiatives to catch vehicle thieves. These include identification of affected places and time zones and proper deployment of staff in these areas; barriers put up at vulnerable spots; manufacturers requested to install security devices at showrooms and offices; parking attendants have been sensitised and educative advertisements in newspapers and radio channels have been distributed. 
 
 
