

 Have you ever been in a play? Not as a performer but as a viewer! That’s exactly what you would experience in a ‘5D play’. For about two weeks now, a group of city-based theatre artistes have been giving new meaning to William Shakespeare’s popular phrase ‘all the world’s a stage’. Taking the popular line quite literally, they have been presenting an experimental play titled Read me in 5D zone — but not on stage! Not Yashwantrao Chavan Natyagruha or Bal Gandharva Rangmandir, nor Bharat Natya Mandir or Annabhau Sathe Sabhagruha, the play unfolds at a rented house on Sinhagad Road! When you enter the venue, the play begins.
 
 
 
 
 “The audience shares the same space as the actors,” says Akshay Mande, a member of Flamingo theatre group that has created this play along with  , a group known for their quirky street art. “Each part of the house is used as a set. As the scenes move to different parts of the house, you move along with the actors. The only restriction is that the audience is not allowed to interact with or touch the actors,” adds Akshay, who plays narrator and guides the audience as they follow the actors around the house.
 
 The play takes you through four storylines connected by a common thread, and deal with topics ranging from homosexuality and extra-marital affairs to unwanted pregnancy - in a non-judgmental way. “These topics always have been swept under the carpet. And while exploring such an intimate form of theatre, realistic topics have a better connect with the audience. It makes them feel like an integral part of the story. Thus we chose to take up these topics,” Akshay elaborates, adding that the play does not draw any conclusions and instead, leaves it open to the audience for interpretation.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 For this team of 11 actors, this play has required that they unlearn everything that they learnt for proscenium (the stage setup), including projection of voice and their body language. “This form borders immersive theatre, where people not only sit amongst the actors, but can even interact with the audience. It is extremely popular in Europe. For us, it is an extremely challenging task acting in this set up,” informs  , one of the actors. Nath Purandare, another actor, adds, “You isolate yourself to concentrate on your acting.”
 
 The actors also share that each show has its own set of challenges which they overcome by improvising. “During one of our previous shows, one of the members from the audience ended up sitting where I was supposed to. However, I could not react or ask the person to move. I had to manage with the little space I had beside him,” shares  , one of the actors.
 
 
 
 
 
 Director  , who has experimented with this form of theatre before, started scripting this play around six months ago. The story of this play is based on his observations of the present social scenario. “Once it was ready, it took us around 12-13 days to put together the production along with rehearsals, after which we put it out for audience. After May 30, after the lease gets over, we would be shifting base and taking the play to a new location for a wider audience,” says Vinayak. The play is currently not ticketed, but the group holds an open hat collection after the show.
 
 
