Mysuru: Nearly 150 students from various art schools in the city painted the compound wall of Wesley Cathedral near KSRTC suburban bus stand, and put various designs upon it. The wall was painted to prevent the public from dumping garbage near it and urinating upon it. 

 By painting the compound wall of Wesley Cathedral near KSRTC suburban bus stand on the Male Mahadeshwara Hills road,   (DC)   launched the initiative on Thursday, which was started as a part of the 15-day   awareness programme ‘Swachhata Pakhwada’ from January 16 to 31.
 
 During the 15-day programme, various activities like etching drawings, cultural programmes, essay writing, bicycle jatha and other events will be conducted, to create awareness among the public on cleanliness. 
 
 Students from the Chamarajendra Academy of Visual Arts (CAVA), Sri Ravi Varma Art Institute, Kalanikethana and two more art schools participated in the painting programme from 7 am to 3 pm. The students painted the 150-metre compound wall of the church and CSI Victoria School. 
 
 Students painted tourism spots in the city like Mysuru Palace, Chamundeshwari temple, Mahisasura and Nandi statues atop Chamundi Hills and Silver Jubilee clock tower (Dodda Gadiyara). The paintings were done to create awareness on segregating garbage at its source, maintaining gardens and parks, importance of cleanliness, children’s participation in the Swachh Abhiyan, Mahatma Gandhi’s clean India concept and planting saplings in their schools and localities. 
 
 MCC health officer D G Nagaraju told TOI that the MCC had approached the art schools in the city, and requested them to participate in the painting programme. 
 
 “The paints and other art materials were supplied by the MCC. The students voluntarily participated in the event. The art school students and teachers first showed the sketches which they planned to paint on the wall to the authorities. It was only after the approval of the MCC and district administration authorities, that the students went ahead with the work. Scrutiny of the sketches were done to avoid any problem,” he said. He said students who participated in the painting programme will be given certificates by the district administration. 
 
 Nagaraju said the MCC has already cleaned up 13 similar areas in the city, and have identified a few more to be cleaned up. 
 
 After inaugurating the programme, DC Randeep said that the compound wall was one of the black spots in the city. “The public used to dump garbage next to the wall, and urinate on it. In order to show the public how to keep the city clean and be healthy, this awareness program was taken up as part of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan,” he said. 
 
 Wesley Cathedral Rev Grate Jayashekar and Directorate of Field Publicity assistant director T C Poornima were present. 
 
 
