KOCHI: Following the land deal controversy and subsequent meetings of various organizations of Syro-Malabar Church, church authorities have decided to transfer the administrative powers of Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese (the right of  ) to auxiliary bishop Mar Sebastian Adayanthrath. The circular issued by the church states that Alencherry – who is the head of entire   – will get more time to focus on liturgical aspects once he is freed from administrative charges of the archdiocese.

 The decision was taken by Cardinal Alencherry and two auxiliary bishops Mar Sebastian and Mar Jose Puthenveettil. They issued a circular in this regard on Saturday. Also, a decision has been taken to transfer other priests against whom allegations arose after the controversial land deals. A committee appointed by the church had found the controversial land deals had resulted in a big loss for the church.
 
 A section of the clergy and laity in the church had asked cardinal Alencherry to own up his responsibility for the land deal fiasco and quit. The Presbyteral Council, a forum of clergy in the church, had, sent a letter to the Pope requesting him to take action against the cardinal.
 
 The inquiry committee was very critical of Fr Joshy Puthuva and Fr Sebastian Vadakkumpadan who helped the cardinal to sell properties of the church worth crores of rupees. Fr Puthuva, who is in charge of finical commission of the church, will step down and perform parish duties.
 
 The circular – to be read out in parishes under Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese on Sunday – states that Fr Vadakkumpadan should ‘lead a life of leisure’ and that he will no longer serve in his official capacity. The circular was very critical of the land deals and the loss that happened thereafter.
 
 A suggestion was made: Bishop Mar Sebastian Adayanthrath should work with the finance commission, consultative forum and the committee that was constituted recently and resolve the problems that arose after the land deals.
 
 Adayanthrath will look after administrative affairs of the archdiocese in consultation with the cardinal. The bishop should send periodic reports to the archbishop on how things are moving along. He must also furnish one whenever he is told to do so.
 
 The circular, being issued in the period preceding Easter, states that the church has been going through difficult times just like Jesus Christ, prior to his crucifixion. The circular pins hope on one idea that there is resurrection after crucifixion and this might well be the case in preceding years.
 
