CHENNAI: City residents may be in for a normal or cooler than normal summer (April-May-June) this year, indicates the hot   season forecast released by   ( ). Weather models show this summer will be cooler than last year.

 According to data released by IMD,   is likely to experience days when the maximum temperature will dip 0.14 degrees below normal. Chennai, on an average, records a maximum temperature of 34.5 degrees Celsius in April. Considering IMD’s prediction, the average maximum temperature is likely to be 34.4 degrees Celsius this month.
 
 
  
 
 The highest maximum temperature recorded in April 2017 was 39.7 degrees Celsius, while the all-time highest for April is 42.8 degrees Celsius. As a result, the average minimum temperature this April could be nearly 27 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature fell to a low of 26.3 degrees Celsius during April 2017.
 
 It is during May and June that the heat levels peak in the city. During these two months, the average maximum temperature is likely to be below 37 degrees Celsius. 
 
 The minimum temperature, which is recorded just before sunrise, is likely to be 0.30 degrees above normal in the city. As a result, the summer   may be a touch warmer than usual. 
 
 On Monday, the maximum and minimum temperature was 33.1 degrees Celsius (0.7 degrees below normal) and 27.8 degrees Celsius (two degrees above normal). The night temperature rose above normal as heat reflected by the earth surface’s was not able to escape into space due to cloud cover. 
 
 However, daytime cloud cover helped reduce the maximum temperature by blocking incoming solar radiation.
 
 Overall, the mean temperature of the city this summer is likely to be 0.05 degrees above normal. 
 
 In its previous forecast, released on February 28, IMD had predicted that the summer days in Chennai would be 0.5 degrees warmer than normal. However, recent weather models have found that the maximum temperature could be below normal this summer. 
 
 The summer will be at least a degree hotter than usual in northern and north-western parts that include Jammu & Kashmir, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Himachal Pradesh.
 
 The eastern, east-central and southern parts of India, including Tamil Nadu, will experience a normal to below-normal summer. 
 
 
