Jaipur: The long-pending recruitment of sanitary workers in the state has been stalled for a few more days. 

 The state   employees commission meeting organised to discuss the rules for recruiting the sanitary workers remained inconclusive. Now, the commission members will frame rules and submit to the state government in next meeting. 
 
 Sources in the department said, “This time, the commission is likely to waive the two-child norm which is mandatory for applying government jobs and let those with three children apply for the post of sanitary worker. The rules will be framed accordingly.” 
 
 The urban development and housing (UDH) ministry is too contemplating the move and may issue orders enabling candidates with three children to apply for the post. An announcement in this regard is expected next month.
 
 A source at UDH said, “The department will allow those with three children to apply for sanitary worker’s post. Recruitment of over 20,000 sanitary employees is pending in the state. The government will issue notification to fill these posts next month.”
 
 It is believed that the move is being made to appease the Valmiki community ahead of the 2018 assembly polls. The government will not only provide stable jobs for many, but also fulfil the long-pending demand to allow those with more than two children to apply.
 
 A senior official at UDH said, “We have received a proposal from community members to allow candidates with three children to apply. We are examining the possibilities.”
 
 Since 1996, the state government has not filled up vacancies in Jaipur and others cities such as Kota and Alwar, which require over 8,000 sanitation workers. Predictably, the proposal has brought a smile to many who have been waiting for these openings for nearly two decades in cities.
 
 Govind Gathera, one of the community members, said, “People in our community are uneducated. This is the reason they have more than two kids. If the government is planning to relax the norm, it will be an opportunity for many.”
 
 Rajasthan adopted the two-child policy on June 2001 and barred its employees from having a third child. In 2016, the state cabinet had approved an amendment to Section 25 (C) of the Rajasthan Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 1971, and decided not to take disciplinary action against those having more than two children. However, the government did not relax the norm for promotions of employees.
 
 “As per existing rules, those having more than two kids were not considered for jobs, nor were employees who had a third kid promoted after June 1, 2002. Promotions of many officials, including me, who have been working in the state government for long, were stalled. The government should consider their promotions first rather than allowing a particular section or group apply for jobs,” said a senior official at the secretariat on condition of anonymity.
 
 
