BIHARSHARIF: Police on Sunday recovered the body of Chhatra JD (U)’s state general secretary   Kumar from Alipur Pachuara village in   district.

 Rakesh was missing from Harnaut Baazar area area since May 29. Acting on an information provided by some villagers that a body was found half buried, a police team reached the site and exhumed the body - whose upper portion was buried while the leg was peeping outside. The body was later identified as that of Rakesh Kumar.
 
 Alipur Pachuara village is situated barely 5 km away from Rakesh’s native place Kharuara under the same police station area in Nalanda district.
 
 The younger brother of the deceased, Nitish Kumar, had lodged a police complaint on May 30 against   and Chandan Kumar of Harnaut Bazar and Diwakar Kumar of Kharuara for kidnapping the student leader and taking him to one Deepak Kumar’s residence at Dihra village. Rakesh had drawn Rs 30,000 from a branch of Harnaut-based bank before he was allegedly kidnapped by his friends. 
 
 Meanwhile, the deceased’s father Awadhesh Kumar accused Harnaut police station SHO Sanjay Kumar of releasing the main accused Deepak Kumar, who was also a friend of Rakesh. “The SHO did not properly search Deepak’s house on Thursday where his son was suspected to have been kept in captivity before he was killed. If police had properly searched, the house my son could have been saved,” he alleged.
 
 An FSL team accompanied by a dog squad on Saturday recovered the slippers and blood-soaked clothes of the deceased from a well near Deepak’s house in Dihra village. 
 
 Nalanda SP Sudhir Kumar Porika , who visited Kharuara , the native village of the deceased under Harnaut PS area and Dihra on Saturday said, “One Sonu Kumar was arrested in this connection on Sunday and was being interrogated . All the culprits behind the cold blooded murder would soon be arrested.”
 
 On Friday, relatives and co-villagers of Rakesh had blocked NH-31 near Chandi on Friday to demand his recovery.
 
 The deceased is survived by his wife and two minor daughters. Harnaut police station SHO said that prima facie it appeared that the Chhtra JD(U) leader was killed due to a love affair and added that an investigation is on to ascertain the exact cause of his murder
 
 
