MUMBAI: The   on Thursday rapped the state government for its failure to secure land for two new dumping grounds for the city in Mulund and  .

 Calling it a “shocking state of affairs”, a division bench of Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Pradeep Deshmukh said that 70% of the daily waste generated by the city is dumped by the   in violation of norms. The bench said there was still a “deadlock” two years after assurances were given that land would be allotted to the corporation.
  
  
 “The inaction on the part of the state is causing serious health hazards to the citizens of Mumbai,” said the judges. “We hope and trust that the state government understands the seriousness and gravity of the situation faced by the city.”
 
 The court asked the state to specify within two weeks a deadline by which adequate land would be made available to the BMC for the solid waste management projects.
 
 The city generates between 10,000 tonnes and 11,000 tonnes of solid waste daily. Of its three dumping grounds, only   with a capacity of 3,000 tonnes daily complies with the solid waste management norms. Over 7,000 metric tonnes is dumped at Mulund and Deonar illegally, according to the court. In February 2016, the high court banned new construction projects in the city, excluding redevelopment and slum rehabilitation schemes, over its failure to make its dumps compliant with pollution norms.
 
 At that time, the state had assured the court that it would allot 52 hectares of land in Taloja and 32 hectares of land in Mulund (east) near   bridge to the BMC to set up new dumping grounds. The first phase of the two projects was to commence by 2019. The BMC raised many red flags over the Taloja land, saying only 35 hectares can be used as dumping ground. A gas pipe line runs through the land, a portion is earmarked for the proposed Alibaug-Virar multi-purpose corridor and the remainder has encroachments. The Mulund land is under dispute between the state and the salt department.
 
 The bench said it appeared unlikely that the projects would take off in the near future and the litigation over the Mulund land would take at least 10 years. The judges asked the state why it had not taken up the issue of the Mulund land directly with the Centre. Government pleader Abhinandan Vagyani said the state would schedule a meeting betweeen the authorities. The court scheduled the matter for further hearing on March 1.
 
 
