AHMEDABAD: Union finance secretary Hasmukh Adhia on Sunday said that the Centre had chosen a path of restraint in the budget as   were due next year. The former   was delivering a speech on the Budget and Goods and Services Tax (GST) at the  , Ahmedabad. Adhia also asked why people ask for tax concession every year. He stated that the government is blamed for “not doing enough for the middle class.”

 Speaking about the recent Budget, Adhia said, “We had a very difficult choice to make, and that difficult choice came just a year before the general elections, as the Budget was presented.”
 
 Adhia said, “Normally, there is a tendency on the part of the ruling party to prepare a budget which would please all, make everybody happy (ahead of polls). But thanks to the enlightened leadership we have today, the government chose a path of restraint.”
 
 The finance secretary also urged taxpayers to pay their taxes ‘honestly’ so that the government can pump in more money to improve education and health facilities.
 
 “Why are people asking for tax concession every year? If we keep on reducing tax for people every year, it is not possible for us. We cannot give you concession every year,” he said, adding, “Still we are blamed for not doing enough for the middle class. So, let us pay our taxes honestly, so that we can reach the level of education funding that is required.”
 
 Adhia claimed that the long-term capital gains tax of 10 % is mainly targeted at corporates and it will not leave a major impact on individual investors.
 
 “Is there any logic of keeping one class of investment completely out of tax net? If the stock market is giving a very good return of 14 to 15 per cent per annum for many years and you keep on reaping benefits of 15 per cent every year, is there any logic to keep you out of tax net?" he asked.
 
 The Union government had on February 1 introduced long-term capital gains tax of 10% on stock market gains exceeding Rs 1 lakh.
 
 Adhia claimed that Friday's market crash was caused by plunge in global markets and not because of the long-term capital tax gains.
 
 
