NEW DELHI: A day after deputy CM Manish   claimed that anganwadi workers had not received salaries for three months owing to “inefficiency” of officers,   on Thursday wrote back to him, claiming that there was a delay because funds provided in   2017-18 had been exhausted. He advised Sisodia to introspect on why the budget could not be planned meticulously and provisions for additional requirements made.

 A day earlier, Sisodia had equated bureaucrats with “khap panchayats” and claimed that 10,000 workers, and the same number of helpers, at anganwaadi centres had not been paid for three months because officers had stopped releasing their salaries. Quoting reports from the women and child welfare department, LG said payment of rent to anganwadi premises was up to date (till January 2018) and sufficient funds were available under that head. “It is not correct to say that payment of rent has been pending for three months. Still, if any specific case of unpaid dues is in the notice of deputy CM, he may take (it) up with the department (sic),” LG wrote.
 
 “The department has informed (me) that the payment to anganwadi workers has been made up to November 2017, and that of anganwadi helpers up to December 2017. Payments for the remaining months are pending as funds provided in the budget for this purpose have already been exhausted,” LG pointed out. Baijal also wished that Sisodia had “checked the facts with the department” and taken timely action for provision of funds as finance minister before writing to him.
 
 He stressed on the fact that Sisodia was both a finance minister as well as heading the department of women and child development.
 
 Meanwhile, in strong notings on a file related to the issue, Sisodia wrote: “Senior IAS officers are happy sending the file from one office to another without considering the fact that this has stopped payment for 30,000 poor families and is also affecting the future of 5 lakh kids. Is this only a case of carelessness or a general approach — who cares for these poor people? (sic)”
 
 
