GURUGRAM: A Gurugram court has issued summons to officials of the district administration, Huda and department of town and country planning ( ) to appear before it, with details of plots earmarked for economically weaker sections (EWS) in   2 and 3, along with the colony layout plan exhibiting plots earmarked for EWS, complete details of people to whom   have been allotted, as well as a copy of the report submitted by the Haryana government’s own   policy monitoring committee.

 Judicial magistrate 1st class Akriti Sharma issued summons, taking cognisance of a case filed by Sushant Lok resident Rajendra Kumar Goel, in which government departments have been accused of ignoring irregularities during the development of Sushant Lok 2 and 3. It was alleged that plots earmarked for EWS were illegally sold off to others.
 
 To implement its EWS policy, the Haryana government has a monitoring committee that includes the deputy commissioner, Huda administrator, senior town planner, district town planner (planning) and sub-divisional magistrate. As per terms of the licence, the developer has to reserve 20% of the total number of residential plots (normally of sizes 50 sq yd, 75 sq yd, 100 sq yd and 125 sq yd) for EWS applicants, in the layout plan of the colony approved by DTCP. 
 
 Apart from this, 20% plots have to be sold on no-profit-no-loss (NPNL) basis. Sushant Lok 2 and 3, which were developed on 500 acres in total, should have allotted 55 acres for EWS and another 55 acres for NPNL, after leaving out open spaces for roads, parks etc. DTCP is stipulated to call for and maintain complete records and details of plots allotted in the EWS and   categories.
 
 “As per terms of licence, these plots were to be allotted at a flat rate of Rs 500 per sq yd to EWS, through draw of lots after inviting applications through press, to eligible persons whose total family income, inclusive of that of the husband, wife and dependent children, does not exceed Rs 3,500 per month,” said Yatish Goel, counsel for petitioner, adding no EWS allotments were made and the entire process was manipulated.
 
 “The developer, in connivance with officials, has illegally sold plots earmarked for EWS at market price, and pocketed the money,” alleged Goel. “In order to ascertain that 20% of land has been allotted on NPNL basis, it was necessary that in-depth scrutiny is done by the licensing authority regarding cost of plots and allotment price. Also, there needs to be an audit done by the department to ensure transparency. But no such scrutiny was done by the licensing authority,” said Goel.
 
 “According to a conservative estimate, the market price of plots earmarked for EWS and NPNL categories illegally sold by the developer is several hundred crores of rupees, and may be more. Only an in-depth investigation can unearth that,” said Goel.
 
 District town planner R S Batth, who was unaware of the issue, said, “We’ll discuss it at the highest level and respond to it (court summon).” He said it is mandatory to have EWS plots in plotted colonies and EWS flats in group housing societies.
 
 Ansal Buildwell, which has developed Sushant Lok 2 and 3, could not be contacted for their comment. 
 
 
