Chennai: Alisha Sharma, an IT professional who is preparing herself for a role change from a tech to a managerial role, is looking for a makeover that would help her look appealing for the role. Time strapped and lack of knowledge on latest trends in grooming, she enrolled the services of a personal shopper. “They collect all details including size, preferences and the occasions for which the clothes are needed and come up with clothes that are apt for us,” she said. Such personal shoppers and stylists are on the rise, helping those in need with sense of latest trends that shop the right clothes and accessories. Personal shoppers can be individuals with a sense of fashion and latest market updates. Startups such as Snobbox and Elanstreet offer online services and are mostly frequented by women for occasion-driven wearing. Harshal Nath, co-founder, Snob box adds the customer needs to fill out a form – options will be given out and one needs to pick the one they need. Consultation charges of Rs 199 apply besides the cost of the dress they pick from the options. “After consultation, they get a set of clothes and pay only for the one they want from the lot. We offer offline consultation as well, where the customers visit the studio and the shoppers set out. We have over 8,000 active customers,” he said. Retail chains such as Shoppers Stop are also warming up to the concept, employing personal shoppers over and above the assistants, to help the elite shopper. “These people are in touch with brands periodically to know about the latest releases. They have helped increase conversions for the store,” said Govind Shrikhande, managing director, Shoppers Stop. Paid close to 50% higher than regular shopping assistants on the floor, these personal shoppers have increased conversion The company has been employing personal shoppers for a year now and Shrikhande adds thatcontributing to 11% of the total sale. “We are usually approached by those in the brink of a new career change or a role that entails them to change the way they look. Some orders also come for occasions as well. Personal shoppers travel around and do some recce before shopping for the clients. The service costs starts from Rs 499 per assignment and up to a lakh for luxury purchases,” said Gargi Banerjee Koul, co-founder, Elanstreet.