“Particle physics, what is that?" asks S Pasumpon while harvesting groundnuts from his field at  , one of the villages around the Ambarappar hillock near Bodi in Theni district under which the India-based Neutrino Observatory (INO) is set to come up. The ministry of environment and forests recently cleared the construction of the research laboratory. 

 However, the project which aims at detecting and studying atmospheric neutrinos is Greek to most  . No wonder then that clouds of resistance have been gathering around the project over the past few weeks with a worker of a political party immolating himself on Saturday.
 
 "Why should I have this project in my backyard? I want to leave a serene atmosphere to my children. Though the rains are scanty, agriculture is still thriving and I cultivate crop after crop," adds Pasumpon.
 
 It will take a lot to convince the villagers why their movements around the hillock should be restricted for a mere study project. Many of them are small farm owners who eke out a living by growing a variety of crops like coconut and maize depending on the water yield in their wells. Many others herd livestock.
 
 There are two village panchayats around the proposed INO — Pottipuram and Erranampatti. The former consists of Pottipuram, Ramakrishnapuram, Pudukottai, Chinnapottipuram, Thimmanayakkanpatti and Kuppanasaripatti villages while Erranampatti comprises Erranampatti, Konampatti, Kandasamipuram and Chikkachettipatti villages.
 
 With monsoon failing for two consecutive years, reports about the "huge volume of water" to be used for the project have been causing much heartburn among farmers. "They say at least 350mcft water is to be drawn every day. Is there so much of water here? Also, what will happen to ground water?" says V Deivajothi, a farm worker at Ramakrishnapuram.
 
 "They started the 18th canal work to divert water from the Mullaperiyar Dam for farming. But now, it appears that Neutrino will gulp down most of it," she rued.
 
 Project director of INO Vivek Datar said people who had no scientific knowledge were spreading canards and causing unwarranted fear among locals. "We will not touch the ground water of Pottipuram and that is why we are sourcing water from Mullaperiyar Dam which is 20km away. We will take steps to ensure that the water table in the region is protected through conservation techniques,’’ he said.
 
 He said the original detector of 100kilotonnes would have required 340 kilo litres of water, whereas the 50kilotonnes detector which will be set up now will only require half the volume of water. "The detector would be bigger, but less sophisticated than the one in CERN," he said referring to the European research organisation operating the largest particle physics lab in the world.
 
 Environmental researcher V T Padmanabhan, who had published his findings on the project in the journal Research Gate, however, said, "The tunnelling of hard rock will disturb underground springs and aquifers for about 50sq km in TN and Kerala where there are 15 dams storing more than 3 billion cubic metres of water. Tonnes of explosives will be used for tunnelling which may lead to blast-induced earthquakes disturbing the rock pattern and ground water flow."
 
 Naba K Mondal, former director of the project, countered this. "Tunnel construction is not an activity akin to blasting in quarries. The peak ground vibration at about half-a-kilometre from the blast area is about 1 mm/sec and the nearest habitation is nearly 2km away. There will be no impact of this blasting on the dams which are 10km away or the nearest habitation which is 2km away," he said. 
 
 But people protesting against the project have been mobilising quietly. "Some people visit the villages, seeking support to oppose the project. There were some of them here last night," said Selvam, a cowherd.
 
 ‘We don’t want this project and we are not going to allow it," asserts Amritaraj. 
 
 Villagers are also frustrated at political parties failing them in this regard. At Pottipuram, villagers were angry that DMK during its rule had approved the site for the project. Local DMK worker S Muthuvijayan who has been getting a lot of stick puts on a brave face, "It is true that DMK was in power at that time, but it is evident that our party is against it and Stalin has now expressed his  ."
 
 Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam who won from the Bodi constituency has also been facing the heat. "We saw him last during the elections and that was it. Only MDMK’s Vaiko has been opposing it from the beginning", said K Ganesan and S Gubendran at Pudukottai village.
 
 (With inputs from Padmini Sivarajah)
 
 
