NEW DELHI: In a landmark verdict aimed at bringing more transparency and curbing money power in elections, the   on Friday ruled that a candidate would have to make public the source of his income along with that of his spouse and dependants.

 
 Holding that voters have a fundamental right to know all the relevant information about the candidates including their sources of income, a bench of Justices   and S   directed the Centre to amend the   and Form 26 to incorporate the provision on declaration of source of income. It also directed that the candidates would also have to provide information regarding contracts with any government agency or PSUs, either by them or spouse and dependants.
 
 "The voter is entitled to have all relevant information about the candidates at an election. The information regarding the sources of income of the candidates and their associates would in our opinion, certainly help the voter to make an informed choice of the candidate to represent the constituency in the legislature. It is, therefore, a part of their fundamental right," the bench said.
 
 "The enforcement of such a fundamental right needs no statutory sanction. This court and the HCs are authorised by the Constitution to give directions to the state and its instrumentalities for enforcement of Fundamental Rights," the apex court said. 
 
 The SC said the experience of the first 50 years of the functioning of democracy in the country disclosed some undesirable trends that have crept into its working and it was necessary to deal with it on urgent basis to maintain purity of the electoral process.
 
 The bench made it clear that non-disclosure of the information by candidates would constitute a corrupt practice falling under heading undue influence as defined under the Representation of People Act, and the election of the candidate could be quashed if elected.
 
 "We direct that Rule 4A of the RULES and Form 26 appended to the RULES shall be suitably amended, requiring candidates and their associates to declare their sources of income," the bench said.
 
