MUMBAI:   officials have decided to approach the   government to get   collection-cum-transporation contracts worth Rs 500 crore cleared in favour of four “tainted” contractors after the   rejected the proposal on Wednesday.

 “We will examine the standing committee’s explanation while rejecting the proposal. We will take legal opinion on it and will approach state government to get it approved. Because of delay in appointing contractors, civic authority lose crores of rupees,” a senior civic official said.
 
 On Wednesday, the BMC standing committee members slammed the civic administration for proposing to appoint tainted contractors for garbage collection. These contractors were accused of cheating the BMC earlier by mixing debris in garbage to maximise profits.
 
 The standing committee rejected the proposal and slammed the civic administration for misleading it about ongoing actions against the tainted contractors. The   for the tainted contractors expired last year but they were given an extension till the appointment of a new contractor. Most of them applied for a new contract and the civic authority cleared these, which upset the standing committee members.
 
 Standing committee members claimed that earlier the civic administration had admitted on record that it had filed police complaint against the nine contractors who were found mixing debris with garbage to increase its weight. But on Wednesday, the administration confessed that no police action was initiated against most of the contractors. POlice action was initiated against only two. Standing committee member and Congress corporator Ravi Raja produced a copy of the police complaint which the civic administration had submitted to the police last year requesting an FIR against the nine contractors.
 
 Standing committee members alleged that the civic administration was trying to favour the contractor by not following up on the complaint submitted to the police.
 
 Ravi Raja wrote to civic chief Ajoy Mehta requesting him to form a special investigation team (SIT) to investigate the Rs 1,000 crore scam.
 
 
