PILIBHIT: A joint team of   and   police on Sunday recovered a paper-laden truck from Faizabad. The truck had been looted by armed robbers in an area between Pilibhit and   on January 10. Police managed to nab two of the three robbers. The third is absconding.
 
  An FIR had been lodged in the matter at Puranpur Kotwali police station in Pilibhit. The accused were identified as Ravi Mishra, a resident of Raiganj under Ayodhya police station, Suraj Kumar Dube, a resident of Naye Ka Poorva under Tikait police station in Barabanki city and Raman Tiwari, a resident of Usaru locality near Avadh University under Faizabad city police station in Faizabad.
  
  The robbers had held three people in the truck, including the driver and the helper, hostage, tying their hand and feet with a rope and also gagging them. They had then left the trio at Sona police station area of Basti district. Superintendent of police (SP) Kalanidhi Naithani said that the driver had somehow managed to free himself and call the owner of the truck, who then lodged an FIR under section 394 (robbery) of IPC at Puranpur Kotwali police station in Pilibhit.
  
  The truck had a loaded stock of paper from Century Pulp and Paper mill at Lalkuan in   and was on its way to Guwahati in   via Pilibhit and Kheri when it was looted. “We kept working on the case with the help of surveillance as well as the special weapons and tactics (SWAT) teams and collected information about the truck’s location, before zeroing in on Faizabad. A special police team of Pilibhit police was immediately sent to Faizabad, which recovered the paper-laden truck with the assistance of Faizabad police on Saturday,” Naithani said.
  
  After the recovery of the truck and the paper stock, a fresh FIR was lodged with Haidarganj police station in Faizabad under sections 41(A “special law”, or a law applicable to a particular subject), 411(dishonestly receiving stolen property), 413 (habitually dealing in stolen property), 414(assisting in concealment of stolen property), 467(forgery of valuable security, will, etc),468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471(using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) of IPC, he said. Naithani said a cash prize of Rs 10,000 was awarded to the concerned police team of Pilibhit for their performance.
