MUMBAI: A software engineer from Andheri was arrested on charges of creating a fake   handle of  , daughter of  , and uploading derogatory and defamatory comments against NCP supremo  . 

 The cyber police also seized a laptop, two mobile phones, a router and other computer accessories used by Nitin Sishode, 39, from his Military Road, Marol, Andheri, residence.
 
  Sishode, who deals in second-hand laptops and mobile phone, and accessories has been booked for impersonation, cheating and defamation under IPC and the IT Act. He was produces in court and remanded in police custody till February 9. 
 
 Sachin Tendulkar's personal assistant had filed a complaint with the cyber police on Sachin's behalf that somebody has created a Twitter handle in the name of Sara, who is studying in London. It said Sachin was shocked by the fake account and reacted on several occasions that it was a fake profile.
 
 "The Twitter handle which goes by the login ID @sarasachin_rt has uploaded several comments on Indian politics," said an officer. One post by the handle said: "Everyone knows that SP looted Maharashtra state but (it is) little known that he tried (it at the) Centre too."
 
 After the complaint, the police scrutinized Twitter and found that several people had commented that the handle was not Sara's as she was not active on Twitter and also not interested in politics. "After going through the derogatory remarks and finding that it was a fake handle, we registered an offence and traced the IP address to Sishode's house in Andheri. With technical help, we also got confirmation that a particular router was used by Sishode," said a senior cop on condition of anonymity.
 
 Sishode's adovate Ajay Dubey said Sishode has been implicated. "My client deals in second-hand computers and laptops. Though he told the police that somebody who bought a laptop from him may have uploaded the derogatory remarks, the police refused to listen and arrested him," he said.
 
 The cops will now send Sishode's laptop to forensic experts to extract details about the user.
 
 
 
