NAGPUR: Manish Markam, 35, his younger brother and two older sisters, from village Sohgaon in Pakhanjur tehsil of Chhattisgarh’s   district, had long believed that their mother Ghurenbai (Rekha), was no more. She had left home in mentally disturbed state some 30 years back and was not heard of since. Their world changed about 10 days back when local police told them Ghurenbai was not only alive but also cured of her mental illness.

 On Monday, the family had an emotional reunion at Nagpur’s Regional Mental Hospital (RMH). Ghurenbai had been admitted at RMH for about 11 years. The family didn’t know how to react. “While I cried with joy, sister Sumitra ran out to inform the neighbours her mother was alive. We contacted our maternal uncle Ghururam Jurry and began planning visit to Nagpur,” Manish told TOI while completing formalities to get his mother discharged from RMH.
 
 Every now and then tears would roll down Manish’s eyes while Sumitra could not stop looking at her mother and smiling. The elder daughter Shakuntala kept her calm and was trying to comprehend the changed situation. Ghurenbai recognized her neighbour Ashamati immediately as also her brother Ghururam. Both were purposely called to recognize her by RMH authorities. She obviously would not recognize her children as they were very small when she left them.
 
 No one knows who gave Ghurenbai the name Rekha, but that’s her name registered at RMH. She was sent to RMH through magisterial orders from Gadchiroli and was admitted on August 27, 2007. She was apparently found wandering in Gadchiroli district. Nothing is known how she reached there and where she had been until then.
 
 The hospital staff gave bangles and bindi for Ghurenbai to the daughters who are now between 35 and 40 years old. Ghururam hinted her sister was a widow now but the two delighted women would hear none of it. They said she was a woman and she deserved all this.
 
 While the family was coming to terms with its feelings, the doctors and the social workers at RMH were a bit sad to see Ghurenbai depart. “She was quiet and such a nice woman. She never shouted at anyone, never behaved like an unstable person. She would do all the work like making rotis and cleaning grains. After she recovered from her illness she would recall name of her husband and village. It was her will that gave me the power to work hard to search for her relatives,” said Sandhya Durge, social service superintendent at RMH.
 
 “Had Durge not googled the places Ghurenbai recalled we would have never found her. She got in touch with the local police after finding the police stations on Google. Our letters on postal address we had never reached anybody,” said Dr Nitin Gulhane, anaesthetist at RMH.
 
 Dr Praveen Navkhare, deputy superintendent of RMH, sees the reunion as hospital’s success. “Doctors successfully treated her. Social workers could trace her address after repeated communication with her. Most of all, it is so nice that poor tribal people came forward to accept this woman whom they had long forgotten. Educated people with resources should also come forward to accept their dear ones,” he said indicating it is not often the case.
 
 
