MUMBAI: Almost three months after it was stalled due to a series of procedural hurdles, the  's ( ) most ambitious project, the  , seems set to take off, with the inaugural edition slated from March 11 to 21 at the  .

 
 On Thursday, batting legend Sachin  , who was recently roped in as the brand ambassador of the league, felt that it was about time that the city - a traditional power house in Indian cricket, staged this kind of a tournament. "I firmly believe that something like this (T20 League) was needed for Mumbai cricket. Mumbai cricket has always led Indian cricket and the numbers are the biggest proof. I feel really happy to be part of this league," said the 44-year-old.
 
 Like most leagues, Tendulkar backed this one too to provide valuable exposure to Mumbai youngsters. "Mumbai have won the Ranji Trophy 41 times. You've got terrific history. I still remember as a kid, at the Shivaji Park - Kamath Memorial club - Paddy sir ( ), would come and bowl to me. He was possibly thrice my age at that time. Such things happen in Mumbai. It would be nice if the youngsters are playing alongside some big names in Mumbai cricket. They get to learn, and that is something that I am looking forward to seeing," said the retired legend.
 
 Tendulkar felt that the league will financially help even those cricketers from the city who aren't able to make it to the   team. Referring to a time when it was perhaps tougher to get into the Mumbai side than even the Indian team, Tendulkar said: "I remember there are so many names in Mumbai cricket who should have played for India but at that moment, there wasn't a spot available for them. But they were really good and would have gone on to play for India. Similarly, so many club cricketers would have gone on to play the Ranji Trophy, but they couldn't do that."
 
 He then stressed about how the Mumbai T20 league would help in this regard. "By playing in these leagues, even if you don't go and play the Ranji Trophy, you can still look after your family, and that is the most important thing for any individual. If you can look after your family, make it feel financially secure and be its backbone, it's the greatest feeling anyone can get. This is why I feel that this league is here to stay. It has opened many doors for youngsters, not just cricketers but also the support staff - coaches, physios, doctors, etc. A league is a package deal. A lot of things happen around it, and that's why I am excited about it."
 
 While the list of team owners would be finalised on Friday, it's been reported that Mumbai developer  , who was the co-owner of the disbanded  , has bought a team.
 
 The Mumbai T20 League will feature six teams, named Mumbai North, Mumbai North-West, Mumbai North-East, Mumbai North-Central, Mumbai South-Central, and Mumbai South.
 
 The base price for purchasing a team was Rs 3 crore with Rs 35 lakh as players' salary cap. The players' auction is likely to be held on February 28. Each team will have to put up its players in a hotel and spend Rs 15 lakh on coaches.
 
