ASANSOL: Even as political parties indulge in a war of words over the Ram Navami clashes in  , a Muslim trader from  's   has donated Rs 10,000 each to 12 persons whose shops at the town's Chandmari Shibmandir area were ransacked in the violence to help them restart their businesses. "We have been doing business together for years in this area. I did my small bit to help out my fellow traders," Haji Nahnane Khan said. 

 The   ( ), meanwhile, has taken suo motu cognizance of the violence in the Raniganj-Asansol area and sought a report from the Bengal government within a month. 
 
 A Muslim trader from Asansol’s Qurashi Mohalla threw a lifeline to12 shop owners at Chandmari Shibmandir area whose shops were ransacked during the Ram Navami violence on March 25. Haji Nahnane Khan on Monday gave each of the shop owners Rs 10,000 to help re-start their businesses without having to wait for government relief.
 
 “We have been doing business together for years in this area. I did my bit to help out my fellow traders. I believe people in other areas will also extend a helping hand to their neighbours,” Khan said on Monday.
 
 Paan shop owner Uma Shankar Gupta, Manoj Yadav and Niranjan Shaw were all praise for Khan. “He had come to us as our shops stood vandalised. We didn’t have the money to begin business again. Khan told us not to lose heart. He offered us money and asked whether we were ready to accept that. We agreed,” said Shaw.
 
 Later, Asansol mayor Jitendra Tewari announced Rs 2 lakh compensation for the dead and Rs10,000 for those whose properties had been damaged.
 
 Taking the cue, citizens took out a peace rally in Asansol from Ramkrishna More to Hutton Road soon after the administration lifted Section 144 from the area.
 
 While taking suo motu cognizance of the violence in the Raniganj-Asansol area, the National Human Rights Commission has issued notices to the chief secretary, home secretary, the and director general of police, West Bengal, calling for a detailed report on the matter in a month. The commission, in its notice, has underlined the allegations from people in the riot-hit areas that no police personnel came to their help although they had dialled100, the police helpline.
 
 The commission has also asked its director general (investigation) to depute a team headed by an officer not below the rank of SSP to visit the disturbed areas of Asansol-Raniganj for spot investigations to assess the situation and submit areport within three weeks.
 
 Joy Banerjee, a BJP leader from Birbhum, visited victims’ families and called on the imam of the Noorani Masjid, who had appealed for peace after his son was killed in the violence. Banerjee later told reporters that he would propose the imam’s name for the President’s Award.
 
 
