MUMBAI: In a setback to the state government, the   on Friday struck down its decision to shift teacher salary accounts from a nationalised bank to the   ( ). 

 A division bench of Justice Bhushan Gavai and Justice Burgess Colabawalla termed the education department's June 2017 decision requiring shifting of around 23,000 salary accounts of teaching and non-teaching staff of aided schools "abrupt" and "without any rational (sic)." The HC also called out education minister Vinod Tawde's shifting stances while in opposition and now as part of government. As leader of opposition, Tawde had complained about "irregularities" at MDCB, taking complaints even to the governor, but as education minister he thought it fit to require shifting of salary accounts from Union Bank to the cooperative bank. MDCB is headed by   MLC Pravin Darekar.
 
 The bench said it found no rationale in the state's decision to abruptly change a policy when the system was working smoothly. The court said the same person, who as opposition leader, found the bank's functioning "precarious" and "full of irregularities," thought it fit now for substitution of the system. The court clarified it had not expressed any opinion about the bank's condition or its functioning. It directed the salary account would be shifted to a nationalised bank. 
 
 In a statement to the media, Tawde said the state would decide its course of action once it obtained a copy of the order. "If HC has ordered, the education department would go to a nationalised bank. We will seek a clarification if the orders are limited to Mumbai or will operate across the state. We appreciate that during Ganesh and Diwali festivals, due to the fact that there was no money in the account, MDCB had credited salaries of teachers so there would be no delay. We doubt if such a facility would be available with a nationalised bank. But we will definitely implement HC orders, but will take a decision on course of action once we get a copy," the minister said.
 
 The court was hearing petitions filed by teachers' associations, including  , challenging the June 14, 2017 directive. Advocate Mihir Desai, counsel for the union, had called the order arbitrary and against the state's rules. 
 
 
