PUNE: One civic engineer, three firemen and eight police personnel, including four policewomen, were injured on Thursday when a demolition drive at   Budruk faced violent resistance from a stone-pelting mob.

 The heavy police posse, deployed at the site to provide cover to the demolition staff, was able to bring the situation under control, but not before several on-duty officials were injuries and civic vehicles were damaged. Later, the Kondhwa police detained 20 troublemakers and the drive continued.
 
 
  
 The   (PMC) had started the drive at around 9 am to demolish more than 100 encroachments and unauthorized structures — mostly tin sheds and slums — on a 40,000 sqft tract of land in Survey No. 47 at Kondhwa Khurd. The site in on a hill at Gokulnagar, off the Katraj-Kondhwa bypass.
 
 “The land was earmarked for an overhead water tank project,” said Sunil Ahire, the civic deputy engineer for water supplies. “Thrice in the past, the encroachments were removed. However, the slum dwellers kept returning,” he said.
 
 “The drive progressed smoothly for an hour or so before a restive mob, comprising mostly women, started gathering at the site and soon turned violent. People pelted stones at civic vehicles, staffers as well as police personnel,” said  , the senior inspector of Kondhwa police. He said PMC executive engineer  , eight cops and three firemen were hurt.
 
 Senior police officials, including additional commissioner of police Pradip Deshpande, deputy commissioner of police (Zone IV) Deepak Sakore and assistant commissioner of police (Wanowrie division) Milind Patil, rushed to the site. At least 80 police personnel, including 40 policewomen, were deployed at the site, and 33 cops from the PMC’s anti-encroachment squad were also present. A riot-control patrol and a fire brigade tender were also deployed. “We have taken around 20 people into custody and have registered an FIR for obstructing PMC and others from performing duty under various Sections of the IPC, Criminal Law Amendment and Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act,” Gaikwad said.
 
 Meanwhile, the slum dwellers said, “PMC commissioner Kunal Kumar had inspected the spot and had assured relocation. However, nothing happened. We were forcibly evicted after Kumar was transferred.”
 
 
