CHANDIGARH: A five-hour-long discussion on Sunday preceded the Panjab University (PU) senate decision to ask registrar to withdraw the   filed by vice-chancellor Prof Arun Kumar Grover on governance reforms in the Punjab and Haryana high court following the VC’s refusal to budge from his stand.

 The senate in its meeting, however, did not follow the recommendation by the syndicate to take back the delegated powers of the VC. However, there was no change in the decision regarding the powers of VC taken back by the syndicate.
 
 At the meeting, both   and   held similar views on withdrawing the affidavit. “Unless you withdraw this affidavit, the germs of dissent and the germs of disaffection will remain. What is the hitch in withdrawing the affidavit? Even if you have filed the affidavit in personal capacity, are you justified to do that? The affidavit should be withdrawn,” said former   railway minister and PU fellow Pawan Bansal.
 
 Chandigarh BJP chief Sanjay Tandon spoke next. “I compliment Bansalji. And agree that affidavit should be withdrawn,” he said. “The sentiments of the house is that you should withdraw the affidavit. Your prestige is also our prestige and at the same time, the dignity of the senate and syndicate should be restored,” said Subhash Sharma, Chandigarh BJP secretary.
 
 PU Non-teaching Association president Deepak Kaushik said Grover should drop his ego and withdraw the affidavit. Senator Ashok Goyal said the entire house has this sentiment that whatever he has done is wrong and the affidavit should be withdrawn.
 
 Gurjot Singh Malhi, IPS (retd), suggested a resolution should be passed to direct the registrar to submit to the court to treat the affidavit as withdrawn. On this, the VC said, “I respect the unanimous opinion of the house.”
 
 However, former vice-chancellor Prof R P Bambah suggested forming a committee to resolve the crisis. “I suggest that a committee should be formed so that the matter is resolved in a dignified manner.” To this, senator Shelly Walia said that forming a committee would mean procrastination.
 
 Photo quotes
 
 Unless you withdraw this affidavit, the germs of dissent and the germs of disaffection will remain. What is the hitch in withdrawing the affidavit? Even if you have filed the affidavit in the personal capacity, are you justified to do that? The affidavit should be withdrawn
 
 Pawan Kumar Bansal | Former railway minister and PU fellow
 
 “Ye Shimla ka mall road nahi hai jahan aap kabhi aa ja sakte hain (This is not the mall road of Shimla where you can come and go anytime). You have to take the permission of the court even if you have to withdraw the affidavit
 
 Satya Pal Jain, additional solicitor general of India and PU senator
 
 
