CHANDIGARH: High drama was witnessed when an unidentified man allegedly in an inebriated condition hit his car into another while reversing near the dividing road of sectors 43 and 44 in the early hours of Friday.

 The accused fled in his badly damaged Honda City car with police asking him to get down. He was, however, chased by the   had left on the road, and was traced at the   in Phase VIII, Mohali, from where he escaped again in another car in the presence of police.
 
 Romy Vishal Singh Chauhan, owner of a Sector 9-based restaurant, was on his way back home to Phase 3B2 in Mohali in his Hyundai Verna car. The Honda City car was around 100 metre ahead of Chauhan’s car. The driver abruptly applied brakes on seeing a police control room (PCR) van stationed on the roadside and reversed the car in high speed, ramming into Chauhan’s car. Such was the impact that the Honda City was badly damaged and its rear left wheel burst. The victim called police and his family members.
  
  
 A team of police arrived at the spot. Family members of the victim shot a video in which the accused in seen getting into the damaged car on pretext of parking it on one side of the road, but escaped.
 
 Tushan, cousin of the victim, alleged the accused managed to escape in presence of cops. The accused’s car had left marks on the road. Chauhan along with his family members followed the marks and managed to trace the accused behind the private hospital. Tushan informed head constable Ravinder Singh, who had come to   spot, and also called Mohali police control room.
 
 Ravinder Singh along with constable Mukesh Kumar arrived at the spot. In the video shot by the family member of the victim, Tushan and Chauhan are seen arguing with Ravinder to get the accused medically examined. Tushan alleged the accused claimed to be an   officer. While the victim and family were pressing to get the accused medically examined, one SUV arrived. The occupant of the SUV told police that the accused was injured and needed medical attention. Tushan alleged that the occupant of the SUV took away the accused, while the police failed to act.
 
 Sector 36 police registered a case. The identity of the accused is yet to be ascertained.
 
