COIMBATORE: More skeletons have started tumbling out of Bharathiar University’s closet after the arrest of   A Ganapathi. The director (in-charge) of the School of Distance Education R Mathivanan, who is facing DVAC charges for aiding the vice-chancellor, has also come under the scanner of the higher education department since his appointment to the post was made allegedly violating norms.

 Mathivanan was appointed to the post in March 2016 by Ganapathi, barely a year after he was made the director of UGC – Human Resource Centre located in the university campus by former vice-chancellor G James Pitchai. While the posting in the UGC centre is not being questioned, objections were raised about posting him as the distance education department director. “Only a teaching faculty of the university should be appointed as the distance education director. Mathivanan was not a teaching faculty. He was working as the principal of Bharathiar University’s constituent college in Modakurichi,’’ said a source.
 
 A senior state education department official said the government was kept in the dark about the appointment of Mathivanan. “We were not aware about it. We will scrutinise the appointment,” said the official.
 
 Former registrar of the university KG Senthil Vasan and syndicate member Kamalakannan had registered objections about appointing Mathivanan as the director of the School of Distance Education at the time of the appointment. But, he managed to get through.
 
 The distance education department had a full-time director from 2013–16 when P   was serving. After his tenure, former registrar of the university Senthil Vasan was appointed as the director (in-charge) of distance education for a month. Subsequently, professor PE Thomas took charge for a few months.
 
 “There are a lot of senior professors working in  , who are eligible for the post. But, for the first time in the university’s history, a professor from the UGC – Human Resource Development, was appointed,’’ said a university faculty.
 
 “Mathivanan’s appointment should be thoroughly probed. Syndicate members should also be questioned, because many of them did not object to his posting,” said T Veeramani, president of the Tamil Nadu Government Collegiate Teachers Association ( ).
 
 Mathivanan, who has been on leave since Monday, was not available for comment.
 
 
