KOCHI: Members of Apple Projects Investors Association and Consortium, a group formed by various investors who were cheated by real estate firm   alleged that the administrator - appointed by the high court to look at the case - has failed to ensure justice. Since nothing has happened over the past six years, they threatened to intensify their agitation in the coming days. 

 Businessman  , who invested around Rs. 18.5 lakh, said the firm falsely created an impression among the public that the case was resolved with  's ( ) assistance.
 
 "Despite agreeing to return money to respective clients before Kelsa, no investor in our association got a refund. We approached the court when the firm failed to give us apartments and villas in 2011 after collecting Rs 225 crore from investors from 2006 to 2011," he said, adding that only two of the 19 projects announced by the firm was completed and given to investors. Consortium members said that in 2016, a scheme was formulated by the firm's owners with the assistance of Kelsa to reach an arrangement with creditors and members. The scheme was filed under Section 391 of the Companies Act. "According to the scheme filed in HC in 2016, Apple Ice and Apple New Cochin projects were to be cancelled and a refund was to be given by selling the firm's property," said Joy, an investor.
 
 Pillai and other Consortium members alleged that the administrator was following the instructions of Saju Kadavilan and   who allegedly orchestrated the fraud. They felt that Kelsa's decision to undertake the case was dubious. "The case that began in July 2011 is still continuing in court. Some investors money committed suicide as they lost hope," said  , an association member.
 
 Consortium members said the administrator failed to follow the recommendations of the scheme. "The administrator violated the HC order issued in 2016 which stated that registration of plots must be done within six weeks. Now, 15 months have gone by and no action has been taken," said Pillai.
 
 
