Chandigarh: Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights ( ) celebrated “National Girl Child Day” in Tagore Theatre, Sector 18, Chandigarh by crowning their ambassadors and honouring the girls who were academic toppers on Monday.

 It was shared that this year, CCPCR is focusing on providing opportunities to girls for their growth and development as well as recognising their achievements. Although, they initially announced four names as their ambassadors, they crowned five girls -Yashkeerat Kaur, Shubhjot Dayal, Kashish Sharma, Taniya Bhatia and Prerna,
 
 With the launch of the campaign, “Gal Wakdi”, CCPCR would increase awareness of gender inequality faced by girls in India based. The programme “Gal Wakdi”, designed by Niti Mohan, consultant at CCPCR, has three parts- first being ‘Prepare Girls to Lead’ (mentoring), ‘Empowering them’ and ‘Be Advocates of Change through Brand Ambassadors’- on Monday.
 
 The mentoring programme is created with the objective of providing young girls in various government schools the support, advice, friendship, reinforcement and constructive role-modelling. Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child would be conducting sensitisation of girls on sexual offence, self-defence training and other of girl students will be conducted at regular intervals.
 
 The programme begins with a cultural dance ‘Sarswati Vandana’ by the girls of child care institutions. The commission also showcased the ‘POCSO sensitisation’ for the children of the city. Safety punditz, an initiative by Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights in collaboration with Delhi Public School, Sector 40, Chandigarh was also launched.
 
 The event also showcased self-defence and Gathka performances. The six-month journey of the commission was also shown through a documentary during the event. An enthralling performance on the rights of women and girl children was showcased through a play “Chirdi di Ambaar wal udaan” by a renowned theatre artist Anita Shabdeesh.
 
 Governor of Punjab and Administrator UT Chandigarh V P Singh Badnore said, “It is unfortunate that girls face ordeals because of their age and gender among other compounded factors. Therefore, as a society, country and an individual, it is imperative to reject discrimination against the girl child and ensure equal opportunities for them by building multi-disciplinary approach combining strong responsive and preventive strategies.” He also quoted the examples of Mayo School, Ajmer which empowered girls to attain a sustainable life with dignity and worth.
 
 Chairperson of CCPCR Harjinder Kaur, while speaking on the occasion, said, CCPCR is committed for the welfare of the girls. It will enforce the laws for the welfare of the children especially girls. She also highlighted that the commission is determined towards its vision to make Chandigarh a child-friendly city.
 
 The commission had organised a “Beti Bachao Beti Padhao” contest in government schools whose winners were awarded today as well. Commission also awarded a tablet and certificate to the girl academic topper of the city.
 
 The commission also held a traditional pagri ceremony with the brand ambassadors as a sign of empowerment and also that they along with the CCPCR would embark upon a journey for the upliftment of Chandigarh girls.
 
 Consul general of Canada Christopher Gibbins said the government of Canada is happy and keen to work with Government of India in empowering children especially girls.
 
 Wrong name announced twice
 
 The commission had some embarrassing moments during the event, one of them was the confusion while announcing the name of the NGO, they wanted to award under the category ‘Best NGO for working for the girl child’. After the announcer announced the name of an NGO twice, she was asked not to do so by the commission members. The award was then given to some other NGO.
 
 ‘No talking’ moment for Chairperson
 
 The audience, especially the students, had some light moments during the event as the governor asked the chairperson of CCPCR Harjinder Kaur to pay attention to what he was saying on the stage. She was standing just next to him and was discussing something with her consultant.
 
 
