MUMBAI: Bombay high court has slammed   (MSBTE) for having acted as a "postman" for the management of an institute and recommending closure of a polytechnic in Ulhasnagar. It also frowned upon the state government for permitting closure in a "most mechanical manner." 

  On February 24, 2015, the MSBTE granted no-objection to the Hyderabad (Sind) National Collegiate Board which also runs   at Churchgate, for phase-wise closure of S H Mansukhani Institute of Technology. On its recommendation, the   on April 30, 2015 granted approval to close diploma courses in computer engineering, electronics, telecommunication and information technology. 
 
 Quashing and setting aside both orders, a bench of justices   and   on January 12 held, "We have, therefore, no hesitation in holding MSBTE has totally abdicated its function," it added. The court also junked the government resolution of May 25, 2015, so far as it applied to the institute granting permission for the closure saying it is "unsustainable in law."
 
 The court was hearing a petition filed by 33 teaching and non-teaching staff. In 2015, the board assured HC the teachers would not be terminated as approval for closure was not granted. Petitioners' advocates Suresh Pakale, Vinod Raman and C R Sadashivam argued that MSBTE did not follow the procedure laid down under the MSBTE Act regarding closure. Senior advocate Mihir Desai, appearing for the institute, said the decision to close was taken due to financial losses.
 
 The judges said the collegiate board, in its application, had not fully stated the grounds for closure nor had it given details of assets and funding. They said MSBTE plays a vital role right from grant of permission to open a new college and affiliation and it should have conducted an enquiry on whether closure could be permitted or avoided or if the government could take over the institute or transfer it to another management.
 
 It merely wrote to AICTE informing of its no- objection and the board's undertaking to absorb staff when it starts a community college. The judgment is stayed for six weeks.
 
 
