DABOLIM: An Indian   MiG 29K, a frontline fighter aircraft, veered off the runway at Goa International Airport during takeoff and burst into flames on Wednesday. The ‘under-trainee’ pilot escaped critical injuries, said naval sources.

 The incident occurred during a routine training sortie just before commercial flights could resume at INS Hansa, the naval base in which the civilian airport operates, said Navy officials.
 
 The   prompted the Navy and Airports Authority of India to close down the runway for an hour for safety purposes. The Navy and ministry of defence have instituted a board of inquiry to investigate the incident.
 
 “The incident occurred at 12:10pm. The MiG 29K developed a technical snag during takeoff and the pilot aborted the takeoff,” a spokesperson for the Navy said. “The area has been cordoned off and critical parts of the aircraft have been taken out for investigation,” he said.
 
 Due to high speed, the aircraft could not stop at the end of the runway and it veered off the runway and ploughed through the open space. In the process, the front landing gear suffered great stress and the   came to a stop on its nose.
 
 “The undercarriage has of course taken damage. The nose wheel has sustained damage, too,” a naval officer, who was on site, said.
 
 Crash tenders and emergency services reached the site and doused the fire. Sources said due to the presence of dry grass and strong winds, firefighters found it difficult to battle the blaze. “Fire on MiG29K has been extinguished completely and the aircraft was rendered safe after removal of fuel onboard,” the naval spokesperson said.
 
 A report by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) had raised concerns over the MiG 29K’s operational deficiencies due to defects in engines, airframes and fly-by-wire systems.
 
 The MiG 29K was part of the White Tigers squadron based at INS Hansa.
 
 The Navy operates the multi-role MiG 29Ks from its aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya as well as from INS Hansa. The Navy had placed an order for 45 units of the carrier-based aircraft in 2004 to serve as the air wing of INS Vikramaditya.
 
 The incident led to disruption of commercial flight operations at the Goa International Airport. Sources said one flight was cancelled and four flights were diverted in the afternoon, when Goa International Airport flight operations are usually at its peak.
 
 At least 14 arrivals and 15 departures were delayed by as much as three hours, leaving several passengers fuming. Some passengers with international tickets missed their connecting flights.
 
 Airport Director B C H Negi said the runway was opened quickly and that flight operations resumed after an hour.
 
 After Delhi fog that disrupted flights in Goa, this has been the second instance in the New Year when Goa International Airport has seen flight delays, leaving tourists and out-bound passengers frustrated.
 
 
