   said he is approaching his first full term as president of   Association of India ( ) with new zeal and vigour.
 
  Sarma was elected unopposed as BAI president for a four-year term during the annual general body meeting and elections in Calangute on Tuesday. His first decision was to extend P Gopichand’s tenure as chief national coach for the next four years and allow Sanjay Mishra to continue as the junior national coach till 2022.  , credited with shaping a generation of Indian badminton stars, has been national coach since 2006.
  
  “Badminton has entered an important and interesting phase. We want to help our players in whatever way possible. We want to help the state associations and want to set up academies. We will now convene an executive committee meeting and come up with a vision document for the next four years,” said Sarma.
  
  Along with Sarma, 41 others were also elected unopposed to the executive committee while the only ‘contest’ for the general secretary’s post turned out to be farcical after KK Sharma of Rajasthan opted out of the race and allowed Ajay Kumar Singhania from Haryana a free run.
  
  The electoral process was already set in motion, and since Sharma had not withdrawn on time, elections were forced to be held. Singhania picked up 58 of the 59 votes that were cast while one was declared invalid by returning officer Dr. Justice Aftab Hussain Saikia, former Chief Justice of the High Courts of Sikkim and Jammu & Kashmir.
  
  Sarma, who took over as interim president last year following the demise of Akhilesh Das Gupta, has got what he wanted as his picks are now holding important positions. Apart from Singhania as secretary, BAI now has a new treasurer as Ashok Bajaj vacated his chair for former union minister Anbumani Ramadoss (Tamil Nadu) after 28 years at the BAI.
  
  “Last term, I was constrained since my tenure was only for nine months, Now, we have a new mandate, so everyone will work with new zeal and vigour. We will do many new things,” Sarma told TOI after being elected unopposed.
  
  Sarma’s first big announcement after election was to tell all state associations not to take any instructions from any of his aides, however close they may be. “If I have to say something, I will communicate personally,” he told the members, many of whom were ‘guided’ by associates in the past.
  
  Sarma has also appointed officials for specific tasks like dealing with Sports Authority of India (SAI), sponsors, tournaments and even with players to avoid conflicting messages.
  
  The BAI has also decided to do away with its controversial Wild Card system that allows players with lower rankings to participate at the National championships.
  
  “There will be no wild cards. There will be a committee who will decide if a player deserves to be allowed but that decision needs to be in consultation with the chief coach. We won’t even call that wild card entry. We will use some other term,” said Sarma, who has promised an annual assistance of Rs 5 lakh to every state association.
