Surat: Navsari MP C R Paatil has asked Surat district administration to take prompt action in ensuring that obstacles in the flight path of aircraft heading to and leaving the city airport are removed at the earliest. 

 Paatil raised the issue during the coordination meeting held at the district collector’s office on Saturday and demanded demolition of illegal structures to pave way for an international airport in the Diamond City. High-rise buildings have been obstructing landing of aircraft on the runway of Surat airport for a long time now. 
 
 The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has been struggling to remove them. Official sources said 16 high-rise buildings obstruct the landing path at the airport. While 15 high-rise buildings are on the flight path from runway-22 on Vesu and Athwalines side, one building is on the flight path that leads from runway-4 at Dumas. Paatil demanded an inquiry into the issue and urged the authorities to check the credentials and original building plans of the builders. 
 
 Interestingly, civic authorities claimed that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had given NoCs to realtors many years ago when development of the airport was at a nascent stage. The realtors claim that they had constructed buildings only after DGCA’s approval. Last year, after its March 2017 survey, the AAI authorities had written to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) demanding removal of the obstacles identified in the approach chart.
 
 A list of around 92 obstacles including trees, electric light poles and buildings penetrating the obstacle limitation surface of runway-4 and runway-22 was provided to the civic body.
 
 The letter further stated that no procedure was established by the concerned authority to carry out regular inspections of areas around the airport to ensure that no construction activity and natural growth of trees come up to infringe upon the obstacle limitation surface (OLS) rule for the runway. AAI had requested that a team be formed comprising of SMC officers, SUDAand revenue department to conduct regular inspections of the surrounding areas of airport. 
 
 
