PATNA: Nineteen MBBS students of now defunct   and Hospital in Saharsa, who were transferred to six different government   across the state on the Patna high court’s order last year, are running from pillar to post to fill in forms for appearing in the second year examination of MBBS scheduled from June 1.

 Some of these students said May 19 is the last date to fill in forms with late fine, but neither the college nor the health department officials were helping them out. “Some officials told us that we don’t have required attendance but they are not ready to understand that we were transferred on HC order as special case,” one of the students said.
 
 The college became defunct in December 2016 after the state government withdrew its ‘essentiality certificate’ as it failed to meet the necessary standards set by   (MCI). A batch of 100 students senior to these 19 were shifted to different government medical colleges for further studies on the HC order on October 6, 2016. Later, these 19 students also moved the HC which ordered on June 28, 2017 to shift them to other medical colleges in the state. They were admitted in PMCH (4), NMCH (3), SKMCH (3), DMCH (3), JLNMCH (3) and ANMMCH (3).
 
 “We had already lost a year due to all these problems. Though belonging to 2014-2019 academic batch, we were shifted in 2015-2020 batch. While in Saharsa, we were even allowed for second year’s sent-up exams before the college got shut,” they said.
 
 “Our seniors had also faced similar problems in their final year, but health minister   intervened and they were allowed to write final year examination in March this year under special case,” they said.
 
 When asked, principal secretary (health)   said the students at least need to show they had attended classes for 18 months. “The aggrieved students met me, but were unable to produce any attendance related documents from older college. In such case, the MCI guidelines can’t be violated,” he said.
 
 Health minister Pandey, when contacted, said he did not know any such issue. “If the students approach me, I will definitely help them after looking into the matter. I know about their seniors’ case,” Pandey told TOI over phone on Wednesday.
 
 
