KOLKATA: Nearly five months after release from prison, Justice (retd) C S   announced the launch of his political party here on Wednesday. 

 Karnan said he would seek registration of ‘Anti-Corruption Dynamic Party’ soon. The party plans to field women in all 543 Lok Sabha constituencies in 2019.
 
 “The party has been launched with me as founder president. Only women will contest, and we hope to sweep elections across the country. I was asked to be the only male candidate and contest from Varanasi. However, I feel even Varanasi should be contested by a woman. The decision to field women was taken as we feel they have been discriminated against severely. I have no plan to associate with the judiciary any longer,” he said after addressing a convention on discrimination against Dalits and minorities and illegal detention of social activists.
 
 If his party comes to power, Karnan plans to have a new PM every year. “We will have a Muslim woman as PM in 2019-20. The next year, it will be a woman from upper castes. In 1921-22, the position will be occupied by a woman from the backward classes and the next year, somebody from a denotified community,” he said.
 
 Reacting to the two agendas of the convention, Karnan said: “The atrocities perpetrated against minorities stand out as the most demeaning in the eyes of the international community, though we boast of being the largest democracy...Our adopted father, Dr B R Ambedkar, tried to protect such underprivileged people by incorporating Article 30 in the Constitution. Even then, upper castes have violated the rights of minorities and Dalits. This is against the moral and ethical constitutional structure of India.”
 
 The second agenda is the immediate release of people such as Dalit leader   in UP and Chhatradhar Mahato of PCPA in Bengal. Karnan said: “The first principle of law says a criminal may go unpunished, but the innocent should not be punished under any circumstances...It is my request to the judiciary and the government to release the innocents who are suffering in judicial custody to protect their social status.”
 
 Karnan, formerly of  , was sentenced to six months’ jail for contempt by   after accusing senior judges of corruption. This was his first public statement after his release.
 
 
