SHIMLA: Coming under fire over the murder of Kasauli’s assistant town and country planner during a demolition drive being carried out on the directions of the Supreme Court, Himachal Pradesh chief minister   admitted that laxity on the part of the police led to the gruesome incident.

 Shail Bala, the officer, was killed on May 1 after hotel owner   had opened fire during the drive.
 
 Interacting with media persons in Shimla on Friday, the chief minister said the incident raises a big question mark on law and order situation, but claimed that similar incidents would not be allowed to happen again.
 
 He said when the incident took place, the police did not reach the spot swiftly as it should have done. He said required precautionary measures were not taken and licensed weapons were not deposited before the demolition drive.
 
 He said two station house officers who were deployed on the spot on Tuesday have been sent to police lines while the Solan SP has been transferred.
 
 Thakur said norms would be set for the removal of encroachments and unauthorized constructions and heavy security would be provided for the compliance of court orders.
 
 He said the government would take further action in this matter after receiving a report from the divisional commissioner, Shimla.
 
 Meanwhile, perturbed over the killing of Kasauli officer, Himachal Pradesh governor Acharya Devvrat summoned DGP S R Mardi on Friday.
 
 The governor made it clear to the DGP that such incidents should not happen again in the state and maintenance of law and order is the responsibility of police department and latter should ensure the same.
 
 On Thursday, a   delegation had submitted a memorandum to him on the deteriorating law and order, besides rise in crime cases against women in the state.
 
 Sources said during a two-hour meeting with the DGP, the governor asked him to explain how the incident took place when policemen were deployed with the team executing the SC orders.
 
 There were allegations against cops that when Vijay Singh had opened fire at Shail Bala, policemen deployed with the team involved in removing unauthorized constructions had themselves run for cover.
 
 Police officials, however, on their part had claimed that police party was deployed in an adjacent building where there was an apprehension of law and order problem whereas the officer went to the building of the accused where he fired gunshots and fled the scene.
 
 The accused was later arrested from Mathura on Thursday.
 
 Murder weapon recovered
 
 On Friday, additional chief judicial magistrate, Kasauli, sent accused Vijay Singh to five-day police remand. During his interrogation, the accused hotel owner disclosed the place where he had hidden the weapon used in the murder. Police have recovered the same.
 
 
