When 18-year old Swati* was informed by her friends about her explicit photographs doing rounds on  , she was left speechless. These were the photographs she had sent to her boyfriend.

 “Without my knowledge, he showed those photos to students from another school. The boys then contacted me and sought sexual favours. My friends started asking me about it,” said Swati, who goes to a reputed city school.
 
 As 
  and nasty cyberbullying spread among teenagers, school campuses are grappling with threats and depression.
 
  
  
 Rohan, 17, told TOI that he circulated explicit pictures of his ex-girlfriend to avenge ‘humiliation’. “She had posted edited screenshots of our conversation on Snapchat and made it look like I was the only one who had asked her for such photos when in reality it was mutual,” he said. After the incident became public, Rohan’s friends deserted him. His parents were alerted by the school principal and the matter was hushed up.
 
 Schools in the city, where such incidents have taken place, said students seldom report such cases as they are scared that the issue would snowball out of hand.
 
  
  
 
 Students said when such photographs are leaked, they go viral in the school and in friend circles. The victims are harassed by other students, bullied online and shamed. Sometimes it is hard for a student to continue school as stories become saucier and the rumours murkier. “It is very hard to find parents who would understand the situation. Their first response is to blame us for sending such explicit photographs in the first place,” said  , adding that she was scared of going to school after her photos went public.
 
 City-based psychologist Dr   said teenagers know the dangers of sexting. “But they do it for attention. When they see friends engaging in similar activities, they feel that their self-esteem is at stake if they don’t do the same,” she said.
 
 “Often, girls are emotionally blackmailed by boyfriends and they comply due to the fear of being left out from a social circle just because they don’t have a boyfriend,” she said.
 
 Dr   said parents must be friendly with their children and give them confidence if such cases happen. “Children falling victims of revenge porn should inform parents as soon as possible. Instead of chiding them, parents should take them to a psychologist for counseling if the need arises,” she said.
 
 
 
 
