 The Goa   Association’s extraordinary general body meeting (EGM) started and ended on expected lines. The constitutional amendments which were meant to be done were completed without much of a fuss at Casa do Povo in Goa Velha on Sunday but president   let slip a secret.
 
  “You all can convene another meeting and discuss this further. Let’s not push it now,” Gomes said while members were arguing about the merits of going back to the old system of voting during   elections when the entire state voted for its representatives, rather than the two districts separately.
  
  The GFA’s constitution now states that elections for members and vice-president will be held along the North/South basis. While North will choose their own representatives, the dominating South can handpick their own men to represent them in the GFA executive committee.
  
  Some felt this was creating a big divide between the north and south. But while there was logic in what some members said, vociferously, it were the words of the president that remained the talk of the evening.
  
  In not pushing for an all-Goa vote – which he clearly seemed to be in favour of – and asking members to “convene another meeting” Gomes made it clear that he wouldn’t be around when elections are next held in July.
  
  One man who has made his interest clear in contesting for the post of GFA president is Churchill Alemao, and the patron of Churchill Brothers SC was in attendance on Sunday. His presence did raise eyebrows, and when executive committee member Andrew Rodrigues rose to speak – as he always does – and said the clubs should elect Alemao, Gomes had to intervene.
  
  “This is not an election meeting. Let’s stick to the agenda,” he told Rodrigues, leaving him with no choice but to cut his speech short.
  
  The GFA Annual Awards that followed saw club representatives collect their prizes for all their achievements all through the season. The proudest moment, though, was reserved for Sporting Clube de Goa who walked up on stage to collect the massive trophy after being crowned Goa Pro League champions. Sporting Clube had finished runners-up last season but turned the tables this season after remaining unbeaten in their campaign.
  
  Captain Victorino Fernandes was the proudest when he held aloft the trophy and posed for separate pictures. In this time of social media domination, nobody wants to be left behind. Coach Mateus Costa and technical director Peter Valles were surprised at the weight of the trophy, while midfielder Glan Martins and club secretary Victor Fernandes also enjoyed their moments with the trophy.
  
  “Administratively, we have made major amendments to the constitution. We have made amendments that will now make it easier for corporates to provide sponsors. The awards which were pending for many years have also been cleared. This was truly extraordinary,” said Gomes.
