KOLKATA: Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur (IITKgp) will join hands with   (AIIMS) to set up the coveted Dr B C Roy Institute of Medical Science & Research — the first medical hospital in an IIT, with an aim to offer medical courses in future.

 The hospital will start operations by 2018 end. The superspecialty hospital will offer consultation in orthopedic, cardiology and neuroscience.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS Delhi, Diptendra Mitra, head of immunology
 
 at AIIMS and IIT Kharagpur alumnus met IIT Kharagpur director  , and researchers in the area of medical technology on Tuesday.
 
 Both the institutes plan to strengthen ongoing activities through collaborative education programs and research as well as collaboration for management and analysis of hospital data.
 
 “Both institutions have unique strengths and through this collaboration we hope to explore and exchange them. IIT Kharagpur has expertise in developing medical devices and diagnostics, medical imaging and analysis, systems modelling, big data analysis and machine learning. These can be put to use in medical science to improve on experience-driven procedures to technology-centric medical services,” said  , faculty coordinator of the initiative and the head of school of medical science and technology at IIT Kharagpur.
 
 Guleria added: “Medical domain is becoming progressively technology-intensive, which clearly puts the matter of IIT Kharagpur providing medical and allied education in perspective. Ingenious engineering can provide technologies for affordable healthcare befitting to the Indian scenario.
 
 Modelling, simulation, and analytics will be essential tools for medical intervention in the years to come.”
 
 Dr B C Roy Institute of Medical Science & Research will open with a provision for 400 beds and will be a research-hospital spanning over 42 acres. The hospital will be administered by a registered society with its governing body headed by director, IIT Kharagpur. The phase I of the project will cost about Rs 400 crore.
 
 It is expected that within 2021 IIT-Kgp will apply to the   (MCI) to start admission of students, offering MBBS degree.
 
 “IIT Kharagpur and AIIMS are planning some unique joint initiatives in academics and research, which will open new directions in education and take technology-enabled healthcare directly to the people at large,” said director PP Chakrabarti.
 
