Trichy: In a rare find, Asian spotted swallow tail moth species was found by environmentalist in Trichy which was previously sighted at the foothills of Pachamalai forest habitat in the district in December 2015. The presence of such rare moth species in city limits for the first time in recent years was cited by the environmentalists as a good indicator of environmental health as the moth species play a crucial role in balancing food chain apart from serving as able pollinators for the flowering plants. “It is quite surprising to spot such moth species in a noisy environment like Trichy city. These species mostly prefer natural and calm habitat like forests. The sighting of Asian spotted swallow tail moth species after years will be helpful in research activities and to study moths,” Q Ashoka Chakkaravarthy, wildlife biologist, who spotted the rare moth, told TOI.  The peculiar moth spotted in Trichy at Salai road locality was said to be a fondly preferred feed for the birds. Nocturnal insectivores often feed on such kind of moths that include bats and a few species of owls.  Asian spotted swallow tail moth is distributed across India, Sri Lanka and China and would have a maximum life span of 15 days. According to the biologists, the adult moths of Asian spotted swallow tail moth have pale brown wings with two faint darker sub marginal bands. Each fore wing has a hooked tip while each hind wing spot a short tail with a black spot thus bearing the 'spotted' tag in its name. Generally with majority of moths being nocturnal (night time flyer), Asian spotted swallow tail moth is said to be a diurnal moth (day flying moth).  “We have been studying moths in Trichy since 2013 but the sighting of Asian spotted swallow tail moth was first since then. Such spotting is crucial in data collection as biologists suffer to do research in the absence of ecological data on moths,” Chakkaravarthy added.  Though plenty of research is being done about the macro species, for micro species like moths that play equally important role in food cycle and pollination of plants, biologists lamented that equal emphasize was not given.  As moths and butterflies contribute for the 90% of pollination in flowering plants, dedicated research for the micro species were pressed by the biologist who spotted the species for first time within Trichy.