MUMBAI:   applications seeking compensation for losses due to   have touched close to 13 lakh and still many more are trickling in. The   will now have to rush to cross-check the claims before cotton is cleared from the fields and so far only 5 lakh applications have been verified.

 This is a catch-22 situation for the department as well as farmers. In order to prevent pest attack next year, farmers have been advised to clear the fields early. This will help in cutting down the life cycle of the bollworm, which leaves its eggs to breed in the cotton plants. However, to calculate the farmers’ losses, cotton has to remain in the fields till each holding is physically surveyed by the department’s teams to prepare a report.
 
 According to the department’s directives, the fields should have been cleared by December or January end. The teams will now have to rush and finish the job within February itself as the cotton crop may be finally cleared in large areas by next month, said a source in the agriculture department.
 
 TOI on Thursday had reported that the state government had constituted a SIT to probe the illegal sale of HT cotton seeds and the probe will also cover US biotech giant Monsanto’s Indian subsidiaries, among other domestic seed companies. TOI had said that an official from the state government had said that they had found prima facie evidence against the company when they raided their godowns. However Monsanto has denied any such action against them as they neither own godowns nor manufacture any seeds. “We are unaware of any such actions being taken against us,” said their spokesperson.
 
 The company also said that they were encouraged by the formation of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) in Maharashtra to comprehensively investigate and curb the proliferation of illegal herbicide tolerant cotton seeds. "In December 2017, we had written to the Government of Maharashtra requesting action in curbing production and sale of illegal herbicide tolerant seeds and had offered our unstinted cooperation to support any such actions taken by the government. " said their spokesperson.
 
 After a major pest attack, the state government came up with a relief package which included compensation routed through a penalty extracted from seed companies. “There is already a provision in Maharashtra Cotton Seed Act for routing a compensation through a seed company in case of losses. So far, the department has only handled sporadic cases. For the first time, complaints are being handled at such a mass scale,” said a source in the department. Even if compensation is imposed by the government, seed companies can move court against the order. This indicates getting farmers their money will remain a long-drawn affair, say sources.
 
 The process calls for cross-verification of each complaint in two stages before a final call is taken by the director, quality control (seeds). So far, the first stage has only reached half way and eight lakh cases are still pending.
 
 A farmer’s complaint is taken in the ‘G’ form, after which an inspector physically surveys the field and fills up ‘H’ form. After that, a survey is done by a district-level committee which fills up ‘I’ form. Finally, the director orders compensation after hearing the seed company as well.
 
 “Out of nearly 13 lakh ‘G’ forms filed, only 5 lakh ‘H’ forms are ready till now. As the  , the agriculture department staff will have to rush to finish the job. For a survey to be done, the cotton crop has to be on the fields,” said an official.
 
 Earlier, an internal deadline of January 31 was fixed which could not be met. Considering the scale, it is being planned to take sample surveys for the next step. The work would be further delayed if the ‘I’ form surveys on each field is done, said a source.
 
 Rather it is now being planned to go for sample surveys in a block. So if losses are in found in a particular brand of seeds in a given area, then the company will be sent notices for the entire stretch. This will help in reducing the time lag, the source said.
 
