Pimpri Chinchwad: The civic body has invited social groups to contribute to this year’s environment status report to be submitted on July 31 by giving suggestions.

 The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC)’s environment department chief, Sanjay Kulkarni, said, “The municipal corporation has started preparing the report as per the guidelines of the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board. All civic departments have been asked to submit the details of the status report.”
 
 He said, “Citizens, environment activists, non-government organizations, education institutes and social organizations have been asked to give details of innovative environment schemes, measures for plastic ban and the tree conservation project,” Kulkarni said. 
 
 The suggestions should be submitted via e-mail to esr@pcmcindia.gov.in. They should be of around 500 words and submitted before May 10.
 
 The environment department has asked social, senior citizens and self-help groups, environmentalists, mohalla committees, non-government organizations and citizens to give their suggestions on plastic ban, creating environment awareness and eco-friendly items. 
 
 The 2016-17 report revealed the rise in air, water and sound pollution. Increasing urbanization, growth of industries and change in people’s lifestyles were the main factors in last July’s environmental status report. The Indrayani and Pavana rivers are being polluted by the untreated industrial and domestic effluents being realsed from canals, and garbage and ash from crematoriums. 
 
 The municipal corporation is preparing a detailed project report for the development and rejuvenation of the rivers. “An action plan has to be prepared for the Common Effluent Treatment Plant of the small-scale and medium industries. A three-acre plot has been identified in the Bhosari industrial area’s T block,” a senior civic official said. 
 
 The environment engineering department has given Rs10 lakh for green buildings in municipal limits. The municipal corporation received funds from the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy. The PCMC is also going to appoint a corporate social responsibility consultant for a six-month period on remuneration basis.
 
 
