The second and final day of Blenders Pride Magical Nights Music CDs presents   had a lot of exciting haute couture on display on the ramp, with many stars, too!

 
 
 In his latest collection, titled The Moody Blues, ace designer Ramesh Dembla took on the coolest colour of the rainbow and gave it a hot spin. Blue is the base colour of the collection, which has an all-inclusive line of Indo-Western formals, ranging from dresses and gowns to lehengas and anarkalis. The collection is for the hip fashionista whose choice is to follow the trend, yet stand out. Sheers, layers and embellishments add panache to the collection.
 
 Blenders Pride Magical Nights Music CDs presents Archana Kocchar 
 A mix of contemporary silhouettes, Archana Kochhar’s collection, Summerbrides, shone the spotlight on bridal couture. Right from lehengas to brocade, anarkalis and saris, it draws inspiration from lavish Indian weddings, all the while celebrating the Indian bride. In hues of grey, lilac, orange, pink, red with a hint of gold, this collection has choices for both men and women who want their wedding to be grand and festal.
 
 Rini Couture
 Designer   launched her collection, Kaleidoscope, which is an amalgamation of day and evening wear, which, according to her, can be worn by everyone. The collection is inspired by psychedelic patterns and colours, resplendent with dresses, jackets, trousers and evening gowns for both men and women, in fabrics like georgette, linen, silk and stretch materials, and colours such as silver, red, maroon and more.
 
 Chola
 The collection from Chola by Shammy and   predominantly consists of traditional wear, with several sherwanis and anarkalis. Although it has wide appeal, the designer duo stuck to grassroots and traditions, and drew inspiration from the rich heritage of India. This collection — which is especially inspired by Rajasthan and Rajput kings — was about innovative silhouettes, with creative mixes of colours and a beautiful choice of fabrics, finished with intricate surface ornamentation.
 
 Fulki
 The collection of Fulki by Monali and   is all about ostentatious extravaganza. The collection primarily works with silk, bringing out rich colours, straight lines silhouettes, and is mesmerising, with the beauty of Banarasi flavour. The bridal wear collection includes hot off-the-shoulder numbers, lavished with ruffles and lace, luxurious silk and brocades, provocative prudish lengths, spectacular curves and stylistic mélange. Today’s bride is an anatomy of pride and confidence, and this collection brings out just that.
 
 
 Synonymous with and royal collections, designer Ashok Maanay launched his collection Adonis, which is all about comfortable and stylish apparel for men. Soft tones displayed in dusty rose jackets, blazers and textured pants, the collection makes one look like royalty, making looking good an easy option for men. However, the surprise element of the show was the women’s Awadhi collection that was complete with vibrant hues.
 
