CHANDIGARH: A year after a major fire engulfed a portion of the first floor of Dewan Anand Kumar Hall, the administrative block of the Panjab University, and many important records of the university were turned to ashes, TOI looks at some of the key buildings at the university to assess their fire-preparedness.

 While the fire extinguishers installed at the ground, first and second floors of the administrative block have been refilled, some of those on the third and fourth floor are expired. On the top floor of the administrative block, the fire extinguisher outside the examination branch I and III are also expired.
 
 
  
 
 Interestingly, Arts Block-I, the three-storied building which houses departments of Punjabi, Sanskrit, English and cultural studies, has only one fire extinguisher, which was scheduled to be refilled on September 18, 2017, but has not been yet. The only fire extinguisher for the entire building is already past its due date. The libraries, which are a treasure trove of Punjabi, English and Sanskrit literature, have not been equipped with any active fire protection devices.
 
 
  
 
 The Arts Block-II is doing worse in the matter as it does not have even a single fire extinguisher. The departments of physics and chemistry have refilled fire extinguishers and their due date is in 2019. The fire extinguishers at the   have also been refilled.
 
 
 
 It was exactly one year ago on May 17 that a fact-finding committee chaired by Justice JS Narang, former judge, Punjab and Haryana high court and comprising other members — CFSL founder director Dr R S Verma and professor  , former registrar, Punjab University — was formed. The committee which had submitted its interim report, is yet to submit its final report on the fire incident. The committee had to come up with recommendations in the final report. “The final report is yet to come since the committee had sought an extension for the same,” said Renuka Salwan, Panjab University spokesperson.
 
 
 
 The interim report stated that 70% of the lost data was reconstructed by September 2017 (when the report was submitted) and the record was retrievable to the extent of 85% or more. The 44-page document also suggested that no employee or outsider was involved in starting the fire. It further mentioned that on September 4, the committee had called finance and development officer (FDO) Vikram Nayyar to find out how much of the accounts branch data had been retrieved.
 
 As per the university’s version, the transactional data has been completely retrieved. However, as far as the service books are concerned, out of the 568 service books received for preparing the duplicates, 466 have been already readied while 102 are yet to be worked on.
 
 
 
 The   (CFSL) report stated that over-drawing of electric current by an appliance resulted into short-circuit and caused the fire on the intervening night of May 13 and 14, 2017. The report tabled in the senate meeting on September 24, 2017 said the closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed around the administrative block were not working at the time of the fire incident (since May 10). Pointing out the flaws, the 11-page report stated that the action-time delay, non-functioning of the fire alarm system, lack of proper guarding at night and lack of preparedness to manage such disasters were also apparent and needed to be taken care of.
 
 
 
