CHANDIGARH:   police had challaned more than 6,000 motorist for mixing driving with drinking in the city in 2017. This was the highest count of challans issued for drink driving in the city so far. The city has also recorded 107 casualties due to road accidents the same year, which is the lowest in last five years.

 Traffic cops boasted that their strictness towards restricting such illegal activities has worked well as the casualties rate too has come down.
 
 Data shows that traffic police challaned 6,663   last year, whereas they had challaned 4,667 drunk drivers in 2016. 4,052 people were issued challans for driving after consuming liquor from different parts of city in 2015, while the traffic cops found 4,903 and 4,789 drunk drivers behind the wheels in 2014 and 2013 respectively.
 
 Since, the joining of   as SSP UT (traffic) in July 2017, police have increased the number of hours, spots and days of setting anti-drunken nakas in city.
 
 DSP (traffic)   said the main reason behind the fatal accidents during night hours is the trend of mixing driving with drinking. Traffic police have increased the numbers of spots of anti-drunken nakas in the city. With this, police have been able to reduce the number of fatal late-night accidents in the city, he said. Now, people think twice before driving on roads after consuming liquor, which has hence helped to bring down the frequency of accidents, he added.
 
 Police generally set up nakas near the discotheques, pubs, hotels and restaurants to catch the drunk drivers.
 
 On the New Year Eve, traffic police caught 203 drunk drivers, which was the highest issuance of challans to drunk drivers in a day in the city. Now, police have also started suspending licences of the drivers who are caught drunk while driving.
 
 What are the punishments?
 
 As per Motor Vehicles Act, a drunk driver can be sentenced to six-month jail or charged Rs 2,000 as fine or both for their first offence. There is also a provision of two-year jail or a fine of Rs 3000 or both for subsequent offence within three years of the previous offence. In city, the local court has awarded maximum sentence till the rising of the court and now, police have also been started suspending licences of the violators, as per the recommendations of the apex court’s road safety committee.
 
 
