LUCKNOW: Shocked by losses on the seats vacated by the chief minister and deputy chief minister,   in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday made a cautious assessment of realignment of SP and BSP while saying that bypolls were an incomplete representation of the mandate as compared to the general elections. 

 Both CM Yogi Adityanath and deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad   also described over-confidence of workers in delivering the message of more than Rs 5,000-crore worth development works including that on civil airports, Kumbh 2019 and six-lane highways after a landslide win in 2017 polls.
 
 Speaking to TOI after the results, Maurya said that people in both   and   had surprisingly preferred the caste-based alliance instead of development.
 
 "We underestimated that BSP votes will be transferred sweepingly to the SP as their announcement had come just at the eleventh hour. The results show that people may have missed out on our development projects but instead focused at the caste alliance," said Maurya.
 
 The former Phulpur MP also said that the party's large voterbase did not come out to vote.
 
 While 47% of the voters exercised their franchise in Gorakhpur, where UP chief minister cast his ballot, the turnout in Phulpur was lower at 38%.
 
 BJP leaders in UP, though, felt that Prime minister Narendra  's absence in the bypolls might have had an impact on the results but maintained that 2019 general elections in both UP and India will still be a referendum on the Gujarat strongman.
 
 "As has been the case, neither the Prime Minister nor our party president Amit Shah campaign during bypolls. So of course, their presence was missed by us. But then we had won the assembly bypoll in December. Having said that, I still believe that 2019 LS polls will be a referendum on both Modi and development," said Maurya.
 
 The BJP sidestepped the criticism that its focus on Congress-mukt Bharat was at the same time refuelling hopes in regional parties or their satraps who remain a formidable challenge and potent players in state and general elections.
 
 
