HYDERABAD: Four days after the charred body of 28-year old housewife Soumya was found at her flat at  , police on Saturday arrested her paramour, Prattipati Prakash, and revealed that she was murdered for her gold ornaments.

 Prakash, 28, a native of Anantapur district in  , was Soumya’s husband Nagabhushanam’s acquaintance, police said.
 
 Around 8.30pm on April 2, Nagabhushanam, an engineer with L&T Metro, left for work. A little later, Prakash landed at Soumya’s flat. He left his two mobile phones at his friend’s room to fox police.
 
 After spending some time with her, he asked her to give her gold ornaments to tide over his financial problems. She, however, refused to give him the jewellery, citing similar problems. Soon, they got into a heated argument.
 
 When Prakash realised he would get nothing, he took a rod and hit Soumya on her head. After she fell unconscious, he slit her throat with a shaving blade and stole her gold ornaments.
 
 According to police, Prakash then poured sesame oil on her body, covered it with other clothes and set it afire. Before escaping, he put her phone in the toilet flush tank. With an intention to wipe out evidence, he switched on the gas knob even after being aware that Soumya’s 18-month-old son was sleeping in another bedroom.
 
 Next day, he pledged the stolen gold ornaments at Muthoot Mini, Hydernagar branch, with the help of his friend.
 
 Earlier, Nagabhushanam met Prakash, also an engineer, while he was working in Dichpally. In 2010, the two shifted to Assam. Nagabhushanam married Soumya four years ago while he was working in Assam. Prakash developed intimacy with Soumya.
 
 The two engineers moved to Hyderabad and joined L&T Metro in 2016. Prakash resigned from his job citing ill-health. To get rid of his financial problems, Prakash planned to extract money from Soumya by taking advantage of their relationship.
 
 Police also found Prakash was involved in an attempt to commit theft case registered in Anantapur in 2007.
 
 
