BENGALURU : More than politicians, the model code of conduct seems to be unnerving the general public. This is if one goes by requests made to election authorities seeking permission to hold social gatherings and private events such as weddings and birthday parties.

 “Many individuals and nonpolitical organisations are approaching us seeking permission to conduct private events. We have received applications seeking permission to conduct marriages, birthdays and other ceremonies. It has been clarified to the public, district election officers and model-code-of-conduct enforcement officers that private programmes do not require any prior permission from any election officer,” chief electoral officer (CEO) Sanjiv Kumar said on Tuesday.
 
 
 The CEO, however, said that the enforcement authorities would keep an eye on events to see if they are being funded by political parties or candidates.
 
 Kumar also clarified that people aren’t allowed to carry more than Rs 50,000 in cash or new articles and gift items worth above Rs 10,000 without valid documents while travelling.
 
 “Unexplained cash above Rs 50,000 will be seized. It will be released only after it’s proven that it has nothing to do with elections,” he said, adding if the seized amount is above Rs 10 lakh, then it’d be referred to the income tax department. For amounts lesser, the matter will be referred to the committee headed by the chief executive officer of zilla panchayat.
 
 On minister A Manju’s complaint against Hassan district deputy commissioner Rohini Sindhuri Dasari, that she is levelling false charges of poll code violation against him, Kumar said an inquiry into the matter is on and the election commission was waiting for the report. He also said that safety of women officials will be taken care of during the election time.
 
 On JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda’s allegation that money is being transported in police vehicles, the CEO said director general of police Neelamani N Raju has clarified that no such incidents was reported.
 
 Referring to BJP’s complaint that entry to temples was restricted in Udupi, Kumar said election officials never entered temples, but only removed party flags displayed on streets.
 
 On a complaint that BJP state president B S Yedyurappa’s helicopter was stopped, the CEO said an inquiry was under way.
 
 Replying to a query over Amit Shah allegedly violating the code of conduct by offering Rs 5 lakh to the family of slain RSS worker Raju in Mysuru, Kumar said Raju’s family members have denied taking the money.
 
 The CEO said returning officers for all 224 assembly constituencies are being trained and an advanced version of electronic voting machine (M3) will be used in about 15 constituencies on a pilot basis.
 
