NEW DELHI: With the entire   becoming operational in the coming week,   in the line is Delhi Metro’s  , which is set to   in  .

 The extension of the Green Line (Inderlok-Mundka) to Bahadurgarh would be Delhi Metro’s third foray into Haryana after Gurugram and Faridabad. There are total seven stations on the more-than-11km stretch, out of which four are in Delhi — Mundka Industrial Area (MIE), Ghevra, Tikri Kalan and Tikri Border — and three are in Haryana — Modern Industrial Estate, Bus Stand and City Park. The metro corridor will run along NH-10 (Rohtak Road) on an elevated viaduct.
 
  
  
 
 The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) had started trials on this section in December last year and the viaduct is now ready, except for a crucial link to the train depot constructed to cater to this section. The Commissioner for Metro Rail Safety (CMRS) will inspect the section on May 30. The corporation will open the section to public after the safety audit and go-ahead from the CMRS.
 
 According to sources, the section is ready to be opened as soon as the go-ahead from CMRS is received but the final date will be decided only after the availability of dignitaries who will launch the section is confirmed. “Since the section extends up to Haryana, we are planning to invite Haryana chief minister   as our chief guest too,” a DMRC official said.
 
 In the beginning, however, the frequency of trains on this section will be of 25 minutes, which is a long gap considering that the usual frequency of trains on other metro corridor ranges from two to five minutes. The reason behind this is a missing link between the corridor and its train depot. DMRC has been unable to build a track connecting the two due to unavailability of land. With no space to park the extra trains needed for providing a normal frequency, Metro will provide limited services on the section.
 
 “We will have truncated services because we can’t hold the number of trains in the existing depot,” DMRC managing director Mangu Singh had earlier told TOI.
 
 Singh had said that DMRC had initially planned trains every six minutes on the corridor, but only if the connectivity with the depot was in place. 
 
 
