
NEW DELHI: A joint team of military intelligence and   crime branch is investigating the source of military stickers found on the car of suspended civilian   (MES) officer   (54), who was arrested on Tuesday for a spate of burglaries in Delhi Cantonment. MES is tasked with civil construction works for the defence forces but many of its employees and contractors are civilians, . 
 
 The rogue officer was arrested along with two others after being intercepted near Dwarka Sector 1 in a white Hyundai i10 bearing a Haryana numberplate. The criminals were taking stolen valuables in the car to their hideout.
 
 Investigating officers said that the car belongs to Dharambir and has an “advocate” sticker and another of a military unit on the windshield. The accused told police that he used these stickers to avoid suspicion and to pass through checkpoints in the cantonment. It is also being probed if any other personnel are a part of the gang and helped him procure the stickers.
 
 A native of Jhajjar, Dharambir was commissioned into MES in 1988 as a fitter general mechanic. He got into a fight with a captain of   and was arrested in 1995 for the incident. His tryst with crime continued even while serving with his unit.
 
 In 2009, Dharambir was arrested in Delhi Cantonment for robbery. He met Deepak alias Prasanjeet (30) in jail and the duo decided to work together after getting released. They later roped in Dheeraj (22). In 2011, Dharambir was suspended for misconduct but was not dismissed. He told police that he went into depression after his daughter was murdered by her in-laws.
 
 Talking about the modus operandi, Dharambir said he would facilitate the gang’s entry into the cantonment with the help of stickers and his ID. When questioned by residents of the complexes, he would say he had come for some work as a serving MES officer. He would sit in the car while the other gang members burgled houses. They would not stay in a house for more than 15 minutes.
 
 Senior officers said that two members of the gang are still at large. Cops suspect the gang is involved in 17 burglaries. CCTV footage of one burglary has been accessed by TOI which shows a man wearing a cap and blue shirt entering a residential complex. The person is seen carrying a rod to break locks of the doors.
 
 
