It was a night to relive the good old days at the recently-held hostel alumni meet of Kirori Mal college.  , an alumnus of the college, was also present at the gathering, and urged the ex-students to support the college in renovating the   auditorium.  , the principal of the college, said, “We have got tremendous support from all the college alumni. The foundation stone laying ceremony will take place in April, and we hope that we get continuous support so that the auditorium is ready in time.”

 
 
  
  Satish Kaushik at Kirori Mal College’s annual hostel alumni meet
 
  Manoj Sharma, the hostel warden and staff advisor of Players, the theatre society of  , said, “The main aim of today’s meet was to raise funds for the renovation of our auditorium. Satish ji has personally taken the responsibility to lead this project and collect as much funds as we can.”
 
  
  Dinesh Khattar, Principal
 
 
  
  Ashvini Chand, IPS
 
 
  
  Iqbal Shafiq from the batch of 1991
 
  
 When college friends meet, they remember the places where they used to spend most of their time, which is what the ex-students did. Abhikal Manu, Joint Commissioner, Income Tax, who belongs to the class of 2000, said, “Since Kamla Nagar Market is just behind the hostel, we used to have a monopoly on it. We have spent most of our college time here.”
 
   , another alumnus, said, “We all are really happy to see the progress of the college, but one thing that I didn’t like is restricting the students by placing CCTV cameras everywhere. We have noticed that those who were the naughtiest in college are the biggest officers today. So students should be left free and all CCTV cameras should be removed.”
 
 
  
  Kumar Amarendra Singh, Professor of History and former hostel warden
 
 
  
  Abhikal Manu, Joint Commissioner, Income Tax 
 
 
  Pratishta Singh, an ex-student who is now a professor at Faculty of Arts, DU, said, “My husband used to live in the hostel and I used to visit him between classes. Since girls were not allowed in the hostel, Amarendra sir, the warden at the time, used to argue with me. He used to say, ‘Ae ladki, boys hostel mein kyun ja rahi ho?’ Aur main kehti, ‘main kya karun sir, free period hai. Mujhe ludo khelna hai,’ and other such nonsense. It used to be fun visiting the boys’ hostel.”
 
 
  
  Pratishtha Singh with her husband Apoorva Singh, who was her senior in Kirori Mal College, and their friends from college, Anil Kumar Singh, Diwakar Panjawani and Hunny Tarika
 
 
  
  Manoj Sharma, hostel warden (L), Satish Kaushik and Dinesh Khattar, Principal
  
  
 
  
 
 
