Vadodara: As the rustication row that hit the Institute of Leadership and Governance (ILG) at M S University is turning bigger, Romel Sutariya – the student who has claimed that he along with another student was rusticated for meeting JNU leader Kanhaiya Kumar — on Sunday approached MSU chancellor Shubhangini Raje Gaekwad seeking her intervention.

 Even as Sutariya said that he will start his protest from ‘sankalp bhumi’ from Tuesday if he fails to get justice from MSU chancellor – the highest authority in the university, the Vidyarthi Vikas Sangh (VVS) – the right-wing student outfit continued with its protests. 
 
 VVS which has already demanded that under no circumstances the university should take back the students who were allegedly rusticated by the institute, on Sunday took the protest to the streets of the city calling Sutariya an accomplice of Kanhaiya Kumar who they said is leading “anti-national activities”. 
 
 Holding placards to save MSU from such “anti-national elements”, VVS leaders continued issuing threats warning dalit leader and Vadgam MLA Jignesh Mevani to stay away from the issue or face consequences.
 
 “We are against all those who want to play caste politics and divide Gujarat on caste-based politics. Also, we don’t want that MSU becomes a hub of anti-national activities,” said VVS leader Jayesh Balai. 
 
 A group of students from the current batch of the one year diploma programme being run by ILG on the other hand reached the university head office to issue clarifications on the controversy. 
 
 The students said that in all there were three students who had either not submitted their documents on time or not paid their fees before the deadline of March 5. 
 
 “These students were given constant reminders to submit documents and fees. The question of rustication does not arise as all of us had also met Kanhaiya Kumar but have never faced any kind of pressure from the institute after our meeting,” the group of students said in a joint representation, terming Sutariya’s allegations baseless and unfounded. 
 
 
