Here are the ladies who have made it to the maiden   15  . These dazzling beauties look every bit the women that all households would like to welcome with open arms...

 
 . 
 
 
 : The pretty lass from Thrissur was familiar to the audience as a film actress, but became a household name after she captivated the audience with her role as Ponnu in the TV serial Ponnambili. The dancer turned actress continues to woo the audience through her current shows, Ammuvinte Amma and the multilingual serial, Nandini. 
 
 : Single
 
 : Her sparkling eyes and that million dollar smile
 
 
  
 
 
 . 
 
 
 
 : Avanthika is best known for her portrayal of Dr Nandita in the Malayalam serial Athmasakhi, though she made her entry into showbiz through films like Crocodile Love Story and Neelakasham Pachakadal Chuvanna Bhoomi. The chirpy girl has now stepped into Telugu television through the serial Raja Rani
 
 : Married to Punjab native Anil Kumar Kainth
 
 : Her tall, svelte figure and dark brown eyes get her a sure place in the desirable list
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 : Arya rose to fame for her onscreen character with the same name in the popular Malayalam comedy show, Badai Bungalow. Though her character is a comic one, the actress has proved her versatility through films and serials. Arya is also a talented dancer and model, and has made a name for herself in the fashion industry
 
 : Single
 
 : She can turn heads with her model looks and her scorching hot photoshoots are proof!
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 : The audience got to see a completely new avatar of hers through her role in the serial Pokkuveyil which bagged her the Kerala State Television Award for Best Actress in 2016. Not only did the show click with the audience, it also established her prowess as an actress
 
 : Married to Dr Avin Anto
 
 : The doe-eyed beauty is also a skilled dancer
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 : Tanvi left her dream job at Trivandrum International airport to pursue her passion, acting. Though she dons grey shades in serials like Parasparam and Ratri Mazha, she insists that she enjoys doing such characters
 
 : Single
 
 : Bold and sexy with the right mix of attitude and oomph
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 : Telly audience were swept off the floor by her performance as Meenakshi in the serial Eashwaran Sakshi. When not before the camera, the actress gets busy walking the ramps for various big-league fashion brands and ads. The actress is also quite a sensation on social media, entertaining her fans with her funny and exquisite selfies with friends
 
 : Married to Bala Gopal
 
 : With her expressive eyes and dimpled smile, she is one of the most photogenic actresses in the television industry
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 : The bindaas girl of Malayalam TV
 conquered Malayali hearts through her scintillating dance moves on D4 Dance- Reloaded. The dancer-turned-actress, who completed her air hostess training, recently experimented with her adventure side through the show Dare The Fear. She also stepped into acting with a grey shaded role in the serial Kana Kanmani
 
 : Single
 
 : With her ravishing looks and toned body, the actress is the right package of beauty and talent
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 : Rebecca found her footing in showbiz through the film Minnaminungu. Her latest role as Kavya in the serial Kasthooriman has made her the new favourite of the Malayalam telly audience. The 19-year-old is the classic girl-next-door, who you would want to take home to your mother
 
 : Single
 
  Her traditional good looks and cute smile. But she can be quite badass too, and is a bike rider
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 : The serial Parasparam shot her to fame and she is known by her character, Deepthi IPS, now. She has a great fan following in both men and women that whenever she attends an event, she literally gets mobbed! The yummy mummy has a long way to go as she has recently stepped into films too
 
 : Married to Arun
 
 : The perfect mix of beauty and brains
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 : She took the television audience by storm with her villainess character Glory in Ente Manasaputhri. But the actress proved she could pack a punch as well with her daring stints in the adventure show Dare The Fear. She still retains her place in every serial director’s wish list
 
 : Married to Manoj Yadav
 
 : The half Malayali can shift from girl-next-door to a super hottie in a trice
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 : She stole hearts with her melodious voice as a radio jockey and later switched to the small screen as the anchor of the funny game show, Tamaar Padaar. Known for her strong screen presence and anchoring skills, this Thrissur girl is one of the most sought after hosts in 
 television
 
 : Married to Rimshad
 
 : Her cute and naughty smile
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 : Her first role, the cute but manipulative wife, Nayana, in the serial Bharya was what brought her to the limelight but she is a successful TV host as well today. With her rib-tickling one liners, she is one of the highlights of the dance show, D4Dance Junior vs Senior
 
 : Single
 
  A killer combo of childlike innocence and spunk, she is an automobile geek as well
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 : Her character in the serial Seetha has won her many a fan and admirer. The actress has been wowing the telly audience for a while now, with her dance recitals and the popular kids show she hosts, Katturumbu
 
 : Single
 
 : She is a powerful mix of cute and hot at the same time. Her long luscious long hair is sure to leave the guys swooning
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 : She was roped in to play the protagonist in the serial Krishnathulasi but has also succeeded in charming the family audience with her current character Rohini in the serial Bharya. She has made her presence felt on TV with fashion endorsements and dance shows this year
 
 : Single
 
 : The proverbial girl-next-door. Her traditional appeal makes her all the more desirable
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 : She might have Rajasthani roots but she charmed Malayali telly viewers as Lechu from the sitcom Uppum Mulakum. She is hardly 20 but her cute expressions and feisty 
 character has won her a strong fan following on social media
 
 : Single
 
  Her screen presence and that charming smile
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
