Coimbatore: Those eager to travel to Bengaluru in the double decker train will have to wait for the Karnataka election to get over. Though the new rakes of the double decker train to ply between Coimbatore and Bengaluru had arrived about 10 days ago,  . 

 Railway officials said they could not operate the train to Bengaluru since the model code of conduct is in place in Karnataka. 
 
 Railway officials said that they had written to the South Western Railway asking if they could launch the train. But, they replied that they required the permission from the Karnataka election commission, which has denied permission. “Since the election is coming up, any new announcements or launches cannot be taken up,” said an official.
 
 It will be the first point-to-point train between the two cities. The Southern Railway was mulling to use it as a special train until then, but even that is not being allowed, an official said.
 
 While from Bengaluru, there are double decker trains towards Chennai, Coimbatore is still awaiting one, said chairman of the Coimbatore District Railway Passenger Welfare Association M Jameel Mohammad. “The announcement came in 2016 and for the past two years, we have been waiting. It has been 10 days since the rakes have been brought. They should have launched it a year ago, but they were conducting trial runs. Since it is summer time, people are excited to travel in a double decker. It cannot be used in other routes due to the cost of running and operating it. We will meet the new divisional manager of Salem railway division and ask him to check other possibilities,” he said.
 
 Another technical issue with running the train is the small section in Karnataka where the line has not been electrified. “In Tamil Nadu, we have electrified routes, but for this train, we will require a diesel filling station. In Coimbatore, it is not there so an engine has to run to Erode for it which is additional cost. We are discussing and finding a solution for that as well,” said an official.
 
 
