Industrialists in the city want exclusive freighter flight services to European and Gulf countries from the Coimbatore International Airport to tap engineering, textile and perishable goods for export.

 Kongu Global Forum (KGF) convenor Vanitha Mohan told TOI that Coimbatore, Tirupur, Erode, Salem, Namakkal, Karur and Nilgiris districts have enoromous potential for export in the Western Tamil Nadu. "Most of the textile, automobile, engineering goods and perishable goods are transported to Bengaluru and Kochi airports for exports from western Tamil Nadu. We have a lot of potential for exports of perishable goods to the Gulf countries and Singapore. Vegetables have to be transported overseas immediately from the Coimbatore cargo complex. Only then can we compete in the international market. But these days, we are forced to transport perishable items in trucks with freezer availability to the Bengaluru airport for export. The exporters are also forced to increase the price of the perishable goods. We are approaching the civil aviation ministry, the Airport Authority of India and many freighter flight operators to operate flights to the Gulf countries and Singapore from the Coimbatore International Airport," said Vanitha Mohan.
 
 K Ilango, former CII Coimbatore Zone chairman, told TOI that a freighter flight should be operated directly to European destinations or via Dubai from the Coimbatore International Airport. Many exporters from Udhagamandalam send perishable goods, including flowers, to the Bengaluru airport for export. Amsterdam is the main market for flowers. "If we have freighter flight service to European countries, cut flower cultivation can be increased in the Nilgiris district and our production and economy also see a subsequent rise in Western Tamil Nadu.
 
 V Sundaram, president, CODISSIA, said Coimbatore airport director R Mahalingam told industrial associations a few months ago that he would arrange a bonded truck to the Chennai airport from the Coimbatore cargo complex carrying tonnes of engineering, textile and other goods to the Chennai airport for export.
 
 
