NEW DELHI: The East Delhi Municipal Corporation has filed an affidavit in the  , pleading that   be directed to immediately hand over land at Sonia Vihar and Ghonda Gujran Khadar for landfilling. However, both locations fall under zone ‘O’ or the   zone category.

 IIT-Delhi had recently observed that no reparation work was possible at the Ghazipur landfill site. More than 1,600MT of solid waste continues to be dumped at the site, 17 years after its scheduled closure. The landfill’s height has touched 65m.
 
 In a recent letter to the Central Pollution Control Board, submitted along with an affidavit, EDMC stated that IIT-Delhi was appointed technical advisor for the Ghazipur landfill. Consultants have recommended that “the existing slope is unstable and failure can be triggered by rainfall or earthquake... The landfill should immediately undergo scientific and engineered closure”.
 
 On September 1, 2017, two persons died after a part of the Ghazipur dump fell on them.
 
 However, the catch is that the proposed landfill sites at Sonia Vihar and Ghonda Gujran can do even more damage by contaminating the floodplain, environmentalists warn. The   bench had directed that the corporation, which needs such landfill sites, “should move CPCB and the state pollution control board forthwith for vetting the worth of land indicated for its use as landfill site within a week, and CPCB should decide the matter in the next three weeks (sic)”.
 
 EDMC, in its affidavit, submitted that AB Akolkar, former member secretary of CPCB, who was assisting in the case, found both river zone sites to be “suitable” for development of landfills. According to EDMC, the two landfill sites at Sonia Vihar (130 acre) and Ghonda Gujran (50 acre) will be needed for 1,000 MT per day residue, inert waste and silt for the next 20 years with a maximum height of 25 metres as prescribed under the the Municipal Solid Waste rules.
 
 Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan convenor Manoj Mishra had written to former LG Najeeb Jung and CM   in 2016 about the dangers of setting up a landfill in Ghonda Gujran.
 
 “The site is located in the river bed, violating all legal provisions in the country that one can think of — including the Water Act, 1974, The Environment Protection Act, 1986, the Waste Management Rules, 2016, The Ganga Authority Notification 2016, The NGT judgment dated 13 January 2015 in Maily se   case, the DDA Act, The Zonal Plan for Zone O (river Zone) to name a few (sic),” the letter read.
 
 Mishra added that the landfills would destroy the existing wetlands and “no matter what sanitary measures are taken, shall pollute and continue to pollute (over decades) the underlying aquifers and the ground water of the region. It shall continue to pollute the air in the region and compromise the health of the people residing in and around the area. And what would happen in case of the floods in the river? It is beyond comprehension that while everybody concerned is aiming to work hard to rejuvenate and clean the river, here comes plans to bring to naught all such efforts”.
 
 
