NAGPUR:   has decided to change the location of the highest building of the city from   to opposite Yeshwant Stadium in Dhantoli.

 The 25-storey tower will be a part of the traffic and transport management centre (TTMC). Although the decision was taken more than a year ago, it has come to light after tender for construction of TTMC was floated.
 
 Mahametro had earlier decided to house the Sitabuldi interchange station in a 25-storey building with floors over the station having hotels, multiplexes, malls, offices, etc. “When we started construction of the Sitabuldi station, we realized that it would require land acquisition and several banks and shops in the area would have to be razed. Moreover, Munje Square would have to closed for traffic for over a year. Underground parking too will not be possible at the site. So, we decided to change the plan. Now, the structure will only have one floor above the station for traffic control,” managing director   told TOI.
 
 Mahametro had launched an architecture contest to design the Zero Mile and Sitabuldi interchange stations in May 2015. French firm Enia had bagged the job and designed the stations. The design for Zero Mile station still stands.
 
 Mahametro project director Mahesh Kumar said that the TTMC would come up on Patwardhan Ground, which was spread over an area of around 20,000 square metre. “It will be connected with the station with an elevated skywalk. We will provide bus connectivity and parking in the TTMC. The construction will have a floor to space index (FSI) of 4 and will be spread over 9.83 lakh square feet. Some 2.92 lakh square feet will be dedicated to free parking. It will be a public private partnership (PPP) project,” he added.
 
 Elaborating on the project, Kumar said that it would have three towers and cost Rs320 crore. “One tower will be 25 storey high while the remaining two will have 19 floors. All the towers will have retail mall on ground, first and second floors and small offices on third, fourth and fifth floors. A three-level multiplex has been envisaged above fifth floor in Tower 1 and fifteen floor of offices in Towers 1 and 3,” he added.
 
 Kumar further said that the retail mall would have inline stores, food court, family entertainment centre, large format stores, supermarket, mini anchor fashion store, mini anchor for electronics and home decor, etc.
 
 “The basement will be completely dedicated to parking. We will provide 600 bays for parking of cars, 1,050 bays for parking of motorcycles and 1,000 slots for bicycles,” he added.
 
 The PPP operator will have to make the TTMC a green building with IGBC platinum rating. “The operator will landscape the promenade along Nag River in line with Nag riverfront development project. A landscaped public plaza in front of the TTMC will have to be created. Sun-cutting louvers on the façades, rainwater harvesting and public art will be the other features,” he further said.
 
