VADODARA/AHMEDABAD: The design of the   passenger terminal hub, which will act as originating point for those boarding the   bullet train, will be based on the theme of Mahatma Gandhi’s famous Dandi March of 1930.

 The National High-Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) which is implementing the Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Railway Project has finalized the design of the passenger terminal hub.
 
 The passenger terminal hub will be nearly 400 metres from the Sabarmati station which will be connected by a foot overbridge.
 
 It will be at this terminal that passengers from every transport system — be it those using the metro which is presently under construction, those using the Indian railways or those simply coming to board the bullet train — will assemble before reaching the station area.
 
 It was from the Sabarmati Ashram on the banks of river Sabarmati that Bapu had launched the famous Dandi March on March 12, 1930. Interestingly, the bullet train’s station at Sabarmati, will also carry Bapu’s imprint in form of the famous ‘charkha’ – the spinning wheel that the Mahatma used as a symbol of ‘swadeshi’ during the country’s freedom struggle. The bird’s eye view or the aerial view of the building will reflect the symbol of ‘charkha’.
 
 “The rooftop will be covered end to end with solar panels flaunting the design of a large ‘charkha’. It will be visible in the pictures taken from the top,” confirmed Dhananjay Kumar, PRO of NHSRCL.
 
 Kumar added, “The process for land acquisition is going on. We are trying our best to begin the construction of the passenger terminal hub in November-December. If not, we will certainly start the construction in January 2019.”
 
 The Sabarmati terminus of the bullet train will be between the existing Ram Nagar station, which is the main station for trains heading to Mumbai, and the Ranip station, which is connected to   route. The bullet train station will also have connectivity with Metro, and a footbridge will connect Ram Nagar and Metro station through a skywalk. Work to acquire the land has already begun.
 
 
