CHENNAI: Several south Chennai neighbourhoods, including Greenways Road where deputy chief minister   and other ministers reside, floundered in the dark in the wee hours of Saturday, as two sub-stations tripped following   to underground cables. The affected residents flooded the Tangedco helpline with calls between 2am and 3.30am, and the staff restored power in less than an hour.

 Around 2.30am, the RA Puram sub-station broke down, affecting power supply to Mandaveli, Mylapore, Santhome, RA Puram, Greenways Road, T Nagar and Royapettah.
 
 Tangedco officials said an optical fibre cable (OFC) company had damaged the undergound cables using trenches leading to the breakdown. “The underground 230kV cable feeding power to 230kV Raja Annamalai Puram sub-station and 230kV Mylapore GIS sub-station tripped causing interruption to arterial areas of the city. The 230kV underground cable failed after it was damaged during the trenchless digging work undertaken by   operator at the junction of   and Luz Church Road,” said a senior Tangedco official. 
 
 Power was restored to all areas within 30 minutes after officials borrowed from the 230kV Manali-Mylapore circuit. “We are initiating action against the OFC operator for damaging the cable by filing police complaint. We are are also asking Greater Chennai Corporation and commissioner of police to consult Tangedco before permitting private companies to dig up the road to lay cables,” said the official. Sources said Panneerselvam was not in the residence when power supply was hit. “Greenways Road was dark and almost all residences did not have power. The road is not only home to ministers’ residences but is also a dwelling place for a lot of lower and middle income groups. Many of the residents came out of their houses and sat on the road for a few minutes,” said M Mastan, who lives in the area. 
 
 The damage to the underground cable at Royapettah also affected power supply to areas like Kotturpuram, parts of Adyar and Taramani as one of the underground cables was connected to the Taramani sub-station from RA Puram. 
 
 “Unlike previous years, when it used to take several hours to restore the supply as there was only one power source for sub-stations, now almost all sub-stations have two sources. If there is a problem in one source, power can be restored by changing the connections to the other. This is what happened in Taramani last night and power was restored within 30 minutes,” said a senior official at the Taramani sub-station. 
 
