Ludhiana: Lack of financial resources has been forcing the members of the Punjab Cricket Association for the deaf to avail of the gold loan services to fulfill their basic needs. These cricketers are part of the third edition of the Usha Deaf Indian cricket league at Punjab Agriculture University cricket ground here.

 With no affiliation from the cash rich BCCI, the All India Cricket Association for the deaf could not manage to organise sufficient cricket tournaments throughout the year. 
 
 “Last year we demanded a car for one of the best players of the tournament. And to fulfill that promise, I had to take the help of the gold loan services (taking loan on his personal gold bracelet, ring) so that craze among these cricketers remain intact,” said Padam Passi, (who suffers from hearing impairment and is the general secretary of the Punjab Cricket Association for the deaf during an interaction through a mediator with TOI.
 
 “We have managed all three deaf cricket leagues at our own level by taking sponsorship from different multinational companies with no help from the government. This international cricket tournament has participation of players from Nepal and Bangladesh,” he said. 
 
 “We have made several attempts to earn affiliation from the BCCI but to no avail,” he said adding, “Cricket is a sport in which thousands of crores are involved but there is nothing for us as no prominent cricket player or association has come to our rescue.The local administration has supported us in every way by providing free accommodation and diet to the cricketers,” said Passi.
 
 One of the players named, Inderjeet Yadav, from Satluj XI team, said, “None of the famous cricketing personalities came to meet us and support our tournament this year despite requests. This is very demoralising as we need their support so that we continue to pursue cricket.” 
 
 Results 
 
 First match was played between Deaf Lions XI and Jhelum XI in which Deaf Lions made 135 for the loss of eight wickets in 20 overs. Jhelum XI scored 137 score in just 19.5 overs and won the match. 
 
 Day’s second match was played between Ravi XI vs Chenab XI In which Ravi XI scored 131 runs with the loss of 9 wickets in 20 overs. Chenab XI chased the target losing 7 wickets and entered the next round. 
 
 The third match of the day was played between the Satluj XI and Silent Heroes XI in which Satluj XI batting first scored 139 runs in 20 overs. Silent Heroes chased the target easily losing four wickets. 
 
 The last match of the day was played between Beas XI and AICAD XI. Beas XI scored 157 losing three wickets. AICAD XI were bowled out for 155 runs.
 
 
