HYDERABAD: A couple had a traumatic experience at the hands of policemen in a civil dispute case, courtesy   subinspector K Ramesh. Contrary to the official code of conduct, SI Ramesh not only got involved in the ₹25 lakh dispute, but brazenly took the side of the opposite party, with whom the couple’s family has a civil dispute.

 
 The man was brought to the   in the rival party’s car by cops, slapped by the SI in front of his wife and dumped in the lock-up for several hours. Police also mistreated and detained his wife at the police station. On Wednesday evening, the erring SI was suspended for “bad conduct”.
 
 The shocker came to light after Hyderabad police commissioner   made an appeal in an audio clip to policemen on Wednesday to conduct themselves properly.
 
 Anjani Kumar, in the audio message to policemen, narrated the incident which took place at Chilkalguda police station on May 7.
 
 “After the man was kept in the lock-up, in front of his wife, sub-inspector Ramesh slapped him,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 A lady constable behaved rudely with the woman and she too was detained for 30 minutes. She was not even allowed to use her phone to call her relatives and advocate,” the commissioner narrated, terming the victims educated and hailing from a respected family.
 
 On Tuesday night, the woman approached Anjani Kumar and narrated the ordeal. Kumar said, he was hugely disappointed and pained by the incident. “What impression does it give? Where is the sense of justice? Before the other party, the couple was humiliated by police. What image are we creating for ourselves? Is this what our society expects,’’ he asked his colleagues. The policemen were also reminded about unprecedented resources provided by the government to police department.
 
 Later in the day, Hyderabad police issued a press note announcing SI Ramesh’s suspension. “Dignity and selfrespect of a citizen is important and   is committed to the service of common citizen. We follow a policy of zero tolerance as far as bad conduct of officers is concerned towards public. Police should not get involved in civil disputes,” the commissioner said in the note.
 
 
