BENGALURU: Thousands of wannabe doctors appeared for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for undergraduates on Sunday across Karnataka and said Physics was tougher but Biology was all from the NCERT textbooks.

 
 Maryam Sahana, one of the aspirants who went to the Kendriya Vidyalaya School in Malleswaram said, Ï was very well prepared but Physics part was very difficult.” Arjun B, who took coaching classes from Deeksha Centre for Learning also said that the paper was lengthy. “I think the paper was as tough as that of last year but the Physics paper in particular was lengthy and few questions were tricky. That is why I had to skip answering a few of them. There were some direct questions from NCERT text books in other sections. Time was not really a constraint though.”
 
 
 However, not just students, experts also analysed the exam to be overall tougher than last year. Sridhar G, founder of Deeksha said, “While the Biology paper was along expected lines, primarily from the NCERT book with a few analytical questions, the real surprise was the Physics paper. Most of the questions in the Physics part were well within the syllabus but many had two or more concepts interlinked and over 55% of the paper was numerical taking more time than expected. A total score of 500 may be needed to secure a merit seat at any one of the medical colleges in Karnataka while the cut-off mark is expected to be around 340.”
 
 
 H N Subramanyam, head of Physics Department at BASE told TOI, “About 45 % of the questions in the Physics segment were easy, 35 % were moderate and 20 % were difficult. There were more questions from ‘Mechanics’ than from ‘Thermal Physics and Waves’ from the first year. But in second year portion questions are equally distributed among all topics. On the whole the paper can be regarded as moderately tough.”
 
 
 Examinations were held
 
 
 There were more than 187 centres in the state, across nine cities including Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru, Belagavi etc. Dharwad was newly added in the city list having a few centres for   too.
 
 
