CHANDRAPUR: A semi-adult   was found dead in the forest near village Chargaon under   range on Tuesday morning. Primary investigations suggests that the feline was killed in the territorial fight with another tiger, forest officials have claimed. 

 As per the reports, local villagers discovered the carcass in the morning in 1,266 compartment of protected forest near Chargaon and informed the forest officers. Forest team led by Sindewahi RFO, Arun Gond rushed to the spot with his team and took charge of the carcass. Deceased tigress was around two and half years old, he added. RFO Gond further informed that the carcass was fresh and had multiple injuries on the body. He claimed that all the body parts of the tigress were intact and suggested that the death caused due to territorial fight. 
 
 Later, DCF of   forest division, Kulraj Singh; ACF Ashirwad Meshram, representative of PCCF; Nitin Buradkar and NTCA representative Aditya Joshi too visited the site. Post mortem on the carcass was performed in the presence of four veterinary doctors. Gond informed that the tigress was native of the forest and had just separated from her mother. 
 
 State wildlife board member and honorary wildlife warden of Chandrapur, Bandu Dhotre claimed that the incidents of deaths due to territorial fights are on rise in the area. Rising number of tigers in the district is a reason for fight among the tigers. The fact that the canal of Gosekhurd project stalled the dispersal of tigers in Bramhapuri forest division cannot be overlooked. He claimed that Gosekhurd’s canal separates Bramhapuri forest in two parts fracturing the tiger corridor through jungle. He demanded that the passes suggested by forest department over the right canal of Gosekhurd should be therefore immediately built to curb the incidents. 
 
 This is the first incident of tiger death in state this year. Last year, total 98 tigers died in the country, while tiger parts of 17 tigers was seized by forest department.   with 22 tiger deaths led the tally followed by 19 in Maharashtra.
 
 
