HYDERABAD: In less than three weeks into 2018, lives of three young students were snuffed out due to alleged negligence of   and parents.

 Two of the victims were just five-year-old, who died after they were left unattended in a school bus and school premises respectively, while the third one was a 16-year-old student of Sri Narayana College, Shamshabad, who got electrocuted due to negligence of the college authorities.
 
 “All these deaths could have been averted if the managements had been little careful. In the case of Anjali at   on Saturday, the bus did not have a door and just a string was tied as barricade. Also, there was no helper and driver was driving the bus rashly. In fact, school managements hire whoever is ready to work for less money as a driver and are least bothered about the safety of children,” Telangana Progressive Teachers’ Federation president   told STOI.
 
 The teachers’ body representative said that instead of reacting when something bad happens, the government should conduct regular inspections and make sure school buses, other facilities and staff were in order to avoid such untoward incidents.
 
 “About three months ago, a three-year-old was mowed down by a school bus in the same area. Now, a similar incident happened. Similar incidents may repeat in the near future if the government fails to take any action. Instead of reacting after innocent lives are lost, the government should make sure schools follow rules and regulations,” Nishitha M, a private school teacher, said.
 
 They said inspections should be conducted to see if a ‘right’ person is driving the school bus and whether he has the necessary licence. Also, the government should check if schools were carrying more number of students than the capacity of a vehicle and if there was a helper or not on the buses.
 
 Parents too concurred with teachers and said even they have to be careful. They said they should ensure their wards were under the care of right people.
 
 “Most parents just leave their children till the bus or at the school gate and do not bother to see how the driver is or if their wards are standing near the footboard. They have to make sure that their children are in safe hands and, if not, should bring the problem to the notice of officials concerned,” Sudharshan K, a parent, said, adding that many parents send their children in overcrowded autos and buses to school.
 
