BHOPAL: A widow who is no longer seen as weak and helpless, a daughter-in-law who is suddenly the star of the family, a scared-easily sister who is now a ‘sherni’ — the awe-inspiring stunt ride by BSF’s   on R-Day is full of hero stories like these. Madhya Pradesh girls made up the second largest contingent in the BSF bike team. Now back home to celebrate their success — and do an encore on Women’s Day — the daredevils told TOI how the experience has transformed their lives, and changed the way people look at them.

 Indira Bhadouriya, a 29-year-old who lost her husband a few years back, joined the force to “overcome her grief”. She was among the seven riders you saw holding up a formation of 30 personnel as they drove down Rajpath. Brimming with confidence, the   girl said: “Now, society will not attach a tag to me after my husband’s death. I am not a weak and helpless lady.”
 
 “I was very depressed after my husband passed away. In order to give meaning to my life, I joined BSF. When I came home after performing in the   Parade, my friends and relatives picked me up and welcomed me with garlands. This is the happiest that I’ve been in a long time,” she said. Asked what was going on in her head while riding the bike in the front row, she laughed and said: “Everyone must be thinking that we got to see all the leaders of the nation while riding down Rajpath. But the only thought we had in our minds was to maintain control and balance. Had we looked from side to side to see who was watching us, we could have lost balance. Like Arjuna in the Mahabharata, I could only see my goal — reaching India Gate with my team and nothing else.”
 
 They realized that thousands of TV and mobile phone cameras were on them. It’d take just one slip to go from history to catastrophe. But they held their nerve. “Imagine, most of us had never ridden a bicycle till 15 months ago,” said Kshama Malaiya, of Hoshangabad, with a twinkle in her eyes. “I always wanted to join the defence forces but I never thought I’d ever ride a bike as I was very scared of two-wheelers. It was very difficult for me in the beginning as I did not have full control over the accelerator and clutch. But I overcame my fears,” said the 23-year-old.
 
 Parvati Rani, 27, who hails from Katni laughed when she recalled how she had kept the whole thing a secret from her in-laws. “They were stunned to watch me do bike stunts before the President and Prime Minister at the R-Day Parade. Now, they are telling everyone ‘bahu ne sar uncha kar diya’. It feels wonderful,” said Rani. Like the rest of the Seema Bhawani, Indore’s Pushpa Yadav realizes she is becoming an ideal for little girls. “I just don’t want this feeling to end,” she said. “It was only when they saw me on Rajpath that my brother and father believed that I could ride a motorcycle, that too a Royal Enfield, and do such dare-devil stunts. ” Their trainer  , deputy commander of BSF’s Motor Transport School in Gwalior, had told TOI on January 27 how teaching the girls was an eye-opener for himself.
 
