Music knows no bounds, it is commonly said, but it seems to be a totally different case for the youth in the State, especially when they break away from conventions and choose an alternative genre of music to pursue. This prompted me to interact with aspiring performers recently —  , who is doing his BA Music in Maharaja’s College and Steve Kotoor, a BCom student from Sacred Hearts College.
The conversation arose out of the interest to unravel that aspect which might help artistes sustain musically in the long run. This is because sometimes relying on one’s own mechanism to get one forward doesn’t always work and it is always better to look into the next generation and imbibe one or two perspectives.
 
 While I could sense a reflection of my struggles and journey in these youngsters, it was also a way to learn if there has been a change in the way parents and teachers approach them.
 
 Abhijith Damodaran is into alternative and progressive rock and keeps himself busy performing for two bands Pagli and Rock Story. He, like many young musicians in Kerala, is constantly in pursuit of making it to the mainstream.
 
 Ask him about the support he receives and he says, “Because only a few in our society can comprehend and appreciate metal and progressive rock music, it will never be an easy journey till people are not acclimatised to music beyond Carnatic. My friends who have been passionately following   have found it tough to get past these struggles and are left with no choice but to do film music.” Abhijith says that most of the mainstream artistes too are in a comfort zone and do not invite improvisations.
 
 It was this passion for a genre that is considered alien by traditionalists in our place that struck a chord with me.
 However, there are also those like Steve who enjoys the support of his parents. Steve’s dad Samson is a pianist and has always been pushing him to hone his music skills.
 
 “Right from my childhood, my family has boosted my confidence to showcase my talent. Even now when I am contemplating on making this my full-fledged profession after college, they ensure that I am given the required support and encouragement,” says Steve, who is into melody and Jazz music, and is active in the college band Heartian and another group called Octaves.
 
 While the intensity of the struggle might seem trivial when they are in college because they are busy juggling academics and extracurricular activities, once they are out in the real world and pursuing these interests, it grows manifold.
 
 Just like how I was at their age, these students are aware of the strenuous times ahead. Abhijith says, “We know that if we make it to a popular band, we would do well but otherwise, the money that we make out of performances might not suffice for a living.”
 
 That way our struggles might look the same. But the difference is that after school, there was no such thing as band culture for me, and it was only when I left for Chennai post college that the horizons widened. Social media too now plays a major part in being a launch pad for these kids.
 
 These youngsters are clear about what they want and are equipping themselves with all the necessary resources. Steve has completed Eighth Grade in keyboard and Abhijith has tried his hand at programming. They are also aware of the importance of marketing and positioning oneself, and the tendency of the audience to rally behind film songs rather the independent music.
 
 However, both of them seem to be practical when they say that it’s also important not to be uptight during the initial years of your career.
 The path of independent music is a road less travelled even today, according to majority of the youth. I hope that this phenomenon changes for the better and the sky becomes the limit for youngsters to explore their talents.
 
