Sector 50's Nirvana Country was announced the cleanest society in the city by the   of Gurugram last Tuesday. The survey was conducted for Swachh Survekshan, announced by the   for 2018. Sandeep Mirakhur, President of the RWA, says, "Our locality - spread across 140 acres - has about 1,000 resident families. We maintain the locality with proper planning, and help from resident volunteers and RWA employees. We began solid waste management and composting in 2015. Initially, out of 1,000 houses, 200 were segregating their waste, but now, the number has gone up to more than 800. So, it’s the awareness that has worked for us. The locality was visited by the MCG team two weeks back, they inspected the record books of waste segregation, walked around the locality, checked our composting site and public toilets."

  What set the township apart from other localities was an organized waste management system. Saurabh Nain, Executive Engineer, MCG, says, "We surveyed about 50 RWAs and 40 localities in all four zones of Gurugram. Nirvana Country had the most organised waste management system in the city. They have 'twin bins' outside each house, and the residents also manage a decentralised composting plant. The locality is very green and follows a ‘no trash-tolerance policy’. These were the main criteria for judgement under Swachh Survekshan."
 
 
  
  Nirvana resident Monika Khanna uses the composting plant (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 Interestingly, the RWA of the township also believes in reusing electronic items. Sandeep adds, "The RWA also asks for electronic donations. So we don’t buy new things as we have discarded LED TVs or computers for use. For waste management, we make sure the segregation is done properly. For that, we have instructed the pickers to inform the residents who mix waste or are not regulating it properly." The RWA informed that the composting plant in 2015 cost about Rs20 lakhs. Technology has evolved since then, and the same setup can be done in Rs5-7 lakhs now. Talking about the increasing popularity of waste managment systems, Monika Khanna, another resident of the society, tells us, "The number of segregators has increased dramatically over the years and people are more informed now. Initially, when I started campaigning, convincing people took time. But with awareness gatherings, the residents here have adapted to this lifestyle." 
 
 Vasanth Kumar, another resident, says that the waste management system has evolved in front of him. "I have lived in this locality for 10 years and started segregating waste two years back. I have seen the whole transformation happening. Previously, the waste used to go to landfills, but now there is awareness about its hazards."
 
  
  
 
  "We could understand segregation, but most of the kitchen work is done with the house help, so training them was challenging. Segregating is not very difficult, it only needs some awareness. Our waste earlier used to go to landfills, but now we make high quality compost from it," says Shibani Sethi, a Nirvana resident. 
 
  
 Nirvana has about 35 cleaning staff members. "There are review meetings twice a day to keep the functioning proper," says Monika, a resident volunteer who also introduced the concept of composting in the locality. The locality also has a common e-mail ID where locals can report about the littered areas. 
 
  There are ten public toilets in the locality, which are cleaned and checked four times a day. "When the MCG officials visited our locality, they also checked these everyday cleaning duties apart from the waste management programme we run," says Sandeep. The locality also has a centralised helpline number in case of a water leakage or litter problem.
 
 
  
  The composting plant consisting of 10 metal compost bins and five continuous composters outside the society
 
 
  
 The locality has volunteers who keep a check on all these activities. Sandeep adds, "Our staff works only eight hours a day and six days a week, unlike other localities that have their society staff working round the clock." He says that this schedule keeps them motivated. They also have an 'employee of the month' award for their society staff. 
 
  "The locality also allows the staff to make money from recyclable goods. They can take anything they think is useful to them. This kind of effort and support keeps the employees connected to the place and they all deliver their best," Sandeep tells us.
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  
 The locality has a rule on the amount of water spent on construction sites as well. They are only allowed to use 15,000 litres overall and 500 litres a day for construction. Anyone renovating or constructing in the locality has to abide by this rule, else the RWA holds the right to fine them with Rs20,000.
 
  "Many Gurugram RWAs have conditions on guests entering the premises, but when we moved to Nirvana, the only policing was for cleanliness. Our landlord instructed to segregate our waste and said that we cannot be littering on the streets here," says Ashish Kumar, a bachelor tenant in the locality. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  --Aurushi.Goswami@timesgroup.com
 
 
