KOLKATA: The authorities at   will change a 97-yearold rule from Tuesday, keeping the museum open for an hour more daily. Similarly, the timing for the gardens have also been tweaked. With the revised timings,   will be the only museum under the aegis of the ministry of culture to remain open for that long. The rest open at 10am and close at 5pm.

 
 “Times have changed and offices, banks, libraries and institutions remain open beyond what used to be called ‘office hours’. Hence, there is no reason why the most-visited museum in the country should keep following the old rule. We were hesitating all these years only for security reasons, but now finally we will be keeping the museum open till 6pm. This will, however, be an initial revision. Looking at how things move, we plan to further increase the timings for another hour after a couple of months,” said  , curator of the museum.
 
 
  
 
 The museum has been able to extend its timings because of CISF that is now providing security to the premises. Earlier,   Memorial Hall had its own security guards who teamed up with private security guards and Kolkata Police to provide security to the heritage building and premises. Atotal of 100 CISF cops now man Victoria Memorial Hall round-the-clock.
 
 “We held a series of meetings with the CISF before deciding to extend the timings,” Sengupta added.
 
 The white marble structure was a paean to Queen Victoria, built between 1906 and 1921 by Lord Curzon, the then Viceroy of India. It was primarily meant to be a museum to showcase the Raj. Separate galleries were constructed following different themes. However, the timings had always followed the 10am-5pm structure. From Tuesday, people will be expected to leave the gardens by 6:30pm. This timing will be reviewed and increased by another hour when the museum timing eventually extends to 7pm. “We are going to augment the illumination in the gardens based on the CISF’s advice and then we will extend the garden timings further,” Sengupta said.
 
 
