Tirunelveli: A few contractors with the highways department owing allegiance to MDMK staged a demonstration before the office of the department’s superintending engineer (SE), Tirunelveli circle on Monday against the alleged irregularities in awarding contracts for road repair, re-laying and patch works. One of the contractors and MDMK district secretary, KMA Nizam Mohideen, told reporters that the circle office had called for bids to carry out 42 road repair, maintenance and patch works in Tirunelveli, Tuticorin and Kanyakumari districts on December 22 and 28 last year. This included repair works on the roads that were damaged in Cyclone Ockhi. “Around 15 persons were in the race for works valued at less than Rs 2 crore, while only around five bid for carrying out the works worth Rs 5 crore to Rs 20 crore. The SE here disqualified eligible contractors and awarded contracts for these 42 works worth around Rs 200 crore to people in the ruling party,” he alleged. Nizam said that he bid for nine works, including five that were valued at more than Rs 5 crore and Rs 6 crore. “According to the SE, the winning bidders for these contracts uniformly quoted 0.01 per cent less than me. For contracts with value below Rs 2 crore I had quoted 14 per cent less, but the same contractors have quoted 22 per cent less than me,” he claimed. Raising suspicion over the uniformity in the difference in the bidding amount, he alleged that the SE had helped the winning bidders to make the correction in their quotation to quote less than him and the other contractors. He also claimed that contractors were forced to give 25 per cent to 30 per cent of the bidding value as bribe to the highways department and ministry to get contracts. “This is the reason for the poor quality of roads such as the Tirunelveli - Sengottai highway,” he said and added that less than a year ago the 52-km-long road was re-laid at Rs 30 crore but it was filled with pits and potholes. “Accidents and loss of life on the road are a daily affair,” he said and recalled that the poor condition of the highway was criticized by the high court. Raising similar allegations, contractor N Mariappan also claimed that officials had flouted various norms to award the contracts to ruling party men. SE of Tirunelveli Poovanandam told reporters that the contractors who raised the allegation would have been disappointed that they did not make successful bids. He said he would go through the representation of those who made the allegation and respond.