MANGALURU: All India Congress Committee president   released the Karnataka   2018-2023 here 
  and said, "I am proud to say this manifesto reflects the aspirations of every single person of the state." 

 Gandhi said the Congress manifesto prepared by the party is the voice of the people of Karnataka. 
 
 "This manifesto has been prepared by leaders including M   after meeting people of state. Leaders have prepared it after speaking to people across the state. They pooled opinion and suggestions of people before drafting the manifesto. The Prime Minister tells people his ' '. We are speaking 'Mann Ki Baat' of people through our manifesto," Gandhi said. 
 
 He said Moily and other leaders have spent hours and hours to prepare manifesto.
 
 The BJP on the other hand, he claimed had a manifesto that was being written by 3-4 people and "will be filled with ideas of Reddy brothers and ideology of RSS."
 
 Continuing his attack on the saffron party, Gandhi recalled the Rs 15 lakh promise of Prime Minister Modi ans said "Modi does not stand to what he speaks." 
 
 Every single state in the nation looks at Karnataka and the state gives message of development, he said. 
 
 Earlier, Former Union Minister and Manifesto Drafting Committee President M Veerappa Moily welcoming the gathering and noted that for the first time the state manifesto of Congress was being released by the AICC chief. 
 
 Moily said, "Karnataka is secular land it is not a state suitable for BJP. We have prepared the manifesto with major focus on 16 points in consultation with all leaders and people." 
 
 Chief minister Siddaramaiah, meanwhile, added, "Congress will win majority again in the state. We will bag more seats this time. Our manifesto includes aspirations of people."
 
 
 BJP is banking on communal vote Bank, Siddaramaiah said adding that people of state are wise enough understand this.
 Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday released the party's manifesto for the upcoming Karnataka Assembly polls on April 27 in Mangalore, saying "we have delivered what we promised."
 
 Rahul called the manifesto the "Man ki Baat" of Karnataka and added, "We believe in Basavanna's ideology." Claiming that the Congress government in Karnataka had achieved 95 per cent of its targets from its previous manifesto, he promised, "whatever we are saying in the manifesto will be done."
 
 He then went on to attack the BJP, questioning the saffron party's move to grant tickets to "tainted" netas. 
 
 The Congress president said the manifesto was prepared by leaders of the party after deliberations with the people of the state, adding that senior leader Veerappa Moily spent hours working on the manifesto. On the other hand, he claimed, the BJP manifesto was written by just 3-4 people was was filled with ideas of the Reddy brothers and the ideology of the RSS.
 
 
 During his two-day seventh leg of campaigning in the southern state, which starts today, Gandhi will visit parts of Uttara Kannada such as Ankola city, Mastikatte Circle (Kumta), Saraswati Circle (Honnavar) and hold a corner meeting at Bhatkal,
 
 
 
