LUCKNOW: Two persons were killed while dozens were critically injured in the violence that erupted during protests by dalits against the alleged dilution of SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act across UP on Monday. Police detained around 450 persons.   police arrested a former BSP MLA   for fuelling violent protests in the district. 

 Union home ministry has sought a report on the violence from UP police. Five districts in west UP,  , Meerut,  , Agra and   witnessed maximum violence with hundreds of protesters blocking highways, railway tracks and markets. Several vehicles were torched and public property was vandalized. In Muzaffarnagar, one Amrish, a resident of Bhopa area, was killed while one injured succumbed in Meerut. A shopkeeper was shot in the neck in Hapur. 
 
 DGP headquarters got reports of sporadic violence from Hathras, Saharanpur, Shamli and Bulandshahr. While central UP saw peaceful protests, violence was reported from some east UP districts.
 
 In Azamgarh, protesters torched two UPSRTC buses and damaged many others, including Indo-Nepal Maitri bus at Jiyanpur area on Azamgarh-Gorakhpur highway. Many policemen suffered injuries in the bid to control the situation. SP Ajay Sahni denied that police opened fire or used tear gas in the district. Fifteen persons were arrested for rioting.
 
 In Allahabad, several groups of dalit protesters closed the busy civil lines area to show their angst. The agitated protesters, mainly students, also stopped a goods train at the Allahabad railway station.
 
 In Varanasi, scores of dalits gathered at the Ambedkar Pratima opposite the district court which led to a massive traffic jam.
 
 In Lucknow, more than 600 dalits gathered at GPO Park to lodge their protests. The group included, lawyers, doctors, businessmen, students and educationists. Protests were also reported in Gorakhpur where some shops and ATMs were vandalised. In Lucknow, 600 dalits staged protest at GPO.
 
 ADG, law and order, Anand Kumar said that violent protestors and people who vitiated atmosphere through social media in five west UP districts were being identified.
 
 DIG, law and order, Praveen Kumar said that probe has been ordered to find out if the violence was planned in advance and identify people responsible for hatching the conspiracy.
 
 
