For a country that has seen a staggering 400 per cent increase in sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) over the last three decades, Indians seem to be inexplicably averse to wearing  . That’s what a 
recent survey conducted by a condom brand revealed. Nearly 95 per cent of  . Minutes after the results of the survey were announced on Monday,   began trending in response, sparking a conversation on why Indian men don’t use condoms. While stand-up comics had a field day, various memes and jokes on the topic began to pour in as many users went on to state why they don’t use condoms. And the reasons stated ranged from “Feel nahi aati” to “Many of us feel shy while buying condoms at medical store”. 
 
 
 
 Many of the netizens said that the main reason for refraining from using condoms was because it “kills the mood” ’cos “Feel nahi aati hai”. Many women too agreed. “Kills the mood: Men often resent the simple act of reaching for a condom and taking less than a minute to slide it on. As ridiculous as it sounds, this kills the mood for women, too,” a user commented. 
 Some opined that they don’t like to feel the rubber while making love and that it’s putting off. “Could kill the erection: This is an extremely unfortunate circumstance for those ladies who happen to have a nervous lover. (sic),” another user said. 
 
 
 
 Despite aggressive campaigns held to create awareness about the importance of condoms, there continues to be a stigma around purchasing condoms. Many Indian men and women are extremely conscious about buying condoms at a store and often wonder about the perception it will create. Several users stated this as one of the primary reasons for not wearing condoms. “Many of us feel shy while buying condoms at medical store, any solution for it?? (sic),” a netizen asked. 
 Some of them advised the government to come up with vending machines to tackle this stigma, so that men don’t have to go to a store to buy condoms. “1 recommendation — Y’all should have automatic boxes like atm at every 2km (at least in a metro city). People can just put in the cash and take the condom. Many people are shy of interacting with the chemist. (sic),” a user suggested.
