CHENNAI: When the Tamil Nadu men's team gathered in December ahead of the 68th Senior National Basketball Championship, newly-appointed coach   had delivered a stern message: "What you all are playing is not basketball."

 A month later, the Serbian's message seems to have had the right effect. Tamil Nadu have won their 10th national title after beating Services 94-86 in the final at Nehru Indoor Stadium here on Wednesday. In the women's final, Indian Railways beat Chhattisgarh 100-71.
 
 As TN coach Opacic explains, the intention when he took over was to inculcate discipline amongst the players and change the way they practise. "When I told them that they are not playing basketball, what I meant was that they needed to be more disciplined and train in a different method. Obviously, I cannot change everything in a short time. I wanted to make gradual tweaks," he said.
 
 The results have been there for all to see. After going unbeaten in the group stages, the hosts notched up deserved victories in the quarterfinal and semifinal before getting the better of Services.
 
 As was expected in the final, there was little breathing space for TN. The Services players were accurate with their shooting and piled the pressure on TN from the outset. In fact, they took a slender 22-20 lead at the end of the first quarter, one of the rare times that TN have been behind in this tournament. To complicate matters further, TN star   committed three fouls very early in the second quarter, forcing the hosts to be extra cautious. But their resilience shone through yet again as they delivered in the big moments to take home the title. The loss must be hard to take for the likes of   (23 points) and   (20 points), who did their best for the Services.
 
 
  
 
 For the Indian Railways women, it was their 28th national title in the last 32 years. For Chhattisgarh, it was imperative for the imposing 6'11" Poonam Chaturvedi to have a major impact, but she was nullified on the big day. She was marked most effectively by the experienced  , who came into the starting five in place of the injured R Rajapriyadarshini. Yet, the fact that Poonam was the top-scorer for Chhattisgarh with 27 points illustrated her ability.
 
 "We obviously had a specific plan for Poonam. She is so tall and always a big threat. We marked Poonam from the defence court and made it difficult for her to get involved in the game," Railways coach   said.
 
 Despite Railways' superiority from the early stages, Chhattisgarh were only 33-43 down at half-time and had a chance of fighting back. In the third quarter, though, Railways opened up a big 23-point lead in the third quarter that effectively sealed the tie in their favour.
 
