NAVI MUMBAI: After facing flak from various quarters for unprecedented delay in providing the direct connectivity between   township and   on the Mumbai-bound carriageway ever since the Rs 1, 230 crore SP Highway renovation project got over in 2015,   has finally kicked off construction of a 4.5 meter wide single lane road underneath Kamothe flyover on war-footing that will help the motorists travel towards Mumbai sans hassles unlike previously.

 Motorists can get onto the SP Highway while coming out of Kamothe node to further travel to Navi Mumbai, Thane and Mumbai directly in the next three months, by June end since the work was halted for over four years. Remaining two lanes will be completed in a year time as environment clearance is awaited from forest department for which PWD has submitted fresh application with detailed proposal of the road. 
 
 “We took up the matter to Mantralaya and met concerned ministers and officials to kick off the work. Finally, PWD has commenced work on one lane which will allow motorists coming out of Kamothe to travel to Mumbai side,” said  , a member of Citizens Unity Forum, Kamote.
 
 Kamothe residents are struggling for four years to find direct access to SP Highway and take a detour of almost 2 km towards   before taking U-turn to get onto Mumbai-bound carriageway since the direct link is missing. Various citizens groups and political parties campaigned for the link after 60 people lost their lives here in the last four years.
 
 “The project to provide the link between Kamothe and SP Highway is pegged at Rs 9 crore in which three lanes have been included. Out of which we have started work on one lane of 4.5 meter width which is not coming under mangrove area and will come up on the existing road. By June end we will complete the lane to pave way for motorists. Remaining two lanes require environmental clearance for which we have set a deadline for one year,” said Satish Algur, PWD deputy engineer.
 
 Even as the Rs 1, 230 crore 10-lanning Sion-Panvel highway widening project opened for motorists four years ago, Kamothe node, which has a population of over 2 lakh, is still deprived of direct access to S P road along Mumbai bound carriageway since a 400 meter patch of the road beneath flyover has been blocked due to non-completion of the road widening work on a creek culvert.
 
 The delay was attributed to a long standing hurdle in obtaining environmental clearance. The road beneath Kamothe flyover has been blocked where 3 lane corridor has been designed. The 40 feet long culvert work has been left unfinished half way. The work has been delayed, owing to CRZ issue eating up mangroves on a portion of 400 meters for which PWD has sought permission
 
 
