Ludhiana: More than 2,6 lakh students and teachers were made aware about the income during the awareness campaign in the ‘Tax Tree 2’ initiative and a sapling with this name was planted in every school visited by the department’s officials.

 Speaking to media here on Friday, the Chief commissioner of income tax (CCIT) Binay K Jha said that under this initiative the department had initially planned to cover 700 schools out of which 463 were covered on the first day alone. Encouraged by the enthusiastic response, the department now plans to cover all 2,900 schools in the next phases. 
 
 On May 3, the tax awareness programme was carried out in 463 schools of Ludhiana during which 2,50,221 students and 12,471 teachers took the ‘Swacch Bharat Swacch Dhan’ oath along with officials of the department. Under the initiative, 261 government schools and 202 private schools were covered in a span of just over six hours from 8am to around 2pm. 
 
 All employees of the income tax department visited the schools to convey the message that income tax is vital for building a strong and prosperous India and for securing their own future. Some volunteers from the bar associations had also joined the programme. The aim of this programme was to make the students tax-aware citizens and young ambassadors for honest tax compliance by the society today and responsible tax payers of tomorrow.”
 
 Jha also said, “In keeping with the green plastic initiatives of the department, the entire programme was managed and operated on almost paperless basis on the website www.apnakar.com through a central control room from our office. Pictures and details of the oath taking and tree planting ceremonies were uploaded through a link operated on mobile phones, and compiled on the website.”
 
 Besides a specially designed quiz called tax your mind that has been launched two days ago for the students on the apnakar.com and has already become popular with students. The quiz, apart from providing information about income tax in India, is a fascinating insight into interesting facts about tax across the world. Commendation certificates from the department saying “I am a tax-aware citizen” are being awarded to the students who have already logged in to the quiz on the very first day.
 
 
