CHARMINAR: The historical   (arch), that stands as an epitome of a glorious past is currently falling prey to apathy.

 Just six years after its restoration by the state archaeology department, the gateway to the famous   is muddled with posters and advertisements of political events or local services.
 
 The 250-year-old arch looks shabbier than ever with paint peeling off the structure and one of the pillar almost falling apart. "One of the pillars looks like it might fall any time. A portion of the kaman has been vandalized and the iron rods in one of its supporting pillars stand exposed with the concrete plaster falling off,"  , a paan shop owner near the kaman said.
 
 
  
 
 "Even though iron girders have been placed on either sides of the heritage structure to restrict the entry of heavy vehicles, we see that a few trolleys and other big vehicles just ram into it, especially during nights," Abbas said. In the recent times, it has been reduced to a mere insignificant gateway being utilised as any other roadside wall.
 
 "The kaman is really not being given the respect it deserves. Pedestrians and commuters spit gutka or paan through the barricades of the arch, paying no attention to the historic significance, said a constable who has been posted in the area about six months ago.
 
 Another resident of Moula Ali, Mohammad Basha laments that the structure had witnessed much damage to its architecture in the earlier times, but now its identity is at stake with only a handful of people knowing its glorious past. "Earlier, the pilgrims and devotees who visited the famous   Dargah on top of a hill would first halt at the kaman and remember the supreme power and only then proceed further. Therefore, protecting a monument of such prominence should be one of our priorities," Basha said.
 
  department director   said, "We will have a look into it. But it is the property of the society, so the society should be equally responsible towards its own heritage. It is very unfortunate that we expect the government to repair it and then we allow it to disintegrate".
 
 "This is really heartening but we will definitely take care," she added.
 
 
