SURAT: Textile traders, yarn dealers and power loom weavers may rue the fact that their key demands are yet to be resolved by the Goods and Service Tax (GST)   and the central government under GST, but majority of them are happy that   has forced them to introduce a   which is good for a healthy business environment. 

 Yarn dealers have stopped fresh deliveries of goods to power loom weavers because they are yet to settle outstanding payment. Most of the yarn dealers and fabrics traders have set payment terms where those paying within seven days of goods delivery are given one per cent discount on the total bill amount, whereas there are interest penalties of up to 18 per cent on late payments. 
 
 Yarn dealer Rajesh Surana told TOI, “Pre-GST, we would give payment credits for 30 and 60 days. We would not dare ask for payment from weavers, even if they fail to pay on the promised date. Post-GST, weavers pay us cheque against yarn delivery. For those paying in cash, we pay one per cent discount on total bill. For those not paying on time, we impose 18 per cent interest on late payments.”
 
 Surana added, “The new taxation system has definitely impacted the textile business, but it has helped us to introduce new payment norms as well. However, the trade is going to face major difficulties when the national e-way bill is implemented from April 1.”
 
 Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s (SGCCI) textile committee chairman Devkishan   said, “Post-GST, the fly-by-night operators have literally packed their bags. Because, you can’t do business with those who are not registered under GST. Earlier, anyone was doing business with everyone. Now, the business is restricted to those who are registered players.”
 
 Manghani added, “The launch of national e-way bill is going to impact the industry from April 1 onwards. The GST portal is not working properly and the trade is experiencing difficulties even in filing returns, forget about generating e-way bills. Without e-way bills, you won’t be able to send your finished fabrics to other states. Also, trade fears return of inspector raj as GST officials will unnecessarily harass transporters and traders.”
 
  president Ashish Gujarati said, “Only two things work post-GST. Either the trader pays in cash or cheque. There is no space for credit in business now. The payment issues have been resolved, but most of our demands related to GST with the government are still pending.”
 
 
