PIMPRI CHINCHWAD:: A man and his mother were injured after they panicked on spotting a   and fell off the motorcycle they were riding in Hivre Khurd in Junnar taluka on Tuesday night. The villagers claimed the leopard had attacked and injured them.

 Rajendra Yande, a local school teacher said, "Prasad Kawade (20) and his mother Surekha Kawade were going on a bike on Ozhar-Ottur road from their village Hivre Khurd at 7.30 to 7.45 am when the incident occurred near a stream in Yande."
 
 Speaking to TOI on Wednesday, YP Mohite, assistant conservator, Junnar said, “As per the information received, a leopard was walking on a road in the village and a man and his mother who were riding the motorcycle arrived at the spot at the same time. They panicked on seeing the leopard and fell off the motorcycle. The cat went away without attacking the people. Both sustained minor injuries due to the fall.”
 
 Jayant Pisal, range officer, Junnar, forest department said, “Our team visited the village after receiving the news of the leopard attack. We will be installing one cage in the village as the villagers have demanded.”
 
 Ajay Deshmukh, senior   veterinary officer, Wildlife SOS, that runs the leopard rescue and rehabilitation centre at Manikdoh, said, “The incident occurred between 9 and 9.30pm on Tuesday night and the bike riders were injured as they fell off the motorcycle on seeing the leopard.” 
 
 He said leopards are present in Junnar taluka so people must take precautionary measures to protect themselves. “The villagers going to water their farms must take a torch and a stick with them, play songs on their cellphones loudly so that the leopards moving in adjacent area do not venture out. A leopard is a shy animal and does not attack humans of its own.”
 
 On April 14, Mahendra Waman, a farmer, and his wife could not believe their eyes nor contain their fear when they noticed a leopard emerging from the woods and chasing their motorcycle along the Wadgaon Anand to Kalewadi road at Pimpalwandi in Junnar taluka. They sped away. 
 
 
