GANDHINAGAR: The   government is all set to come out with a new water recycling policy where civic agencies of its big cities and class A municipalities (having population of more than one lakh) will be required to reuse every drop of treated water. 
 
 Speaking about the plan, state chief minister   told TOI that not a drop of treated sewage water (from sewage treatment plant) will be discharged into drains. The treated water will instead be used by industries, agriculture, power plants and construction agencies.
 
 “We’ll come out with the new water recycling policy, keeping our future requirement of water in mind. This along with two other measures - setting up desalination plants in coastal areas and desilting of ponds under ogoing ‘Sujalam Sufalam’ programme - will go a long way in making water available to everyone in a sustainable manner”, said Rupani on Thursday. 
 
 
 The water recycling policy will be implemented in the state’s eight municipal corporations —Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara,  , Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Junagadh and   - and most of its Class A municipalities such as Anand, Vapi, Valsad, Navsari, Patan, Palanpur, Bharuch and  . 
 
 “We’ll make it clear that such treated water will not be used for drinking purpose. Use of treated water for other purposes will not only save the groundwater but also ease the pressure on Narmada river water,” said the chief minister while sharing details of measures taken by the government to make the state drought proof.
 
 Under the‘Sujalam Sufalam’ programme, the state had on its foundation day on May 1 launched a massive month-long desilting drive to increase storage capacities of its existing ponds across Gujarat. Besides involving local communities, cooperatives and Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs), the government has also roped in big companies like L&T and   to do the desilting works. In order to attract private companies towards water conservation works, the state allowed them to use soil for construction works - a model which encouraged them to take up the desilting exercises at their own cost. The desilted (fertile) top soil is however being given to villagers free of cost to use in their farms. 
 
 TOI visited different sites in villages of Gandhinagar districts where desilting and digging up of existing ponds were going on in full pace to meet the deadline of May 31.
 
 Rupani said the state would increase 11 lakh cubic feet of water storage capacity after completion of the ongoing works before the onset of monsoon.
 
 Officials, monitoring works on the sites, said the prediction of good monsoon rainfall prompted the government to quickly devise its plan and set a deadline to complete it so that these ponds could store rain water during the June-September period.
 
 Besides desilting of ponds, the state machinery has also been engaged in river rejuvenation programme with an objective of recharging ground water and maintaining flow of water in drying streams. At present, the state agencies have been working on 9.5 km stretch of Khari river, covering 3,537 hectares of catchment area. 
 
 A total of 36 tributaries have been identified for this purpose. The projects, including construction of check dams, check walls and ground water recharging structures, will be carried out under MGNREGA.
 
 
 
 
