On Wednesday, it wasn't just the Union Textiles Minister   who was on a campus visit, but also  , MP for Thiruvananthapuram. The politician-author, who's also an alumnus of St Stephen's College, visited   – every Stephanian's old rival – for a session. Tharoor was invited to speak at Mushaira, the literature festival of Hindu College which was organized jointly by DU Beat and  . As he entered the college's auditorium, Tharoor was reminded of the old rivalry between the two colleges. "I am delighted to be ba
ck at  , my alma mater. Though obviously, this college wasn't my alma mater. For people like me, you were like the people across the road," he told the audience as they replied with a collective "Ohhh!"
 
 
  
  Shashi Tharoor at his session at Hindu College
 
 
 Tharoor, a proud Stephenian, used to regard Hindu as just a 'college across the road'. As his session on Creating Change initiated, Tharoor began by talking about his good old college days. "I am actually amused because this is my second visit to this auditorium in the last two years and people have begun to ask me, 'What happened to you? How does a Stephenian keep coming back to Hindu College?' One of the reasons is obviously that your students invited me, but I was also very pleased to hear something one of them said to me. I should have asked his name. As we were walking here, he said very sensibly, 'Both St Stephen's and Hindu have outgrown the old rivalry.' And I was very impressed because when I was in college, we used to say things like, 'Why can't Hindu College have an orchestra?' and the answer to that was, 'Because they only know how to play the second fiddle!' 'What does Hindu College have that St Stephen's doesn't? 'Good neighbours!' I can see that you all have outgrown it but it was a different time back then," he told the students at Hindu College.
 
 
  
  
 
 Tharoor went on to talk about how his years in DU have had a lasting effect on his life. "It was a great time in DU. I came to the university just a couple of months after I turned 16, and left it shortly after my 19th. It is an age when all experiences have a lasting effect and I must say that in my entire life on campus, the classrooms were arguably the least important aspect. I shouldn't say that in front of your principal, but the extra curricular activities, from reviving The Wodehouse Society to starting the Quiz Club and acting in plays in the Shakespeare society – I remember playing Mark Antony to  's Cleopatra, except that we did not borrow actors from your college, we took them from Miranda House – all these memories come flooding back as I drove back to this campus. The presence of diversity in DU, the presence of classmates, and friends and juniors from every corner of the country to every religion and language, this has given me my profound faith in India. You embody the best variety that our country is all about," he said.
 
  
  
 
 
  
  Students cheer and share a laugh during Shashi Tharoor's session 
 
  
  
 
 As Tharoor moved towards the topic of discussion, he talked about a survey conducted among Indians jointly by the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies, Konrad Adenauer Stiftung and Lokniti. "According to the survey, it was found that India’s youth is conservative. Why? Because only 25% of the youth approve of homosexual relationships, 36% disapprove of inter-caste marriages, 45% disapprove of inter-religion marriages and 67% disapprove of live-in relationships. I thought, maybe they answered these because this is what their parents would have wanted them to answer, but maybe not. People do believe in these things, some more interesting insights that the survey gave was that 60% of the youth wants films that hurt the religious sentiment to be banned, while 23% of the youth said no film should be banned, and 18% had no opinion," Tharoor pointed out.
 
 
  
  Anju Srivastava, acting principal of Hindu College
 
 
 
 The students had selected some questions from the audience to ask the politician. One of the questions that was asked to him was, 'What do you think of Rahul Gandhi?' to which Tharoor replied, "He is an extremely interesting guy, I mean it. He has tremendous intellectual curiosity and he is extraordinarily well-read. I remember during this Jaipur Chintan Shivir in 2013 when he was named the vice- president of the party, I was sitting next to him at lunch while all this political chatter was going on. He had just come back the previous week after having lunch with Nassim Nicholas Taleb, the inventor of the Black Swan theory, who had just come up with a new book at that time, and Rahul ji was all about the author’s new book, explaining and arguing his and the author’s points. That's the kind of person he is. Sadly, the rest of the country hasn't seen this."
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
