NEW DELHI: Days after being named in an FIR by the Central Bureau of Investigation ( ), two independent directors on the   board,   and  , have stepped down from their post, saying part-time board members only played a limited role in the overall process.

 
 "The proposals are recommended by the management and discussed in the executive committee of the board and the minutes are placed before the entire board. Part-time independent director (PIDs) use their judgement based on the information/inputs in the agenda and submission/presentation made by the management. I am anguished that PIDs are being treated at par with the management of the bank and are being held responsible for commercial decisions," Karpe wrote in his resignation letter.
 
 Ravi, who is chairman of the   (BSE), also made similar points in his resignation letter. "As in the case of any independent director, I have relied on the papers presented in meetings and business judgement of the management team, which makes presentations in these meetings. In fact, the Companies Act, 2013, schedule IV, II.1 describes the roles and functions of a part-time independent director as… It is clear that independent directors do not run the bank and hence the recent turn of events is contrary to this wellaccepted doctrine," he said in the letter.
 
 With several insolvency related cases to be decided by bank boards, sources said, several independent directors were having second thoughts about continuing.
 
 A few weeks ago, CBI had named independent directors, along with two former   Bank chiefs - M S Raghavan and K P Kharat (currently Indian Bank MD) - and senior executives including M O Rego (currently Syndicate Bank MD) in a case involving loans to companies owned by C Sivasankaran.
 
 This is the latest dent to IDBI Bank's image, which has been grappling with losses for several quarters, and the government has also not gone ahead with the planned restructuring. In between, Kharat was moved out of the bank and former CMD Yogesh Agarwal and other top executives such as ex-deputy MD S K Batra were arrested in cases related to loans extended to now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines, whose promoter Vijay Mallya has fled the country.
 
