CHANDIGARH: The popular   of Sector 11 near the outpatient department gate of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research ( ) has started to become a sea of cars and scooters.

 The arterial road between   and Sector 11 is choked with these cars and two-wheelers parked on both sides. All the traffic is sandwiched between these rows of vehicles. The overwhelming number of inbound vehicles has made crossing this section extremely difficult. The traffic density is always high because of the rush of patients and their families to the  . “From any part of the road, you can see much further ahead because a jumble of cars blocks your vision.” said Abhinav Sharma, a visitor to the market.
 
 The parking lot of the market has become a clogged mess, with light vehicles and scooters. Several customers and hospital visitors park their cars haphazardly at just about everywhere in the lot, even near the exit, and all the other drivers get trapped. “My car was stuck in this mess for hours," said Gurdeep, a visitor. “People have no parking sense, they are forever in a hurry, so they park their cars wherever they like. It is difficult to navigate this stretch.”
 
 A few visitors said they have stopped coming to this market between 10am and 4pm. If they have to, they come with a friend or a member of the family, who will sit in the car and wait, while they run errands. This is to prevent the traffic police from towing away the car. “The problem is this place received a high volume of traffic all day because of being near the PGI’s OPD. Many times, the visitors from nearby towns, who do not wish to pay the parking fee at the OPD, leave their cars at the market around 6am, blocking the space for the rest of the day,” said  , a passerby.
 
 A mini food street on the pavement next to the Verka milk booth has compounded the problem. It has added so much to the crowd that people have now started parking on the   campus next to the market. No cop was found inside a police beat box near the pavement. A response from superintendent of police (traffic) Shashank Anand is awaited and will be included as soon as he replies. 
 
 
