LUCKNOW: The death of BJP MP Bandaru Dattatreya’s 21-year-old son   recently due to a sudden cardiac arrest has sparked concern over the risk of   in young Indians.

 
 Different studies show that prevalence of coronary artery disease (CAD) is the most common cause of mortality in the world.
 
 In 2014, an assessment by the cardiology department of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences showed that every fifth person in the city faces the risk of a heart attack.
 
 Keeping the city’s current population of 34 lakh in mind, one can say that close to 7 lakh Lucknowites face risk of cardiac disease across all ages.
 
 “We believe that about 12% of the population under risk is below 40 which means that over 60,000 young people are carrying the risk of a cardiac arrest at any point of time the way Vaishnav did,” said Prof Satyendra Tiwari from SGPGIMS. He is also the vice-president of the  .
 
 In 2017, Prof Tiwari and his team had studied 2,000 cardiac arrest cases of people aged below 45 years. They found that high levels of stress—both physical and mental—were noted in more than 65% of the subjects, all of whom had been admitted in SGPGI over the year. The young patients admitted that they spent long hours at work, ate unhealthy, consumed alcohol and smoked cigarettes.
 
 “A majority of the subjects, including managers, bankers and engineers, were unstoppable till their flight was abruptly halted by a cardiac event. Our work showed that the young were risking their life by ignoring risk factors like smoking, sedentary life and lack of exercise to rise in their careers,” he said.
 
 Another study, conducted by King George’s Medical University’s Dr Monika Bhandari in 2017, noted that 25% of all heart attack deaths in India were of people below 40 years of age. Smoking, bad cholesterol and being overweight were causes that contributed to the risk.
 
 The head of cardiovascular and thoracic surgery department at SGPGIMS, Prof   said that the majority of heart attack victims die only because they reach the hospital after the golden hour—one hour after the onset of an attack.
 
 “If aspirin and sorbitrate are given within a few minutes of the onset of symptoms, the rate of heart/brain damage due to the attack gets retarded,” he explained adding, “the medicines stretch the golden period by threefour hours which can save life and reduce the damage,” said Prof Gupta.
 
 According to researches, Indian patients take an average of six hours to reach the hospital from the time of start of symptoms, leading to poor outcomes and higher death rate.
 
