PUNE: Agitating students of the English department at Savitribai Phule Pune University have withdrawn their hunger strike. Vice-chancellor   agreed to look into their demands and find a solution. 

 The students had objected to a teacher taking up LGBT subject, saying that it was not taught well. Accordingly, the vice-chancellor has postponed the subject exam to May while a replacement teacher was provided. Other demands of the students would also be taken up by officials of  , Karmalkar said.
 
 The students have been on a hunger strike for four days over their demands. The SPPU sent a delegation of two officials on Friday to speak with the protesting students. 
 
 Karmalkar said the examination schedule was announced on April 4, almost three weeks ahead, but the students decided to object to the schedule on April 24, three days before start of exam, seeking a postponement. 
 
 “Our officials visited the protesting students on April 26 and discussed that the exams could be possibly postponed by one week and the subjects in question which the students were not satisfied could be retaught and the exam for the subject can be taken separately. However, the students did not respond to this proposal and the examination was started on April 27 as per schedule,” he added.
 
 The students were asked to meet the vice-chancellor on April 27 morning for a discussion. Their representatives then met him when they demanded that the English department head should be changed. Karmalkar said, “The process to change the HOD will be followed and appropriate steps will be taken.”
 
 On Saturday, the students finally gave in to the assurances he made on their demands and called off the hunger strike. Karmalkar said, “The officiating HoD was also released from duty after he made a request to the office. The responsibility was handed over to the education and extension department head Sanjeev  .”
 
 The VC has now directed Sonawane and pro-vice-chancellor N S Umrani to take up the issues of the English department students on priority and suggest solutions. 
 
 The university statement released on Saturday evening said the exam schedule would continue as decided.
 
 
