PUNE:   had a plethora of female fans when he ruled the box office in the 70s and 80s and was known for a new style of acting on the silver screen. But the man himself holds a surprisingly low opinion about that era. 

 "Let me tell you all something. In the first 20 years of my acting life, I did not do any acting. All I did was to wear a jersey, dance, lip-sync to songs and run after girls over mountains and in the snow," Rishi said, leaving the crowd in laughter on Saturday. "But these days, I get the challenging roles, where I actually get to act. They often test my patience, but it's worth it," he said, giving the example of the family patriarch role he played in the 2016 film 'Kapoor and Sons'.
 
 Rishi and Jabbar Patel, the director of the Pune International Film Festival (PIFF), were speaking in the PIFF   session on the acting legacy of  , Rishi's legendary father, and what the Kapoor family, including Rishi's son Ranbir, carried on to this day. Rishi won the national award at the age of 15 for 'Mera Naam Joker', and he narrated how his grandfather, Prithviraj, reacted to his award.
 
 "I showed my father the plaque I received at the national awards for the best child artist. He told me to go and show it to my grandfather and seek his blessings. My grandfather touched the plaque on his forehead and he had tears in his eyes. And he said, ' Raj ne to mera karzaa utaar diya'. I did not understand back then what those words meant. But I know for sure now," he said, to applause from the morning crowd. 
 
 Though generations of the same family have been in the acting profession, Rishi would not accept that nepotism has been a factor in that.
 
 "In the 105 years of Indian cinema, the Kapoor family has been contributing to 90 of them, starting with  . A lot of people have raised the nepotism question. The reality is that some Kapoors did reach the marquee, others did not. As is the case with politicians, actors are chosen by people. For example, I was a part of 'Bobby' (directed by Raj) almost by default, because my father actually wanted to make a teenage love story, and he wanted someone like me - a young adult," he said, responding to a question from Patel. 
 
 'Bobby' was Rishi's first film as an adult, and it came with its share of enthusiasm, discoveries, and some of his father's quirks and demands.
 
 "In our time, getting to lip-sync a song on the screen was a big high for an actor. The first song I ever did on screen was ' Main Shaayar To Nahi'. But I found there was no choreographer on the set. I asked my father about that. He told me to enact the song in my own way and improvise. ' Apni chhaap banaao!', he thundered at me. Later, I realised that if a choreographer was there, I would be accused of copying people," he said. 
 
 On another occasion, he remembered his father's respect and admiration for even his competitors. "I was doing a scene, where I had to simply look at someone. But my father kept on insisting, " Mujhe Yusuf chahiye", meaning that my expressions had to be on a par with those of  ." 
 
 Back to the present, he praised the "focus" that young actors have, including his son Ranbir, who have gone to great lengths to improve their acting skills, across many schools of acting. But about the film industry in general, he is less than pleased.
 
 "I do not understand the music or lyrics these days in films. In our time, songs used to carry the film forward. Ideally, songs should be interwoven with the script. I cannot get the lyrics at all, and most of the tunes are trash," Rishi could barely contain his scorn.
 
 As he signed off, he lamented that small films were "getting murdered".
 
 "Theatres are being carpet-bombed by big producers for their films. They are taking up as many shows as possible. There are too many films anyway, and then comes the content in films. And that is how small films are getting murdered, because they are not getting the screens that they need," said Kapoor, before being thronged by phone cameras and books.
 
 
