KOLKATA: Over 100kg   was seized and destroyed as a KMC team on Thursday raided a number of restaurants and   around New Market. They also collected meat samples from a popular restaurant chain and several eateries in and around Chowringhee to be sent to state forensic laboratory for test. Another team of KMC food inspectors, accompanied by enforcement directorate officers, searched restaurants at Beliaghata and collected samples of both chicken and mutton from there.

 
 The KMC headquarters officials —70 of them—comprising health and solid waste management officials conducted the surprise raids around noon. Led by Atin Ghosh, MMiC overseeing the KMC health department, a team first swooped down on Lindsay Street, where they collected chicken samples from a well-known fast food chain. After that, they seized meats from several restaurants and roadside eateries at New Market and Dharmatala. On examination, KMC food inspectors found some of the meat to be stale and that spurious colours were added; they destroyed those.
 
 “In the wake of a public health threat, our raids will continue across the city. We will collect meat samples and send a portion of them to the state forensic laboratory and another portion to private labs as the state lab takes time to finish examination,” Ghosh said. The MMiC claimed their drive was taking a back seat due to non-cooperation from police.
 
 In Howrah, the civic body there, along with the Howrah district health department and the Howrah City Police, raided eateries near the Howrah station and seized 70 kg meat and some fish, which reportedly had fungal contamination. Bhaskar Bhattacharya, MMiC, health,  , even claimed there could be carcass meat. “Hotel owners admitted the meat and fish we seized had been kept frozen for 20-25 days. We will send the samples to the state forensic laboratory and some to the state food laboratory,” he said. But denying the charge, owner of a well-known restaurant on the station premises, said, “We don’t store or serve carcass meat. We had frozen chicken and mutton but we didn’t realize they had been contaminated with fungus.”
 
 Back in city, BJP and   members staged a protest against the KMC’s alleged failure to stop the meat scam.
 
 (With inputs from Rupak Banerjee in Howrah)
 
