CHANDIGARH: Audit department has slammed the   ( ) for causing loss to the state exchequer due to delay in fabrication of buses.

 The report compiled last month for the financial year 2016-17 stated that due to the CTU the state exchequer incurred a loss of Rs 2.85 crore.
 
 The scrutiny of records revealed that a total of 246 buses were declared unfit between 2011 and 2016. As per the norms, a bus has a life span of 8 year. The CTU in August 2016 mooted a proposal for purchasing as many as 200 buses to replace the unfit lot in a phase-wise manner. It purchased chassis of 40 buses from   in March 2017.
 
 The report said that for the fabrication of buses, the CTU opted to float a tender. “This was done despite knowing that the tender process takes a lot of time and chassis cannot be held back for long period as their condition deteriorate over time,” the report said.
 
 “Despite Haryana Roadways Engineering Corporation (HREC), a government organisation, quoting Rs 7 lakh, including VAT at the rate of 13.25% per bus for fabrication, the CTU opted to float a tender, which took three months. The contract was finally given to a Jaipur-based firm on June 16, 2017 with a deadline of delivering 40 buses within a period of 90 days,” it added.
 
 The report observed that the firm failed to deliver the buses in time and the buses were pressed into inter-state services on October 16, 2017 without final inspection, which was a glaring irregularity on the part of the CTU.
 
 On being pointed out by the audit department, the CTU maintained that they opted for the tender process only after the finance department refused to give permission to get the buses fabricated from the HREC.
 
 Terming the reply of the CTU as untenable, the audit report stated that it showed lukewarm approach in getting the buses fabricated as it made no efforts to convince the finance department about the actual position.
 
 As per the official record, average collection of one bus per month is Rs 28,016 and average salary of a driver is around Rs 30,000. The report observed that the delay in fabrication of the buses led to a loss of Rs 2.85 crore.
 
 The report also pointed out irregular engagement of regular staff for buses under   National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) scheme. 
 
 As per the guidelines of the scheme, the CTU had to employee conductors and drivers on contract basis by forming a society. Against the norms, the CTU employed regular conductors and drivers and paid excess salary of Rs 77 lakh.
 
 
