BATHINDA: Renowned Pakistani playwright and peace activist   died after a prolonged battle with cancer in Lahore on Wednesday morning. She was 62. Known for her commitment to theatre for social change and promoting peace between Pakistan and India, she regularly collaborated with Indian artists. 

 Saddened by her demise, theatre actors and playwrights in India claimed it will cause an irreparable loss to peace initiatives and theatre movement, which was working like a bridge between the two neighbouring countries. Recalling her love for India, they said that long back she had joined hands with Indian playwrights in holding joint a theatre festival - Panj Paani. It was held in Amritsar and Lahore in 2006.
 
 When her play 'Burqa Vaganza', against sexual discrimination in Pakistan, was banned after a couple of performances in Lahore in 2007, Madeeha announced to stage it in   and dared the regime to arrest her. It was translated in many languages, including English, remembers Amritsar-based playwright  , who had a long association with Madeeha and treated her as his sister. Her play was called as 'theatre against Taliban', he said.
 
 An MA in English literature, Madeeha had founded Ajoka theatre group to promote alternate theatre in 1983. However, she developed differences with some members of the group on staging plays only in Punjabi as Madeeha wanted these to be in Urdu as well. She had formed another group theatre 'Punjab Lok Rahs' in 1986.
 
 Madeeha staged popular plays like 'Bulla' and 'Mera Rang de Basanti Chola'. "Despite my differences with her on the issue of language, I always admired her plays and feel her demise is a big loss to alternative theatre in Pakistan," noted playwright Lakht Pasha told TOI.
 
 Dhaliwal, who first met Madeeha nearly 25 years ago, said, "She always saw theatre as the biggest medium to go near people and play a role in softening differences between the neighbouring countries. She prevailed upon playwrights in India, including me, to collaborate and jointly hold shows. We had jointly directed plays 'Peero Preman' and 'Kabira Khara Bazaar' and many more. She used to visit us more often and stay here in June. Last time when she visited India in 2017, we took her to visit the Partition Museum. On seeing the museum, Madeeha was so emotional that we planned to jointly document scars of the biggest migration in world history," he said.
 
 At the museum, Madeeha was in tears after learning about the plight of lakhs of people who were uprooted from their homes in 1947. Deeply moved by the misery of people, she was planning a joint festival '70 years of Partition', which will now be dedicated to her by Indian playwrights.
 
 Speaking from Lahore, Pakistani rights activist   said Madeeha always raised her voice on women issues like female literacy and peace among neighbours. "I had met her nearly two weeks ago, when she looked somewhat weak," she said.
 
 Praising Madeeha for raising societal issues through her plays, social activist Shafiq Butt claimed "her loss will be greatly felt by culturally-inclined people in Pakistan". Cultural wing convener of Desh Bhagat Yaadgar Committee Amolak Singh said, "Artists and playwrights will always remember her as a daring person, who spoke on social issues through theatre."
 
 Earlier on February 11, another peace and human rights activist Asma Jahangir had died in Lahore.
 
 
