NAGPUR: Former Chief Election Commissioner TS Krishnamurthy said if there are complaints about snags in electronic voting machines (EVMs), “the matter must be looked into”. “When EVMs were introduced in 2004 we did not even come across 0.01% cases of malfunctioning. Some times, the EVMs do not work due to lack of knowledge of those handling the machines,” he said. 

 
 Krishnamurthy was in the city to chair the inaugural function of a training course for newly promoted assistant commissioners of income tax, at the National Academy of Direct Taxes ( ).
 
 Adding that the EVMs are tested before voting begins, Krishnamurthy said, “It happens in the presence of representatives of political parties in the fray.” He was reacting to charges made by parties after bypoll results were announced on Thursday.
 
 The former   said reverting to ballot papers would be a retrograde step. “The allegations on EVM tampering are made by political parties after defeat and not by the public. Yet, to satisfy the public at large, an independent inquiry of the EVMs must be conducted,” he said. 
 
 The machines are “fool proof” and “tested by the   when it was introduced. “These are quite robust machines and cannot be operated even with a remote control. In fact, it is the pride of India as the machines have been developed here. An American expert has noted that an EVM is a mix of the musical instrument casio and a calculator. We had once challenged parties to come and prove that it can be tampered, but none turned up,” said Krishnamurthy.
 
 The machines are made by two defence PSUs — Bharat Electronic Limited ( ) and   ( ). “The two PSUs are also making the voter-verified paper audit trial (VVPAT) which is to be introduced in all the EVMs,” he said.
 
 Krishnamurthy said returning to the ballot paper system will only be a step backwards and “even that system has its own drawbacks”. “If the government and police collude, the papers can be changed but it cannot happen in the case of an EVM. Paper system will also prolong the election process. A country like Indonesia takes two months to declare the results,” he said.
 
 On the contention that even developed countries do not have EVMs, he said there the population is much lesser than India. “Moreover, in US, which is a federal democracy, each state has its own system of elections from punching machines to even voting on phone,” he said.
 
 Internet voting
 
 TS Krishnamurthy said he had proposed to have Internet-based voting for the handicapped and senior citizens but the idea did not go down well with political parties. “The idea was to let them vote from home. But there were objections that they may be influenced. However, I feel it may not have made much difference and voting may have become easier for them,” he said. 
 
 
