Ghaziabad: Uttar Pradesh minorities’ committee member Kunwar Afzal   was sacked by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday and later arrested in Ghaziabad.

 Chaudhary, a city-based BJP functionary, has been accused of ‘impersonation’ by Ghaziabad police. According to police, Chaudhary is alleged to have been involved in mounting undue pressure on government officials to carry out his errands by misusing his clout as member of the commission.
 
  Vaibhav Krishna told TOI, “Chaudhary was accused of impersonation following which he has been arrested. He used to call senior government officials urging them to carry out his errands and do certain favors to him. He had also called me in the recent past apart from senior officials of the police department, asking us to do certain tasks which are not in accordance with law. 
 
 “It has been alleged that Chaudhary used to take financial gratifications in lieu of the favors he used to extract out of the government by misusing his position as the member of the state minorities commission.”
 
 Chaudhary had been inducted into the state minorities’ commission along on February 6 this year with seven others by the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government. However, according to police sources, complaints about Chaudhary’s misuse of his post began to resurface just days after his appointment.
 
 Chaudhary, the sources said, used a standard modus operandi in order to push through with his demands. He used to call officials, saying he had the backing of several ministers of the BJP government in UP. Sometimes, he also allegedly claimed his recommendations have the sanction of certain ministers of the Yogi cabinet.
 
 Chaudhary was arrested by the crime branch of Ghaziabad police following four days of investigation. Police sources said Chaudhary was suspended by Yogi Adityanath on Thursday on the basis of a four-page report that was sent by Ghaziabad police to the chief minister’s office.
 
 Police have registered a case against Chaudhary in Kavi Nagar police station of Ghaziabad under IPC sections including 420 (cheating), 416 (cheating by impersonation) and 468 (forgery for cheating). Further investigations into Chaudhary’s antecedents are under way.
 
 
