PANAJI: President of   (GPCC)   submitted his resignation from the post on Tuesday as the party’s national president Rahul Gandhi prefers a younger face at the helm in the state.

 “I emailed my resignation on Tuesday. I was so inspired by Rahulji’s speech at the just concluded   plenary session that I wanted to put in my papers there and then. Then I felt I should do it after a couple of days,”   told TOI. The Gandhi scion had favoured younger leaders to taken over bigger responsibilities.
 
 While Shantaram declined from commenting on who the next probable head of the state Congress unit would be, sources said the main contest seems to be between former president of the Youth Congress, Girish Chodankar and high court lawyer, Yatish Naik.
 
 Shantaram, 71, who had taken up the baton from Luizinho Faleiro on July 7, 2017, just before his term as   member came to an end, said during his tenure the party had held organisational polls, but not much could be done as the new managing committees were not notified.
 
 Asked about his criteria for selecting his successor, Naik said any person who has love for and is committed to the party can be the next leader, provided he/she has worked for the party for at least ten years.
 
 Sources in the party said that the much-awaited change in leadership will happen in the next few days and that a younger face is likely to succeed Naik.
 
 Chodankar, who is secretary, All India Congress Committee (AICC), has served the party for nearly three decades. He has served as president of the Youth Congress for two terms and had kept the party flag flying high when it was in the opposition, sources said.
 
 In contrast, Naik, who is the Congress spokesperson, is much younger, and sources said that while he may find favour among MLAs, it will not be a smooth sailing for him considering that he is still perceived by some as a “new entrant”.
 
 Where Yatish is articulate, a good strategist, knows what he wants and is flexible, Chodankar has a better understanding of the party, but he will not be easy to convince if MLAs wants things to be done in a certain way, sources added.
 
 Sankhalp Amonkar, who lost the last assembly election from Mormugao by 140 votes against BJP’s Milind Naik, and former MP   are also in the race. A source said Digambar Kamat’s name was also doing the rounds.
 
 
