Ludhiana: Raising serious questions over security at Central Jail, two undertrials — both brothers — allegedly escaped from the high security prison at Tajpur Road on Sunday night. Jasvir Singh and Harvinder Singh of Rattan Paloon village of Fatehgarh Sahib were arrested in a robbery case, after they had allegedly stolen 120g of jewellery after breaking the lockers of a private bank on Ludhiana-Malerkotla Road in Rasulra village of Khanna on February 23 early this year. They had also taken away the security guard’s rifle. While Jasvir was arrested in the first week of March from near his village, his brother was arrested later.

 Prison officials said jail staff came to know about their escape on Monday morning, when two persons were found missing during the headcount of prisoners. They added that the undertrials did not leave behind any clue of jailbreak. Jail sources said the brothers were last seen near the kitchen area of the prison premises.
 
 Meanwhile, police officials said after getting information about the escape of the two inmates, Ludhiana police swung into action and also alerted Fatehgarh Sahib police. A search operation was also on near their village in Amloh, besides carrying out searches in areas around the Central Jail. They added that additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-4) Rajvir Singh and team from Division No.7 police station also reached the jail premises and carried out a search, but they could not find the prisoners.
 
 Jail officials said a search was conducted in the barracks, jail hospital, and other places, but the two prisoners could not be found. They added that the duo might have planned their escape meticulously, as the prison has a web of CCTVs installed at various strategic points, and cops too are also deployed in good numbers in the prison. IG (Prisons) RK Arora and DIG (Prisons) Lakhvir Jakhar also reached the Central Jail after getting information about the incident. 
 
 Meanwhile, Division No.7 police have booked the accused for the offence. ADCP-4 said they suspected the duo ran away after scaling the jail walls. 
 
 Jail Minister orders probe
 
 The Jail Minister, Punjab, S. Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa taking serious note of the incident of 2 prisoners fleeing from the Central Jail Ludhiana has ordered an enquiry into the incident and directed the IG (Jail) to submit report in 2 days.
 
 In a statement here today, S. Randhawa said that the fleeing of the prisoners from the jail is a very serious matter and such incidents would not be tolerated. He further said that after this incident this morning, he has directed the IG(Jail), DIG Ludhiana Range as well as the Commissioner to visit the spot and take stock of the situation. The minister also said that the responsibility of carrying out a thorough probe into the matter has been entrusted to IG (Jail). The minister made it clear that nobody found guilty would be spared and would be severely proceeded against.
 
 
