Nagpur: Congress president Rahul Gandhi has appointed ex-MLA and former cabinet minister Nitin Raut as the chairman of the Scheduled Caste department of All India Congress Committee (AICC). He succeeds K Raju, a close confidant of Rahul, who has stepped down from the post. Raut is a known dalit face of the party in Maharashtra and has been elected thrice to the state Assembly from Nagpur North constituency. He was was elected in 1999, 2004 and 2009 but lost the election in 2014, hit by the then prevailing Narendra Modi wave in the region. “I am humbled by the trust reposed in me by Rahulji and Soniaji. I will try to fulfil the high expectations and serve the party to the best of my ability,” Raut told TOI over phone from Delhi. The new responsibility will certainly add to Raut’s political profile. It will not be a surprise if he gets candidature to contest Lok Sabha elections from Nagpur or the reserved (SC) seat of Ramtek in the district. In the new role, he is expected to have a say in selection of nominees for the 84 SC reserved Lok Sabha seats across the country, besides directing poll campaign in reserved seats of Parliament as well as state assemblies. His ascension to the crucial post comes at a time when the internal tussle in the Congress’ city unit was at its peak . A month ago, the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee expelled ex-minister and senior leader Satish Chaturvedi for anti-party activity and there was speculation that the axe may fall next on Raut. He was seen to be associated with the Chaturvedi camp that is engaged in fierce faction fight in the city with ex-MP Vilas Muttemwar and his protégé Vikas Thakre. The announcement was greeted by his associates in the city. The letter issued on Tuesday and signed by AICC general secretary Janardhan Dwivedi was widely circulated on social media. “He was sure that Rahulji would give him an important post in the new dispensation,” said Sanjay Dube, his long-time follower. “Party workers are joyous over Raut’s rehabilitation when chips were down. For the last four years, he was deliberately kept away from any responsible post. He was not even sent by the PCC as delegate to the plenary session held in Delhi recently,” said another supporter. “Last year, his appointment as Pradesh returning officer for organisational polls of Delhi unit was cancelled at the last moment,” he added. His friends and well-wishers are preparing to receive him at the airport as soon as he lands from Delhi on Wednesday afternoon.