KOLKATA: A 76-year-old woman was found hanging from the third-floor balcony of a   on Saturday morning, prompting protests by locals who alleged that she was murdered and later hanged there.

  — spotted hanging around 6:30am by the building security guards — had her legs touching the sunshade below and the rope used for hanging was found knotted firmly to the balcony window. A two-line suicide note found at the spot blamed none for her death and asked that her cremation be done properly adhering to all rituals. Police have lodged an unnatural death case and will wait for the post mortem report before acting further.
 
  
  
 
 Police faced the locals’ anger when they reached the spot and brought down the body.  , a schoolteacher, alleged, “Her legs were on the sun-shade. It is unlikely that an elderly woman will scale a three-feet balcony railing and hang herself in this manner. She was murdered and hanged from there.” Tapan Chattopadhyay, a local trader, said, “For an elderly woman, barely able to move around, her death appears mysterious.”
 
 Facing local heat, police took the victim’s son Nilanjan, her daughter-in-law Sujata and college-going granddaughter for questioning to the Dum Dum police station.   reportedly told them that his mother was depressed and was reluctant to stay with them. “Twice before she had left for an old-age home when her son convinced her to return. This morning, Nilanjan said, when he saw her hanging he informed police by dialling 100,” said an officer.
 
 Nilanjan claimed he had moved into the Dum Dum locality on rent barely six months ago hoping the new place will help his mother feel better. But it didn’t. Nilanjan’s sister, who stays at Krishnagore (who requested not to be named), told police exactly what Nilanjan said. She also refused to lodge any complaint. After an interrogation of more than an hour, the family left the police station.
 
 The police also searched the Dutta household for any possible clues. It was during this search the suicide note was recovered. Police, however, didn’t find anything suspicious in her belongings. Locals, however, couldn’t specify any instance when the victim was mistreated by her kin.
 
 Barrackpore police commissioner   said, “The way the victim was found dead has raised several questions. We will wait for the post mortem report. For the moment an unnatural death case has been lodged.” DCP (detective department)   said, “None has lodged any formal complaint. We are investigating the case. The victim had on several occasions in the past publicly expressed her desire to end her life. However, it’s too early to conclude anything.”
 
