Hyderabad: Dreaded falling ill just because you had to pop that bitter pill that would either get stuck in your throat or leave a bitter aftertaste?

 Well you are not alone as many have devised tricks to avoid these unpleasant experiences. And now a Hyderabad-based startup --   Pharmaceuticals -- is trying to find a smart and sustainable solution for this universal problem faced by humankind.
 
 Dheeraj Gorukanti, who is a mechanical engineer from IIT-Madras and did his MBA from Fuqua School of Business at Duke University, US, says he was always keen on “doing something that can create a larger impact” and the sectors he thought he could deliver this in was either the healthcare sector or the education sector.
 
 It was natural for him to zero in on healthcare as he belongs to the family that has set up one of the established healthcare institutions of Hyderabad -- Yashoda Healthcare Services – and therefore has seen the workings of this sector closely. Even as Dheeraj has set up the company, he also continues to be the chief executive officer at Yashoda Group.
 
 Dheeraj quit his cushy MNC job in the US in 2008 and returned to the city to start something on his own. Even as he dabbled with multiple business ideas in the healthcare sector, one of the areas he thought could benefit many people was the area of drug compliance.
 
 As a child, Dheeraj saw his grandmother finding it painful to swallow pills and he too used to find it an uphill task to pop pills. As a grown up, Dheeraj realized that however effective a drug might be, it is of no use it the patient does not take it on time or misses the required dosages. This problem intrigued him and he set up Graviti Pharma in 2013 end to work on technologies that can help in improving drug compliance.
 
 “Suppose you have to take a tablet thrice a day and you are not comfortable. We use a technology called osmotic drug delivery platform – wherein we use a laser drilling technology that works on the tablet, which makes sure that tablet releases the drug slowly...therefore you can take it once in a day and it lasts for a long time. We have incorporated this technology for some of our drugs,” Graviti Pharma managing director Dheeraj Gorukanti says, adding that the startup has applied for patents for specific aspects of the osmotic drug delivery platform. 
 
 And it is not just the technology that makes the drug more palatable, Graviti Pharma is also working in modifying the existing drugs that are off patent and have failed to take off in the market due to side effects.
 
 “There are many such drugs that are effective but have gone off-shelf because of the side effects they caused. We also take those up and work on them to see how we can do away with the side effects while ensuring they remain efficacious,” he says, adding that eventually the company also hopes to innovate new drugs in the future.
 
 Graviti Pharma has been working on 24 drugs belonging to multiple therapeutic areas and has filed for drug approvals with the United States Food and Drug Administration for eight drugs broadly belonging to the area of hypertension and psychiatry. It expects to see some approvals coming through this year.
 
 The startup has already started building its sales team in India and the US, where it expects to launch products by 2018-end. Meanwhile, it has also built a formulations unit at Isnapur outside Hyderabad at an investment of Rs 70 crore. The unit was inspected by USFDA in August last year after which it was granted approval in September. 
 
 
