MUMBAI: Bombay high court has refused relief for a youth who allegedly drove his fiancee to commit suicide by threatening to "expose" on social media that she earlier had a boyfriend. Justice   rejected the application for anticipatory bail filed by   from Khalapur. 

  "It appears there is sufficient material on record to indicate the clear complicity of Kamble in the crime. After taking into consideration the serious allegations against him and the gravity of the offence, he does not deserve to be protected by pre-arrest bail," said Justice Gadkari. 
 
 Days after their engagement, Kamble had allegedly threatened the girl that he would tell all about her former relationship and defame her family in the community. "A bare perusal of the FIR clearly indicates that it is because of Kamble's consistent mental torture that she was left with no alternative than to commit suicide. The FIR will further clearly indicate that on more than one occasion he threatened the deceased (that he would) publish her confession on   and threatened her father of defamation," said the judge.
 
  "It appears that as the deceased could not bear the mental torture caused by the accused and being left with no alternative, she committed suicide," the judge added. 
 
  Under section 306 of the Indian Penal Code, anyone who abets another person to commit suicide can be punished with a jail term of up to 10 years. Kamble and the girl had got engaged on March 11, 2018. The couple used to talk on a mobile phone he had gifted her. On March 24, the girl had told her parents that Kamble had asked her if she had any previous relationship, to which she had replied in the affirmative. Subsequently, he allegedly threatened to make her "confession" he had recorded, public on WhatsApp.
 
  He told her that he would break off the engagement and marry another girl. He then told her to return all gifts he had given her during the engagement and threatened to sue her family. On March 25, when the girl's father went to Kamble's home to return the gifts, he threatened to defame the family. The girl committed suicide by hanging herself that day. 
 
  Kamble's lawyers claimed that he had only confronted the girl about the affair and had decided to break the engagement. The lawyers refuted the allegation that he had instigated her to commit suicide but the court rejected the plea.turn the gifts, he threated to defame the family in the community. The same day the girl committed suicide by hanging herself. 
 
 Kamble's lawyers claimed that he had only confronted the girl about the affair and had decided to break the engagement. 
 
 
