An edge but it rolls away safely and past the ropes for a four. And JP Duminy has reached his 10th fifty off 38 deliveries. SA 173/4

 
 A forgetful match for Yuzvendra Chahal. Apart from leaking 64 runs in his four overs, he also ended up dropping a catch of his own bowling. And he has also bowled the most expensive spell by an Indian bowler in T20Is. The previous was by Joginder Sharma who had leaked 57 runs. Score 156/4
 
 
 Hardik Pandya drops short and David Miller pounces on it but only manages a top-edge with Shardul Thakur taking an easy catch at fine leg. He scored 5. Score 141/4
 
 
 OUT! Jaydev Unadkat ends Heinrich Klassen's blistering knock on 69! An off-cutter from the left-arm pacer and Klassen edges it to the 'keeper. Score 131/3
 
 
 Heinrich Klaasen is unstoppable. Such clean hitting from him as he blasts two straight sixes off Yuzvendra Chahal's first two deliveries followed by a four over third man region. JP Duminy rounds of the over with a biggie of his own. 
 Score 1312
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The over was going well for India with Hardik Pandya allowing six runs from his first five deliveries but Heinrich Klaasen finished it with a four to mid-wicket region. He moves to 31 off 15. Score 80/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 OUT! The DLS par score for South Africa was 41 and with rain in the background, opener Reeza Hendricks ended up hitting it high in the air with score on 38. But it wasn't enough as Hardik Pandya caught him at mid-wicket for 26
  Score 38/2
 
 
 OUT! That's a soft dismissal for JJ Smuts. A leading edge goes to cover-point fielder as Suresh Raina accepts an easy catch. He scored 2. Score 24/1
 
 
 Change of gears by Reeza Hendricks - carves one over backward point for his first four and then lofts one over mid-on for his second boundary. Score 15/0
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MS Dhoni hits a four and a six off Chris Morris to take India to 170/4. Morris has had a forgettable outing after an excellent first over. He ends up leaking 42 runs in his four wicketless overs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Manish Pandey brings up the 100 for India with a four of Junior Dala
 
 
 Loud shout for LBW and umpire raises his finger. India have lost another wicket as Suresh Raina has been adjudged lbw off Andile Phehlukwayo. He scored 30 off 24. Score 90/4 
 
 
 Suresh Raina and Manish Pandey have opened up after seeing off the nervy phase. Manish Pandey has deposited creamed Tabraiz Shamsi for 19 runs to move to 32 off 19. He struck two sixes, one four, a couple and a single off the final delivery. Score 85/3
 
 
 
 
 
 That's a big, big wicket for South Africa as Junior Dala induces an edge from India captain   to be have him caught behind on 1 (5). Score 45/3
 
 
 Shikhar Dhawan is not happy with himself as he ends up hitting a juicy full toss from skipper JP Duminy into the hands of Behardian at mid-on to be caught for 24 off 14. Score 44/2
 
 
 Suresh Raina joins the party! The left-hander has clattered three fours in the first over of Dane Paterson. Score 40/1
 
 
 How fortunes change in a blink in T20s! Chris Morris had troubled Shikhar Dhawan in his first over, bowling a maiden. And in his next, the Indian clobbered him for 20 runs with two sixes and two fours. Score 28/1
 
 
 
 
 
 Rapped on the pads and given! Shikhar Dhawan has been give lbw off the first ball of the match. SA are celebrating but Dhawan will review this. And there's an inside edge. Umpire changes his decision. 
 
 
 
 
 Rohit Sharma, Shikhar Dhawan, Suresh Raina, Virat Kohli (captain), Manish Pandey, MS Dhoni (wicketkeeper), Hardik Pandya, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Jaydev Unadkat, Shardul Thakur, Yuzvendra Chahal
 
 
 JJ Smuts, Reeza Hendricks, Jean-Paul Duminy (captain), David Miller, Farhaan Behardien, Heinrich Klaasen (wicketkeeper), Andile Phehlukwayo, Chris Morris, Dane Paterson, Junior Dala, Tabraiz Shamsi
 
 
 South Africa are playing the same side. India have been forced to make one change - Jasprit Bumrah has been rested, Shardul Thakur takes his place.
 
 
 
 
