Madurai: People will understand the government’s decision to hike the bus fares, which had not been done for the past six years, said minister Sellur K Raju. His counterpart minister R B Udayakumar reiterated his statement at an event of the Madurai corporation in Thirumangalam on Saturday.

 Inaugurating works to the tune of Rs 49.92 lakhs in wards 88, 90 and 91 in zone four of the Madurai corporation, the minister said that the Tamil Nadu government was striving to full fill all the needs of the people and also to implement developmental works for their benefit. When compared to the neighbouring states the bus fare in Tamil Nadu was very minimal and people will realise that the fare has been hiked for their benefit. It was just the opposition parties which were making it an issue for political mileage, he said. The minister went on to add, that the value of money had gone down and even beggars were not accepting one rupee coins.
 
 He urged the people to co-operate in maintaining the cleanliness of the city, as they had an important role to play in it. Developmental activities were being continuously implemented in all the wards of the Madurai city. Six wards in zone four had been given paver block paths, bore wells, tar roads, metal roads and other facilities at a cost of Rs 214 lakhs.
 
 Speaking at the event the Madurai district collector K Veera Raghava Rao, said that the district administration and city corporation were taking all steps to ensure that the people had uninterrupted drinking water supply. There was sufficient water in the Vaigai dam to meet the drinking water needs of the city. The Rs 1400 scheme to bring water from the Periyar dam directly to Madurai to solve the drinking water problem of the city was also in the pipeline. The corporation commissioner Aneesh Sekhar also urged the people to participate in the maintenance of the city’s cleanliness.
 
 In another event, minister R B Udayakumar, inaugurated the works to the tune of Rs four crore, including roads, stormwater drainage among others under the Tamil Nadu Urban Road Infrastructure Project (TURIP) for the year 2017-2018 in Thirumangalam municipality. He said that Thirumangalam municipality was one which had got many developmental works implemented there. Petitions received from the people were looked into immediately and disposed of.
 
 
