BENGALURU: Inaugurated in March, Asia’s largest solar park in   taluk, Tumakuru, has seen multiple cases of malaria in the past few months, sending alarm bells ringing. Declaring a malaria outbreak in and around the park in December 2017, the health department wrote to the Tumakuru district administration to ensure that all labourers at the construction site undergo screening.

 As per data from the health and family welfare department, 112 cases of malaria were reported from Tirumani village, which houses the park, and neighbouring areas from November 2017 to March 2018. Labourers working at the site, most of whom are migrants from Odisha, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and  , have been at the receiving end. 
 
 “Odisha and West Bengal witness a large number of malaria cases, and some of the labourers carried the infection to Karnataka. As long the as the malaria parasite is present their body, mosquitoes which bite them will get infected and spread the disease,” said Dr B G Prakash Kumar, deputy director,  , health and family welfare department.
 
 The letter written to the Karnataka Solar Power Development Corporation Limited says: “Karnataka aims at eliminating malaria by 2025 and the sudden detection of these imported cases requires immediate attention to support intervention and follow-up action in order to prevent any indigenous transmission of malaria. TOI has a copy of the letter. 
 
 Apart from Tirumani, villages like Rayacherlu, Kyathaganacherlu, Balasamudra and Valluru have also been affected. Though the number of cases has dipped now, the threat looms large with monsoon fast approaching.
 
 “Labourers who had come to set up panels may have gone back to their native state, but another set of labourers employed for maintenance work have to be screened when they arrive,” ssaid an official. 
 
 Tumkaru district health officer Dr Rangaswamy HV said screening labourers on the first day of work is a must. “We have strictly instructed the company that henceforth, workers can be hired only after we issue a health card to them after a thorough screening. Though the cases have reduced, the concern remains. The patients included villagers as well as the infection had spread,” said Dr Rangaswamy.
 
 Officers recalled a similar outbreak of malaria in   village, Bagalkot district, where quarrying was going on. “It was two year ago, when labourers from other states were working at the site. Quarry pits are also a breeding ground for mosquitoes. In a village of 4,000 people, there were 600 malaria cases,” said officials.
 
 D Nagaraj, general manager of KSPDCL, said 99% of the labourers had gone back. “The outbreak was in the past, and guidelines given issued the health department were followed,” he said. Through the fixing of solar panels was taken up in a phased manner, 600 workers were involved in the project at any given point of time.
 
 
