PANAJI: The north Goa district and sessions court has ordered that the   ( ) building and its land be attached after the civic body failed to pay more than Rs 11 lakh with interest to a land owner despite acquiring his property for road widening for a public street.

 Principal district judge Irshad Agha recently passed the order after the owner failed to get paid for 157 sqm of his land. In 2016, the court had ordered payment of Rs 11 lakh with interest following a series of litigations filed by owner.
 
 Referring to the provision in law that entitles an ownerwhose land is acquired for a public streetfor compensation, the judge observed that when the applicant approached the civic body for the construction of a hall on the land, he was not given permission.
 
 The court also noted that the area had been excluded while determining the FAR for the land belonging to the owner. 
 
 In 2007, the civic body issued a public notice regarding road-widening at   for a public street, that led to the loss of the 157 sqm of land belonging to the owner. Following this, the owner’s application to construct a hall on the land was rejected by the civic body.
 
 Subsequently, when he filed for compensation under the Goa Municipalities Act, the value of his land was fixed at Rs 2,500 per sqm. He was also to be entitled to all benefits stipulated under certain provisions of the Land Acquisition Act.
 
 The court had, in 2016, directed the civic body to deposit Rs 11.76 lakh with interest calculated up to October 31, 2016, and a further interest at the rate of 15% per annum calculated from November 1, 2016, till the amount was paid.
 
 R G Ramani, appearing for applicant, argued that the building of the debtors be attached, while the municipality, through its counsel G Agni, stated that it was not open for the applicant to file an application for determination of compensation.
 
 Agni told the court that the possession of the land in question had not been taken by the municipality. Besides, the land was not put to use and was left out as a setback area, he said. 
 
 
