MUMBAI: For almost six hours, motorists—including children, patients and women—were left stranded as protests over the Bhima-Koregaon clashes reached the city and brought traffic in the eastern suburbs to a standstill. Protesters also stalled Harbour line services for five hours—from 11.44am to 5.20pm—as they blocked trains at Chembur. CR had to cancel 84 Harbour services though it ran CSMT-Kurla and Mankhurd-Paanvel shuttle services.

 Autos and taxis stayed off roads, especially in the Mankhurd-Chembur and Mulund-Nahur belt as well as in Navi Mumbai and Thane. Getting a cab through aggregator apps too proved difficult as fares rose with demand. A total of 224 buses— 187 of MSRTC, 30 of BEST, 5of TMT and 2 of NMMT —were vandalised across the state. Unions said if the situation remains tense on Wednesday, autos and taxis may not ply. Eight police personnel were injured in the violence.
 
 
  Traffic came to a halt at Ramabai Ambedkar Nagar, Kamraj Nagar, and   bridge. Snarls started around 12.30pm as protesters gathered on roads. “They smashed glass panes of vehicles at Ramabai Nagar. Luckily, violence subsided soon as police trooped in. But vehicles were not allowed to move. We were stranded for six hours,” said Vaishali Narkar, who was headed to Chembur.
 
 “The protesters were on one side of the road and cops on the other. They did not speak to each other. People were stranded without food, water or washrooms,” she added.
 
 Jalgaon-based   tweeted to Mumbai Police for help as his ailing mother was stuck for four hours. “My mother had an appointment at Hinduja Hospital. She left with my father around 1pm. They got stuck on the Eastern Express Highway. Those who knew the area turned the vehicles around and left but my parents do not know the roads. Besides, there were rumours of violence, so they stay put. My mother has a breathing problem. Fortunately, she was carrying portable oxygen bottles. At 5pm, one of our relatives from Chembur tracked down my parents down and took them home,” he said. “Vehicles on Vikhroli roads were diverted to LBS Road, on JVLR were diverted towards Saki Vihar, on Sion-Panvel Highway were diverted to Umarshi Bappa Chowk to Jhama Mahal Chowk to Panjrapol.
 
 Commuters were advised to use LBS Road,” said a traffic official. “For sometime, vehicles were not allowed to use the Eastern   to reach the eastern suburbs from south Mumbai. Rathna Sunderajan was returning in her car to Powai when she got stuck at Ramabai Nagar. “Had I been in public transport, I would have got off,” she said. “My pregnant wife and I were stuck for four hours,” tweeted motorist Jatan Gada. “Heavy vehicles were stopped to avoid congestion,” said DCP Nitin Pawar (traffic-Navi Mumbai). 
 
