When most people his age were setting personal goals and perhaps planning fancy vacations,  , 26, was engrossed in rewriting the fate of 96 underprivileged children and chalking out ways to get them to stay in school. “Over a dinner-table conversation, my mother (a teacher) told me that kids would come to school for a month or two and drop out. I had to think of a way to stop them from leaving school, so that we could help them over a long period of time. I remember that at their age, the only thing that drew me to school was football. That’s when I came up with the idea of   (TLL),” shares the young lawyer. However Utopian it might sound, Murtuza hopes to create an egalitarian world for ‘his children’. Because, he asserts, they suffer for ‘no fault of their own.’

 Conceptualised in January 2017, the TLL was up and running by July. The eight different clubs — Bayview Little Champs Football Club, SAM & Co Eagles Football Club, Super Strikers Football Club, Raksha Bullion Football Club, Worli Wolves Football Club, The Little Leopards Football Club, United Stallions Football Club and   — fought each other on ground last November.
 
 Like most well-intentioned acts, the league had its fair share of hurdles to overcome. Coach   recalls, “When I came here first, I saw that the children were in sandals and did not have proper kits. ‘This indeed is a challenge’, I thought to myself at that moment. What made matters worse was the lack of discipline and nutrition. The most important thing was to discipline them; without discipline, they would not be able to channelise their energy in the right direction. The biggest challenge was to start from scratch and make sure they got the basics right.” However, Rodrigues has observed drastic changes in the last six months; the children are raring to go! He says, “This programme is really helping the poor kids; they have their own football shoes and jerseys now. They like to play well past their practice time.”
 
 For volunteers Jayashree and Vidur Dhabaria (from NGO Vivekananda Youth Forum), providing these kids with a friendly environment and catering to their needs is of Himalayan importance. “My job is to ensure these kids hone their football skills. It is a challenge as well, because I have to look after 24 kids and I am only 19,” says Vidur, laughing. He adds on a serious note, “Happiness, for me, is spending time with these precious kids instead of partying hard.” Jayashree, who is actively involved in this initiative, says, “I believe that wholesome growth will happen only when we expose them to other aspects of life, one of them being sports.”
 
 Ganita Sharma, mother of one of the kids of the league, gets emotional. “Things that my husband (a vegetable vendor) and I could have never been able to afford for our son Aman, he is doing it all here. I am truly grateful to them,” she says. Ritu Gupta, another parent, echoes a similar thought. She shares, “Ankit (her son) expressed his interest in football to Jayashree ma’am, and now he goes to school, then tuitions and for practice on weekends. His father (a delivery boy) is elated to see his son learn things that he couldn’t.” Ganita and Ritu are homemakers and both of them volunteer to serve juice and bananas to the kids after their session on Saturdays and Sundays, a step taken to increase their physical strength and nutrition intake.
 
  
 Call it aspiration or the insatiable thirst for achievement, but these children have dared to dream again. Jayashree sums up her biggest takeaway in one anecdote. “In the last week of November, they were taken to watch a professional football league tournament. I was with the boys for the match and one of them asked ‘Hum log idhar kaise aa sakte hain?’ I replied with a smile, and told him that it is not an impossible dream. The boys are working towards it and they know practicing every Saturday and Sunday will get them somewhere in life.”
 
 Both Aman and Ankit haven’t given much thought to the kind of profession they would be interested in taking up, but they agree on this — “TLL main aana accha lagta hai!”
 
