Ludhiana: A local court has sentenced a 47-year-old man to 10-year rigorous imprisonment for raping a nine-year-old girl.

 Judge of special court Daljit Singh Ralhan also imposed a fine of Rs 20,000 on the convict. In default of payment, the convict will have to further undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months.
 
 On December 21, 2015, Sahnewal police had booked Munni Lal of Patna under Sections 376 (Punishment for rape), 511 (Punishment for attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 8 and 10 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.
 
 As per prosecution, the girl’s father had claimed that Munni Lal was having meals at his wife’s dhaba for about two months. On December 20, 2015, complainant, his wife and daughter reached the dhaba at 7am and at about 1pm, he and his wife were preparing meals when they heard the noise of their daughter from inside the dhaba.
 
 The complainant and his wife saw that Munni Lal was trying to rape their daughter and on seeing them, he ran away from the spot.
 
 A case was got registered and Munni Lal was arrested during investigation on December 23, 2015.
 
 A P S Virk, public prosecutor for state, proved that Munni Lal committed rape and sexual assault on a minor child. He further contended that the statement of complainant and rape survivor is also corroborated by the medical evidence.
 
 The public prosecutor contended that the accused be convicted accordingly for the offences under Sections 376 of Indian Penal Code, 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.
 
 Munni Lal contended that he has been falsely implicated in the case on the ground that he had a monetary dispute with the complainant.
 
 “Without any cogent evidence, this court does not find any merit in the contention of defense regarding the false implication. Moreover, it is not possible that life of minor child would be put at stake by the parents for allegedly implicating the accused, especially when the minor child has been sexually assaulted by the accused,” the court observed.
 
 The court held Munni Lal guilty for the offence under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and as such, commission of offence Under section 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.
 
 
