CHANDIGARH: With no check on timings of coaching institutes by the Chandigarh administration, timings of coaching institutes continue to be a problem for many. Recently, a city-based advocate has written to deputy commissioner highlighting the issue of coaching classes running during school hours in Sector 34 that is promoting dummy admissions. However, this is not the first time that a such a complaint has been made. In 2016, a government school teacher had also complaint about it.

 
  
 
 Thereafter, Section 144 was imposed for 60 days. The copy of the complaint which TOI has read as, “This is to bring to your kind attention that appalling situation is prevailing because of the coaching centres institutes being run in the city. These institutes conduct classes in the school hours thus defying high court orders. These coaching centres prepare students for competitive exams such as NEET, IIT, KVPY etc in the morning and as a result most of the school children abstain themselves from regular school.”
 
 Advocate Harjeet Bedi also highlighted the alleged tie-ups between   and coaching institutes in his complaint. “The students enrolled in these institutes are of classes X and XII who are simultaneously enrolled in various schools in Chandigarh on dummy basis. The schools and these coaching institutes go hand-in-hand,” the letter claims. Bedi has named various institutes in his complaint to the DC dated April 20, 2018 and stated that “These are few major participants who conduct their classes in school hours between 8am-2pm. Same can be verified if the premises of these are raided,” he said. However, he told TOI that he has not received any response on his complaint from deputy commissioner office so far.
 
 Swarn Singh Kamboj, a teacher who has given a similar complaint in 2016 said, “The administration has only been passing orders and not doing any ground work to check on it. There is clear tie-up between coaching institutes and school since without school’s support they cannot run classes in morning hours. There is a need for a permanent order on this issue.”
 
 
