PUNE: A 32-year-techie from Kharadi was among the 15 fresh complainants submitting applications on Saturday to the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the city cybercrime cell probing the  .

 The techie, Shivprasad, told TOI that an agent had approached him and told him to participate in the seminar held at a five-star hotel in 2015. “I paid him Rs40 lakh after he promised me that he would invest in the   Bitcoins. But he never purchased the Gain Bitcoins in my name nor returned the money,” Shivprasad said.
 
 Shivprasad exhausted all his and his parents’ savings to invest in the virtual currency in March 2017.
 
 Similarly, Ashish Roy from Aundh approached the police naming another agent in the case. “I do not know how the virtual currency operates. But a man approached me and said he would take care of everything. He told me I will get handsome returns on my investment. Now, I came to know that there is nothing on my name,” he said.
 
 It has been established that the racket was carried out with the help of different agents. They lured people with the promise of hefty returns. The police have now decided to identify the agents.
 
 After arresting eight suspects in the virtual currency cases in the past one month, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the city police said the racket of the virtual currency was in operation as a multi-level marketing system.
 
 “It was being operated through many agents. Now, complainants are naming different agents in their complaint applications. When the details of these agents are traced, they all lead to Amit Bharadwaj and the other arrested suspects,” an SIT officer said. He said, “There is a long chain of these agents. The prime suspects in the cases had promised them hefty returns. So, they worked hard and urged many people to invest in different cryptocurrencies.”
 
 In the past two days, a total of 25 persons approached the SIT officers with their statements and the collective sum of the scam has crossed the figure of Rs1 crore.
 
 Previously, the Dattawadi police, the cybercrime cell and Nigdi police collectively received complaint applications from many persons involving an amount over Rs2 crore.
 
 The SIT officials have appealed to citizens who invested in this scheme to approach the police with their complaint applications instead of waiting for the ‘returns’ to arrive. Citizens can approach SIT officials at the cybercrime cell on the top floor of the   Commissioner’s office near GPO. 
 
 Bitcoin entrepreneur Amit Bharadwaj, who allegedly cheated at least 8,000 people of Rs 2,000 crore with a cryptocurrency-based Ponzi scheme, has been arrested by Maharashtra police. Most of the victims are from the state, many of whom are from Mumbai and Pune.
 
 Bharadwaj (35) and his brother Vivekkumar (31), who founded Gain Bitcoin, were taken into custody from New Delhi soon after their arrival from Bangkok.
 
 In April 2014, the brothers started the company GB21 (Gain Bitcoin) in Singapore. In January 2015, they started the website gainbitcoin.com. Internet surfers, businessmen, doctors and housewives were their targets.
 
 
