TRICHY: A fatal ‘kick’ by traffic inspector Kamaraj ended our two-year married life,’ lamented Raja, husband of R Usha, 30, who died in a fall after the policeman targeted their two-wheeler at Thuvakudi in Trichy. He demanded that a case of murder be registered against Kamaraj.

 Raja, 40, a native of   in Thanjavur district, alleged that Kamaraj kicked his bike thrice. He managed to
 
 balance the vehicle twice, but lost his balance the third time and he and his pregnant wife were thrown off. "We were going to have a baby after two years of marriage. The unruly behaviour of a police officer cost my wife’s life. He should be booked for murder," Raja told reporters outside the mortuary at the Mahatama Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy where Usha’s body was kept.
 
 Massive protests erupted last night after news of Usha’s death spread. Over 1,000 agitators were dispersed by police from the accident spot at  , opposite BHEL quarters. Officials held talks with family members and relatives of Usha on Thursday as they refused to receive the body after post-mortem, demanding that a murder case be filed against Kamaraj. 
 
 The BHEL police had registered a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and for endangering the life or personal safety of others before lodging Kamaraj in the central prison in Trichy on Thursday morning.
 
 High drama continued as a large posse of police personnel was deployed in the area till evening. Deputy commissioner of police, law and order, Trichy city, S   attempted to pacify the protesters. But they stood firm on their demand. Raja was taken to the judicial magistrate court - 6 to record his statement. He insisted on registering a case of murder against the police officer. Eventually, the police assured the protesters that the sections under which the traffic inspector was charged would be altered. Following this, they received the body around 5 pm. 
 
 Sources said the final rites would be conducted in Trichy as Usha’s parents lived in KK Nagar.
 
 Police said they had booked 18 persons for damaging vehicles during the protest on Wednesday night.
 
 
