MUMBAI: UP chief minister   and Shiv Sena president   Thackeray will clash swords in Nalasoparaon Wednesday. The two leaders will address separate poll meetings for the   Lok Sabha byelection. 

 Nalasopara forms part of the Palghar Lok Sabha constituency. The by-election is scheduled for May 28. The UP CM will address two poll meetings, targeting the UP-Bihar voters. 
 
 Thackeray is expected to play the Marathi card to mobilize support for the party. 
 
 The Palghar by-election, necessitated because of the death of BJP MP Chintaman Wanga in January, marks a watershed in state politics for two reasons. 
 
 First, by poaching on a   constituency the Sena has displayed brazenness, firmly indicating that it can, if further provoked, gather courage and go solo for the 2019 general election. Palghar is Sena’s warning to the BJP, said experts. 
 
 Thackeray has already said that his party would not ink a poll partnership with the BJP for the next election. “The Palghar by-election is a dress rehearsal for us,” said a Sena corporator. The BJP too seems ready for the final parting of ways. 
 
 Second, the Palghar byelection and a slew of state legislative council elections scheduled to be held this week could alter the state’s political scenario. While the saffron siblings are at each other’s throat, the CongressNCP combine could quietly stitch up a broad anti-BJP front in Maharashtra under the leadership of   chief Sharad Pawar. 
 
 The BJP and the Sena have pulled out all stops to win the prized Palghar seat. The BJP has roped in Mumbai MLAs, including Mangal Prabhat Lodha, Parag Alavani, Yogesh Sagar and Praveen Darekar, to monitor the poll machinery. The Sena has asked its Mumbai-Thane corporators to conduct the Palghar poll orchestra. 
 
 Meanwhile, Saamna has accused the BJP of using money power to win the Palghar Lok Sabha by-election. “The BJP has roped in the entire state cabinet for the poll campaign and the party is armed with money bags,” Saamna alleged in an editorial on Tuesday. 
 
 The Shiv Sena mouthpiece took the BJP to task for ignoring the immediate family of Chintaman Wanga, the deceased BJP MP from Palghar, after his death in January. 
 
 Wanga was BJP’s face in tribal-dominated Palghar. Fearing that the BJP may ignore its claim, the Wangas defected to the Sena early this month and Thackeray offered the nomination to Shriniwas, Chintaman Wanga’s son, although the seat belonged to the BJP. Saamna also alleged that, “The BJP headquarters in Delhi is barely five minutes away from Chintaman Wanga’s residence...Yet, no BJP functionary went there to pay their last respects to the party MP.” 
 
