It’s a game of snakes and ladders but every ladder signifies a good habit and every snake bite is synonymous with an unhealthy habit, all related to the deadly disease of encephalitis. Sample this: the player in block number 2 takes a ladder straight to 20 with the message ‘maintained cleanliness around one’s home’.

 In block 23, a snake bite awaits a player with the message ‘approached a quack in case of fever’, bringing the player down to block 3. Decorated with pictures of good habits such as washing hands after visiting the toilet, bathing with clean water and using a mosquito net, the game teaches behaviour needed to keep encephalitis away.
  
  
 
 The tailor-made version of the ancient Indian board game of snakes and ladders, which was known as moksha patam, aims to touch 60,000 children fighting encephalitis in over 617 most vulnerable villages of UP. In moksha patam, snakes and demons make the players embrace philosophies of karma and sanskar.
 
 
 In the ‘dimagi bukhar saanp seedhi’ (encephalitis snakes and ladder), the player climbs the ladder and gets closer to the goal each time he/she follows a healthy behaviour. Snakes await the child whenever any risk. These include living in  , ignoring fever or going to quacks instead of a health facility.
 
 
 The game is a part of the Dastak campaign launched by the UP government earlier this year to beat encephalitis. The campaign aims at creating mass awareness against contributory factors of encephalitis through a polio-like comprehensive behaviour and communication change strategy.
 
 
 The game has been developed by   and New Concept Center for Development Communication for UP government. “Over 85% of those affected by encephalitis are children under the age of 14, making them the aggrieved lot. Besides, children are the best message carriers in the child to parent communication strategy. They have been changemakers in many global campaigns including that for polio elimination. Because they are a captive audience, sensitising them creates a twin layer of protection,” said Bhai Shelley, communication for development specialist at Unicef who is on board with UP’s health department for the Dastak campaign.
 
 
 This is for the first time that Unicef is working on encephalitis. Officials from the health department said that over 500 teachers across all upper primary schools in encephalitis-affected districts in Gorakhpur and Basti divisions have been trained for the campaign.
 
 
 School children are made to play this game every Saturday, which has been declared a no-bag day by the education department. An outdoor model of the ‘dimagi bukhar saanp seedhi’ has also been made for the use of street play teams who would cover 200 villages under the campaign.
 
 
 
 
 In another novel approach to spread awareness about fighting encephalitis, radio spots and   in encephalitis-affected districts of UP will speak the language of the people to ensure that lives are saved.
 
 
 “Bhojpuri jingles, radio spots and informative films have been developed to help people understand the seriousness of the matter in their own language,” said Shelley. The messages, which are already being aired, are a part of Dastak campaign in which health teams will go from house to house to create awareness on the issue of encephalitis.
 
 
 “Dastak is largely a comprehensive social and behaviour   (SBCC) strategy, which aims at positively impacting knowledge and treatment-seeking behaviours by involving families and communities through a range of media interventions,” said Prashant Trivedi, principal secretary, health and family welfare.
 
 
 The dire need for SBCC could be gauged from the high rate of deaths due to encephalitis. While pediatricians blame it on late arrival of the affected child to health care centre, surveys show how a lot of time is wasted at the doorsteps of faith healers and quacks.
 
 
 In a survey for the health department, social organisation Path found that 52% parents took their children with encephalitis first to a quack or faith healer. A small number of them tried remedies like warding off the evil eye. The survey also showed that only 17% of children were taken to a government health facility when symptoms surfaced.
 
 
