CHANDIGARH: After a gap of 34 years, student union elections will be held in three government universities of   and their affiliated colleges from the next academic session (2018-2019). Punjab CM   made this announcement in the state assembly on Tuesday. The elections were discontinued in 1984 due to terrorism in Punjab. 

 The elections would be held in Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, Punjabi University, Patiala, and Punjab Technical University (  and Bathinda campuses) along with their affiliated colleges. There are 48 government colleges in Punjab.
 
 "Students' elections are going to happen after so many years. Other universities like   in Chandigarh have been holding these elections," said the chief minister during the motion of thanks on governor's address. Congress party had included the student polls as one of the key items in its election manifesto during the 2017 state assembly elections. Revival of student bodies' polls was a long-standing demand of students as well as political leaders across parties.
 
 In neighbouring  , chief minister   had announced on February 19 that student bodies' elections in state government universities and colleges would be held in September. 
 
 The student body elections were banned in Haryana in 1997 by then chief minister Bansi Lal after incidents of violence.
 
 Amarinder said since peace and normalcy has returned in Punjab, student bodies’ polls would be held regularly. He also said that his government was committed to setting up a regulatory authority on functioning of all private and public universities and colleges in Punjab.
 
 He added that a cabinet sub-committee was about to finalise the draft for establishing the regulatory body after due consultations with all stakeholders.
 
 Listing various initiatives of his government to improve education system, he said, “An advisory group comprising eminent educationists to suggest measures to improve the standards of higher education in the state is also under process.”
 
 
 
