Jaipur: Days before announcing results for the recruitment of assistant professors, a new order by Rajasthan University ( ) has sent hopes of hundreds of applicants crashing.

 In May 2017, a notification for eight posts of assistant professors in Business Administration was issued. According to the Ordinance 141 E, the qualification for the applicants for assistant professors was post-graduation in relevant subject from an Indian university. Therefore, MIB (Masters in International Business), MHRM (Masters in Human Resource Management) and MBA (Masters in Business Administration), NET qualified and Ph.D students were eligible for this.
 
 However, after the examination was conducted on March 25, 2018, a new notification was issued and now only candidates who have done masters in business administration (M. Com) will become eligible for the post of assistant professor. So, it should be noted that a person can do MBA and Ph. D from the same department but is not eligible for the post of assistant professor even though many faculty member are also MBA. This has affected around 80% students out of 705 candidates who gave the exam.
 
 The vice-chancellor of the Rajasthan University R K Kothari said, “Both the degrees are different and their syllabus are different. It was specifically mentioned in the ordinance that degree should be of the relevant subject. Hence, for this post it should be a degree from the M. Com in business administration as they only match our criteria and as per the ordinance it is implied so we are not violating any rules.”
 
 According to the UGC guidelines, the equivalent and related degrees will be eligible for the exam. In a case decided by the Rajasthan High Court, Kailash Chand Meena v. RPSC (2013), MBA and related areas MHRM/MIB will be considered equivalent to M. Com (Business administration) as their courses and content of syllabus is same.
 
 Mahesh Kumar, a candidate said, “I have completed my MBA and NET/JRF but still not eligible for the exam. I want government to take strict action against this and UGC guidelines should be followed. The degrees that are related/ equivalent like MIB or MHRM are also barred from the exam but they should be eligible.”
 
 
