THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Encroachment by religious institutions, hotels and resorts are rampant on the newly formed beaches and rocky patches on the southern side of   worksite.

 As the construction of 3.2km-breakwater is in progress at Vizhinjam, coastal zone management experts have pointed at the possibility of large-scale accretion (addition of materials to a landmass) on south and erosion on the north of the port. However, the government is yet to take any step to protect the newly formed land and has turned a blind eye on encroachments, alleged the representatives of the fishing community.
 
 Signs of illegal constructions on the un-surveyed land are becoming visible in the area between   and  , which include a new flagpole of a temple on Ocham rock at Chovvara and extension works by a church and scores of private properties, inviting protest from the fishing community.
 
 Sand bypassing (transport of newly formed sediments from one side of the breakwater to the eroded area on the other side) is the best scientific method to set right accretion and erosion as suggested by earlier studies at   in  . “But, it’s quite expensive and has never been experimented in India,” said  , former secretary of Kerala Independent Fishworkers’ Federation, who is also an expert on coastal zone protection and ocean governance.
 
 The accretion and erosion on both sides of Vizhinjam had begun in the 70’s after the construction of the fishing harbour. “Now, at the commercial harbour, we will have a much bigger berth and breakwater, and the impact would be huge, as is pointed out by studies by MoEF. Encroachments have already begun in some areas on these lands yet to be surveyed by the government,” Vijayan said.
 
 “The repeated beach erosions due to man-made structures have been leading to the automatic eviction of fishermen in several places on the northern side. The government must protect the newly formed beaches for projects beneficial to the fishing community,” said Robert Panipilla, the chief coordinator of Friends of Marine Life (FML), an NGO which is working for the welfare of the community.
 
 Though Kovalam, the Kerala tourism’s prime beach location, is unlikely to get affected in a big way owing to the protection it has from the rock formations, the new seaport at Vizhinjam will have a huge impact on Poonthura and other places till Thumba, thickly populated by the fishing community.
 
 Citing CRZ (coastal regulation zone) rules, the fishermen are not allowed even to erect a hut within 50 metres from HTL (high tide line), but the government is remaining silent on encroachment by private parties and big constructions, which are in blatant violation of CRZ rules, Robert added.
 
