PATNA: The mines and geology department (MGD) on Wednesday maintained that the official rate of ‘yellow sand’ sold anywhere in the state is in the range of Rs3,200-4,100 per CFT and action would be taken against the vendors found charging more than that from consumers.

 The department also maintained that no royalty would be charged on the earth dug up for private use by people on a chunk of land. However, the royalty would continue to be charged on earth dug up for commercial use. The department maintained that the mineral prospecting work done in parts of the state has indicated that coal blocs were available in Bhagalpur district, besides platinum in  , magnetite (iron ore) in   and potash in Aurangabad districts. 
 
 MGD minister Vinod Kumar Singh and department’s principal secretary  , along with other senior officials, on Wednesday, gave an update on the achievements and activities of the department after the government took drastic steps last year to check illegal sand mining in 29 districts.
 
 The steps had led to scarcity of sand for most parts of the year and the sand price had increased to Rs9,000 per CFT. It put a brake on construction activities, resulting in general unemployment of labourers in the construction and mining sectors. 
 
 “The official rate of yellow sand is in the range of Rs3,200-Rs 4,100 per CFT and the department will take action against those vendors found charging more,” Prasad said.
 
 He, however, said the sand price in UP is more, which results in its smuggling from the bordering districts of   and scarcity in those areas. Prasad said the department is conducting a general survey of the actual situation to take the required follow-up action.
 
 Singh said the crackdown on illegal mining of yellow sand had yielded increased revenue to the department. The revenue returns during the 2017-18 fiscal has been Rs1,002.83 crore against the target of Rs1,350 crore. The revenue in 2016-17 was Rs994.10 crore and the target for 2018-19 has been fixed at Rs1,600 crore.
 
 The minister said the new sand mining and marketing system would stabilize, adding that hard wired GPS devices fixed to the vehicles would help in high-tech monitoring and surveillance of sand transportation.
 
 Prasad said the pre-monsoon and post-monsoon satellite mapping of the basin of the yellow sand-yielding rivers would be done every year to ascertain the quantum of sand deposited during the monsoon season.
 
 Since the vehicle transporting sand from the pit is issued the receipt of the quantity carried, the method gives an idea of the total sand mining done and also of the volume of the state’s sand reserve that would remain unsold, Prasad said.
 
 
