The conversations around the proposed long term capital gains ( ) tax refuse to die. There is merit in the argument that capital gains, both long- and short-term, should be taxed. The problem is in how we have chosen to implement this idea.

 Arguments that capital gains are earned by money that lies idle, or that there is a large gain and giving a small portion of it won't hurt, smack of poor understanding of markets, and an intent to usurp what might have been rightfully earned. They are thus wrong in principle. In taxing income, the recognition of subsequent earning capability of money that has been taxed already is an established principle. That is why rent and interest from property and bonds are taxable.
 
 Capital gain is an income that accrues in the books of the investor when the capital asset is sold. In taxing this income, there are three principles to consider: First, there can be gains or losses when an asset is sold. If gains are subject to tax, losses are eligible for set off. Second, the gain is the difference between the sale price and cost, and a reasonable computation of cost has to be arrived at. Third, not all gains may represent income. An asset may appreciate in value merely due to increase in overall cost of goods, or inflation.
 
 The   proposal fails to apply these principles to long term capital gains from equity, leaving it open to argument, compromise and modification.
 
 Now for the rate of tax. There is little merit in introducing new rates and modifying them often. A flat rate is punitive as it fails to honour the primary principle of progressively taxing higher income at higher rates. Determining sources of income and taxing them at the marginal rate applicable to an entity is an equitable principle. This ensures a tax-exempt investor who earns capital gains is not subject to tax depending on source of income, but stays at the slab that applies to his overall income.
 
 However, the government uses tax rates to direct investments and provide incentives. Exempting capital gains and taxing short-term capital gains at 15% are all incentives to encourage equity investments. Why 10%? Because longterm tax rate had to be lower than short term rate of 15%. Why the ?1 lakh exemption? So as not to hurt marginal earners of capital gains. The problem with these proposals is that they incrementally modify what is there. They will thus come up for modifications as arguments are made about their inequity.
 
 Why not tax capital gain at marginal rates, allowing set off and indexation benefits to long-term gains? The worry is compliance. Capital gains are realised on the books of the investor to which the taxman has no access. The task of linking each sale to its cost, and determining the gains is the job of the accountant. Not all investors are subject to tax audit requirements. The onus of reporting gains correctly and paying taxes is on the investor. Given the scant regard for rule of law, it is unrealistic to expect honest payment of taxes on capital gains as earned. It is onerous to fix evasion given the scale of transactions.
 
 The proposed 10% tax intends to encourage compliance by pointing out how small it is compared to the gains made on equity. The argument won't do much with respect to actual compliance, except from a minority that cares for integrity.
 
 Then there are questions of inequity and unfair treatment. Why should insurance proceeds that include capital gains from equity be exempt? Why should longterm for equity be one year? Why should transactions in an   be exempt? These are all exemptions that stem from apprehension about disturbing status quo. They are not tenable positions.
 
  is a flat levy and its merit lies in the ease of collection and compliance. STT enabled bringing short term   rate from marginal rates to 15% and exempting long term gains. To keep STT and impose a new tax is just the Finance Minister trying his luck with a few more rupees of tax collection.
 
 
 
 
