NAVI MUMBAI: A   was surprised to find a   she had laid in the ground-floor flat. The Patils opened the flat on Thursday evening after nearly two months. 

 Deepak Patil, who works with the Navi Mumbai police, said that his nephew and his family were shifting furniture, including some drums, into the house, when one of them noticed a shed snake skin in one corner of the house. "I figured that this only mean that there is a snake somewhere in the house," said Patil. 
 
 A bit of looking around and they soon found eggs-they later counted 19 of them-in one corner with the mother cobra coiled around, guarding the eggs from the 'intruders'. She was possibly holed up in the flat for a long time. 
 
 The Patils, still incredulous and dazed, quickly called up animal activist Raghunath Jadhav of  , a non-profit organisation. 
 
 The cobra was "very alert and protective" of the eggs, said Jadhav, admitting that this made the rescue operation "a bit tricky". Patil intimated officials of the state forest department about the discovery of the cobra as all snakes are classified 'scheduled protected species' under the Wildlife (Protection) Act. 
 
 "First, I caught the cobra, and then carefully placed the eggs in a box. Two of the eggs were found damaged at that time," said Jadhav.
 
 On Friday, the cobra and her eggs were taken to a forested patch near Panvel and placed along with the female cobra in the presence of forest officials from where she slithered away into the thicket.
 
 While the Patils were relieved that the snake was out of their flat, Jadhav said he was happy that they had immediately called up a snake experts instead of trying to deal with the situation themselves. "A cobra bite can be very deadly, and it can paralyze the victim or trigger a heart attack," said Jadhav.
 
 Honorary wildlife warden with the forest department, Sunish Subramanian, said that people should call up a snake rescue helpline. "Or, one can dial the forest helpline number-1926-for snake rescues and relocations as forest officials have the equipment and expertise required.
 
 
