Ludhiana: The chemical-laced water of   is creating havoc in many villages situated on its banks. Several deaths have been reported due to hepatitis and other diseases in these villages in the past four years. Some of the families were completely wiped out and some lost seven to eight members to the diseases. The Buddha Nullah is mixing with Satluj water and also entering the groundwater, which is further polluting soil and making animals sick.

 The villages that face problems include Gaunspur, Walipur Khurd, Walipur Kalan, Maniewal, Talwandi Nauwad, Rampur, Kotmara, Gorsian, Madarpura, Sidhwan Bet, Baranhara, Partap Singh Wala, Salempur and Waghla. These are situated around 1.5km from the drain.
 
 Parminder Singh, a resident of Walipur Khurd village, said they do not get a match for their children because nobody wants to solemnise marriages here due to diseases and deaths. “There are 100 houses in our village and each has a hepatitis patient. In the past three to four years many people have died as well,” he added.
 
 A resident of Ghamalewal village, Ajit Singh, said he lost eight members of his family to hepatitis and around four months back his cousin also passed away. He said at a medical check-up camp in the village, many new patients were detected. “We have given an ultimatum to the district administration to resolve this problem in six months else we will plug Buddha Nullah with sand near dairy complexes on Hambran Road to block the water from reaching our villages,” he added.
 
 While describing the condition of water supplied, a resident of Maniewal village, Magh Singh, said it had foul smell and there were bubbles in it, besides it was sticky as if mixed with chemicals. “We are forced to give this water to buffaloes. When animals will drink this water, one can imagine the condition of their health and the kind of milk they will supply. Our kids and other family members remain ill most of the time,” he added.
 
 Deputy commissioner Pardeep Agrawal said they were aware of the problem and initiatives to curb the pollutants were also on. He said the work to install common effluent treatment plants to control the pollution levels was going on and upgrade of sewerage treatment plants was also under consideration. “We will solve this problem very shortly,” he added.
 
 MC operation and maintenance cell superintending engineer Ravinder Garg said, “The detailed project report to upgrade three sewerage treatment plants will be submitted to MC in a fortnight. It will be then sent to the state government for its approval. The plants’ upgrade will solve the problem of sewerage discharge into the drain.” 
 
 However, professor at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) Kirti Dua said the groundwater alongside the Buddha Nullah was completely polluted. “Not only residents but animals are also at risk, and it is affecting the milk supply. Apart from this, vegetables and crops are also getting toxins,” Dua added. 
 
 The Buddha Nullah’s three major pollutants are: non-treated discharge from sewerage treatment plants, effluents of industries, especially dyeing units, and garbage dumping. 
 
 Seechewal had raised alarm 
 
 Environmentalist Baba Balbir Singh Seechewal had raised the alarm for solving the pollution problem a number of times. Seechewal, during his last visit to the city on April 21, had criticized the Punjab Pollution Control Board and municipal corporation of Ludhiana for their failure in solving the problem. The polluted water of Buddha Nullah is getting mixed with Satluj and in many villages, residents are forced to drink it. 
 
 “We have given an ultimatum to the district administration to solve this problem in six months else we will plug Buddha Nullah with sand near dairy complexes on Hambran Road to block the water from reaching our villages.”
 
 -- Ajit Singh, a resident of Ghamalewal village who lost eight members of his family to hepatitis
 
 
