MUMBAI: In 2014, as actor   gave mementos and certificates to families of cadaveric organ donors at a public function held in   in Parel, he could not hold back his tears. 

 The families were no doubt touched by his humility and presence on that day, but what had a bigger and telling impact was his gesture of signing a giant donor card. 
 
 “There was an immediate increase in the awareness levels about organ donations and number of people wanting to sign donor cards rose,” said the then ZTCC secretary general Dr  , who had helped organise the ceremony. Aamir isn’t the only celebrity who has helped a struggling cause. 
 
 “When actor Aishwarya Rai pledged to donate her eyes in 2010, there was a noticeable increase in the number of people who sought out information on how and where to donate eyes,” said nephrologist Dr Bharat Shah, who has regularly roped in celebrities for his NGO Narmada Kidney Foundation’s awareness drives. 
 
  
 Actor Shammi Kapoor, who was himself a kidney failure patient, would regularly help Dr Shah with the awareness drives. 
 
 Celebrity endorsers have a way of ‘lifting’ a cause. If actor Shabana Azmi stood up for destigmatising HIV/AIDS in the eighties, actor Amitabh Bachchan helped make the polio drive a success across the country. 
 
 
 Medical journals have for the last two decades analysed how celebrity endorsements help health causes. Recently, Hollywood diva Angelina Jolie’s articles in The New York Times about her decision to undergo mastectomy (removal of breasts) and oophorectomy (removal of ovaries) led to an increase in the number of women going for genetic tests to detect breast and ovarian cancers. 
 
 “Celebrities have a huge impact because people are willing to listen to their icons,” said Dr Shah. Indeed, when a hospital chain last year roped in cricketer   to pledge his organs, there was a rise in the number of pledges. The Journal of Health Communication in 1995 observed that exposure to celebrities could have an important influece on the public’s health-related attitudes, beliefs, and behaviours. 
 
 “The announcement by Los Angeles Lakers’ basketball star Magic Johnson that he tested positive for HIV infection was intended to promote HIV/ AIDS prevention, particularly among adolescents and young adults. Results indicate that those who had a greater degree of emotional involvement with Johnson were more likely to show an increase in their personal concern about AIDS, concern about the risk of AIDS to heterosexuals, and intention to reduce high-risk sexual behaviours,” the article said. 
 
 But there is a flipside too: If it isn’t sustained, there is little long-term effect. “Simply knowing about Johnson by watching him play basketball, hearing him speak, or reading about him had no measurable impact on the public’s responses to his HIV disclosure,” noted the Health Communication article. Asenior doctor said celebrity endorsers have immediate, short-term effect. Dr Shah said, “Celebrity support has to be a continuous awareness drive. Only repeat endorsements create a lasting effect.”
 
