The upcoming crime drama 'Raid', which releases this Friday, is based on some of the most high-profile   raids conducted in the 80s. The film, set in Lucknow, tells the story of Amay Patnaik, an income tax officer, who carries out a   at the mansion of one of the most powerful men in the city, Tauji, to unearth ill-gotten cash worth Rs 420 crore. The film stars  , Ileana D’Cruz and  . 

 
 
 : Ajay Devgn takes on the mantle of playing Lucknow’s Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax, who gets his job done without flexing his muscles or beating up goons.
 
 : She is Amay’s wife and also his pillar of strength. Essayed by Ileana D’Cruz, Malini underlines the anxiety, unpredictability and helplessness faced by spouses when they have no clue about the whereabouts of their better halves during an active raid.
 
  He is the feudal, slightly psychotic and corrupt antagonist played by Saurabh Shukla. He is a three-time Member of Parliament and the most influential and powerful person in the state.
 
 Director Raj Kumar Gupta, who has helmed the film, shares, “I was moved by the story when I heard it. It was about real people and situations. I instinctively felt that people should know about this incredible story. I am delighted that powerhouse performers like Ajay Devgn, Saurabh Shukla and Ileana D’Cruz play the principal characters. Various theatre actors have helped in creating the milieu through the portrayal of other characters and aided me in the storytelling.” Producer Bhushan Kumar, Chairman and Managing Director, T-series, says, “When Raj Kumarji narrated the one-line story of Raid, I connected with it immediately. The film is based on a true story and I feel that people will like the realistic treatment given to it. Working with a brilliant actor like Ajay in the past has been a tremendous pleasure and we are committed to doing more work together.” Producer Abhishek Pathak, Managing Director, Panorama Studios, adds, “We always strive to make films that have powerful and awe-inspiring stories, which the audience can relate to. Raid is especially relevant today since stories on scams and tax evasions have been making headlines.”
 
 
 
