NAGPUR: The highest collective decision making body of the   (RSS) — Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha (ABPS) — is meeting in the city on March 9-11. There are indications that the current RSS Sarkaryavah Bhaiyyaji Joshi will step down and   will be elected in his place.

 It is the ABPS which gives a sort of democratic colour to the otherwise non-transparent and closed nature of the RSS. Around 1,500 representatives of various constituents of Sangh Parivar get together for ABPS annually at different venues in the country. But once in three years, ABPS meets in Nagpur — RSS headquarters. What makes the Nagpur ABPS crucial is that election for the post of Sarkaravah takes place during the meet.
 
 While Sarshanghachalak is the top post of the RSS, its incumbent is seen in the role of a philosopher and guide leading the world’s largest organization wedded to the cause of protecting Hindutva. It is the No.2 or Sarkaryavah who looks after the day-to-day activities and is practically the executive head.
 
 Bhaiyyaji Joshi has been in the post for last nine years. Before that he spent years in Sewa Bharti that does disaster management and providing relief during calamities. He was also the all-India Sewa Pramukh. The current RSS RSS chief   also worked as Sarkaryavah for nine years before he was promoted to the post by K S Sudarshan, the outgoing chief, in 2009. Bhagwat-Joshi are credited with gearing up the organization in 2014 for giving a big push that enabled the BJP to come to power at the Centre and form the party’s first majority government with   as Prime Minister.
 
 In 2015, ABPS at Nagpur, Hosabale’s name had cropped for the general secretary post. But for some reasons it was dropped and Joshi was given third term. Now in early 70s, Joshi’s is grappling with some health problems and wants to step down. Unlike Joshi who worked all along with the RSS and graduated from the Shakha level, Hosabale, who has come through the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad. 
 
 Known as politically more pragmatic, there are some in the RSS who feel that he is closer to the Modi-Shah duo who rule the country and hence his appointment to the No.2 position would mean further politicization of the RSS. But there are others who feel that Hosabale in his 60s, would be the dynamic force and help attracting the youth support. So he could be chosen over the two sarkayavahs — Dr Krishna Gopala and V Bhagaiah, older than him.
 
 A new Sarkaryavah just with general elections a year ahead makes the change more significant as it would re-define the Sangh’s role. Also the RSS would under the new general secretary would be in 2025 organizing the centenary of its inception. 
 
 
