Mohali: The officials of Mohali municipal corporation (MC) along with experts from an outsourced company conducted a survey to construct a cycle track in Mohali. The work on construction of the track as a pilot project will soon commence, said   commissioner Sandeep Hans.

 Hans said a team of MC officials under supervision of executive engineer Harpal Singh Bhullar, SDO Sukhwinder Singh, junior engineer Akshay Kumar and expert architect from ST associates conducted the survey of the road, where the cycle track will come up.
 
 Hans said, “The work orders have been issued to Chandigarh-based consultant S T Associates for preparing the DPR for cycle tracks along with junction design including conducting of survey, feasibility report and detailed estimate as per IRC standards.”
 
 MC commissioner said this track will be constructed on a trial basis before the work to construct cycle tracks in the entire city takes off. Hans said, “Cycle tracks are a must as per the smart city concept. We will get this track constructed on trial basis and later will spread the concept in the entire city.”
 
 During the survey, the team decided the service lane running along the YPS road will widened. After this, a divider will be constructed to separate the service lane and the cycle track. The road surface of the cycle track will be painted red in colour with a sketch of a cyclist on it, said Hans.
 
 The work order was allotted recently after the finance and contracts committee (F&CC) approved the rate of Rs 18,000 per kilometre. The company had bid Rs 20,000 per kilometre which later came down to the said rate after negotiations, said mayor.
 
 The cycle track measuring 2.7 km in length, starting YPS crossing will extend upto Kubran village crossing, after which it will turn towards Forest Complex in Sector 68.
 
 Hans said the company will be conducting the topographical survey of the roads using electronic total station up to right of way, covering features, structures, telephone poles, streetlights falling in the row with its level complete in all respects and submit three sets of drawings along with a soft copy in AutoCAD including all tools, equipment and manpower complete as per directions of engineer-in-charge.
 
 Commissioner also added that the company will be preparing proposals and designs of cycle track as per IRC specifications in order to be effective and planned in an integrated manner, so as to ensure continuous traffic (cyclists’) flow for an area and prepare an overall strategic plan to reduce their conflict with vehicular traffic flow to minimum.
 
 
