SURAT: If all goes well, each diamond mined from beneath the earth by the world’s diamond mining giant   would have a digital record right from the mines to market.

 For the first time, De Beers has piloted blockchain technology for the diamond industry, a technology initiative to span the diamond value chain and provide a single, tamper-proof and permanent digital record for every diamond registered on the platform.
 
 The main objective behind the initiative, according to De Beers is to underpin confidence in diamonds and diamond industry by ensuring that all registered diamonds are conflict-free and natural, while also enhancing efficiency across the sector.
 
 A pilot project is underway involving a small number of participants. After the success, the full launch of the programme will be done by the end of 2018.
 
 Out of the 80 core clients or sightholders of De Beers across the globe, mostly are Gujarati diamantaires from Surat, Mumbai and Antwerp. International sights or sales take place 10 times a year in Botswana. As a part of its beneficiation programme, it also supplies rough in separate sights to 11 local sightholders in Namibia, 20 in   and seven in South Africa.
 
 De Beers CEO Bruce Cleaver said, “Diamonds hold enduring value and represent some of life’s most meaningful moments, so it’s essential to provide assurance that a diamond is conflict-free and natural. By leveraging blockchain technology, we will provide an additional layer of assurance to consumers and industry participants, with every diamond registered on the platform having a record as everlasting as the diamond itself.”
 
 Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) regional chairman   told TOI, “De Beers and   are the largest suppliers of rough diamonds in the world. The blockchain initiative will go a long way in protecting the real identity of the diamonds and would provide a sense of confidence to consumers. Imagine, you own a diamond and you have its entire history from mines to market.”
 
 
