KOLKATA: The   on Thursday ordered the authorities concerned in Howrah and   to make sure that no hunting festival takes place in these districts between May 12 and May 16 on the occasion of Falharini Kali Puja. The verdict, which comes in the wake of the recent killing of a Royal Bengal Tiger by alleged tribal hunters in Lalgarh, has come as a shot in the arm for activists who have been fighting against tribal hunting.

 Senior counsel  , who represented the petitioners — members of Human & Environment Alliance League (HEAL), said: “We told the court that apart from people from tribal communities, several outsiders also join them during this recreational hunting garbed as ‘ritual hunting’. Besides, the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, doesn’t give any right to the Scheduled Tribes — and not even forest dwellers — to hunt, trap or extract body parts of wild animals protected under the Wildlife Protection Act.”
 
 “After hearing our arguments, the division bench of Chief Justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya and Justice Arijit Banerjee asked the district magistrates concerned and superintendents of police to extend all possible help, including supply of adequate police force, to the forest department to stop hunting of wild animals in these two districts on the occasion of Falharini Kali Puja,” added Mitra.
 
 Every year on the occasion of Falharini Kali Puja, large groups of hunters — numbers range between 5,000 and 10,000 — congregate in various parts of East Midnapore and Howrah and hunt thousands of wild animals, birds and reptiles protected under various schedules of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Schedule I and II species like fishing cats,monitor lizards, pangolins, jungle cats, porcupines, jackals and large number of birds are hunted openly. 
 
 Sources said these hunters are from both tribal and non-tribal communities and come mostly from West Midnapore, Jhargram, Bankura and Purulia. “They also use the places in and around the railway platforms for killing, cooking and skinning wildlife. This hunting is also helping fuel he illegal wildlife trade,” said Suvrajyoti Chatterjee of HEAL.
 
 Chief wildlife warden   said: “I heard a PIL was filed, but am not aware of any order. But we have already alerted the concerned DFOs, district magistrates and SPs so that we can work together to thwart the hunting bid.”
 
 (Inputs from Rupak Banerjee and Suman Mandal)
 
 
