BENGALURU: With Karnataka going to polls on a Saturday (May 12), one big question is already making the rounds: Will Bengalureans care to come out in large numbers and exercise their franchise to push up the city’s notoriously low voter turnout?

 While both the election commission and   (BBMP) have joined hands to encourage people to come out and vote in large numbers, the debate among various stakeholders is on whether the scheduling of the polling day on a second Saturday would really help improve turnout.
 
 “We had requested that the polling day be scheduled on a weekday. Voter turnout in Bengaluru city was poor in last three elections, two of which were held on weekends,” said S Suresh Kumar, MLA from Rajajinagar and chairman of the BJP’s election manifesto committee, who had led a delegation to the Election Commission last week.
 
 The number of voters in the city has increased from 71,13, 831 in 2013 to 87,98,335. But there is no certainty that this would result in higher turnout at polling stations.
 
 “We know it’s a cause of concern and are taking all possible measures to improve turnout. We have charted out various programmes under SVEEP (systematic voters’ education and electoral participation) scheme of the Election Commission of India to ensure better turnout, especially focusing on urban areas like Bengaluru,” said Sanjiv Kumar, chief electoral officer (CEO) for Karnataka.
 
 BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad, who is also the Bengaluru district electoral officer, expressed hope that the turnout would be better this time as there has been a good response to the civic agency’s voter enrolment drive.
 
 Noting that the polling day falls on a weekend, the BBMP commissioner appealed to the people: “Cast your vote before going for any outing.”
 
 One of the reasons cited for low voter turnout is that majority of the people in Bengaluru work in private companies which don’t give a holiday on polling days.
 
 “From business point of view, it’s not viable for commercial establishments and industries to declare a holiday for election. It makes sense for companies to allow their employees to take an hour’s break from work to vote,” said K Ravi, president Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI).
 
 A senior official from the labour department, however, said that as per National and Festival Holiday Act 1963 and Representation of the People Act, 1951, it’s mandatory for companies to declare a paid holiday on polling day, failing which the department can take action against them.
 
 Social activists, however, blame government authorities for poor turnout previously. “Unless you clean up electoral rolls, you can never get the real picture on voter turnout. If you say the turnout is 57.38%, it could actually be 10% points more, considering the number of voters’ names that ought to have been deleted,” said Santosh B Min, convener of Praja Jagruti Samithi, which has launched Purity of Elections campaign.
 
 
