UK’s only prize for comic fiction, the Bollinger Everyman   for Comic Fiction, is awarded to the funniest book each year. But for the first time in its history since it was started in the year 2000, the prize will not be announced this year as none of the 62 novels which were submitted for the contest made all the judges laugh.

 The decision was announced by the organisers on May 16 and the prize is now expected to roll over to next year, reported The Telegraph UK. “My fellow judges and I have decided to withhold the prize this year to maintain the extremely high standards of comic fiction that the   represents... Despite the submitted books producing many a wry smile amongst the panel during the judging process, we did not feel than any of the books we read this year incited the level of unanimous laughter we have come to expect. We look forward to awarding a larger rollover prize next year to a hilariously funny book,” said David Campbell, judge and publisher of Everyman’s Library.
 
 The winner of the Bollinger Everyman Wodehouse prize for comic fiction is generally presented with a case of champagne and a rare breed pig, which is named after the winning novel, at the Hay literary festival which takes place annually. According to The Guardian, next year’s bumper prize will include a methuselah of bubbly and a particularly large pig. 
 
 Commenting on the prize being withheld this year, Victoria Carfantan, director of Champagne Bollinger said, “The decision taken by the judges this year is akin to the way we produce Bollinger’s Prestige Champagnes. They are created when the harvest reaches a perfect balance, and only very high quality harvests become a vintage... We are confident that 2019 will make for an exceptional crop of hilarious submissions and the winner will celebrate with the rollover prize of a methuselah of Bollinger Special Cuvée.”
 
 The 62 entrants for this year's prize are not yet revealed. Some of the previous winners of the prestigious award are authors  ,  ,  ,  , and  .
 
 It's noted that this is not the only literary award which is being withheld this year. The Nobel Foundation announced on May 3 that the 2018 Nobel Prize for Literature will not be awarded this year, following the sexual misconduct allegations that has seen few board members resign from the board of the Swedish Academy that selects the winners. 
 
 
