GHAZIABAD: The district administration has mooted a proposal to fortify the   with fencing following a string of drowning cases in the recent past. 

 Though a substantial section of the canal is already fenced, certain stretches are still bare.
 
 District magistrate  , who wrote to the irrigation department in this regard, told TOI, “There are gaps within the fences that are used by boys to enter the canal. The irrigation department has been asked to plug these gaps. The project will be undertaken depending on funds at the disposal of the department. Caution should be exercised by parents whose children throng the canal for recreation.”
 
 A number of drowning cases are reported from the Hindon Canal every year, particularly in summer when children enter the canal. On May 19, a 12-year-old boy studying in Class V of a government school in Pratap Vihar drowned in the canal while bathing with his friends. Two of his friends who accompanied him to the canal managed to swim safely to the bank. This occurred near a bridge across the canal that connects Vasundhara and Indirapuram. 
 
 At the same spot on June 18 last year, two teenagers drowned while attempting to save a man. Shivam Srivastava (18) and Gunjan (19) had gone to the canal with two other friends when they saw a man who seemed to be intoxicating himself with some substance. The man jumped into the water and the youths, thinking he was trying to commit suicide, jumped in to save him. While the man managed to swim to safety, the two youths were swept away.
 
 On June 20 last year, a 10-year-old girl drowned near another bridge downstream which connects Sector 4 and Vaishali with Indirapuram. An 18-year-old boy who jumped in to save the girl also drowned. The girl   had entered the water and got pulled in. The 18-year-old, who was walking along the inner bank of the canal, immediately jumped into the water to save the girl. But soon, he too disappeared inside.
 
 On July 19 last year, another minor boy drowned to death in the canal near Sector 1 of Vasundhara when he had entered the water for bathing. Eyewitnesses said Mohammed swam to a deeper part of the canal while bathing.
 
 Police and NDRF are usually roped in for search and rescue operations in such cases. In the recent past, there have been reports about boys entering the water to swim even at night.
 
 “We have requested civic agencies to install streetlights along the canal stretch. The agencies have also been requested to boost infrastructure in such a manner that boys find it impossible to enter the waters,”   SP (City)   told TOI.
 
 Youngsters whose families live in shanties or nearby areas of Makanpur, Kanshi Ram Colony of Pratap Vihar and Kanawani are usually the ones who enter the canal for recreation.
 
 “Boys usually go to the canal in groups irrespective of the fact whether they know swimming or not. They perform stunts by jumping off the bridges across the canal or from the banks. Those who died in the recent past are from working class families. They go to the canal for recreation because we cannot afford to go to swimming pools or water parks,” said Raj Kumar, a resident of Kanshi Ram Colony, Pratap Vihar.
 
 
