JAIPUR: The   restrained the state government from initiating any coercive action against   which is in the eye of storm over complaints of fees hike without consulting the fee committee of the school.

 The court also issued notice to the director of secondary education and principals of two government schools who were members of an inquiry committee against the school. The case will be heard again on May 8.
 
 The division bench of Justice M N Bhandari and Justice D C Somani issued the order during the hearing of a petition by the school management challenging the   Schools (Fee Regulation) Act 2016.
 
 The school management as per an earlier direction of the court had presented the fees charged in the previous year, the hike in fees this year and the revenue and expenditure of the school.
 
 The school management informed that court that the fee hike was necessitated by the increased burden on the school due to the 7th Pay Commission pay out to the employees and teachers.
 
 The school in the affidavit tried to justify the hike in fees saying that income per student per annum is Rs 74, 819 while the cost per student per annum is estimated to be Rs 72,079 for 2018-19. It is not earning undue profit but to run the school the fee hike was necessitated, informed counsel for petitioner Prateek Kasliwal. 
 
 The state government on Monday withdrew the no objection certificate (NOC) issued to the Vidhyashram School in Jaipur for affiliation to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) for alleged violation of the Rajasthan Schools (Fee Regulation) Act, 2016.
 
 As per the Act the school had to constitute a school level fee committee to decide on the hike in fees, but the school had not followed this rule while hiking the fees.
 
 The school was found guilty of not following the rules under the Rajasthan Schools (Fees Regulation) Act 2016 by not constituting the fee committee and the directions issued by the officials under Rajasthan Non-Governmental Educational Institution Act 1989 and 1993 under section 7(3).
 
 
