CHENNAI: In what could signal the end of the plan for an International Container Transhipment Terminal at Enayam, the environment appraisal committee of the ministry of environment and forests recently gave the go-ahead for shipping ministry to do environment impact assessment study along with public hearing for the development of a Rs 19,884 crore major port at   near Kanyakumari. This has come in the wake of continued agitation by locals and fishermen of the Enayam region, stalling field activities in the last two years. The local community at Kovalam too has been opposing the multi-crore project.

 Originally, Enayam was found suitable for the port development and   government at the Centre gave in-principle approval in July 2016 and environment ministry sanctioned terms of reference for an assessment study six months later. “Following public resistance to Enayam, we explored other options. After detailed deliberations on Kovalam site, environment appraisal committee has recommended the terms of reference along with public hearing for preparation of environment impact assessment study,” VOC Port Trust chairman I   told TOI. The VOCPT is the nodal agency to execute the ambitious scheme. The panel had suggested additional terms of reference – about 33 numbers for the assessment report, including detailed biodiversity impact, traffic management and toxicity factor. The report should include an affidavit that no hazardous chemicals would be handled by the port.
 
 A stretch between Kovalam and Keelamanakudi villages was identified recently as a suitable location after detailed inspections, study of coastal morphology and the shore features, a habitation free shore stretch situated westward of Kanyakumari. The site is “the best one on technical, economic and environmental point of view,” a consultant engaged by the shipping ministry said in its pre-feasibility report. Incidentally, it was not one among the four sites – Kanyakumari, Manavalakurichi, Colachel and Enayam, identified earlier by the same consultant. In a mid-term meeting by Union shipping minister   in November, a decision was taken that VOC Port Trust should expedite the preparation of reports for an alternative to Enayam plan.
 
 Jeyakumar said the plan was to have international cruise terminal and facilities for coast guard and navy in Kovalam to reach out to the needy in times of crisis. “Our port trust and state government officials have been meeting the locals for the last three weeks to allay apprehensions. There is zero displacement of locals and no land acquisition for port construction. In all parameters, it is the best location,” said the officer. The consultant study will resume in the first week of February. The entire process will be completed in six months. 
 
 
 
