CHENNAI/PUDUCHERRY: A host of political leaders including DMK working president M K  , MDMK founder-leader  , PMK founder-leader S Ramadoss,   Congress Committee president S   and Puducherry chief minister V Narayansamy slammed the Union government for withdrawing subsidy for   pilgrims.

 Union minority affairs’ minister   who made an announcement in this regard on Tuesday, said the government will utilise the funds for the education of minorities, particularly girls. The move is part of an effort to ‘empower minorities without appeasement’, the minister had said.
 
 Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy said the withdrawal of the subsidy proved that the BJP government will continue to act against the interest of the minorities. “Violence by self-styled gau rakshaks (cow protectors), ban on cow slaughter and attack on the Christians reading their holy book, Bible, at their houses and the recent withdrawal of  , will happen only during BJP rule,” said Narayanasamy.
 
 Stronly condemning the the BJP government’s decision, DMK’s M K Stalin, termed the move as ‘regressive’. He said the BJP government has conveniently ignored the Supreme Court’s order constitutionally upholding Haj subsidy. He said the BJP government, which has failed to honour Supreme Court’s order in Cauvery water dispute and Aadhaar case, has shown a keen interest in a few selective cases proving that it has ‘hidden agendas’. “The efforts by the BJP to alter our nation’s trajectory, away from its secular and unity in diversity ideals, are insidious,” Stalin said, urging the Union government to revoke its decision immediately.
 
 Vaiko, while urging the BJP government to continue extending the subsidy, sought the government to withdraw its mandatory rule of traveling in the official carrier ( ). Vaiko said Haj pilgrims will be in a position to choose air carriers as per their convenience and comfort if the mandatory rule is revoked. 
 
 Ramadoss expressed shock and sadness over the BJP government’s swift action to discontinue the subsidy, even after the Supreme Court set the year 2022 as the deadline to withdraw the subsidy in a phased manner. He said the BJP government’s rapid action to withdraw subsidy at one go has raised several ‘doubts’ over its intention. He stressed that ferrying Haj pilgrims via sea route will not suit senior citizens and women, and sought the government to restore its Haj policy of sending the pilgrims by air.
 
 TNCC’s S Thirunavukkarasar has announced protests at 10.30am, on January 18, at all the district headquarters in the state, to condemn the Centre’s decision. He said the Modi government has a hidden agenda of targeting and harassing the minorities.
 
 
