AHMEDABAD: The violence, reportedly by Karni Sena workers in western parts of the city on Tuesday, could have been averted if the police had not ignored at least four specific intelligence inputs. Senior sources in the government said the inputs were so specific that they mentioned the place, Sanand, where the conspiracy to set multiplexes on fire was hatched.

 On Tuesday, a 2,000-strong mob had attacked five multiplexes in Vastrapur and Satellite areas of the city and torched some 70 vehicles.
 
 Near  , the mob even tried to strangle a constable. “If the sub-inspector hadn’t fired warning shots, the mob would have lynched him,” said a source in the state home department. The conspirators had mingled, in a planned manner, with people taking out a  . They wreaked havoc for about two hours at multiplex after multiplex where they went armed with swords, lathis and bottles containing inflammable substances.
 
 The sources said that the first input was received on January 21. City police were warned that in a secret meeting at Sanand, Karni Sena members had planned to set  .
 
 “The second input was received on January 22. It said that 10 theatres that were prepared to screen the film, located in Bopal, Satellite and Ashram Road, could be attacked by Karni Sena members,” a source said.
 
 According to government sources, a specific input was received on January 23. It said that groups were planning to vandalize and torch multiplexes. This is exactly what happened in the violence that erupted in the city.
 
 “Even on the evening of January 23, just before the candlelight march to protest against the film, three senior city police officials were alerted about possible violence during the march,” a source said. Sources in the home department say that city police will analyze their performance to see whether or not the violence could have been averted.
 
 “It was negligence on the part of the policemen who were part of the bandobast for the candlelight march. There were no candles. Instead there were lathis and swords carried by the marchers. The police officers in charge of the bandobast should have noticed that. How can youths on bikes take part in a candlelight march? It is common sense,” said a senior source in the government. The sources said after the ‘candlelight march’ began at Thaltej, it first vandalized   and then proceeded with swords, lathis and inflammable material towards PVR, Ahmedabad One and Himalaya Mall.
 
