Boby Kurian & Shenoy Karun | TNN

 Mumbai/Kochi: The largest India-focused   (PE) firm   and   want to buy a significant minority stake in   ( ). The move comes even as the Kerala-headquartered lender’s board is expected to consider suitors for a 30% stake this week, people directly aware of the matter said.
 
 Everstone and AION Capital — a joint venture between global PE giant   and   — are bidding separately as CSB looks to raise about $100 million in equity, selling down shares to a clutch of six investors, holding 4.99% stake each. However, both Everstone and AION are seeking the flexibility to invest a much larger pool of capital for significant minority ownership.
 
  is advising CSB, one of the oldest private sector banks in the country, on the fund-raising plan.
 
 CSB has been meeting with multiple investors for several months after Prem Watsa-led Fairfax’s takeover talks with the bank collapsed last year. Watsa was expected to acquire a 51% stake with a special   ( ) approval before talks ended over valuation differences. Recent media reports have also named Clix Capital, co-founded by former Genpact head Pramod Bhasin and ex-GE Capital CEO Anil Chawla; InCred Finance, backed by former Deutsche Bank co-CEO Anshu Jain; and Hong Kong-based SSG Capital as possible contenders for CSB shares. A CSB source confirmed that Everstone and AION were serious suitors. “They want a large enough stake with a board seat to influence the direction of the bank, and are not happy with a 4.9% stake in a syndicated deal,” said one of the sources mentioned earlier in the report. Everstone has been exploring a stake purchase in a smaller bank and has been eyeing CSB and Laxmi Vilas Bank for a while. It owns a sizeable stake in non-banking finance company IndoStar Capital, which is preparing an initial public offering, taking advantage of the investor euphoria around the financial services sector.
 
 It is not clear whether the CSB board and its fragmented shareholders would favour an investor coming in with a large shareholding. Some investors are of the view that a maximum 10% must be offered with the central bank’s approval. The CSB management’s view on how much capital is required, or whether it needs a large pool at all, would also weigh heavily in taking a decision. 
 
 The RBI had given a special approval to Fairfax, given that it was a widely held fund with global operations. Some potential investors are trying to field a proposal marrying multiple waivers granted by the RBI in the past, after the latter told the bank to come back with a credible proposal. 
 
 When contacted, the bank’s chairman T S Anantharaman said, “Many people are interested in investing in a larger percentage of shares, but at this moment we can offer only 4.99% without any trouble and anything more than that should go to the RBI.”
 
 According to him, the response from the market has been very good. “Now they all have done their due diligence and they have given us non-binding bids. From our part, we also did a due diligence — a vendor-side one — by one of those Big Four firms. And whoever gave us the non-binding bids, we shared our report with them after signing a non-disclosure agreement, and that report helps simplify and quicken matters for them. By Monday, we will have the binding bids and on Tuesday we will discuss them in the board meeting.”
 
 Everstone and AION could not be reached for comments over the weekend.
 
 
