While several   shy away from   with special needs, resource teachers in government schools are trying their level best to practice inclusivity in letter and spirit despite the raw deal given to them.

 Bindu G, a resource teacher at   Girls Higher Secondary school, Pattom, is of the view that inclusive education would help both the special children and the privileged ones. “There are children with hyper activity who would run away from classrooms. But, slowly they will change after noticing the peer group behaviour. On the other hand, in a special school, they don’t have anyone to model their behaviour,” she said. Bindu said peers who grow up with special children tend to be caring.
 
 
 Though the government gives thumbs-up to inclusive education, the concept is not receiving the support in the ground level to make it a success. While the ministry of human resources insists on a student-to -resource teacher ratio of 1:5, none of the government schools follow the norm. For example, Bindu is managing 82 children, while Jamuna Rani, another resource teacher in juggling between St. Goretti's Higher secondary School, Nalanchira and Government Higher Secondary School, Kilimanoor, where she manages 20 and 15 students, respectively.
 
 The teachers, who are doing a tedious job of caring students with various disabilities, are a neglected lot. Bindu, who has 18 years’ service, and Jamuna, with 17 years’ service, are still waiting for regularization of their jobs despite the court asking the government to consider those with over 10 years of service. “We are not getting paid on time. The work is on contract basis and lack employee benefits,” said Rani.
 
 Jameson Samuel, director of   for autism and child development at Kottayam, said that it is high time to think about inclusion. “One in 68 children in the country have developmental needs. If the schools can accommodate at least one child in a class, their classmates will be aware about the condition and will develop a helping mentality to bring them to mainstream,” he said.
 
