MUMBAI: The state consumer commission has reprimanded and penalised a foreign   for losing the original sale deed of a Mulund resident who had availed of a housing loan. It has ordered   to pay Rs 1.15 lakh compensation to   who had taken a loan of Rs 9 lakh and had repaid it.

 Shetty has been unable to sell the flat in the absence of the document which is mandatory for sale. The commission also said that if the documents are not handed over to Shetty within three months, Standard   must pay him a monthly compensation of Rs 50,000.
 
 The commission said that the bank may approach the sub-registrar to obtain a certified copy of the original sale deed and may supply the same to Shetty.
 
 “For compliance of the order by the bank, necessary cooperation shall be extended by the complainant,” the commission said.
 
 
 
 
 Directing the bank to hand over the documents, the commission further said, “We think that considering the increasing prices of flats in Mumbai, the complainant may suffer on account of not reselling the flat and to get the full and expected consideration though prices of the immovable property in Mumbai are on the rise. Therefore, a balanced view has to be taken.”
 
 Shetty had moved Maharashtra State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission after he was unhappy with the district forum’s order in 2015, awarding compensation of Rs 60,000—Rs 50,000 towards loss of the document and Rs 5,000 each for mental agony caused and costs of complaint—and issuance of the relevant documents.
 
 Shetty had availed the loan from the bank’s   branch in 2004. He told the state commission that he had, at that time, handed over the original agreement for sale dated December 1, 2001. After the complainant repaid all equated monthly instalments, the bank issued him a “no dues certificate” but the original title deed was not returned.
 
 Shetty told the commission that while the district forum had found the bank guilty of ‘deficiency in service’, it had not taken into consideration the fact that he continued to suffer as prospective flat buyers would not agree to purchase without perusal of original documents of title.
 
 While accepting Shetty’s submissions, the commission enhanced the compensation to be given for the component of causing mental agony from Rs 5,000 to Rs 50,000.
 
