Tirunelveli: People residing in and around Kannanallur village near Valliyoor in Tirunelveli district have alleged that tonnes of biomedical wastes and other wastes from neighbouring Kerala are being dumped in their locality over the last two years. They alleged that some local quarry owners are also party to this illegal act. They feared that this would result in health hazards, if no action was taken. Villagers who did not want to be named said that a few illegal stone quarries in the region were sealed a few years ago and their licences cancelled. The quarries were as deep as 200 feet in some places which was a violation of norms. They alleged that those who were operating the quarries were collecting money from those carrying wastes from Kerala and permitting them to dump them in the abandoned quarries. Apart from landfilling these quarries, that would pollute the soil and groundwater in the long run, some of these trucks bearing Kerala registration numbers were also deliberately dumping tonnes of wastes on unused lands. Villagers alleged that the police, revenue and other government officials were aware of the menace but turning a blind eye towards it. Villagers complained of bad odour emanating from these large dump yards and added that the problem worsened when it rained. They made an appeal to the police to tighten vigil on the inter-state border and the district administration to initiate action against those permitting the extensive garbage dumping in their locality. They also sought action against the officials who did not take action on the issue so far. Superintendent of Police (SP) of Tirunelveli District P Ve Arunsakthikumar said that the district police had registered at least three such cases against people bringing garbage and waste from Kerala. “Action was taken in the Panagudi and Sengottai area. Following those incidents we also tightened vigil at the inter-state check post at Puliyarai,” he said. On the dumping near Valliyoor, the SP said that they would create awareness against trucks carrying waste from the neighbouring state to Tirunelveli district at other inter-state check posts too and take action against the violators. “We will register cases and seize the trucks involved,” he added. It may be recalled that in 2016 such incidents were rampant in Coimbatore with trucks carrying tonnes of waste making their way from neighbouring Palakkad. 