NAGPUR: Two days after TOI exposed how Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) new administrative building lacks fire safety measures, more violations have come to fore at the complex. The civic body, which had started shifting various offices to the new, seven-storey headquarters, is yet to get the mandatory   too.

 Recently, NMC’s fire and emergency services department had inspected the   administrative building, and found that fire safety norms have gone for a toss.
 
 Sources said the building construction was started in 2003, and the office of executive engineer had obtained no-objection certificates from the fire and emergency services department along with sanction of the map.
 
 When the Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measure Act (MFPLSMA), 2006, came into force, the then municipal commissioner Aseem Gupta had asked architect Virendra Khare to ensure the building too follows the new rules and regulations. Subsequently, two emergency staircases had been constructed.
 
 In January 2009, architect Khare submitted a letter to the civic body about completion of the building’s construction, sources in NMC’s town planning department said.
 
 In 2013, the then civic chief Shyam Wardhane had shifted his office, along with a few other officials, to the ground floor. At that time, the civic body had obtained part occupancy and part fire compliance certificates.
 
 The part occupancy certificate clearly mentioned that it was issued only for ground floor. The department had also mentioned that the applicant — NMC’s executive engineer — should take full occupancy certificate after completion of work at the new building.
 
 While obtaining the part occupancy certificate, the EE had also submitted an indemnity bond that it would procure OC for entire building later. Despite this, NMC has shifted many of its offices without even applying for occupancy certificate for the entire building.
 
 Sources said occupancy certificate is crucial as it is issued only after structural examination by engineers, which would ensure safety of the structure and also occupants. “Besides, the builder has to comply with all fire safety norms,” said sources. 
 
 It is the duty of the town planning department to issue the certificate after compliance of fire safety norms. In this case, TP department and fire department have not issued occupancy and compliance certificates respectively.
 
 On May 9, under relevant sections of the Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measure Act (MFPLSMA), 2006, chief fire officer Rajendra Uchake had served three-hour notice to NMC executive engineer Sanjay Jaiswal, and inspected the administrative building. During inspection, the department pointed out various flaws in firefighting systems installed in the building.
 
 A senior official from the civic body said the process to procure occupancy certificate is underway.
 
 
