NAGPUR: Almost three years back, the   and the   (NGT) directed state pollution control boards to tighten the norms for slaughter houses and meat-processing units. However, till date, the monitoring of raw material seems to be left undone, thus putting up a large pressure on public health.

 While hearing a petition filed by city NGO  , the western bench of NGT on December 24, 2014, had ordered the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) to direct the concerned units to maintain records of sourcing of slaughtered animals. 
 
 Citing the precautionary principle which shifts the “burden of proof on the person asserting an activity that can raise a threat of harm to public health or environment”, the NGT had issued the directions.
 
 Following this, the   (CPCB) wrote to MPCB’s member secretary on February 25, 2015, directing it to amend the consent application for meat-processing units and including the source of raw material.
 
 But copies of various consent letters, issued to units in the state, show that the amendment regarding source of raw material is still not done. The copy was sought through a Right to Information (RTI) query filed by 83-year-old activist   who is also the president of Sukrut Nirman Charitable Trust.
 
 After fighting on the issue for years, the activist moved to the Prime Minister Office (PMO) last year, stating that the non-compliance of directives is leading to supply of “questionable meat” across the state. “Many units thrive on ‘covert outsourcing’ of meat which causes various communicable diseases in humans,” said retired veterinarian Dr Shyam Kale.
 
 Communications between June last year to this January indicate that no concrete steps were taken on Savadia’s complaint. Replying to his repeated letters, the PMO informed that his complaint was forwarded to the chief secretary of the state. 
 
 “We followed-up the matter with chief secretary’s office too. Only some days back, we received a message stating that our letter dated June 12, 2017, has been forwarded to the state’s general administration department,” said Savadia.
 
 As per the figures available with MPCB, over 64 slaughter houses across the state have been closed in the last one year. “After the court’s judgement, we had launched a drive in which all the major slaughter houses were inspected. Those found violating the laws were issued closure notices,” said MPCB member secretary P Anbalagan.
 
 He added that during the drive action was taken against units which did not maintain records regarding source of material. “The condition of declaring source of meat have been made mandatory in respect of cold storage units and meat processing industries and not for slaughter houses where animals are simply butchered,” he said, adding that steps are being taken to curb illegal slaughtering in the state.
 
 To keep a check on slaughter houses, the apex court had issued directions to constitute a state-level committee. As per the court’s order, the committee was to carry out random inspections of the slaughter houses and recommend appropriate measures for dealing with solid waste, air and water pollution caused by them.
 
 RTI reply dated January 1, 2018, reveal that the last meeting of the state’s committee was held on June 2, last year. “Post the beef ban, many slaughter houses are surreptitiously slaughtering cow progeny in the name of buffalo. They are not following a scientific method for disposing solid and liquid slaughter waste like blood, intestinal and ruminal contents, hooves and horns,” alleged Savadia. 
 
 
