LAS VEGAS: If data is the new oil, then voice is the new search. At the annual Consumer Electronics Show (CES) here in Las Vegas, voice has emerged as the new search enabler — use your words to ‘talk’ to virtual assistants and give commands right from your car to the television, light fixtures and music system at home, or the washing machine, showers and bath fittings, and even the refrigerator and microwave-oven in the kitchen.

 Amazon’s  , Google’s Assistant, and a variety of new voice-enabled devices have emerged as the big draws at the show as companies — across the board — offer products that talk to you, and get smarter with time, gaining on machine-learning and artificial intelligence.
 
 The advent of internet-of-things (IoT), which means the inclusion of sensors in almost everything that is used at home, is already adding shades of intelligence to devices. And connectivity between them, especially enabled by voice, means that you can control them by giving voice commands using Amazon’s Alexa, or Google’s Assistant, or Microsoft’s Cortana or now Samsung’s Bixby.
 
 The advent of 5G will only make this connectivity between devices faster, and seamless. Top makers such as Samsung, LG and Panasonic apart from car companies such as Mercedes Benz,  , Ford and Hyundai are all offering — or working to offer – personal voice assistants that will not only help you in your navigation, but also control many other devices and gadgets at your home.
 
 In case of automobiles, the transition will be through giant LED screens that will increasingly play a critical part as driving becomes autonomous and occupants/travelers have more time to carry out other activities, including listening to music or use social media applications.
 
 One of the most futuristic example of voice-guided assistant at the CES 2018 was that of American plumbing and bath fittings company Kohler. Kohler’s ‘Numi Intelligent Toilet’ promises to offer “personalized experiences” that lets users fine-tune every aspect of their experience to their exact preference, from coloured lighting to wireless Bluetooth music sync capability to the heated seat and foot warmer.
 
 “Numi delivers hands-free control, personalized cleansing functionality, and exceptional water efficiency,” the company — which also has a tieup with Amazon’s Alexa — says.
 
 HiMirror has joined hands with Alexa to offer an interactive smart mirror that advises you on  , uses a camera to analyse your skin and complexion and then informs you about concern areas such as wrinkles and red spots. The mirror also provides you with news,   and music which you can control through Alexa.
 
 Samsung is adding the Bixby voice assistant to a host of its devices so that you can give commands for various activities. “The time for IoT and artificial intelligence is now. IoT should make the life of consumers simpler, and easier,” H S Kim, global president of Samsung’s consumer electronics division, said.
 
 He said that the intelligence in the devices will be “based on your voice” that will enable you to easily connect. “They will have intelligence that easily understands you… that knows what you want before you even ask for it,” Samsung’s Kim said.
 
 By 2020, the company’s devices such as televisions and refrigerators will not only be IoT-compliant, but will also have intelligence, controlled by its ‘Smart Things’ platform. The remote of TVs will carry Bixby digital assistant where you can give commands for dimming lights in the house, or checking the weather and your day’s schedule, or pulling-up photos that you clicked last week, or just playing your favourite programmes. Samsung’s ‘Family Hub’ range of refrigerators talk to the washing machine, and have the capability to recognize the individual voice of every family member, and offer meal planners to them.
 
 It is believed that companies offering voice assistants are even working on ways to give them a personality for adding that ‘extra touch’ to your daily interaction which is expected to go up increasingly in the coming years.
 
 Harman, the global audio giant owned by Samsung, is now working on giving individual user experience in shared mobility, based on your retina scan.
 
 
 
 
