KOCHI:   ( ) officials have been keeping their fingers crossed hoping that the state government will give them permission for the   storage facility now that the courts have given the go-ahead. Even if the state government were to give its approval to start work on the Rs 490-crore project at Puthuvype, it could be another two years before the storage tanks would be ready for functioning. 

 
  
  
 
 While only 40% of the work has been completed on the storage facility, which was stopped on February 16, 2017, due to public protests, the Multi-User Liquid Terminal (MULT) jetty for transferring LPG has been nearing completion. IOC officials have slowed down the work on the Rs 225-crore jetty as it serves no purpose till the other facility is ready.
 
 "We are paying Rs 1 lakh to the   ( ) as rent and it is part of the nearly Rs 1-crore fine IOC has been paying to various agencies due to the delay in kick-starting the project. Of course, the state, as a whole, will get a revenue of Rs 300 crore from IOC when the plant gets functional," said S Dhanapandian, general manager, LPG project, Puthuvype.
 
 Under the project, LPG from tankers will be unloaded at the jetty and will be transferred to the storage terminal through an underground pipeline. The environment clearance from the Petroleum & Explosive Safety Organization (PESO) for MULT, the transfer pipeline and the storage terminal have been obtained.
 
 The jetty will not only be used for unloading LPG but for loading/unloading of other petroleum products, including crude oil, diesel and petrol. 
 
 As per the agreement between the IOCL and CPT, all revenue will go to the port, which is expected to get around Rs 50 crore from the jetty alone.
 
 Meanwhile, residents and LPG Terminal Virudha Janakeeya Samara Samithi are determined to go ahead with their agitation until the IOC shifts its plant from Puthuvype. "If the plant is set up and any untoward incident happens, it will affect the whole Elankunnapuzha panchayat, where the population comes to around 65,000," said K S Murali, convener of the Samithi.
 
  "The fears that the project will adversely affect the flora and fauna are baseless as LPG is a non-pollutant natural gas," said IOC general manager C N Rajendra Kumar.
 
 Officials said all the ports in the country have LPG terminals. "States like Bihar and Orissa have only 50% population using cylinders for cooking while in Kerala it is more than 100%. This facility will ensure that tankers go off the road in the state. In fact, it could become the first state in the country to have roads free of tanker trucks," Dhanapandian said.
 
 With bottling plants in Calicut and Kollam, IOC hopes to run pipelines from Thrissur to Calicut and Ernakulam to Thiruvananthapuram through the   along the national highway. According to the risk assessment analysis report done by the Projects & Development India Ltd, the acceptable total individual risk is one per million per year, said an IOC official.
 
