LUDHIANA: The teenager acid attack survivor — who has been fighting with her medical condition and horror of attack — has got help from NRIs for her treatment. The teenager’s family, who are migrant labourers, were struggling to get funds for their daughter, who is undergoing treatment in Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH).

 When the localites and even the administration remained aloof from the acid attack victim who needed money for her treatment, NGOs Seva (Social Education Voluntary Association) Trust of UK and   came ahead and lent a helping hand by donating Rs 50,000 for her treatment on Friday. Importantly, The Times of India had reported on April 7 about the teenaged survivor who was in need of money.
 
 While speaking to TOI over phone, Seva Trust UK’s founder and chairman Charan Kanwal Singh   said: “Through The Times of India, we came to know about Anjali, who is an acid attack survivor. It is horrifying that a man has attacked her with acid just because she refused to marry him. However, it is even sad that her family is unable to get her treatment done. When I read in the paper about her, I decided to raise funds for her. When we made an appeal to other NGOs to raise funds, Canadian-based NGO Global Girl Power came up and donated Rs 50,000. Today, we transferred the money to the hospital for the girl’s treatment,” he added.
 
 Sekhon and the Global Girl Power’s founder Lucky Gill — based in Vancouver (Canada) belong to   village of Ludhiana district. Gill said: “Through Seva Trust, we came to know about the case of the acid attack survivor. Our NGO works for empowering girls and women at the international level. The acid attack is an unfortunate and horrendous incident. However, we are standing by the girl to help her in all ways.”
 
 On Friday, Seva Trust district coordinator RK Kulwant Singh, Global Girl Power representative Baljodh Singh Sidhu, and social activitist   reached hospital to meet the family. On March 27, a man threw acid on the 15-year-old girl after she refused to marry him. The accused trespassed into her house in the wee hours and attacked her while she was sleeping with her mother. The girl sustained burn injuries on her face, neck, chest, and right arm, while her mother also received minor injuries.
 
 The teenager’s mother Bimla Rani said: “I am thankful to these people who have no relation with us, but are helping us in such a situation. I cannot thank them enough for this.” 
 
 
