LUCKNOW: The fight over the dalit vote bank in UP has intensified with state government claiming that it had appointed more schedule caste officers on key posts than the previous governments.

 
 The data was shared a day after TOI reported that the government would revert to the original name of Dalit icon Dr BR Ambedkar in all official records, calling him ‘Dr Bhimrao Ramji Aambedkar’ as signed by him in the Constitution. It has also made it mandatory for all government offices to put up photographs of Ambedkar by April 1.
 
 
 To counter allegations by opposition parties BSP and SP that BJP was anti-dalit, the government said that 25 district magistrates and seven divisional commissioners are from SC or OBC categories, making up 33% and 39% of the total posts respectively. Similarly, said an official, 25 top police officer are from the dalit community. “During the SP rule, this was not even 25% of what it is today,” he said.
 
 
 “The principal secretary (home) is dalit, as are ADGs of Gorakhpur and Bareilly. There are three IGs/DIGs who are Dalit as are nine SSPs and two SPs. About 12 principal secretary-level officers are dalits. In fact, the past governments had totally   while under the Yogi government, they have been duly recognized,” an officer said.
 
 
 Dalit voters, who had swung in BJP’s favour during the 2017 assembly elections to ensure a massive victory for the party, appeared to have supported the SP-BSP combine in the recently concluded Gorakhpur and Phulpur bypolls where BJP lost both the seats. With the 2019 elections just a few months away, the ruling party is trying its best to wrest back the support of the backward communities by paying homage to the Dalit icon.
 
 
 In fact, in the recent Rajya Sabha elections where BSP candidate BR Ambedkar lost despite support from SP, BJP “warned” Mayawati against relying on “the anti-dalit SP”. CM Yogi said that while it won the bypolls with BSP’s support, it failed to send the lone BSP candidate to the RS while ensuring that its own candidate won.
 
 
 Health minister and BJP spokesperson Siddharthnath Singh accused BSP Supremo Mayawati of using dalits for votes, saying that those who could not even take Ambedkar’s name correctly, could not follow his ideals or philosophy. “Baba Saheb himself wrote his name as Dr Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar in the eight schedule of the Constitution. He should be called by his correct name and it should also be spelt correctly. The country runs on the principals of great people and at least their names should be used correctly,” he said.
 
 
 Dismissing the government's claim of having posted more Dalit and backward caste officers as DMs and district police chiefs as mere tokenism,   chief spokesperson   said it was not about how many officers it had posted but the government’s policies which are questionable. “They have left farmers, youths, Dalits and the under privileged in a lurch. Instead of counting officers on the basis of their castes, the government should spell out the welfare schemes that it has launched for the deprived. But they will not do this because they have done nothing for them,” Chaudhary said.
 
 
