SURAT : A 26-year-old Congress worker from   was stabbed to death allegedly by eight persons near his residence early morning on Wednesday over personal animosity. The victim Gufran Chirag Mansuri,  , was rushed to a private hospital but was declared dead on arrival. Police booked eight persons and arrested three of them in connection with the murder.

 The family of the deceased had submitted written complaints several times to Limbayat police and city police commissioner’s office over the past five months alleging threat to Mansuri’s life from the accused. They had expressed fear to their lives claiming that the accused had been moving in their area with deadly weapons.
 
 Police has arrested Gaffar Sha, Salman alias   and   for their alleged involvement in the murder of Mansuri. Five other accused have escaped after the murder. 
 
 After Mansuri’s murder, his family members stopped the police from taking the body from a private hospital in   for postmortem. A large crowd had gathered outside the hospital and shouted slogans against the police for its inaction despite several complaints. After several hours of talks, Mansuri’s family members allowed police to take the body for postmortem.
 
 Mansuri and others in his group had developed professional rivalry with the accused since past few months, police informed. A finger of one of the accused involved in Mansuri’s murder had got chopped during a group clash five months ago. 
 
 Members of both groups including Mansuri were arrested by Limbayat police then. After coming out on bail, the tussle between the groups continued and the accused threatened to kill Mansuri and his friends to take revenge for loss of his finger. 
 
 “Mansuri and his friends had earlier informed police that the rival group was demanding Rs 5 lakh for compromise for the loss of the finger. Since then, Mansuri was their target and on getting an opportunity they killed him,” said a police officer.
 
 Family members alleged that the accused involved in Mansuri’s murder used to collect rent from all goods vehicles parked on the road. Mansuri and his friends had developed disputes with the accused over collection of money.
 
 
