TRICHY: Banana growers breathed sigh of relief when Anand Kumar Singh, deputy director general (horticulture science and crop science) from Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) said that there are no plans to relocate or shut down the National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB). But the senior official from ICAR, who was in   on Saturday for the silver jubilee celebrations of  , cautioned them and other research centres under ICAR to fulfill the purpose of establishing such high-class research centres or face the axe.

 Addressing the gathering during the silver jubilee celebration at the NRCB campus in   near Trichy, Singh said, “Now, banana cultivation is going on even in non-conventional areas. Considering the scenario, there might be a call to setup NRCB in another area. We have a greater challenge ahead of us in fulfilling the responsibility in promoting banana cultivation.” His address during the silver jubilee celebration was considered as a caution call among the farmers as the senior scientist emphasized the necessity for NRCB to prove its potential in developing strategies and plans for improving banana cultivation and to fulfill the expectations of ICAR. “We (ICAR) are making a list of well performing research centres in last five years. The research centres that are missing in the list prepared based on performance may face axing. There is a big financial burden on ICAR and the number of centres has to be curtailed,” Singh said.
 
 When queried about the functioning of NRCB Trichy, scientists in the centre claimed that they are performing well. Meanwhile, there were also requests from farmers and NABARD not to relocate or undermine the functioning of NRCB Trichy. “We are worried and scared by a message that the NRCB is to be relocated. Please leave the glory of the institute to continue. Bring an incubation centre here in NRCB to promote entrepreneurs,” said G Ajeethan, secretary, TN Banana Producers Company Limited. Speaking about the prospects, the senior scientist added that they are studying the demand in foreign nations to promote production of native banana species and utilize the demand for financial upliftment of banana farmers.
 
 On its silver jubilee year celebrations, ICAR-NRCB said that the centre has released three varieties of banana and three more are in pipeline. Four promising hybrids have been developed by the centre which includes a high yielding carotene-rich table purpose Nendran banana which can be consumed without steaming. Scientists in NRCB said that interventions of the research centre has extended the pan-India area of growing banana from four lakh to eight lakh hectares and has increased the production from 12 million tonnes to 30 million tonnes.
 
 
