Steeped in antiquity, Madurai is the oldest city in Tamil Nadu. It had been ruled by the Pandyas, repeatedly annexed by the Cholas, ruled by Muslim rulers for a while, it had come under a lengthy period under the Nayaks, and finally landed in the hands of the British. And for a city so rich in history, it has one of the oldest modern municipalities — created in 1866, after Madras. The city still has some of the first civic amenities set up during the British Raj, such as giant Swiss-made pumps installed in 1920, which are still functioning inside the Santhaipettai pumping station. While many structures and facilities that were a part of the civic infrastructure of a bygone era are in a dilapidated condition and cry for attention, many like the Albert Victor Bridge have withstood the test of time and are still functional. Not just amenities, but the systematic manner in which the civic body functioned is a matter of nostalgia for senior citizens. Septuagenarian S V K M K Sukumaran of Vengalakadaitheru, during an earlier interaction, recalled an incident from his childhood days: The year was 1945, when he was five or six. One day he ran to the street to relieve himself on finding the sole toilet in his house occupied. "The sanitary inspector caught me red handed with my trousers down, dragged me to home, and imposed a fine of Rs 2. The entire family scrapped every saving from the house to pay the fine because it was a huge sum then," he recalled and added with a sigh, "these days, passers-by often urinate into the open drain near my house. I am helpless." "We had limited facilities then, but the corporation staff, including sanitary workers, were so much dedicated. Sanitary workers came to collect trash every day without fail, open drains were so well-maintained and there were no mosquitoes at all as we slept in the front yard of our houses," says K Janarathanan, 58 from Vandiyur. That rich heritage of the civic body is just a memory; under the present corporation, the city has clogged drains, overflowing manholes and drinking water mixed with sewage. Besides, the structures of the old civic body are decaying with time. A Kumar, a shopkeeper at Kadharkhan Butler Street in Kamarajarsalai, recently had a harrowing time explaining to bunch of corporation workers who had come with metal-cutters to take away a British-era iron pump of in front of his shop. "They said that I had encroached the pavement with that pipe and it took tedious explaining to make them understand how old it was. We were told by our elders that it was a pipeline connection ending here, as this was the boundary of the old city during the British period.  Convener of the Madurai chapter of Intach (Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage) Aravind Kumar Sankar said preserving municipal heritage was crucial. 