BENGALURU: She wants to donate a kidney to a friend, but her family has opposed it.  , 48, who was stopped by government intervention too, has now petitioned the high court. She has sought quashing of the government communication as well as pleaded expedition of granting permission for the organ transplant.

 
 The intended recipient, a defence personnel, has been suffering from chronic kidney failure since August 2017 and has been on dialysis thrice a week since November 2017. He’s her family friend and to be able to donate a kidney,   has shed 14kg and undergone several tests since October 2017.
 
 On April 10, the health and family welfare department sent a letter to hospitals which have authorized transplant panels to put on hold her intended donation. TOI was the first to report the story on April 19 when the government sent a letter to organ transplant authorization panels in some private hospitals and the state body not to go ahead with thecasefollowing a requestby the woman’s sister, an IAS officer.
 
 In her petition to the high court, Varsha also sought an inquiry against officers responsible for issuance of the letter. The high court, in its interim order on May 10, said the state authorization panel must take a decision on the matter within 24 hours after the application is filed by the private hospital.
 
 Columbia Asia Hospital, Hebbal, where the patient and donor are consulting for the transplant, said the required papers will be submitted before the committee. However, Varsha said all the required documents have been submitted. “I don’t require a No-Objection Certificate from my family. I don’t want to see him in pain anymore. He’s as good as my blood relative, like my brother. His condition is worsening day by day,” Varsha told TOI.
 
 In her petition, she mentioned that she had always nurtured a lot of respect for the armed forces and has executed a will in which she has bequeathed her moveable and immoveable properties to the   and mentioned that upon her death, all her donatable organs should be donated to army personnel.
 
  
  
 
