 (23), a television actress was found hanging from the ceiling of her flat. She was a part of the Bengali serial ‘Swapno Udan’. 

 According to the police, Moumita was suffering from mental depression due to lack of professional success. Moumita is not alone. There are other instances as well when mental depression has taken a toll on celebs. In 2015, popular television actress   Ganguly committed suicide. She was a known face of the television circuit and part of successful serials like 'Bou Kotha Kao', 'Kanakanjali' and 'Tumi Ashbe Bole'.
 
 According to psychologists, the life of struggling actresses like Moumita is not easy. High expectations, lack of work and money, issues like casting couch make things worse. Sometimes this pressure affects them so much that they start taking drugs in search of temporary relief. Taking drug or consuming excessive alcohol makes the situation even more vulnerable.
 
 Madhumita Sarkar, the lead actress of ' ', had shared screen space with Moumita. She said, "I remember her. She used to play one of my friend's role. It is an unfortunate incident." When asked about the pressure of struggling actors, she said, "I started working at the age of 14. Simultaneously I was studying and acting. I did a serial which didn’t have good TRPs. Then for a long period I couldn't bag any other project. But I continued my journey and started working even harder. One should not succumb to the pressure"
 
  
  
 Actress Manali De, who was a co-actor of Disha in a very popular show 'Bou Kotha Kao' said, "Disha was my best friend. I was in utter shock when she committed suicide. Sometimes personal and professional issues affect us a lot and I know how hard it is to bear the pain. But no matter what we should continue fighting. At the end of the day such drastic steps affect our family. I still keep in touch with Disha's parents. I can only imagine what they have gone through.” 
 
 Psychoanalyst   said, "There is pressure in every profession. The fact is that we have become very impatient. That's why we see a student committing suicide over issues like parents not buying him or her clothes or mobile phone." She explained that under such circumstances one should talk to the parents or someone they could rely on. "Mental depression is a common issue. But there is a social stigma attached to it. Moreover celebs are apprehensive while approaching for help since they fear that the incident will become a public issue", Jhelum added.
  
 Manali Chakravarty, an actor who started her career from television and recently did films like, 'Yours Truly', 'Memories in March' and others, shared that she too like any other actor went through a lot of struggle. "We all have issues in our life. Personally I share problems with my parents because they can give me support which no one else can", Manali added.
 
 
 
