

  has fallen to an abysmal low in moving a motion of impeachment after the Supreme Court’s B H Loya judgment. Apparently, it was issuing threat of a motion to deflect course of the judgment in Loya case in favor of its political interest. And when the judgment did not meet its expectations, Congress filed the motion. 
 
 The move is also intended to delay hearing of Babri Masjid case, as regards which   made fervent pleas to the court. The motion is ill advised and founded on baseless charges. Its purpose is only to compel Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra to recuse.
 
 Congress knows no inquiry will end by the time the   retires. It also knows it lacks strength in   to succeed. So this is not an impeachment motion but a recusal motion.
 
 Basing on the K Veeraswamy judgment [(1991) 3 SCC 655] Congress hopes to ask for recusal of the CJI from court functioning. It is true that in the case the then CJI asked the judge to step down during the committee of enquiry proceedings. 
 
 But the intervention was not mechanical, but based on the nature of charges. Here the charges are bogus. The frivolousness can be gauged by the attempt to pick an allegation relating to land pertaining to before the CJI’s elevation as a judge of the high court.
 
 Remember it was a Congress government who appointed him in 1996 and then as Chief Justice of Patna High Court in December, 2009 and again as Chief Justice of Delhi High Court in May 2010, and finally to the   on October 10, 2011. So, one can assume that Congress did not attach any weight or worth to the charge. Two other charges relate to intra-court functioning and assignment of cases.
 
 Here it draws sustenance from Justice Chalameshwar J. order, which itself is questionable to say the least. Then there is a medical college order which has no substance either. There is no basis for any recusal on a moral basis.
 
 Ordinarily, a judge once appointed is entitled to function unless impeached by a motion passed by Parliament or at least till found guilty by the committee of enquiry.
 
 There is no constitutional provision of suspension pending enquiry. A judge is not an ordinary government employee. For good reason no such provision is included in Article 124 of the Constitution or even in law. Any such provision would have been utilised by political parties to blackmail judges.
 
 There is no constitutional convention for recusal on filing or admission of a motion of impeachment. K Veeraswamy should be understood in its context. It creates no convention. A single swallow does not make a summer.
 
 There can be no convention against the tenor and context of the Constitution. One wonders what consequences would flow if BJP MPs move a motion against the four judges who gave vent to their grievances against the CJI’s rostering without consulting other brother judges. We know that a bench presided by Justice   had called former SC judge M Katju to court to explain his comment on a judgment and made him apologise.
 
 What happens if BJP MPs treat conduct of four judges as an obstruction in the course of justice and therefore, a criminal contempt and move a motion? Then would these judges have to recuse? I hope the BJP MPs are well advised to refrain. Political parties must not fish in internecine conflicts in the judiciary.
 
 Let judges rise, and grab this moment of history, and together strengthen independence of the judiciary. Congress should withdraw its motion and abandon its death wish. It will get no political dividends.
 
 The power of impeachment rests in both Houses of Parliament with two thirds majority. No motion can be deemed admitted unless presented both to the Speaker and Chairman, and tabled before both Houses. Since the motion has to be passed separately any one House can admit the motion. But submission by Congress to the Chairman does not trigger an inquiry. Independence of judiciary should be placed on sounder footings. There is no case for recusal. Let not judges be a play thing of politicians.
 
 
 
 
 
