THIRUVANANTHAPURAM : Police have zeroed in on a few WhatsApp groups based in northern   and south Karnataka, which have instigated a hartal in the state in the name of protest against the rape and murder of an eight-year-old girl in Kathua.

 The groups have been trying to use the police action against hartal perpetrators as a means to stoke communal fires, they said.
 
 Top police sources said some such groups have begun putting up hate posts on the social media in the name of the   (SDPI) and the   (SIO) alleging nexus between the   and the  . In the posts, they allege the police were being used to supress their protests against the RSS.
 
 While some posters call for ending police action against hartal perpetrators others warn of massive protests if the police continue their action against those who have been arrested.
 
 Sources said some groups have been trying to create a communal rift by circulating hate messages and such groups have come under observation of the police. “Some of the hardliners have been using WhatsApp groups to spread venomous messages in the name of protests against the Kathua incident. It is too early to say if they have any extremist connections but it is often such people who end up being used by anti-national forces. Their activities are being carefully analysed by the police,” a top official said. Sources added that the groups, which have been trying to capitalise on the post-hartal arrests, have sprung into action in northern districts and have been sending voice messages as well urging protests against the police action, asking people to gather at specific locations. “Those who have been trying to exploit the situation are bent on keeping it alive and are urging people to hold more protests, but they are seemingly failing to evoke large-scale response. It could be because of the increased police surveillance,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, in addition to the crime branch that has been probing the source of the messages that called for the hartal, the technology experts in the police in individual districts, especially in northern districts, have also begun snooping into the roots of such groups that have been spreading hate messages.
 
  leader arrested in Kozhikode: Police have arrested Sajeer Mathottam, Beypore division president and district committee member of the   (PFI), in connection hartal-related violence on Monday. Beypore police said Sajeer was arrested after verifying the videos of the incidents. “A violent mob had blocked the road at Mathottam. One ASI was injured in the incident,” a police official said. The PFI leader was arrested on charges of disrupting the duty of police and holding procession without prior consent.
 
 Meanwhile, PFI leadership said Sajeer was picked up by the police when he arrived at the Akshyaya Kendram, along with wife and children. “We will fight the conspiracy hatched by the police and the BJP legally and through popular agitation,” said a press release issued by PFI district president K K Kabeer.
 
