VISAKHAPATNAM: The   at the   College of Engineering is almost ready and is likely to be inaugurated next month. 

 The varsity has tied up with the German conglomerate to set up the Centre of Excellence. As per the tie-up, Siemens is supposed to invest Rs 300 crore to build the world-class integrated skill development infrastructure, of which AU has already received about Rs 60 crore worth of heavy equipment for the one-of-its-kind facility.
 
 The centre, with 15 special labs, is being designed as a complete learning solution facility to build specific skills and equip the students with expertise in engineering and manufacturing sectors. Some of these 15 labs include Robotics, Instrumentation, Prototype and CNC, which will be scattered in various departments of the college. The Centre of Excellence is also expected to boost industry-academia partnership.
 
 AU vice-chancellor Prof G Nageswara Rao visited the facility on Wednesday and asked officials to conclude the ongoing works by the end of this month. “The centre will empower students with the required competencies to suit industry needs and expectations. Students will also get an opportunity to upgrade their knowledge and gets hands-on training in manufacturing and other industry domains,” said Prof Rao.
 
 Currently, the   has about 7,000 students, with more than 1,500 students in its   department alone. Students trained at the Centre of Excellence will also be given certification in the particular domain, which will make their skills visible to prospective employers. Students from other educational institutions will also be offered training at the centre at nominal charges, while it will be completely free for AU students.
 
 AU registrar Prof V Umamaheswara Rao said Andhra Pradesh Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) director   recently visited the centre, and added that they are hoping to get the chief minister for its inauguration. 
 
 “We are waiting for confirmation from the CMO. We want the CM to inaugurate the Centre of Excellence,” he said. APSSDC, in partnership with Siemens, came up with the concept of six ‘Centre of Excellence’ clusters in 2015. The clusters would be located in engineering colleges of the state, which will act as hubs and five t-SDIs (technical – Skill Development Institutes) as spokes.
 
 
