CHANDIGARH: The  , which is investigating a land acquisition scam that led to loss of around Rs 1,500 crore to farmers in Haryana's Gurgaon district, has another uphill task at hand ahead of the trial. It has to supply a copy of the 80,000-page chargesheet to each of the 34 accused, including former CM  . 

 The   has to prepare a colossal 27.2 lakh pages for the 34 sets. After preparation of these sets, the agency has to transport them the CBI court in Panchkula to be handed to all the accused in the case. The CBI had carried the voluminous chargesheet in two steel almirahs to the court on February 2. The agency will face a logistical nightmare when it has to transport all the 34 sets to Panchkula.
 
 
  
 
 Sources said that court staffers are currently numbering the pages of the chargesheet. At the same time, CBI officials are working overtime to prepare 34 sets on heavy duty photocopiers.
 
 After the 2G scam case chargesheet, this is the second such voluminous chargesheet prepared by the CBI. In April 2015, CBI had filed a chargesheet against former Union minister A Raja and eight others and three telecom companies in the 2G spectrum allocation scam. The CBI officials said the Manesar land scam case chargesheet was as voluminous as that of the 2G case that was served to nine accused. 
 
 For serving copies of the chargesheet to all the 34 accused on the same day, the agency would have to engage a number of vehicles for transportation of the documents. “We will follow the law of the land. The copies will be sent to the court as it has been done in other cases. We will complete the procedure. Our priority is to ensure that the case meets its logical end,” said a CBI spokesperson.
 
 He said it was too early to comment as there were various stages to be followed before providing copies of the chargesheet to the accused. “We have done this in 2G case and we will do it here as well,” the CBI spokesperson said. According to provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, once the trial court takes the cognizance of the matter, the accused are to be provided by the copies of chargesheet prepared by the probing agency.
 
 “Here the question is of framing charges against the accused. Once the court starts framing charges, we will provide the copies at the same time. The court has not summoned anybody in the matter so far,” said another CBI official. Hooda and 33 other accused, including serving and retired bureaucrats of Haryana’s town and country planning department and builders, have been named as accused in the chargesheet.
 
 
