NAGPUR: The total ban on plastic carry bags in state is likely to affect local plastic industry that may lead to unemployment for many in Hingna and Butibori MIDC industrial estates.

 When the government was planning the ban, the state industrial development corporation had given sanction to a local unit early this year to set up a plastic manufacturing unit in MIDC Hingna. The industrialist Manish Jain had also obtained no objection certificate to run his unit from   on November 15 last year. 
 
 
  
 Jain said he had procured Rs 4.68 crore loan and set up Rs 10 crore Aarjav Polyprint Pvt Ltd in MIDC Hingna. With the ban, he faces the prospect of not only defaulting on bank loans but his 90 employees also face unemployment. The government’s proposed blanket ban on plastic bags as well as plastic packaging material and production of such material will adversely impact thousands of people engaged in the industry such as manufacturers, employees, dealers, and consumers.
 
 Secretary of Vidarbha Plastics Industries Association, Harish Mantri said the ban of polythene carry bags will render almost 1,00,000 people jobless in city alone. “Nagpur district has 70 to 80 small and medium plastic bag manufacturing units and entire business size is pegged at Rs 3-5 crore per day,” informed Mantri. 
 
 Apart from this, over 1,000 women in old city areas like Lalganj, Vaishali Nagar, Shanti Nagar etc work from home packaging food items and artificial jewelry. “They too would be rendered jobless,” said a wholesale dealer of plastic products in Itwari area. 
 
 The association has welcomed Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s ban on usage of plastic bags under 50 microns in thickness. According to association insiders, there is hardly any unit that produces bags below 50 microns. Several units from   had been supplying bags to cater to the demand here as poor implementation of ban failed to curtail its usage.
 
 “We want to work together with authorities in ensuring the plastic does not cause any damage to environment,” Jain said. Many producers and dealers of various plastic articles emphasized the need to control its littering through consumer awareness instead of a blanket ban on its production and sale.
 
 According to producers, plastic waste can be reused and ragpickers are aready doing this. They also cited examples of hundreds of ragpickers active in   dumping yard collecting plastic waste.
 
 
