KOLHAPUR: With the increase in the number of passengers and an increase in the average number of buses plying on the roads per day, the losses of   have significatly dropped, according to the Economic Survey 2017, which was released on Thursday. 

 The survey reports on the operational status of all public transport systems run by the civic bodies. 
 
 Every year, the government's economic arm publishes the survey which tells about the status of the transport system based on some criterias—average number of buses on road every day, average number of commuters per day, average effective distance covered and net profit or loss.
 
 In 2016,   faced lossses upto Rs 6.92 crore which plummeted to Rs 4.18 crore in 2017. With the increase in the number of buses from 101 to 107, the number of passengers also increased from 60,000 to 66,000. 
 
 KMT officials said the measures they have implemented in the last few years have helped bridge the losses, for instance introduction of new buses and shunting the trips along the routes facing losses. 
 
 Acting additional manager of KMT Sanjay   said, "Every day, KMT is facing losses. The public transport system is not meant to be in profit as we have to provide cheaper as well as effective service to the people especially when there is stiff competition from private transport services. We have ensured that the new buses inducted in the fleet take more trips along the routes which have more passengers. Many buses are deployed during the peak hours. Tweaking the schedule of the buses has led to increase in the number of passengers."
 
 The significant decline in the losses is mainly because of increase in the passenger strength and reduction in the cost of maintenance. During 2016 and 2017, the average effective kilometres operated per day was at 24,000km per day as against 22,000km per day earlier. The increase in the effective distance travelled is due to the cancellation of trips to the fringe villages that were not yielding revenue. 
 
 “We have installed GPS machines in the buses which help track the buses and accordingly the stages along the routes are managed. We are soon going to start 'non-stop' buses along the routes where the passenger count is more and will help provide speedy transport service. The increase in the diesel prices and expenses of the staff worries us. However, we are sure that over a couple of years, the losses will come down further and the service will become better,” added Sarnaik.
 
 
