BENGALURU:   assembly constituency goes to the polls on June 11 and dissidence is hindering the BJP’s fight to retain the seat. Considered a   stronghold, Jayanagar has seven BBMP wards, six of which are represented by councillors from the saffron party. But, they have all rebelled at the choice of candidate for the assembly seat.

 
 The party’s decision to go with B N Prahlad Babu, a political novice, has upset these well-established politicians.
 
 Former mayor S K Nataraj, councillors N Nagaraj (Byrasandra) and R Govinda Naidu (Jayanagar East) and former councillor C K Ramamurthy whose wife H C Nagarathna Ramamurhty represents Pattabhiramanagar ward, were all aspirants for the ticket. While Nagaraj has stayed away from campaigning, the others are sulking. 
 
 "The general feeling among the people of Jayanagar is that the BJP should have fielded someone who has served the constituency as a councillor for years," said Nataraj, whose wife K N Lakshmi Nataraj is councillor from J P Nagar ward in the segment.
 
 The elections in Jayanagar were countermanded and subsequently rescheduled after sitting MLA and BJP candidate B N Vijay Kumar died of a heart attack on May 4. After weighing different options, the state BJP leadership zeroed in on Babu, Vijay Kumar’s younger brother.
 
 Nataraj believes that had he been the candidate, a BJP win would have been certain. He reasoned that J P Nagar ward, which he thrice represented in the BBMP council, has now been divided into three wards — J P Nagar, Sarakki and Shakambari Nagar — which are all part of Jayanagar assembly segment.
 
 And while Nataraj insisted the party is united, the ground reality, however, appears different. A core committee meeting convened by senior BJP leader R Ashoka to iron out the differences turned out to be a damp squib with a couple of councilors, including Byrasandra Nagaraj, staying away.
 
 "It is pretty clear that BJP supporters are unhappy with the candidate. I don’t want to say anything more," said Nagaraj. Govinda Naidu said the party is struggling in the absence of a popular candidate.
 
 Senior BJP leaders, however, exuded confidence that the constituents will back Babu because of his familial ties with Vijay Kumar. "There was disgruntlement initially but the issues have been sorted out," said Subba Narasimha, BJP treasurer and in-charge of Jayanagar campaign.
 
 
 
 Prospects of Congress candidate Sowmya Reddy has brightened, after the Janata Dal (Secular) said it will opt out of the race.
 
 “The party has taken a decision to back Congress in Jayanagar. An official communication is yet to be made to our candidate, Kale Gowda, in this regard,” JD(S) Bengaluru city president R Prakash said.
 
 JD(S) sources said Kale Gowda is reluctant to retire from the contest.
 
 
