UDHAGAMANDALAM: Refuting a report of the Census Directorate on   and Kota dialects of the Nilgiris tribes are being considered endangered and may be heading towards extinction, the Tribal Research Centre (TRC) in Ooty maintained that both the languages (indigenous to the Nilgiris) are very much in existence among the people of the tribes. According to TRC, it is taking effort by all means to protect the languages of all the tribes in the Nilgiris and workshops are being conducted to encourage the tribal groups to protect their languages. 

 The population of Todas and Kotas are only in few thousands in the Nilgiris and their dialects lack script. 
 
 Director of TRC P Subramanian told TOI, “Among the tribal groups of Todas and Kotas, their language is very much alive. Also, their population is meagre compared to other tribals in Tamil Nadu. But their dialects are strong among them.” He said, “The Census 2011 is authentic as of now when it comes to their population”.
 
 According to him, a process of baseline survey of all the tribal groups, particularly vulnerable primitive tribal groups in the Nilgiris, is under way. The process of survey is all about the population and languages of the vulnerable tribal groups. “The process of survey will be over in a month. Then we will have a better picture of the tribal groups in the Nilgiri hills,” he added.
 
 “In the meantime, we are creating awareness among the tribal groups by conducting workshops to preserve their languages. In other words, they are being encouraged to protect their languages,” Subramanian added.
 
 Kanagaraj, a Kota tribe from Kundha Menadu hamlet said, “In no way our language is at extinction. We are a small group of tribals, indigenous to the Nilgiri hills.” He added, “We respect our language so much so that we don’t allow our children to address the parents ‘mummy and daddy’. Our language rules us in our daily life.” 
 
 Vasamalli, one of the Toda leaders, said, “Though our community is very small in number, we cannot say our dialect is endangered. It had been surviving throughout our ancestor’s time and it will till Nilgiri exists”.
 
 Six tribal communities, such as Todas, Kotas, Kurumbas, Paniyas, Kattunayakan and Irular, dwell in the Nilgiri plateau. Among the six tribal groups, Todas and Kotas, considered as primitive tribes and are native to the Nilgiris while other four tribes found elsewhere too.
 
 According to Census 2011, the population of Toda and Kota stands at 2,978 and 3,110 respectively. While Kotas dwell in seven settlements, Todas are living in about 50 hamlets, each comprising approximately 5 to 15 houses.
 
 
