NEW DELHI: Since   took charge,   brass has been laying extra focus on the party’s research department to flag issues and provide information to its leaders as well as the   unit for better media projection.

 
 The new party chief is working towards building “strong internal think tanks” that will ensure that “the party drives the policy” rather than depend only on external sources for it, said party leaders working closely with Rahul to develop this new architecture.
 
 The research cell of the party is being geared to provide all information. The format is much like the manner in which the Labour Party functions in the UK or Democrats in the US, explained a party source. It’s like Germany which has party foundations while Japan has its own model of think tanks, sources said. The Congress research department, headed by academic and Rajya Sabha MP Rajeev Gowda and his pack of about 15 youths including women, has now been assigned to set up a research department in every state by April this year. 
 
 While a group of researchers were helping the party’s parliamentary team, it was expanded to form the department in July, 2017.
 
 Apart from a handful of interns, there are about 12 full-time researchers who had their first big outing during the recent Gujarat elections and are working for Tripura, Meghalaya and Karnataka elections at the moment.
 
 The team is working closely with the Punjab government at present to bring out the first anniversary issue of its achievements in power in the state.
 
 Among states, Congress units in Telengana and Madhya Pradesh have already approached the department to set up teams in their respective states. A seven-member group from Telengana was in Gujarat to learn from the experience of the central team that was deputed there. Madhya Pradesh goes to assembly polls later this year and in Telengana, Congress is hopeful of to gain ground.
 
 Sources said   (CLP) leaders in different states are also going to be supported by the respective state teams as part of Rahul’s overall plan. Several CLP leaders have shown keen interest in this new style of functioning.
 
