KOLKATA: A man waiting for a bus in front of   was killed after a lamp post, knocked by a bus, fell on him around 10.45am on Thursday. The Diamond Harbour-Esplanade bus (Route No. SD-18 ) was allegedly racing with another one when the driver lost control and rammed into three lamp posts one after another. The second one fell on the victim,   (35).

 A resident of Garagachha Road, Ram was waiting for a Dalhousie-bound bus to reach his office when the bus speeding down the Taratala flyover hit the lamp posts. A hawker said, “The SD-18 driver tried to swerve right to overtake another bus which suddenly stopped in front of it and blocked its path. Losing control, he then veered left at a high speed and rammed into the lamp posts.”
 
 Ram was rushed to SSKM Hospital, where he was declared dead. Two of the bus passengers, who suffered minor injuries, were discharged after they were administered first aid.
 
 “Ram was standing close to the second lamp post which fell on his head and knocked him down. The driver tried to flee, but the locals gave him a chase and caught him and handed him over to the police. The Mint crossing was manned by a few sergeants and the traffic flow was heavy. The driver admitted that he was racing with another bus for some extra passengers,” said an investigator.
 
 In a statement, police said the   occurred after the driver lost control over the vehicle. Cops said the Mint crossing is accident-prone with speeding buses approaching form either side — Majerhat bridge and Taratala flyover. A bus bay is there, but most buses don’t follow it and run along multiple lanes at high speed as the signal turns green.
 
 With the record rise of diesel price and unchanged fair, buses frequently race to pick up maximum passengers to remain in business. “The drivers work under immense stress as their income is dwindling, thanks to the rise in fuel prices. Unless the fare is revised, this unhealthy practice will continue. No matter how many cautions we issue, they fall into deaf ears,” said   of Joint Council of Bus Syndicate.
 
