JAIPUR: Whatever be the age of a mother, she is always protective towards her children. At the ripe age of 68, Kela Devi is healthy enough to save her son’s life by donating her own kidney. When she came to know that her eldest son Govind Nehra’s kidneys have failed due to injudicious consumption of pain killers, she volunteered to donate her kidney to her son.

 In   (SMS) Hospital, three mothers were admitted on Sunday, who have donated their kidneys to their children. However, a private hospital, which has completed more than 500 kidney transplants claimed that their nephrology ICU ward for transplant patient is full of mothers who did not think twice before donating their kidneys to their children.
 
 If mothers would not have volunteered, at least 60% of the patients who got kidney transplants would have been living a difficult life or might not have been living at all. According to city-based nephrologists, nearly 60% of the kidney transplants become possible because of mothers donating their kidneys to save their children’s lives.
 
 Kela Devi belongs to   village of Hanumangarh. In this age, majority of the persons are not eligible for donating kidney as they themselves suffer from diseases like diabetes, hypertension, heart ailment or other life-threatening diseases. But, in case of Devi, she was healthy and her good health proved as a blessing in disguise for her son, who received her kidney and is now recovering at a private hospital in the city. The surgery was conducted on May 9. Mother and son will be discharged from the hospital soon. “I also volunteered to donate my kidney but my mother was adamant to donate her kidney as she loves Govind most among her three children,” said Nanu Ram Nehra, Govind’s brother.
 
 “Govind’s kidneys failed due to irrational consumption of pain killers. But thanks to his mother, who is 68 and healthy enough to donate her one kidney, he was saved. In at least 60% of total kidney transplants have become possible in our hospital only because of mothers donating their kidney to their children,” said Dr Suraj Godara, consultant nephrologist and transplant physician at a private hospital, claiming to have conducted more than 500 kidney transplants till date.
 
 Another mother, 55-year-old Santosh Devi, is recovering at a private hospital after donating her kidney to her son. Whole world came crashing down around her when she learnt that her son Rajendra Yadav’s kidneys had failed. “I can only say at this moment that my son has got another life,” she said, on Sunday, while recovering at a private hospital after donating her kidney.
 
 Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital senior professor (nephrology) Dr   said, “If mother or father donate kidney, it has its own benefits for the patients. The chances of rejection of kidney are quite less and also patient (recipient) has to take less immunosuppressive medicines.”
 
 Dr Agarwal said, “In  , more than 400 kidney transplants have been conducted in which more than 200 mothers donated their kidneys to their children.”
 
 
