 Telly couple   and  , who will be getting married today in   in Uttar Pradesh, are painting the town red with their love as they posed for a DDLJ-themed pre-wedding shoot. Dipika looked every bit a Punjabi kudi in her yellow suit for the haldi ceremony held on Tuesday. (Right) A pic posted on Instagram by Shoaib (BCCL)

  
  A pic posted on Instagram by Shoaib on Instagram (BCCL) 
 
 Shoaib-Dipika’s wedding today
 
 After dating each other for several years, television actors Shoaib Ibrahim and Dipika Kakkar are finally tying the knot today at Shoaib's native village Maudaha, near Kanpur, in Uttar Pradesh. The wedding will be a quiet affair with just close friends and family members of the couple attending it. However, Shoaib and Dipika, who have been posting pictures of their wedding functions on Instagram, will be hosting a grand reception in Mumbai on February 26. "Shoaib and Dipika wanted the wedding to be a really simple and quiet affair at Shoaib’s village. In fact, they didn't want to even disclose their wedding date," shared a close friend of the couple. Shoaib and Dipika, who first met on the sets of ' ', recently appeared as a couple on the reality show Nach Baliye where Shoaib had proposed to his lady love. 
 The couple’s close friend, actress Falaq Naaz too posted pictures of the haldi ceremony online, performed at Shoaib’s village on Tuesday. 
 
 Ankit and Pallavi to get married tomorrow
 
  Jha.Sumit@timesgroup.com
 
 A puja followed by a party, with lots of singing and dancing, marked Bollywood singer-composer  's engagement to   on Tuesday evening in Kanpur. With just close relatives and friends in attendance, the ring ceremony was a traditional one held at a prominent banquet hall in Kanpur. Dressed in an embroidered dark blue sherwani, Ankit beamed with delight as he watched his bride-to-be Pallavi walk in, looking resplendent in a red lehenga. Ankit's hit song ' ' was played as the couple made an entry at the venue. 
 
  
  Pallavi and Ankit exchanged rings at an elaborate and close-knit family affair on Tuesday in Kanpur (BCCL) 
 
  
  (L-R) Ankit’s bhabhi Swati, parents Suman and RK Tiwari and brother (L) Ankur with Ankit and Pallvi at their engagement (BCCL) 
 
  
  Ankit performing puja while father RK Tiwari gives him company and Ankit and Pallavi dancing after their engagement in Kanpur (BCCL) 
 
 "We all are really happy today. as Ankit has found his soul mate. Bahut samay se hum sab ghar ke log chahte thay ki Ankit ki shaadi ho jaye aur dekhiye woh samay bhi aa gaya," said Ankit's father RK Tiwari, adding, "Pallavi is the new family member and we welcome her with open arms." 
 After the puja and exchanging rings, the couple danced to 'Dil Cheez Tujhe Dedi' and 'Mere Rashke Qamar'. The party continued till late in the night with elder brother Ankur and his wife Swati also joining the other guests on the dance floor while mother Suman showered flowers on them. Ankit and Pallavi will be tying the knot at an elaborate wedding to be held in the city tomorrow. 
 
 
