NAGPUR:   Singh, an official closely associated with framing of online building   management system (BPMS) and its implementation across municipal councils, now posted as   ( )  , citizens can hope to see an end to red-tapism in town planning department.

 An IAS officer of 2006 batch, Singh took over the charge of municipal commissioner from collector Ashwin Mudgal on Friday.
 
 Singh was in the directorate of information technology that developed BPMS and director in municipal administration which implemented the modern building plan sanction system in several municipal councils.
 
 In an informal interaction with media persons, Singh said BPMS has been implemented in around 240 municipal councils in the state. “Urban development department (UDD) is implementing BPMS in phased manner beginning with municipal councils. It will be implemented in the NMC when planned by the UDD,” he said.
 
 BPMS aims to put an end to red-tapism in town planning department of the civic bodies. Citizens can apply and get sanction to their building plans online. Also, citizens can get sanction buildings plan for plots below 200 sq.mt through their architects itself.
 
 A former Indian Air Force officer, Singh said he was lucky enough to get opportunity to work in the NMC under the guidance of CM Devendra Fadnavis and Union minister Nitin Gadkari. “Nagpur is a better place and efforts will be made for providing better services to the people with proper coordination between citizens and office bearers. I would also concentrate on infrastructure projects here. Efforts will also be taken for speedy disposal of files,” he said.
 
 A postgraduate from London, Singh did not find any problem in increasing dependency of local self governing bodies on the central and state government for funds. “All urban local bodies have been asked to tap all possible resources to increase revenue,” he said.
 
 Appointed at the helm of a civic body for the first time, Singh also met heads of departments and directed them work with integrity, dedication and commitment. He started review meetings with all departments.
 
 NMC sources told TOI that Singh’s experience in IT field will help the civic body in expediting Smart City project, bring e-governance project back on track and in introduction of innovative technologies.
 
 
