MYSURU: More than 1,450 children, who visited the city on Sunday, were immunized with   at both Mysuru Palace and Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens.

 The district health department had deployed 20 trained volunteers in four teams. They vaccinated 481 children at the palace and 1,000 at the zoo. The health workers will be deputed at the tourist spots till Wednesday.
 
 Amith Mehta, an IT employee from Jaipur who was on a family tour to South India, told TOI: “I was told about the   programme by the volunteers at the Mysuru Palace. My 3-year-old daughter and one-year-old son were immunized with   drops.”
 
 MLA Somashekar inaugurated the National Pulse Polio Campaign in the city by administering polio drops to the children at the Health Centre in Jayanagar on Sunday.
 
 Somashekar said, “The UPA government brought out effective programmes to make country polio-free during its period. It was World Health Organization that declared India as polio-free in 2014. But there are a few children from the neighboring countries who are residing in India and suffering from polio. The government has taken effective steps to address such issues.”
 
 Karnataka was declared polio-free in 2008, and till date, according to the health department, they have not received a single complaint regarding polio. The pulse polio programme has created awareness among all the people, including villagers, said the legislator.
 
 District health officer B Basavaraj said, “To reach all the children in the district, the department has designated 8,352 staff, including 320 supervisors, 834 to High Risk Areas (HRA site) and three mobile teams with a total of 1,588 polio booths across the district for the programme.”
 
 All the assigned staffs were trained to vaccinate the children before designating them to the work. “Last year, we were able to achieve only 95% of the target, but this year we will try to reach to the full. The team will also go for door-to door polio  . The second phase of the programme will start from March 11,” said Basavaraj.
 
 Mayor B Bhagyavathi, who was present during the inaugural ceremony, moved out in the middle of the programme without informing the organizers and this surprised the officials and the gathered people.
 
 
