There was a handful of fans on Thursday at the felicitation of the Tamil Nadu women’s football team that won the senior women’s national championship for the first time. Requested to show their skills, the girls readily obliged. They balanced the ball with practised efficiency, just the way they would balance life against all odds.

 Take midfielder Malavika for example. The 23-year-old would hold the TN midfield together, assisting in attack, snuffing out the opposition forays. It’s no different from what she does in her everyday life. With her parents being daily labourers, the onus is on the Salem girl to provide for the family.
 
 When she returns to her hometown on Friday, she will be forced to go back to her routine as a daily wage worker. "While I am training at   (SDAT) here, everything seems fine. I am getting three square meals a day and the association provides for my kit. But it doesn’t help my family. They are proud of me, but in the end want money and playing football doesn’t help. So I have to go back and work," Malavika says.
 
 The faces and names change but Malavika’s story is the same as that of every other player in the 20-member squad. In the current squad, only seven players have   — three Cuddalore girls, who were tsunami survivors, work for the Chennai police department — while the rest depend on SDAT’s hostel of excellence scheme. Under the plan, the TN government provides free education for every girl and scholarships in some colleges. However, with no daily allowance, the girls need to do some odd jobs to make their ends meet. As a result, their game gets affected.
 
 The team manager Nivedha explains the plight of the players under such circumstances. "The girls join SDAT because they know that they will get three meals daily and education. Slowly they develop a passion for the game. Now, once the college term ends and they don’t have any tournaments to play, they return home and start working. When they come back, they have to start working on their fitness and a lot of them get injured too," Nivedha says.
 
 This time, though, things were a bit different. The TN girls were completely fit as they had just taken part in the all-India University Games and the national women’s league. Incidentally, the top three positions in women’s football event belonged to Annamalai University, Thiruvalluvar University and Madras University respectively.
 
 In the league, Madurai-based Sethu FC, which has given 10 footballers to the TN team, has qualified for the main round to be held in Shillong in March. Coach Murugavendan said this trend must continue if the TN team has to sustain its success. "We didn’t have proper leagues in the state till last year. Now, there is a nine-team league in Madurai. All members have a medical insurance for a year because of AIFF’s mandate that every player must be medically-certified to play. So things are changing for the better," says Murugavendan.
 
 Chairman of the women’s committee and Sethu FC president Seeni Mohaideen played a big role in giving financial and logistical assistance to the players. Now, he feels that generating jobs for the women footballers is the next step to ensure that the success doesn’t remain a flash in the pan.
 
 "We don’t have the means to give players contracts but we help them financially. We have provided them medical insurance. We also want to take a few players in our Sethu team from this squad. Now, a lot of women footballers leave after getting disoriented because of few job  . So I want to submit a memorandum to the chief minister and the sports minister so that these girls get some corporate jobs and continue to play. This success shouldn’t be one-off." 
 
 But it’s easier said than done and only time will tell if these girls keep winning in life, just as they did on the football field on Wednesday.
 
 
