MYSURU/HASAN: Shravanabelagola is getting ready for the 88th   which will be held between February 17 and 25. Thousands of workers from various parts of the country are working day and night to complete all the Mahamastakabhisheka works on time. Amid all these, just 100 meters away from the Mahamastakabhisheka work site, district administration and   (DPI) under the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan scheme (SSA) is doing a silent revolution. For the first time in their life, around 40 kids who are in the age group of 4 to 14 years have entered into a classroom where they are learning rhymes, painting, basic English etc. 

 This   has been set up with the idea of ensuring formal education to the children of the laborers who are hired by the contractors for various Mahamastakabhisheka related works. These laborers are from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and other states. 40 children have been enrolled in this school.
 
 Speaking to The Times of India, Deputy Comissioner Rohini Dasari Sindhuri informed that this tent school has been established under the SSA to ensure that these kids will not remain out of the formal schooling system. "These kids are provided with all the facilities. Once they leave the Shravanabelagola after the Mahamastakabhisheka, they will be given migration certificate which will help them to continue their education in other places," she said.
  
 Presently three teachers are working at the Tent School. The school starts at 10 am and concludes at 4.15 pm. One teacher has been assigned the responsibility of visiting all the laborer tents and convincing the parents to send their kids to the school. "None of these children ever attended classes all these years. They don't have any certificate. So we need to start from the very beginning. Making the kids to sit inside the classroom, engaging them in learning activities is really a tough job. These kids are provided with milk, midday meal, snacks twice in a day beside clean drinking water, pens, pencils, books, drawing books, crayons etc. It is a pleasure working with them," said a teacher.
 
 The challenges: One of the major challenges faced by the teachers is the medium of communication and instruction. "These kids are from different states like Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh etc. They have a different mother tongue. So we need to communicate them in the language which they understand. So basically we use Hindi. These kids are taught English rhymes, painting, drawing, sketching etc. They are very good at learning. They learn it very quickly," she said.
  
 What next? according to the teachers, once these kids leave Shravanabelagola, they will be given migration certificates. "In this migration certificate, we will mention about this tent house education. So they can continue their education in other places without repeating earlier classes," she concluded.
 
