GURUGRAM: Around 180 people, some of them are awaiting alternative   for decades, will have to wait longer to get possession due to a lackadaisical attitude of officials at   estate offices in Gurugram.

 Last month, officials had sent a list of allottees — 10 from the estate office-I and another 170 from the estate office-II — to the Huda chief administrator in Panchkula, seeking approval for giving   plots to them. However, the chief administrator turned down the proposals for the want of more details, and directed the estate officers to send fresh proposals within 15 days.
 
 “It has been observed that in some cases no reason has been given for considering alternative allotment while in some other cases, reasons mentioned are vague. Also, the disputed plots are not marked on the layout. Further, there are some allottees who were already given alternative plots but they did not accept the given land and thus their names have been incorporated in the lists. This is no ground for considering someone for alternative allotment,” chief administrator J Ganesan wrote to Huda Gurugram. Spelling out the required details, the chief administrator further said that with regard to allottees who could not be offered possession of the original plots due to litigations, the estate office concerned must provide the details of the litigations along with the latest status of those cases.
 
 If the original plots could not be offered due to an increase or decrease in the size of the land, reports of the   concerned should be obtained explaining whether regularisation of the original plots is possible or not. Similarly, if the possession of the original plots could not be offered due to encroachments, the fresh proposal should clearly mention what efforts have been made to remove those squatters. If non-completion of development work is the reason for proposing alternative allotment, explanations should be given for the delay in those projects.
 
 Huda estate officer-II Vivek Kalia promised to examine the issues raised by the chief administrator. “The list sent (by us) clearly mentioned the detailed reasons thereof and proposal was sent with disputed plots clearly marked on the demarcated plan,” he claimed.
 
 Huda estate officer-I Sanjeev Singhla too claimed they had sent a consolidated list. “We will send fresh proposals for alternative plots,” he said. 
 
 Amit Puri, who is waiting for an alternative plot for past 33 years, alleged Huda was harassing common people. “Influential people have been allotted several alternative plots over the years, but people like us are being denied the land,” he said .
 
 
