No other actor in Mollywood has arguably made more rapid strides in his career than   in the past one year. Since the release of   last March, the actor has been part of three superhits including Mayaanadhi and Godha, signed two Tamil films and has worked in eight movies as the lead hero. For someone who had been doing supporting roles till 2015, Tovino’s transformation into a bankable actor has been remarkable indeed.   gets candid about the journey so far and what lies ahead:

 
 It’s a small-budget film. When I first thought of doing a Tamil film, I felt that I wanted to be part of a film with a strong content and scope for performance rather than doing a mass entertainer. Abhiyum Anuvum fit the bill. It’s been made in a way that it would appeal to all types of audiences in Tamil Nadu. The Malayalam version is for those who don’t understand Tamil at all. I think our audience watches films in all languages and love the original versions better.
 
 
 (Laughs) Currently I don’t have to maintain a six pack because my characters don’t demand it. For instance, my character in   is a ruffian. He boozes, smokes and gets into fights all the time, and nowhere in the movie do we mention that he works out. So, if he has rock hard abs when he takes off his shirt, that will defy logic. He needs to have an average body. Contrarily, my character in Godha demanded a good physique. In Oru Kuprasidha Payyan, the character is someone who has a fit body not because he hits the gym, but because he works really hard. He is a hotel worker and does manual work, so he is healthy. As a person, I make sure that I keep myself fit. I still can run 2km in the morning, and work out for two hours. And, I am not someone who is too lazy to take the effort to work out if my character demands it. 
  
 
 I don’t wish to be part of films that have tried and tested subjects. I try to ensure that my films have something different to offer. Theevandi is one such film. It’s the story of a chain-smoker but it is narrated as a political satire. Maradona, meanwhile, is about how an incident changes the life of my character. I am not saying my films have to be politically or morally correct, but with cinema being a medium that influences people, I draw a line somewhere. Both these movies have positive elements that would make the audience think.
 
 
 
 In Maayanadhi, in the flashback sequences, Maathan is the cool dude. But when he returns to her, he feels guilty for wronging her. In such a scenario, the woman will always have the upper hand. Even in life, when you make a blunder, you don’t hold your head high and act all pompous. So, the logic is that simple. When you make a realistic movie, you would take those factors into account. 
 
 If you notice, the men in Syam Pushkaran’s and Dileesh Nair’s scripts are distinct. Their stories and the way their characters talk are all different. I think that’s also why a lot of people have liked Maathan and it’s also why I like doing such characters. Having done realistic films, I am now embarrassed to do something other than those now.
 
 Logic is very important to me; it has been like that from my childhood. When I was a kid and if the lip sync in the song didn’t match, I used to notice that and think why the makers didn’t spot that. Similarly, I used to wonder who are these other dancers in the background and where did they come from all of a sudden. Malayalis watch international movies. So, why should we stick to one particular pattern? Shouldn’t we aspire for that level? The good thing is such movies are coming up.
 
 
 
 I don’t know how many people have noticed the roles that I have done at the start of my career, but I always had clarity on why I took up a film. Before acting in my debut film, I became part of a small-budget movie and wanted to create a revolution. I had the same dreams of every other movie aspirant. What I realised from those experiences was that to be a thriving actor, even if you showcase a National Award performance, you need the audience to watch your films. That’s how I did ABCD and then Koothara, which had Mohanlal and Second Show director Srinath Rajendran. I also believe people start liking you when you are part of star-studded films and only after that you can shoulder your own movie.
 
 Sometimes, as a young actor you think that you can experiment as you believe you have attained a certain level of popularity and can afford to test your luck. But that hardly works out. I got to know that after taking that risk.
 
 
 I think Ennu Ninte Moideen was what changed it all for me. It had a great subject, a good character and most importantly, it was a Prithviraj movie. People would watch the film first day, first show and that way they would also watch me. While viewing the film in the theatre, I messaged Prithviraj, telling him that his script selection was good. He replied, ‘That’s all fine. From now on, make sure you are careful while selecting your scripts’. I told him that I was in a position to choose only from what I was being offered. It was likely that more supporting roles might come my way and I would select those carefully. He told me, ‘It’s not supporting characters that will find you now but leading roles. Those are the ones you have to choose well.’ I thought he was just saying that for courtesy’s sake, but after the movie almost 95% of the offers were to play hero. Most of them had run-off-the-mill scripts and producers. There were interesting projects but we just couldn’t get people to fund them. This was in 2015 and the situation was markedly different from what it is now. Currently, that change is almost complete and people are receptive to movies with different subjects and genres.
 
 
 There are films that can be made in a budget that would fetch profit with an actor like me. I don’t think there’s any connection with the budget of a movie and its quality. I am more interested in doing emotional dramas, and movies in that genre don’t warrant big funding. What matters are the artistes’ performance, director’s expertise and crew’s sincerity. I also try to experiment once in a while but a producer’s money is not taken for granted. Because of Oru Mexican Aparatha’s success, a lot of films that didn’t have producers got a green signal and these are what I have been working on lately.
 
 
 I understand it’s a tricky phase now. I think the only thing that is in my control is to pick good scripts. I am not someone who has attained a superstar status, and that’s not something I wish for either. Right now, if a movie has a good cast and crew, the chances of it being a success are high. So, if I choose a film that I am confident I would watch in the theatre, then at least I can expect the audience too to do the same.
 
 Plus, it’s not just the actor who deserves the credit. Everyone associated with the movie should be appreciated. I have never asked to increase my screen time or importance in a film’s script. I will always give my 100% to the roles I do. I don’t have to worry about what others are up to and I don’t have to climb by pulling someone down.
 
 
 I am working almost every day in the past few months, and yet you won’t see me in the same look in all these films. That’s because I have an idea of what I want to do for the next movie. We started shooting Maradona immediately after Mayaanadhi concluded. So, the two to three days I got as a break between the films went for the styling. Similarly, I was preparing for the look of Aami by the last leg of Maradona and that of Theevandi by the end of Aami’s schedule. I would have already started preparing for the next film midway — if the look requires me to put on or lose weight. It does stress me out because every day I am thinking about those aspects too.
 
 
 If I get even a half day break, I spend it entirely with my family. Often my wife and daughter come to the locations. The past weekend, my parents, brother, sister and their families came to the sets. So, if I can’t be with them, they will come and be with me. That’s the understanding we have.
 
