SHIMLA: Chief minister   has ordered an inquiry to look into the alleged irregularities committed in the construction of Sidhatha medium irrigation scheme in Jawali assembly segment of Kangra district. Besides, he told the irrigation and public health (IPH) department to ensure plugging of leakages not only in the distribution channels but in the main canal as well.

 During a priority meeting of the MLAs, Jawali MLA Arjun Singh had complained about the irregularities committed during the construction of Sidhatha medium irrigation scheme. He alleged that the irrigation scheme was completed without appropriate distribution of water channels. Following this, Thakur had not only ordered a probe but also asked the IPH officials to visit the site and sumbit a report at the earliest. The MLA had also sought an inquiry into the land which was taken for the purpose of setting up a beer distillery about 22 years ago but no such plant has come up till date. 
 
 Jwalamukhi MLA   raised the issue of transfer of temple trust land of Shri Jawalamukhi Devi temple to health and other departments. He pleaded that around 17 kanals of temple trust land, which were non-transferable, was transferred by the previous government in the name of a hospital. He said under the National Rural Health Mission a big building was lying idle while the hospital was being run in a sarai at Matri-Chhaya.
 
 Thakur sought immediate report on this matter from Kangra DC and asked him to report to the chief minister office at the earliest.
 
 Nurpur MLA Rakesh Pathania requested for immediate steps to stop supply of gravel from neighbouring Punjab, citing reasons that since the government had taken action against illegal mining in the inter-state border belt of Nurpur, the illegal stock of gravel from neighbouring Punjab was being sold between Rs 2,500 to Rs 3,000 per tractor trolley, making difficult to undertake developmental works. He said action should be taken against those who had piled stock of river minerals and were supplying it without any control.
 
  Hoshiar Singh advocated setting up a ‘snake park’ in his constituency. He said since his assembly segment was surrounded by rivers and rivulets there were more snakes in the area. He said an anti-venom plant could be set up, which will help in earning revenue for the state by selling anti-venom. He also suggested a safari area in his constituency along the river beds as an added  
 
