NAVI MUMBAI: A  , 44, of a   for   was arrested on Friday for repeatedly   two girls aged seven and 10 over the past fortnight. Police will conduct an   and take help of a sign language interpreter to communicate with the girls. 

 “The school and hostel for special children has around 40 students. It receives a government grant from the Raigad zilla parishad. The girls had gone home for the long stretch of holidays starting from March 29 (Mahavir Jayanti) when they told their mothers of their ordeal,” said  .
 
 The regular woman caretaker of the school had taken leave about a fortnight ago to attend a relative’s funeral, and the 44-year-old from Nanded, who was the male caretaker, had stepped in. “Our preliminary inquiry shows that the children were sexually assaulted two to four times during that period,” said Tanawade. The accused has been booked for rape, sexual assault and unnatural offence under the IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.
 
 The assault came to light when one of the girls complained of pain in her private parts to her mother. When the mother coaxed out the reason, she met the other girl’s mother. The two sets of parents immediately approached Neral police station on March 29 night. Neral cops, in turn, directed them to Karjat police station, as the offences had taken place under their jurisdiction.
 
 The cops learnt from the woman caretaker that on March 27, after she had returned, the girls had fallen asleep in the room used by the accused. He said they should not be disturbed. That was the last time the accused assaulted the girls. The girls left for their homes on March 28. 
 
 The girls used sign language to tell us of the crime but we could not understand everything that they were trying to communicate, said the police. “We are arranging for an interpretor to record their statements and conduct an identification parade. The accused committed these crimes under the influence of alcohol,” added Tanawade.
 
 All the staff members and directors of the school have been called in for questioning and an FIR has been lodged. The accused has been sent to 15 days of judicial custody. 
 
 Some activists and local politicians met Karjat police officials on Saturday. “We demand the arrest of the institution’s heads else we will resort to protests,” said Uday Patil, NCP general secretary, Raigad.
 
 Raigad district child protection officer Ramkrishna Reddy said, “Our team has visited the school and we are awaiting its report.”
 
 The school was transferred to private operators by the government around four years ago. Currently, it has 22 boys and 18 girls and has 11 staffers.
 
 
