LUDHIANA: A local court has sentenced an   to life imprisonment after finding her guilty in a   case. The court of additional sessions judge Kuldip Kumar Kareer also imposed a fine of Rs 25,000 on the convict, and in default of payment of fine, she will have to undergo rigorous imprisonment for another six months. On 20 December 2016, Dugri police station had booked Dimple (30) of Labour Colony Phase One Dugri, under sections 302 (murder) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC for the murder of Amandeep Singh of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar Block on Dhandra Road. 

 As per prosecution, on 20 December 2016, Rajinder Singh of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar Block, Dhandra Road, got his statement recorded with police, whereby he stated he was working as a granthi (priest) at different gurdwaras. He has three sons, and his youngest son Amandeep Singh alias Happy (22), used to work as a labourer. On 19 December 2016, Amandeep Singh did not return home until late in the night.
 
 When Rajinder, along with his other son Sandeep Singh, started looking out for Amandeep, they came to know he had been visiting Dimple, who was working with an orchestra group, and was residing near Labour Colony Chowk in Dugri. Rajinder and Sandeep went to Dimple’s room in the wee hours, where they heard an exchange of heated arguments from inside.
 
 As they went upstairs, they saw Dimple holding a broken glass bottle in her hand, which she had hit on Amandeep’s head, who fell unconscious in the stairs, and was bleeding profusely. They tried to take him for treatment, but he succumbed to his injury on the spot. Thereafter, Dimple threatened them with dire consequences if they dared report the matter to the police, and escaped from spot. Later, they got a case registered against her in Dugri police station.
 
 Police arrested her on 21 December, and later produced a challan against her in the court. During the trial, she pleaded innocence. The additional public prosecutor for the state pleaded for punishment to the accused on the basis of prosecution evidence. The defence counsel argued that the prosecution witnesses were discrepant on material points in the case, and therefore, their testimony could not be relied upon.
 
 The court, after going through the evidence on record, observed that it could not be said that prosecution witnesses were discrepant on any material point, nor could it be said that the link evidence was missing in the case. The convict prayed for leniency, stating she was a 30-year-old divorcee having a 10-year-old son, who was presently living with his uncle. The convict further stated that her parents had already died, and in the event of her incarceration, there would be nobody to look after her only son.
 
 “I have considered the plea raised by the convict, but considering the fact that she has been found guilty of putting an end to the life of a young man in cold blood, no mitigating circumstances exist in her favour for taking a lenient view,” observed the judge. 
 
 
