AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad caves, which attracts local and international tourists throughout the year besides students who visit the site for research, is deprived of one thing that has irked local activists— information boards. 

 As much beauty as the sight of the caves may behold, it all becomes futile if there is no information on the historical value of the site. 
 
 Civic activist Rahul   said Aurangabad occupies a special place in Buddhism because of the world famous   and Aurangabad Caves. “People within the city are hardly aware of Aurangabad caves. It is sad that even after visiting the site, visitors remain uninformed about the history due to lack of information boards. There are certain carvings inside the caves which people should know about,” said Ingle.
 
 The site has a board put up by the   (ASI) which tells that the site is a protected monument under the  . It reads, “This monument has been declared of national importance under the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958,” and goes on to talk about the punishment for defacing. 
 
 State convenor Indian National Trust for Art and   said the caves have century-old carvings that have historical importance which visitors should be aware of. 
 
 Aurangabad caves are nestled on a hill running nearly 2km behind Bibi-ka-Maqbara. In all, twelve rock-cut Buddhist caves can be found here which are divided into three separate groups depending on its location. ASI’s official website states the caves can be dated from second or third cetury to seventh century AD. 
 
 The first and the second groups are nearly 500 metres apart with the former on the western side and the latter on the eastern side of the hill. The website states that due to Aurangabad’s proximity to the ancient trade route and its closeness to Pratishthana (modern Paithan)— the capital of Satavahanas— patronage to religious activities can be understood even though it is not corroborated by inscriptional evidence.
 
 Ingle along with activists Vishal Lahot and Vishal Jadhav have submitted a memorandum to the superintending archaeologist of ASI demanding the installation of information boards.
 
 Speaking to TOI, superintending archaeologist of ASI Dilip Khamari admitted that the board providing information on the history of the monument should beput up. “One of my technicians responsible for the job has a family emergency. I will ensure that a board explaining the history of the site is put up within a month’s time,” said Khamari. 
 
 
