CHANDIGARH: The tussle between the UT and Delhi, Andaman and Nicobar   Police Services (DANIPS) cadre police officers over promotions and postings has prompted the ministry of home affairs and the UT administration to consider bringing all Chandigarh DSPs under DANIPS cadre instead of the   Police Rules (PPR).

 If all goes well, the DSPs of the Chandigarh cadre will be able to work in other cities, where DANIPS cadre officials are posted, in the near future.
 
 
 Senior UT officers recently held the first round of discussions with their counterparts in the ministry. Sources said the Central government seems to be convinced about the idea. Chandigarh has a total of 22 DSPs — 13 of UT cadre and eight of DANIPS cadre who hold crucial departments. One post of   is vacant.
 
 “The ministry has been told each and every detail regarding promotions, postings, transfers and other issues of the DSPs. It is now being seriously considered to bring all DSPs of Chandigarh under DANIPS cadre by bringing them out from the PPR. Since the discussions have just started, all legal aspects and rules will be taken into account and expert opinions sought. But one thing is certain that the authorities now want a permanent solution to this problem of tussle and litigation among officers,” said sources.
 
 Since the exercise is at an initial stage, sources in the administration said any such policy to govern DSPs in Chandigarh will take at least six months to mature.
 
 The sudden repatriation and subsequent relieving orders of eight DSPs of the DANIPS cadre was the trigger. “The first of its kind sudden transfer orders were completely unexpected for both the police and administration. It has now been decided to permanently end the DSPs’ cadre issue,” sources said.
 
 The tug of war between DANIPS cadre and UT cadre police officers has been going on for a long time. Local inspectors have complained that even after fulfilling the eligibility to become a DSP, they have not been promoted because of DANIPS cadre officers. On the other hand, inspectors who have been promoted to the rank of DSPs have alleged they have been sidelined by being given low profile departments like headquarters, police lines, security and traffic. “Key departments like crime branch, operation cells, east–south divisions and cyber branch are given to DANIPS cadre officers,” a UT DSP said.
 
