INDORE: While some Indoreans chose to follow conventional way of proposing their loved ones, others have come up with   to celebrate propose day.

 For city-based couple Linesh and Poonam Adhikari, whose love story is three decades old, this propose day will be as special as their first proposal. The 50-year-old still manages to surprise his wife with roses and chocolates.
 
 With technology making the world easier, this year, several couples who are in a long distance relationship or are in different cities for some reason are opting for video dates too.
 
 "I have planned to surprise him with a video date," said Emma Cherian who is out of station for some work and plans to video date with her childhood sweetheart and husband, Stephan.
 
 "We still have the poems we wrote for each other. We don't really need a particular day, we believe in cherishing small moments each day," said the 47-year-old, who is married for 22 years now.
 
 With customization trending in the market, many young couples are opting for getting personalized gifts for their beaus.
 
 "I have planned to propose Tathagat with some really cute customised gifts this Valentines," said Nandani Bairagi, who is excited about the valentines' week as this will be her first valentine after marriage.
 
 
 
 
 "I had already ordered a couple of gifts online, I am also planning to make a   for him," said the 27-year-old.
 
 Customised gift and flowers' shop-owner, Prashant Saraf who was happy with the business said, "Many people have given us orders of customised gifts, this year we don't even have time to breathe."
 
 While many couples are celebrating the day with their beloveds, the singles too are enjoying these days with their friends.
 
 "Who said this day is only for lovers? Like every year, I will propose all my friends to be as loyal and as crazy as ever," said Shefali Agrawal.
 
 The 25-year-old gave yellow roses to all her close friends on the rose day as well and plans to celebrate all the other day too.
 
 
