HUBBALLI: Residents of  , Jabbalaguda and   of   district, who saw a train chug into their villages for the first time on April 1 last year, are now making good use of the train. They hope that the train will soon reach  , a commercial hub in the region.

 Though train No. 56927/56928 Hubballi-Chikkabenakal-Hubballi fast passenger was launched on March 31, 2017 itself, common passengers were allowed to use the train only from April 1 due to security reasons. People, rights from infants to senior citizens, who had enthusiastically welcomed the train, are now redesigning their lives according to the availability of the train.
 
 
  
 Husain Pasha Bedavatti, a writer who had travelled in the train from Koppal to Chikkabenakal and back on the day of its launch, observed that the train has become the preferred mode of transport for people in Koppal to reach Gangavati, which is located 15km from Chikkabenakal. "If we travel by bus, we need to pay Rs 53 per head. But by train it's Rs 10 from Koppal to Chikkabenakal and   has arranged a city bus from there to Gangavathi, where the fare is Rs 10. So, we reach Gangavathi by paying just Rs 20. It's the need of the hour that SWR expedite the construction of the Ginigera-Mahabubnagar new line and extend the train till at least Gangavathi," he added.'
 
 Rekha Uppala, a home maker in Karatagi, noted that work on the railway line is going on at her village. "We are als oeager to receive the train in our village. If the work is completed, a major portion of   will see economic and social change. It's sad to say that the foundation stone for the Ginigera-Mahabubnagar line was laid by H D   during his tenure as the prime minister and construction began just 3-4 years ago," she said.
 
 Pampareddy Aralihalli, a journalist, complained that thought the train has been running since a year, the railway departments has not yet displayed bigger boards at both ends of the platform at Budagumpa station. "They have recently installed a board but are yet to write letters on it. The department should expedite infrastructure development at new stations to attract more passengers," he said.
 
 Manjunath Bhovi, a gram panchayat member in Jabbalagud, said that illiterate people who were hesitant about the train service are now daring to enjoy the train journey.   said the train has provided part time jobs to localites. "A group of people are selling butter milk, ground nuts, mint and other items when the train terminates at the station. If SWR starts a train from here to Hubballi in the morning and from Hubballi in the evening, it will be the best option for businessmen of Gangavathi to finish their works in Hubballi and come back the same day," he said.
 
 
 
 
 Though the Hubballi-Chikkabenakal-Hubballi fast passenger is running from a year, its details are not yet udated on the National Train Enquiry System (NTES) website. When asked, E  , chief PRO, SWR, said it's somehow missed out from NTES. "We will get it added shortly. Our people are already on the job' she added.
 
