KOLKATA :   is an unavoidable fallout of modern urban living that seeks to encourage isolation, believe experts. Privacy and seclusion are the fruits of city life, which could lead to depression and even suicide in some cases, they point out. So, the number of those finding themselves cut-off and in despair, like the 43-year-old chartered accountant who jumped to her death from a 17th floor   apartment – will rise. But for every depressed individual taking the extreme step, there would be at least five who manage to tide over emotional distress by clinging on to relationships — both real and virtual, they felt.

 “Every city-dweller values privacy and the terms of urban living encourage that. So, isolation is more often voluntary than imposed. Few would like to be dictated either in a family or in a relationship. So, virtual contact is now more convenient. But there is probably a threshold point and when you cross that, isolation backfires. It is then that depression sneaks in and some are driven to suicide,” said sociologist Prasanta Ray.
 
  
 Being connected with friends, family or neighbours did not necessarily act as a barrier against depression, argued psychiatrist J Ram. Financial condition or social status hardly had any bearing on it either, according to him. “Eventually, it is about who you want to connect with and your aspirations. One may find oneself isolated even while living in a big family. Or, in a big condominium like South City where you have several hundred neighbours. Emotional seclusion is a tricky thing which strikes different people due to different reasons. So, there’s no rule or set method to beat isolation,” said Ram.
 
 He added that even though South City has seen several suicides over the last few years, it would be a mistake to conclude that people living in large complexes didn’t interact and were hence prone to depression. “In fact, I have come across people whose quality of life has improved after moving into such complexes. They do interact and engage in community activities much more than the rest. If you go to South City, for instance, you will find at least 50 senior citizens taking their morning stroll together,” he said.
 
 Some like psychiatrist Siladitya Ray, however, believed that depression was ‘alarmingly on the rise, especially amongst the urban affluent individuals’. “Such incidents are tell-tale signs of a serious underlying social pathology which has been triggered by mindless consumerism and obsessive materialism. Suicidal inclinations are very common these days all over the world, primarily because there is a growing sense of loneliness and existential despair. In such a state, a depressed individual finds oneself without any meaningful roots which leaves him shattered and alienated,” explained Ray.
 
 Was the social media pulling people apart by reducing the need for real communication? Prasanta Ray felt that virtual interaction wasn’t always a bad thing. “It’s also bringing people together at their convenience, allowing them to get in touch whenever they want to. In fact, it’s a boon for those feeling isolated. Also, we must learn to live with the fact that virtual communication will replace face-to-face interaction in our wired world,” Ray explained.
 
 
