VADODARA/ ANAND: The wetlands of lush green Charotar belt of   are home to as many as 233 crocodiles. 

 
 This is what the first ever summer night count of Charotar crocodiles conducted by the   (VNC) has revealed. 
 
 VNC which has been conducting Charotar Crocodile Counts since the last five years annually during winters, for the first time had conducted a summer crocodile count between May 11 and May 13 this year. 
 
 The crocodile count data from 17 villages of Anand and   districts revealed presence of 233 crocodiles including juveniles in the wetlands of the twin districts.
 
 Interestingly, during the earlier crocodile count which VNC had organised on January 6 and January 7, volunteers could sight 131 muggers – in the rural heartland of Gujarat. 
 
 “During winters when the reptiles come out for basking, the adults or the matured ones, occupy premium places as they need more heat whereas the juveniles remain surrounded by vegetation making their sighting difficult,” said  , managing trustee of VNC. 
 
 “But when you do night counting during summers, you can sight the juveniles as well,” he said.
 
 Since it was not possible to approach crocodiles closer to evaluate the size of the reptiles, a majority of the crocodiles recorded during the night counts were of unknown size. 
 
 Of the 233 individuals sighted, 41 were bigger than two meters, 24 were between one and two meters, 38 less than one meter and rest – 130 - were of unknown size, the report released by VNC states. 
 
 “Only the adult individuals represent the wildlife population of an area as most juveniles do not reach maturity. So to clearly ascertain the exact population of the area, it is necessary to see the adult population and not the juveniles,” said Patel. 
 
 “Since most animals counted during the night count were of unknown size, it is difficult to tell the exact adult crocodile population, which truly represents the crocodile population of Charotar,” he added. 
 
 According to VNC, globally such citizen science approach is used for crocodile population surveys only at two places including the one in the Charotar belt of Central Gujarat and at   in  .
 
 Professor B C Choudhury, retired scientist and executive trustee of Wildlife Trust of India had also remained present during the summer count to share his experience with the participants.
 
 
