NEW DELHI: While declaring that “no gag order can be passed against the media”, a Delhi   reversed an interim order that had asked the media to use disclaimers while publishing news related to the alleged   against former   chief R K Pachauri. 

 In the interim order passed earlier, the predecessor of additional district judge Sumit Dass had directed the use of disclaimers for such news. The order had read, “If the defendants publish or telecast any interview or coverage or reporting or comment whatsoever then they should publish in subtitle that ‘the allegations have not been proved in any court and they may not be correct’”.
 
 Dass, relying on judgments dealing with the law on freedom of speech and expression, held, “The injunction as sought for falls foul of the said explicit proposition of law. Such restraints as sought for not only amount to enforcing a gag order on the media but at the same time prevent the right of the public to be kept updated about the developments — their right to know is infracted or trampled upon.”
 
 Therefore, Dass said in his 67-page judgment, “If the media cannot be restrained by way of any injunction — no gag order can be passed against the media — by adopting the same principle or analogy the media/defendants number 1, 2 and 3 also cannot be compelled to report or publish the matter in any particular way or laced with conditions so that the innocence of the plaintiff is prominently highlighted or displayed. As a matter of fact, if a person cannot be gagged then he also cannot be coerced to speak in a particular manner. Both affront the constitutional guarantee of freedom of speech and expression.” 
 
 The court declared the interim order, passed on February 25, 2017, “uncalled for” and said it stood “vacated”.
 
 The court, however, said while publishing any news reports on the subject, the views/comments of the plaintiff or his authorised representative on the said subject had to be considered. “In the event if such views or comments are not given by them, then a statement as to the fact that an effort was made to ascertain their views should also be made in the news, articles of programmes, as the case may be. That would project the stand of both the parties on the issue and also would be in consonance with guidelines in this regard,” the judge said.
 
 In addition, as the matter is still pending in court, Dass said that the rights of the parties has still not been decided and so a line should be added to denote the said fact: “The matter is subjudice” or “the matter is still pending in court” or “final decision in the case is awaited”.
 
 The court observed that it had to be seen whether an injunction sought against media or publication houses affronted the guarantee under Article 19(1) of the Constitution (freedom of speech and expression). The defendants had contended that there could not be an injunction insofar as any pre-publication or pre-telecast was concerned and the remedy of the plaintiff was only to seek damages which he was not even seeking against them, which implied that their reporting had been fair. It was also submitted that there was no malice or ill-will on the defendants’ behalf and if the media/television reports were scrutinised/evaluated for their balance and if the versions of both the parties were sought.
 
 The court said the nature of statement in the present case were no doubt “pricking or the pitch of the same was shrill or annoying”, besides being provocative in nature, but they were not of such nature as to lead to disturbance of public order. 
 
 In today’s world, the media wielded “considerable clout” as it had become a 24x7 affair and its reach had increased manifold with the advent of electronic and social media, so, the court opined, there was a need for it to be responsible. Social media, it added, gives an additional opportunity to the viewer/reader to be interactive. “It won’t be palpably wrong to say that it (media) has the potential to make or mar a person’s reputation and career. Thus, with such a wide encompassing power a corresponding duty also lies upon the media to report such matter in a neutral, impartial and objective manner,” the court suggested.
 
 
