GURUGRAM: A woman was bludgeoned to death with an   by her husband, a   (SI) who had come home from Delhi, where he was posted, for vacations. 

 The SI, Jaiprakash (44), then went on to commit suicide by   himself using his wife’s sari. According to police, Jaiprakash had been home for vacations since January 14.
 
 Jaiprakash’s mother, who witnessed the gory scenes at their home in Rewari’s Kumrodha village, called out to neighbours for help. But by the time they arrived, the woman was already dead, and Jaiprakash had hanged himself. Jaiprakash had also passed away when police reached.
 
 Jaiprakash was the family’s sole earning member and his parents’ only son. His father is dead. He has two sons, aged 14 and 16, who were in school at the time of the incident.
 
 Dharampal, the sarpanch’s husband, said the village was in a state of shock. “Jaiprakash’s mother has not stopped wailing. Since he was the only earning member of the family, she will now have to bring up his sons on her own,” he said.
 
 According to villagers, Jaiprakash had a running feud with his wife  . Around 2.30pm, the two had another argument, and he impulsively picked up an axe and attacked her. As Sumanlata’s blood-soaked body, in a green salwaar kameez, with red dupatta, slumped on the floor, Jaiprakash probably panicked, and took down the ceiling fan in the room to hang himself from its hook, choking to death.
 
 Hundreds of people gathered there after villagers informed police. When the cops entered the house, they found Jaiprakash hanging from the fan hook. The police interrogated villagers till late evening. 
 
 Hari  , the SHO of Jatusana police station, told TOI the mother, who is 85 years old and ailing, could not stop her son when he went on the rampage.
 
 According to police, after attacking Sumanlata, Jaiprakash went to the other room, got one of her saris, took the fan off the hook and hanged himself. “There were bloodstains on his clothes and shoes,” said Mani.
 
 According to villagers, Jaiprakash had in the past displayed violent tendencies, and used to enter into fights every time he came to the village. 
 
 In a previous incident, he had allegedly tried to strangle his wife but she had recovered later after receiving timely treatment. Villagers also claimed Jaiprakash suspected his wife of having an affair, and most of their fights used to be about that. 
 
 Police said they were yet to question the mother, the only witness, as she was in no state to speak.
 
 
 
