Kolkata: With a clutch of MNCs — Dassault, Saudi Aramco, Dubai Multi Commodity Center, Samsung, PepsiCo, and Covestro — evincing interest in Bengal, the fourth   saw as many as 110 memoranda of understanding (MoU) being signed on Wednesday.

 “MoUs ruled the day. These were mainly signed in the fields of mining, power, education, technology, animation centre, skill development, warehouses, food processing, animal resource development, transport and leather, among others,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at the end of the business summit on Wednesday.
 
 Among the big-ticket initiatives that were signed on Wednesday, MoUs on mining, power and several other sectors between the power and NES department of Bengal and the Silesia province of Poland will have a long-term impact, feels a top state government official. Also, an MoU has been signed through which the state department of power and GIZ of Germany will work on an Energy Action Plan for the state.
 
 As many as 10 MoUs were signed in the leather sector. The food processing sector received a shot in the arm with 28 MoUs. Education and technology, too, witnessed a much-needed foreign push this year. Jadavpur University signed three MoUs, one each with University of Exeter, Edinburgh University and Eötvös Loránd University. Presidency and Edinburgh University have joined hands in the area of higher education and life sciences.
 
 The state has decided to allot 5 acres each to University of Calcutta and Jadavpur University for setting up centres of excellence. “Now, we can build an integrated research-oriented science and technology campus there,” said CU vice-chancellor Sonali Chakraborti Bandyopadhyay. WBIDC will work with Ahmedabad-based National Institute of Design (NID) for setting up a State Design Centre in Kolkata.
 
 Samsung will go for skills development for technical segment in the state. It will offer scholarships to 1,000 women for tech-skilling. On Wednesday, the government also announced policies on logistics park development and promotion, export promotion and Ro-Ro operation promotion policies. However, it did not spell out the details. Embassy Industrial Parks has partnered with Patton group of Kolkata to develop industrial parks and logistic parks with a proposed investment of Rs 1,000 crore.
 
 
