HYDERABAD: Putting to rest the mystery behind the foaming and frothing lakes in the city, an Engineering Staff College of India (ESCI) study has found that many city lakes are contaminated by filamentous bacteria, which is the primary reason behind the white coating of foam.

 ESCI, which submitted its report to the   (TSPCB) recently, revealed that foam formation may increase during monsoons and immediate attention is needed to battle it.
 
 The report said even major water bodies like Hussainsagar and Himayatsagar are prone to foam formation if appropriate measures are not taken. “Perki Lake and Patel Cheruvu are located upstream of Hussainsagar and Himayatsagar. Failing to control the foam in the upstream lakes can also result in foam in the two major lakes. Formation of froth is undesirable, posing environmental health hazards and creating panic among people,” the report said.
 
 It may be recalled that foam formation triggered panic among the residents of areas abutting Dharani Nagar, Nacharam Lake, Patel Chervu and RK Puram Lake a few months ago, following which TSPCB asked ESCI’s Centre for Climate Change to submit a report as it had conducted similar studies on foam formation at Bellandur and Varthur lakes in Bengaluru, said TSPCB officials.
 
 “The report revealed the presence of filamentous bacteria in all the lakes studied such as RK Puram, Patel Cheruvu, and even Durgam Cheruvu STP outlet. As against the standard 1%, the analysis results showed the presence of 2% to 5.9%. Usage of cosmetics such as shampoos, detergents and dyes is another reason for froth,” TSPCB member secretary   told TOI.
 
 ESCI has recommended immediate measures such as installing floating Vattiver waste treatment system, foam controlling structures through coco logs at the surplus weir, installation of solar aerators and installation of coir geo textiles and Vattiver on drain slopes on tank bunds.
 
 Interestingly, the study suggested water hyacinth not be removed completely as it has the inherent potential to absorb nitrates, phosphates, and heavy metals from the water.
 
 
