
 The episode of Bigg Boss 11's final weekend Ka vaar definitely made viewers stick to their Television sets.
 
 
  through the Me TV asks the housemates of what all they will be missing about BB 11 once the show gets over. While   says that she will miss peace,   says that she will miss Salman and Bigg Boss' voice.
 
 
 Next, the caller of the week asks   over her less participation in tasks but Shilpa defends herself. She says that she cannot play the task roughly. The caller further tells   that he is deserving to win the game.
 
 
 Vikas and Hina later state of how Shilpa is least interested in tasks. But Shilpa denies of the allegations and Puneesh too defends her saying that she always has played the task according to her way.
 
 
  Akash and Puneesh are called in for the Sultani Akhada. Puneesh tells why Akash doesn't deserve to be a part of the house and how he is better than Akash. Akash gives up and Puneesh wins the first round. The next round too Akash loses and Puneesh is declared as the winner of the final Sultani Akhada.
 
 
 Next, actors Sidharth Malhotra and Manoj Bajpayee come into the house and play fun games with the housemates. They further ask the contestant to name the master of trickery in the house. They all name Vikas Gupta as the mastermind.
 
 
 Salman later asks Hina, Vikas, Shilpa and Luv to open the ballot box and count the votes.
 
 
 The maximum votes are garnered by Shilpa while next is Hina and then Vikas followed by Luv. Luv is declared as the evicted contestant. He hugs Hina and says that he will miss her. She apologises.
 
 
 Everybody bids Luv a warm farewell. Next Salman asks Puneesh as to why the differentiation of commoners and celebrities came up at this stage of the game. Puneesh apologises and says that it was his mistake and that he had got scared of the popularity of the celebrities, Hina, Vikas and Shilpa and hence reacted in that way.
 
 
 Salman then announces live voting and that Puneesh has to explain to India as to why a commoner should win BB while Hina would speak on behalf of celebrities. Puneesh confidentally talks of how a commoner should win and states why. He gets 55% votes from India. Next Hina talks as to why a celebrity should win. She gets 79% votes.
 
 
 The show ends on a good note with everyone in their lighter mood except for Akash who is seen hurt by Salman poking fun at him.
 For more updates, keep watching this space.
 
