LONDON: Former employee of   (CA),  , has revealed that the controversial data firm’s parent company, SCL Group, was hired to work in India between 2009 and 2010 to “assess the phenomenon of honour killing” in Punjab, Haryana, UP and Rajasthan. However, Wylie hasn’t named the client for whom   worked on this subject.

 
 This is among the revelations gleaned from 122 pages of written evidence provided by Wylie, a former research director with CA, to the House of Commons’ digital, culture, media and sport committee, made public Thursday night. Wylie had given a lengthy statement to the British parliamentary committee on Tuesday when he had claimed CA had worked for  .
 
 The evidence given by Wylie to the panel states: “At the level of enforcement, local police and magistrates are often sympathetic to the practice of killing. This has made enforcement of the law somewhat problematic. SCL helped its client to better understand the often convoluted and secretive culture surrounding honour killings. SCL analysed the issue via problem space mapping and on that foundation proposed a number of interventions to stop honour killings.”
 
 It was revealed in the evidence on Thursday CA was also engaged for anti-jihadist projects in   as well as Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir. 
 
 SCL’s client UK FCO hired the firm in October 2008 to carry out a behavioural study in Pakistan to counter violent jihadism. It then “delivered actionable recommendations, which impacted on policy in the near term and the FCO’s strategic direction in the country”, the evidence says.
 
 According to the evidence, in 2009, SCL carried out behavioural research in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) of Pakistan, the northern areas and two locations within POK. However, the client for this research is not named. The aim was to “understand support for and recruitment into violent jihadist and militant Islamic groups”, according to the evidence.
 
 That led to the development of a strategic communication plan aimed at countering radicalisation and violent extremism which included “promotion of local heroes”, “the empowerment of older women” and “education campaigns focusing on the utilisation of local welfare groups”, it was stated in the evidence.
 
 
 
