There sure is something about   that makes fans go berserk. Be it her charming smile, luscious hair, girl-next-door appeal or simply her acting — she’s created quite a stir ever since her debut,  . And she didn’t turn out to be just a one-film wonder. She followed it up with films like Kali and Fidaa, portraying strong roles. Despite a few false starts, the actress is finally making her Tamil debut with Vijay’s Karu. With her easy charm and confidence, the actress chats with us about the film, how she chooses scripts, handling instant stardom and more. Excerpts: 

 
 Though I am not allowed to reveal too many details, this film is about a mother and her daughter and their emotions. When I do a film, it is about how I become a character. So, when director Vijay sir narrated the script, asking me to play a mother’s role and expecting certain emotions for the character, it was all new. Since I hadn’t experienced something like this before, I wondered how I would pull this off. So, we both sat for a discussion and later Veronika (the child actress who plays her daughter in the film), too, joined in. I started spending more time with her. Whatever emotions that you see on screen are very real. I think I started to see her like my daughter, being very protective and all that (smiles). But eventually, it has created a huge impact for the character.
 
 
 I had a lot of support from Vijay sir. If your director knows what he wants on screen, it makes things easier. Vijay sir knew the exact emotion he wanted for a a particular scene. I thought the mother-daughter scenes would work if they were a bit loud, but he asked me to play it subtle. I used to tell Vijay sir that he wasn’t letting me act. But he asked me to wait for the final product. When I watched the film while dubbing, I understood why he had said that. It was a team effort as the three of us would often sit together to work on our parts. The films you do are not just for the audience. As an actor, you are putting your heart and soul into them. This film was quite an experience for me and very special.
 
 
 I think the script is the Bible. For any director, be it new or established, things will move forward only if they have a great script. Script-wise, all that I look for was there in Vijay sir’s Karu. When he came to me with this film, he said that he wasn’t expecting this to be a big blockbuster; neither do I. If it influences two or three people and creates awareness, our job is done. Whether it is films like Premam or Kali, people must go back feeling something. And that’s what matters. I am certain that people will remember this film, too.
 
 
 When I saw this interview of his, I called up Vijay sir, asking if there was something that I did that I wasn’t aware of or if there was any discomfort on the set. I generally love people and put them before me. He said he didn’t have any idea how this came up and assured me that I didn’t do anything. You will obviously feel bad if somebody said that. If I have hurt him, I’ll feel bad. It’s worse for me because you I do not know how I hurt him. I asked Nirav sir, and he, too, wasn’t aware of this. We work for the director and if anybody had any problem, they should have escalated the issue to him. That is what makes it a good working environment. But I totally respect his feelings and it is his right to tell what he feels. But I am someone who would never hurt anybody. If I did hurt him in some way, I feel really bad. I hope he feels better now. As an actor, he is brilliant.
 You became a sensation after Premam, and now, we see Priya Varrier getting that kind of attention. What kind of advice would you give her — on how to handle all of this?
 Hmm… pick your movies right. In my case, I got all this attention in a film. But along with this came responsibility, too. Even if I had done 10 films minus Premam, I doubt I would have got this kind of recognition. But now that she’s gotten it, she has to use it the right way.
 
 
 People in my family don’t watch films that much. But when you are on the other side now, you tend to get emotional. When a fan comes to you and cries, you end up crying with them. This has happened to me. There was this person I met in Dubai airport. He came up to me, calling me  , and had tears in his eyes. Seeing him cry, I started getting emotional as well. When I see people connecting with me as their relative or friend, I feel that I have all that I need in life. It makes you think that you have a bigger family now. But honestly, I don’t know in what way I can repay them for making me feel that way. 
 
 
 The impact Premam had made me realise that I should pick the right movies. I’d rather do just one film and enjoy this love than do a few mistakes and wonder where all the love vanished. I always had that fear in my head every time I picked one film. You need to have an emotional connect with a film when you listen to the narration. You should be able to see yourself in it. Only when I am able to get that feel and when the film offers me a chance to grow as an actor that I go forward with it. The films that I have done so far have made me feel this way.
 
 
 I generally do one film in a year, and yes, I am particular about doing only solid roles. It is different when you want something in your head, but God makes something else happens. For instance, Premam had three heroines and I played one of them. But it still created an impact and this is something beyond your reach. Even when I was shooting, the director kept telling me how he couldn’t believe that I agreed to play the role. One day, I was sitting at my home and started thinking why I picked the film. And I got the answer by the end of shooting. As you see limelight, you tend to lose yourself. There are few films which make you realise where you are and what you are there for. You are here to do your job, right? And you are always replaceable. If you are not doing this film, there will always be someone else who will do it. So, make the best use of your choices. If it weren’t for a few experiences, you do not feel this way. People ask me why I haven’t done any commercial films. And that’s when I thought maybe I should give it a try. I ended up doing MCA. Now, I realise what I want to do. It is not about what I can do. Just because I can do these things, I don’t have to do them. If I hadn’t done MCA, I would have still thought of doing another commercial movie to see what it’s like playing just another character. I have only grown as an actor, and this film, too, helped me in the growth of my career.
 
 
 I was one of those teenagers who felt horrible about having acne. I used to cover my face with a dupatta when I was in Georgia. It took Premam, and   (director of the film), for me to realise that people love you for your character and the confidence with which you portray it. Even on the day of the release, I held my mother’s hand and said that I hope people don’t write me off. We’ve always had actors with flawless skin on screen all these days and when you suddenly see somebody who is looking real, it becomes different. This gave me the confidence to encourage people who had complex issues. People have different perceptions about beauty. They think it is all about having flawless skin, great hair etc. Then, there is this fair skin vs dark skin debate. Beauty is all about how confident you are in your own skin. Be it Vijay sir, Balaji Mohan sir, Selva sir or the directors I have worked with in Tollywood — I am happy to be working with directors who are cool about me being myself. In fact, all the directors don’t want me to wear makeup, too. I am happy if girls feel proud about themselves, their natural body image and consider me an inspiration. And yes, I’m not going to use makeup in the future, too. 
 
 
 He is a very talented actor. It is different when you see him in person — he is nice, chilled out, running around the set. But during the shoot, he’s a totally a different person. You learn a lot from such actors. 
 
 
 It’s been a few days now. It’s going great (smiles), but I don’t want to talk about it now. 
 
 
