INDORE: Colorfully dressed men, women and children, holding placards of social messages that are the foundation of Jain religion, took part in two procession carried out in the city on  . 

 The processions also had beautifully decorated tableaux and idol of Lord Mahavir in a palanquin, to celebrate his birth anniversary. Horses, cows, carriages were also a part of the processions carried out at 9am and 3pm. 
 
 The morning procession was carried out by   from Mahavir Bhawan at Rajwada to Dalal Bagh at Airport Road. Community members carried the cradle of infant Lord Mahavir on their head and also pulled a silver chariot bearing another Mahavir idol. 
 
 “The important social message given through our procession was of non-violence. Community members also spread awareness regarding keeping children safe, donating blood and treating women with respect,” Ashok Mandlik, formed secretary of Akhil Bhartiya Shwetambar Jain Mahasangh said. 
 
 Thousands of people took part in the procession, which was welcomed by various groups along the route. All Jain temples of the city were specially decorated for the occasion as people visited them throughout the day and offered prayers. 
 
  community’s procession began in the afternoon from   in which large number of youngsters took part, dancing to the tunes of parodies of folk songs, popular Bollywood and Hollywood songs, being played on loudspeakers. 
 
 Among the messages which were spread by the community members were abolishing ‘Mrityu Bhoj’ or feast given after death, keeping city clean, giving up non vegetarian food, alcohol and other addictions, raising voice against domestic violence. 
 
 “Fifty five tableaux and groups of dancers were a part of our procession and also a competition was organised which was adjudged by three senior members of the community. The highlight of our procession was focus on cleanliness as we cleaned the entire procession route at the end and served water in utensils instead of plastic bottles,” Pradeep Goyal, spokesperson of Digambar Jain social group federation said. 
 
 
