BENGALURU: Bengaluru with a one-crore-plus population imports virtually every drop of water it consumes. And the cost of transporting water from the Cauvery - the chief provider - has increased 30 times in the past 40 years from Rs 21 lakh per MLD to nearly Rs 7 crore per MLD, reports  . 

 An irrigation expert says that unless citizens revive lakes and protect existing ones, the city is bound to go dry sooner rather than later. Instead of being protective about its water resources, the citizens - aided by lax governance - are busy killing lakes, letting rainwater go down the drain and polluting  . 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  For a city that sources virtually all of its drinking water from distant districts, Bengaluru should be protective about its water resources. Instead, citizens — aided by lax governance — are killing lakes, letting rainwater go down the drain and polluting groundwater.
 
 Recent reports which suggest the city could go dry like Cape Town did, may read like a doomsday scenario from a dystopian novel. However, while those reports may not be an accurate reflection of facts on the ground, they are indicators of what is in store if the city’s planners and citizens don’t wake up.
 
 Until 1886, Bengaluru’s water needs were adequately met by rain-fed tanks and lakes and man-made wells. In 1896, for the first time, water was drawn from the Arkavathi river and supplied to Bengaluru via the reservoir in Hesaraghatta. The design capacity of the reservoir was 21 MLD. Today, it does not supply even a drop of water.
 
 In 1933, water from the same tributary of the Cauvery was drawn to the TG Halli reservoir. This reservoir has a capacity of 149 MLD, but it too no longer supplies water. Then, 27 years after Independence, water was for the first time drawn from outside the city. The Cauvery Stage-I project was born. Since then, five more projects to bring water from Cauvery have been commissioned and together, they deliver about 1,430 MLD. Under Stage V of Cauvery, an additional 775 MLD will be brought to the city.
 
 This though, is an expensive affair. The cost of transporting water from the Cauvery has increased 30 times in the last 40 years. When the Cauvery Stage-I project was commissioned to carry 135 MLD of water in 1974, it cost the government Rs 29 crore or Rs 21 lakh per MLD. In 2012, the Phase-II of Stage-IV, which was to transport 500 MLD, cost Rs 3,384 crore — nearly Rs 7 crore per MLD.
 
 The cost increase, officials say, is due to multiple factors from additional infrastructure for storage to increasing supply to the city, and from increasing costs of raw materials to put in place such infrastructure. Even now, more than 25% of water brought from Cauvery is lost in transmission. Add the thousands of litres wasted by citizens and the picture is dire.
 
 
 
 
 As water supply from Cauvery increased and became more stable, lakes in the city began to disappear. The report by the ministry of water resources states Karnataka has lost 14,918 water bodies to pollution and encroachment. Experts say that a good percentage of this is in Bengaluru. Encroachments — multiple committees have pointed out a slew of cases —have become commonplace. Even the government has formed layouts on lakes. In cases where a lake is free of encroachment, it is polluted. The fires at Bellandur lake are one symptom of the malaise.
 
 
 
 
 Increasing costs and inter-state water disputes, coupled with protests from farmers have made bringing more Cauvery water to the city near impossible. It has been more than 10 years since 110 villages and municipal segments were brought under city limits and were promised piped drinking water. Yet, many areas across Mahadevapura, Bommanahalli and Yelahanka zones do not have this basic necessity.
 
 This has resulted in a complete dependence on groundwater, most of which is exploited by the tanker and packaged water mafia in Bengaluru. In areas like KR Puram, Whitefield, RT Nagar and JP Nagar, borewells are being sunk almost 1,500 ft deep. Geologists say this is a major reason for pollution.
 
 “We had prescribed a maximum limit of 30 metres (about 100 ft) for borewells, and that was based on multiple studies,” said  , a geologist. “This is because anything below 30 metres will have residues of chemicals or metals (pollutants).”
 
 Irrigation expert Captain Raja Rao says that unless citizens revive lakes and protect existing ones, the city is bound to go dry sooner rather than later. Internal presentations by the BWSSB show that the city still lets most of its rainwater flow into drains. From July 2016, when the BWSSB began levying fines on those not installing rainwater harvesting systems, to December 2017, the utility collected nearly Rs 15 crore in fines from more than 72,000 households/properties.
 
 
 
 
 Several parts of the city came to a standstill more than once in the past two years because of floods. Experts say the city can convert this bane into a boon. Srinivas Reddy, director, Karnataka State Natural Disaster Management Centre, said, “At least 32% of the total runoff volume of water from heavy rains can be diverted to rainwater harvesting. Also, existing open lakes and tanks can take in 5% of such water. Together, rainwater harvesting and proper lake management can result in almost 37% of flood water being converted into a sustainable water source.”
 
 
 
