Music is thousands of years old and it should reach everyone in the younger generation," says Chinnavedampatti-based M Prabhagaran, who has mastered the  , an ancient musical instrument of Tamil Nadu. Prabhagaran has embarked on a mission to teach music to school and college students.

 "There was a time when people thought certain genres of music were only meant for the underprivileged class. Earlier, the parai was associated only with the dalits. But we have come a long way since those days and now many youngsters show an interest in learning and playing the parai. Today it has become a form of music that helps in expressing freedom," says the 36-year-old.
 
 A type of drum, the parai was earlier used to convey messages and later as an instrument that was played in dances, festivals and funerals. A parai drummer is often seen dancing to its rhythm.
 
 Prabhagaran evinced a keen interest for the instrument when he was 13. "I spent my childhood at   in the Nilgiris where I often came across parai musical troops. I would try emulating their beats on my slate with the help of small sticks, for which my father would reprimand me," says Prabhagaran. While having lunch at school, he would imitate parai players by drumming on his aluminium plate.
 
 "It was when I was doing my BSc (zoology) in 1996 that I started to learn the parai. I spent four years learning parai music and its history. The instrument can be traced back to the era before Christ; it was played in temples more than 2,000 years ago. Later, it became an instrument played only by the dalits. But today, people belonging to all communities are learning to play the instrument," says Prabhagaran.
 
 Employed with the state agriculture department, Prabhagaran is a sociologist in the watershed development team. On weekends, he travels to government schools and colleges to teach music. "I have travelled across western Tamil Nadu and taught students. I have also taken classes for more than 500 youths who are working in the IT sector in various countries. I found many school students eager to learn music. The parai, which was once a caste symbol, has now become the pride of ancient Tamil culture. I want to spread this art form among the new generation as it needs to be conserved," he says.
 
 The music enthusiast does not charge students for teaching music. "My income is below `15,000 per month and I live in a rented house with my wife and two sons. I can never think of demanding money for teaching parai music. But if I am offered money I do not refuse it," he adds.
 
 Prolonged performances with the parai that include constant movement have taken a toll on Prabhagaran’s health. He has been suffering from knee pain since 1996. "These days I cannot dance for more than an hour while playing the parai. My sons Amuthan and Iniyan, who are in school, too play the instrument. I hope the people I taught will protect the art for many years to come," says Prabhagaran, whose efforts to save and promote the ancient music won him awards from the district administration three years ago.
 
