THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   collecting and transporting   from households and commercial institutions will now have to comply with a set of new regulations including mandatory registration, colour codes and ID cards. 

 The corporation council meeting approved the decision being implemented as part of regulating private septage carriers here on Tuesday. 
 
 As per the new conditions, the vehicles carrying septage will be assigned a colour code and drivers and cleaners will have to wear uniform and identity cards. 
 
 The tanker owners and contractors will have to register their vehicles at a cost of Rs 1,000 and a deposit amount of Rs 10,000. 
 
 An agreement has to be signed with the   secretary and registration will be limited to two per person. The registration shall have to be renewed annually and fitness certificate will have to be produced.
 
 The council has also approved slab-based user fee for availing transport of   from source. An amount of Rs 3,000 will be charged for tankers with a capacity of 5,000 litres ( slab 1). Between 5,000 and 7,500 litres (slab 2), the amount will be Rs 4,000 and for tankers with a capacity of 7,500 to 10,000 litres, the amount shall be Rs 6,000. 
 
 The user fee and collection charges will also be monitored by city corporation. Bookings shall be made at corporation control room and service can be availed on rotation basis. The city corporation will collect user fees for each slab at a rate of Rs 750, Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,500 respectively for slabs 1,2 and 3. 
 
 The city corporation will execute the new system with the help of water authority. Sewage treatment plant at Muttathara , water authority drainage division, Enchakkal, Kuriathi will also be used for the purpose. 
 
 At present, corporation has been unable to cater to the demand for removal of septic waste with vehicles which are more than a decade old. This often gives opportunities for private tankers who charge high rates and discharge it either on road side or in water bodies. One tanker with a capacity of 6,000 litres, two tankers with a capacity of 4,000 litres and another one with 1,500 litre capacity will be purchased by corporation. 
 
 “With this system, the transport of septic waste will be completely authorized and we can ensure that none of our water bodies get polluted with septic waste. Corporation would be able to recover the expense through user fees,” said a health official associated with civic body. 
 
 The decision of the corporation council will complement the ongoing efforts by local bodies to rejuvenate major water bodies in the district.
 
 
