Trichy: The interim stay on the HC ban on sand mining by the   has given a boost to the construction industry, sand lorry owners and drivers. However, the move has not gone down well with farmers and environmentalists in the region. 

 Farmers see the interim stay as an unfortunate decision not in the interest of the environment. “Rampant illegal sand mining over the years has collapsed the ecology in Tamil Nadu. The ban by the Madras high court gave us a ray of hope to protect the Cauvery and Kollidam rivers. The SC order without considering the drought and ground water depletion has added insult to our injury,” said Ayilai Siva Suriyan, district secretary of Tamilaga Vivasayigal Sangam.
 
 Lorry owners who had threatened to protest against the state government over the closure of sand quarries heaved a sigh of relief, but they expected the apex court to lay down stringent rules to regulate the sand mining. 
 
 “The order is the first step. The court will issue guidelines that should make the sand mining process a transparent one. The lorry owners should remit the price for the sand at the government treasuries only. Without proper guidelines, the stay on the ban would be a recipe for disaster,” said  , president of Tamil Nadu sand lorry owners coordinate welfare committee from Chennai. 
 
  Association of India (BAI), whose construction business had suffered a lot owing to scarcity of sand, expressed satisfaction while insisting on crackdown on sand being smuggled to neighbouring states. 
 
 “The stay on the ban may lead to reopening of quarries and free flow of sand. The government should ensure that the sand should not be smuggled to other states like Kerala via Coimbatore. Manual sand mining instead of machineries will help sustain the natural resource,” said C Kumaravelu, former chairman of BAI, Trichy chapter. 
 
 Before the ban, sand quarries had been functioning at 11 places in the district - M Pudhur, Manamedu, Seeplapudhur, Kariamanickam, Thiruvasi Kiliyanallur, Kondayampettai, Sirugamani, Panayakurichi, Viragalur and Aalambadi. 
 
 Out of the 11 quarries, five quarries were situated in the Cauvery River while the remaining six were located in Kollidam River. 
 
 
