CHARMINAR: Located in the heart of  , the iconic  , has been lying in neglect for months now, courtesy the apathy of the government. Even as the holy month of   is only days away, mosque officials and devouts rue how the masjid still lacks basic facilities.

 
 “Unfortunately, the mosque had been in a bad shape for a long time and we are extremely unhappy with how the government authorities are neglecting the repair and renovation of the mosque,” a Wakf activist said, sharing how the three-centuries-old heritage structure has been undergoing restoration for over six months now.
 
 While Waqf officials, accompanied by staffers from the state archaeology department and Charminar MLA   inspected the mosque in January and assured that the works will be completed before Ramzan, there has been little progress on the ground, activists said.
 
 Raising a word of caution, they said how poor maintenance, without vision, can prove to be detrimental to the existence of the ancient structure that is ridden with structural problems, which require urgent attention.
 
 Not only does it have water seeping from the main roof and cracks on many of its wall, the mosque even has no proper washrooms. According to activists, the main roof on the right side of the mosque has developed major cracks, which could lead to its collapse any moment, if not repaired soon.
 
 “This structure needs government’s attention. Only Rs 2 crore has been released out of the Rs 8.48 crore that were sanctioned by the government for renovation works. This apart, different contractors are assigned for different works. We do not have so much space inside for the material that each contractor needs for his work and if we get each work done separately, it will take several years to complete the work,” said M A  , superintendent of Mecca Masjid said. He added: “I don’t see the logic behind assigning work of a single structure to different contractors and releasing the sanctioned money in instalments.”
 
 However, completing the renovation works before Ramzan is not possible, he said adding they have reached an agreement with the builder who sought 18 months’ time to complete renovation works.
 
