TIRUNELVELI: More than 300 life convicts languishing at the   for more than a decade are brimming with hope after chief minister   announced the release of those completing 10 years in jail.

 The chief minister made the key announcement on Wednesday as part of the MGR centenary celebrations, and if things go as per the script, the prisoners are likely to walk out free on or before January 17, the birthday of MGR.
 
 The news came as a New Year gift to about 300 life convicts who have been behind bars for a decade, some even 18 years, in the   prison. 
 
 A majority of the 700 convicts presently in Palayamkottai prison are from Tirunelveli, Tuticorin and Kanyakumari districts. Around 600 are life convicts.
 
 Those frequenting the   operated by the inmates on the jail are greeting prisoners with the good news. For many, who spent nearly a quarter of their lives there, the announcement could not have come at a better time.
 
 A lot of them have learned newer skills while some have learned higher education, but nothing compares to the hardest lesson they have been taught. "Above all, we have learnt what patience is," said a prisoner who has served 17 years in the jail. Convicted for murder, the man, who is now 40, said that he would now not react even if someone beat him up. "I don't want to retaliate and waste more years in jail. This has taught me a lot," he added.
 
 Relatives of the inmates said that convicts found rays of hope of getting out of their confinements last November when the authorities began an audit of those who completed 10 years with good conduct. Now that it has been confirmed they would be out, they want to lead a simple, normal life. The glad news apart, they said that they would be sorely missing their fellow inmates once out of jail.
 
 "We are closer than family. They comforted me when I was depressed and helped me recover. Some will be released now but there are many others who have completed seven or eight years and will be in the jail. We hope that they will be released soon," he added.
 
 A prison official told TOI that they had not got a government order on the release till date but have prepared a list of more than 320 inmates who have completed 10 years, as instructed by the department authorities. The official was hopeful that at least 300 of them will be released, when the announcement came. 
 
 
