AURANGABAD: There seems to be no solution in sight for the garbage issue, as the standing on Tuesday directed the civic body to address the issue immediately. The   has been strugling since last month on all fronts to dispose of 400 tonnes of waste on daily basis. 

 The garbage laying all over the city poses serious health hazards to the citizens. The divisional commissioner and the government too had to step in following a court ruling, a few days ago, and a meeting to this effect discussed means to dispose of 2,500 tonne garbage that lay on the roadsides and at various private and civic body open spaces.
 
 Worried over the civic body administration's resolve to treat and process the garbage locally, the standing committee members demanded the administration to take corporators into confidence before garbage processing. 
 
 The members said that the people are already getting angry over the delay in the process. Till the new system or machines are placed in order, the civic body would have to compost wet garbage and process requires at least 21 days. "If the planning is not made right now, the garbage would pave way for different sorts of problems," said Sitaram Sure.
 
 Syed Azim of the   sought the standing committee chairman   to direct the administration to pay special attention to the old city areas as there were no open spaces available for processing and composting the waste.
 
 Kirti Shinde suggested the civic body to conduct workshops at different places to create awareness among the masses.   suggested to provide an exclusive vehicle for garbage lifting in Misarwadi and Naregaon wards that remain neglected when it comes to sanitation work. 
 
 While participating in the discussion, the additional municipal commissioner Shrikrishna Bhalsingh said, "The civic body staff is encouraging residents to segregate the wet and dry garbage at home while the composting of wet garbage would be done at open space of the civic body." He also said that the vehicles would be made available for the purpose. Barwal directed the administration to complete the entire process within a week.
 
 Meanwhile, the divisional commissioner Purshottam Bhapkar has on Monday convened a meeting of officials concerned to discuss means of disposing 2,500 tonne of garbage with immediate effect. 
 
 He said that the residents have so far displayed patience. 
 
 Bhapkar also asked the hoteliers not to dump their waste in the open and instead ensure that waste is disposed of scientifically.
 
 
