CHANDIGARH: In a tragic incident, a 36-year-old groom was killed in celebratory firing during jaago, a pre-wedding celebration, in   township of Haryana’s   district late on Saturday night.

 The groom, Switzerlandbased   Singh, had come to India a week ago for his wedding, which was to be held on Sunday.
 
 Vikramjeet succumbed to his injuries at a private hospital in Patiala. Hiselder brother Surender Singh had used his .312 bore gun for celebratory firing during the jaago ceremony. Little did he realise that his younger brother, who was to marry a woman from Baba Bakala area of  , would be fatally hit by his bullets.
 
 Surender Singh has been booked in a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, registered against him at Gulha Cheeka police station. However, he is yet to be arrested. According to information, both the brothers were settled in   and had come to India last week for Vikramjeet’s wedding. “We have verified that the .312 bore gun was owned by Surender, who a licence for it. Eyewitnesses told the police the jaago function was in progress and Vikramjeet’s family members and relatives were dancing when Surender fired many shotsin the air,” Gulha Cheeka   Sultan Singh said.
 
 “One of the shots fired by Surender Singh hit his brother and groom Vikramjeet and the other shot hit Vikramjeet’s friend  ,’’ the DSP added.
 
 Vikramjeet collapsed on the spot and along with Navtej, he was rushed to a private hospital in Patiala, where Vikramjeetsuccumbedtohisinjuries. Navtej’s condition is serious and he has been referred to PGI Chandigarh.
 
 “Soon after getting intimation about the tragic incident at 2am from Patiala, our teams rushedtothespot as well as hospital,” said the DSP.
 
 Sincethe accused as well as the victim are from the same family, handling the case has become tough for the police as they are waiting for the family to hand over Surender Singh.
 
 Regarding Surender’s arrest, the DSP said: “Our investigation is in progress and we shall arrest him soon.”
 
