NAGPUR: Almost two-third of the children (about 66 lakh) in the country suffer from sexual, mental, emotional and physical abuse before the age of 18 years, said Dr   from Delhi who works for the rights of children.

 Seth, who is the chairman of the Indian Child Abuse Neglect and Child Labour (ICANCL) and executive councillor for International Society for Prevention of Child Abuse and Neglect (ISPCAN), was in the city to attend the national annual conference of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics.
 
 He is also on the world committee of the   to prevent sexual and physical abuse of children. He has been working on understanding the intricacies of these phenomenon. He said the central government had formed a body about a few months back in 13 states, which body found that 50% of the children in 70 districts had suffered abuse.
 
 “The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POSCO) Act has been there since 2012 but we have not yet succeeded in curbing violation of rights of children. About 8.30 crore children in India are forced into marriage before adulthood. It is a known fact that about 46% of violation of a child’s right is done by a known person from family or friends,” said Seth.
 
 “POSCO Act makes doctors even more important in ensuring prompt and adequate response to child victims. There are specific provisions in the Act that require physicians to provide emergency medical care, including gathering appropriate information, conducting a comprehensive medical examination with documentation of physical findings, collecting forensic evidence, keeping accurate medical records, providing emotional support and safety to victims, and making appropriate mental health referrals,” he said.
 
 “Places like  , Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Odisha, New Delhi are the ones where violation of children’s right is extreme. They live under inhuman conditions. In the name of online violence, five kids are abused every second,” said Seth.
 
 “This is because the health of children in particular and health in general is the most neglected aspect in the country. Only 1.5% of the budget is spent on health of which only 0.5% is spent on protection and treatment of children,” he added.
 
 
