Prachi Arya 

 Lucknowites recently witnessed a spectacular art show during the Colorothon organized at Ram Manohar   in Gomti Nagar. India’s largest open art event, Colorothon, hosted the largest open-air art gallery and it gave a platform for people from all walks of life and all ages, to come together and draw from their imagination and fill blank canvases. It was not less than a carnival for the city dwellers, where children as well youngsters, were spotted participating with full enthusiasm. Throughout the park, people sat on benches, chairs or even grass to paint whatever they liked. While a few painted portraits, a few like Vandana Sehgal painted the old Lucknow skyline. Several famous personalities like  ,  , Nita Ambani and also UP CM Yogi Adityanath became the artists’ muse at the event. 
  
  Youngsters painting at Lohia Park (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
 The event was inaugurated by PN Singh, vice chairman, Lucknow Development Authority, in the presence of Padma Bhushan, Ram V Sutar, sculptor and artist, and Guinness record holder artist,  . "Yeh art ka samundar hai and I want everyone to enjoy and get to the core of it," said Sutar.
  
  Director   also painted a sketch at the event (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
 
 Present at the event were artists from Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore, Indore, Gwalior and Ranchi, among other cities. Artist  , famous painter Swapan Bhandari, Vilas Kulkarni, national awardee realistic rangoli artist Pramod Sahu were also among those who were present on the occasion. A special tribute was given to singer Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan by Chhote Rahat Fateh Ali Khan, a famous singer from the Gwalior gharana and his group. They sang songs like Mere Rashke Qamar, Tumhe Dillagi Bhool Jaane Padegi, Afreen Afreen and more, which won the hearts of all. 
 Sunita Jha, a local artist, who was spotted doing wall painting, said, “Who could have imagined that Lucknow would get such an opportunity to witness an event like this!” 
 
  
  For   Big B was his inspiration for the painting (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
  
  Aarti Vaid prepared a 104 kg cake which was later donated to feed the under- privileged kids in the city (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
 Adding to the grandeur of the occasion was a huge cake weighing 104 kgs, which was painted by Aarti Vaid. Aarti and her team painstakingly painted and decorated the cake with flowers and designs made with fondue. Later, the cake was donated among lesser privileged kids. 
 Vandana Sehgal, principal and dean of an architecture college, and also an accomplished artist herself, said, "I always believe that art transcends you to a different level. I saw people of all ages coming and sketching here. Even those small hands painting their imagination. It feels so good to see Lucknow people getting up in the morning and coming for events like this."
 
  
  Paintings put up for sale at the event, the proceeds of which went for charity (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
  The highlight of the event was the painting exhibition where more than two thousand impressionistic paintings were put on sale for a charitable purpose. 
 
  
  (L-R) Faiz, Chhote Fateh Ali Khan, Sami Ahmad, Mushahid and Shoeb (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
  
  Lakshman Kumar painted Salman Khan’s face on his canvas (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
  
  Prabhu Narain Singh, LDA, VC, painting a wall at Shaheed Path (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
  And while people painted at Lohia park, another group of painters from Delhi, painted the walls of Shaheed Path in rainbow hues. The painters, around a dozen, spent the whole day painting murals, portraits and nature scenes on the wall lining the highway. A few paintings also depicted the rich culture and heritage of the city. "The main idea behind this initiative was to beautify the city by showcasing art, heritage and the rich culture of Lucknow. We want people to express their love for colours and the joy that they feel in painting. It will certainly rekindle the lost joy for art and drawing in people." said PN Singh, who also tried his hand at painting on one of the walls of the highway. 
 
 
  
  Praveen Upadhye (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
  
  Vandana Sehgal (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
  
  Vijay (L) and Shailendra (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
  
  Vijendra Pratap (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
  
  Ram V Sutar and Sneha Charan (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
  
    and   (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
 
 
