CHANDIGARH: A young IPS officer from   has approached the Punjab and Haryana high court against the order of a lower court which reprimanded him for not wearing his uniform during a court hearing.  , posted as SP (telecom) in  , has told the high court that   district and sessions judge M M   acted as if he was an emperor with divine powers while insisting on a dress code and pleaded that his order be set aside. 

 Taking cognizance of the plea, the high court has asked for the Haryana government's response on the issue. The case will now come up on April 18. 
 
 The officer has argued that the judge condemned him for having committed an offence under Section 228 (intentional insult or interruption to public servant sitting in a judicial proceeding) of the IPC without following set procedures under law. He has also submitted that he was never served a notice nor was a reply demanded from him before the judge passed the order.
 
 "The judge proceeded to hold the petitioner guilty in an imperial style as if in exercise of the divine rights ascribed to the emperors of the past ages," his counsel, senior advocate R S Cheema argued. 
 
 
 
 
 The procedure is, to say the least, entirely unknown to the law and flagrantly violative of all provisions and principles,” his counsel said.
 
 During the hearing before Justice T S Dhindsa of the high court, Cheema also argued that as far as a serving police officer who has been summoned to appear as a witness in a court is concerned, there would be no provision which would prescribe a particular dress code. Cheema sought directions to set-aside the January 11 order and to expunge the unwarranted remarks and warnings or observations recorded in the order.
 
 Singh appeared before the district and sessions judge in his civvies onJanuary 11 as prosecution witness in connection with a criminal case. On being asked why he was not in police uniform, Singh cited an administrative order according to which he was supposed to wear the uniform only on Mondays and the first half of Fridays.
 
 “I was rudely reprimanded by the judge in the open court for not appearing in uniform. I tried to explain my position politely but the judge said in a loud and commanding voice—you apologise, otherwise I will throw you behind bars,” said the officer in his plea. His counsel further stated that the petitioner found himself in a state of metal agony and stress but readily apologised to ensure that court proceedings moved on smoothly.
 
 The officer has contended that despite being apologetic, he was let off with a warning, thus he suffers a stigma on account of the contents of the order.
 
 
 
