Mysuru: Unhappy with the municipal authorities neglecting development of the procession route of the   chariot, residents have hit upon a novel idea to register their protest against them – they have erected a notice board near the   asking them to sell the   if they are not inclined towards improving the road.

 Dodda Jathre is one of the key events at Nanjangud, wherein five chariots are dragged through the thoroughfares of the old town by devotees. This year, the event has been scheduled on march 28, and the district administration has been working on providing basic facilities to devotees, who visit the temple from across Karnataka.
 
 Members of the Nanjangud Samagra Rathabeedhi Abhivruddhi Horata Samithi alleged that neither the temple authorities nor the municipal authorities appear to be bothered about taking up improvement of the road.
 
 The unique form of protest by the samithi members comes in the wake of another demonstration they held recently – the members organised an Urulu Seve (a form of worship where a devotee rolls around the temple). The members are demanding that the road be improved by removing all encroachments along the procession route.
 
 The message on the notice board alleges that officials of the public works department and municipal authorities are hand in glove with those who have encroached land around the temple. “There is no proper road to take the main chariot of the temple, which weighs 110 tonnes, and has six huge wheels. It was built by Gouthama Maharishi,” the message read.
 
 If the authorities concerned were incapable of improving the condition of the road, they should sell the Dodda Ratha, the message went on. “Be loyal to owners of buildings who have bribed you. If your (authorities and leaders) agenda is development, then the encroachments should be removed without fear,” the message on the board stated.
 
 Nanjangud Yuva Brigade member ‘Snake’ Basavaraju told TOI, “The municipal authorities and local leaders are afraid of acting against the encroachers. We also met deputy commissioner D Randeep recently, and submitted a memorandum to get the encroachments along the procession route, and he has assured us of action.”
 
 Basavaraju alleged that the municipal authorities halted work it had initiated on the road since they were afraid of what owners of the encroaching structures could do. “Owing to the poor condition of the roads, the wheels of the chariot keep getting stuck during the procession,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, Randeep has convened a special meeting with officials from various departments to discuss the grievances aired by the citizens. 
 
 
