BENGALURU: After all the drama and mud-slinging of the last few days, the 15th   began on a sombre note. Anxiety was writ large on the faces in the treasury benches, while the Opposition had a distinct aura of confidence. Despite this, neither side engaged nor took potshots.

 Congress MLAs were the first to arrive, followed by BJP. JD(S) MLAs came five minutes after proceedings began. Home minister in the previous Siddaramaiah government Ramalinga Reddy was seen checking if all Congress MLAs had their identity cards and election certificates.
 
 Chief minister B S Yeddyurappa was called to take oath first, but then moved to the lounge for the most part of the day, meeting BJP national leaders Prakash Javadekar, J P Nadda, H N Ananthkumar and P Muralidhar Rao.
 
 Pro tem speaker K G Bopaiah administered the oath of office to the new MLAs. Aurad BJP MLA Prabhu Chauhan was conspicuous in his traditional Rajasthani attire.
 
 The initial tension evaporated as the ceremony began and MLAs chatted, discussing their campaign strategies and victory margins. That the MLAs were chatting freely, meeting journalists and spending time in the lounge was an indication that the floor test would not be such a nail-biting affair after all. MLAs from both sides were heard bantering about the ‘offers’ and ‘deals’ they could have wrangled to switch sides.
 
 Former CM Siddaramaiah cut a lonely figure, sitting in the lounge snacking. Satish Jarkiholi was the only Congress MLA who spent time with him. Some attributed the party’s poor show to Siddaramaiah’s “arrogance” and his attacks on HD Deve Gowda and Kumaraswamy. “People watch your behaviour. They wait for elections to teach lessons. That is what happened. Statements like ‘Kumaraswamy will never become CM’ did us harm,” a senior Congress leader said.
 
 Congress MPs K H Muniyappa, D K Suresh and Prakash Hukkeri watched from the press gallery, while BJP MPs H N Ananth Kumar, P C Mohan and Shobha Karandlaje were in the officers’ gallery. As Yeddyurappa read his resignation speech, Karandlaje was in tears.
 
 But BJP’s stand seems to be that it will fight another day. BJP MLA CT Ravi said: “When there is a flood, the tiger and the deer will both try to ride it out on the same island. A similar scenario is being played out with the coalition of Congress and JD(S). One will eat up the other.” 
 
