NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court’s warning to the   has made the north and east corporation hopeful of tackling their financial crunch.   said that it might ask the   to release   directly to the civic bodies if additional finances are not provided by the Delhi government. As many as 35,000 employees of the north corporation and over 18,000 employees of east corporation, including teachers, doctors, technical staff and retired personnel, haven’t been paid their dues in the last several months.

 While only sanitation workers are getting paid to avert a sanitation crisis, funds for them too are getting diverted from other heads like provident fund. The civic bodies are demanding release of funds from Delhi government based on the   recommendations and the councillors of east corporation, led by east Delhi mayor, had even organised a dharna in front of Delhi secretariat on Monday.
  
  
 Neema Bhagat, EDMC mayor, said, “It is our constitutional right to get fourth DFC fund. Now, the fifth finance commission file has also been stopped at UD ministry and it will not be brought in the budget. The court directions are in the right spirit and we should be able to pay salaries and fulfil our promises.”
 
 Preety Agarwal, the mayor of north corporation, agreed and said, “Enough assurances have been made but there has been no action. We should be able to at least pay the salaries of our employees. The solution might finally come from the court.”
 
 Employees of east corporation haven’t received their salaries from December and north corporation employees haven’t been paid their dues since January.
 
  The civic bodies are demanding release of funds as per the fourth DFC and implementation of fifth DFC by Delhi government. “The east corporation estimates that it will get Rs 9,125 crore as per fourth DFC, which will go a long way in tackling our financial crunch as we need Rs 1,800 crore annually for salaries alone. We are not able to generate even that much of revenue,” an official said.
 
 
