CHANDIGARH: Five   varsities and one from   are among the Top 100 universities in the country, according to the human resource development ministry’s national ranking framework.

 The Panjab University is the best varsity of the region with an overall ranking of 33. Patiala’s Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology has been ranked 50th and IISER, Mohali, was close behind at 55th spot on the NIRF list released on Tuesday.
  
  
 The Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, slipped to 60th rank and Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, has been ranked number 86 on the list.
 
 Haryana was represented by Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University in Hisar on the list. It managed 76th rank on the MHRD list.
 
 The Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology and Guru Nanak Dev University improved their scores and rankings compared to 2017, but the Punjab Agricultural University slipped from 40th rank in 2017 to 60th rank this year.
 
 All the universities in the region have scored low due to negligible number of patent and grant filings and annual research earnings from these grants.
 
 Disagreeing with the entire notion of a ranking framework, Prof Arvind of IISER physics department said, “Ranking is a myth. We cannot evolve our human resource by rankings. This is a short-sighted vision of politicians.”
 
 Discussing the patent filings and research earnings criteria, Prof Arvind said, “We are relatively new and cannot have those earnings. Also, we are not meant to produce technology for patents and have a different mandate.”
 
 The PAU seems to be satisfied with its ranking has attributed its slide to the fact more institutions are being ranked this time.
 
 “Look at our increase in newer yields of crops. I am proud of the university. The ranking needs to be understood and analysed. May be more competitors have joined and we have scored less than last year,” said the PAU vice-chancellor, Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon.
 
 The Indian Institute of Technology Ropar features among the Top 5 new IITs. It has been ranked 22nd among all engineering institutes in the country. Happy with the institute’s ranking, Prof. S.K Das, director, IIT Ropar, said, “We feel this is just the beginning, the best of IIT Ropar will be visible in the coming years.”
 
 
