CHENNAI: As the train picked up speed after Minjur station and the huts along the tracks turned a blur, 50-year-old motorman Suresh’s* hands froze. Barely 1km away, a young couple came onto the track and sat in a tight embrace, waiting for death. Within a minute, flesh and blood slapped against the cabin glass. Suresh shuddered.

 “It’s been six years, but whenever I cross that spot, my heart skips a beat and hands start shivering. I know it wasn’t my mistake, but...” says Suresh, his voice trailing away.
 
 
 
  
 
 The statistics are well known. Every year, more than 1,000 die on railway tracks in Chennai and its neighbouring districts. Almost 80% die because they walk on the railway tracks. The numbers increase every year even though the   spends crores to build walls and run campaigns to keep jaywalkers off the tracks. In Chennai division, one in every three such accident happens near a station with a foot over-bridge. “This means the victim has been careless,” said a railway official. Many of the dead include youngsters who had earphones on and were shut out from the train’s blaring horn.
 
 But while the deaths are recorded, the psychological trauma of the motorman, the last to see a victim alive, is seldom documented. Many lose sleep, suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder or are just numbed. Indian Railways has no framework to address this either through counselling or asking the motorman to take time off work. In comparison, when a passenger jumped in front of a metro rail train in Vadapalani in 2016 and got hit, the motorman was given a short break and shifted to a non-operations role.
 
 “We don’t share this with our family. It’s bad enough that we have to see the dead bodies, why should they suffer. I tell them to change the TV channel when the news report is telecast,” said  , a suburban train motorman who has been running trains for 27 years. 
 
 Suresh shared a colleague’s experience who had to physically remove the bodies from the tracks without gloves before resuming the train. “The smell of blood and flesh lingers on for days,” he said.
 
 The stress is higher with near-misses, when for instance, a passenger is trapped between the coach and the platform and for a tense five minutes the motorman does not if the victim is dead or alive.
 
 Usually after such an incident, motormen skip a meal and the only vent is coworkers who have had similar experiences. There is a drive to improve the running rooms where motormen rest after a shift by adding air-conditioners and soft beds. Yoga sessions have also been held to reduce stress.
 
 In some cases, the trauma is not the worst motormen face. Suresh’s colleague once bore the brunt of irate residents near Minjur who began to pelt the train with stones after it ran over a few jaywalkers. “The people saw the motormen as the murderer,” said Suresh. Some now skip wearing their official uniform fearing such incidents.
 
 “The motorman suffers from learned helplessness, a situation where they feel nobody can solve their problem. It is a very serious issue and the railway board should conduct a survey to identify and later alleviate their emotions,” said professor S  , head of the psychology department, University of Madras.
 
 Motormen relive the trauma when in cases of multiple deaths railway conducts a departmental inquiry. “The motorman is asked to recall the incident repeatedly, replaying the intricate details,” said Suresh.
 
 The police too conduct an inquiry and motormen are called to recall the gory details. “The calls don’t come through the railway office. They call directly on our mobiles while we are resting after a long day’s work,” said E Balakrishnan, a motorman with 19 years of experience.
 
 Southern Railway’s jurisdiction extends up to Gudur in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. So sometimes, the motormen have to travel to local courts there and converse in an unfamiliar language with a less-friendly police.
 
 All motormen TOI spoke to accepted a sense of taboo about admitting post-traumatic stress disorder as railways would not accept employees ‘without a sound mind’. But the opinion among top railway officials is divided. One official termed the issue an occupational hazard faced by railway employees and that motormen go under periodic medical checkups to ensure they are in sound health. 
 
 Suresh scoffed at the label of ‘occupational hazard’. “Officials who are not in the field will never know the hazards,” he said.
 
 But another younger official recognised the stress, agreeing with calls for a policy on counselling. “It happens abroad where motormen are put off duty or sent on a holiday after the incident,” he said.
 
 Karunanidhi opined that the railway board should spread awareness by conducting programmes instead of indirectly dealing with it. “A policy of psychological counselling is necessary to enhance the performance of motormen,” he said.
 
 *(name changed)
 
 
