n“The girl was sitting in a park with a boy who had his arms wrapped around her, kissing her occasionally. Can you imagine? We cannot allow this in our area. This is a respectable society.” — Krishna Prasad Saha, general secretary of DL Block Residents’ Association 

 n“I did nothing wrong. It was the women who had crossed all limits. Everyone is entitled to his/her own space, particularly because I know I was neither committing any nuisance nor disturbing anyone.” — Shataparni Bhattacharya, victim of moral policing on Jan 25
 
 A day after Bhattacharya came out with her frightening story of how a section of   residents assaulted her for allegedly behaving in an “obscene manner” in public — a charge she vehemently denies — local residents were sharply divided. The schism, expectedly, was along age lines: while the younger lot were permissive about mingling with members of the opposite sex and indulging in occasional PDA (public displays of affection), getting cosy in public made older residents see red, even to the extent of justifying moral policing. 
 
 Cops probing the incident at DL Block park haven’t been able to find the main accused, as Shataparni’s complaint had not named anyone. But TOI met a few women and other residents who had marshalled the moral police. . They said they were not repentant for what they did. “She was sitting in an extremely obscene manner, and there were children playing around who were discussing how the boy was kissing her,” said Saha. “That’s why some of the mothers asked them to behave, to which the girl took offence and began abusing them,” he added, justifying what happened later. His wife Kakoli, who had called the police, said she received a call from the group of women claiming the young woman and her friend were caught in an “inappropriate position” and were “abusing” them. “So, I called the police. The girl argued with the cops and tried to leave. When I asked her to stay back, she kicked me, and the ladies stopped her. But we did not assault her,” she said.
 
 Shataparni said the cops had assured her of action. “The youth who was with me that evening is a close friend, and I feel it is extremely natural for a friend to put an arm around another friend’s shoulder. We had not done anything obscene or even anything to offend anyone. Those women started abusing me. Isn’t it natural for me to protest if someone abuses me for no reason? If they think they have done the right thing by assaulting and abusing me for such a simple act, I leave it to the judgment of society and the police to decide who is correct and who is wrong,” she said.
 
 
