Nagpur: Despite a number of enforcement measures, traffic violations in the city are on the rise. Heading the list is the youth brigade; in just a four-day drive outside educational institutions in 2017, the city police penalized 2,942 students for violating various traffic rules.

 In a   reply to  , traffic police replied that during a special drive outside some city colleges from August 26 to August 28, 2017, they booked 626 parents and vehicle owners for allowing their wards to violate traffic rules. The police also detained 1,192 vehicles during the drive.
 
 Though DCP (traffic)   was not available for comments, a senior traffic cop said apart from penalizing youngsters, the department is also focusing on launching an awareness drive for youngsters.
 
 The traffic police claim they are charging fines from underage students of Standard X and XI for driving two-wheelers without licences and/or helmets. They are penalizing parents too. “But this does not seem to be solving the problem, as we do not see any improvement on the road,” said traffic expert Vinay Kunte.
 
 “The fine is paid by the parents and if they can afford to buy a two-wheeler for their underage child, they can definitely pay the fine. After paying the fine, the parents think that they have been absolved of all sins,” he pointed out.
 
 “When a two-wheeler is bought for the child, can the parents be expected to ask their child to keep it at home and start riding a bicycle to school and all the coaching classes? Will the children listen to their parents? Will it not be considered too unfair on their part when all other underage children are driving a big two-wheeler with impunity, without fear of traffic police?” he asked.
 
 High court lawyer  , who has filed many petitions pertaining to deteriorating city traffic, said, “We are losing precious lives to callous driving leading to accidents. Such accidents create a sense of grief and loss just for one or two days in the city. No one is bothered to take corrective measures. The tragedy that befell the Bhaskare family, when their 16-year-old son Chaitanya rammed his gearless scooter into an autorickshaw, should have woken up all concerned.”
 
 It can happen to any parent with a kid driving a powerful, gearless scooter. The MV Act 1988 allows license for gearless two-wheelers to kids above age 16. This was to enable them to drive 50cc mopeds, as upgrades from their bicycles. However, the MV Act does not mention the engine capacity. Consequently, over the years, powerful, gearless scooters with 125cc engines are commonly used by students.
 
 “The police beat marshals and traffic police jeeps and vans need to be authorized to check traffic offenders in lanes and bylanes, and the not so important roads, where traffic users usually take traffic rules casually. I have seen bikers carrying helmets and wearing them just before they reach a known check point,” pointed out Chatterjee.
 
 
