Nagpur: The second day of the ongoing 15th Maharashtra Rajya   saw a fresh set of performances by young artistes and a pleasant mix of themes, most of which were related to the lives of children. Moral values, technology, upbringing and social work were some of the topics brought to the table by theatre groups.

 ‘Kombda aala re’ was the first play for the day, presented by Stree Shikshak Prasarak Mandal, Mahal. Written by Sunanda Sathe and directed by Seema Fadnavis, the play brought to fore concepts such as heaven, death, the grim reaper, good deeds, pearly gates and so on, as explained to children. The play attempts to inculcate values of environment protection, women protection, support to the poor and social work through the story of how a greedy trader and a social worker are buried differently after their death, based on their work. 
 
 ‘Sanvaadi’, on the other hand, was a play that urged audience to reflect on the over-use of technology, and how it robs communication between one’s close ones. The comic play showcased the character of late Aboli, who is sent to earth to make sure that her friends and relatives don’t make the same mistakes as her. This play was brought by Shrimati Dadibai Deshmukh Hindu Girls School, Wardha, written and directed by Archana Dhuldhule.
 
 Play ‘Cham Cham Chamko’ was produced by South Indian Education Society. Written by Dhananjay Sardeshpande and directed by Seema Godbole, the play portrayed how parents of today’s era have started to nurture children in a competition deadly environment, and how that has led to unacceptance of failure. The audience was urged to nurture children in a playful environment instead.
 
 Play ‘Gandh..Ek Anamik Chahul’ belonged to the Hudkeshwar branch of School of Scholars. It questions the audience about whether one owes any contribution to one’s society. The play showed young girl Ashwini, who happens to talk to a beggar girl, and it gives rise to questions of social importance within her. ‘Tapal’, written and directed by Sachin Urade, was brought by Wardha-based Sanskar Gyanpith. On Wednesday, the plays will be showcased 10am onwards. ‘Amhi natak kartoy’, ‘Raghav’, ‘Joyanache rang’, ‘Budhachi gosht’, ‘Goodbye Dr Aswal kaka’ and ‘Hum honge kamyab’ are scheduled to be presented.
 
 
