PANAJI : In a major setback to the state government, the high court of Bombay at Goa, on Wednesday, in an interim order, stopped transportation of mineral   on a petition filed by Goa Foundation.

 The court ordered an immediate suspension of transportation of all minerals related to the   operations of 88 leaseholders whose renewals were cancelled by the   last month. 
 
 The apex court had also directed the state government to stop all mining activities by March 15. While the state complied with the order, it allowed transportation of ore extracted till March 15, and dumped outside erstwhile lease areas, even after mining activities in the state came to a standstill. 
 
 The petitioner objected to this government decision, saying that, post March 15, the ore becomes the property of the state.
 
 The high court has asked the chief secretary to file an affidavit explaining how the government decision allowing transportation of ore is not tantamount to breach of the   order. 
 
 The petitioner alleged that the government, through the directorate of mines and geology, in collusion with some erstwhile leaseholders, has enabled extraction of vast quantities of ore illegally between February 7 and midnight of March 15, and allowed the same to be dumped outside lease areas.
 
 This was done despite the SC in two judgements clearly disallowing dumping outside lease areas, the petition stated. 
 
 “The directorate of mines has apparently facilitated advance payment of royalty on these vast quantities, likely exceeding 1 million tonnes, in order to enable the erstwhile leaseholders to claim ownership of the excavated ore and proceed for its export after March 15, thus bypassing the effect of the apex court’s directions,” the petitioner said.
 
 What is more problematic is that by these actions the safety of communities surrounding these mining leases has been endangered, the petitioner alleged.
 
 The petition also sought interim relief, pending hearing and final disposal, for an order confiscating all ores found outside mining leases and direction to take possession of lease areas of the erstwhile 88 mining lease holders and assume 100% responsibility for their safety aspects.
 
 The division bench comprising   and Justice Prithviraj Chavan has posted the hearing for April 18.
 
 
