GURUGRAM: Several government schools in the city on Friday failed to broadcast ‘Pareeksha Pe Charcha’, a programme where Prime Minister   gave advice to students on dealing with exam stress, despite a directive by CBSE. Though the programme was aired live by national broadcaster Doordarshan, these schools battled against several odds — from non-functional Edusat terminals to power outage.

 “I tried to set up the system in the morning, but the Edusat terminal did not work. The system clearly showed no signal,” said Ashish, Edusat operator at Government Girls Sr Secondary School, Bhim Nagar. “Our Edusat terminal is not working at all. The television set was damaged and has not been repaired. No one comes to check if the Edusats are working,” said, Vinod Kumar Malik, principal of Government Boys Sr Secondary School, Badshapur.
 
 In some schools, there was no electricity. Suman Sharma, principal, Government School, sectors 4-7, said, “This area has been battling the problem of power cuts for some time now. On Friday also, there was no electricity so, we made the kids sit on the ground. The students heard what the PM said through a radio set.” Karmla Puniya, principal, Government Sr Secondary School, Sohna, said, “There was no electricity in our area in the morning. So, we were not able to make the kids listen to what Modi said.”
 
 The much-hyped Edusat project was launched in 2007 with an investment of around Rs 100 crore to provide better education via satellite in 11,000 educational institutes, including 9,000 primary schools, across the state. More than 10 years have passed since. Today, there condition in city’s government schools is not good. 
 
 The Edusats were installed in 61 government schools in Gurgaon. According to an RTI response, there are 26 working Edusat, while 14 are faulty, in which three TV sets aere not working, five TV sets have been stolen and six others have some technical fault. 
 
 When contacted, the joint engineer in-charge of Gurgaon, said, “I am the only engineer in the entire district to look after the Edusat terminals. Whenever a school tells me that one set is not working, I do go there and repair it immediately. I have time and again told school principals to operate the system, now it’s their fault if they can’t run it.”
 
 
