NEW DELHI: A senior   of a   was   and his colleagues injured when a Tata Sumo   they were travelling in rammed into a   near Chirag Dilli flyover on Saturday morning. The driver of the truck fled the scene, but police said the cleaner had been held and questioned.

 Eyewitnesses said the dumper carrying stones had suddenly braked at the mouth of the flyover and the Tata Sumo slammed into it. Half the car got mangled under the truck due to impact of the collision. Flouting Supreme Court guidelines, the dumper did not have a rear under-run protection device.
 
 Umar Saeed, sitting in the front, was killed on the spot, while car driver Vashisht Yadav is battling for his life in AIIMS. The other passengers, Mozid Ahmed, Mohammad Anas Khan, Nazis Akhtar, Sainullah, Mohd Moktiyar and Prabhat Kumar, were admitted to hospital with head injuries. The cops said that the condition of at least two of them is very serious.
 
 Vijayanta Arya, additional DCP (South), said that a case under Section 304A of Indian Penal Code dealing with death due to negligence and negligent driving has been registered against the missing driver. The truck was found to be registered to Mintu Kumar Yadav, a Rajasthan resident, who has been summoned for questioning.
 
 Immediately after the incident, the truck driver had fled, leaving the vehicle at the accident spot. Having established the identity of the driver, police have launched a manhunt to arrest him.
 
 The cops are now probing how the truck was plying on the stretch when there was a ban on movement of trucks during the time the incident happened. During interrogation, the cleaner told the cops that they were travelling to a dealer’s warehouse in south Delhi from Rajasthan and had slowed down at the mouth of the flyover to decide on the route they should take.
 
 Police said that the deceased and the injured men were on their way home after the night shift at a BPO in Gurgaon and were to be dropped at Jamia Nagar in south Delhi. Saeed’s family members revealed that he had joined the company four years ago and had been expecting a promotion this month. “We were hoping to get him married this year after he was promoted,” said Annas Saeed, the deceased’s elder brother. “We hadn’t ever thought that we would have to come and collect his body some day.” The father is employed in a private company.
 
 
