LUDHIANA: Next time you are at the court complex with your senior citizen parents, don’t worry. They will not have to walk the distance because e-rickshaws are available to ferry them. There is more good news. The service is free of cost. Yes, you read that right.

 Keeping in view the problems being faced by the senior citizens, especially differently-abled people and women who visit the district judicial complex along with the kids, District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) on Tuesday launched the service of two e-rickshaws to ferry them from the gate of complex to the court free of cost.
 
 District and sessions judge  , who is also DLSA chairman, flagged off the two battery-powered three-wheelers and said the facility has been started to help people, especially the elderly and differently-abled women so that they feel ‘good’ while entering the court complex. He said the e-rickshaws will be available near the gate at 9 am daily. 
 
 DLSA chairman said the facility will also solve the parking problem inside the complex. He said DSLA will introduce more such e-rickshaws in the future to facilitate the people.
 
 Secretary DLSA Gurpreet Kaur said this is perhaps the “first-of-its-kind initiative in the country” where e-rickshaws are being run for elderly, women and children visiting the court complex. She added the e-rickshaws will be operated by Para Legal Volunteers.
 
 DLSA secretary said they preferred e-rickshaws over other vehicles because they are pollution free. Besides this, she said, DLSA has also begun drinking water facility for the visitors on Tuesday.
 
 DLSA chairman said in the past, the DLSA and Ludhiana Police in association with   (OBC) had taken an initiative of tying radium belts around the necks of stray cattle.
 
 Gurbir Singh said the roaming animals were one of the main reasons of road accidents and they sought help from the media to create awareness. According to him, if the authorities can tackle the stray cattle menace, approximately 50 % road mishaps can be reduced.
 
 All additional district and sessions judges, chief judicial magistrates and members of Bar Association were also present at the event. 
 
 
