CHENNAI: President   has stressed on the importance of providing education to girls for the betterment of the family and highlighted the links between   and Punjab that date back to the days of spritual leader Guru Nanak. He also commended the importance given to education by the government and the families in the state. 

 
  
  President Ram Nath Kovind presents a gold medal to K S Viswanath, a BSc maths student, during the graduation day celebration at   on Saturday
 
 Speaking after handing over medals to 12 rank holders at the convocation of Guru Nanak College in the city on Saturday, Kovind said, "Of the graduating class, over one-third is girl students. Twelve students are university rank holders and are being honoured today with medals. And seven of the 12 medal winners are girls. These are impressive statistics. As I have said on earlier occasions, in educating a daughter, we educate not one but two families. An educated girl is a positive influence on both her parents' family as well as the family she marries into and builds with her husband. And of course, she contributes enormously at the workplace and in building our economy." 
 
 He also inaugurated Guru Amar Das Block and the Shaheed Baba Deep Singh auditorium where the convocation function was held. 
 
 Kovind said that the college was taking forward a long and rich history of engagement between Punjab and the Sikh community, and Tamil Nadu. "This history goes back to the period when Guru Nanak Dev, who was one of our greatest spiritual leaders and nation builders, visited Tamil Nadu as part of his journey to southern India. It is believed that he spent a few days in the holy town of Rameswaram."
 
 Earlier at the 160th convocation at  , Kovind said institutions in Tamil Nadu have shown commendable agility in nurturing an ecosystem that helps engineers and other qualified young people to become entrepreneurs and job creators. 
 
 The President said University of Madras had both benefited from and contributed to a tradition of scholarship that was central to Tamil Nadu's identity. Even ordinary families in the state emphasise the value of education. This has had a direct impact on social development indices and on the economy. "Tamil Nadu has a proud culture of research and innovation - whether in pure sciences or in medicine - and of engineering and manufacturing. It has a well-regarded IT sector and a growing digital economy. These are complemented by excellence in the humanities," Kovind said, adding that it was no surprise that Tamil language was among the most ancient in the world.
 
 "The ability to pursue education as an end in itself as well as to help fill gaps in day-to-day lives of our fellow citizens is commendable. In this context, the people of Tamil Nadu and institutions such as University of Madras are a model for our country," he said.
 
 
