Chandigarh: The special CBI court in Panchkula on Thursday granted bail to former Haryana bureaucrats, including M L Tayal, Chattar Singh, S S Dhillon, and most of the builders allegedly involved in the multi-crore Manesar land scam. Former chief minister and one of the main accused, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, however, was exempted from appearance on medical grounds.

 Hooda’s counsel submitted that former CM has several health issues including fracture in leg, diabetes and was at present admitted in the cardiology department of AIIMS, New Delhi for treatment.
 
 The case would now come up for hearing on May 1, when Hooda and other accused, who were not present in the court on Thursday, will have to appear. While granting bail to the accused, special CBI judge Jagdeep Singh asked them to furnish a bail bond of Rs 5 lakh each.
 
 Out of the total 34 accused, 30 were granted bail on Thursday after they furnished bail bonds. Four accused, including Hooda and builders Atul Bansal, Anil Batra and Gaurav Chaudhary, have been granted exemptions from appearance.
 
 Gaurav, who is son a sitting judge of a Punjab and Haryana high court, was granted exemption on medical grounds. Former chief town planner of Haryana government and one of the accused Jaswant Singh was also granted bail.
 
 The accused and senior bureaucrats, Tayal, Chhatar Singh and Dhillon had served as principal secretaries to CM during Hooda’s regime at different periods. While Tayal and Chhatar has also worked as members of the Competition Commission of India and the Union Public Service Commission respectively, Dhillon superannuated from civil services last year.
 
 On March 16, the CBI court had issued summons to Hooda and 33 other accused persons asking them to appear before the court to face prosecution in relation to the case.
 
 On February 2, CBI had charged them under section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) read with section 420 (cheating) of the IPC and various sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act for obtaining valuable thing or pecuniary advantage by corrupt or illegal means.
 
 The main allegations in the entire scam are that hundreds of acre land acquired from innocent farmers of Manesar and adjoining village in Gurgaon district at a low rate for “public purpose” was later licensed to real estate companies/builders/colonizers. The builders were thus also given out of term favours and concessions. On September 17, 2015, CBI had registered an FIR in relation to the scam.
 
 Chargesheet brought in truck
 
 As the chargesheet, copies of which were to be given to each accused, rus into 80,000 pages, the CBI had brought its photocopies in a truck. The vehicle was parked outside so that the accused could collect their copies while leaving the court premises. As per the law, it is mandatory for the prosecution to provide a copy of complete chargesheet to every accused free of cost.
 
 Accused free till outcome of case
 
 With the special CBI court granting regular bail to most of the accused, who had appeared on Thursday, the accused would now be free till the final verdict in the case is not announced. They, however, have to appear for the trial during all the hearings, unless exempted in exceptional circumstances.
 
 
