NAGPUR: Nagpur University may lodge a police complaint against   College of Engineering and Management for allegedly charging extra fee than the prescribed amount and not refunding scholarship and caution money of students over years. 

 NU’s management council (MC) will meet on Tuesday to approve the administration’s tough stance against the erring college near   railway station in   on Wardha Road.
 
 “We would act against the college, based on the report by a committee under humanities panel dean  . The panel also found college guilty of illegally collecting excess fees from the students under various heads, besides regular fees,” vice chancellor SP Kane told TOI.
 
 The panel was constituted on a complaint lodged by NSUI activist Ashish Mandpe who alleged fraud of over Rs3 crore by the college since its inception in 2008.
 
 “The panel recently submitted probe report which would be put before the MC’s meeting tomorrow. It had recommended strong action against the college, including lodging of FIR,” the VC said.
 
 Denying allegations, Wainganga’s founder   accused the VC of being biased as his wife had contested Senate polls from secular panel led by Dr Vedprakash Mishra, with whom he has bitter rivalry. “Since the government failed to release the scholarship dues, we used students fees initially, but we returned entire dues to them and even submitted all records to social welfare department. NU hasn’t granted us any chance to defend ourselves on panel’s recommendations. If VC wants to close the college, why was he putting report before MC,” he said. 
 
 Acting principal Salim Chavan said they had adjusted caution money of OBC and VJ/NT students as the state social justice and special assistance department didn’t provide development fees for them like SC/ST students. “We’ve done nothing wrong. All colleges adjust caution money into such funds for those who avail scholarships from the government,” he said.
 
 He added that he was only acting principal and had taken charge just three months back. “Full-time principal is someone else, who is appointed for five years,” he said. However, college’s website mentioned Chavan’s name as principal.”
 
 Mandpe said he had also lodged the complaint with social welfare department, and they also found massive irregularities in the colleges’ affairs.
 
 NU officials disclosed that when the Komawar-led panel visited college, the authorities allegedly threatened students against disclosing anything and didn’t produce verification records.
 
 Meanwhile, the VC said that eviction notices issued to all hostel inmates would exclude the research students pursuing PhD. Earlier, NU had issued notices to all of hostelites to vacate the rooms and rejoin after commencement of academic session in June-July.
 
 
