LUDHIANA: The Union finance minister   will present the last full Budget of the   government before 2019   elections today. People working in different sectors of Ludhiana are expecting that Jaitley will announce incentives to boost the economy. While students want the finance minister to improve the overall quality of education, others expect the minister to reduce the home loan interest. Ludhiana has been facing recession for the last few years and residents are hoping the new budget would give a boost to the economy. Some are also hoping for inititatives for increased investment in the key areas like agriculture and construction.

 Photo quotes
 
 Expectations galore
 
 As an entrepreneur, I want the raw material used in construction to come in 28% GST slab. This will reduce the price leading to more constructions and help generate employment and hence increase the income of people. This will give a boost to the economy. I want the finance minister to set single-window clearance for all real estate projects, especially housing to avoid execution and project delays.
 
 – HARMEET SINGH, a resident of Flower Enclave
 
 Now that the impact of demonetisation and introduction of GST has reduced to a certain extent, we do not want new taxes to be introduced. More taxes would only have a negative impact on the business. Diesel should come under the ambit of GST. I also want the finance minister to reduce the home loan interest and give a boost to the construction industry.
 
 – HARJINDER SINGH KUKREJA, an entrepreneur 
 
 From the investment point of view, the government should make doing business with India simple. Instead of customising the international practices to suit Indian requirements, the focus should be on shifting Indian practices and establishments to suit the international environment too. This will make India a truly global economy where trade and commercial activities can happen seamlessly.
 
 – Ramandeep Singh, jeweller
 
 I want Arun Jaitley to increase the duration for education loan deduction till fully paid. Also, it would be great if the tax deduction can be widened since the cost of education is increasing with each passing day. The finance minister should abolish dividend distribution tax to help the investors. Retaining long-term capital gain tax can also benefit equities. It’s also important to reduce GST on insurance products from 18% to 5%. The government should also introduce individual retirement scheme accounts. I want the finance minister to hike tax-free limit for medical allowances. Presently, the tax-free limit is Rs 15,000. If this limit is revised upward, companies will also be able to hike this allowance.
 
 – Surinder Pal Singh, banker
 
 As a government employee, I want Arun Jaitley to increase the taxable limit. And the house-rent and allowance should also be increased.
 
 –  , ACP
 
 I belong to the IT sector and would like the government to provide greater incentives for the digital transaction. I would also expect the finance minister to lower GST rates for the telecom services from 18% to 12% to give a boost to the digital payment infrastructure.
 
 –Kanwar Arora (21), who works in IT sector
 
 The budget should be used to improve the overall quality of education. National Assessment Survey was allocated only Rs 1 crore in last year’s budget. I hope, this year, it gets a hike. The education loan ranges from 10.4% to 14%. There should be some relief on education loan, too. There should be more Edutech initiatives like ‘ShaGun’ to monitor the performance of SWAYAM app that provides study material and digital classes to the students without any cost.
 
 Kuwar Chawla, student 
 
 
