SHILLONG: Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma, who is also in charge of the mining and geology ministry, has expressed optimism the ban on coal mining in the state imposed by the National Green Tribunal ( ) will be lifted. He, however, also assured the assembly that adequate steps will be taken for protecting the environment and ensuring the safety of miners. 

 Reiterating the state government's earlier resolution passed on September 24, 2015, Conrad, in his statement, urged the Centre to issue a Presidential notification to allow the state to continue its coal mining activities. The proposed notification will seek exemption from applying the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 and the Coal Mines (Nationalization) Act, 1973 in Meghalaya. 
 
 He also said the matter was also being discussed with the office of the prime minister, even as he expressed hope that the issue would be resolved soon.
 
 Informing the House of his recent meeting with the Union coal minister Piyush Goel, Conrad said the minister had expressed concerns over the impact of coal mining on the environment and safety of the miners. Pointing out that the earlier method of coal mining had led to pollution of water bodies in the state, Conrad said his government will ensure that the adverse effect of mining on the environment is minimal. "We will never compromise on the environment and safety of the miners," he said.
 
 "The government will have to strike a balance between economy and ecology. The miners should themselves take up the responsibility to ensure that the environment is not damaged," he added. The resumption of coal mining is important for the revival of the economy of the state, he said, adding that Meghalaya has incurred huge a loss in terms of revenues and jobs due to the ban. 
 
 The NGT had ordered an interim ban on coal mining in April 17, 2014 and asked the state government to immediately stop illegal rat-hole coal mining. The ban was based on a petition by the All Dimasa Students' Union and the  , alleging that coal mining in   has turned the water of the   acidic.
 
 
