Content writer Aishwarya Prashanth has been feeling vulnerable for the last few days. 29-year-old Aishwarya loves to post interesting updates about her daily life. So, when the news came out that over half a million Indian   users may have been affected in the recent   scandal, she was left shaken. The misuse of private data has made social media enthusiasts in Coimbatore sit up and take notice.

 A shocked Aishwarya says, “Right from the time the news broke out, I have stopped posting on social media. I loved being on networking sites. The photos that I posted on social media pages became my memories and they were a great platform to stay in touch with my friends. I used to change my profile picture quite often, too. I have now stopped everything, be it updating my whereabouts, pictures or interesting updates. I feel alarmed after the whole fiasco.”
 
 Hari Narayanan, a marketing executive says that though he is not an avid user of social media, he was shocked by the news as well. “I use social media to get my daily dose of news and gossip. I hardly share anything on social media. But, when I heard about it, I was quite shocked. It’s like there is no such thing as personal information today. Seconding Hari is Santhosh P, an engineering graduate. “We live in a world where our cyber data has become a reference point for jobs or even marriage. Once we put out our information online, we should just forget about  . Most of us spend a lot of time on social media and our identity is based on our social media profiles. At a time when many are battling social media addiction, this news has come as a shock.”
 
 Aishwarya, on the other hand, has now been now using the internet extensively to find out how data is leaked. “I keep scouring the internet to get more information about the same. It’s like I have lost trust in social media. I am spending a lot of time looking for details about data breach and loopholes in social media. This is not healthy either but I am worried.”
 
 Varun Varadarajan, founder of a social media promotions company, however says that it’s a price that we pay for using free data. “In today’s world, you cannot just do away with the internet. We use it to pay our bills, purchase things and even to make friends. There is a lot of customized information on the internet, for instance based on one’s transactions and history. There are ads that target a luxury product buyer or a frequent international traveler. The biggest mistake we make is to give the permission to access our data. Many of us don’t even bother to check the rules and clauses boxes. I think after the recent fiasco, there will be minor changes on Facebook and the networking site will be more user-friendly.”
 
 SN Ravichandran, member of   points out that any information that you put on social media is volunteering information. “Every personal data is risky- be it your pictures, likes, dislikes, date of birth or wedding anniversary. First, remove all the personal information from your pages. The information that you post comprises 20 per cent of the data. What Facebook takes from you is 60 per cent of it. You would have come across many surveys and quizzes on Facebook which require you to reveal an insane amount of personal information. Never fall for that trap. That data is used to build your social profile. You might be excited about the quiz but you will be revealing a lot of personal information without your own knowledge. And, it’s not only Facebook, even other networking apps like Whatsapp, and Instagram are not safe either. Even if you delete your FB account, your data can still be accessed through Whatsapp as they are all related. I could recently reveal every personal detail of a person who was not even on Facebook, thanks to his friends and children who have their respective accounts. One can access your information through your friends, too.”
 
 So, what is safe to post on social media? “When it comes to social media, nothing is ‘safe’ or ‘personal’. Comments on national issues or a news item do not cause much harm as they do not reveal intricate details. For instance, on Twitter, you limit your personal data to an extent. We should understand that one’s privacy is heavily compromised in today’s world. And, adding to the woes is that we do not even have a privacy policy or any act pertaining to it. All information you reveal online can be used by countries that are a threat to us,” he sums up.
 
  
 
