NEW DELHI: A parking lot on   Gandhi Marg, underground parking at Shahid Bhagat Singh Park, bridge near Salimgarh Fort, tunnel through Sunder Nursery — these infrastructure   in Delhi have either been scrapped or stalled indefinitely because they fall within 100 metres of protected national monuments. But things are about to change with the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act being amended on Tuesday to keep government and infrastructure projects out of such prohibition zones. Not surprisingly, heritage activists are up in arms, terming the change as sounding the “death knell for Indian heritage”.

 The prohibited (100m) and regulated (101-300m) area restrictions were included in the Amasr Act of 1993 in order to safeguard protected monuments. There are 173 of them in the capital, and over 3,600 across the country. The Act was amended in 2010 to set up the National Monuments Authority as the agency to enforce the 100-m ban.
 
 This provision has, however, encountered stiff resistance from sections of the public. Government agencies rue that in a city like Delhi, where heritage structures are common given the city’s antiquity, a ban on constructions in their proximity is an impediment to development. Residents unfortunate enough to be living within these controlled zones grumble that they cannot even repair their houses without permission.
 
 “The actual threat to monuments is not from a few residential houses, but from the huge infrastructure projects which can now be undertaken, thanks to this amendment,” said an alarmed heritage activist. “There will be no one to check the damages that ancient structures will suffer from such development projects. Government agencies anyway have never exhibited sensitivity about protecting heritage.”
 
 Sources confided that the decision to amend the law stemmed from three stalled national projects: an elevated national highway near Akbar’s Tomb in Agra, railway line near Rani ki Vav in in Gujarat and the Kolkata Metro. Work at these sites is expected to proceed at full speed now. “Damage to monuments might not only be visual but also structural,” explained a conservation architect. “It’s a pity the Act has been amended.”
 
 In Delhi, while the National Monuments Authority had cleared projects on a case to case basis, the lifting of the ban on construction could give rise to new projects or revive dormant ones. “The ramifications of the amendment are huge,” said Swapna Liddle, convenor, Intach Delhi Chapter. “Delhi Metro can construct a flyover in front of Qutub Minar and there can be no opposition.”
 
 Liddle said the issue did not involve substantial stretches of land. All that was needed was just 100 metres or so of land around monuments to protect them from vibrations, structural damage and marred aesthetics. 
 
 
