Nagpur: The second edition of the state-level camp of Kisanputra Andolan organized by Janmanch at MLA Hostel concluded on Sunday. Former deputy speaker of state legislative assembly, advocate Moreshwar Tembhurne was the chief guest during the event.  After intense discussions since two days, it was decided that the movement against anti-farmers laws of the government will knock the doors of Supreme Court. They have pledged to take their struggle to the next level to help the farmers and rule all the policies which suppress them.  All hopes of good times for farmers faded away after the death of Sharad Joshi, the famous politician who founded the Swatantra Bharat Paksh party and Shetkari Sanghatana. But the Andolan comes like a breath of fresh air and boosts the enthusiasm of activists working for the cause, said Tembhurne.  Amar Habib, leader of Kisanputra Andolan said, “The Essential Commodities Act, The Agricultural Land Ceiling Act and Land Acquisition Act have loopholes and until they are abolished, profitable farming is impossible. We will file a PIL for the same.”  The members have also decided to observe fast on March 19 every year in the memory of Sahebrao Karpe, a farmer, committed suicide along with his wife and four children after failing to pay the electricity bill 32 years ago. Habib prioritized ‘liberty’ over ‘protection’ for farmers. He explained, “After sowing a seed, if you obstruct its growth at the ground level and don’t allow it to bloom, there is no point of saving equipment to protect the plant. This aptly reflects the state of farmers in our country where formulation of different policies for them won’t be efficient enough to solve the problems.” While speaking TOI, President Sharad Patil stressed on the demand for levying income tax for agriculture. Supporting the statement, he said, “Farmers are solely dependent on agriculture for their daily bread and very few are able to make a profit exceeding Rs 2.5 lakh per annum. The no income tax policy is basically formulated to cater the big shots involved in corruption.” This was the first ever activity of Janmanch which involved participation of members outside Vidarbha. The third edition of the camp will be held on March 3 and 4 in Pune. 