KOCHI: Despite Kochi being the busiest city in the state, pedestrian still must undergo harrowing experiences while trying towalk around the congested arterial roads. With no well-laid footpaths and effectively planned pedestrian crossings and signals, those opting to walk through city roads risk their lives.

 The road owners, including Kochi corporation, public works department (PWD) and   (GCDA) blame each other for inadequate development of roads and allied infrastructure.
 
 As   authorities began the work of the Metro system all other agencies washed of their hands and thereby fixing the responsibility on Kochi Metro Rail Ltd( ).
 
 “The Metro agency has undertaken such works at some places along the Metro route. But, neither corporation nor PWD can excuse themselves from planning, designing and effectively developing pedestrian friendly road infrastructure,” said an engineer with the corporation.
 
 A walkability study carried out in 2017 revealed that 60% of pedestrians in Kochi are afraid to cross busy roads. Corporation on ‘safety of pedestrians in the city and development of basic facilities’ was carried out at 10 major junctions.
 
 Officials point out that at many places the slabs covering drains are broken, and it is dangerous to walk above these. The zebra lines are not marked at appropriate location on the roads. They said that often these lines are marked where vehicles queue up to take U-turns.
 
 “Pedestrians are forced to wait for long time to get a space to cross the road at such points. Vehicles hardly slow down, and if police are not posted at these locations motorists generally ignore them,” said an official.
 
 Meanwhile, a senior official with the   (MVD) pointed out the need to construct refugee islands and pelican signals on the middle of closed cross roads. “Refugee islands provide a halting space for pedestrians, and ensure that they cross only at the designate areas on the road. At pelican signals pedestrians can push a button, which then flashes a red sign to the vehicles at an appropriate time. This will help them to cross the road safely,” he said.
 
 It is pointed out that painting 3D paintings on zebra lines will help to grab attention of bikers and drivers. It will make them aware of the need to stop before crossings.
 
 “Unless the state government takes an initiative it will not be possible to introduce innovative ideas. There should be proper co-ordination between various road agencies and police for implementing these initiatives,” he added.
 
