GURUGRAM: City   won big at the International Shooting Sports Federation’s Junior World Cup in Sydney, Australia. 

 Twenty two-year-old Mandeep won a bronze medal in the 25m rapid fire pistol event. 
 
 Mandeep, a student of   in Manesar, took up shooting just three years back. At the All India University Games, 2017, he bagged an individual gold in the 25m standard pistol competition and team gold in the 25m standard and rapid fire pistol event. “Mandeep is a focused shooter. He is someone who doesn’t miss a single training session. He sometimes asks for the keys to the shooting range even on days we are closed,” his coach Parvinder Singh said. 
 
 “I put in 5-6 hours practice daily,” said Mandeep, adding, “As a kid, I tried playing many sports — football, cricket, kabaddi, basketball. But it was when I got to shooting that I realised it was the sport that really attracted me.”
 
 Meanwhile, Hisar’s Manu Bhaker and her partner Anmol Jain also won, securing India’s seventh gold medal in the mixed 10m air pistol event. Manu and Anmol set a new junior qualification world record (10m air pistol mixed event) with 770 points.
 
 Manu has also bagged gold medals in Sydney in the 10m air pistol individual and team events. She won the mixed 10m air pistol event with her partner Anmol Jain. Manu had also won gold in the 10m shooting event at the recently concluded   Games. Asked if she felt any pressure representing her country at an international competition, she said, “Why would I feel any pressure? I am a sportsperson. I know how to handle pressure. In fact, the first thing our coaches teach us when we go to an international event, is how to handle pressure,” said Manu. 
 
 She went on to say that this time around, expectations were high. “I’m happy I was able to live up to everyone’s dreams. I focused on one shot at a time and that’s it,” she added. “Manu is a very focused sportsperson. She knows what she is doing. She is very determined on the shooting range,” said Naresh Kumar, Manu’s coach. 
 
 Manu’s father Ramkishan Bhaker, a chief engineer in the merchant navy, said he was nervous after his daughter won two gold medals in the 10m category at the World Cup in Mexico. 
 
 “Manu is only 16 years old. Before her win in Mexico, there was no pressure on her, but since she won gold there, the bar was raised. We were worried how she would deal with all that, but she has handled the fame and pressure well.” 
 
 
