BENGALURU: Actor   has become politically vocal and a firm critic of right-wing extremism after the death of journalist-activist friend Gauri Lankesh. Despite being trolled and slammed, he continues to be outspoken in his criticism of   leaders, including  , Amit Shah and Yogi Adityanath. Rai, who is busy directing his movie in Goa, shared his views with TOI.

 
 
 
 The realization to be politically conscious has dawned on me now. As an artiste, I’ve always responded to environmental issues and now I’m trying to widen it. Recent political developments and the killing of Gauri Lankesh have forced me to act against the design of silencing narratives. 
 
 
 
 
 My films are releasing across the country in different languages every two weeks. I’ve 12 big projects on the sets. What astounds me is that the same people did not question my joblessness when I was adopting a village, working for society or going around in the forests of Karnataka, trying to connect with people at the grass root level and dealing with their issues.
 
 
 
 
 My statement should be understood in context. Not just an actor, even an engineer, doctor or any other professional can become a politician. But, politics in itself is not a profession. I was only advising the voter not to vote as a fan, but as a citizen. For MGR, NTR and Jayalalithaa, the equations were different. Now we need to see if the actors stand for the change we need. Their future depends on their manifestos and how voters accept them.
 
 
 
 
 That I’ve become politically vocal does not mean I want to join politics. I have no inclination to enter politics, as of now. If I’m forced by the situation in future, I’ll decide. People who have no answers to my questions are branding me a left-wing sympathizer, Congressman or anti-Hindu, but I’m none.
 
 
 
 
 His apology for these comments is a sundara sullu (beautiful lie). Every statement that he has made after becoming minister is on communal politics, which society should disapprove of. He talks about reviewing the Constitution but he’s not even aware that changes should be towards the Preamble.
 
 
 
 
 The BJP said even 149 is not something to rejoice about, but they ended up with 99. The numbers have given enough indication of growing rural disenchantment with the BJP, across the country. People are looking for inward growth, especially on issues of farmers, unemployment and rural economy.
 
 
 
 
 We know how the CBI has been functioning in the recent past. The state police should be allowed to do their job without politicizing it.
 
 
 
 The BJP is not interested in only Congress-mukt Bharat, but also secularist-mukt Bharat, minority-mukt Bharat, Dalit-mukt Bharat, harmony-mukt Bharat and quizzical-voter-mukt Bharat.
 
 
