PUNE/MUMBAI: The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education will constitute a committee to inquire if there was similarity between a science I paper published in a newspaper over two months ago and the one SSC students appeared for on March 14. 

 Shakuntala Kale, chairman of the board, said the committee will be set up once the original print of the newspaper reaches them. “We have already asked the newspaper to send us an original print of that day’s paper. We need to first establish that the WhatsApp messages informing us about the similarity) are true or not. Then we will inquire into what could have happened that resulted in the same question paper being used, if that is the case.”
 
 On January 19, Tarun Bharat’s SSC Mitra carried a model question paper for science I. The questions were almost identical to those in the exam paper that students took two months later. The order of the questions too was the same. Only a few questions had a difference in the numerical values.
 
 The Kolhapur-based teacher who had set the model question paper for Tarun Bharat said it was a mere coincidence. “I create almost 20 model question paper sets each year to help students. Most of these are based on the past years’ question papers. In the past too, there has been a lot of similarity,” said the teacher, who is also a chief moderator with the board. 
 
 Denying any possibility of re-examination, Kale said if found guilty of misconduct, the teachers or whoever is found responsible from the education department will be punished as per state board bye-laws. “The question papers are set throughout the year. Every division is given an undisclosed number of subjects for which they prepare an undisclosed number of question papers. Now, these papers themselves are set by a group of teachers, which are then checked by moderators to make sure that they are up to the mark and follow the pattern prescribed by the board. They are then sealed and sent to us. The entire process is extremely confidential,” reiterated Kale.
 
 Another board official said, “If this is found true, there are many possibilities of how it could have happened. May be the paper-setter himself copied it from somewhere and the teacher who gave it to the newspaper as a sample of model paper too copied it from there. The teachers who set the paper are in the know that no matter when they set the question paper, whether it is used by the board or not, it is a confidential paper and by no means can be re-produced in any way.”
 
 However, Kale refused to ban teachers from giving newspapers model question papers. “There is no law which bars teachers from talking to newspapers. We can only work within a limited framework of rules. The teachers who set the question paper already know that they can’t reveal it under any circumstances,” added Kale. tnn
 
 
