Octogenarian farmer Mehboobkhan   from   was given his loan waiver certificate at the collector's office in October last year, but he has yet to receive the relief amount. Till February 5, the accounts of only 31 lakh farmers had been credited with Rs12,362 crore. That's just 53% of the Rs 23,362 crore sanctioned for the scheme till then. 

 The stringent eligibility criteria to identify beneficiaries of the waiver led to complaints about exclusion. The state initially wanted online applications with Aadhar details but later dropped both requirements amid protests from farmer groups. It sought to match farmer applications with   details but complained that data supplied by banks was ridden with errors. The lengthy verification process resulted in only 47 lakh accounts being declared eligible till February 5. Of these, 8 lakh were being re-verified.
 
 Meanwhile, Pathan's circumstances have only worsened since the waiver was declared. Already saddled with a loan of Rs1 lakh, he lost most of his cotton crop to the pink bollworm pest which swept Marathwada and Vidarbha. His wife Lakhatbi has sold two gold bangles to raise Rs 20,000. She now works as a farm hand for Rs 200 a day.
 
 When contacted, Beed DCCB chairman   admitted the waiver amount had not been credited to Pathan. "There seems to have been a software or technical error and this farmer's name was entered into the 'one time settlement' category instead of the loan waiver category," said Sarda. "He should go before the taluka committee set up by the government to resolve this issue," he added.
 
 The loan waiver has several categories. Those with loans of less than Rs 1.5 lakh are awarded a waiver if they prove eligible according to government norms. Those with loans of above Rs 1.5 lakh are considered for the one-time-settlement category. This means if they settle the rest of their loan by March 31, the government will put in Rs 1.5 lakh.
 
 Beed district collector M D Singh said he would look into the case. 
 
  
  
 
