NEW DELHI: Taking   to people in the   has become a reality. On Wednesday, chief minister   will   a   digital movie theatre at Janpath where people could watch for free, the 2016 award-winning movie,  . 

 The   can be dismantled, carried in a truck to a desired location, and assembled again. Around 150 people can sit inside the air-conditioned, fire-proof and weather-proof theatre to enjoy the latest Bollywood flicks in digital quality. Tickets could be bought easily too. 
 
 The concept of these theatres is by filmmaker Satish Kaushik, who said he watched Bahubali 2 in a mobile theatre and was amazed by the picture and sound quality. Around 35 such theatres are ready, and it’s hoped about 150 such ready to assemble theatres would take the digital experience to different parts of the country where people are deprived of the multiplex experience. “The trial runs are going on for sometime. I will take this concept to Haryana and other states in north India,” said Kaushik. 
 
 The project is the brainchild of entrepreneur Sushil Chaudhary, who is the founder of Picture Time, a company that runs these mobile theatres. Chaudhary wants to provide a cheaper movie experience to people in the remotest parts of the country. Tickets will be priced at Rs 100. 
 
 “This is a revolutionary concept and can fulfil the aspirations of people in small towns. There is a dearth of movie theatres in the country as compared to USA and China. According to an estimate, there are around 2,200 multiplexes in India for a population of around 1.3 billion people, which is far below the density in developed countries. The target group of this theatre is people who live in places were cinemas fail to reach,” said Kaushik.
 
 All the movies released in India would also be screened in these theatres. “This facility will also give space to many movies which are produced but fail to get theatrical releases,” Kaushik said.
 
 The truck has everything and only a 100ftX100ft space is required to set up the theatre. In just two-and-a-half hours, the inflatable theatre is ready with a comfortable sitting arrangement. All the required permissions from the civic officials, police and fire department are taken before setting up the theatre.
 
 “In small towns, film festivals can also be organised by erecting four such mobile theatres. These will also be taken to outer Delhi,” said Kaushik.
 
 Kaushik and Chaudhary had a meeting with Kejriwal recently where they explained the facility to the CM who appreciated the idea and agreed to inaugurate it. The facility was put on display at the last Goa film festival also.
 
 
