Pune: A special court on Wednesday ordered the remand of Amit and Vivek Bharadwaj in judicial custody till May 2 in the   fraud worth several crores of rupees being investigated by the Pune police’s cyber crime cell. 

 Both brothers, founders of Gain Bitcoin company, are prime suspects in the case wherein 8,000 investors have alleged to have been duped of crores of rupees between June 2017 and January 2018 over attractive returns on investment in cryptocurrencies. 
 
 So far, police have arrested five suspects and are searching for eight more, including relatives of the Bharadwaj brothers, who were arrested in New Delhi on April 5 and brought to Pune the same day. The court had ordered their police custody remand till April 18. 
 
 In a report submitted to special judge J T Utpat on Wednesday, cyber crime cell inspector Manisha Zende said that 19 witnesses have so far recorded their statements alleging cheating collectively worth more than Rs 1.23 crore.
 
 The police probe is focussed on establishing the money trail as the suspects have diverted money collected from the investors for other purposes like acquiring immovable properties abroad and diverting funds to other ventures. 
 
 The report stated that a scrutiny of two vallet addresses on Gain Bitcoin’s website revealed that the suspects received 5,372 bitcoin (cryptocurrency) valued approximately at Rs 268 crore but only 3.31 of these bitcoins are shown as balance. Investigations are on to trace the sources where the remaining bitcoins were transferred. 
 
 The suspects acquired seven office spaces of totally 10,000 sq ft area on the 31st floor of Jumeirah Lake Towers in Dubai for Rs 17 crore in January-February this year and a 58th floor flat in Marine Princess Tower, in Dubai worth Rs 2.12 crore in October-November 2017, the report stated.
 
 They also acquired four offices at Business Bay in Tamani Towers in Dubai for Rs 3.40 crore and a flat in Burj Khalifa for Rs 5.10 crore, the report added. 
 
 The report stated that the suspects divested funds to business ventures in Singapore, Hong Kong, Estonia, Dubai and the United States of America. All these investments are under investigation. Payments worth crores of rupees made by the suspects are also being probed, the report added. 
 
 The cyber cell stated that the suspects have so far extended little cooperation in revealing information about the money trail and that services of forensic and cyber experts were being hired for the probe.
 
 Many victims from the city attended a seminar at a hotel in Pune where they were guided on how to get loans from financial for the investment. 
 
 
