HYDERABAD: Hundreds of angry students of   protested in front of the college on Monday against a fee hike that will see them shelling out Rs 1.60 lakh annually instead of Rs 97,000. They urged the management to roll back the hike.

 “I took admission here as the fee was comparatively lower as opposed to other top engineering colleges. Recently, the management asked us to pay Rs 1.60 lakh citing an interim order passed by the HC. Authorities said that those who fail to pay the fee will not be allowed to write their exam and their attendance will be affected,” said Srija G, a student, calling the move ‘unfair’.
 
 
 In 2016, the   (TAFRC) had fixed an annual fee of Rs 97,000.   of Engineering was among the three colleges that moved Hyderabad High Court against the fee structure fixed by the TAFRC. Subsequently, an interim order was issued by the court allowing the college to collect fee of Rs 1.60 lakh.
 
 
 With the final exams scheduled to begin from April-end, parents alleged students are not being allowed to appear for the exam until they pay the balance Rs 63,000. “While few students have paid Rs 1.60 lakh, there are many others who cannot afford the amount. We have impleaded in the case which is yet to be heard in the court. It is unfair to not allow students to write the exam on the pretext of fee, until the final order of the court is passed,” said  , president of Vasavi   Parents’ Association.
 
 
 Several students boycotted classes. Sloganeering against the management continued from 11.30am to 3.30pm. Few students even took to social media as they sought help from IT minister K Taraka Rama Rao. “@KTRTRS Hello sir, I am a student of Vasavi College of Engineering. Actually we had college fee of Rs 86k (sic) which was raised to Rs 1.6 lakh. Most of our college students can't afford this huge amount of fees. Please support us. #vasavifeehike,” tweeted  , a student.
 
 
 Following the protest, S  , principal of the college, said, “We agreed to the demands put forth by parents. There is no pressure on payment of fees. All students will be allowed to appear for examinations.”
 
