CHENNAI: Following its first surprise check at a police station in the state since 2011, on April 13, the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption ( ) registered a corruption case against   P K   under three sections of the IPC on Monday.

 A copy of the FIR has been sent to the city police commissioner, said police officials. “Departmental action will be initiated against   and he will be suspended,” a top cop said.
 
 The surprise check led by DVAC officials yielded Rs 5.08 lakh in cash. While Rs 2.5 lakh was stored in the form of Rs 2,000 and Rs 500 notes in three drawers in Basha’s office at the Thirumangalam police station, Rs 2.58 lakh was recovered from a contractor who had come to meet the cop. 
 
 DVAC officials said Basha collected bribes from petitioners and counter-petitioners for settling cases, adding that the details were noted down in a diary under the guise of donations made to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam.
 
 Vigilance officials led by deputy superintendent of police   nailed Basha following a tip that the ACP had received money from a contractor for settling a land dispute. 
 
 The DVAC team barged into his office around 10.30pm on Friday night after the contractor, identified as Selvam from  , arrived to meet Basha. 
 
 Subsequently, police personnel questioned Basha and Selvam separately to verify if their statements corroborated with each other. The inquiries went on till 5am on Saturday following which DVAC officials let off Basha after informing him that he would have to appear before investigation officers for further questioning.
 
 Police officials said Basha, who has a year to go for his retirement, had landed in trouble earlier when he was found to have delayed registering a case against a doctor from whose residence in Tiruvannamalai a 15-year-old girl from   had been rescued last year. 
 
 A woman had taken the girl to Tiruvannamalai under the pretext of getting her a job at a medical shop before the girl was sexually exploited by many people. 
 
 The case, handled by the Tirumangalam all-woman police, was monitored directly by Basha.
 
 
