GURUGRAM: A collective of concerned city   has written to the deputy commissioner appealing to the district administration to take steps to ensure that   are allowed to offer   peacefully and without threat of intimidation or violence from vigilante groups. 

 
 Calling itself the Gurugram Nagrik Ekta Manch, the residents are meeting the deputy commissioner with a letter signed by fellow Gurugram citizens. In the memorandum, the residents speak of local groups “attempting to create enmity where none exists”.
 
 This is, incidentally, the first Friday of the holy month of Ramzan, hence the trepidation. Especially after earlier this week a threat to disrupt open air   was issued, leading to growing apprehension amongst Gurugram’s Muslims about their safety and security.
 
 “We demand that all Muslims be guaranteed their right to pray without fear and as equals to all other citizens. Any regulation related to traffic inconvenience should be based on official orders and applicable to all and with discrimination to none,” the letter states.
 
 While the hope is that Ramzan passes off peacefully, filmmaker Rahul Roy, a member of the Nagrik Ekta Manch, says the tension generated in the past few weeks has been unnecessary. “I don’t think there’s any threat of violence tomorrow, so that urgency has abated,” he told TOI.
 
 “But there is tension. Even last Friday, a lot of people didn’t offer namaz, and a lot of people went to Mehrauli. “And this is the first Friday of Ramzan, so there will probably be many more people turning up.”
 
 The residents have demanded that, one, action be taken against vigilantes who take the law into their hands, and two, that the rights of Gurugram Muslims to equality before the law, and to practice their religion ‘without partisan regulations’, be protected.
 
 But Roy believes the intervention of village elders has had an effect. “More than the administration or anyone else, these people are not getting support at the village level. In fact, villagers are telling them to calm down. I think that’s what is making a huge difference, and that’s why they are backing off at the moment.”
 
 Any step the administration takes, the letter continues, “should be based on orders and circulars that are fair and applicable to all citizens irrespective of faith, belief and denomination.”
 
 Meanwhile, efforts are on to bring Gurugram's many communities together. As Roy said, “We’re trying to put together a civil society effort to counter the politics of hatred.” 
 
 
