NEW DELHI: On Sunday, a pall of gloom had descended on  : as many as 17 lives were lost in a factory blaze at a site that was, not long ago, used for making vermilion. After suffering huge losses in that business, locals say, the trader rented out the premises, to be used for making plastic granules and repacking crackers — a blatant violation of rules.

 Lakshmi Devi, a factory worker, said: “It’s not that this is the sole unit where firecrackers are made illegally. But who’s going to check?” Devi resides at Metro Vihar, a nearby locality from where most of the victims used to walk down for work.
 
 Bawana industrial area’s   is one full of violations of laws, unfulfilled promises and a mess created by multiplicity of agencies. Of the 16,000 industrial plots spread over 1,900 acres — carved out in 1996 as a special area for relocating industries from other parts of the capital — some 12,000 are functional. “Businesses here are struggling,” admitted Prakash Chand Jain, chairman of Bawana Chamber of Industries. “We pay charges on a monthly basis, but get zero services, or upkeep, in return. Inspections happen only when they (officials) wish to extort money,” he alleged. 
 
 Broken roads, non-functional street lights, choked sewage and bad air indicate that the ambitious plan to decongest the city has gone woefully wrong. Bawana was a small village surrounded by farmland when the Supreme Court in 1996 ordered that the city’s industrial units be moved to the peripheral areas. 
 
 “Bawana was one such location, but as it lacked facilities to support manufacturing, traders were hesitant about shifting here,” Jain said, adding that multiple agencies only made things worse. “There is DPCC for pollution, the industries department for safety regulations, MCD for licencing, Delhi Fire Service for fire regulations. We have been demanding single-window clearance for all projects, but our appeals have gone unheeded,” he said.
 
 Other traders agreed that there was no monitoring mechanism in place and that inspections, which were rare, were used to “extort”. Slums from several parts of the city were shifted to nearby areas like JJ Colony and Metro Vihar to provide working hands. The inhabitants, mostly labourers from Bihar, complain that they have no option, but to live in “inhuman” conditions. 
 
 At work, there are no safety equipment and the hours are long. “Labourers here get Rs 150-200 a day for a 10-hour shift, during which they are locked in these jail-like three-storeyed buildings. Without gloves or helmets, we handle these chemicals,” Sunil Rana from Mazdoor Morcha said. 
 
 In 2007, the urban development ministry’s “MPD 2021” permitted some industries to operate within city limits again, thereby allowing traders to stay on. The area has also seen a mushrooming of property dealers. 
 
 Municipal officials said original allottees had sold their plots and ownership rules were being violated right under the nose of DSIIDC. “All transactions are taking place illegally. We have no power to issue a licence if the applicant is not the original allottee with valid property papers,” an official said. 
 
 In the current case, too, while the original allottees were Subhash/Uma Mittal, the factory was being run by one Manoj Jain. DSIIDC officials, on the other hand, said that their job was limited to developing the area. Vacant malls, lack of a wholesale market or even a hospital tell their own tale, though.
 
 
