LUDHIANA: A week after Punjab chief minister Captain   issued orders to the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) and Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to give 50% waiver on retrospective charges to industrial consumers, city businessmen continued to get their power bills with retrospective charges levied from April till October 2017, that they termed as complete defiance of CM’s order.

 Consumers are liable to pay the retrospective charges along with the bills despite the orders that these are to be paid in interest-free 12 monthly instalments. Many of the bills have been issued after the recent orders by the state government.
 
 Sushil Jain, chief patron, Punjab Plastic Manufacturers and Traders Association (PMTA), who has been slapped Rs 36,237 as retro charges, said, “Retrospective charges are illegal in the first place. Why should we pay them when almost a year has passed? Was it our fault that PSERC announced the tariff late? It seems PSPCL hardly pays any heed to the government orders. Even after the chief minister announced that only 50% retrospective charges will be paid by industry, we are still being sent bills with 100% charges.”
 
 Narinder  , president,  , said, “Several other members have received power bills without any concession in retrospective charges. If we do not pay the entire amount on due date, we will be charged penalty by the department.”
 
 “This is really unfortunate that even chief minister’s orders are not taken seriously and this is happening even after PSPCL has acknowledged that the orders have been received,” Bhamra said.
 
 Several industrialists said this was sheer harassment to first pay the entire amount and then make rounds of office to seek refund of extra charges.
 
 PSPCL chief engineer (commercial) Arun Gupta said, “We are aware of the problem and all our offices have been instructed to remit only one third of the arrear instead of charging the entire amount levied on bills. Businessmen do not need to panic as the extra amount would be adjusted when the notification is received from PSERC.”
 
 
