KOZHIKODE:  's is the victory of a woman's single-handed fight against all odds, which should be a model for others to emulate, said  , the national president of the National Women's Front (NWF), who faced the charge of 'forcibly converting' the girl to Islam. 

 The news about the   verdict that restored Hadiya's marriage with Shefin Jahan reached Sainaba when she was attending the seminar 'Fascism is anti-women, let's fight it' organised by the NWF here to mark the International Day of Women.
 
 "It is Hadiya's own victory, we only supported her. She had shown the courage to stand upright and tell the Supreme Court what she wanted. It is a conclusion of a protracted struggle that lasted for two-years," Sainaba told the gathering.
 
 "Hadiay finally got the freedom she yearned for, but it is too early to celebrate. This is only an interim order, the final order is yet to come," she said.
 
 The NWF leader said the prime focus of the Sangh Parivar is women for they see them as a soft target. "Hadiya could resist the onslaught with her will power and she will be an inspiration for the generation to come," Sainaba said.
 
 Fatima Muzaffar, member of the  , who inaugurated the seminar, said the Sangh Parivar denigrated the image of the country by its mindless violence on the minorities, dalits and the backward classes. A 54-year-old man was killed in Rajasthan in the name of 'Love Jihad', she said. 
 
 
 
 
 KOTTAYAM: Ashokan KM, father of Hadiya, is determined to go ahead with the legal battle. “The judgment has only set aside the high court order that annulled the marriage. It has not put an end to the investigation by National Investigation Agency (NIA) as it’s possible that ShafIn Jahan is a terrorist. It is traumatising to marry off one’s daughter to a terrorist. That pain cannot be explained,” said Ashokan.
 
 Ashokan, who is at his house at T V Puram near Vaikom, added that he has not heard from Hadiya for a few days now.
 
 “When the high court had ruled to send Hadiya with me, they snatched her away through this alliance with Jahan. This itself proves that it is an ‘adjustment marriage’,” said Ashokan, who refused to react further. TNN
 
 
