MADURAI: The 20-year-old dream of Karisavayal villagers in Thanjavur district to upgrade their high school into a higher secondary school will soon become a reality, following an order of the Madurai bench of the Madras high court directing the school education department director to act on it.

 A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and R Hemalatha heard a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the Higher Secondary School up-gradation Committee, government high school, Karisavayal village in Pattukkottai taluk, represented by its president  . It said, “This court, taking into consideration the facts and circumstances and without going into the merits of the claim projected by the petitioner, directs the school education director to act on the proposal / recommendation of the chief educational officer, Thanjavur district, dated May 18, last year regarding the upgradation of the school as the government higher secondary school on merits and in accordance with law.”
 
 The director should do this exercise within eight weeks from receipt of a copy of this order and communicate the decision taken to the petitioner, the court said. 
 
 During arguments, the petitioner’s counsel pointed out that 700 students are studying in the said institution and there is no other higher secondary school.
 
 There is only one higher secondary school available in Pallathur village, which is 8km away from Karisavayal village and one government boys higher secondary school and one girls higher secondary school situated at   town, which is 17km away. 
 
 Moreover, one R  , temple trustee of Karisavayal village has donated three acres 45 cents on December 31, 1999 to the said school and a patta was also issued in the name of the chief educational officer. On account of the land and other facilities available, the petitioner submitted a representation for upgradation of the school. Necessary proposal has also been forwarded to the education director from the district officials. 
 
 Besides, the president of   addressed a representation to the director and the local body has also passed a resolution to that effect on March 9, 2015. Despite all efforts have been taken villagers, the director is yet to pass orders, the counsel said.
 
 
