BENGALURU: Runs are coming in a slow trickle for   — 30 runs (10, 4; 0, 16) to be precise in the two Test matches he played in South Africa. The India opener is disappointed with his performance but is not losing sleep over it.

 
 "I’ve always looked at the positive side. When you are playing sport you know you will have more bad days than good days. You need to take things in your stride and try to learn something new and improve every day,” he said.
 
 The 25-year-old is now gearing up for the three-match T20I series starting in Johannesburg on February 18. After being dropped from the ODI squad, the Karnataka batsman returned home to chisel his game in the Vijay Hazare (Group A) matches, but hasn’t spent too much time in the middle with scores of 3 & 22 in the last two outings.
 
 “I would have liked to spend more time in the middle. I did get a decent hit in the second match. I will play another match on Sunday and then train for a couple of days before I leave,” he said.
 
 Commenting on his current form, Rahul described it as a learning curve. “You learn as you play. Ups and downs are part of your career. This is not exactly a down. I am playing well but not able to convert. I am not able to spend more time in the middle. I will find the answer soon. Maybe it takes just one good innings to get the conversion rate better. It doesn’t have to be a 150 but even a 50 can help me. I’ve been working hard on my fitness and game.”
 
 About the challenges on South African surfaces, Rahul pointed out, “South Africa was a whole new challenge. We expected pace and bounce. I didn’t think there would be so much seam movement. The seam movement with pace and bounce was new. It’s a deadly combination and you don’t want to be an opener when all these things are happening. But it was good learning experience. I know what I need to tweak in my game now.”
 
 On the T20 series, Rahul, who leaves for South Africa on Thursday, said, “I was there for a month and I didn’t do too much in the Test series, so I’m looking forward to going there and getting some runs.”
 
 
