Model, actor, beauty queen and a trained Bharatanatyam and Odissi dancer,   wears many hats with elan. The Miss Eco International 2016 is now all set to foray into Telugu cinema with the 
upcoming thriller Sketch.“I’m thrilled to be part of this   directorial. The film is a thriller based on the investigation of a murder mystery. It is basically a fight between intelligent criminals and a sincere cop.   is composing music for the film,” says the 22-year-old. Talking about her role in the film, Sophiya shares, “I play a foreigner.” Really? “Yes. I will look like a firang girl in the flick, trust me. I play a social activist, who is from California. In the film, my dad is American so I look like one, but I am more like an Indian girl, because my mom is from India. The film has a mysterious plot,” she adds.
 Sophiya seems to have had a blast working in her very first Telugu film, and looks like we’re going to see a lot more of her. “It was so much fun working with this team. We were a bunch of crazy, naughty people. I’ll be doing more South Indian films and you can expect me in lots of Tollywood films in the coming year. I already have five Telugu films lined up. We’ll announce them soon,” says the actress, who has a bunch of Hindi films as well. “I’m doing three films in Bollywood with Mahesh Bhatt that will be announced soon,” she informs.
 Today, she’s living the life she’s always dreamt of, but it’s all thanks to her Miss India days, says the Delhi girl who was crowned Miss India Elite 2015 winner. “Life totally changed after that. I would say the contest made me a better human being; a better woman. Every woman knows how to sit, talk and present herself, but this contest polished my personality and made me a better person. It helped me gain self-confidence, body confidence and camera confidence. But my journey ahead on the international stage was very tough. 
 I struggled a lot. I had to compete with models from 65 different countries — they were all tough competitors as each girl wanted to give her 100 per cent and make her country proud,” says Sophiya, who counts   as her role model. 
 “Priyanka Chopra is a true inspiration for not just women but men as well. She is an international star now, but how she reached this position is awe-inspiring. without any grooming partner, skin experts, vocabulary experts and the like, that’s common today, she made it all on her own, with just confidence and family support, despite not being from a film background. People like her motivate us to push ourselves and remind us that nothing is impossible.”
 Sophiya has had her share of struggles too. “Since childhood, it was my dream to be Miss India. I was fascinated by Sushmita Sen, Aishwarya Rai, Priyanka Chopra... But at the beginning of my career, I faced so many rejections because models have to be over 5’8” or 5’9” tall. I was stuck at just 5’7” — just for falling short by an inch, I faced rejections many times,” she says.
 Other than modelling and acting, dance is what keeps Sophiya going. “I’m a trained Bharatanatyam and Odissi dancer. Though dancing is in my blood, these are dance forms that I learned. Apart from dancing, I love reading history, visiting historical places, travelling and sports. In fact, when I got to know that I have to represent our country in Egypt for Miss Eco International, I was so excited because I really wanted to visit that place,” she shares, laughing.
 But what she’s most passionate about is animals, stray dogs in particular. “I love animals. I really wanted to open an NGO for animals. Whenever I see stray dogs, I feed them, play with them and I love spending time with them. There are so many NGOs for humans, but we have only very few NGOs for animals. they don’t speak, but they do have emotions.”
 Her work commitments have been bringing her to Hyderabad quite often. Ask her what she loves about the city, and pat comes the reply — “Hyderabadi Biryani of course! it’s so yummy. I love chicken and so obviously I loved Hyderabadi chicken biryani. I really liked the flavour of it. I’d been to Hyderabad in September last year to shoot for a short film and that’s the first time I tasted the biryani. It was love at first bite.” 
 
