INDORE: Barely a year after six farmers died allegedly in police firing at   during a violent protest, the agriculturists are again on a warpath with the government declaring a state-wide strike during a 10-day ' ' from June 1. 

 Rashtriya   on Saturday gave a call for strike by farmers and put forth a 25-point demand to the state government, including action against policemen responsible for the death of farmers during the protest at   on June 6, 2017.
 
 Mahasangh president   alias   told reporters here on Saturday that during the 'Gaon Bandh', farmers will not come to the city. 
 
 Kakkaji said the farmers would sell milk, vegetables and other produces only in the village markets. The buyers can go to the village and purchase the commodities.
 
 "We will raise our demands in a non-violent manner. But government should not resort to excesses to instigate the protesters," he said.
 
 "Farmers and labourers of the state have been struggling from last one year, but the government is not paying heed towards their demands. It's high time that we decided to come to the field to protest against the 'anti-farmer' policies" Kakkaji said.
 
 "We have trained and requested the farmers through the organisations supporting us to maintain peace during the protest. The police were however forcing them not to participate in the agitation" Sharma said.
 
 He also took a dig on the 'Bhavantar Bhugtan Yojana', stating that instead of benefitting the farmers, the scheme has increased corruption.
 
 "The single-bench commission led by the former high court justice JK Jain, whose brother is Chhindwara district collector, prepared the report at the CM's house. The government does not want to publish the report till the election" Sharma alleged.
 
 He added that after Mandsaur police firing case, two local farmers were beaten to death by police. The association demanded that a case should be registered against the guilty officials.
 
 Their other demands included job to one of the kins of the deceased farmers killed in Mandsaur firing and the injured farmers under the quota meant for differently-abed people, loan waiver to the farmers and labourers, prepare a law to provide a 'guaranteed' income to the farmers.
 
 
