GAYA: Much to the resentment of local population, the new   plan for Bodh   came into effect on Tuesday. The plan was earlier scheduled to be implemented from February 15. 

 Giving details of the new plan, SSP   said all kinds of vehicles will be stopped at node one and node two located about 1 km to the west and north of the shrine respectively. From the two nodes, people will either have to walk or take e- rickshaws. The movement of   will be also regulated.
 
 Besides, only 150 e- rickshaws would be allowed to move in the restricted zone. There are 348 registered e- rickshaws in   and permits would be issued to 150 of them on a rotational basis each day. Children’s Park has been notified as the terminal point for e- rickshaws coming from node one and node two.
 
 Also, conditional passes for limited period entry would be issued to monasteries and hotels located in the restricted zone. Alternative routes are also being planned for locals, residents as well as businessmen. 
 
 Though two- wheelers were also initially proposed to be prohibited around the shrine area but it was decided on Tuesday to allow them but keep their parking prohibited in the vicinity. The regulations have been enforced keeping the aspects of safety and pollution in view. The area around Mahabodhi Mahavihara was recently notified as ‘no honking zone’, but it could not be effectively implemented. “Officers deployed at nodes one and two have been made accountable for effective implementation of the new traffic plan. It would be regularly monitored and violations will not be tolerated,” said Malik. 
 
 Strongly criticising the new traffic regulations, Bodh Gaya Nagrik Manch president Suresh Singh said the new regulation will have an adverse impact on all kinds of business activities including tourism, which is the back bone of the economy here. 
 
 “Elderly tourists will be strongly discouraged by the new arrangement. Local customers too would now be forced to walk as only few e-rickshaws have been allowed to ply,” said Singh.
 
 The SSP, however, said that all efforts would be made to minimise the inconvenience of the stake holders. “The plan had become inevitable in view of the shrine’s security,” Malik said.
 
 
