LUCKNOW: In a scathing attack on AIMPLB, Shia Waqf Board chief Waseem Rizvi on Wednesday accused the Board of bias in taking action against   Salman Nadwi. Rizvi questioned why the Board was silent when Nadwi had congratulated IS chief Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi but sacked him when the cleric gave a suggestion for peaceful settlement of Ayodhya dispute. 

 Raising the issue in a letter addressed to PM, Rizvi has demanded action against the All India Muslim Personal Law Board. “Maulana Nadwi had sent a letter to IS chief Baghdadi congratulating him on his caliphate. No action was taken by AIMPLB back then, but now when he is talking of a peaceful settlement in the Ayodhya dispute, he has been sacked,” said Rizvi. 
 
 “This proves AIMPLB is in the grasp of extremists who are working on the directions of Pakistan and Saudi Arabia,” waqf board chief added. The All India Muslim Personal Law Board had sacked Nadwi on Sunday following his suggestion that Ram temple be built at the disputed site while a mosque can be built at another site. 
 
 The cleric had given the proposal after meeting Art of Living founder Sri Sri Ravi Shankar in Bengaluru for an out-of court settlement of Ayodhya dispute. Refuting Rizvi’s charges, AIMPLB spokesperson Maulana Khalid Saifullah Rahmani said, “The letter (to Baghdadi) being referred to was sent by Maulana in his individual capacity and the Board was not connected with it. The Board has never encouraged or supported such extremists’ organisations.” 
 
 He added, “But the Board is connected to the Ayodhya case and is fighting in court for the (construction of) mosque. And so the action was taken against Nadwi.” In his letter to PM  , Shia waqf board chief called AIMPLB a branch of terror organisations. Salman Nadwi recently broke down before his students at Darul Uloom Nadwatul Ulama, the Lucknow-based seminary where he is dean of faculty. 
 
 A video in which Nadwi is seen talking to his students in a class and suddenly starts sobbing and calls out to the almighty, has gone viral on social media. “Main Allah se mohabbat ki baat kar raha hun. Main Allah ki baat kar raha hun (I am talking about loving Allah. I am just talking about Allah),” he is seen telling students in a choked voice. Raising his hand to the forehead, the cleric continues: “Main deen ki hifazat chahta hoon. Jo log mujhpe zyaddti kar rahe hain, Khuda unse niptega (I am talking about saving the religion. God will deal with those who are oppressing me).”
