KOCHI/IDUKKI: In a dramatic turn of events, on Thursday Cardinal  , the head of the  , was prevented by some members of the laity from attending a   meeting which was supposed to discuss the final report by an inquiry committee probing controversial land deals involving church property. Following the meeting, the plan was to send the report to the Pope, a move with potentially dangerous consequences for  , who has been implicated in the report.

 There are conflicting versions on Thursday’s incident, with the disruptors demanding that the laity too be heard on the matter, while the rival camp claimed that the ‘blocking’ incident was actually scripted by the cardinal’s supporters.
 
 According to a letter send by Cardinal Alencherry to the Presbyteral Council, “some members of the laity stopped me from attending the meeting. So, I am forced to postpone the meeting.” 
 
 
 
 The letter by Cardinal Alencherry said: “They informed me that a big crowd is waiting outside. To avoid tension, the Presbyteral Council meeting can be conducted in a calm atmosphere later”.
 
 But Dr Kuriakose Mundadan, secretary, Presbyteral Council, had a different view. “A group of laity led by V V Augustin, Sabu Jose and Kennedy Karimbukalayil blocked the cardinal from attending the meeting. They argued that the issue should be first discussed at the pastoral council which is a joint forum of laity and priests. But the issue has already been discussed by the consultative council and finance commission of the Church. There is no need to discuss the issue at pastoral council,” he said. “The Permanent Synod of the Church would be held next week. The cardinal may convene the meeting of Presbyteral Council after the synod meeting,” Mundadan added.
 
 V V Augustin, former BJP leader who had been a member of National Minority Commission, said that “nobody blocked the cardinal from attending the meeting. We just requested the cardinal that the matter should be first discussed at the pastoral council which is a joint forum of laity and priests. Then, the cardinal held a meeting with two bishops and decided to postpone the meeting”. Augustin is a former member of the pastoral council while Sabu Jose is part of the present council.
 
 Karimbukalayil is part of the BJP-led NDA. According to him, the plan to send a letter to the Pope is part of a plan to unseat the cardinal. “A section of priests have been trying to trap Cardinal Alencherry. All such moves with ulterior motives will end soon and Alencherry will continue as cardinal,” he said.
 
 "It was a planned screenplay and thirdrate game by the cardinal and his followers to sabotage the Presbyteral Council. The inquiry commission's final report has found serious lapses on the part of the cardinal in the land issue," a senior priest belonging to Ernakulam-Angamaly arch diocese told TOI, adding that an emergency meeting of priests has decided that if the cardinal failed to call a meeting of the Presbyterian Council within one week, they will go ahead and send the complaint and inquiry report to the Pope.
 
 Sources said the final report by the sixmember commission, comprising three priests, a lawyer, a tahsildar and a charted accountant, pointed out serious malpractices in the land deal. "The archdiocese has incurred a loss of more than Rs 34 crore in the land deal and the cardinal and two priests are responsible for the loss. The cardinal introduced the land broker to the archdiocese and the land sale issue was not discussed in any fora of the church," said the inquiry commission’s final report.
 
 The controversial land deal in Ernakulam-Angamaly arch diocese took place in 2016. The Church had appointed a committee led by the cardinal and with two priests to sell five plots of land owned by the Church situated in and around Kochi city to repay a huge bank loan.
 
 
