NEW DELHI: Chief minister   on Thursday attacked lieutenant governor Anil Baijal after the surfacing of a purported letter from the LG’s office to the Delhi Police commissioner. The letter seeks status reports with details of the  , trial, lapses if any, and court orders with respect to six cases involving six   within a week.

 
 AAP’s chief spokesperson for Delhi, Saurabh Bharadwaj, said at a press conference that these six cases involved Kejriwal,  , transport minister Kailash Gahlot and MLAs Amanatullah Khan, Naresh Balyan and Manoj Kumar. All of them have been acquitted by different courts. The cases were related to various offences, ranging from violation of the electoral code of conduct to obstructing public officials from discharging their duties.
 
 In the letter, released by AAP to the media, the LG’s office has also specifically asked the police to look into the matter concerning the recent discharging of Amanatullah Khan in an alleged case of kidnapping and obstructing public officials from rescuing child labourers due to the court finding the probe lacklustre. The letter asks the police to submit a report, along with a copy of the court order, on the investigation and trial — especially with reference to the observations of the trial court — which said the chargesheet was choreographed.
 
 Despite repeated calls and messages, the LG’s office didn’t respond to the allegations.
 
 While AAP accused the LG of misusing Delhi Police instead of concentrating on the safety and security of residents, especially women, Kejriwal took to Twitter to say that frivolous cases were filed against AAP MLAs and functionaries. “Did lieutenant governor ask for a similar report in rape cases and cases of crime against women? No. LG and Centre’s BJP government owe an answer to people of Delhi as to why the police was forced to file these frivolous cases against AAP leaders and why was police’s time wasted,” he tweeted.
 
 “The BJP’s LG has been exposed on misusing police to harass elected representatives. The LG is working against the people by asking the police commissioner how AAP members are out of jail. This is shameful,” said Bharadwaj, claiming that on the “orders of the BJP, the police has tried its level best to prepare wrong chargesheets against the MLAs in order to defame and humiliate them.” He added: “But in courts of law, truth and justice have prevailed and false cases against elected representatives of Delhi are falling flat, one by one.”
 
 Meanwhile, AAP functionary Atishi Marlena used the recent comments of the Delhi HC that if the installations of CCTV cameras had been done in time, the city would have seen fewer crimes to attack the LG. “The LG has formed a committee to delay the CCTV project,” she alleged. Claiming that the LG had lied about 2 lakh CCTV cameras being installed in Delhi, Marlena urged him to make their locations public. 
 
