GAYA: Two blasts in less than five years have rocked Bodh Gaya. The first one, a serial  , took place on July 7, 2013. This time it was on Friday. Though there are some similarities between the two blasts, there are several dissimilarities as well.

 Similarities first. Both the incidents took place near the Kalchakra Maidan, close to Tibetan monastery, only a few metres to the north of spiritual leader Dalai Lama's suite. Both the blasts were of low intensity, designed more to cause panic than inflict collateral damage.
 
 The other similarity is that like 2013, no organisation has taken responsibility for the incident. Those familiar with the modus operandi of the subversive/terrorist organisations say that such organisations are quick in taking responsibility and in some cases, even organisations actually not involved tend to take credit to get international attention. 
 
 Both the incidents caught the security agencies off guard. On Friday the place was already on high alert with around 3,000 cops deployed in the small township.
 
 A few days back, no less than 13 police personnel were suspended and an equal number of magistrates issued show- cause notices for dereliction of duty. In retrospect, these did not have the desired effect as laxity on the part of police is too apparent.
 
 That someone could plant at least three heavy IEDs in the most protected areas without being noticed, is a matter of serious concern. The search operations that led to the recovery of three IEDs began only after the explosion near Kalchakra Maidan. Intelligence agencies too cannot escape their share of responsibility as all kinds of agency have effective presence in Bodh Gaya.
 
 Now dissimilarities. Whereas about a dozen bombs were planted in July 2013, the number this time is limited to just three. Earlier, several explosions took place inside the shrine, but this time no explosive could be planted inside the shrine. 
 
 Another dissimilarity pertains to the damage. In 2013, at least two monks were injured, necessitating hospitalisation. None this time.
 
 Yet another dissimilarity is regarding the timing. Whereas in 2013, the explosions took place before the sunrise, this time it was the sunset time.
 
 
