Trichy: With vehicular population in the city surging in the past five years by 15-20 per cent, the roads which accommodate them as well as the infrastructure available leave much to be desired. Already plagued by temporary encroachments, poor infrastructure and bad road sense of commuters, these arterial roads also have to contend with the absence of centre medians. 

 Over the years, the city’s most happening roads have been accommodating heavy traffic without the much-needed infrastructure such as centre median and traffic signals. This leaves thousands of commuters vulnerable to accidents. Yet, the authorities have no plan or proposal to install centre medians at the spots which are in emergent need of the facility.
 
 Considered a hub of private hospitals and clinics, Thillai Nagar spans around 11 streets which attract a lot of floating population from adjacent districts. Besides, the same streets also house multinational retail outlets and electronic stores which draw many people. Although the Thillai Nagar main road is at least 60-70 feet wide, traffic snarls are common as the bi-directional traffic flow along the stretch is not streamlined. “Thillai Nagar main road is a nightmare for any motorist. If centre medians are to be established on the stretch, road safety infrastructure such as speed breakers and traffic signals should also be provided,” V B Jaganath, member, Trichy Intra-City Development Endeavours (TIDES), said. In fact the situation is no different on Sastri road and a stretch of Salai road either. Despite having adequate width to install centre median or road divider, the absence of such streamlining mechanism has been causing chaos on the roads.
 
 Similarly, Williams road dotted with eateries, government offices, and multiplex face a similar struggle. Here, speeding city buses, mostly private fleets, ply at will assuming that the entire stretch is theirs. “Private city buses on Williams road literally terrorise two-wheeler riders. If dividers were there, commuters approaching in the other direction could have felt safe,” N Ramakrishnan, resident of an apartment on Williams road adds. 
 
 Even as the Indian Road Congress guidelines on urban roads suggest the implementation of road dividers or centre medians to regulate vehicular movement, the long-time demand to install dividers on arterial roads remains a least-discussed topic among the authorities. “As of now, we have no plans to install centre medians on the city roads,” an official with the state highways department said. With the absence of centre medians posing a threat to road users, it seems the authorities are yet to understand the importance of installing road safety mechanisms. 
 
 Rockins road
 
 Local residents alleged that a proposal to establish centre median on Rockins Road, the arterial road connecting Trichy central bus stand with the railway junction, was intentionally abandoned by the authorities. The slackness was allegedly due to pressure from traders on the stretch who feel that their business would be hit if a centre median was established to regulate traffic.
 
 Collector Office road, but who cares? 
 
 Though hundreds of officials, bureaucrats and VIPs take the stretch each day as the road houses the district collectorate, industries centre and a three star hotel, the wide road still awaits a divider. The absence of median indirectly encourages vehicles to park on the road leading to traffic congestion.
 
 
