GURUGRAM: Getting a   in Delhi has got difficult with the introduction of automated tracks. Gurugram is still far from that but passing a driving   in the city is not easy. 

 Unlike in Ghaziabad, Gurugram has a moderately strict system, and at the same time, the condition of the   is likely to give anyone a tough time.
 
 A visit to the Gurugram driving track located next to the E-Disha centre in the mini secretariat building reveals dusty and uneven H and 8-shaped tracks demarcated by traffic cones that a candidate has to navigate to pass the test.
 
 While the 8-shaped track tests forward driving skills, the H-shaped track tests forward as well as reverse driving skills and is the more difficult track to drive on as it is not paved. An official joked, saying it made more sense to take a driving test on an unpaved track as most roads in the country were also in the same condition.
 
  
  The driving is assessed by an officer or clerk from the subdivisional magistrate’s office.   fitted to a kiosk next to the track record the entire test. Anyone seeking a licence has to take the ride alone, without assistance of other people.
 
 The CCTV cameras which were recently installed have helped bring more transparency in the system. An operator or a technical expert on the premises uploads the live video on a computer and it can be viewed online by higher-ranking officials as well as the transport commissioner in Chandigarh. The videos are kept for 30 days on a hard disk or DVR at the SDM office for back-up. The test assessment is uploaded online along with the live video by the operator. 
 
 A third official is in charge of escorting licence seekers and carrying their documents, including their application, from the E-Disha office to the track so that there is no foul play in the process. Another official stationed outside the track allows people to enter the premises, only after verifying their identity with the former, ensuring that touts can’t approach licence seekers or enter the tracks. 
 
 A police officer is also present at the track to manage crowds or other problems, if and when they arise.
 
 According to Hemant Kumar, an official working with the SDM office, the CCTV cameras were installed around 3-4 months ago and before that, the driving tests used to be recorded on hand-held cameras for further checks. 
 
 “However, the online process has opened the process to live scrutiny by higher officials, whenever they wish to inspect the same,” he said. 
 
 The track was made at the current location around seven years ago. Earlier, the driving test centre was before the DC residence. The old cent-re did not have CCTV cameras or proper tracks to ensure a fair test. 
 
 For the period between March 3 and April 20, 2018, 4,010 persons have appeared for the test for permanent driving licence in Gurugram, of which 3,897 have passed and 113 have failed, according to data provided by the SDM office.
 
 (Additional reporting by Chetna Choudhry)
 
 
