BHOPAL: The CBI on Thursday filed a supplementary chargesheet against 36 new accused in contractual teachers grade-II  , taking the total number of accused in the case to 89, of which two of them have died. Thirty three of the new accused are candidates and three are middlmen.

 Remarkably, Union minister  , whose name finds mention against the name of 15 candidates in the excel-sheet recovered from then Vyapam principal computer analyst Nitin Mohindra, has got a clean chit from the investigating agency as it found no evidence against her. “Raj Bhavan”, which finds mention against the name of two candidates in the excel-sheet and was then occupied by former governor Ramnaresh Yadav, has also been exonerated.
 
 Uma Bharti’s name had appeared against the name of 15 candidates in the excel-sheet, who appeared in contractual teachers’ exam-2011, as the person who recommended their name for selection. While all the 15 candidates have been made an accused in the case, Uma Bharti has got a clean chit mainly on the basis that none of the accused candidates took her name as the one whom they met and the one who assured them selection during CBI interrogation.
 
 The name ‘Raj Bhavan’ figures against the name of two candidates-Preeti Choudhary and Sushil Kumar Bhaskar, but here again Choudhary told the CBI that she had given her name to one Raman Ahirwar, who is also an accused in the case, and then controller of Vyapam, and he had assured her husband that she would qualify in the exam. The chargesheet also refers to then controller of Vyapam, Pankaj Trivedi, who is one of the alleged kingpins of the racket and an accused already chargesheeted in the case, who told during interrogation that OSD to then governor Dhanraj Yadav had given her name for selection. The name of the second candidate, Sushil Kumar Bhaskar, against whose name Raj Bhavan was found written, was also given to Dhanraj Yadav, said the chargesheet. Dhanraj Yadav has already been chargesheeted in the case.
 
 The mystery regarding ‘minister’ which figures in the excel-sheet twice as the one who recommended selection of Nisha Mishra and Rano Sen largely remains a mystery though Rao Sen admitted to have met OSD to  , OP Shukla, and gave her roll number to him.
 
 
