AGARTALA: A   was injured on Friday in an alleged attack by   in   when the group of CPM workers were returning after a meeting with the  . According to SP (South) Jal Singh Meena, some unknown  , injuring one Trilokesh Sinha. Police have started an investigation but nobody has been arrested so far, he added. 

 Reacting to the incident, hundreds of CPM workers held a three-hour sit-in demonstration seeking action from the BJP-IPFT government against the alleged political vendetta of the administration against opposition parties. The party also demanded that the government shift focus towards solving the crisis of food and employment in the hills from the government's 'urban and secretariat-based development plan'. They alleged that decisions being taken at the policy level are not being implemented on the ground.
 
 Top CPM leaders, including former chief minister Manik Sarkar, joined the agitation on Friday. Protesters also sought a response from the government on the demolition drives on government land, which they said are targeting offices of opposition parties. The administration has bulldozed more than 200 constructions in the last three weeks, protesters alleged.
 
 "We want that normalcy is restored in the state's administrative functioning and that poor people should not suffer any crisis. The government came to power with the peoples' mandate, so it is expected that they must work for the commoners without any political bias," said CPM state secretary Bijan Dhar. The government is trying to destroy all democratic institutions and party offices have been demolished but basic issues like food, employment options and security are at risk under the BJP-IPFT government, he added.
 
 Leader of opposition and CPM politburo member Manik Sarkar termed the functioning of the government undemocratic and condemned the attitude of the ruling party towards all opposition parties. He added that the government is focussing on non-issues to divert attention from its failure in other core areas.
 
 "People are not getting social pension, there are reports of food crisis in rural areas, however the government is mum over these issues and the ruling party is forcibly capturing panchayats," said Sarkar.
 
 
