Vacations are on and if you’re planning to spend some quality time with your family, what better way than watching a family entertainer? Harsh Chhaya’s directorial debut ' ', which releases today, promises to be a laugh riot that can be enjoyed by the entire family. The film, which features an ensemble cast including  ,  ,   and Dolly Ahluwalia, is a reminder of the evergreen comedies like 'Angoor' (1982), 'Khatta Meetha' (1978), 'Chupke Chupke' (1975) and 'Bawarchi' (1972).

 'Khajoor Pe Atke' is a fast-paced, emotional rollercoaster comedy that takes a pensive look into one of the most poignant moments of human life — the illness of a loved one — and peppers it with irony and spices it up with humour. The makers believe the film will appeal to the masses, as the story is relatable. 
 
 Jeetendar (Manoj Pahwa) plays a hyper, emotional and responsible elder sibling, while Ravindar (Vinay Pathak) is the laid-back, slightly self-centred youngest sibling. Their sister Lalita (Dolly Ahluwalia) is superstitious and when coupled with her religious fervour, becomes a pain to the doctors in the hospital! Sushila (Seema Pahwa), Jeetendar’s wife, loves to gossip while Anuradha (Suneeta Sengupta), Ravindar wife, is greedy and snobbish. And of course, no family is complete without a girl of marriageable age, who has her own aspirations (Sanah Kapur) and a mischievous trio of young boys. 
 
 Talking about the movie, Vinay Pathak said, “The first thing that made me say yes to the film was the script. When I read it, there was a certain freshness to the characters and I was convinced that I should be a part of the film.” Manoj Pahwa shared, “I could relate to the characters well, because they are very close to real life. Just like my character in the film, I am also the eldest one in my family, and there were many instances that I could relate to in the film.” 
 
 This summer, with all kinds of thrillers and action films releasing, 'Khajoor Pe Atke', with its unique yet relatable subject, promises to be a breath of fresh air.
 
 'Khajoor Pe Atke', produced by Welcome Friends Productions, presented by S.O.I.E. and distributed by PVR pictures with music on Zee Music, releases today.
 
