MUMBAI: In an important order, the Bombay high court has rapped the Mumbai police for indulging in "a business of registering FIR" along with a private party. Terming it an "abuse of the process of law", it quashed the FIR against a Dubai-based  , who was a partner in a firm that was booked for software piracy. 

 A division bench of Justices   and   found that the action had been launched at the behest of a private agent, who claimed to be representing the interests of companies who had developed the software. The court said it seemed to have been done to force the NRI's firm to negotiate. It was revealed that the police had even travelled in the private car belonging to the agent.
 
 "After going through the complaint, search panchanama, the first remand report, we hold that the police machinery has been set into motion by the complainant as its business, to ensure that the petitioners are brought to the negotiation table," said the judges, adding that it was done "to ensure that the firm either purchases the software or pays the licence fees, and/or damages to the complainant. Thus, the law has been set into motion to make gains by the agents with the active help of police".
 
 The court perused the materials collected in the probe and said they do not make out a case for cheating or other provisions of the Indian Penal Code. "No doubt the offences registered under the Copyright Act are of a serious nature, but the manner and process undertaken for registering the offences are not sustainable in law," it said.
 
 The court also referred to a 2016 police circular directing all police stations to ensure they would not deal with agents appointed to liaison with the police.
 
 In the present case, the police, along with the private agents, raided the Vikhroli office of M/s AU Finja Jewels for allegedly installing a pirated software, Jewelcad. The agent claimed to have the authority to enforce the copyright, even though the company that had made the software had not lodged the complaint.  , a partner in the firm, had approached the court urging it to quash the FIR.
 
 
