BHOPAL: Five back-to back probes and three months after informing the state assembly that about 300 people who sold pulses worth Rs 7 crore to the government at minimum support price in   district could not be verified as farmers, no progress has been made in the case.

 The payments against this purchase was made after verification by collector-led investigating team. It is noteworthy that collector’s verification was fifth probe in the same case. The Markfed—the agency responsible for procurement— had refrained from sharing the earlier probe reports under right to information Act citing that an order by state information commissioner to bring Markfed under the ambit of RTI Act is pending with the high court.
 
 Earlier TOI had reported that more pulse was procured than it was produced in   area of Narsinghpur district. In reply to a question during the winter session of MP Assembly, agriculture minister   had said on December 4 that, “In case of 116 people who sold 4493.36 quintals of ‘moong’ and 189 people who had sold 6233.23 quintals of ‘tuar’, it could not be verified whether they are farmers.” This approximately 10,500 quintals of moong and tuar is worth Rs 7 crore.
 
 The state government doesn’t procure dal, but it did so this year to cool down the frayed tempers of farmers who staged violent protests across state in June. Officials procured 15,000 metric tonnes of toor from Tendukheda. However, this quantity was far more than the total average yield of pulses that were sown in the tehsil. Subsequently, a probe was ordered into the case. A total of four probe committees have probed the issue and the fifth was constituted at local administration level, which found the farmers to be real.
 
 Managing director of Markfed, Dhyaneshwar B   told TOI, “We had informed in the assembly that 300 farmers are yet to be verified but the committee led by collector found each of these as farmers. Data of each farmer was sent to us and thus the payment was made. The committee did not found the sellers guilty but had found the role of some societies dubious and further action was initiated against those societies.”
 
