KOZHIKODE: As rice biodiversity continues to shrink in the state, the result of the first grassroot-level survey conducted in   comes as a silver lining.

 The survey, covering 23 panchayats and three municipalities in the district, was conducted to ascertain the traditional rice varieties preserved by farmers. It has found that farmers, including tribal cultivators, have managed to cultivate and preserve 62 traditional rice varieties, including rare and endangered varieties.
 
 The survey was conducted from February 20- 26 by the state agriculture department and   (KAU) with participation of 43 students from the College of Agriculture, Padannakkad.
 
 The survey has also been able to collect some important facts about the native rice varieties like duration of crop, unique features, geographic location, yield, nutritional value, size and colour of the varieties and seed, and climate-change and pest resistance qualities of the varieties. The information along with the contact details of the farmers have also been compiled into a directory.
 
 P  , associate director of research at the regional agriculture research station (RARS) of KAU at   said that detailed information about the 62 rice varieties were collected by meeting the farmers directly.
 
 “The fact that the farmers of the district have managed to preserve such a significant number of indigenous rice landraces despite facing several odds is commendable. The value of silent food biodiversity conservation undertaken by them is invaluable and they should be honoured for their service apart from providing financial and technical incentives,” he added.
 
 Among the indigenous Wayanadan varieties, many of which are rare and confined to small pockets in the district, are ayiram kana, edavaka, onamottan, karimbalan, kumkumashali, kurumbali, peruvazha, vethandam, karutha njavara etc,.
 
 Many traditional rice varieties of Wayanad are highly resilient against climatechange and are stress-tolerant apart from having aromatic and medicinal properties.
 
 The district used to have highly-diverse rice varieties numbering around 105.
 
 Deputy director of agriculture,   said that a detailed genetic-level study on the rice varieties of Wayanad should be conducted for a varietal evaluation.
 
 The government has already announced a special agriculture zone for floriculture and speciality rice in Wayanad and various schemes are under implementation for helping farmers preserve the native rice varieties.
 
