INDORE: In the very first match of the   way back in 2008, Brendon McCullum’s breathtaking 158 had taken Kolkata Knight Riders to 222/3 against Royal Challengers Bangalore. It took KKR 10 years, and two IPL titles, to get past that total.

 
 
 
 On Saturday, KKR’s batsmen did everything right, hitting boundaries at will against   to post 245/6, the highest at the Holkar Stadium and the fourth-highest total in IPL history. Sunil Narine laid the foundation with a 36-ball 75 (9x4, 4x6). Giving him company were Chris Lynn (27; 17b, 2x4, 2x6) and Robin Uthappa (24; 17b, 2x4, 1x6). Skipper   (50; 23b, 5x4, 3x6) and Andre Russell (30; 14b, 2x4, 3x6) then carried on the momentum with some audacious hitting to enthrall the Indore crowd.
 
 
 
 With a thin batting lineup, chasing a tall score like 245 was always a going to be a Herculean task for Kings. When Punjab came out to bat, KL Rahul (66; 29b, 2x4, 7x6) launched a blistering attack with two back-to-back sixes off Narine in the first over. He again looked in golden touch, while Chris Gayle took his time. The pair was going well and put on yet another 50-run stand when Andre Russell struck twice in two balls, removing Gayle and Mayank Agrawal. Once Rahul was freakishly dismissed around the legs, Kings XI Punjab were out of the contest, though they too managed to cross the 200-run mark, posting 214/8 to lose by 31 runs.
 
 In their adopted home, Kings XI Punjab turned out to be perfect hosts, dishing out regular boundary balls to KKR. It was that sort of a day for KXIP skipper Ashwin, and except for the toss, nothing went right for him. Spin has been Punjab’s main weapon but all three spinners — Ashwin, Mujeeb Ur Rahman and Axar Patel — went for plenty.
 
 Their key spinner Rahman had to leave the field after being hit on the right hand by Narine. Rahman has bowled remarkably well in the middle overs this season, and his absence affected Punjab’s plans plans as Knight Riders scored 141 between the 6th and 16th overs. On a belter of a wicket with short boundaries, there was hardly any respite for the bowlers.
 
 Just when it looked like opposition teams had sorted Narine out, he came up with another brilliant knock. He dented Punjab’s confidence early on while Karthik and Russell demoralized them in the middle and death overs. Quite a few hits went to the third tier and twice umpires needed to replace the lost balls. After a quiet start, Narine opened up with powerful shots.
 
 Skipper Ravichandran Ashwin was greeted by Narine with a huge six over long-on. The next ball was hit over mid-off for a boundary. The Lynn got into the act, welcoming Sran with a massive six which went out of the stadium. Narine followed that huge six with two boundaries. KKR had got five boundaries in the space of ten balls.
 
 Ashwin had to bring his most successful bowler, Andrew Tye, but he too was welcomed with a six by Lynn. Tye struck next ball as Lynn’s inside edge hit the stumps. By then, Knight Riders had made the full use of the Powerplay, scoring 59.
 
 Extra fielders after the powerplay too didn’t make much of a difference as Narine launched Axar Patel for a straight six before hitting Ashwin for back-to-back boundaries. Soon, the left-hander brought up his fifty off just 26 balls.
 
 After their dismissals, Karthik and Russell kept the boundaries flowing, and their 50-run stand came inside four overs as the two hit four fours and an equal number of sixes.
 
