AHMEDABAD:   (VHP) international working president   said on Tuesday that he got information that police were coming for his “encounter”. The firebrand leader made this allegation a day after he went “missing” in the wake of   arriving here to arrest him. Eleven hours later, on Monday evening, he was “found” in an unconscious state in Kotarpur here by an unidentified caller.

  
  “I was at the VHP office on Monday, performing morning puja, when someone told me that police are coming for my encounter. At that time, I did not pay heed. After some time, I got a call that a team of   police accompanied by Gujarat police is coming from Sola. I am not a person who would be afraid to die, but I feared its consequences in the country. Thus, I immediately left the office with a karyakarta (VHP worker) in an auto,” said Togadia, explaining his disappearance. Addressing mediapersons with a cannula attached to his hand, Togadia said he had started off for Jaipur on Monday afternoon when he fell unconscious and had to be hospitalised. He claimed there was a conspiracy to arrest him in one case or another and send him to various prisons to suppress his voice. He alleged that IB was behind the recent police cases against him.
 
 The Rajasthan Police had come to take Togadia in connection with a 2002 case when he held a public rally in Sawai Madhopur district despite a ban on his entry. He said he was not fleeing from the Rajasthan police but decided to surrender in court as he was suspicious of the police’s motives. He added that on Sunday, he had returned from a function in Mumbai at about 1.30am and thus had asked the personnel in his Z-plus security cover to report at 2.30pm on Monday.
 
 “I then went to a person’s residence in Thaltej who is not part of VHP. I contacted the chief minister and the home minister of Rajasthan about the police action as I was not aware of any such case against me. They assured me that no such police team has been sent to arrest me. I then immediately switched off my mobile phones and contacted some lawyers in Rajasthan. They advised me that if the warrant is issued by the judiciary, I should appear before the court,” said Togadia. 
 
 “I did not want to get in the hands of Rajasthan police. I thus decided to go to Rajasthan and appear before the court. I hailed an auto and started off for the airport. When we reached near (Galaxy) underpass, I felt uneasy with dizziness and profuse perspiration. I told the auto driver to take me to Dhanvantari Hospital in Bapunagar. I don’t remember anything after that,” he said.
 
 “I have nothing against Gujarat police or Rajasthan police. But even in the past when summons were issued against me in Gujarat, the local CM or home minister were not informed. Is it possible? Who, then, is responsible for the calculated re-opening of old cases against me? I will not get bogged down and continue to serve the community,” he said.
 
 
