THANE: The   filed by the two arrested for possessing   to kill wild boars, was rejected by the   in its recent order. 

 Thane Additional Sessions Judge A S Bhaisare in his order stated killing of wild animals like wild pig, deer, etc. is an offence itself under Wild Animal Protection Act. Accused were using handmade bombs for maiming or causing injuries to the wild animals. It means, they used it for hunting by using such bombs and do not deserve bail. 
 
 The two arrested Ramesh Pawar and Pravin Patil, had filed the bail application in relation to the crime under section 5 of Indian Explosive Substance Act, 1908, for which they were arrested by the Thane crime branch unit-1 and the probe was led by investigation officer  . 
 
 The case of the prosecution was that on March 25, 2018 at about 2.20 pm accused Pravin Patil was found with 290 handmade bombs worth Rs.2.32 lakh illegally for their sale. He had purchased the same from Ramesh Kamlakar Pawar, who is maker of the said bomb.
 
 Prosecutor Vinit Kulkarni appearing for the prosecution vehemently opposed the bail and submitted in the court that the samples were sent to concerned chemical analysis authority. 
 
 Even Bagul stated that the there could be other links of the gang which needs to be probed and the accused if released on bail can indulge in same thing. 
 
 While the defence counsel submitted that accused had no antecedent on their record and by profession they are agriculturist and fishermen. The said bombs are not dangerous to human life. They used to cause injury to the animals like wild pig. No animal can maim by it.
 
 After hearing both the sides, in his order the judge observed, "Killing of wild animals like wild pig, deer, etc. is an offence itself under Wild Animal Protection Act. Accused were using handmade bombs for maiming or causing injuries to the wild animals. It means, they used it for hunting by using such bombs. 
 
 "The investigation is not completed and chargesheet not filed. Therefore, in my view, if the applicants are released on bail, they may repeat the same crime. Therefore, I find no substance to grant application, atleast till filing of chargesheet," the judge said. 
 
