LUDHIANA: His story would go down the history books as that of a person who never gives up. A back injury in January was never meant to be a setback for city  ,  , 23 who has fought his way back to qualify for the second National Para Badminton Championship which will be held at Varanasi from March 23 to 25. 

 Gagandeep showed his mettle in the recently-concluded trials held under the supervision of the   of the India last month in Bengaluru. Gagandeep first shot to limelight after clinching a bronze medal in the World Dwarf Games at   city of   from August 4 to 12 last year.
 
 An elated Gagandeep told TOI, “After recovering from the injury I was apprehensive about my preparations for the national championship matches. But by God’s grace, I returned to the court in the last week of February and managed to qualify for the national games where I would get an opportunity to compete against the best in the field to make it to the international stage.” 
 
 However the journey of Gagandeep has not been that easy as he has had to face hurdles at every step. “For the past several months, I have been hunting for a sponsor who could help me financially during national and international tournaments. But unfortunately, nothing worked except assurances from big corporate houses,” he said. 
 
 Financial crisis has been haunting him since the beginning. “I am still reeling under financial crisis as the loan which I took during the last international tournament is yet to be paid back due to family problems. We are still paying the interest of the same amount as no association has showed any concern towards us. Even though, I have approached the state sports department but what I only got was verbal assurance,” he said.
 
 Gagandeep also expressed his ire at the indifferent attitude of the sports department “The major reason behind the failure of the sports functionary bodies in the state is that they don’t have any plan for the national, state, international level tournament winners unlike the Haryana government which has adopted a sports policy in the recent past for promoting sports at the grass root level,” he said.
 
 Sandeep Sehgal, his coach, claimed, “Gagandeep has the potential to secure a medal for the country at the international level. But financial crunch is an issue. The district badminton association member will do the best for him and motivate him to make his country proud.”
 
 
