NEW DELHI: In separate operations against gunrunners, crime branch and special cell busted two major modules supplying weapons and ammunition to city gangs.

 Apart from a   pistol and 35 live 9mm rounds, the crime branch seized a long barrel pistol and four 7.65mm pistols with 24 cartridges. The special cell has arrested a major ammunition supplier carrying a reward of Rs 1 lakh and seized four pistols and 50 cartridges.
 
 The seized Glock pistol is not only original but better than the one used by policemen, sources said. Policemen in Delhi use   that have 14 or 17-round clips. This one has a 20-round magazine and better safety features too. The men arrested by crime branch have been identified as Washim Chikna from Meerut, and   and Lalit Anand from Delhi.
 
 According to DCP (crime) Joy Tirkey, sleuths of SOS unit had received information about the movements of weapon traffickers after which a team under ACP Shweta Chauhan was formed. “On specific information, the team laid a trap in Paschimpuri and arrested the suspects. Prateek was found carrying a US-made Glock pistol. Prateek was earlier involved in a case of armed robbery lodged at Vijay Vihar. He procured firearms from Meerut, UP and supplied them in NCR,” Tirkey said.
 
 Waseem had earlier stolen a   inspector’s car in Kathgodam. But he was only the middleman linking buyers with sellers. Anand arranged for buyers, police said.
 
 On the other hand, DCP Pramod Kushwaha’s team from special cell laid a trap at IP Park on Outer Ring Road and arrested one of north India’s most wanted gunrunners, Shiv Kumar. Kumar had been in the trade for five years and supplied more than 250 pistols to criminals. ACP Attar Singh had been tipped off about the suspect.
 
 “Kumar got cartridges from a person in Agra and weapons from Madhya Pradesh. A consignment of seven pistols sent by him through his carrier Kailash in September last year was busted by the cell. He used to buy a pistol for Rs 10,000 and sell it for around Rs 25,000,” Kushwah said. In 2014, Kumar and his associates had also committed a robbery in a UP Roadways bus. Now, cops are looking for his associate Anil, who also carries a reward of Rs 1 lakh.
 
 
