It’s that time of the year when Bengalis across the world swing into a celebratory mood. From shopping for new clothes to gorging on traditional delicacies and reuniting with friends and family, the Bengali New Year or Poila Boishakh is celebrated in all its grandeur by the young and old alike. But, does immersing yourself in the festivities ensure you have adequate knowledge about the subject? Turns out most of our young Bengali brigade are oblivious to even the most basic facts related to this auspicious occasion. CT spoke to students from various city colleges to gauge the   among today’s generation. From blaming the advancement of technology and social media to labelling it as an event which is “not universally accepted”, students cited various reasons for not being in the know of basic facts. 

 Bengali or Bong?
 When asked about which Bengali year will commence from today, only two out of the 15 students we surveyed could answer correctly. “Bengali New Year? I guess it’s 1400 something,” replied one. Well, dear, that could be anything between 1400 and 1499! 
 Funnily enough, most students mixed up the Bengali names of the months with the names of seasons! However, one thing that we observed was that students who knew the year correctly, could also tell the right names of the months. 
 
 Just another festival
 For most students, Poila Boishakh means nothing more than just another festival. The only things they can associate it with are good food and new clothes. After failing at naming the Bengali months, Sumedha Pandit of   said, “Poila Boishakh is only about new dresses now. It’s like any other Bengali festival. Thus, we don’t pay much heed to it.”
 Sreejita Saha of Techno India echoed similar views. “Poila Boishakh is like another Durga Puja, where putting on a new dress is mandatory. We can relate with the western culture much more than we relate to the Bengali culture. Even the schools didn’t teach us about the Bengali months,” she said after failing the quiz.
 
 Losing significance
 Some students also blamed the advancement of technology for the youngsters’ growing indifference towards Bengali rituals and culture. “Technology is responsible for creating distance among us. The significance of Poila Boishakh has come down to a point where it is just about family gatherings like any other festival. It just kindles a community feeling among Bengalis,” said Anwesha Das Gupta from  , who knew which Bengali year is commencing today.
 Sushrita Ganguly from   said social media and technology have become such an integral part of student life that they are gradually getting detached from their culture and traditions. Koushumi Pandit from St Xavier’s College, who could name all the Bengali months, said, “Nowadays, it’s more about ‘Bong’liana than Bangaliana.” To this, Subhabrata Ganguly from Presidency University added, “Bengali New Year never had much significance anyway. It’s the English New Year that is always universally accepted. So, something which is not universally accepted can’t have much of an impact.”
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  St Xavier’s College: 65%
 
  Presidency University: 50%
 
  Techno India University: 45%
 
  Loreto College: 40%
 
  Jadavpur University: 35%
 
 
 
 
 
 Koushumi Pandit
 Could say the names of the 12 months in correct order
 Failed to name the year
 
 Koyena Ghosh
 Could tell the names of three months in correct order
 No idea about the year
 
 Anusuya Sen
 Could name all the 12 months in Bengali in correct order
 Failed to name the year
 
 
 
 
 Sumedha Pandit
 Could not name either the months or the year
 
 Prantik Basu
 Knew all 12 Bengali names of the months in correct order 
 Named the year at one go 
 
 Subhabrata Ganguly
 Could recollect nine out of 12 Bengali months in correct order 
 Unable to recall the year 
 
 
 
 
 
 Akash Chakraborty
 Could name all the months in correct order
 Unable to recall the year
 
 Tarunava Saha
 Could name eight months but not in the right order
 Couldn’t name the year
 
 Sreejita Saha
 Could name six months but haphazardly
 Could not name the year
 
 
 
 
 Debadrita Khan
 Could name five months in correct order 
 No idea about the year
 
 Anwesha Das gupta
 Named five months, though not in correct order 
 Guessed the year after a couple of attempts
 
 Sayantani Mitra
 Could name two months
 Unable to name the year
 
 
 
 
 Debojyoti Das
 Could recollect the names of six months but in wrong order
 No idea about the year
 
 Rajanya Nandi
 No idea about either the months or the year in Bengali
 
 Sushrita Ganguly
 Named four months in wrong order
 l No idea about the year
 
 -- Pushpita Dey
 
 
 
