As   get increasingly   with the advent of newer gadgets and appliances, here’s how you could cut through the complexity by implementing these ideas for intelligent energy consumption…

 
 
 Natural lighting:
 
 For a country with an abundance of sunlight, it’s a pity that this resource is severely underutilised. If your home has even one large east-facing window, you can reduce artificial daylight consumption. “Passive solar design is a huge trend in the west, where natural heat and sunlight are considered premium. However, urban Indian homes are now warming up to this concept by using simple yet smart window fixtures such as blinds, drapes, sunroofs and awnings. These help to maximise sunlight while cutting out intense heat and glare,” suggests Mumbai-based interior designer, Shruti Subramanian.
 
 Walls and windows:
 
 Giving your home a fresh coat of paint? Think light colours and fresh tones that will reflect light to give your home a large, spacious feel. Delhi-based interior designer Saheba Singh, says, “Somewhere between grey and beige, taupe is a hot trend this season. Taupe is an easy, a neutral yet versatile shade that can add great charm to your living spaces in the form of light sheer curtains, upholstery, cushions, bolsters and other soft furnishings.”
 
 Lighting fixtures:
 
 When it comes to lighting, more is not always better. Match the amount and quality of light required for a room for optimum quality and energy consumption. For instance, 60-watt CFL / LED generally suffices as ambient lighting in a living room. For functions that require more light such as reading or working in the kitchen, consider higher wattages. “Consider strategic placement of multiple lower watt lights instead of a single higher watt source. This way you can play with interesting shadows and aesthetics to give a warm appeal to your home,” advises Singh.
 
 Home automation:
 
 With increasing number of digital devices in the urban home, technology in the form of home automation through the Internet of Things (IoT) is now being seen as a tool to achieve energy efficiency in the home environment. Consider having all your home appliances connected to your mobile phone through which you can check their performance metrics and determine which needs service or replacement based on power consumption. Architect and interior designer Ashiesh Shah says, “Home automation is an excellent energy saver. One needs to tap into a home’s existing potential and use natural light, ventilation, create smart storage solutions and use the right materials for intelligent resource utilisation. If you want to create a tech-friendly home, look into home automation options, using energy friendly lighting, installing solar panels and creating rainwater harvesting systems. In fact, even artworks are going digital today, in the form of kinetic art.”
 By 'Annabel D Souza'
