Panaji: Indian Navy has scheduled the meet of stakeholders on Dabolim runway closure on May 10 after Friday’s meet remained inconclusive. Navy had convened the meeting between airlines, Airports Authority of India and Travel and Tourism Association of India on its proposal to close the sole runway at the Goa international airport for maintenance every weekend, which it intends to do after the monsoons. “No final decision has been taken. We are still discussing with airlines about the maintenance of the runway and if maintenance time is given then how much time should be given,” Goa international airport director B C H Negi said. Naval authorities plan to close the runway every Saturday and Sunday for a period of four hours each day for repairs. According to sources, the high frequency operations at the airport are taking a toll on the runway. “It is getting damaged and the tarmac has lumps forming in certain places,” a source said. The move to shut the runway from 8.30am to 12.30pm will affect airlines, specifically international charter operators who prefer to land with foreign tourists on weekends. A meeting with representatives of international charter operators has already been held and some have hinted that they may reduce the number of charter flight arrivals if the runway remains closed on weekends in the coming tourist season. “TUI Airways was supposed to operate four flights but has indicated that it may operate only three arrivals or even less if the runway remains closed,” TTAG president Savio Messias said. Stakeholders have suggested that the slots for landing and takeoff for commercial airlines could be reworked to allow charter operators to land in the afternoon, which is the peak time for domestic flights. The Navy has also been asked to consider undertaking repairs of the runway at night when the frequency of flights is low, said sources. As per reliable information, the navy does not appear convinced of the idea. The proposal to conduct maintenance activity during the week has also proved to be unacceptable for the navy. “A suggestion has been made that the navy could undertake repairs on any one day, either Saturday or Sunday and instead of four hours, they can work for six hours. The Navy has said that they will study and try to see if it can work out,” Messias said. Several rounds of discussions have been held but as of now, the state government is not involved in the negotiations, say officials but they did add that the final decision about the runway closure would be taken in consultation with the ministry of defence and Union ministry of civil aviation.