Surat: A Right to Information (RTI) activist has urged the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) and the district administration to ban shrimp ponds around Surat airport along the lines of South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) proposal that says no slaughtering of animals and birds by meat shops will be allowed within a 10 km radius of the Indira Gandhi International Airport. At least more than 1,000 shrimp ponds fall under the landing and take off route of flights operated by SpiceJet and Air India. For gulls and other seafood hunting birds, shrimp ponds are a major attraction. This is why airport authorities here are wary of aquaculture activity in Olpaad, Dandi Road, Sonlakhara, Morbhagva, Dumas, Hansot and Mandroi, but are unable to do much to contain it.  RTI activist Rajesh Modi told TOI, “SDMC’s proposal to ban slaughter of animals and birds within a 10 km radius of IGI airport is for the safety of the aircraft which are vulnerable to bird-hits. Surat airport is surrounded by shrimp farms, majority of which are constructed on government land illegally. We need to have a same proposal for the airport here.” In 2013, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) had hired a professional agency for taking up the job of scaring away birds for smooth operations of flights. The airport area is close to river Tapi and there are many shrimp ponds in the vicinity, which attract migratory waterfowls. There has been only one reported incident of bird-hit at the airport, but the authorities remain extra cautious for passenger safety. Sources said minor incidents of bird-hits go unreported as pilots of aircraft landing and taking off from the airport do not report them to the authorities concerned as the procedure may delay the flights.  About 55,000 tonne of shrimps were produced on 10 lakh hectare of land in Gujarat in 2017 which was 12% of national production and generated a turnover of Rs 2, 500 crore. Shrimp farming in the Diamond City has an annual turnover of over Rs 150 crore. In 2011-12, about 3,800 metric tonne of king prawns valued at Rs 121 crore were exported from Surat. Out of over 4,000 shrimp ponds in and around the city, at least 50 per cent are illegal.  Surat district collector Mahendra Patel told TOI, “Shrimp farmers in the coastal areas around the airport approached Gujarat high court when the administration asked them to vacate the government land. In the case related to shrimp farmers from Bhimpore near Surat airport, we have asked AAI to become a party. Until now, none of the shrimp farms has been vacated by the farmers from the government land.”