TRICHY: The vintage area of the city spread over a two-kilometre radius around the iconic Rockfort temple may have several shops named after the chief deity, Thayumanavar. But when it comes to eateries, Thayumanavar food centre on   street seems to have carved a niche for itself among foodies. A majority of the regular customers to the stall go for the chapathis made here. 

 To make the humble chappathis do the talking is indeed a creditable achievement for an eatery. With Chinnakadai street and other dozen streets around the Rockfort known for their own traditional south Indian fare as signature dishes, Thayumanavar food centre is most sought after for serving the ‘softest’ chapathis in old Trichy. “The reason for the tenderness in our chappathis is the quality of the wheat dough which we never stock. We would prepare the dough instantly based on requirement since keeping the dough idle for hours makes the chappathi hard,” said,  , 51, proprietor of the food centre. 
 
 Like most other established  , Thayumanavar food centre also had a humbling beginning functioning from an open cart. Now, Kumar is not alone in running the shop and is well-supported by his family women includes his wife Nirmala and sisters Akilambal and Banumathi who help roll the chappathis on demand. Before you start pondering how tender can chappathis be, one has to admit that it is the unique coconut milk kurma served with the Indian bread variant that makes the chappathis even more popular. 
 
 “Unlike other stalls where kurmas served along with chappathis are watery and too spicy, this stall maintains a certain taste and density. The chappathi kurma is very popular with children too,” says S  , a frequent customer.
 
 Kumar reveals that four vegetables — potato, green peas, carrot and beans — form the key ingredients of the kurma. They are added in equal proportion along with the unique raw coconut milk. “We always prepare surplus quantity of kurma since residents nearby would purchase kurma alone to treat their guests. At least 150 chappathis are sold per day, with two pieces costing Rs 20,” Kumar adds. 
 
 Holidays for the shop are restricted to less than five for a whole year as regular customers would call up the family if shutters are not opened. Besides chapathis and coconut milk kurma, Thayumanavar food centre also serves hot idiyappam with sweet coconut milk and ragi puttu. Unlike other food centres that rely mostly on people dining at the stall, the 11-year-old food centre banks heavily on its takeaway customers who prefer to enjoy the delicious dishes with family members at home. Serving only for 4 hours a day, Thayumanavar is another home near home for Rockfort residents.
 
 
