CHENNAI: In a move aimed at avoiding isolation in the popular demand of the political parties and farmers associations, the Tamil Nadu state BJP unit on Wednesday came out in open and urged the Modi government to constitute the   (CMB). The state BJP leaders had been treading cautiously so far in using the term CMB ever since the court verdict came on February 16 and Wednesday’s move is to avoid coming under attack for toeing Karnataka’s line.

 A committee of three members led by Rajya Sabha MP L Ganesan called on Union minister Nitin Gadkari in New Delhi and sought the formation of the CMB. “Our intention was to express the consolidated feeling of the entire state, particularly the Cauvery delta farmers and the state BJP unit. The judgment should be implemented in toto. BJP is not lagging behind any political party in demanding that the Cauvery Management Board should be constituted. The minister gave a patient hearing and promised to convey it to the concerned people,” Ganesan told TOI. The other members are state general secretary   and Kisan Morcha president Pon Vijayaraghavan. Union minister   was also present.
 
 Ganesan, who hails from Thanjavur, said the court had by “mistake” calculated the requirement of water at present availed by the delta farmers for one crop. The region had seen three crops several years ago due to availability of plenty of water. “The minister understood our views,” he said, expressing hope the Union government would comply with the court directive. The minister also assured the inter-linking of Godavari and Cauvery very early so that surplus water was diverted to TN. Gadkari also hinted at setting up a desalination plant in   district to not only give drinking water but also for agriculture. The 15-minute meeting raised confidence, Ganesan said.
 
 Meanwhile, the AIADMK government continued to exert pressure on the Centre. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said he expected the Centre would come up with a good decision on setting up the board and committee. “The Centre should realise the aspirations of the people of Tamil Nadu and the delta farmers,” he told reporters in Salem. The next course of action, Palaniswami said, would be decided only after the lapse of six-week deadline set by the court.
 
 The chief minister has convened a meeting of senior cabinet colleagues and bureaucrats on Thursday at 10am in Secretariat to discuss the Centre’s dilly-dallying in Cauvery dispute. The state government has filed a rejoinder to Karnataka’s counter before the water resources ministry on Monday, reiterating its demand.
 
