Gurgaon: Huda has decided to take a 600m-stretch of Badshapur   passing through Khandsa village underground, along the Old Khandsa road. 

 This, after litigation prevented the urban development authority from acquiring the stretch of land to build the drain overground.
 
 Huda’s plan is to dig up the relevant stretch of road to build a box-drain under it, and then re-build the road over it. “Constructing drain under a road is not unusual,” said a Huda official. This way, Huda hopes to increase the capacity of the   well ahead of this year’s monsoons, and prevent a rerun of the Gurujam of 2016.
 
 A 2km-stretch of Badshapur drain that passes through Khandsa village needs to be widened, to increase its carrying capacity and prevent waterlogging at Hero Honda Chowk and nearby areas. For this, Huda has already rehabilitated around 35 houses in Khandsa to acquire a stretch of around 600m. 
 
 It was when Huda was trying to acquire another 600m-stretch near Shanti Ispat, that landowners filed a case, putting a spanner in Huda’s plans. There is no obstacle in the remaining 800m-stretch of drain passing through Khandsa.
 
 “The drain was supposed to pass through an area where locals didn’t want to part with their land, and filed a case. So we decided to take the drain under the road along that stretch,” said Huda administrator Chander Shekhar Khare, adding this will allow them to complete the project before monsoon. 
 
 Khare said people whose houses were coming in the way of the drain had already been given alternative plots in Sector 37C. 
 
 “Notices have been issued to people to vacate their homes,” he said, adding he’s hoping to complete the formalities within 10-15 days.
 
 Huda has also shot a letter to NHAI on March 22, advising it of measures it could take to prevent waterlogging during monsoon. 
 
 The letter states measures — including de-silting of an existing culvert (constructed by NHAI last year) at Khandsa on the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway, dismantling the ‘wing wall’ of the old culvert which is blocking the upstream face of the new culvert, deploying pumps of sufficient capacity at drains and arrangement to dispose rainwater in underpasses — should also be audited by a technical committee before the monsoons.
 
 “All these steps are required to save Gurgaon from ‘Gurujam’ this monsoon season,” said Huda’s letter. 
 
 In the aftermath of Gurujam in July 2016 — when continuous rains had caused massive waterlogging at Hero Honda Chowk — the state government had announced a plan to widen Badshapur drain along Khandsa. But 20 months on, the work is yet to be completed.
 
 
