Trichy: Trichy City Corporation has initiated the implementation of automatic water meter reading (AMR), a digital water management process to arrest loss of water and revenue incurred through erroneous collection of readings from existing water meters. Through the smart technology, the civic body aims to promote equitable distribution of water and bring down excessive water consumption since the proposed AMR system would charge water bills based on individual consumption.

 AMR mechanism is based on cloud computing technology to monitor real-time consumption of water and also calculate water bills based on actual consumption per month. Similar to the electricity bills which are charged based on the units consumed, the AMR would additionally solve the purpose of cutting down water loss which includes even a water tap kept open unknowingly. Though metered water connection already exists, the civic body has been individually verifying the readings in the water meters.   it to say that this is a time-consuming and error-bound process as there are as many as 5,000 commercial water connections. Officials say that revenue loss is inevitable in manual checking. Besides, a majority of commercial establishments here had been enjoying excessive usage of water without pursuing efforts to bring down consumption. It was to overcome these constraints that the civic body proposed the AMR technology on a pilot basis and it was implemented in its canteen leased out to a private person.
 
 “A week after installing digital water meter, the corporation’s canteen that usually consumes 8,000 litres per week limited its water usage to 3,000 litres. Through the digital meter, the user can also check consumption on a daily basis while monthly consumption will be sent to the registered mobile number,” A Bava Bakrudeen, junior engineer,  , said. Besides prompting the user to utilise water judiciously, the digital water meters will ensure that the city corporation charges the appropriate water bill for corresponding usage. “Real-time flow, pressure level and total water usage can be monitored through the digital meter and transmitted to the control room via   (GSM) Communication. Any physical attempts to influence the AMR will send an alert to control room,” the junior engineer added.
 
 Digital water meters will also rule out the use of paper as water consumption readings will be sent to the mobile numbers of the user, control room and officials concerned as text messages. Commercial connections are likely to receive AMR meters in a couple of months, official sources said. Corporation commissioner   said that the civic body would be implementing the digital water meters initially for commercial connections. “AMR will certainly help the civic body to study the present water requirements of the city with data,” the commissioner said. As the shortage of manpower to measure reading in metered water connections was taking a toll on revenue generation, AMR cloud technology is likely to plug the revenue loss.
 
 
