KOLKATA: Fifty two years after his parents Howard and Muriel were enthralled by the beauty of   temple during a trip to Kolkata as tourists, American ambassador to India   visited the temple complex in Kolkata to relive the memories his parents had cherished as tourists.

 When Juster was appointed the 25th American ambassador to India, he brought with him a photograph of Parasnath temple from his parent’s India trip. On Tuesday, he visited the temple he was familiar with. Only the temples before him resplendent in colour had mirror-inlaid pillars and stained glass windows unlike the black & white photograph he had seen while growing up in the family album.
 
 Juster visited three shrines in the complex: Sheetalnath Ji temple, Mahavir Swami temple and Dadawadi. There is a fourth Chandraprabhu Ji temple in the complex.
 
 Chetan Kothari, a trustee of Mahavir Swami Temple, who escorted the diplomat around the complex during his half-hour visit, said Juster took several photographs and mingled with other tourists and devotees.
 
 “One generally thinks Taj Mahal is the only monument that impresses foreign tourists. But there are many such unique places in India like Meenakshi Temple, Dilwara Temple, Jama Masjid and Golden Temple. Parasnath, too, is unique for one is unlikely to find a temple like this in a crowded locality of a metropolis,” he recounted.
 
 Juster said that he had an excellent time at the temple and was glad to get an opportunity to rebuild the connection with Kolkata that his parents had set.
 
 Earlier in the day, the US ambassador was present at a state department-funded “Communities Connecting Heritage” workshop with a project team from the   and traditional folk artists from  .
 
 A team of Smithsonian Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage (CFCH) staff and students of cultural studies are visiting the World Peace Music Festival ‘Sur Jahan’ in Kolkata and artists’ villages of West Bengal between February 2 and 10.
 
 He also visited the   at Jorasanko to see the US government-funded America Gallery and learned about the Nobel Laureate’s life and work. He is slated to visit Victoria Memorial Hall on Wednesday.
 
 
 
 
