PATNA: Writing, they say, makes a man perfect, but modern-day youngsters seem to be forgetting the art of writing in these times of laptops, computers and smartphones.

 Academics feel students are writing less and what they do write is often illegible. “Handwriting is also becoming poor. In an effort to save time when grading projects, many teachers allow students to hand in book reports and other written projects in type-written, rather than long-hand form,” said Patna University (PU) Hindi department head Shardendu.
 
 With laptops and tablets becoming ubiquitous, the idea of taking notes by hand is considered old-fashioned by many students today. “Typing your notes is faster — which comes in handy when there's a lot of information to take down. But doing things the old-fashioned way still has many advantages,” said PU’s English department teacher Shankar Ashish Dutt.
 
 Any language has four components — reading, listening, speaking and writing, of which reading and writing used to receive greater attention in universities. “When we were students, we used to copy texts from books in the library and, in the process, we internalized that knowledge,” Dutt recalled and regretted now students get the entire texts photocopied. 
 
 Even in classrooms, he said, most students do not copy diagrams or tables from blackboards or PPTs. They instead take a snap of the same on their smartphones. “Growing use of SMS, WhatsApp and emails have not only adversely affected the purity of the language but also alienated our youth from the world,” he added.
 
 Munger University VC and former PU pro-VC Ranjit Kumar Verma blamed introduction of objective tests at various levels for the slow death of the habit of writing. The universities and examination boards must add a component of descriptive test in the examination system with a view to inculcating the habit of writing among students, he pleaded.
 
 According to Sahitya Akademi Award winner and Patna College English teacher Arun Kamal, handwriting establishes the identity of an individual and hence one’s signature assumes importance. The analytical power of human beings would be badly affected if the age-old system of writing vanishes, he said.
 
 Sri Arvind Mahila College’s retired history teacher Asha Tripathi regretted the practice of cursive writing, which was once considered mandatory for all school students, has become a thing of the past in most institutions.
 
 “If the art of handwriting keeps dying like this, days are not far off when we would not be able to see the writings on the wall,” quipped a retired English teacher of PU.
 
 
