GREATER NOIDA: A polio-afflicted table tennis player who had won a gold and a bronze in the Thailand Para Table Tennis Open in 2013 and participated in the 2014 Asian Para Games in South Korea has decided to quit the game, blaming her decision on the lack of prospects and financial constraints.

 “I have decided to shift to any other game now. I am yet to decide which game it will be. But it has become very difficult to sustain myself. You hardly get anything. There has been no table tennis tournament in our category since 2012,” said  , who is based in Nagpur.
 
 Raj was afflicted with polio when she was 2. She was in the news last year for sleeping on the floor of the Nagpur-Nizamuddin Garib Rath express after railway officials and co-passengers reportedly refused to give her a lower berth in exchange of her upper. 
 
 Stressing how it had become difficult to sustain herself, Raj said she had had to take a loan of Rs 1.5 lakh to go to Bangkok for the Thailand Open. Her husband, too, was a table tennis player who retired in 2012.
 
 “I am still paying the interest. When we go abroad to play, we have to invest a substantial amount from our side. I had to spend around Rs 1-2 lakh on that tour. Things are so different here for us and able-bodied players. If the railways can give jobs to normal players, why not to people like us?” she asked.
 
 Apart from the international honours, Raj had in 2014 received the national youth award and the role model award from the ministry of social justice and empowerment for contribution to sports.
 
 The 35-year-old woman also rued the apparent lack of prospects in the game in her category. “For the past two years, I have not been able to even practice. There has been no national-level competition in our country since 2012,” she said.
 
 Told about Raj’s decision to quit, MP Singh, the secretary of the  , said he had had discussions with sports secretary   about trials for paralympic players in Indore for the Commonwealth Games in Australia in April.
 
