AJMER: A six-day programme for young students was organized by Young Explorer with  , scientists of King’s College London and   astronauts at Mayo College and Mayo College Girls’ School here. The programme came to an end on Sunday. It is the first programme in Rajasthan in which 130 students from schools across the country and abroad participated.

 Programmes like ‘Mission Discovery’ will not only help students to understand the vastness of the space but also help to eradicate   and dogmas in the society. Students who participated in this programme said that science should be made more effective in schools so that coming generation can think more scientifically.
 
 Riva Shandilya Thakur, a student of Mayo College Girls’ School said that the research she has done during this programme will help her to understand science in a better manner. Sneha of Indian School of Al Ghubra, Oman said that the she enjoyed the simulation activities related to space travel and space station. She added that she would like to research more on this topic. Another student said that if science is the core of education then superstition and social dogmas will go away from Indian society. “It develops scientific attitude, technology, creativity and a way to communicate with ideas in way that people can understand,” said another student.
 
 Achal Deep Dubey of Mayo College said that during the programme students were engaged in scientific experiments and projects related to space and astronomy by the resource person. Sixteen experiments were made and judged by Orion. Experiments were about converting plastic into good material, life in space and international space station. There were talks of journey to Mars, becoming an astronaut, budgeting and planning skills and environment. Astronaut Steven Ray Swanson former NASA shared his experiences in space with students. Kanchan Khandke, principal of Mayo College Girls’ School thanked everyone for having chosen the school to organise such an important scientific programme.
 
 
