WUHAN: As the expansive highway from the airport leads up to a swish city centre dotted by shiny skyscrapers, it's difficult not to be impressed by  , a 10-million plus city in central China, where President   has chosen to host PM  .

 
 It's here that Xi and Modi will have as many as six meetings in a span of 24 hours, including one in a boat on East Lake, to discuss major bilateral and global issues from, as Modi said in his departure statement, a strategic and long-term perspective and respective visions and priorities.
 
 But unlike what has been suggested until now, Modi and Xi will not have only one-on-one meetings (where they will be accompanied only by interpreters). The leaders will have at least two meetings in which both will be accompanied by a six-member delegation from their respective countries.
 
 Both these meetings will take place on Friday. The first will be at the Hubei province museum where a special exhibition has been organised. The second 1 + 6 meeting will be at the state guest house on the banks of East Lake. This meeting will be followed by another meeting over dinner. Sources insisted though that it would be wrong to describe these two meetings as structured or even an official delegation-level talk. They reiterated these meetings are not meant to go into specifics, be it terrorism or NSG membership or even the border dispute.
 
 While there's no joint statement expected, the two countries may separately issue an official statement about the outcome of the "informal" summit, sources said.
 
 In his departure statement, Modi said, "We will discuss our respective visions and priorities for national development, particularly in the context of current and future international situation. We will also review the developments in the   relations from a strategic and long-term perspective," said Modi, who landed in Wuhan around midnight.
 
 Modi and Xi will have their first meeting on Friday at the museum around 3.30 pm. While they will first meet one-on-one (which means only the interpreters would be present), after taking a round of the museum, they will sit down for talks accompanied by their respective delegations. They will then move to Xi's guest house, which is located next to Mao's famous villa, for another meeting. Saturday, however, might prove more dramatic with Modi and Xi meeting at least thrice only in the company of interpreters. They will start the day with a walk on the banks of East Lake before taking a boat ride. The leaders will then again proceed to the guest house for lunch.
 
 According to sources, a special Gujarati vegetarian fare has been arranged for Modi. After the lunch, Modi is expected to depart from Wuhan. Modi, sources said, is also carrying a gift for Xi. Modi, who was cheered by a handful of students from Kerala on his arrival at the hotel, is expected to meet a group of Indian students on Friday morning.
 
 The visit continues to draw the interest of Chinese media with China Daily saying in an opinion piece this is going to be a landmark meeting which could herald ‘Century of Asia'. It recalled how Deng Xiaoping had told Rajiv Gandhi in their transformative meeting 30 years ago that the next century would not belong to India and China if they failed to develop.
 
 
