CHANDIGARH: Did you feel the staff was honest and there was no possibility of corruption? Did you feel doctors were caring and empathetic? Did your doctor show you respect and offered a chair to sit? These and many more such questions are being given to patients coming to all OPDs at   ( ), Sector 32, to obtain their feedback. This is unique to any public hospital in the city, an aim to make hospital care patient-centric. Initially, this will apply to OPDs and later to the emergency and in-patient services.

 “We will soon come out with the results and incorporate suggestions to make hospital work effective. Most of the times we tend to improve patient care without understanding what the patient needs,” said Dr B S  , director-principal GMCH. He recently introduced this feedback system.
 
 The questions pertain to patient care right from the time of registering at the counter for consultation to reaching to the  , getting diagnostic tests, to attitude of the staff and doctor. “We have our students and volunteers in all the OPDs. They will assist patients and ask them questions. These forms will be assessed and we will improvise upon what we lack,” said Chavan.
 
 
  
 
 Two years ago, the ministry of health and family welfare had started an application “My Hospital” to take patient feedback from empanelled private and public hospital. However, the system is based on SMS and gives feedback on hospital visits based on last seven days. “It is not as elaborate as our feedback system,” said Chavan. The PGI’s latest survey report showed that 80% of the patients were satisfied with the treatment. The rest were dissatisfied with the staff behaviour.
 
 The ministry’s web-based feedback asks if the patient is satisfied/dissatisfied with hospital services. The reasons for the dissatisfaction are given as: staff behaviour, cleanliness, cost of treatment, quality of treatment and other reasons. “Not everyone responds to text messages. One has to rush from one department to the other. If there are volunteers who ask these personally at the time of the hospital visit, the outcome can be better,” said a patient in the  .
 
 
