Summer season in Ooty is round the corner. The tourist destination is expected to receive at least 10 lakh visitors from across the country during May. Ahead of the season, Nilgiris superintendent of police   Rambha explains to TOI the measures taken by police to tackle tourist vehicles and regulate traffic within the small hill town with a radius of 3km? 

 As the tourist inflow to Ooty increases by the year, what are the measures taken by the police to tackle traffic and security?
 
 This year we have mobilised two traffic units each with 45 traffic police personnel. They will be assisting in regulating traffic in the town. Besides, during weekends, about 250 home guards will be stationed at traffic signals and other crowded areas from 8am to 10pm. One company (80 police personnel) of the Tamil Nadu Special Police (TSP) will be deputed at traffic signals and checkposts to assist in regulating traffic and the crowd.
 
 What about other towns in the Nilgiris?
 
 Traffic wardens have been roped in to assist police during the season. They are not police personnel. They are volunteers from public, but well-trained. They will assist police in Ooty, Coonoor, Kotagiri and Gudalur. 
 
 How do you explain that there had never been a complaint of any offence by tourists when nearly 10 lakh people visit the tourist retreat every year?
 
 Yes. That is a very good sign. But what we are forced to think is: Maybe small-time crimes like pick-pocketing and articles going missing did occur, but people refrain from approaching police as they fear the process could be cumbersome. This time, every tourist spot will have a “May I help you booth” and it will have our WhatsApp and toll-free numbers. In case of an offence, the tourist need not come to the police station; the tourist police themselves will assist them. 
 
 As at least 5,000 vehicles enter the town every day during the season. What are the measures taken to tackle these?
 
 This year, we have identified many parking spots at all the entrance points of the town. During May, tourist buses will not be allowed inside the town. Parking lots have been identified to park the tourist buses. TNSTC circuit buses will be available for commuting within the town. TNSTC will run at least 70 small buses. The Ooty-Coonoor-Mettupalayam Road will be made one way during weekends in May
 
 What action is being taken against pavement hawkers?
 
 That is the job of the municipality and the revenue department. We will assist them. However, we are going to remove all hawkers from footpaths this year. Footpaths are meant only for walking.
 
 Any advice to tourists visiting the Nilgiris?
 
 One request to all tourists is that they need to check online the places they want to visit in the Nilgiris. It will be easier for them to navigate and thus traffic jams will be minimised. Also, it is better to use circuit buses and keep their vehicles at their place of stay. Or by going on foot, tourists can enjoy Ooty more as it is a small town. 
 
 
