CHENNAI: A grand   resembling a   with lions standing guard and spread over 50,000 sqft will come up on the   beach front in memory of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa. The monument is set to cost the government Rs 50.8 crore, said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, who along with deputy chief minister O  , laid the foundation on Monday morning. An artist’s impression of the upcoming memorial, released by the government, suggests a wing-shaped phoenix-like structure with lions standing guard at the entrance. The design is meant to reflect Jayalalithaa’s persona, say leaders.

 The CM and his deputy sat through two-hour long vedic rituals along with party office-bearers and cadres before laying the foundation. “The memorial will be ready within a year,” said Palaniswami. He and Panneerselvam together placed the bricks on the ground located in the rear of the memorial of Jayalalithaa’s mentor and AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran. A few days after Jayalalithaa’s death on December 5, 2016, the EPS cabinet gave its nod for the memorial. But, the turmoil within AIADMK delayed the project.
 
 Opposition leaders meanwhile reiterated their condemnation of the move. DMK working president Stalin said Jayalalithaa had been proven guilty and was the prime accused in the disproportionate assets case. “This is against democratic norms,” he said in a party press release. PMK leader S Ramadoss said the government’s move to construct a memorial for a person convicted by court amounted to condoning corruption. 
 
 Officials said a four-member committee led by PWD engineer-in-chief, comprising members from school of architecture, Anna University and   zeroed in on the design after global competitive bidding. The 15m high, 30.5m long and 43m wide massive structure will come with polyurethane coating and glass panels. With IIT Madras being chosen as consultant, the memorial would be built on a par with international standards, officials said. A museum and knowledge park on an area of 8,555sqft each will come up on the northern and southern end. The entire design has been approved by the   and CMDA.
 
 The government expects that the memorial complex will get at least one lakh visitors on an average every day. “The curvilinear walls, photo gallery and wax statues of Jayalalithaa will be added features, while the audio visual section will play her motivational stories, inspirational quotes and speeches,” said an official. The complex spread over 9.09acres will be revamped with four pavilions on the granite footpath. About 110m-long covered footpath at the entrance will have solar panels to generate power. Water cascades and green belt will be developed, besides underground area for keeping footwear of visitors. The official said 10ft high lions would come up on 1.8m-high pedestals. 
 
 
