VIZIANAGARAM: One of the oldest Sanskrit colleges in the country, Maharajah’s Government Sanskrit   in Vizianagaram may soon have no students. Although ironic it may sound, the only student studying in the college is completing her BA (Sanskrit) in March and if the trend of no enrollers continues, the college might have to shut shop.

 Principal P Swapna  , who doubles up as the only teacher, said there are several reasons for non-enrolment of students. 
 
 “Apart from lack of employment opportunities, non-availability of lodging and boarding for students is a major stumbling block,” she pointed out. The principal said that many students are opting out as they do not have aptitude for Vedic traditions. 
 
 Rama Muni Heera Mekhala, the only student, said she would be leaving the college with a heavy heart. “This is an institution that has produced stalwarts like  , the first Sanskrit and Vedic scholar to win the title of mahamahopadhyaya in the 19th century, Surya Narayana Sastry, Peri Venkateswarula Avadhani and Vyakarana Alankara Chakravarthi Someswara Sarma. It’s sad I’m the only student,” she said.
 
 Established by the Gajapati rulers in 1860, rit colleges in the country, Maharajah’s Government Sanskrit College was run by   till 1957, after which it was handed over to the government. Today, the college, which offers a five-year integrated course in BA (Sanskrit) with English and computer science as other major subjects, has no takers.
 
 Many male students who enrolled in the last five-six years have opted out after learning basic Sanskrit. The principal said she approached local Brahmin families to provide support to the students. “The traditional way of Brahmins providing lodging and boarding for students is vanishing with increased urbanisation,” Hyndavi said.
 
 She said the college has a bleak future but claimed that it is the only government Sanskrit college in   Pradesh and Telangana. Ramanarayanam Veda Pathasala, established by a business group, is taking away male students as it provides lodging and boarding. 
 
 She said unless the course structure is redesigned to make it employment-friendly, the college will have to close down. Only the principal and the sweeper would remain. Given the lack of students, two junior assistants have already been sent on deputation to government colleges in   and Srungavarapukota.
 
 
