HYDERABAD: A 48-year-old cobbler, sleeping on the pavement, died while his son suffered minor injuries after a speeding Skoda Octavia ran over them at   near   in the early hours of Monday.

 Though the victims’ family in their complaint alleged the four occupants of the car, all girls, were drunk,   police claimed the girl at the wheel was sober.
 
 Around 12.30am on Monday, four engineering students — Ishanya Reddy, Harika Reddy, K Srujana and Arutha Bharathi — were returning home after partying at Up Lounge at   when Ishanya, a second year engineering student who was at the wheel, lost control over the vehicle and rammed into the footpath.
 
 As the vehicle was moving at high speed, it ran over the cobbler K Ashok before crashing into the DAE Colony compound wall. The car’s bumper and a tree fell on the right leg of Ashok’s son, Mahesh. Due to the impact of the high-speed collision, a portion of the compound wall collapsed too, police said. The girls, engineering students of Sreenidhi Institute of Science and Technology, got out of the car and tried to flee.
 
 However, locals immediately came and surrounded them. Later, they alerted police. The locals pulled out Mahesh from underneath the bumper.
 
 CCTV footage, which was hazy, captured the crash. Ashok was rushed to Gandhi hospital in an ambulance, but he was declared brought dead. The girls were taken to the Kushaiguda police station.
 
 Kushaiguda inspector   said breathalyser tests revealed that driver Ishanya and Srujana were sober, while Amrutha and Harika were drunk.
 
 “The woman driver claimed a dog suddenly came in front of the car. To avoid hitting the animal, she steered the car to left. In confusion, instead of hitting the brake, she slammed the accelerator resulting in the accident,” the inspector said. The CCTV footage, however, did not show any sight of a dog.
 
 Rachakonda ACP, P Krishna Murthy said a case was registered under Section 304-A (rash and negligent driving) of the IPC and the driver was arrested.
 
