NAGPUR: It happened 22 years ago, but the incident still stirs diabetologist Dr Sharad Pendsey. He recalls how the parents of two young diabetic sisters had to take the tough decision of seeing their daughters die.

 “Due to limited financial resources, they had to choose between nurturing two ill daughters and two other healthy children. As parents, how is it possible to make such decisions? I don’t know,” he says. 
 
 That marked the beginning of Pendsey’s journey towards serving poor patients diagnosed with juvenile diabetes. It is a type 1 diabetes condition whose cause is still unknown, and which can occur in kids as young as a year old to up to 18 years. There is no cure for the condition, apart from taking daily dose of insulin.
 
 Pendsey established Dream Trust in the extended part of his clinic in Dhantoli, where patients are given insulin vials free of cost every Wednesday and Thursday. Most of the children come from interior parts of Vidarbha,  ,   and other adjoining areas of Maharashtra. They are given a calculated stock of insulin vials that would last them about three months — four injections a day. 
 
 The trust also helps with syringes, blood glucose monitoring strips, travel grants, educational scholarships and annual health monitoring to all the children. Camps and educational programmes are held by a team comprising dietitians and educators.
 
 The Trust serves patients in the age group 2-20 years, with special consideration towards girls. “Even today, discrimination is visible when it comes to girls. Our objective is to encourage children with diabetes to become self-reliant and lead a life of pride and dignity,” says Pendsey.
 
 An ex-patient Jyoti, who was diagnosed with juvenile diabetes when she was 12, recently joined as a staff nurse at a government hospital. She expressed her gratitude by donating money from her first salary to the Trust.
 
 Neelam Thakre, a lecturer in Wani, Yavatmal, was only 14-year-old when she came first to the clinic. “We were in financial difficulty as my father had passed away two years before I was diagnosed with diabetes. After much struggle, I was lucky to be benefited by this initiative,” she says.
 
 The Trust which started with five girls at present has over 1,663 registered patients. It purchases over 600 insulin vials every 10 days. “The initiative has found love and support from not just patients but also donors who make this seemingly impossible project continue consistently,” says Pendsey.
 
 
