Bengaluru boasts a vibrant   culture and is home to several musicians belonging to various genres. Be it rock, pop, Indian classical, fusion — the city has earned its place in the hearts of music lovers and   respectively. But is that enough? On International   Day, we find out where jazz music stands in the midst of other music genres, what challenges artistes face and the future of this soulful genre…

 
 
 Many feel that Bengaluru, though home to several jazz artistes, still has a long way to go when it comes to jazz. “The jazz scene is small but it is growing, especially with a lot of interest from the youngsters these days. People like us have been playing for years, but it’s important that youngsters too get into this music form. Jazz is like a movement, where people across the world are passionate about it, they study it, learn it and perform,” says Jagadeesh MR, founder-composer Moonara and Whitefield Ensemble. Rex Rozario, a saxophone player from the city says that since there is less exposure, there aren’t many takers for jazz. “As far as jazz is concerned, there’s not much exposure to it. When youngsters see how jazz is perceived, they get influenced and move to other forms of music,” he adds.
 
 Similarly, S Raman Iyer, city-based saxophonist says that the city is inclined to either Bollywood music or Western pop. “Jazz requires a different set of listeners. It needs a little sophistication on their part to be able to appreciate this  . Though it is still growing, as an artiste, I get enough gigs to perform at. If I’m not playing at one of my own shows, I get asked by other bands to perform with them,” says Raman.
 
 
 
 Artistes feel one of the best things about jazz is the potential it has when combined with another form of music. “Jazz has been a part of other genres for a while now. And 40 years ago, Miles Davis showed that jazz could move into rock, which is now known as jazz rock. Jazz is open, it means freedom to musicians, to be able to experiment with newer forms of music all the time,” says Jagadeesh. Raman, too feels that as a music genre in itself, it has a lot of potential. “If there is fusion, there is lot of potential for jazz. It’s an intricate art form, a bespoke form that works well with other music genres,” adds Raman.
 
 
 
 A lack of schools teaching jazz and fewer events and venues promoting this art form is a cause of concern. “There need to be more events promoting jazz. We shouldn’t wait for International Jazz Day to celebrate this form of music; it should be done on a regular basis. We should also encourage other musicians to come and jam, especially younger musicians, who are interested in it,” says Anand Ramakrishna, a saxophonist.
 
 Similarly, Raman says that there needs to be a different organisational structure, where people will be attracted to come and see artistes perform. “There are several takers for jazz at corporate events and weddings. But we need venues and event managers, who will specifically promote jazz,” says Raman. There is plenty of talent but no room to perform. “Earlier we used to have events like Jazz yatra, where artistes from across the world used to come and perform in Bengaluru. There need to be more such events. The talent is there but without venues, where will the artistes perform? Competitions too need to be encouraged. You have plenty of competitions for rock music that are held across the country, but none for jazz,” says Rex.
 
 
 
 Jazz can easily find its ground in the city, even though there are other music genres that have a sizeable following. “Jazz and other music forms coexist side by side. There are several rock musicians, who like to play jazz. There is genuine interest in jazz and that’s why it continues to grow,” says Jagadeesh.
 
 Artistes feel that though it used to be known as grandpa music, there’s a lot of room for it to grow in a city like Bengaluru. “People earlier used to make fun by calling jazz grandpa music, but it’s not the case anymore. There are several people who are showing interest in it. Jazz is a little underground but there is plenty of potential for it to grow over the years. It may take a while though but there will be some form of recognition for musicians in this field in the future,” Anand sums up.
 
 
