PATNA: From solving sample and model papers to clearing concept with their teachers, students to appear in Class X and XII exams are leaving no stone unturned to get good marks. As only few weeks are left for the matriculation (Class X) and Intermediate (Class XII) examinations of the  , the experts advise the kids to be positive and confident and solve model papers.

 “With the new exam pattern, students have a good chance to score more than 90% in 50-marks objective type questions in each paper,” said  , an expert in chemistry. He advised the students to attempt all questions in objective section as there is no negative marking. “Cover your entire course material instead of losing sleep over what your results will be,” said Singh.
 
 Physics teacher S B   asked the students to stock up on as many sample and model papers as they can and practise at least one set per day. “I suggest students to make sure that they take these tests in conditions similar to an actual  . The paper should be finished within the stipulated time,” he said.
 
 “Calculus covers a large portion in Class XII mathematics, which contains 44 marks. If the students understand this portion, they can easily score well. For Class X, trigonometry and algebra are important topics. Only practice will help students to fetch good marks in this subject. Students still have ample time to score above 90% in board exams if they solve and practise the model papers uploaded by the board to its website,” said mathematics teacher Ashutosh Kumar.
 
 Biology teacher Priyanka Singh said the subject is more about diagrams than lengthy answers. “In 15 minutes reading time, students can select the right answers of objective questions and choose the questions which they will attempt. Some students attempt all questions to get more marks, but this act will only reduce their score. Students must draw the diagram neatly and don’t forget to label it. The important points should be underlined as it shows how much kid knows,” she said.
 
 Name and year should be memorized in history, said  , a history teacher. “I believe most of the questions in this subject will be based on timeline. To memorize the dates, students must create a table along with their respective incidents and name of the rulers, kings and viceroys,” he said.
 
 
