 was getting ready for a dream dinner date with her husband Boney Kapoor in Dubai before she reportedly suffered a cardiac arrest at their   room and died, reported the Khaleej Times. Quoting a source close to the family, the daily said Kapoor flew back from Mumbai and went to her room at the Jumeirah Emirates Towers Hotel around 5.30pm to “surprise” her with dinner. He woke her up and the couple chatted for about 15 minutes before he invited her for a dinner.

 The report said that she then went to the washroom. After 15 minutes passed and she did not come out, Kapoor knocked on the door to check on her. When he got no response, he forced open the door to find her lying motionless in the bathtub full of water. “He tried to revive her and when he could not, he called a friend of his. After that, he informed the police at 9pm,” said the source.
 
 The police and paramedics rushed to the site, but she was pronounced  . Later, her body was taken to the General Department of Forensic Medicine for an autopsy.
 
 Sridevi, Boney Kapoor, and younger daughter Khushi Kapoor were in Ras Al Khaimah to celebrate the wedding of her nephew Mohit Marwah. Her brother-in-law Sanjay Kapoor told Khaleej Times: “We are still in a state of shock and are heartbroken ... She had no history of heart disease.”
 
 The hotel refused to comment on the matter and an employee said the matter was under police investigation, the report said.
 
 The autopsy was completed on Sunday evening and the body is expected to be flown back to Mumbai on Monday. India’s consulate general in Dubai tweeted it “is in constant touch with high authorities of Dubai police to expedite formalities so that the mortal remains can depart for India ASAP (as soon as possible).”
 
 Meanwhile in Mumbai, crowds started swelling outside the actor’s home in Green Acres in Lokhandwala Complex, Andheri, prompting traffic police to cordon off part of the road. Many were expected to wait till the family returned to Mumbai with the body, for a cremation likely to be held in Juhu on Monday.
 
 The Kapoors, including patriarch Surinder and sons Boney and Anil, own multiple houses in the Lokhandwala-Juhu precinct. Mourners led by actress Rekha arrived to pay condolence at Anil Kapoor's residence.
 
 Around 50 policemen from Oshiwara led by senior inspector Subhash Khanvilkar provided bandobast at Green Acres. Police presence was increased after women TV reporters complained of being jostled by male onlookers. A couple of cameramen said their phones and wallets were lost in the melee but they did not file a complaint.
 
 
