KOZHIKODE: With the ongoing   coinciding with the annual cross-border summer   of wild animals from the Karnataka and   part of the   to   (WWS), the census teams are witnessing high concentration of wildlife at the sanctuary. The main participants in the seasonal migration are elephants, Sambar deer and bisons. 

 Experts say this cross-border inflow of wildlife will have an impact on the census that also collects field data of co-predators, prey and mega herbivores such as elephant and gaur, apart from tigers. The ensuing three months will see the highest concentration of wildlife in the 344 sq km sanctuary as it swells with animals from adjacent national parks of Nagarahole and Bandipur in Karnataka and Mudumalai in Tamil Nadu looking for water and fodder.
 
 The survey teams have reported two direct tiger sightings, apart from elephant sightings from almost all the 23 blocks at WWS. “The wildlife density has increased due to the annual summer migration. Animals come here as there is enough water and fodder compared to other nearby sanctuaries across the border,” said WWS warden N T Sajan.
 
 Conservation biologist at WWS O Vishnu said that as the census was taking place at a time when the sanctuary was swelling with wildlife, it will surely capture the species richness at WWS. The animal migration to WWS in summer is a major wildlife event in the entire Nilgiri biosphere reserve spread over 2,183 sq km.
 
 “The census teams are upbeat over their sign survey sightings during the past three days. The wildlife and prey density here could surprise many. Apart from two direct tiger sightings in block-21 and block-22, workers engaged in laying fire lines have reported multiple tiger sightings,” he added.
 
 Vishnu said that survey teams are taking additional precautions. 
 
 “We have deployed one more additional staff to the three-member teams in each block. They have been asked to carry walkie-talkies,” he added.
 
 According to experts the elephant population at WWS, estimated to be around 700, will surge by another 30% during the migration period which will end by the advent of monsoon. The first phase of the tiger survey – the eight-day protocol – will complete by February 9.
 
 
