HYDERABAD: After staying put an entire day amid high drama in Hyderabad,   and JD(S) MLAs from   left for Bengaluru on Friday night in the three buses they had arrived in earlier in the morning. They have to be present for the floor test in the assembly at 4pm on Saturday.

 
 At the   star hotel where over 70 Congress MLAs stayed, former CM   was elected legislature party leader in the evening. Siddaramaiah and HD Kumaraswamy had arrived around 5pm on special flights.
 
 While Siddaramaiah returned to Bengaluru in the night by a chartered flight, Kumaraswamy left in another chartered flight around 10pm with his confidants, including son Nikhil Gowda.
 
 In all, 125 rooms were booked in the hotel and 60 rooms at another star hotel at Madhapur and Congress sources said the bookings were made in the name of a marriage party so that BJP could not zero in on their location. Senior Congress MLA DK Shivakumar, the man shepherding the legislators, and Karnataka Congress chief G Parameshwara, checked into the Banjara Hills star hotel along with other Congress MLAs. Both Congress and JD(S) claimed they were present in full strength, 78 and 37 members, respectively. The actual numbers were 71 MLAs on the Congress side and 35 on the JD(S) side.
 
 The road trip out of Bengaluru was necessitated after the chartered flights they had booked to fly to Kochi in Kerala got nixed due to alleged lack of permission from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation. Subsequently, they proceeded by road in three buses to Puducherry, a Congress-ruled state. But later, they changed their destination to Hyderabad.
 
 Official sources in   said while the buses were passing through its territory, HD Kumaraswamy telephoned CM N Chandrababu Naidu and sought his help. Even though Naidu welcomed them and offered safe locations in Vijayawada, Guntur and Visakhapatnam, they decided to proceed to Hyderabad after they were advised that Hyderabad is better since it has direct flights to Bengaluru in case they had to return in a hurry.
 
 Sources said JD(S) president HD Deve Gowda then called Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao and sought help for the Congress and JD(S) MLAs. Under protection of Telangana police, the Congress legislators checked into the hotel between 9am and 11am while JD(S) MLAs checked into the hotel in Madhapur at 10.15am.
 
 High drama prevailed at the Banjara Hills hotel. Amid rumours that men representing BJP’s Janardhana Reddy had checked into another star hotel in the vicinity and were luring the herded MLAs with fabulous offers, security at the hotel was stepped up and the legislators were confined to their floors and rooms. At one point, Congress teams rounded up one person inside the hotel on suspicion that he was Reddy’s man but it was a false alarm.
 
