HYDERABAD: The University of Hyderabad (UoH) has succeeded where the 100-year-old   failed. After expressing its inability to host the 105th session of the prestigious   (ISC), Osmania University did not bother to take care of the  , who had finalised their plans for the   scheduled for January 3-7.

 Taking advantage of the visit of at least two Nobel laureates to Hyderabad despite the ISC-105 being put off, the UoH had invited them to its campus to deliver lectures in their respective areas of research. Hundreds of students of UoH had benefited from the visit of Prof Hiroshi Amano of Japan on Wednesday. Another Nobel laureate Prof Erwin Neher of Germany will deliver a lecture at UoH on Thursday.
 
 Not to lag behind, the citybased Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), which is celebrating its platinum jubilee, has also arranged a lecture by Prof Amano on its campus on Thursday. Ironically, Osmania University, which is one of the major universities in Asia, did not deem it fit to invite the Nobel laureates, who were originally scheduled to participate in the ISC-105 on its campus. OU insiders point out that had the university authorities arranged distinguished lectures by Prof Amano and Prof Neher, it would have served as a damage control exercise. Osmania University has lost its face in the scientific and academic community by withdrawing at the eleventh hour from hosting the ISC, an opportunity it got after a gap of two decades.
 
 Prof Ada E Yonath of Israel and Gerd Binnig of Germany had also confirmed their participation in the ISC-105 but cancelled the Hyderabad visit after the annual scientific event was put off to March and venue shifted to Manipur. However, Prof Amano and Prof Neher had kept their dates with Hyderabad.
 
 Prof Amano is the co-winner of the Nobel Prize in 2014 for inventing the blue LEDs. There were green and red LEDs but for an LED lamp to emit white light it requires blue LEDs. It took several decades for the development of blue LEDs after the invention of red and green LEDs. The combination of these three LEDs result in the white LED lamps, which are now being used in Hyderabad and all over the world.
 
 If Telangana and Andhra Pradesh could overcome power-cuts that plagued the Telugu states for decades, it was due to the invention of Prof Amano. An LED lamp consumes only five per cent of the electricity utilised by an incandescent lamp. It also lasts 100 times more than the incandescent lamp.
 
 Several students of University of Hyderabad posed for selfies with Prof Amano and posted comments on social media about the rare scientific insight they got into the world of LEDs.
 
 On the other hand, Osmania University students were deprived of the rare opportunity – the second successive loss after the postponement of the Indian Science Congress-105, OU insiders rue.
 
 
