For the  , led by Datta Padsalgikar, tackling the tribal farmers’ long march was a major challenge. While the march started from Nashik on March 6 with less than 3,000 tribals, both the political leadership and state intelligence did not realize the massive response to the agitation. When the march was to enter Mumbai, over 35,000 tribals had joined the movement to press their demand for allotment of land under the Forest Rights Act, 2006.

 Both CM Devendra   and Padsalgikar swung into action to ensure there was no violence and the board exams were not disturbed. A high-level IPS officials’ team, led by two additional commissioners, was set up to negotiate with the agitating tribals. The team reached Anand Nagar, the entry point on Eastern Express Highway, took note of the tribals’ demands and were constantly in touch with Padsalgikar, who briefed the CM. It was proposed that the tribals move to Somaiya ground. Accordingly, they reached there at midnight. The tribals were to march to   the next morning, but as it would have blocked roads and resulted in hardship to students, the team asked them to reach Azad Maidan before 4am. Following intervention of water resources minister Girish Mahajan, the disciplined tribals agreed. By evening, all tribals quietly left for Nashik after Fadnavis assured them that their issues will be resolved within six months.
 
 Records show that in November 2016, the tribal development department had promulgated a specific order saying lands would be transferred in the name of tribals within six months. Fadnavis will now have to fix the responsibility over the department’s failure to implement the decision. While the tribals’ march was incident free, it wasn’t the case on November 23, 1994, when Gowari community members marched to the Nagpur council hall to press for their demand for reservation. As no cabinet member or high-ranking police officer was deputed to negotiate with them, 114 people died in a stampede after police resorted to lathi charge to disperse the mob.
 
 
 
 
 Even as there was hue and cry over abuse of power by food and civil supplies minister   following a sudden spurt in tur dal price, Lokayukta Justice M L Tahaliyani gave him a clean chit, saying, it was a collective decision. “I am not inclined to initiate investigation against the minister,” Justice Tahaliyani observed. Following spiraling tur dal prices, complaints were lodged with the Lokayukta claiming the food and civil supplies department failed to issue orders under the Essential Commodities Act to curb hoarding of pulses, especially tur dal, between April and November 2015, benefitting traders. The Lokayukta found that the proposal for lifting the ban had moved from the food, civil supplies and consumer protection department to the marketing department and was then approved by the CM. The Lokayukta felt it was a policy decision of the government and it can’t be said that Bapat had acted with some ulterior motive to benefit traders, but it is possible that they may have misused the liberty.
 
