Tirunelveli: The 38 Narikurava families who have been down on their luck for long without having a solid roof over their heads, have a place to call their own. 
 
 Five houses are ready for the families to move in, and district collector Sandeep Nanduri has already handed over the keys to families at Therku Vagaikulam village in Manur Block here on Wednesday. The finishing is yet to be done for the rest of the houses, with the officials facing a race against time to complete it by mid-March. 
  
 Made of threadbare tarpaulin and plastic banners, their ramshackle tents were put up with the support of three to four bamboo sticks. Though they provided them the necessary cover from scorching sun during summer, it did not come much of a help during the monsoon. 
  
 M Karunakaran, then district collector, handed over pattas to these families. With project receiving funds from the government interest fund, the construction kicked off in March 2017. SInce then, the families have been living in tents close to the construction site at Therku Vagaikulam. 
  
 These houses were built measuring 300 square feet each in size and are similar to those constructed under Green House scheme, having a veranda, hall, bedroom, kitchen and an attached toilet. The total estimated cost of the houses is Rs 1.14 crore. Pending minor works include completion of the toilet, leach pit connectivity and painting. 
  
 “We will soon be laying a proper road to the hillock from the Therku Vagaikulam Main Road, for which Rs 10.15 lakh has been earmarked. We have allotted Rs 12.18 lakh to cut a concrete road connecting the 38 houses in the colony and for the drainage work. The works are likely to begin in March,” an official said. 
  
 For the families, the news could not have come at a better time as they said it was the moment they have been eagerly waiting for until now. “It is the great moment for us. We have been leading a nomadic life without having fixed abode. Most of our lives, we stayed only in the tents near the Alagiyapandiyapuram Bus Stand, a couple of kilometres from Therku Vagaikulam,” said C Jothi, 21, one of the beneficiaries. 
  
 N Chandru, 56, who received a house, could not contain his happiness having received a solid structure to live in. “Now we too have a house. Our children will be able to go to school regularly and complete higher education. This will prevent child marriages that are predominant in our community,” he said. 
  
  
