Bhopal: With the growing trend of tribal   marrying non-tribal men, a mahapanchayat in Sheopur has imposed a blanket ban on all such marriages.

 “Those women who marry non-tribals will be ostracised from the society. Children of such couples will not be treated as tribals”, announced the mahapanchayat gathering that included 85 villages, and was held at   village of Sheopur district on Monday.
 
 Vinod Languria, the state general secretary of   Vikas Parishad — a non-government organisation, who headed the gathering — said of late there is a growing trend that has been witnessed in the Chambal region inhabited by Sahariyas. More and more non-tribals are getting married to Sahariya women to avail benefits that are reserved for Scheduled Tribes. After marriage, they also grab tribal land, which otherwise is far from possible.
 
 “This is happening rampantly in Karhal block of Sheopur district, where many non-tribal men have two wives, and invariably one of them belongs from the Sahariya tribe”, Languria said.
 
 Languria said cases of encroaching upon government land by such couples are also on the rise.
 
 Incidentally, a similar mahapanchayat had imposed a ban on the use of mobile phones by tribal women in Sheopur last week.
 
 “The mobile phone is enabling them to contact with the outside world, leading to unwanted relationships. Sahariya women are innocent and do not realise that the mobile phone is being used to trap them”, Sitaram, a Sahariya tribal who had contested election on a BJP ticket told TOI.
 
 “If they want to talk to someone over the phone, they can always use the mobile of their husband or other family members”, Sitaram said.
 
 District collector Pannalal Solanki attributed the mahapanchayat diktat to “increasing awareness” among the tribal population.
 
 Shabnam Afgani, an activist of  , an NGO working for the betterment of tribals said, “Non-tribals who are marrying tribal women belong to this district only. They are not coming from outside”.
 
 The mahapanchayat said, “Now, relationship between tribal women with non-tribals will not be tolerated and all such women and their children would be thrown out of the community.”
 
 
