Though he has worked and lived in Delhi,   is getting to explore a lot more of the city now, thanks to his film shoots. After films like ' ' and ' ', the actor is again shooting in Delhi for Junglee Pictures’ 'Badhaai Ho', which is being directed by  . The film’s team started shooting in different locations in   a few days back.

  
  The actor is shooting for Badhaai Ho in Moti Bagh, among other Delhi locations
 
 We caught up with the team when they were shooting at Nanakpura market, near Moti Bagh, recently. The location will be shown as the area where Ayushmann’s character hangs out with his friends. A makeshift paanwala and chaiwala stalls were created in the market to show the hangout adda. “It’s like homecoming for me. This is my fourth film in Delhi, and each and every time I am here I rediscover the city. I am playing a Delhi guy who is desi at home and urban in his workplace. 
 
  
  Makeshift paanwala and chaiwala stalls were created at the Nanakpura market area where Ayushmann’s character hangs out with his friends in the film
 
 Ayushmann adds, "He is very polished when he is at work, but extremely desi at home, so I have to practice speaking in different accents. The Delhi accent is an amalgam of Punjabi, Haryanvi and UP. I am not playing a Punjabi in the film, I am playing a guy from Meerut."
 The actor has spent two years in Delhi while he was working as a radio jockey. "We have a house in Greater Kailash. I have stayed in Delhi 12 years back and used to go out a lot then. Now, I only get to explore the city when I am shooting at different locations, which are not very hip and happening because the films that I do are realistic, so these places are rustic and real," he added.
 
  
  Behind the camera: Director Amit Sharma was seen explaining the scene to Ayushmann and other actors on the set
 
 For the residents of Nanakpura, it was quite unusual to witness a shoot. While many stood at their windows for hours, watching the shoot, some tried to sneak in just see Ayushmann. "I have been waiting patiently since morning. First I wanted to just see Ayushmann, but now that I have seen him, I am hoping that I might get lucky enough to click a selfie with him. Hamare area mein shoot kar rahein hain, selfie toh de hi denge,” said a school student, who decided to bunk his school when he got to know about the shooting.
 For others, watching the shoot was about learning how hard the actors work. "We all think that acting is the easiest job in the world, par aaj pata chala kitni mehnat karni padti hai inn logon ko. It is not something that everyone can do," said Anil Arora, the owner of a shop at the market.
 
  
  Ayushmann during the shoot of the film
 
 Ayushmann’s bother   was a surprise guest on the set, when he dropped in for a few minutes to meet his elder brother.
 A crew member informed us that the film’s team will be shooting in Delhi for a month. "The film is based in Delhi and we have a month-long schedule here. We have selected 18-19 locations for shoot after doing recce for months. We were essentially looking for areas which haven’t been seen much on screen, to bring out the character of the city," a crew member told us.
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
