KOLKATA: Four-and-half-year-old   Dey, who passed away at  ,  , on January 17 leading to allegations of medical negligence, died due to the effects of asphyxia, according to the postmortem report. The report, released on Friday, also mentioned ‘petechial haemorrhagic spots of variable sizes in the lungs and the left surface of the heart’. While Oyetri’s family claimed that the report proved medical negli-gence, some experts pointed out the child might have choked due to lack of oxygen and not due to wrong medication.

 The first hearing of the case took place at West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission office on Friday. The panel asked   and the complainants to file affidavits by Wednesday, when the next hearing takes place.
 
 
  
 
 Oyetri had been intravenously given Augmentin — an antibiotic used to treat bacterial infection — shortly before her death. It could have been responsible for a sudden cardiac arrest only if the drug was administered without a skin test to check for allergic reactions, said  , consultant at AMRI Hospitals. “Those allergic to Augmentin may suffer a swelling in the larynx, choking the airways and leading to asphyxia. Petechial haemorrhage, on the other hand, could result from a disseminated intravascular coagulation, which is triggered by sepsis or an infection in the bloodstream. It could also occur as an aftermath of asphyxia,” said Saha.
 
 It is unlikely that the child was given the drug without a skin test, felt Shyamasish Banerjee, consultant at  . “Often, children tend to choke on their own vomit in their sleep. The petechial haemorrhage is more likely to be the result of asphyxia rather than the other way round,” he said.
 
 A consultant at a city private hospital agreed. “It seems the child was given Augmentin for an upper respiratory tract infection. A skin test must have been done because that is the norm. But asphyxia might also result from lack of oxygen. The girl’s family has alleged that she was not given oxygen and it needs to be investigated. But petechial haemorrhage is invariably the result of asphyxia,” he said.
 
 He added that lack of oxygen in the body results in hypoxia and triggers a cardiac arrest. “This seems to be the most likely reason for her death,” he observed. AMRI Hospital, on the hand, refused to comment. “We have just received the postmortem report, which will be handed over to our internal enquiry committee. Our report won’t be complete till the enquiry committee factors in the observations in the report,” said Rupak Barua, CEO, AMRI Hospitals.
 
 
