NEW DELHI: The representation of OBCs or other backward classes in the subordinate judiciary of 11 states that responded to the Centre’s request for details adds up to just 12%, considerably lower than the estimates of the community’s share in India’s population.

 Data received by the law ministry showed that Dalits comprised less than 14% of judges in the subordinate judiciary, including district courts, and tribals about 12%. The percentage for Dalits was under their share of the population, which stands at 16.6% according to the 2011 census. Tribal representation is a little higher than the 8.6% of India’s population they account for. 
 
 
  
 The degree of representation that Dalits and tribals have achieved in subordinate courts seems to be the result of affirmative action and the less encouraging numbers for the OBCs clearly indicate inadequate recruitment. Without quotas, even if unevenly applied across states, the numbers of SCs/STs would likely plummet.
 
 The information was made available by high courts after the government, last November, wrote to the registrars general of all the 24 HCs requesting data on reservation provided to scheduled castes, scheduled tribes, OBCs and women, and their current working strength. Not all states have a reservation policy in subordinate judiciary. While some have quotas for state judicial services, which appoint judges in subordinate courts, many don’t have reservation in higher judicial service or district courts. In some states, there is reservation for SCs, STs and OBCs in the higher judicial service but it is a small fraction of the total recruitment.
 
 The subordinate judiciary, including district courts, currently has a working strength of 16,693 judges. The representation of Dalits, tribals and OBCs in the report was worked out on the basis of a working strength of about 3,973 judges in 11 states’ subordinate judiciary. The actual working strength of the subordinate judiciary may be higher in these states as the entire working strength of district judges has not been accounted for. The data is available for only where reservation is implemented. The representation of women in the judiciary is another important segment the government is looking at. TOI had earlier reported that women comprise 28% of the total working strength of the subordinate judiciary. However, they account for a mere 10% in 24 HCs and 4% in the Supreme Court.
 
 Data on SCs/STs and OBCs in subordinate courts for some larger states like UP,   and   was not available, while that provided by a few others lacked clarity. The findings are significant considering that sections of the political class have been demanding higher representation of women and deprived segments in the judiciary to make it more equitable and representative of the demography.
 
