LUDHIANA: Nearly 450 PSEB-affiliated private schools in Ludhiana district will be closed on Monday in protest against the education boards’s decision to allot government schools as exam centres for Class X and XII.

 Earlier, students appeared for Class X and XII exams at their schools only. However, this year, Punjab School Education Board announced that centres of private schools will be in government schools and vice-versa. The schools will be closed as part of a statw-wide shutdown call given for 4,500 schools affiliated to the board, said  , the   of PSEB-Affiliated Schools, Punjab, on Saturday. 
 The association has cited lack of facilities at government schools for their opposition. Sharma said such schools lacked desks and clean drinking water. “Also, government schools are located far away and students, especially girls, will be hassled,” he said.
 
 The shutdown call has come after the government ignored pleas made by private schools. Though many association wrote to education minister Aruna Chaudhary and secretary (education)  , the decision was not changed.
 
 The district secretary of Recognised and Affiliated School Association (RASA),  , said students were already under stress over exams and the decision to have other examination centres had added to it. “The exams are to start from February 28, but the centres are yet to be finalised,” he said.   claimed that the decision would affect about 1 lakh students. “Arranging transport for students, and ensuring they reach back home safe, will be difficult,” he said. He warned of “intensifying” the protest if the decision was not rolled back.
 
 Education minister Aruna Chaudhary said the decision to have government schools as centres for private schools will not change, even though "private aschools are trying to pressure the department". "As far as the distance of examination centres is concerned, departments have been asked to increase the numbers of centres, so that students are not hassled. If talk about desks, washrooms and drinking water, government schools also have all these facilities. When the board has decide to change centres, it will also ensure that all facilities are provided to students," she said.
 
