SANTINIKETAN: Visva-Bharati acting vice-chancellor Sabujkali Sen said on Thursday that from next year, the university will hold convocations annually.

 
  
  
 
 This year’s convocation, scheduled on Friday, is happening after a gap of five years. It will also be 10 years since the Prime Minister, who holds the chair of chancellor, will be present to award degrees. These gaps won’t be there anymore, the acting VC said.
 
  was the last PM to have attented the convocation, in 2008.
 
 “Ours is the only central university that has the PM as its acharya(chancellor). The others have the President as the acharya. In a recent communique to central universities, the President had said that it is mandatory for all to hold annual convocations. We will try to follow that from now on,” Sen said.
 
 This time, chief minister Mamata Banerjee will share the convocation dais with PM   and Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina. Siddhartha Shankar Ray was the last CM to attend the VB convocation. In the past, Banerjee had attended the convocation as MP, when   was Prime Minister.
 
 All VVIP dignitaries will participate in the convocation procession and walk about 50m before climbing on to the dais. While all other traditions of the convocation, such as songs from the Vedas and Upanishads, and ashram sangeet, will be performed, the ritual of awarding the symbolic chhatim leaf (saptaparni) to every successful student will not happen this time. The PM will, however, award a chhatim leaf to the VC to commemorate the occasion and as a symbolic gesture.
 
 After the one-and-a-half-hour convocation that will start at 10.30am, Modi, Hasina, Banerjee and Governor Keshari Nath Tripathi will go to inaugurate the Bangladesh Bhavana. This complex has been set up with funds from the Bangladeshi government, and will be inaugurated by Hasina. “Just like we have the Cheena Bhavana for Chinese studies and   for Japanese studies, we will now have the Bangladesh Bhavana, which will enhance the cultural and educational ties between the two countries,” Sen said. Ministers of foreign affairs, culture and education will be present at the inauguration.
 
 A special publication, ‘Bangladesh, Thakurbangsha O Rabindranath’, will be released on the occasion. This charts the dates of Tagore’s Bangladesh visits, when he was taking care of his family’s zamindari.
 
