Chennai: In what appears to be another irregularity in appointments at the University of Madras, the interview marks of a   of Vaishnavism appointed in 2014 have been increased by clear overwriting which tilted the scales in his favour.

 The document, a copy of which is with TOI, shows that Professor K Dayanidhi, currently head-in-charge of the Vaishnavism department, scored 69 marks in the interview. A closer look at the marksheet shows that he was initially awarded no marks under the sub-head ‘research publications’. However, this was altered to ‘10’ and the total overwritten from ‘59’ to ‘69’, the highest among the seven candidates who applied. In violation of government convention, no official has signed on the column where the overwriting was made.
 
 Also, his application form accessed by TOI shows that he did not have any publications at the time and hence was given no marks for that sub-head. The documents were sourced by S Anuradha, a resident of Coimbatore.
 
 The appointment was made during the tenure of the previous vice-chancellor R Thandavan. It rocked the syndicate when it was brought up for approval, with four members reportedly tendering their dissent. Dayanidhi’s appointment was confirmed by the university in November 2016.
 
 In the same interview, A Murugesan has secured 62 marks, which is three more than what Dayanidhi’s score ought to have been. Moreover, three sub-heads have been left blank for another candidate LC Thirumalai, nor is a ‘-’ sign entered in those columns to indicate no marks. 
 
 Another controversy over Dayanidhi’s appointment is that he has not passed Class X and XII till date. He did the Prak-shiromani and Vyakarana Shiromani traditional courses before doing an MA in Sanskrit.
 
 RTI replies by the University of Madras and Madras Sanskrit College show that these courses are not equivalent to Class X or XII public exams.
 
 When contacted by TOI, Dayanidhi said these were traditional courses and there were government orders to show their equivalence. However, the university does not accept this degree, as shown by its RTI reply.
 
 As for the marksheet, he accepted that he did not have any books or publications in national and international journals then, but said he was unaware of the overwriting in the document. “I did not lobby with anyone for the post,” he said.
 
 University officials have been apprised of these documents and said that they would inquire into the issue.
 
 
