AHMEDABAD: In 2007, the   has launched an English learning programme called   (  through Proficiency in English) which trained some 3 lakh learners of various ages. It seems the programme has not reached the offices of the social justice and empowerment department. According to the state government, nomadic tribes and de-notified tribes are ‘breeds’. 

 The usage of the word ‘breed’ is particularly shocking, considering that this is the social justice department’s specialized area of work. The usage may in the best-case scenario be seen as a language error, where the department cannot distinguish a tribe from a breed. In the worst-case scenario, it alludes to a eugenicist mindset, which sees members of tribes in terms of traits and breeding. This is beside the other aspect of the error, calling ‘nomadic tribes’ ‘notified’, which reeks of incompetence.
 
 The website of the director of developing castes, under the social justice and empowerment department, calls nomadic and de-notified tribes in   “notified breeds” and “de-notified breeds”. The home page of the website has a “List of De-notified Breeds” and a “List of Notified Breed”. 
 
 According to the  , “breed is a particular type of animal that has been developed by people in a controlled way, especially a type of dog, cat or farm animal.”
 
 Whereas, ‘tribe’ means “a group of people of the same race, and with the same customs, language and religion, living in a particular area”.
 
 The new social justice and empowerment minister, Ishwar Parmar, told TOI, “I am not aware of the mistake as I am yet to take charge. Today is the inauspicious day of Chaudas. I will first pay obeisance to Goddess Amba on the auspicious occasion of the full moon day and only then will I take charge and resolve the issue.”
 
 Mittal Patel, an activist working with Nomadic Tribes (NTs) and De-notified Tribes (DNTs), said, “I believe they cannot translate from Gujarati to English properly. This should not have happened and the government should have used the proper word ‘tribe’.”
 
 Naran Raval, an activist from the tribal community, held the same views and said that the state government has erred in calling tribes ‘breeds’. 
 
 Kamal Dayani, principal secretary of the social justice and empowerment department, was unavailable for comment despite several attempts.
 
 This is the third major goof-up by a state government website since 2016. Earlier, the names of freedom fighters and their death anniversaries were wrong, while in other cases definitions and policies were wrongly cited. 
 
 
