PUNE: Shruti Vinod Shrikhande made Pune proud as she topped the girls nationally in the Combined Defence Services (CDS) examination conducted by the Union Public Service Commission. 

 The final results of the CDS Examination (I) — written examination and interview for entry to the Officers Training Academy (OTA), Chennai — were released by the UPSC on Thursday on its website. Daughter of Brigadier Vinod Shrikhande, Shruti is a student of ILS Law College and an alumnus of the Army Public School. 
 
 “It was my childhood dream to become an army officer. I was able to achieve this feat with support from my parents and teachers,” said Shruti, who has been keeping updated about current affairs for the past six-seven months and dedicating at least seven hours a day to prepare for the exam. 
 
 “A basic understanding of current affairs by reading newspapers and other magazines is an important task for students preparing for such competitive exams. I had prepared my schedule and followed it diligently. I was simultaneously preparing for the law degree course and was active in college activities during the CDS exam preparation period,” she said.
 
 Shruti would also solve mock question papers to crack the exam and took help from her father on ways to face interviews. She said it was a conscious decision to study law, as it helped her develop skills such as public speaking, debating, forming an opinion about the current political issues in the country through the moot court events.
 
 Shruti will be headed for a year-long training in Chennai, before proceeding on a posting. 
 
 The exam was held for admission to OTA 107th short service commission course (for men) and 21st short service commission (women, non-technical) course, commencing in April, 2018. Overall 232 candidates have qualified in the country in the final exam. Among boys, Nipurn Datta has topped the exam. 
 
 Kiran Raut, an MSC (part II) student from Sir Parshurambhau College, stood fourth in the women’s category. “I decided to go for defence services when I was selected for the Republic Day parade in New Delhi as a Class XI student,” said Raut, who cleared the exam in first attempt.
 
 
