Mumbai: The old guard of blue-chip foreign education for Indians, Britain, has been upstaged by an unlikely rival: China. Fresh data show there are more Indian students here in the Asian neighbourhood than in the United Kingdom.

 There are 18,171 Indian students in China, a majority of them studying medicine, against 18,015 in the UK, the numbers for 2016 reveal.
 
 Though Indian students have been going to China for medical courses in significant numbers since 2010-11, experts attribute the latest spike in enrollment to the “NEET mess” (the change in medical admission criteria in India). It saw more medical aspirants flocking to China after struggling to clear the centralized admission test. And now there is another preferential change: many Indian students are looking to pursue engineering there too.
 
 “It is a cost-effective destination, its medical degrees are recognized by the Medical Council of India, and the course is conducted in English,” says study abroad expert Pratibha Jain. “China was a natural choice for most Indians who did not clear NEET as there is a language issue in the case of Russia. Also, there is a popular perception that doctor graduates from Russia find it difficult to clear the MCI qualifying exam to practise in India.”
 
 The average tuition fee for a Chinese medical course is between $2,000 and $3,000 annually, plus $1,000 to cover living expenses. In 2015, the number of Indian students in China was over 13,500 as India ranked among the top 10 nations sending the highest number of students to Chinese varsities.
 
 In fact, China has now become the third most favoured nation of international students after US and UK. It has also paced up as a host destination and is the fifth-ranked choice for Indians leaving the shores for an education. UK, on the other hand, had slid in popularity after it did away with post-education work visas.
 
 “Apart from the fact that China is not as expensive as the West, they offer jobs and more and more Chinese universities are finding a place in global rankings, a sign that they are of global quality,” says Karan Gupta, career and education consultant.
 
 South Korea continues to send the maximum number of students to China, but a close second is the US and Thailand comes next. Pakistan and India follow. When this decade opened, China was not on most students' radar; now, having made rapid strides in the unlikely field of higher education, it is attracting several thousand foreign students every year. Most of them are studying humanities, followed by medicine.
 
 As far as Indian students there are concerned, the largest slice is pursuing medicine. But as Maria Mathai, director, MM Advisory, points out, “What started with medicine is now expanding to engineering too as we see a lot of Indians now enquiring about computer science courses in Chinese universities. Also, with China being closer to India, parents are a lot more comfortable with sending their children there.”
 
 Box
 
 New campus favourite
 
 Countries sending students ----- Numbers
 
 South Korea: 70,540
 
 US: 23,838
 
 Thailand: 23,044
 
 Pakistan: 18,626
 
 India: 18,171
 
 Russia: 17,971 
 
 Indonesia: 14,714 
 
 (Official Chinese figures for 2016)
 
 
