THANE: The traffic congestion within Thane city especially moving towards   or   will be eased once the   flyover is open for public use, claim officials from the  .

 The traffic officials believe that once the flyover is open for commuters it will take away the load of around 50% vehicles.
 
 “Once the flyover opens all the school buses, vans and commuters going towards Naupada, Gokhale Road, Ram Maruti Road will take the bridge and the vehicular traffic in the internal roads will decrease by roughly 50%. Due to this, there won’t be traffic congestion at the Almeda junction and even at the junction near Malkhmali lake. The bridge will save a lot of time travel time. There are even chances that the vehicular traffic from Mulund towards   talkies might increase and there will be more vehicles at the Teen Hath Naka signal compared to the earlier. This might happen as earlier drivers that would take the Teen Hath Naka flyover and enter the city from the Nitin junction in order to not get stuck at the Teen Hath Naka signal,” said a traffic official.
 
 The 600 meter long Vandana-Khopat flyover is complete and ready to be used by commuters, only the official inauguration is to be done, stated the civic administration.
 
 “The 600 meter long and 8.5 meter wide flyover is a two-lane bridge and the vehicles will be able to ply to and fro from Vandana talkies to Akruti commercial complex. Apart from demarcating the lanes everything else is done, including placing the noise barriers. Noise barriers will help in reducing the vehicular noise that reaches the residential buildings,” said an official from TMC.
 
 The civic administration will even be doing the beautification work under the bridge so that the place is not used by motorists or drivers for illegal parking. There are plans of constructing toilets under the bridge so that the commuters visiting the Vandana bus depot can avail the facility.
 
 The 600 meter long and 8.5 meter wide flyover is a two-lane bridge and the vehicles will be able to ply to and fro from Vandana talkies to Akruti commercial complex. Apart from demarcating lanes everything else is done, including placing the noise barriers
 
 
