NEW DELHI: A 35-year-old man has been battling for life at a city   after he was attacked by a group of youths on  . 

 Abdul Malik and some of his co-workers from a factory had gone out for prayers on March 2 when they were attacked by a group. Malik was hit on the head with a hockey stick and sustained  . He was admitted in the ICU at RML Hospital. Four of the attackers were nabbed later. One of them, Sahil (20), was arrested while the rest were sent to a reformation home as they are juveniles. 
 
 “Sahil is the main accused. He is a resident of a JJ colony in  . His father sells eggs on a cart near the industrial area there. Investigation has revealed that Sahil’s father had an argument with Malik a few days before Holi. Malik used to go for lunch to a place where Sahil’s father had his shop. So, when he saw Malik on March 2, Sahil decided to take revenge,” said a senior police officer. 
 
 The police, however, clarified that the attack had nothing to do with Holi or throwing of colours. 
 
 But Malik’s family have a different version. They said Malik and others were on their way to Madina mosque in Shakurpur, which was less than a kilometre away from their factory. 
 
 “May be they (the attackers) were all drunk. Why else would they attack these men so brutally?” Malik’s brother   said. 
 
 Mehtab Sheikh, the owner of the factory where Malik worked, said, “The hoodlums started attacking the workers near Britannia Chowk. They had colours smeared all over them and were armed with hockey sticks. While the others escaped with minor injuries, Malik received a direct blow on the back of the head and immediately collapsed. But the assailants didn’t stop even after he fell down.”
 
 Shahzad (19), Malik’s co-worker who was part of the group said he was lucky to have escaped. “We did not provoke them. There were at least seven people on the other side. I ran and sought help from policemen who were stationed at the mosque. They rushed to the spot to help us,” he said. 
 
 Malik was taken to the nearby Mahavir Hospital and was later referred to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital where he continues to be critical.
 
 “Doctors have started administering oxygen through an incision around the neck. There is no body movement since last week. He is in coma. We have no clue what to do now. Celebrate a festival but troubling others in its name cannot be justified,” Khaliq said.
 
 Malik’s wife, Roshan Khatun, and three children live in Devdha village in   district of Bihar. His wife rushed to Delhi after being informed by the police. She had to bring her three-year-old daughter Ashia with her. 
 
 “Police called me after finding the contact number from the documents my husband was carrying. My sons Waaris (5) and Haaris (8) are still in the village. My husband had been helping in the education of our children by sending Rs 7,000-8,000 every month. Doctors have told us that chances of recovery are very low. God knows what will happen,” Khatun said amid sobs. 
 
 The family described Malik as a man of few words who mostly kept to himself. 
 
 A migrant labourer, Malik worked for around 12 hours a day at an embroidery workshop. He earned around Rs 12,000 per month.
 
 “He came to Delhi from our village located near the Nepal border around 15 years ago. A few years later, he called me too for the same work,” said Abdul, a friend. 
 
 Doctors at RML confirmed that Malik has a severe head injury and he is critical. 
 
 “We operated on him to clear the clotting and reduce intra-cranial pressure in the brain recently and have kept him in ICU for continuous monitoring,” said a senior doctor. 
 
 He added that Malik has high-grade fever that could be due to infection. 
 
 
