CHANDIGARH: After schools, the Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) is on its way to constitute child-friendly committees in Chandigarh villages, announced   chairperson   in a recent event. A proposal regarding the same has been prepared. The committee would be entrusted with various responsibilities including ensuring 100% school enrolment and bringing down the dropout rates. 

 The committee will comprise five members including village sarpanch as the chairman, heads of schools in the village as member secretaries and four student representatives from each school located in the village. Out of four students, two will be boys and the other two will be girls keeping in mind equal representation.
 
 As per the plan, commission will be forming the committees with an aim to make child-friendly places. In order to achieve the same, the committees will be roping in the aid of specialized agencies including   and some NGOs. The committees would be formed at at Panchayat level as a pilot initiative initially. The committees will also ensure that parenting workshops and materials are organized in cooperation with the leading NGOs, healthcare providers and educators on a regular basis.
 
 Child participation and their choices would be taken into consideration before making decisions affecting their lives. 
 
 Officials from CCPCR said the committees will also ensure 100% immunization in the villages of the pre-school children covered under different programs including  . The officilals said 80% of special government interventions for girl children, including iron supplemnation and provision of cycles, has been achieved and village-level vulnerability mapping has been done to identify the children at risk. They added that they will also see that extended immunization programs have been initiated and that annual health checkups are conducted through school health programs.The official noted that the schools have been provided with drinking water and sanitation facilities.
 
 CCPCR has already formed child-friendly committees in all Chandigarh-based schools last year.
 
 
