MUMBAI: Some senior government officials and a recently retired member of an   are under the scanner after the Income-Tax (I-T) Investigation Directorate discovered documents purportedly showing   made by these individuals to book flats in a posh residential project in Khar (W).

 The documents were found during a search at the premises of a real estate firm,  , and its promoter, Haresh Chawla, I-T officials claimed. 
 
 However, Chawla denied the allegation that he had collected cash from serving government officials. He said some retired officers had purchased flats in his Khar (W) project. “We are cooperating with I-T officials and providing them the required information,” he added.
 
 I-T sources alleged that the documents revealed names of high-level officials posted in Mumbai and elsewhere in Maharashtra. They said a search at the builder’s office also uncovered a trail leading to a   to which sizeable funds were transferred from India via Dubai. “We are inquiring about the real beneficiary of the account and purpose for which money has been transferred,” said a source.
 
 I-T officials had initiated the search at Mohini Shelters, its promoter, and associates a few days ago. “It’s an ongoing search and will continue for the next few days. We are examining documents which provide details on several senior state government officials and others,” said a source.
 
 Hard disks as well as soft copies of invoices and other documents were collected for scrutiny, they said. Since payments are partly by cheque, bank accounts of officials who have booked flats will also be scrutinized. In one instance, a buyer has allegedly made a Rs 1.8 crore cash payment to the builder.
 
 I-T sources said searches were carried out at the builder’s Juhu and Khar offices and at the premises of some associates who handle his finances. The builder’s accountant’s house at Manish Nagar in Andheri (W) was also searched. Documents linked to payments received in cash from bureaucrats were found there, I-T officials claimed.
 
 I-T officials said they are now in the process of recording the statement of the builder and those associated with him.
 
 
