JAIPUR: The Jodhpur district administration has directed all government and private schools to hold a compulsory oath ceremony for boys in the age group of 9 to 12 years and pledge not to commit or be part of any violence against women.

 The administration has listed nine points in the oath chart for students which aim to create an environment of respect for women.
 
 The oath is designed to develop critical thinking about the root cause of crimes against women. Points such as ‘I shall not engage in any activity, directly or indirectly outraging the modesty of a women’ and ‘I shall not take dowry and will contribute to abolish this evil practice in society,’ etc. cover major issues faced by women.
 
 Atheme of the poster for the campaign has been taken from the film, Bahubali-II, in which the actor Prabhas and actress Anushka Shetty are shown holding a bow and arrow. This will be distributed in every school to spread the message of partnership between a man and a woman instead of the traditional concept of men protecting women. The campaign, which was launched on Wednesday, will be extended to all 2,100 schools in the entire district, targeting 3 lakh students.
 
 
 
 
  “It’s a good initiative. The best way to sensitise young minds is by building respect for women as a habit rather than exposing them to harsh realities and developing fear for law,” said Sharad Tiwari, principal of Mayoor School, Jodhpur, which has already held the oath ceremony.
 
 The concept was designed by Jodhpur district collector Ravi Kumar   to sensitise boys and inculcate good habits in them from a young age. “My source of inspiration is ‘Beti Padao, Beti Bachao’ campaign. I have initiated a reverse approach by not speaking about laws, sections, articles, etc. and legal consequences. My focus is on evoking respect, care and basic human rights,” said Surpur. Schools have also been directed to hold follow up activities to keep the campaign active.
 
 It is getting support from civil society groups that have urged Surpur to hold similar programmes in other parts of the city. Surpur has also given directions on the format of the oath to be taken at schools.
 
 “In case a school has both boys and girls, the former will read the oath facing girls who will acknowledge it by applause. The idea is for boys to see girls who are known to them while they take the oath. It will evoke a sense of responsibility and create a safe environment for girls,” said Surpur.
 
 
 
