We all agree that   occupies a central place in our quest for education as the knowledge of almost every subject comes from reading. One must be able to read the   or scientific problems to be able to solve it. A computer or any gadget manual has to be read to be understood. 

 Reading is the single most important activity every family must inculcate as part of its daily ritual as it is a practice that paves the way for being knowledgeable and well versed in any topic. Developing the reading habit starts early in one's life, from the time the mother starts reading out aloud to her child in the womb. 
 
 Reading aloud conditions the child's brain to associate reading with pleasure while also building her vocabulary and shaping the mother as a role model for reading. In fact, the least expensive thing that we can give a child outside of a hug is the most valuable gift of words.
 
 One should remember to follow a few simple steps to develop a good reading practice. One should try to read out aloud to the child as much as possible with books containing verbal repetitions being particularly important for the development of infants and toddlers. One should set aside a time for reading, with a story after dinner being a lovely practice.
 
 Listening is an acquired art developed as a response to loud reading. One should encourage children to start with picture books that have only a few sentences. To encourage involvement, the child should be asked to feel and turn pages on her own. Before beginning to read, one should always introduce the child to the name of the book, the author and the illustrator, no matter how many times the book has been read. The first time you read a book, discuss with your child the illustration on the cover and help answer the question of what the illustration is about. 
 
 Help develop your child's interest by encouraging her to ask what will happen next. If the chapters are long, always try to find an interesting place to stop so that the suspense entices the child to come back to the story the next day. Whenever a child asks a question involving the text, make a point of looking up the answer in the reference book. This expands the knowledge base and nurtures one's skills of working in the library. 
 
 You should, however, be careful to never read to children stories which you do not enjoy in the first place. Do not try confine literature to the narrow limits of curriculum and encourage children to read all kinds of books. You should never be unnerved by the questions that children ask while listening. Also, asking children to read by cutting down on their time to watch television is not a very good idea. In fact, a reading time of 20 minutes a day for children will go a long way in developing their reading practice. 
 
 (The writer is the founder and secretary of Sanskriti, The Gurukul.)
 
 
