CHENNAI: Around 160   shops along designated state and national   in Chennai, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram shut on Sunday on a direction on Saturday by the Madras  .

 Regulars who turned up for their daily shot of   were left dry and dejected. Bars in five-star hotels, however, remained open.
 
 On Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR), two outlets near Kottivakkam and within 200m of each other did not open for business, sending dozens of drinkers on an unexpected trip to the nearest Tasmac outlet, on LB Road in Thiruvanmiyur. Twoliquor outlets on LB Roadwere shut on Jayalalithaa’s birth anniversary in 2017,officials downed the shutter on a third one on Sunday.
 
 A   shop with a bar attached on Anna Salai inSaidapet was also closed on Sunday.
 
 According to a Tasmac official, liquor shops located within a distance of 500m from a state or national highway were ordered closed. In municipal areas where the population is less than 20,000, liquor shops within 220m from a highway were shut.
 
 In Chennai district which is spread across 176sqkm, 41 liquor shops were closed, with eight in the north, 15 in the central parts of the city and 18 in its south. In Tiruvallur (east), which includes parts of Greater Chennai Corporation, 59 shops were shut, while eight were shut in Tiruvallur (west). In Kancheepuram (north), parts of which are within city corporation limits, 33 shops had to close. In Kancheepuram (south), 15 shops shut.
 
 On Saturday, the Madras high court directed the state to shut down 1,700 liquor shops opened along highways falling under municipal areas, as the process followed in permitting such shops were not in accordance with the earlier   order on highway liquor outlets.
 
 Besides permit rooms and bars, 1,700 liquor shops were opened in the state last year after the prohibition and excise commissioner issued a circular directing district collectors to permit FL I and FL II (foreign liquor) licensed shops within the limits of municipal corporations with immediate effect. The Madras HC held that “representations to establish such shops could only have been decided on a case-to-case basis.”
 
 Tamil Nadu Tasmac workers Association (affiliated to All India Trade Union Congress) general secretary D Dhanasekaran said, “Most of the 1,700 liquor shops opened by the state last year were set up without the consent of district collectors. To reopen the shops that have now been shut, the state will have to either obtain the consent of each collector or approach the Supreme Court seeking a stay on Saturday’s high court ruling.
 
 
