Efforts of around 20,000 students and volunteers to clean the 72km-stretch of river   in Tirunelveli district as part of a mega cleanliness drive on March 10, seems to have alerted the district administration. Based on a sample   - conducted on the same day - on the pollution in the river, the   is planning to address the key issues of dumping garbage into the river by locals, trashing of bath waste by devotees and tourists, open defecation along the river and encroachment of the river bed by farmers and industrial units. 

 "Tourists and locals dump waste like soap packets, shampoo sachets and old clothes in the river, which is a cause of concern," said collector Sandeep Nanduri.
 
 On Tuesday, representatives of the regional campus of Anna University - that coordinated the study — handed over the preliminary report of the survey to the collector. Nanduri said not much sewage was dumped into the river as most houses had toilets with septic tanks. But open defecation was still practiced in most of the 68 spots along the river where the survey was conducted.
 
 Admitting that garbage dumping was rampant along the banks, Nanduri said the issue would be addressed in the next few days. A meeting comprising officials heading the corporation, municipalities, town panchayats and panchayats along which the stretch of the river in Tirunelveli district runs through, has been called. "Requirement for garbage bins in those localities will be analysed and placed in a month." During the meeting local bodies would be asked to present the condition of the public toilets and requirements to make defunct toilets functional.
 
 Dumping grey water from bathrooms and kitchens is a more serious threat compared to defecation and dumping of sewage in the river. Nanduri said it had to be studied and suitable cost effective means to treat or reuse grey water has to be implemented. The administration has also started identifying encroachments by establishments like brick kilns and farmers who have taken up temporary cultivation on the river bed.
 
 
