Nagpur: It was an inspirational moment for the budding lawyers present at the Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court on Monday, as they got a sneak peek into the life of Justice Vikas  , retired judge at the  .

 The legal luminary shared many incidents from his kitty that shaped his career during the candid interview ‘Making of a Jurist’ conducted by senior counsel Avinash Gordey. The session was organized by High Court Bar Association (HCBA) under the banner of Study Circle.
 
 Sirpurkar served as a judge in four HCs viz Bombay, Madras, Uttarakhand and Calcutta. Speaking about the work culture, he appreciated the system followed at Bombay HC and said, “It is very impressive to see that the judges are punctual and always arrive on time. They also try to decide the verdict on the bench and don’t believe in reserving the judgment even if it is a criminal appeal. These are basic lessons one should follow to become a successful jurist.”
 
 Justice Sirpurkar who was a renowned criminal lawyer was slightly nervous when he was asked to assume office as a judge. But once he took the bold decision, he never regretted it. 
 
 He said, “Although I was earning much more as an advocate, but the post of a judge was highly prestigious. If you refuse to take the post on the grounds of money then you have no right to say against the judiciary.”
 
 He advised the junior lawyers to be well informed about the cases and be good with the diction. It is observed that the lawyers at Supreme Court choose their words wisely and try to make a point without beating around the bush in less words. Highlighting the important facts from the issue at the right time is a skill which can be learnt only by keen observation of the arguments in the courtroom, Sirpurkar said.
 
 According to Sirpurkar, intonation of speech plays an integral role. He said, “When you are confident then the judge will consider your point, speak in a lower pitch as he will be receptive of it. Hand gestures also matter at times.”
 
 HCBA president Anil Kilor, vice-president Purushottam Patil were also present during the event along with high court judges.
 
 
