Indore: In the backdrop of Delhi Public School’s bus accident case, traffic police on Wednesday suggested fixing responsibility of parents to ensure safety of their children while travelling from home to school and vice versa. A discussion on the proposal was held among senior officials of district administration, police, traffic, RTO and school education department. “A large percentage of the children are not being ferried through school buses but using different means of transportation including auto-rickshaw and vans. In this case, it should be the parents/guardians’ responsibility to ensure safety of their children,” the traffic police officials said. Collector Nishant Warwade asked officials concerned to ensure that school buses follow all safety norms while other related issues will gradually be taken up in coming time. He said schools that do not have any transport facility for the children will have to purchase mini buses. Such institutions will be helped to get permit for the vehicles, so that dependability on auto-rickshaw, vans and other means of transportation to ferry the children will be reduced. During the meeting, issue of helping auto-rickshaw and van drivers to purchase a vehicle with 13+1 seating capacity and attach the same with the schools, which do not have their own buses, was raised. The administration has sought an affidavit from the school/college management as fixing their responsibility on 25 points regarding safety of school children. The educational institutions have to submit the same by February 12. “A meeting with the school/college management, who runs their buses, will be held at 4pm in DAVV auditorium on February 3 to discuss various aspects of the affidavit and strengthening safety of the children” the collector said. Advocate Vaibhav Bansal and Manish Gupta filed a petition before Indore bench of high court alleging slow investigation in the bus accident case. The petition has been filed against eight parties including DPS. The court has ordered RTO officials to file a report along with an affidavit within two weeks. In another development, DPS has bought 12 new buses. The buses have reached RTO to get its registration done. After examining all the required parameters including the in-built speed governor, the department has reportedly passed seven buses