Coimbatore: With over 250 angiograms in a month, the newly-opened single-plane catheterization laboratory at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) has been seeing a good response.

 Inaugurated by the state health minister C Vijaya Baskar on March 31, the facility was set up in order to diagnose and check the coronary and cardiac conditions at the government hospital.
 
 Earlier, the patients were recommended either to government hospitals in Chennai or private hospitals, a senior hospital authority said, adding that the cost of diagnosis and intervention is depended on the requirement of the lab’s usage. 
 
 Attributing the increase in cardiac-related diseases to the change in life style, a doctor specialized in cardiology said that next to trauma, cardiac disease was the main reason for increase in mortality rate. With the facility, there is no need for the patients to undergo operation. 
 
 “We treat at least five to ten patients with cardiac diseases per day. The disease is quite prevalent even among the young ones,” the doctor said. However, he said most of the patients, who had taken angiograms and angioplasty, were adults. 
 
 Till date, the hospital has conducted a total of 93 angiograms and 60 percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) – an invasive procedure to open up blocked coronary arteries, the official said, adding that they had conducted a maximum of 12 cases per day.
 
 As the treatment costs about Rs 15,000, most of the patients were put on waiting list for a few days as the inauguration date neared. The official said that they have been witnessing patients coming from Ottanchitaram, Ooty and Tirupur.
 
 While the state government has managed to inaugurate the single-plane cath lab at the cost of five crores, they are yet to install a bi-plane cath lab, at the cost of six crores, which would be used for diagnosis and intervention of neuro-related diseases.
 
 “Installation works are going on and within a month it will be completed and installed,” the official added. 
 
 
