THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With the government deciding to allow the sale of Foreign Made Foreign   (FMFL) in the state, the efforts of   ( ) for the last 10 years has yielded results. The introduction of the legal sale of   is also expected to become a major revenue earner and is also expected to put an end to the thriving black market for FMFL in the cities in the state.

 The Bevco had mooted the idea in 2007 and followed it up every year, but the alternate governments refused to give the green signal to the proposal. The Bevco had also included FMFL in the list while inviting expression of interests from the suppliers, but as the government had not cleared the proposal, it was being put on hold.
 
  
  
 
 The government has not been able to decide on the excise duty, as there were multiple opinions that if the excise duty was high, it would boost the grey market and if the excise duty was lowered, it would adversely affect the IMFL market. Now in the budget, the rate of sales tax, as well as the basic price of FMFL that can be sold in the state, has been fixed at such a grade that it will in no way affect the sale of IMFL.
 
 At present, there are only two ways to bring FMFL to the state legally. While the foreign liquor rules 13 (3) and 13 (11) allow bar hotels having liquor and beer and wine licenses to procure FMFL from customs bond (a customs controlled area where the FMFL is available) after paying the customs duty, a bonafide traveller could bring from abroad a maximum of 4.5 litres of FMFL after paying the customs duty. The FL-3 and FL-11 license holders have to pay an additional Rs 30,000 other than their bar licenses to sell the FMFL in their premises.
 
 Of late, the black market of FMFL has been a thriving business in the state, with the smuggled and spuriously prepared liquor labelled as FMFL doing a roaring business in some areas in the capital city, Kochi and Kozhikode resulting in revenue loss to the government. Moreover, other neighbouring states like   and   have already opened up the FMFL market to their distributors. With the budget proposing to open up the market to FMFL, the government is not only expected to earn a decent revenue but also would cause a jolt to the black market of FMFL in the state.
 
 
