Arunachalam Muruganantham, the ‘Padman’ of India, was in the city to address students and watch a special show of the film, Padman, starring  . In a chat with us, he talks about how he originally wanted to make a film on his work in Hollywood, why he chose to make it as a   movie and more...

 
 I had been getting queries from regional filmmakers to do a movie based on my work. But I did not want my work and mission — to create awareness on menstrual hygiene — to be restricted to only a part of the country. In fact, I wanted to do the movie in Hollywood. But I realised that it would take at least a decade to become a reality. So, I went ahead with a movie in Hindi.
 
 
 There were offers from a few Bollywood filmmakers, but I was sceptical as to whether those films will do justice to my vision or even my life. I was also apprehensive because what if I sign an agreement and give the rights to some filmmaker, and he shelves the project? The purpose might get lost. That’s when   spoke to me. She had written a story on me and their terms were transparent. They stuck to their words, and in fact, completed the film in nine months.
 
 
 Yes, indeed. Eighty five per cent of the things shown in the movie are true. Probably this is the only movie in the world, which has thrown light on menstrual hygiene and a hero holding or wearing a sanitary napkin. This has created a conversation, which means, people have started talking about female personal hygiene. This helps to create awareness. Since the movie is in Hindi, it helps reach out to more audience. I have been working in north Indian villages, so I know the truth. Compared to the south Indian states, north India is less developed and there’s little awareness on menstrual hygiene. That’s why we decided to select  , central India, as the setting for the movie. We wanted the movie to reach out to a larger population. Though we were apprehensive of facing some issues in the Arab countries, the movie has released in all places, except Pakistan. It’s a great achievement for us. 
 
 
 Till now, people, including women, hide their face when they talk about menstruation. That taboo is being addressed in this movie. It’s being released across India, including small towns and villages.
 
 
 There is only 12 per cent population which uses sanitary napkins. It’s the same scene even in some of the developed countries. Irrespective of the nature of the material, we need to create awareness on napkin usage. 
 
 
 Talks are going on to remake it in Tamil, Telugu and Kannada, but nothing has been finalised yet.
 
 
 I think   would be apt to do the role. I would love to see him play the lead role if the film has a Tamil version.
 
 
 I suffered a lot when I tried to make sanitary napkins and promote the idea. My family — including my mother and wife — deserted me. Villagers even tied me to a tree and beat me. But after seeing me successful now, they come and say that they all knew that I would become famous one day. Some say I have wide forehead and that’s why I got name and fame; some others say, the lines in my palm indicated popularity, and so on. To sum up, they are all now proud of me and my work. The film could achieve which I could not in the last 18 years, to create a conversation on menstrual hygiene. That said, the only drawback the film has brought to me, personally, is that I’m not able to convince my wife that I never had a love affair. The film shows my character having a lover and she believes that it’s true. Till now, she remains unconvinced. 
 
 
 The problem is that the government is not creating enough awareness. Unless they know how to use a napkin and its benefits, there’s no point in distributing it. I’m working towards involving college students to reach out to schools and create awareness on the usage of napkins. 
 
 
 If an uneducated man like me can try to solve a problem faced by people, educated people can do much more. Instead of looking for job opportunities, they should identify problems that plague the society and try to solve them using their education. Also, we should not wait for World Menstrual Hygiene Day to talk about women’s personal hygiene. Any day is a good day to talk about it. Today, being Valentine’s Day, I would request every man to talk about female personal hygiene with his woman and make it special for her.
 
