Patiala: It was six months after the country gained freedom that the erstwhile ruler of Patiala, Maharaja Yadavindra Singh, decided to come up with a school on the lines of his alma mater — Aitchison College, Lahore. On February 2, 1948, the foundation of Yadavindra Public School ( ) was laid in Patiala. Seventy years later, his son, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, on Friday, played the perfect host to hundreds of dignitaries, including former Union ministers, state ministers and royals of Jammu and Kashmir as the school celebrated its platinum jubilee.

 With his father Bhupinder Singh too being an old student of Aitchison College, the last ruler of the Patiala wanted to have a school that would remind him of his school days. On an interim basis, the school started operating from a stadium located near the New Moti Bagh Palace of the Patiala royals. Maharaja Yadavindra then took a piece of 100 acres of land near Rajpura, where had planned to construct a majestic building for the school. However, the plans did not take shape and the land was later taken over by the Radha Soamis sect. In the meantime, a huge building came up at the stadium with an Indo-European style of architecture and thus began the story of one of the most successful educational institutions in the region.
 
 Malwinder Singh, brother of Capt Amarinder Singh and chairman of the board of governors of the school, said unlike Aitchison College, the Maharaja had opened the school for Hindu, Sikhs and Muslims boys. Rai Bahadur Dhani Ram Kapila from Aitchison College was the first headmasters of this school. He said the Maharaja wanted to keep alive the link between Aitchison College and the new school. He invited a large number of staffers, which included teachers, peons, gardeners and caretakers from Aitchison College, to join YPS, he said.
 
 Till 1988, the school retained its linkage with Aitchison College as the alumni of the school called themselves Aitchison College of Old Boys Association (ACOBA). During the following years, the old students decided to do away with the Aitchison College tag and came up with Yadavindarians Old Student Association (YOSA).
 
 The school remained an all-boys school till 1955, when the first girl student joined. In 1982, it was for the first time a team of AYOSA went to Aitchison College as part of a student exchange programme.
 
 AYOSA president Rupinder Garg said, “A one-to-one contact programme had been started between the two schools but it has fallen prey to politics of hatred. The team from Aitchison College, also used to visit us here on the invitation of AYOSA of YPS Patiala.”
 
 “Great feeling to be back in my old school, YPS Patiala, at its platinum jubilee celebrations. Nostalgic feeling, recalling those good old days in the school established by my father Maharaja Yadavindra Singh. Shared this special moment with my wife Preneet and Dr Karan Singh ji.”
 
 Amarinder Singh, Chief minister, Punjab
 
 
