GURUGRAM: Principals of government schools across the city have been following up on developments surrounding admission of children in private schools under EWS quota. 

 Around 340 students had cleared the   qualifying exam, conducted on April 15. On May 5, district administration directed principals of several of the city’s government schools to ensure these students get admitted to 46 private schools. 
 
 Many principals said admission of their wards were cancelled due to incomplete documentation, while others said their   counterparts had sent them away with one excuse or another. Asha Miglani, principal of Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Sushant Lok, said applications of two students of her school were rejected. 
 
 “I visited KR Mangalam School for EWS admissions. The school gave admission to one of three students who had applied there. They have asked for more documents from the other two.”
 
 Miglani said she had also gone to DPS Sushant Lok, but didn’t get to meet the school’s principal or vice-principal. Sunita Nagpal, principal, DPS Sushant Lok, said: “We were having a function in the auditorium and weren’t able to meet her. The administrative in-charge did meet them.” 
 
 Geeta Arya, the principal of GSSS, Civil Lines, was at Salwan Public School in Sector 15 for the admission of 14 students under EWS quota. “Of the 14 who had applied, 11 were admitted. One student did not get admission due to fake documents, the other two did not submit all required documents.”
 
 Meanwhile, Jharsa GSSS principal Jai Bhagwan alleged that Ajanta Public School in Sector 31 had denied admissions to two students under his charge. 
 
 Refuting the claims, Vaibhav Kapoor, principal of Ajanta Public School, said: “This is not true. We have given admission to one deserving candidate. We put the admission of the other two on hold because they didn’t have BPL cards.”
 
 The   principals have been told to get all the students admitted by May 10. Speaking about the admission process, district education officer Ravindra Ahlawadi said, “A report will be compiled after the admission deadline is over on Thursday. We don’t yet have inputs from principals of all government schools who have visited private schools.”
 
 
