CHENNAI: Stacks of medical bills of more than 1,000 patients lie in the office of the  , a charitable trust that screens pregnant women for rare genetic disorders and arranges funds to treat affected children.

 
 “The healthcare bureaucracy is crippling,” said the head of clinical genetics Dr  . “None of these children were given an insurance cover because of their pre-existing condition. When I saw the news today, I thought it was the beginning of change,” she said.
 
 She was referring to the Delhi high court judgment on Monday which held that it was illegal for health insurance policies to exclude genetic disorders from their scope of coverage and termed it a violation of the right to equality and life. It said insurance firms were free to structure their contracts based on reasonable and intelligible factors that should not be arbitrary and in any case cannot be ‘exclusionary’.
 
 In the last 10 years, the foundation has been trying to register at least 500 children with lysosomal storage diseases – a group of inherited metabolic diseases characterised by an abnormal build-up of various toxic materials in the body’s cells as a result of enzyme deficiencies. “We failed every single time. Some 150 have already died while waiting for help. At least now, we have hopes of not being excluded,” Dr Jagadeesh said.
 
 The term “inclusive” health coverage appeared to excite staff and volunteers at the office of the Down’s Syndrome Federation of India too. “It’s created a buzz at our centre,” said the federation’s cofounder Rekha  .
 
 Only a few kids, who were enrolled in their parents’ corporate insurance, got refunds for surgeries, she said. “That was because hospitals did not mention that the child had Down’s syndrome,” Ramachandran said.
 
 Health insurance companies say they will not be able to extend cover to people with genetic diseases because pre-existing medical conditions in a few people may push up the overall premium for everyone. “We will not be able to include them in the general pool. Insurance companies pool money and give it to people in need,” said   chairman V Jagannathan.
 
 Fetal health experts like S  , who heads Mediscan, understand. “That is one reason we are demanding fetal health insurance. While many pregnant women will take the policy, only some will require special tests. These tests can rule out 68% of the rare disorders within 6-18 weeks,” he said. Companies extend the cover to children who were not diagnosed with the disease with an increased premium or co-pay option. “The incidence is not huge and if we take preventive measures to cut it down with tests, it will not be a huge burden even for the companies,” he said.
 
