Nagpur: Despite growing calls for women empowerment in the higher education sector, the number of girl aspirants in the undergraduate engineering courses is going down. As per latest statistics by the All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE), their numbers have dropped by 12,000, from 36,250 in 2012-13 to 24,802 in 2016-17. However, the figures for this year were not made available. It’s well known fact that engineering courses, which were once much sought after, are being least preferred by the students, primarily due to shortage of jobs and exorbitant fees charged by the college. Latest statistics from the AICTE confirmed that fact both intake and number of aspirants have declined in last six years. In academic year 2014-15, the intake rose to 1.70 lakh students across the state, which was reduced to 1.51 lakh in 2017-18. Even number of colleges reduced from 380 to 374 in the same period. A total of 97,462 students took admissions in the engineering and technology courses in 2014-15, which were reduced by over 9,000 to 88,388 last year, as per the AICTE. Sources from the Directorate of Technical Education (DTE), the apex body for admissions to the professional courses in state attributed the trend of girls dropping out of engineering courses to fewer job opportunities. On other hand, there is surge in admissions to the pure science courses like BSc and also to popular ones like interior designing, fashion designing, and others. Girls from well to do families prefer foreign universities even for undergraduate programmes nowadays, they said. Even educationists feel that girls were disinterested in pursuing with old courses, particularly in the core branches. “Change of interest or maybe scope of a particular field could be the reason behind dwindling strength of females pursuing engineering graduation programmes. Many factors, including fewer job opportunities in abroad as well as in core fields add up to the reason. This year, admission in architecture, interior designing, pure science have recently increased,” says former vice chancellor of Amravati University Kamal Singh. Others like Surendra Gole, the former engineering principal now working as director of Anantved HR training institute, believes that slowdown in the software industry had led to girls not keen on engineering courses. “Until 2008. IT sector was booming with female population as it provided lavish lifestyle and fat salaries. Factors like recession, problems relating with H-1B visa and fewer job opportunities led to decrease in admissions. Since more and more girls started pursuing software domain graduate courses, the recruitment criteria shortlisted the best engineers and thus, leading to crisis of jobs. For now, India has better opportunities in software industry due to digitization.” Former Ramdeobaba Engineering College principal SS Limaye feels that parents prefer to invest in an education which helps their child, specially the girls to earn soon as possible after graduation nowadays. “It’s just a phase which would reverse once the IT industry is revived. With many big projects are lined up in the country, the situation would change soon,” he says.