BATHINDA: Punjab police have arrested four men for their alleged involvement in the bomb blast in Bathinda’s Maur town last year which killed seven people. At least two of the accused are believed to have links with  , headed by jailed preacher Gurmeet Ram Rahim.

 Senior police officials alleged that the old Maruti 800 car, in which the explosive was kept, was painted inside the dera before being used in the attack. Punjab police’s counter-intelligence IG Amit Parsad confirmed the arrests and said, “Yes, two of them have links with Dera Sacha Sauda.” He refused to give more details and said that teams were still interrogating the arrested men.
 
 The blast had occurred on January 31last year, barely four days before voting for the Punjab assembly elections was to take place.
 
 The bomb had gone off in a busy market area just when former Congress MLA Harminder Singh Jassi’s convoy was passing by after campaigning in the area. Jassi’s daughter is married to Gurmeet’s son.
 
 Despite a Congress wave across Punjab, Jassi lost the election to AAP candidate Jagdev Singh Kamalu and finished third in the contest. The dera has massive following in Punjab, especially in Bathinda and surrounding areas.
 
 
 
 
 The four arrested men were on Thursday produced before a court in Talwandi Sabo. Three of them are from Sirsa while the fourth is from Ganganagar in Rajasthan. They have been identified as Hapreet Singh, Sunil Kumar, Krishan Kumar and Harmel Singh who is from Ganganagar. Krishan and Harmel are believed to have changed the colour of the car from maroon to white and have confessed to cops about their role.
 
 A senior police officer on Wednesday brought Krishan to Maur police station where the Maruti 800 car has been parked. Officials claimed that he removed paint from a small portion of the car to show that the original paint of the car was maroon.
 
 Officials added that they had missed this crucial point while investigating the case for the past year.
 
 The explosion on January 31 was so powerful that it had flung the car more than 20 feet into the air and turned it into a huge ball of fire.
 
 Another detonator had been attached to a pressure cooker but which did not go off. Jassi’ office manager Harpal Singh, 41, and five young kids who were playing near by were killed in the blast.
 
 
