CHANDIGARH: The Class X students (ICSE) on Monday heaved a sigh of relief after taking their first board exam of English Language conducted by   Certificate Examination (CISCE). The examination started at 11am. They students said the paper was easy to attempt. However, they have more concerns regarding their Mathematics exam which is on Tuesday as they have no holiday for revision. The Class XII ( ) students who took important exam of mathematics termed it as easy. 

 An English teacher from Saupins School, Panchkula said, "As far as compositions, letters and comprehension are concerned, the paper was easy. Since the students were familiar with the format of the question paper, they did not find any difficulty in attempting the paper. They were able to manage the time efficiently."
 
 The Class X students hurried to home as soon as the paper ended as they were worried about the mathematics exam which is slated for Tuesday. Students said that it would have been better if they had a holiday.
 
 "English was easy, but it is unfair as we do not have any holiday for a difficult paper like Mathematics. I already feel exhausted after taking this exam and now have no time to rest as I need to revise the entire syllabus of Maths," said Pragati Sharma, a class X student.
 
 "Mathematics is a subject that I have always feared. Even while taking the exam, I was thinking about what to revise and how to focus on Mathematics paper," said Rhythm Chadda, another Class X student.
 
 Suresh Saini, a mathematics teacher at Strawberry Fields High School, Chandigarh, termed the Class XII question paper as balanced. "The Class XII Math question paper was well-balanced. All the students were happy as they had thoroughly prepared. Also, the questions asked in the exam were based on the same pattern which is followed in school. Students managed to finish the paper within the stipulated time ," he said.
 
 The schools which have Indian Certificate for Secondary education (ICSE) affiliation in Tricity are Strawberry Field High School, Sector 26; St Xaviers School, Sector 44; St Stephen's School, Sector 45 and Tender Heart School, Sector 33. St   in   and Panchkula, Saupins in Panchkula and   in Mohali are other schools offering ICSE.
 
 Class XII (Indian School Certificate) is offered in three schools only - Strawberry Field High School in Sector 26, St Xaviers School in Sector 44, and Yadvindra Public School in Mohali.
 
 
