GUNTUR: Taking a serious view of gross financial irregularities being reported at the Head Water Wing (HWW) of   Municipal Corporation (GMC), the vigilance and enforcement wing is readying the ground for an in-depth investigation. 

 Vigilance officials are said to have already completed a preliminary enquiry into alleged misdeeds by some engineering staff at HWW and are planning to seize documents before commencing a full-fledged probe.
 
 Investigators have reached a conclusion that HWW has become a minting machine for officials in GMC.
 
 Sources said the vigilance and enforcement wing has gathered credible evidence of officials helping contractors form a syndicate to loot public money. Vigilance sleuths were reportedly surprised as to how the contractors from Narasaraopet town bagged several projects in GMC. 
 
 “Although there is nothing wrong in contractors from other places getting work in GMC, it is not possible for one person to get so many projects without the tacit support of senior officials heading the HWW,” observed a senior official of vigilance and enforcement.
 
 Sources said the vigilance and enforcement wing is looking into the works handled by a contractor named Sanikommu Venkata   of Narasaraopet. They also noticed that Ramireddy started bagging works in GMC only from July 2017. Incidentally, executive engineer  , who worked for long in Narasaraopet, joined GMC on transfer only around July 2017. “It is not clear whether Ramireddy was acting as a benami for engineers in HWW,” said a vigilance official.
 
 Similarly, a Tirupati-based firm, Unik Chemicals, is single-handedly handling ferric alum and other chemical contracts for the past several years. It bagged works worth several lakhs of rupees. Several works were spilt into different packages and handed over to the same firm. It is unclear as to how a single firm has been grabbing contracts despite the fact that GMC procures stocks through open tenders. “It is clear that some of the contractors form a syndicate to avoid competition and make good gains. We have to go deep into the issue as it looks fine on paper,” said an official.
 
 The vigilance and enforcement wing, which directly reports to the chief minister’s office (CMO) through its director general, is the state government’s nodal agency to detect irregularities, misappropriation of funds and violation of rules by the government departments. The government would take all the reports and recommendations of the vigilance and enforcement department seriously and crack the whip against errant officials.
 
 
