CHANDIGARH: Chief minister   on Thursday accepted the resignation of power and irrigation minister Rana Gurjeet Singh after his meeting with party president   in New Delhi on Thursday. As the party tried to put a lid on the sand mining controversy, the state leadership also discussed restructuring of the party’s state unit ahead of the next general election.

 Sources said that   laid particular emphasis on the party being seen as taking a firm stand against corruption and it was in line with this sentiment that he left it to Amarinder to take a call on the matter of Rana Gurjit’s resignation. Contrary to speculation, there was no one-on-one between Rahul and Amarinder to discuss the resignation separately, sources added.
 
 Talking to media persons after the meeting, Amarinder said he had discussed the issue of resignation, which the minister had submitted 10 days ago, with Rahul and then decided to accept the same. The state leadership also proposed restructuring of the organizational structure, to which Rahul sought a plan, he said. “The party restructuring, especially in the context of the 2019   elections, would take place soon,” added Amarinder.
 
 The meeting’s agenda was to review the performance of   government in the past 10 months. Amarinder briefed Rahul about the debt waiver scheme and how it would be taken to the next level in the coming months. Sources said Rahul also highlighted the need for focusing on other areas of public interface in governance so that there is favourable public perception of the Congress government in the state ahead of the next general election.
 
  had given his resignation on January 4 on “moral grounds” over his alleged involvement in the sand mining scam. He had told TOI that it was a smear campaign by rival parties that prompted him to resign even though the Justice Narang commission had not found anything incriminating against him.
 
 In his resignation letter, Rana Gurjit had stated that though he had not been associated with his family business for the past 10 years, the controversy surrounding it in recent months had left him with no option but to tender his resignation in the party’s interest. 
 
 Meanwhile, Amarinder confirmed that the council of ministers would be expanded after the Ludhiana civic body elections. “As in the past, the new appointments would be a mix of youth and talent, with meritocracy the key criteria in the selection of the new ministers,” he told media persons.
 
 
 
 
  CM accepts Rana Gurjit’s resignation post-meeting
 
  Rahul asks state government to take a firm stand against corruption
 
 Amarinder to keep power and irrigation portfolio for now
 
 Cabinet expansion after Ludhiana MC polls
 
 PPCC restructuring to be taken up with Rahul soon
 
 ‘Always a Congressman’
 
 Reacting to acceptance of his resignation, Kapurthala MLA Rana   he accepted the decision of the party high command and chief minister Amarinder Singh with all humility. “I have and will always be a Congressman,” he said.
 
 The former power minister maintained that his stand (on mining scam) would soon be vindicated. He pointed out that even a judicial commission had found nothing against him. “I did no illegal act, but resigned to take the wind out of the opposition’s sails. Whatever I am today in public life is because of the Congress party and my supporters, and I will continue to serve them both with same zeal and vigour,” he said.
 
 
