HYDERABAD: Who’s happy with (Prime Minister Narendra)   after the budget? This was a pointed question from IT and municipal administration minister K T Rama Rao. On Wednesday, the minister said   had been neglected in the budget. "Yes, we are unhappy. For that matter, even TDP,

 BJP's ally in Andhra Pradesh is fuming. BJP MPs are also privately expressing unhappiness. Does anyone even understand the budget that has been presented,” asked KTR. He said representations were made to the Union government seeking Rs 40,000 crore for projects. “All that they do is come from the Centre and appreciate our programmes.
 
 KTRsaid, “But when it comes to meeting our requirements, the state is being ignored.” The minister will leave for Delhi on Thursday to meet Union ministers again to reiterate demand for funds.
 
 He said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao himself made a plea to Modi several times to declare the Kaleshwaram project and a couple of others as a ‘national project’, but this had been ignored. In an informal talk with reporters, the minister said if this was the kind of love BJP showered on people of Telangana, it would reap the same love in 2019 elections as the people would ignore it. “It is because people want K Chandrasekhar Rao as chief minister again, they will bring back TRS to power," he said. Asked how many seats the TRS would win, he quipped: “I am not an astrologer. But we know for certain TRS is coming back to power.”
 
 KTR trained guns once again at TPCC president Uttam Kumar Reddy. Reiterating he would take political sanyas if TRS did not come back to power, he said Uttam Kumar Reddy did not respond if he would do the same if   lost. “Congress is a loafer party and its leader   is a pappu. Ask Google,” he quipped expressing his ‘visceral hatred’ for Congress for neglecting development of the country.
 
 If TRS has no love for either BJP or Congress, which party will it support in the event of both of them needing it after 2019 polls? “We'll cross the bridge when we get there,” he said. “It’s like being given a choice between devil and deep sea,” he quipped.
 
