NAGPUR: Six   were felicitated with Jeevan Gaurav Puraskar at an event held on Sunday to mark the 71st foundation day of Nagpur district branch of National Integrated Medical Association. Held at  , the honours were given to doctors with 40-plus years of service.
 
 ‘Ayurveda needs more research and promotion. Health policies of government must recognize the contribution of Ayurveda. Even if Ayurveda is based on experience, its laws were explained then in a scientific way. Those are 100% correct and need further advancement,” said Rajya Sabha MP Vikas Mahatme, guest of honour. Suresh Sharma, chief managing director of Baidyanath, also praised Ayurveda for aiding India's reputation and called for more research into the field. 
 
 Giving the welcome address, president of NIMA Dr Nitin Wardhane said that NIMA had over 1,000 branches across India, which promote Indian system of medicine. Secretary of NIMA Shailesh Manekar gave the introductory speech, and asked for equivalent government recognition to contributions of Ayurveda practitioners and their inclusion in deciding health policies. Meritorious students of BAMS final year were also honoured. 
 
 Ths six eminent doctors who were felicitated are: Dr Gunwantsingh Rathod, Dr Shrikrishna Diwe, Dr Jayantilal Chotai, Dr Datta Wanjari, Dr Ashok Jaiswal and Dr Sanyukta Gokhale.
 
 Awardee Dr Gunwantsingh Rathod, MD in   from Shree Ayurveda Mahavidyalaya has been practicing Ayurveda for 46 years and retired in 2000. Rathod also worked as a lecturer in Bhausaheb Mulak Ayurveda College, Nagpur. The second awardee, Dr Shrikrishna Diwe, was a lecturer in Government Ayurveda College (GAC) and its committee member for PG courses in Nanded. Diwe was also a member of inspection committee for private colleges at Mojri, Akola and Yavatmal.
 
 Dr Jayantilal Chotai served as vice-principal of GAC in the city. On the other hand, Dr Datta Wanjari was ex-principal of Latur college and ex-lecturer of GAC, Nanded. Dr Ashok Jaiswal was also felicitated for his contribution to the field of Ayurveda. Dr Sanyukta Gokhale retired as a reader in GAC Nagpur, after 25 years of service. 
 
 ends
 
 
