GHAZIABAD:   whose land was acquired for the Eastern Peripheral Expressway held a mahapanchayat on Thursday and decided to boycott the road’s   by the   this Sunday. They are upset that their demand for a 15km service road along the expressway has not been met. 

 The farmers have announced they will block the expressway on Sunday and march to the inauguration site, and warned they would self-immolate if security agencies tried to stop them. Thursday’s mahapanchayat was held at Rewri Rewra village on Thursday.
 
 Nearly 5,000 farmers from 18 villages have parted with 344 hectares of land for the expressway. 
 
 The farmers, while giving away the land, had demanded a 15km service road running parallel to the EPE, which has been developed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). The contention of the farmers was that in the absence of a service land, the   will cut off all 16 villages along its way with practically no connectivity. The 135-km-long EPE enters Ghaziabad at Bihing village. After running for 27.7 km through 16 villages, it enters Gautam Budh Nagar via Arifpur. “The NHAI has not paid heed to our demands and we suspect that after the inauguration of EPE, the agency will abandon the service lane project altogether,” said Salek Bhaiya, secretary, Vikas Sangharsh Samiti. 
 
 “So on Thursday, we held a mahapanchayat and have decided to hold multi-pronged protests, which include blocking of EPE, holding   marches and   by farmers among others,” he added.
 
 But prior to that, the panchayats of 16 villages will vet the proposal cleared by the mahapanchayat on Thursday, Salek said. “The panchayat of all 16 villages will meet on Friday, and from Saturday, we will start the protests as decided,” he said.
 
 “We will boycott the Prime Minister’s inauguration ceremony in Baghpat on Sunday and will block the expressway. Farmers from all 16 villages through which the EPE passes have been asked to participate in the protest,” said  , convener of Vikas Sangharsh Samiti. 
 
 “We will also try to lead a protest march to the inauguration site,” added Pradhan. He also said a group of 15 protesting farmers have volunteered for self-immolation.
 
 The EPE is equipped with smart and intelligent highway traffic management system (HTMS) and video incident detection system (VIDS) besides a closed tolling system in which the collections will be made only on the distance travelled and not on the entire length and would be lit with solar lights.
 
 Earlier, an NHAI official had said that they would concentrate on the service road after the inauguration of the EPE. “We have floated tenders for the service lane which will run parallel to EPE and will connect Ghaziabad’s 16 villages. It will be built at an estimated cost of Rs 15 crore within three months,” he had said.
 
 
