Even if the rivals don’t score,   will somehow conspire to concede one of their own.
 
  FC Goa’s shambolic defending was the centre of attention again as   FC had more than just a foot in the semifinals of the Indian Super League after registering a 1-0 victory at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Thursday.
  
    was eventually named scorer of the 52nd-minute match-winner but the goal could so easily have been credited to FC Goa’s defence. With goalkeeper Naveen Kumar giving a good account of himself and palming a ball away, the home defenders simply left Jeje Lalpekhlua unmarked and then appeared to make a mess of the clearance as Bruno Pinheiro and Narayan Das got tangled among themselves. In the confusion, Pinheiro appeared to direct the ball towards his own goal where Calderon, unwittingly, got the final touch.
  
  The goal was enough for Chennaiyin to pocket three points and take a giant leap towards the playoffs with 27 points from 15 matches. Goa are now far behind with 20 points from 14 matches, and the sixth place reflects the horrendous form which has seen them collect eight points from the last nine matches and just one from the last three at home.
  
  Mathematically, Goa can still make it to the semifinals but the former finalists need a miraculous turnaround.
  
  How Chennaiyin FC knew what they were doing. The visitors came here with a plan, stifled the hosts in midfield and disturbed their flow. At the back, the defensive pairing of captain Henrique Soreno and Mailson Alves rarely allowed the hosts a look at goal. Even when the going got tough in the last quarter as Goa pushed more men forward, the defenders measured up to the challenge.
  
  Goa could say they didn’t have luck on their side. They saw three attempts hit the crossbar and Chennaiyin FC made at least two crucial goalline clearances. But for an “attacking side” that received all-round praise in the initial rounds, failure to score in two successive matches should be a matter of huge concern, particularly towards the business end of the league.
  
  Chennaiyin FC were the better team in the opening 45 minutes. Jeje and Gregory Francis made it difficult for the defenders without much success, largely due to some unusually brave goalkeeping. Naveen almost messed it up when he tried to play around with Francis inside the danger zone but fortunately got the ball back.
  
  In the second half, there was no such luck. The goal forced Goa coach Sergio Lobera to change tactics, and the introduction of Hugo Boumous gave them a new dimension. The Moroccan midfielder tried working his way past a crowded defence but the final touch was missing.
  
  Edu Bedia’s curler struck the post, Brandon Fernandes was unlucky too and a flick from Ferran Corominas somehow didn’t find the back of the net. This was not going to be Goa’s night, and it’s been like this for quite some time.
