ABU DHABI: Ahead of the fourth edition of the  , the only   World Tour of the Middle East, that has brought together 20 teams - 17 of which are World Tour teams - the top riders in the fray agreed in unison that the addition of the individual time trial stage will change the dynamics of the tour. 

 
 Spiced up this year with the new addition, the Abu Dhabi tour is as wide open as it can be and looking at the peloton that includes greats sprinters, good climbers and a few time Trial specialists, this is one race that could very well be decided with the last stroke of the pedal at  . 
 
  
  
 
 Defending champion and the home team (UAE Emirates) captain   is leading a very strong team in sprinter Alexander Kristoff and climber, 2015 Vuelta a España winner, Fabio Aru, but his own fitness, by his own admission, will hamper his chances of going for the general classification. 
 
 "Yes, I am not a 100 percent fit. I missed a few days of training in January and still recovering. I was satisfied with the work in Oman and hopefully be better for this race," he said. “The new route with a Time Trial changes the tactic. But Jabel Hafeet remains a hard climb, it’s 25 minutes of climbing. It’s not easy to be the defending champion and, racing on home soil we have many motivated riders like Aru, Kristoff and Ulissi."
 
 But despite this, UAE Emirates team is one of the strongest in the fray and with grand tour champion Aru starting off his season, he sees an opportunity to excel here, in his third appearance. 
 
 “I’m delighted to start the season with my new team here,” he said. “It’s my third time racing the Abu Dhabi Tour. The Time Trial makes it a slightly different race this time. It’ll put more riders into the mix for the overall victory.”
 
  
  
 
 While the time trial seems to have offset plans for few teams, for Team Sunweb, this plays into their hands and their captain, 2017 Giro d'Italia and reigning world time trial champion Tom Domoulin and he knows this is the ideal race for him. 
 
 “I just saw my time trial world champion jersey. It’s amazing, so I’m looking forward to wearing it,” he said. “The Abu Dhabi Tour has a perfect course for me with the Time Trial and the uphill finish. We came here with a good team, including Wilco Kelderman riding for GC.”
 
 British legend and the rider with most stage wins in the four years of Abu Dhabi Tour,   will be going all out in the sprint stages - the first three stages of the race - and giving him solid company will be the likes of Elia Viviani (Quick-Step), Andre Greipel (Lotto–Soudal) and Caleb Ewan (Mitchelton–Scott.). And the Manxman feels that vying for GC will be tough for him with most of his lead out team out of the fray. 
 
 “My legs were all right again in Oman after my stage victory in Dubai. It makes it a long time racing in the Middle East, but it’s an honour to come back to Abu Dhabi. We have a GC team here, I’ll be missing my lead out guys who are injured or sick, but I want to be successful,” said Cavendish. 
 
 For Viviani, the competition will be no less fierce than what it was in Dubai Tour and Tour of Oman. “I’ve had an amazing start to the season in Australia, which continued with winning the Dubai Tour, but I want more. I’ve spent one week at home after a long way away. For the Abu Dhabi Tour, we have a very strong team and Julian Alaphilippe for GC,” he said. “The world’s best sprinters are here. The addition of André Greipel and Caleb Ewan will not change the dynamic of the sprints we had in Dubai – we expect really powerful sprints again.”
 
 For most riders The Abu Dhabi tour is a grooming platform for the upcoming Grand Tours, and with World Tour points up for grabs and the type of the route essentially giving it a feel of mini Giro, next few days of   action will be intense. The first three days of flat out sprinting will make way for the time trial and finally with the famed Jebel Hafeet summit as grand finale, expect no clear favourites till the riders conquer the second highest mountain peak of the UAE. 
 
 
 
 
