LUDHIANA: Many roads in the city go pitch dark after sunset, in spite of having streetlights. A recent survey carried out by the Ludhiana municipal corporation ( ) has revealed that 8,000 of the 1.05 lakh streetlights in the city are non-functional. 

 The non-functional streetlights make up about 7% of the total streetlights in the city. The problem is the most severe in areas falling under the civic body’s Zone A, like Haibowal, Udham Singh Nagar, Rose Garden road, Shivaji Nagar, Kashmir Nagar, Dharampura, Link Road from Cheema Chowk to Samrala Chowk, Model Town, Laxmi Nagar, Janakpuri, Aman Nagar, Peerubanda, Punjabi Bagh, and Dugri.
 
 The MC has outsourced the job of maintaining the streetlights to private firms. 
 
 A shopkeeper and resident of Haibowal, Veena Kapoor, said the survey was “cent percent” true. “The problem has worsened in the past six months. The MC had gotten lights near our house repaired a few days ago, but they have stopped functioning again,” she said. “This has also encouraged anti-social elements to go about doing what they like.”
 
 MC executive engineer  , when contacted, admitted to non-functional streetlights becoming a “problem”. He, however, claimed that the civic body was on the job and contractors had been asked to increase the pace of work, so that complaints could be redressed. “As far as LED streetlights are concerned, representatives of the company which is handling the project are expected to reach the city soon. After this, they will start replacing ordinary streetlights with LED ones,” he said. 
 
 Echoing a similar opinion, a resident of Civil Lines, A S Kapoor, said repair and maintenance of streetlights was poor and the MC had not taken its job seriously. “I hope the situation improves once LED lights are installed,” he said. 
 
 Even councillors and former councillor have raised the issue with officials. A former deputy mayor,  , said people had been continuously complaining about non-functional streetlights. “It is really easy for snatchers to go scot-free when roads enveloped in darkness,” he said. “The MC needs get its act together.”
 
 
