MUMBAI: Three   and an Indian accomplice have been arrested for debit card   in   in January. They are suspected to be involved in the cloning of over 50 cards in Vasai in which bank customers lost nearly Rs 10 lakh. Richard Mago (32) from Lagos (Nigeria), Hillary Kigen (27) from Nairobi (Kenya),   (20) from Kampala (Uganda) and Kamal Khan (32) from   were captured on the closed circuit television (CCTV) camera of a nationalised bank   at Tamtalav in Vasai (W) on January 20.

 Mago and Damba stayed at Shan-E-Elahi hotel in Masjid Bunder, while Kigen stayed in a rented flat in Nalasopara (W). The Africans were arrested on February 25 by Thane rural police when they came to Mira Road to meet Khan and discuss their plans. Khan is originally from Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh. They have been handed over to Vasaigaon police. 
 
 Ashraf Shaikh, Riya Dias and Helen Andrades had withdrawn cash on January 20 and received text alerts. Three days later, they got fresh alerts of cash withdrawals. They were shocked as they had not made any fresh withdrawal and their cards were in their possession. Shaikh lost Rs 33,000, Andrades Rs 38,000 and Dias Rs 10,500. All withdrawals were done from ATMs in Bhayander. 
 
 They approached their banks, blocked the cards and filed police complaints.
 
 CCTV footage captured the faces of the Africans, and they were seen tampering with the machine. When arrested they confessed to having placed skimmers in the ATM to capture data. Police seized debit cards of Indian and foreign banks from them.
 
 Around 30 customers of a private bank became victims of debit card cloning on February 14 and 15, when Rs 10 lakh was stolen from accounts of those who had used their cards at an ATM near a gurudwara in Vasai (W). All withdrawals were done from ATMs in Haryana. Police said the same gang is suspected to have fixed a skimmer in the ATM. They placed the skimmer in the ATM early in the morning and removed it in the evening, after the data was copied on fake and expired cards.
 
 In August 2017, mass cloning of debit cards was reported from Nalasopara east and west, and then too Rs 10 lakh was stolen.
 
 Police investigations revealed that Mago and Damba were the brains behind the skimming. 
 
 
