JAIPUR: The investigation into illegal   on 15 labourers from   is hitting a dead end.

 Jaipur’s   station had taken suo motu cognizance of the case on April 20 but has failed to get to the basis so far. The medical test of 15 victims is vital to establish the crime but has not been done even after five days.
 
 Medical experts say that influence of any chemical in the body lasts for maximum of 2-3 days. Ideally,   had the   recordings of the respective days by now but TOI has learnt that police have not even approached the hospital for the recordings. Eleven victims testified that they spent two days in the hospital in the basement but police are yet to zero in on any eye-witness.
  
  
 Despite recorded statements containing several clues and hints the police have failed to act has not only weakened the case but provided a major relief to those who are behind it. SHO of Vishwakarma Police Station, Ratan Singh says that they are investigating the matter but when asked why no medical test of victims were conducted, he said, “That is the duty of drug control team.” Have you collected the CCTV footage from the hospital, the SHO after a brief pause, said, “I will find out and inform you.”
 
 Till the last report came, Singh didn’t didn't update on the status CCTV footage. Earlier in the day, TOI spoke to Rajendra Singh, ASI, who recorded the statement of 11 victims and asked any action taken against the hospital on the basis of statements. Singh passed the buck on the senior officers for handling the investigation.
 
 Police has also failed to question or interrogate the agents-- Sher Singh and Bhur Singh who lured the villagers to the hospital. Both were named by the victims for taking them to the hospital and were absconding till April 23 afternoons. Both fled on April 20 fearing action from the villagers and police appeared in the village Digaria. “I am ready to co-operate the police but no one has approached me. I am ready to identify the hospital staffs including a doctor and his driver who admitted to have conducted drug test on us,” said Singh.
 
 After they learn that the absence of medical test will weaken the case. Few victims went to the community health centre at Bidasar for medical test but were refused by the doctor.
 
 Sohan Lal, a 19-year-old, is among the 11 victims visited the community health centre and was told unless police or authorities direct them they cannot carry out check-up. Medical experts say that it is unlikely to trace the chemical in the body. Dr Bhawna Sharma, neuro-physicist at SMS hospital says that every medicine life cycle is divided into four stages and last till two days, in case, it has not developed any negative reaction. “The medicine is absorbed in the body through different ways oral, injected and veins. It is distributed throughout the body through blood and landed in liver for break-up before the remaining chemical exited through excreta or urine. It is most unlikely to trace the chemicals in the body after 2-3 days,” said Sharma.
 
 Unanswered questions
 
 1. Why police didn’t question the hospital staff?
 
 2. Why medical test not conducted on all victims?
 
 3. Why no CCTV footage seized?
 
 4. Why hospital register not seized?
 
 5. Why agents—Sher Singh and Bhur Singh— questioned?
 
 6. Why no effort was made to verify the testimonies of victims
 
 
