MUMBAI: To woo the   who depend on  , the BEST plans to operate 200 mini buses—both AC and non-AC—along the north-south and east-west corridors, connecting suburbs with   such as the Bandra-Kurla Complex,  , Fort, Colaba and Nariman Point.

 BMC chief Ajoy Mehta, on whose suggestion BEST plans to induct these vehicles, said, “Procuring AC mini buses on wet lease will improve efficiency of service, ensure buses run to full capacity and the cash-strapped undertaking can save crores of rupees on maintenance and operations.” The existing fleet of 284 AC buses (single-decker Ceritas) was taken off roads in April 2016 and is now put up for scrap.
 
 Mehta has issued a one-month ultimatum to the BEST to initiate the process of procuring these mini buses. He has also threatened to recover the Rs 21 crore given as Diwali bonus to employees from their February salaries if the BEST panel failed to implement the 'turnaround measures' which includes clearing a proposal for procuring 200 mini buses.
 
 The BEST management put up the proposal before the committee a few weeks ago, but it is pending for discussions. It has also proposed purchase of 25 Midi buses. BEST general manager Surendrakumar Bagde said, “We want the proposal to be cleared by January end. The panel should expedite the procurement of AC Mini buses as we have a freeze on purchasing new buses and new vehicles will be taken only on wet-lease.”
 
 He said the mini buses will have good turnaround time. “Since these are small buses, they can move faster and can pass through small lanes and bylanes," he said.
 
 According to a senior BEST official, the AC Mini buses will be run along north-south and east-west corridors. “In near future, we also plan to introduce a few AC buses for seat bookings through the mobile app—just like the aggregator model (Ola shuttle),'' the official added.
 
 Sources said the mini buses are likely to run between Thane and Colaba as well as between Dahisar/Mira Road and Cuffe Parade. The AC mini buses will also connect Navi Mumbai and Thane to the commercial hubs in the island city. Some of these buses could also be deployed on busy feeder routes outside railway stations, sources added.
 
 When contacted, BEST committee chairman Anil Kokil said, “We have implemented 82% of reforms suggested by BMC. The wet-lease proposal is pending for discussions and we need some time.”
 
 
