Telly actress   never thought of becoming an actress when she was growing up in Agra. When she was in her third year of college, she decided to try her luck in showbiz. Currently playing the role of a courtesan in period drama Prithvi Vallabh- Itihaas Bhi, Rahasya Bhi, Divyanganaa was recently in Agra to meet her parents on their wedding anniversary. She took the opportunity to visit the  , which is on till February 28, where she relived her childhood memories.

  
  Divyanganaa Jain went on a shopping spree at Taj Mahotsav
 
 
 
 Divyanganaa had left Agra when she was in class VIII, since her father, a government employee, was transferred to  . Recalling her visits to the Taj Mahotsav as a kid, she said, "I used to visit the Taj Mahotsav every year with my parents. It was this annual grand festival for which we would wait for the entire year. But now it seems that the local residents are not really interested in it. I felt that the festival has now become only for tourists. Earlier, from the very first day of the festival, youngsters – school and college students with their groups – would throng the place. It also appeared quieter to me this time."
 
  
  Divyanganaa in   - Itihaas Bhi, Rahasya Bhi
 
 
 
 Though Divyanganaa never planned to become an actor, like every Bollywood fan, she used to dance in front of the mirror. “I was part of the theatre group in my college, but I had never dreamed of becoming an actor. But then when a senior of mine in college left engineering to follow his dream of becoming a filmmaker, I thought of giving it a try, too. I shot for my portfolio in the fourth year of my graduation and soon left for Mumbai. Coming from a small city in UP, it was initially very difficult to convince my parents to allow me to go to Mumbai. But eventually, they allowed me and now I’m glad that I have made them proud,” she said.
 
  
  
 
 
 Divyanganaa, who is playing a courtesan in Prithvi Vallabh, said that she had prepared really hard for her role. She said, "Since I had never done a period drama before this, I had to prepare really hard for the role. I visited a brothel to get the feel of the character. Though time has changed now and it’s not same as it used to be, I felt that it would help me imagine my character better. I also took Kathak lessons, since Kosha is adept in singing and dancing. I also watched films like ' ', ' ' and ' ' to get into the character." 
 But it was not easy for Divyanganaa to explain to her parents about this role. "I didn’t tell them about the kind of role I was going to play in Prithvi Vallabh because I didn’t know how they would react. I told them that it is a bold role. It was only after watching a few episodes on TV that they got to know how bold it was! But then they understood that it was the demand of the character. Ab Mumbai gaye hain toh kuch substantial toh karna hai. Warna parents bhi sochenge ki unka naam khraab kar diya," she said.
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
