LUDHIANA: The   (GRP) officials have arrested four drug peddlers including two women and recovered 60kg of poppy husk from their possession during an inspection drive at the city railway station on Tuesday evening.

 Police officials have revealed the identity of the all four arrested accused, who belongs to Shivpal Colony of Jagraon area. The accused have been identified as Gurmail (42), son of Pal   and his wife Asha, Rajbir (25), son of Charanjit Singh, Kamo (19) daughter of Bittu. All of them were on their way to give a drug consignment to their unknown customers in the peripheral areas of the city.
 
 Speaking on the issue, Ludhiana GRP in-charge, Inderjit Singh, said, “Two different police teams have arrested the accused who were roaming around on different platforms of the city railway station with 60kg of poppy husk on Tuesday night. All four accused were residents of Jagroan area and worked in different groups,” he said.
 
 Singh also said preliminary investigation has revealed the accused brought poppy husk from a district in Maharashtra. “They wanted to supply the drug consignment to their unknown customers in the peripheral areas of the city here,” said Singh.
 
 He further added, “The police officials got to know all four accused are proclaimed offenders (POs) as several cases have already been registered in their name in the Ludhiana GRP police station.”
 
 In the meantime, a case has been filed against the accused under section 20/61/85 of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. “Police officials would represent in the local court and ask for remand for further investigation in this case,” SHO said.
 
 Sources in the railway police department have revealed that in the last one year, a heavy amount of banned substance has been recovered from the drug peddlers arrested from the city railway station. The local police officials have received orders from the higher authorities to check every nook and corner of the station even during late night hours.
 
 The higher authority believes most drug peddlers are using the railway route to supply these banned substance to the city. To keep a check on the illegal practice, a number of police officials are deployed at the check post too.
 
 
