LUCKNOW: From arranging Lucknow’s iconic ‘dopalli topi’ to ‘itras’ in select fragrances and even special spa sessions, top hotels in the city booked for Investors’ Summit are all decked and prepared to receiving their guests with excitement levels peaking.

 The staff of Novotel hotel has planned a   touch to its grand welcome. “We want to give a glimpse of modern Avadh to our guests flying in from Mumbai, Kolkata and other states. ‘Dopalli topi’ and ‘ittars’ will be ready to welcome them. There will be   and Makkhan Malai in addition to intercontinental cuisine in breakfast menu,” said Novotel’s general manager  .
 
 
 The   and Convention Centre has also kept its distance from Indira Gandhi Pratisthan (IGP) in mind for guests’ convenience. “We have made a special google map, transforming it into an image, which will be sent to guests so that they can reach IGP easily without any hassles. We have also kept aside a fleet of 12 cars exclusively for them,” said Ramada  , Joyjit. He added, “Our team has researched about the guests through social media and websites so that we give them the best service.”
 
 Teams of the hotels had started brainstorming a month in advance to be able to give their best. And though most big industrialists would be flying in on February 21 itself, their teams have already started checking in to see if the amenities are to their bosses’ liking.
 
 “Our chairman is too coming for the summit, his team has already reached to check, recheck facilities to the last detail. We will welcome guests with the traditional ‘aarti’ and ‘teeka’,” said   hotel’s GM, Sanjay Pant.
 
 The chefs at Hyatt Regency are planning a grand breakfast experience for their guests. “Since the guests will be leaving for venue by 8.30am, the breakfast will be elaborate with a mix of regional food from across states,” said GM, Kumar Shobhan. “We have arranged special spa sessions in morning and evening and a therapist will be available for a quick shoulder massage to help destress,” he added. Hyatt chefs have also readied special ‘Gajak cheesecake’.
 
 At Taj Vivanta, the emphasis is on Awadhi cuisine and   tehzeeb. “We will serve the traditional ‘Baigan ka salan’ and ‘Bhindi kurkuri’ and other such ethnic recipes,” said GM Vikas Yadav.
 
