Considered the penultimate step in relocating the congested   to the new integrated market facility on the city outskirts, agriculture marketing and the agriculture business department along with the district administration have started the structural modification works in the new facility to accommodate traders. Civil works to club the 500 shops on the ground floor into 250 shops are under way. Earlier, the traders were hesitant to move to the new facility citing inadequate space.   said that they were expecting at least 100-150 traders initially to occupy the integrated market.

 The over century -old Gandhi Market, which is a commercial hub of at least 10 districts in the central zone, was expanded last during the pre-Independence era. Situated in the heart of the city, the market also happens to the epicentre of frequent traffic congestion. Earlier, to decongest the market,   district administration, at an estimated cost of Rs65 crore, took up the construction of an integrated vegetable and fruit market on 9.7 acres on the city outskirts at   in 2014. The works were apparently completed in mid-2017. Even though the facility was formally inaugurated last year, it was lying unoccupied owing to the resistance from traders in the existing market to shift their business. Authorities said that the agriculture marketing department recently obtained the administrative sanction form agriculture department to make the required structural modification in Kallikudi integrated vegetable market to address the demand of the traders for more space.
 
 "After completing the ongoing works, we would invite traders to occupy the facility. We expect 100-150 traders who are operating on rental space, will make use of the modified facility," an official source with agriculture marketing department said. Sources added that the structural modification works are expected to conclude in a month.
 
 Traders alleged that they were not consulted during the construction works of the integrated vegetable market complex. Stating that the whole episode, including expenditure incurred to modify the facility would have been avoided, if they were assured of adequate space in the new facility. "We do not have any issues in moving to the new market. Our concern is that we need adequate facilities for shifting our base. Traders who are operating from rental shops in Gandhi Market may shift to the new place. It has also got practical difficulty, our sales and profit would remain intact only if all of us stay nearby," N  , secretary of Onion and Potato wholesale dealers association in Gandhi Market told TOI.
 
 It seems that even the traders do not have many options as the efforts made by the traders’ to construct their own market went in vain owing to the high cost of land in city. Authorities claimed that making a few wholesale traders to occupy the refurbished integrated vegetable market post completion of the works would invite other traders in Gandhi Market to shift to the new facility.
 
 
