NEW DELHI: Chief Election Commissioner   on Tuesday said the ‘office-of-profit’ case against 20   MLAs would have required a re-hearing had his predecessor A K   retired without the EC finalising its opinion to the President. This, he indicated, would have further delayed the case proceedings that had already dragged on for two years. 

 On electoral bonds scheme, Rawat, who took charge as   on Tuesday following Joti’s retirement, said EC was yet to formulate its views on whether it met the commission’s transparency concerns. Then CEC Nasim Zaidi had, in an interview to TOI last year, objected to the budget proposal saying it would exempt political parties from revealing details of contributions received by way of electoral bonds, to the EC or to the public. 
 
 Rawat said the commission’s secretariat was examining the electoral bonds scheme and would submit its opinion to EC in the next 2-3 days on what concerns had been met and what remained. “Our final view will (then) emerge and we will respond to the scheme accordingly,” he said. Asked to comment on AAP’s charge that EC had decided OoP case in haste, Rawat said: “The timing is determined by the flow of events. Three commissioners have heard the case — Dr Zaidi, Joti and myself. 
 
 The commission works on either unanimity or majority. When Dr Zaidi retired, only one commissioner was there (hearing the case),” he told TOI. This was because Rawat had then recused himself from the case in view of Delhi chief minister   accusing both Rawat and Joti of ‘bias’. “The commission felt it (OoP case) won’t be decided unless the second commissioner is on board. So CEC requested me and I agreed to come on board. Again a situation was arising that he (Joti) was retiring and I would be alone. 
 
 So the matter would be open for re-hearing. So either you decide or you leave it open. As such, it (hearing) has already taken two years...” noted the newCEC. Rawat opined that pendency of AAP’s plea in the high court, challenging EC’s order for continuation of ‘office-of-profit’ hearing, did not restrict the commission from finalising its opinion as there was no stay. 
 
 The CEC underlined that two notices were sent to 20 AAP MLAs seeking their response. “They responded on something which was not in context of the notices.”
 
