NEW DELHI: The government’s tussle with L-G reverberated in the assembly on Monday after speaker   announced that   has said that the speaker cannot accept any question on reserved subjects, such as land, law and order and services, among others. 

 The latest flashpoint was over the House not being provided answers on foreign trips undertaken by officers of the city government in the last 15 years. 
 
 Goel announced that “LG has in a letter advised that, legally, the speaker of Delhi assembly cannot admit any question on any reserved subject”. MLA Raguvinder Shokeen had wanted to know details of official foreign trips undertaken by officers of Delhi government, municipal corporations and autonomous bodies during the last 15 years and also what the outcome of these tours was. Last week, a question about the foreign trips of ministers and MLAs had gone unanswered. 
 
 Goel said the LG’s letter had communicated the advice received from the department of legal affairs of the central government through the home ministry.
 
 As MLAs, including deputy CM Manish Sisodia, hit out at  , Goel ruled that “the officers should realise that legislation on reserved subjects and seeking replies on matters of public interest, which directly affect the people of Delhi, are two different issues”. Goel added that “officers are duty-bound to provide replies to all questions that are admitted”.
 
 The speaker said “any attempt from anyone, whatsoever post he may hold, to deny information to the assembly and its committees shall be viewed seriously”. He forwarded the question to the privilege committee of the assembly, adding that all questions, replies to which have not been received from the departments concerned, stood referred to the committee.
 
 Sisodia said in the past, replies from   and   were provided to the assembly and claimed that the LG’s letter was sent without informing the minister concerned and the matter should be probed. “Delhi assembly is not a subordinate body of a babu sitting in the central government,” Sisodia added.
 
 “Replies to these questions can lift the veil on their (officials’) wrongdoings in the last 20 years,” Sisodia said. He alleged the “denial of the information” was an attempt to hide the “sins” of the past.
 
 Leader of opposition Vijender Gupta backed AAP MLAs’ demand for answers to these questions.
 
 Meanwhile, AAP MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj moved a resolution, urging the AAP government to present an outcome report on LG’s office because “the LG has not given approval to different projects of the government”.
 
 
