PUNE: The rural police on Wednesday arrested three accomplices of gangster-turned-politician Arun Gawli for trying to extort Rs 5 lakh from a trader in Chandannagar. 

 The three men had threatened the trader of dire consequences and also ransacking his two shops in Loni Dhamani near Manchar and another outlet in  .
 
 Among the arrested is Mobin Mehmood Mujawar (26) of Vadgaon Pir, who is the nephew of Gawli’s wife, Asha. He also works as her personal assistant. The other two, Suraj Rajesh Yadav (20) of Vadgaon Pir and Bala Sudam Pathare (24) of Chandannagar, are also members of Gawli’s  . 
 
 The local crime branch team, led by inspector  , arrested them after the trader lodged a complaint with the Manchar police on Tuesday. They were charged under sections 385 and 387 of IPC. A local court on Wednesday remanded them in police custody till April 23.
 
 The complainant runs a dry fruits shop in Wagholi and a cement shop in Loni Dhamani. On April 13, he received a call from a man who had introduced himself as Suraj Yadav, a member of Akhil Bharatiya Sena. He asked the trader to send Rs 5 lakh if he wanted to run his shops smoothly. “As the trader did not pay heed to the call, Mujawar and Yadav sent a person to his shop in Loni Dhamani and threatened him,” assistant inspector Nilkanth Jagtap told TOI.
 
 The trader still refused to pay the money, following which the caller got in touch with him and connected him to a woman. She also demanded money from him. “Pathare visited the trader’s shop in Wagholi and threatened him. Some men also visited the garment shop of his cousin in Loni Dhamani for money. They threatened to ransack the shops kill the trader.”
 
 Jagtap said probe revealed that Yadav, who also works at the farmhouse of Asha in Vadgaon Pir, had made the extortion calls following Mujawar’s orders. “We are probing about the woman,” he said. 
 
 “Probe revealed that the suspects had recently extorted money from a village sarpanch in Ambegaon taluka, a grocery shop owner and a person running a toddy outlet by threatening them in Gawli’s name. They, however, did not choose to approach the police,” Jagtap said.
 
 
