BENGALURU: For the first time,   (KSRP) personnel deployed for long hours in public places will have easy access to something as basic as a toilet. A brand new bus fitted with a western-style loo has been made available to them since March 30, much to the collective relief of the forces.

 Until now, officers working in places like KR Circle, Vidhana Soudha and other areas on the police commissioner’s orders would have to hunt high and low for places to relieve themselves. They’d either have to find someone’s house, go to Hotel Chalukya or the Legislators’ Home. The problem was more acute for women cops who were even reluctant to escalate the matter.
 
 The redesigning of the bus cost Rs 1.5 lakh and senior officials said they are considering providing more such buses to the 12 KSRP and 2 India   (IRB) battalions stationed across the state.
 
 According to Bhaskar Rao, additional director-general of police of KSRP and IRB, the provision in the bus is the first step towards setting up ‘gender-based lawand-order infrastructure’.
 
 “It was the most-needed facility and the bus has been widely appreciated by all. Not just women, even men needed a toilet; it’s a question of basic human dignity. However, this is only a prototype. After some use, we will look at the changes we can incorporate to make the facility better, as the bus will have to traverse long distances,” said Rao.
 
 There are approximately 14,000 reserve police personnel stationed across Karnataka and the new buses will benefit them all. Rao said that with growing number of women staff, particularly in rural areas, the need for a facility like this was felt all the more.
 
 The reserve police are called into action in contingency situations on directions from the commissioner of police. The toilet has been installed in the bus that they use to travel from one spot to another. The vehicle is also fitted with a drinking water dispenser, an ammunition rack, storage of tear gas guns and shells and space for kitchen equipment. For the next set of buses, senior officials are contemplating changing the make of the toilet from a porcelain one to a stainless steel one and switching from hinged to sliding doors.
 
  
  
 
 
 
