Madurai: What if sanitary workers who “whistle and drive away” those trying to relieve in the open are themselves forced to defecate outside? Around 40 families of sanitation workers of the city corporation residing in Kakkan Colony at Obula Padithurai in Madurai have been doing exactly that. 

 This has been happening at a time when the state claims to have constructed 4,000 toilets on an average every day for the last two years according to data on the Swachh Bharat Mission website. 
 
 Says M Amudhan, a ninth standard student hailing from the colony, “I go to the channel (Panaiyur Channel) next to our locality to defecate. I make sure that I finish it as early as possible to evade people.” Neither his house nor his locality has a public toilet. There is a private toilet nearby, but he cannot afford to pay Rs 10 every day for using it, he says with a tinge of embarrassment. The residents earlier used to defecate on the Vaigai river bank. With the corporation authorities beefing up vigilance in recent days to prevent open defecation, they have nowhere to go now. 
 
 “While the men go to the channel, women in the locality have to defecate on the river bank at nights. There are many adolescent girls, who too do not have any other option,” said R Ramkumar, a resident. A corporation sanitary employee, who did not wanted to be named, said that in the mornings they used to drive away those who came to defecate on the river bank by whistling. But at night they had to look the other way as their own women went to relieve themselves. 
 
 The colony which falls under ward 50 of the city corporation was inaugurated by former minister and dalit leader P Kakkan in 1955, according to a stone plaque which is still intact. M Velvizhi, another resident, said that there was no public toilet available in the area for men, although there was one for women near the river. However, it is not used as water runs out quite frequently and it takes long to fill the tank. It was also unclean. 
 
 Curiously enough, it was after a year of ceaseless efforts that the corporation authorities came forward to construct toilets in 15 houses. But, except for three houses, none of the others has been usable. 
 
 “Since there is no water either, people continue to prefer open defecation,” said F Selvarasu, an autorickshaw driver from the colony demanding a separate public toilet for men and to maintain the existing women’s toilet properly. 
 
 When contacted, an official of the civic corporation said that apart from 15 houses, the remaining dwellings were unauthorised and there was a proposal from the slum clearance board to create housing facility for them. “We will look at building a new public toilet for men. The existing one can be partitioned so that men can also use it,” he said.
 
 
