HYDERABAD: Cases booked against parents of eight girl inmates of   have become a hurdle in their adoption process. These girls are not in the adoption pool of Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) as FIRs were lodged against their parents for trying to sell or kill them. 

 Speaking to TOI, Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS)   project director BP Pushpalatha said, "All girls at   are from the Lambada tribal community. In 2017, at least 184 girls were adopted from Nalgonda Sishu Gruha after an online procedure. Three were adopted by foreign couples, with two sent to the US and one to Denmark. Other adoptions were within the country and were taken up according to CARA rules. After relinquishing the child, parents can return within 60 days. If they don't, they lose legal rights. The process of adoption takes one to two years. Most parents don't return after abandoning their babies." 
 
  
  
 
 "In legal cases, we can't proceed with adoption. There are around eight children whose parents have been booked. In three years, 21 FIRs have been registered for sale of girl children and murder. In 2017, the number of FIRs has risen. Most cases are from   in Nalgonda. Unless cases are resolved, we can't give kids for adoption," she added.
 
 Officials said infant girls are sold for 25,000 to 1 lakh. "Apart from Devarakonda, there are also cases from Nalgonda town and Miryalaguda. In one such case, parents claimed the child died of illness. We sent the body for forensic examination. Later, parents confessed to killing the baby," she said. 
 
  and child welfare department joint director Anuradha told TOI, "We are following guidelines of CARA. Since 2015, adoption applications are processed online. In 2017, 678 children from   were adopted, not just from Sishu Gruhas but from hospitals too." 
 
 Devarakonda deputy superintendent of police D   said, "There are instances of parents secretly disposing the body after killing the girl child. There are cases like in Chandampet, where parents went to Guntur for work and sold the baby."
 
 Police also launched a campaign with Baujis or elders of   tribe. "Tribals follow their word. Earlier, they would tell people that the male child is important for the family. We made them educate villagers that girls are as vital to a family. The campaign was launched in 50 villages," said the DSP.
 
 
