Pune: Donald Trump Junior, son of US President Donald Trump, is very excited about the realty market in Pune and the rest of India. Though Trump Organisation is not in a position to invest in the Indian market at the moment, Trump Jr, who co-heads the organisation with his brother Eric, assured his company will “definitely” look to invest more in the city and across India in the future.

 Trump Organisation has avoided venturing into any new international deals that could lead to conflicts of interest. Trump Jr said his father’s presidency has given Trump Organisation a chance to streamline the company.
 
 “We have limited ourselves and are not doing any new international deals. That takes a big part of what we are doing right off the table. It has been great to be able to do that — to really streamline the company and focus on operations. Sometimes, you need to do that. It has been a fascinating reset. It has been great to focus on some of our existing assets,” he told TOI on the sidelines of the launch of Tower B of Trump Towers in Pune.
 
 Trump Jr was all praise for Panchshil Realty, the makers of Trump Towers in Kalyaninagar. He said the project is on par with many other projects under the Trump brand name in the emerging world. “The level of finish is totally unique. What the Chordias (of Panchshil Realty) have done here in terms of innovation is like what my father did in innovation in the US 30 years ago,” he said.
 
 When asked if he would in the future take the direct route to invest in India, instead of just lending the Trump brand name, he said: “In time, perhaps. With the partnerships that I have established in India, I would rather do stuff with them.”
 
 He said in the future, the organisation will “definitely” look to invest more in the city and across India.
 
 Trump Jr said it took him and his team about a decade to firm up the company’s India strategy and a few mistakes were made along the way. “I have spent about a decade looking around in India. It has taken a few years to get it right. I made all the mistakes you could make. We are trying to find the right people. In time, we look forward to getting back and build the brand that we have,” he said.
 
 Trump Jr said that though his organisation knows the Indian market “intimately” now, it is “unfortunate” that it cannot invest in the country for the time being.
 
 
