TRICHY: In a move which could perhaps fulfil the long standing demand of the city, the   (TCC) has invited proposals from consultants to prepare a Detailed Project Report (DPR) within a month for the Integrated Bus Terminus (IBT) in the city. The civic body has stated that 90 acres of land is available at the proposed site. Now it has asked the consultants to prepare a layout with as many as 25 provisions and amenities in the facility.

 It may be recalled that during the MGR centenary celebrations held in Trichy on October 26, 2017, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswamy announced that the IBT would come up in  , for which a site was identified by Trichy Corporation near  . For the proposed project to be set up in 90 acres, the Urban Local Body ( ) has planned separate bays for town buses, mofussil buses, inter-state buses, and also tourist buses. Besides, the consultant to be selected by the civic body will also be asked to identify parking lots for cars, auto-rickshaws, two-wheeler and dormitory for drivers.
 
 "The consultants who are willing to prepare the DPR have to submit their bids before January 19. Once selected, the consultant will have to furnish a detailed concept plan comprising all essential inputs within a month which includes a report on access ways available for the proposed IBT," a senior official with Trichy Corporation told TOI. Once the project layout was prepared, the DPR will be superimposed in the satellite imagery to comprehend the practicality of the plan. The ULB officials said financial outlay of the project would be decided based on the DPR.
 
 Parallel to the DPR sought for Kottapattu site, as an alternative, the corporation has also invited proposals from consultants to prepare a DPR for the Panchapur site as well, where 27 acres of land was available for the IBT facility. However, it is learnt that the civic body prefers Kottapattu site as it has the approval of the Chief Minister. A proper plan for the IBT would be ready in 2018, sources said.
 
 At present around 3,650 bus services (government fleets alone) are being operated from the central bus stand situated in heart of the city. The 5-acre bus stand is a complete mismatch in handling 2 lakh passengers daily. Though the district administration and civic body operate two temporary bus stands every year during the festival days, a permanent solution to establish an integrated bus terminus has been evading for the past 20 years.
 
 
