India’s phenomenal success in world   is a result of the players’ enormous self-belief that they can take on the might, and tame, the best in business, feels chief national coach Pullela  .
 
  The former   has been national coach since 2006 and is credited with shaping a generation of Indian badminton stars including Olympic medallists Saina Nehwal and PV Sindhu. Both stars are now in Australia for the Commonwealth Games 2018 and expectations, not surprisingly, are skyrocketing.
  
  “The players do believe today that they can beat anyone in the world and that’s a great thing, Physically, we’ve grown stronger and we’ve been able to get the numbers (taking to the sport) as well. Each one’s confidence is rubbing off on the other,” said Gopichand, who was handed a four-year extension during the annual general body meeting of the Badminton Association of India (BAI) in Goa on Tuesday.
  
  Saina and Sindhu are expected to battle for gold at Gold Coast but that’s unlikely to be the only gold that Indian shuttlers will be targeting. Smart money will be on   and   to go all the way, surpassing former champion Lee Chong Wei in the men’s singles, while the men’s doubles pair can also prove that India is now a badminton power at the Commonwealth Games.
  
  “We won about five medals during the last edition and I do hope we can better that tally. Having said that, individual players and teams from countries like Malaysia, England and Canada are strong, and they will be competitive. We are a strong nation and we will come back with a good number of medals (from the Commonwealth Games),” said Gopichand.
  
  Olympic silver medallist Sindhu suffered an ankle injury during training in Hyderabad last week but there is good news for fans. Sindhu has already started training and should be fit enough for the tournament.
  
  “She is better. Yesterday, before she left (for Australia), she had some training and as per the doctors, we are good. I think it’s a sprain that needs about a week (to heal), so she should be good,” said Gopichand.
