KALYAN: The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Thane police arrested a couple—Shriram Samudra and his wife Anagha—and two of their family members on Thursday for allegedly duping 3,060 investors across the state of Rs 400 crore by way of a Ponzi scheme floated by their firm,  .   Samudra is the managing director of the firm.

 The other two family members held were Shiram’s cousin Kaivalya and Kaivalya’s mother Supriti. They were produced in a Kalyan court and given police custody till March 13. The firm, promoted by the Samudra family, has been functioning for 30 years and most of its investors are from Badlapur, Ambernath, Kalyan, Thane and Pune.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 While EOW sources said Shirram had been on the run since an FIR was lodged in the matter in May 2017, the other three had been given interim relief by the special   of Depositors Act (MPIDA) court in Kalyan, which ended recently. Earlier, the EOW had arrested Shriram’s father Suhas and his wife Sunita, the founders of Sagar Investments.
 
 EOW officials probing the cheating case since it was lodged in May last said that they had received complaints from 3,060 investors across Maharashtra. An official said that though the principal amount invested by all the investors comes to around Rs 149 crore, the complaint lodged talks about Rs 400 crore as it includes the interest that the firm did not pay.
 
 The firm had offered 8% to 15% interest on investments for many years but had defaulted on paying interest since November 2016, prompting investors to lodge a complaint with the Badlapur police.
 
 Most of the people cheated by the firm are women and senior citizens who have invested their savings and retirement benefits in the firm, officials said.
 
 Sagar Investments, which claimed to be a Sebi-approved sub-broker, offered advice on investments, insurance, retirement plans and ran several money-doubling schemes. It also claimed that it offered a range of services for high net worth individuals and   under one roof.
 
 While Shriram Samudra handled the main Badlapur and Ambernath branches, Kaivalya and his mother Supriti were handling the Pune office, officials said.
 
 Sandeep Bhajibhakare, deputy commissioner of police, Thane EOW said, “We have frozen 38 bank accounts and Rs 3 crore in bank accounts and seized 39 properties worth Rs 70 crore.” The EOW has also approached the court to auction the seized properties, for which purpose they have roped in the special development officer of Ulhasnagar zone, so that investors’ money can be returned to them.
 
 When the accused were brought before court, many investors gathered there shouted slogans against them.
 
