A recent visit to   took Team   back to their   days and triggered a ‘whose college is the best’ debate! They also shared that shooting in Delhi is very special for them as they all have so many stories and memories here

 
 
 
  It was great. The crowd was really enthusiastic and they were singing songs from the movie. It was really nice to be back in DU, since all of us studied here. I am from  , Sidharth is from  , Neeraj sir is from Sri Aurobindo College and   from  .
 
  Mere ghar walon ka sapna poora ho gaya. They always wanted me to get into SRCC. And now I have!
 
  
  
 
 
 S
  Arey mat poocho yaar. Woh dukh bhare din.
 
  He basically wants to forget everything that you are asking, no academic questions allowed!
 
 
 
 
  Aurobindo is a very popular college. I’ll stop there. PAUSE. 
 
 
 
 That’s the reason I took the pause! 
 
 JMC was more like a school. It’s quite strict. 
 
  Ramjas was a great mix of everything. The History department was the best. The teachers were fantastic, and there were so many activities going on. Plus all the 'badmaashi'. When I came to Ramjas, a lot of Bihari students were just coming in. And the local students were always at loggerhead with them. I was away from all this because I was completely devoted to my theatre activities in college.
 Ramjas was politically very very active and hosted great seminars.
 
  The best thing that I learned in Bhagat Singh was driving! But jokes apart, it was a great experience to be in Bhagat Singh. It has a mix reputation. The Commerce department is quite good, but the college also has some students who are involved in notorious activities. 
  
  
 
 
 
 Fashionista. Being a girls’ college, JMC had a fashionista crowd.
 
  (Interrupting Rakul) Very elite. JMC was always very elite...
 
  Sir, aap ko bada pata hai JMC ke baare mein!
 
  Ramjas boys used to be outside JMC!
 
  We used to do plays in JMC. So yes, I have my experience of your (Rakul’s) campus.
 Ramjas was noisy. But I liked that. If you’ll ask me to choose between the St Stephen’s crowd and the Ramjas crowd, I will always go for Ramjas. They have so much character. They are so expressive. There is no fun performing in front of a crowd which just goes (claps sophisticatedly). They are so burdened by their own reputation.
 
  Sri Aurobindo was civilised.
  
  
 
 
  That’s upto you.
 
  Bhagat Singh is a mix of all these colleges – JMC, Ramjas, Sri Aurobindo
 
  It’s not at all elite!
 
  Yeah, so I would say ‘Desi’. Yes, it’s very desi.
 
 
 
 I actually look for excuses to shoot in Delhi. 'A Wednesday' was the only film that I shot entirely in Mumbai. Apart from that, each and every film of mine has been shot in Delhi, at least some parts. 'Aiyaary' was no exception either. I don’t have to struggle with the locations here, because most places have been a part of my life when I was in college. The city has also changed a lot from the time I was studying here. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  It is always lovely shooting in Delhi, it is my hometown. My family stays here, and it is very comfortable to shoot here. I remember, we were here at the time when it was raining. But we came back to finish our scenes because Delhi had so much love for us. 
 
  When we were shooting in Cyber Hub I got very nostalgic. It used to be our hangout place during college. It had just opened then. And while shooting I was thinking, ‘Hum toh yahan ghoomte rehte thay, and now, I am shooting here. It is always great to shoot in your hometown. 
 
 Whenever I shoot in Delhi, I get to meet my parents. I meet my brothers and sisters over lunch and dinner. It is amazing to be working and spending time with family at the same time. I think each and every lane in Delhi has a memory attached to it, so shooting in those lanes is quite fantastic and nostalgic. 
 
 
 
  
 
