NEW DELHI: While the   on Monday started the hearing on sharing of water between Delhi and Haryana, the city continued to wait for additional supply by the neighouring state.

 DJB vice-chairman and   from   said it will take another couple of days to get back to normalcy and restore the levels at the Wazirabad reservoir. DJB will continue with water rationing in the meantime. “Haryana has started releasing water through the Munak canal but we are woried that this step by Haryana may be because of the court hearing...a permanent solution should be found by the court,” Mohania said.
 
  
  
 
 
 A DJB official said the city is facing a shortage of around 120 cusecs or 65 MGD at present. “Most of the water that Haryana is releasing is coming thorough Munak... and not through the Yamuna course, which would have been an ideal situation,” the official added. In order to provide some relief to the catchment areas of these plants, water is being diverted from other plants.
 
 Delhiites may have to brace for an acute water supply crisis in the upcoming summer. After filing cases before   and the Delhi high court, the Board finally approached the Supreme Court on Saturday for relief.
 
 Delhi has 11 water treatment plants. Though Chandrawal and Wazirabad water treatment plants are still severely affected, areas falling under the other plants are also witnessing water woes. “For example, the water from Sonia Vihar plant is being diverted to the Okhla one. So, impact is not specifically in one particular region,” Mohania said.
 
 The main areas that are bearing the brunt are in the north, south and central parts of the city. SK Mittal, the president of a South Extension RWA, said that residents are facing extreme   for the last couple of months and there has been no water supply in the colony for four days now. “Senior citizens are suffering the most. An 87-year-old man approached the RWA. His wife has come back from hospital after 7 days and needs to use the washroom frequently but there is not a single drop of water,” he said.
 
