HYDERABAD: A notorious gang involved in a series of   in various parts of the city since September 2017 finally landed in the police dragnet. Among the offenders was a lab worker of Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University. 

 The Cyberabad police on Monday arrested two snatchers along with three of their associates and recovered 80 tolas of gold. Cyberabad commissioner VC Sajjanar said SK Saleem (28) of Malakpet and Syed Nazim Afroz (27) of Mallapur committed 32 offences in Balapur, Vanasthalipuram, Narsingi, Rajendranagar, Meerpet, Chaitanyapuri, Shamshabad, Meerpet, Kushaiguda, Malakpet, Miyapur, Kukatpally, LB Nagar, Adibatla, Medipally and four burglaries in Balapur between September 2017 and April this year. "The duo came out of prison in September 2017 and began resorting to chain snatchings with the help of their associates," a police official said.
 
 Police said Saleem's friends had no clue that he owned a Yamaha FZ bike. Saleem used to hand over the bike (without a number plate) to his associates on the day of the offence and collect it from them so that cops will have no item linked to the crime in possession of the offenders in case of an arrest.
 
 Saleem has 60 non-bailable warrants against him in various police stations. 
 
 While he is involved in 180 snatching offences in three police commissionerates, Afroz has committed 15 snatchings. Saleem was booked by Chikkadpally police under the Preventive Detention (PD) Act and Afroz was detained by Santoshnagar police in 2015. 
 
 The duo came out of prison in October 2017 and started committing a series of offences from September 2017 with the help from the other accused. Apart from these two, Md Salahuddin Khaleel (52) of Falaknuma, Syed Jahangir (24), lab worker in the agricultural varsity, and Amol Kolekar (27), a goldsmith from Shalibanda, were also arrested. Salahuddin used to provide two-wheelers for Saleem and Afroz to commit offences, while Jahangir used to provide them clothes and other items. Amol was busy helping the duo dispose of the stolen property.
 
 
