INDORE: In one of the  ' videos which is making rounds on social media,   explains what focus is. "It depends on what ball I am bowling," he says. "If it's a yorker, I would concentrate on hitting the line. If it's a slower ball, I will try to get it full."

 
 The off-field talks and the on-field execution of Rajasthan bowlers, including Stokes, have been like oil and water. They have been generous in giving too many runs. As a result, the Royals have endured five defeats in eight matches and are languishing at the bottom of the points table.
 
 Stokes, the costliest player of the season, has been the center of discussion in the Rajasthan Royals' campaign which has been disastrous so far. He seems to be not finding the focus that the team think-tank would have hoped for when they shelled out Rs 12.5 crores for him.
 
 After two losses on the trot, skipper   would want his bowlers, especially Stokes, to walk the talk and ensure   batting line-up face an uphill task at Holkar Stadium on Sunday.
 
 The Royals are gasping for survival in the tournament. A loss here would make their journey more arduous. On the other hand, Kings XI Punjab, season's batting powerhouse, would be licking their lips in anticipation of facing such a rickety attack.
 
 Going by the record books, on a wicket which Indore has, no total is safe. In fact, the team that chased the target in all the T20 matches played on this ground has won.   skipper R Ashwin, who faced a defeat against   while defending on Friday, knows it well.
 
 "It's a very difficult to defend on this ground. Any team which keeps wickets in hand can stage a comeback at any time (like Mumbai did)," he said after Friday's match.
 
 The middle-order holds the key at such a small ground. In the Royals' loss to Delhi at Feroz Shah Kotla on last Wednesday, the trio of Sanju Samson, Stokes and   managed just 13 off 15 balls in the middle overs. That proved costly as they fell short of the revised target by 4 runs in the rain-truncated match.
 
 Stokes is yet to complete his 4-over quota in a match this  . In Sunday's crucial match he will be under pressure to perform with both bat and ball. If the southpaw Englishman finds his groove and complements Samson, Jos Butler and D'Arcy Short, Royals can look forward to a turnaround in this do-or-die game.
 
 Similar concerns hover over the KXIP camp. Apart from   and  , others in the KXIP line-up haven't been up to the mark. The script followed against Mumbai and cost them dear. The rest of the batting line-up needs to build on the platform provided by the opening duo.
 
 
  
 
