VADODARA: A 13-year-old boy studying in class VI died on Sunday morning after a state transport (ST) bus ran over him near Jai Ambe School on  . The incident took place when students were on their way to participate in a cycle marathon from the school premises to Navlakhi Ground.

 Upset over the boy’s death, agitated parents and angry morning walkers vandalized the school and allegedly assaulted the school staff despite police presence. The incident has once again raised questions about traffic regulations in the city.
 
 The school had organized cycle marathon on Sunday and asked all students to remain present with their bicycles. According to the police, Chauhan was on his way to participate in the marathon from his house at Khadiya Pol on Rajmahal Road. But just a few metres away from his school, a ST bus going to Patan from the city ran over him.
 
 Bus driver   was nabbed by morning walkers and some parents and roughed up before handing him over to the police. Chauhan’s father Himesh, who works as a manager in a super store, was informed about the incident following which he rushed to the spot. The police took the custody of Chauhan’s body and sent it to   for post-mortem. An FIR was registered against Rajpura.
 
 Though eyewitnesses said Chauhan died after the bus ran over him, social media was abuzz with claims of a CCTV camera footage that allegedly showed a red swift car that came from wrong side near Jai Ambe School. Chauhan and one more boy who was riding beside him fell down as the car allegedly knocked them down. The unidentified boy fell on the footpath while Chauhan got run over by the bus as he fell on the road. His body crushed under the left rear wheel of the bus.
 
 “We have asked for the footage of the CCTV cameras nearby and once we get it, we will be able to know what exactly happened,” said R R Amaliyara, police sub-inspector, Harni police station. The police said they had given permission to the school to organize cycle marathon in Navlakhi grounds.
 
 Chauhan was the only son of his parents, who used to send him to school daily in a school van.
 
 DEO to conduct inquiry today
 
 The office of Vadodara district education officer (DEO) will begin its inquiry into the death of the 13-year-old kid who died in a road accident on Sunday morning while going to his school to attend a cycle marathon. “We will check whether there was any negligence on the part of the school which had organized the programme,” said Vadodara’s in-charge DEO M N Patel, adding that the office will take into consideration both the information that it receives from the school and the FIR registered by the police. “If there was any negligence on the part of the school in arranging the programme, it will face action as per the provisions,” he said. Suryakant Shah, chairman of Ambe group of schools, said, “It was unfortunate that the boy died, but the accident took place outside the school premises. Also, he could have directly reached Navlakhi ground instead of coming to school.”
 
 
