BHOPAL: In a chilling example of the dangers of social media, the 17-yearold daughter of an NRI was allegedly blackmailed by two youths, who trapped her with pictures she had sent while sexting with one of them.

 The teenager, who is in Class XI, had come in contact with them through Instagram a year ago. Both her tormenters are now behind bars.
 
 
  
 
 Police said the main accused, 26-year-old  , got her cell number after they connected on Instagram and they started chatting on WhatsApp. He lured the minor into his trap and forced her into sexting, police said. Once he got some of her intimate photographs, he began threatening to share them with her father and on social media unless she paid up.
 
 Giving in to blackmail, the victim paid him around Rs 90,000 and a pair of gold earrings.
 
 SP (cyber cell)   said the victim’s father works abroad. His wife and two children lived in Bhopal for some time and later moved in with him. Her father recently came to Bhopal to visit his ailing mother, who lives in a posh locality. The teenager also came along.
 
 On January 29, her grandmother died and her father withdrew money from the bank to make arrangements for her last rites. The girl stole Rs 50,000 from this to give it to the accused, say police. The family got alarmed when they realised Rs 50,000 was missing. Wracked by guilt, she admitted to taking the money and told her father how she was being blackmailed. Her father filed a complaint with cyber cell a week ago, saying his daughter was getting obscene messages and threats through WhatsApp from unknown persons, who also extorted money from her.
 
 During investigation, police zeroed in on Ejaz Ahmed, a resident of Kamla Park. Police said Ejaz confessed to his crime and told them that his friend Fazil Hasan (19), a resident of Jogipura, gave him information about the victim’s Instagram account in November-December 2016.
 
 Ejaz created a fake profile on Instagram and sent a friend request. The victim accepted it and started chatting with him, police said, adding, the victim gave her mobile number to him and then they started chatting/talking over WhatsApp.
 
 Police said Ejaz asked her to send her nude photographs. When she sent him the pictures, he started blackmailing her. He threatened that he would share the photos with her father and on social media, police said. The accused duo spent all the money on partying and lost the earrings, police said, Meanwhile, he continued to chat with the victim.
 
 In August 2017, he discussed the matter with Fazil, who demanded his share as it was him who had given the information about the girl, police said, adding, Ejaz again threatened the victim on WhatsApp and demanded more money. The accused have been arrested on charges of extortion and molestation under relevant sections of IPC and POCSO. Police also recovered an iPhone and Rs 15,000 from Fazil.
 
