Tattooing though is an ancient art, it is majorly associated with the youth. However, of late, there has been a considerable rise in the number of seniors making a beeline for getting inked at various   parlours in the city. Call it a medium to express their love or a way to embrace latest trends, these young at hearts have motivations galore to get inked later in life. We trace this emerging trend by talking to some of the ‘senior citizens’ who got themselves tattooed…

 Elaborating on the kind of tattoos that are trending among the seniors, Dr Jitendra Bharadwaj, a noted tattoo artist, says, “Spiritual tattoos are the most preferred ones. But our elderly patrons also want their tattoos to look cool and funky at the same time. So, through customised fonts and styles we make it possible for them. Also, what I have noticed is that getting a tattoo is their way of bridging the gap between the millennials and them.” 
 
 “You are never too old to try something new,” believes 69-year-old hotelier Murlidhar Saraf, who sports two tattoos reading Om Namah Shivaay. He goes on to add, “A tattoo remains with you forever; it’s a permanent mark on your body, so it has to be beautiful. Even though my tattoos are spiritual in nature, they look quite trendy. All my children and grandchildren were very happy when I got my first tattoo. In fact, a few in my peer group even followed suit.” 
 
 Not just for youngsters tattoos serve as a great medium even for seniors to express their emotions. Businessman   Ahirkar at 61, dedicated his first tattoo to his wife Surekha. “I got a tattoo while I was holidaying in Goa recently with my family. I thought if I wish to go through this painful process, then it should be for somebody I love. So, I got the letter ‘S’ with a crown inked on my forearm,” says he.
 
 Besides getting   that have spiritual significance or sentimental value, there are some senior citizens who are opting for designs that are aesthetically pleasing. One such newbie tattoo lover, Vinita Isaacs (60), who sports an African peace symbol on her back shares, “I did a bit of a research online for the designs before getting inked. After all, it was my first tattoo and I wanted it to be extremely elegant.”
 
 “As artists, we have to keep in mind the kind of ink we use especially for the elderly person,” explains another tattoo artist   Mulge adding, “For those, who are diabetic or above 50, we use the ink which has less alcohol content. It helps the skin heal fast, post the process.” 
 
 
