CHENNAI: After a five-year lull,   are redrawing the healthcare map of the city. Over the next one year, the city will get around 1,000 new beds for   care as well as to treat patients with diseases such as  , which are on the rise.

 Given the increasing incidence of non-communicable diseases, hospitals are opening up large super-speciality centres. The state government, for instance, will open a 200-bed facility focusing on care for elderly people. In the private sector, Apollo Hospitals has planned a 150-bed cancer hospital, while Fortis will open an exclusive transplant centre. 
  
  
 Independent surveys show the city has 2.4 beds per 1,000 people, which is far less than WHO standards that specify three beds per 1,000. 
 
 The age pyramid for Tamil Nadu shows that those in the elderly age group (60-69 years) account for 14.3% of its population against 10.1% all-India. "That is why we need to offer facilities and care focusing exclusively on the elderly," said health minister C Vijaya Baskar. 
 
 Hospital consultant N J Gowri Shankar, head of HSB Consultancy Service, says the city has good doctors and infrastructure. "The technological advancement in every speciality and health insurance are main reasons for hospitals to expand into super-speciality centres," he said. "Cost though will be high initially because hospitals will bring in new technology," he added.
 
 Fortis Hospital, which had initially planned a multi-specialty hospital on Arcot Road, later revised it to a 250-bed transplant unit, said facility director Dr Sanjay Pandey. "We do more than half of the heart-and-lung transplants in the country. But our Adyar facility has only nine beds in the ICU for transplant patients and 15 beds in the general ward," he said. The new facility, for which the group will invest `265 crore, will cater to liver, pancreas, kidney, heart and lung transplants. "We need to bridge the demand-supply gap," said Dr Pandey.
 
 Like in the case of transplants, there is an acute shortage of beds for treatment of cancer. "Less than 40% of cancer patients visit hospitals for treatment, including palliative care," said oncologist Dr V Shantha, Adyar Cancer Institute.
 
 Apollo Hospitals will open another 150-bed hospital that specialises in proton therapy for cancer, which will be used to treat leukaemia and brain cancer, particularly in children. "There are less than 40 such centres in the world," said chairman Prathap C Reddy.
 
 Expansion is a good sign, says Dr Giridhar Gynai, director general of Association of Healthcare Providers of India. "But we should be careful not to go the Telangana way, where of the 167 hospitals 150 are in and around Hyderabad," he said. 
 
 To cut costs, the 700-bed Madurai-based Aravind Eye Hospital will reserve 500 beds for the poor, where treatment will be either free or at a subsidised rate, said hospital chief medical officer Dr Aravind, adding the number of speciality eye surgeries has gone up.
 
