GURUGRAM: The number of road   in Gurugram has increased by 10%, and casualties by 38% in 2017, compared to 2016, according to a   by Central Road Research Institute ( ) on behalf of the Safer Roads for Gurugram (SRG) initiative, launched last December by a group of companies and NGOs in collaboration with the transport department. 

 
  
 The study has also found that number of injuries had fallen by 10% over the same period, and that two-wheeler riders and pedestrians are the most vulnerable on Gurugram roads, with 42% and 25% of casualties respectively. It also identified five locations that have reported higher number of causalities — Bilaspur, Manesar, Pataudi, Sector 10A and Farrukhnagar — but said over the past year, the number of accidents on the Gurugram stretch of Delhi-Jaipur expressway rose by 158% (most of them non-fatal).
 
 A spokesperson for AB InBev, one of the partner companies, said the SRG working group — which includes representatives from partner organisations, including United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR), Safe Roads Foundation, Ola, DLF, AIIMS among others, along with global consultants and government authorities — are working together to create a technical intervention after sourcing data from FIRs, field analysis and observation. While some proposed solutions — on the accident-prone zones in the city — have been shared with the Haryana government, a lot more will be done in the coming days, he said.
 
 Last week — celebrated as Road Safety Week worldwide — saw a number of activities organised both by Gurugram transport department and private players in collaboration with the government, to promote road safety initiatives. Road Safety Week, which concludes today, started with a rally last Monday and moved to activities to prevent under-age and drunk driving, with Sunday marked as ‘no overloading day’.
 
 Activities included basic training for emergencies, which was conducted by trauma doctors from AIIMS in campuses of various universities in Gurugram, including KIIT, Manav Rachna, Ansal Nothcap. Two eye check-up camps were held, one for truckers in Transport Nagar between April 24 and 27, another for app-based cab drivers in their respective offices.
 
 “On one day, we distributed flowers to people who were caught for not observing traffic rules. Among them was a woman who was driving a scooter without wearing a helmet, though she had one in the carrier,” said a transport official, who was part of the drive. “The idea was not to issue challans but make people conscious about their mistakes, which could cost them their lives,” he said.
 
 Traffic police observed a zero tolerance day on Saturday. The drive, which lasted till midnight, saw 12,240 challans issued, with over Rs 13.5 lakh collected, and included challans for around 130 school buses. Professor Ravinder, the director of CRRI, said, “Road accidents accounted for 481 deaths in Gurugram last year. Under the SRG initiative, we’re working on a road safety audit at pre-identified black spots and accident-prone zones in the city. The audit will also help us identify and recommend technical interventions to enhance safety for commuters and pedestrians, by reducing number of road accidents.”
 
