NEW DELHI:   the   against   in  , the   has widened the ambit of the process by ordering a   on   of sanctioned   apart from   of   as well as misuse of property. 

 A letter written by a committee member to the three civic bodies and NDMC stated that the committee had decided that shop-cum-residence complexes “in violation of standard/sanctioned building plan be sealed immediately and a compliance report sent on daily basis”. The directions were issued on Friday and the corporations are expected to start acting on them from this week.
 
 Market associations and trader bodies argued that the move would “wreak havoc” in the capital. “These LSCs were set up decades ago and hardly any shops would be spared if the new criterion is actually applied. Are they planning to destroy the markets of the city? We demand status quo till SC delivers its final ruling,” Praveen Khandelwal, general secretary of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), said.
 
 The sealing action has slowed over the last one month, with the corporations repeatedly citing “lack of police force” to execute the panel’s orders. To tackle this problem, the committee has directed local bodies “to coordinate with DCPs of the areas to arrange the police force, in addition to the normal requisition being forwarded to the SHO/police station concerned”.
 
 CAIT, in a communication to urban development minister Hardeep Puri, sought action against an “unjustified and blanket order”. Khandelwal said: “There are about 140 LSCs in Delhi where thousands of business establishments are conducting their commercial activities. Most of these have paid parking and conversion charges and, even then, orders have been issued for action against them. The matter is sub-judice.” Traders have argued that DDA had effected various amendments in the master plan, which also covered LSCs, and these were pending before the SC. 
 
 The committee has, meanwhile, asked “field staff of departments to ensure all documents are checked before sealing to avoid unnecessary harassment of public”.
 
 
