NAGPUR: Ahead of tendu patta season beginning next month, over 1,000 hectares of forest was gutted in ground fires in the last two days in   district.

 According to sources, the forest fires have been ignited for better yield at the behest of tendu traders from Gondia. “Two days ago we saw a prominent tendu trader from Gondia moving in the forest areas obtained by him in auction. A day later the fires started,” said forest sources.
 
 “Fire was seen in at least 8-9 compartments of territorial forest and also   ( ) areas. At least 1,000 hectares of forest must have been destroyed in ground fires,” they said.
 
 Lack of coordination between territorial forest and FDCM officials further aggravated the situation causing more damage. Talking to TOI, Gondia deputy conservator S Yuvraj said, “The exact area damaged in fires would be ascertained on Wednesday. Yes, there was some coordination missing owing to lack of manpower and firefighting equipment with FDCM.”
 
 “Now the situation has been brought under control. As per the GR, we will see that areas where MoU was signed with the bidders, tendu collection will be stopped. In many areas where fires were reported, MoU has not been signed,” he said.
 
 FDCM’s Gondia divisional manager PG Nawkharkar did not respond to TOI calls.
 
 “The fire spread in corridor areas of   (NNTR) where there is presence of tigers and other wildlife species,” said sources.
 
 They said huge flames were seen in North Deori range and timber deport near Dongargaon. Fire was also seen in corridor and buffer area along Koylari, Shenda and FDCM compartments in 512, 513, 532, 533 and 535.
 
 Former district warden of Gondia Sawan Bahekar demanded action against culprits involved in forest fires. “No lessons have been learnt despite forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar announcing a Rs30 crore plan to tackle fires,” Bahekar said.
 
 The Rs30 crore plan included funds for awareness and publicity, labourers at watch towers, hotshot crew, equipment, strengthening control rooms, equipment for control rooms, and training.
 
 “Forest fires damage ecology badly due to which regeneration of forests is the biggest issue staring at country’s forest departments,” said Mukund Dhurve, honorary wildlife warden of Gondia.
 
 
