BENGALURU: Though no student from   made it to the top 25 ranks, several schools in Bengaluru logged 100% pass as the CBSE Class 10 results were announced on Tuesday. Despite a change in the evaluation pattern this year, several students bagged the coveted centums.

 Two students from Bengaluru — Jyothirmayee Swaminathan of PSBB Learning Leadership Academy in Bannerghatta and G Chaitra of Kendriya Vidyalaya, DRDO campus — scored 99%.
 
 The Chennai region, which includes Karnataka schools, retained second spot among the 10 regions across India. The region recorded a pass percentage of 97.37%.
 
 The region boasts of the highest number of students who scored more than 95% (5,737) and 90% and above (26,670). Of the 1,93,833 students who appeared for the exams across 2,662 schools from the region, 1,88,729 passed — 1,06,504 boys and 82,225 girls.
 
 Pass % falls as high-scorers rise
 Pass percentages for the Class X exams have been falling since 2015. From 90.95% last year for the combined board and school-based exams, it has slipped to 86.7% this year. The good news, however, is the spike in the number of high scorers and toppers this year. The top rank was shared by four students, all scoring 499 out of 500 — missing the perfect score by a single mark, just as in the CBSE Class XII boards. P12
 
 Many score centums despite new system
 
 At NPS Indiranagar, five students scored centums in social science, two each in Sanskrit and mathematics. Students of PSBB Learning Leadership Academy in Bannerghatta bagged 14 centums.
 
 At Alpine Public School, eleven students scored centums. “Girls have performed better than boys in terms of overall percentage, but boys have got more centums. We helped students prepare through mock exams and familiarised them with the new evaluation system,” said the school’s principal Jayalakshmi Shastri.
 
 Shanthi Menon, principal of Deens Academy, said the school held internal exams based on the same pattern as boards and advised students to focus more on daily study. “Every week, we conducted subject-wise coaching,” she added.
 
 Vasugi Gopal, principal of Air Force School, Jalahalli, said, “We counselled parents and made students aware of the evaluation pattern right from the beginning of the academic year. We also conducted remedial classes for many children, which ensured 100% results.”
 
 ‘Marking is liberal across curricula; dilutes standards’
 
 “NPS schools have consistently done well in board exams... Although the evaluation pattern has changed, I feel, there is liberal marking in board exams across curricula. We don’t appreciate that because it does not reflect the real efficiency of a student and dilutes standards. However,KendriyaVidyalayas and Navodaya schools have performed well because teachers are strict with students from an early age and warn poor performers of being transferred to other states. State schools can emulate this,” said KP Gopalkrishna, chairman, NPS group of schools.
 
 
