GHAZIABAD: The Federation of Apartment Owners’ Association urged the district administration on Monday to take action against largescale illegal encroachments on the floodplains of   river alongside the   Road in Indirapuram area. In the past five years, several illegal structures including houses, banquet halls, schools, shops, liquor vends and even religious structures have mushroomed on the floodplains, right up to the edge of the river.

 In a letter to   Development Authority (GDA), the federation alleged that unplanned development on the floodplains has resulted in air and water pollution through improper disposal of solid waste and effluents into the river. It has also alleged that construction is being carried out in connivance with various government agencies that have also allowed registration of plots illegally carved out on the floodplains.
 
 “The governments are running several schemes to ensure that rivers are free from pollution. However, those settled illegally on floodplains pollute the river through municipal solid waste and untreated sewage. Plots are being sold by land sharks in the area between Pushta Road and Hindon river to gullible people who mostly cannot afford flats or shops in other areas. These people do not realize that their hard-earned money will be wasted the moment the district administration decides to raze the illegal structures. The administration has formed an anti-land mafia task force to free encroachments in Ghaziabad. However, the   are being steadily encroached. The least the administration could do is to spread awareness through signboards, etc that possessing land in this area is illegal,” federation president   told TOI.
 
 TOI conducted a recce of the floodplains on Sunday. “We cannot afford properties in Khoda because prices have skyrocketed in the colony. A viable alternative is the Pushta area which is developing and offers affordable prices for the lower working class,” said  , a cab driver.
 
 The federation has cited an Allahabad high court order, delivered on a PIL filed in April 2006, barring construction within 500 metres of the highest flood point of the confluence of rivers Ganga and Yamuna in Sangam. The letter also cites an order of the   in May 2013, wherein the governments of UP, Haryana and Delhi had been directed to prohibit all illegal constructions on the floodplains of Yamuna river. Further, a UP government order dated March 16, 2010 has also been cited wherein development authorities in the state had been directed to demarcate floodplains clearly in their master plans.
 
 “In the recent past, we had received complaints about encroachments on land belonging to the irrigation department in the area. The concerned department was asked to conduct an inquiry and file a police complaint. We will have to inspect whether the land belonging to the Ghaziabad Development Authority in the area has also been encroached upon. Necessary action will be taken thereafter,” district magistrate Ritu Maheshwari told TOI.
 
 
