Visakhapatnam: The more things change, the more they remain the same, and one of the best examples of this adage is the situation at the Visakhapatnam international airport. Its passenger traffic has increased manifold in the last few years thanks to the increase in number of domestic and international flights, making it the busiest airport in state today. 

 Managed by the Airport Authority of India (AAI) and Indian Navy, the airport now boasts of a new terminal building and extended runway. The launch of e-tourist visa on arrival (e-TVOA) facility and international cargo operations have added more feathers to its cap. Yet, its basic facilities remain the same.
 
 Frequent travellers and airport association members say to boost the airport’s image, the authorities need to start at the basis level which need a major revamp. Although efforts are being taken to develop the airport to be on par with its international compatriots, much still needs to be done at the ground level to make the   feel at ease. A recurring problem being faced by a majority of travellers is lack of sufficient number of luggage trolleys.
 
 “The trolleys at the airport are in a pathetic condition. Every time I travel I find it difficult to carry my luggage from the entrance to the check-in counters. In some trolleys the wheels are either missing or do not move. The authorities need to be replace them immediately,” says B K Rai, a frequent flyer from the city.
 
 P Vinod, another regular flyer, added: “I had to wait for more than 30 minutes after arriving from Bangalore to get a trolley. I had to walk around the entire airport to find one,” said the city businessman, and added that due to lack of maintenance many trolleys do not move.
 
 Sivasagar Rao, president of Andhra Pradesh Air Travellers Association (APATA), said they have been giving representations to the   Authority from the past one year to provide better facilities to passengers and had also requested the airport authorities to ensure that more trolleys are added and properly maintained.
 
 Airport director G Prakash Reddy said 500 luggage trolleys are available at the airport as of now. “We have ordered for more trolleys — 250 new trolleys have already arrived at the airport and an additional 750 trolleys are expected to arrive by next month. A request was made to the Airport Authority of India (AAI) a few months ago on the requirement of trolleys because of the difficulties being faced by passengers. Hence, an order was placed and we are in the process to procure more trolleys from New Delhi,” he said.
 
 
