The students of Sacred Heart College had hosted an art event named Parva two years ago deriving inspiration from the very popular   (KMB). This year, they conducted a sequel to it, Parva 2, which will be on till April. The Maharaja’s College has followed suit, albeit with one of shorter duration. Titled  , the multi-layered programmes brought forth a splurge of artistic imagination. We talk to a few students to get a taste of their stream of thoughts and the motifs that turn muse for them.

 Mohammed Hisham, one of the coordinators of Parva 2, says that there are four stages to the art event. “The first stage was inspired by the protest of Puthuvype residents against the construction of an LPG terminal. We felt we could express our solidarity through art. We created a 50-metre-long fabric painting, focusing on the issue.”
 
 The second stage saw the walls of the college turning canvas for the students, wherein they were allowed to paint whatever evoked their curiosity, he says. The third stage included installations, photography exhibition and awareness programmes, and the next, which is yet to be initiated, is expected to have a two-week-long artists’ workshop, in addition to motivational classes by experts. By the end of April, the artworks will be open to the public. 
 Harikrishnan KS, curator of Parva 2 and student of  , says that while the earlier version was more of an art event, issues of social relevance have gained prominence over the former this time. “This year, our aim is to interact with each student on an intellectual level so as to make everyone socially responsible. There are multiple issues such as the lynching issue of Madhu and the civil war in Syria. I am sure this would help put things in perspective for youngsters like us.”
 
 Meanwhile at the Maharaja’s College, Deepthy EK, a postgraduate student from the Department of Islamic History, says that as part of the Campus Biennale, they had conducted cultural events for three days during the first week of March. “Artist Bose Krishnamachari inaugurated the event, and a differently abled young girl named Ummu Khulsu showcased her artistic skills. Then followed a contemporary collaboration of three Malayali artistes and two foreign performers. A performance by Mohammed Fawas Ameer was staged, and a live painting was also made on the same theme. The second day saw another gripping performance from him, coupled with a naadan paatu recital and Holi celebrations.” Teachers and alumni participated in it, making it all the more exciting, according to her.
 
 She adds, “I was inspired by the KMB, and thought why not start one in the college itself? Our teachers and friends gave their support and encouragement. The highlight of the literary event was that a transgender student and alumnus presented a memoir based on personal experience.”
 Gender sensitisation was their focal point throughout the event, she says. Arshan Muhammed, another student from Maharaja’s College, adds, “The intention behind conducting the programme was to bring out the hidden talents of students and nurture their skills to perfection. The event has instilled in us a lot of confidence, and we aspire to bring more such art programmes on a regular basis.” Deepthy concludes that going by Bose Krishnamachari’s advice, they are determined to not restrict their ideas to a Campus Biennale, and will continue to keep alive the spirit of art throughout the year.
 
 
 
