NAGPUR: Even though the   irrigation project is being monitored by war room set up by chief minister  , very little work has been done and its condition is pitiable. While the dam is complete, its distribution network is not. As a result, farmers of Yavatmal district are not getting any water.

 Jan Manch and other social organizations had visited the   under Sinchan Shodh Yatra on Sunday. The visit unearthed shocking facts. The main and sub-main canals did not have concrete lining and in many place distributaries existed only on paper.
 
 The Ralegaon main canal of Bembla dam is in existence since last many years. No lining has been done during this period as a result of which lot of water is lost in seepage whenever water is released in it. Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) has no immediate plans to do the lining and so water wastage is going to continue.
 
 The condition of Ralegaon sub-main canal is similar. No lining has been done and water is lost due to seepage. Villagers told the Jan Manch team and the media persons accompanying them that the VIDC officials had told them that they did not have money for completing the lining.
 
 The minor canal from Mengapur to Waldur has ceased to exist. The 5km long canal is now filled up with earth. In ten years of its existence, VIDC has never released water in it. Sudhakar Yerkade, former sarpanch of Waldur, said that the major canal to which this one was connected never had water.
 
 There are more examples of VIDC apathy in this area. The Waldur minor canal empties into Ramganga river. VIDC had dug 5km from the major canal up to an orange orchard. There is no canal in the orchard but after a distance of 2km another canal exists which connects the river. If water is released in this canal someday it will not reach its destination.
 
 Dr  , head of Jan Manch’s Yavatmal unit, said not a single canal near Ramtirth village had been completed in these years. “They have dug up canals in areas where farmers get round the year water from wells,” he said.
 
 Jan Manch president Sharad Patil and vice-president   said that a committee of 29 MLAs had visited the Bembla project in 2015. “At that time VIDC had promised to complete the project in 2017. It is nowhere near completion,” they said.Patil further said that the government had not given revised administrative approval to the project. “The approval committee had last met in June 2017. How will projects be completed if government is so apathetic,” he said.
 
 
