Chandigarh: For 12 years, the residents of   50 and 51 have been demanding a   and pleading with one authority or the other for this basic facility.

 From the area councillor to the UT administrator, they have tried knocking at every door, but there is no sign of any market on the ground. Residents shared their grievances with a TOI team that visited to the two sectors recently. They talked about the day-to-day difficulties in searching for utility items in part of Chandigarh where they have spent 15 years. In 2007, the administration assured the residents of Sector 51 that it will construct a market in the area by March 31, 2008, but nothing became of that project.
 
 Out of 30 service booths in the area, only four are operational, and those are the only shops that supply a few basic items to the residents. In Sector 50 also, the civic authorities earmarked a marketplace and then forgot about it. Whenever the residents raise the issue, the authorities assure them that the market is on its way. Girish Kapoor of the Sector-50 resident welfare association (RWA) said: “In 2011, the residents started a struggle to get a market developed in the area. We gave many memoranda to the authorities concerned but all in vain, since no action was ever taken on those requests. The residents of this sector are dependent on the markets of Burail village and Mohali for buying daily grocery and other small items.”
 
 Sector-50 resident welfare association secretary Surinder Singh Rana, who is a lawyer, said: “When the area was developed, the residents were assured that the administration will provide them with every basic facility. It seems that this area doesn’t belong to Chandigarh, where the plan includes a market in each sector otherwise.” 
 
 Sangeeta Lekhi, member of the Sector-51 citizen welfare society (CWS) said: “For routine grocery shopping, housewives have to travel to the Phase-VII market in Mohali or Sector 44 in Chandigarh, since there has been no proper market in their own area for a long time. The four service booths that are operational do not have sufficient supplies required to run a household.” Citizen welfare society vice-president Balvinder Singh said: “The residents of these sectors pay their taxes to Chandigarh but give business to Mohali for want of a market in their area.”
 
 
