BHOPAL: Candidates taking the   (SSC)   created a ruckus at an exam centre at Hoshangabad road in the state capital alleging that the paper was leaked and later staged a protest when the exam was cancelled.

 Controversy began soon after the candidates found out that several questions were already marked with answers. Candidates protested saying it is an irregularity.
 
 Meanwhile, the issue took an ugly turn when the centre informed that the SSC has cancelled the exam after the candidates refused to appear. The examinees however claimed that centre gave a wrong information to SSC and they wanted to appear in the paper.
 
 Candidates called off their protest at the centre late night. The problem was occurred with the first paper which was of mathematics. Apprehending that the situation could go out of control, the college officials called the police.
 
 Around 500 students reached   around 8.30 am. The two-hour exam started at 10.30 am as per schedule. Around 12.20 pm, students were told that the exam has been stopped due to a technical glitch and it will start again after few minutes. After 10 minutes the exam started again. But, problem began from here. 
 
 “When exam started again, we found that in several questions the answers were also marked. We informed the invigilators suspecting paper leak and stopped answering further,” said a candidate. He added, “After sometime, we were informed that there was a technical glitch which has happened across the country and the exam has been cancelled.” 
 
 Students were shocked when centre invigilators told them that their exam has been cancelled as they had boycotted the exam. “We had only informed the authorities and pointed out the anomalies to the invigilators,” said a candidate. 
 
 “While checking the SSC notice it was written that exam was cancelled after students refused to appear. It was completely wrong. It was college who had misinformed the SSC resulting in the goof up and cancellation of exam. We just wanted an explanation on the questions that were already marked with answers,” said the candidates. They have demanded that their paper should be organised again.
 
 When contacted, centre official Lalit Chauhan admitted that few questions were marked with answer also. “The technical glitch was witnessed across India. However, the issue of questions with answers marked took place only at our centre,” said Chauhan. 
 
 He blamed that SSC committed a mistake by stating that students had boycotted the exam. “We had just informed the SSC authorities that students were creating trouble after they alleged that some questions were marked with answers. I have no idea as how they inferred that students had boycotted the exam,” said Chauhan. 
 
 About the status of the paper, he said, “Paper is on hold. SSC will take a final decision later.” He claimed that students appeared in their second paper and there was no issue in that. Second paper was of English subject,” said Chauhan. 
 
 
