KOCHI: In a week’s time, the state government will come out with the details of the project for introducing electric buses in the city.

 
 
  
 
 The project envisages operating these buses as feeder services to Kochi  .
 
 “The project for introducing electric buses along the   has already been prepared and is ready. We are in the process of ascertaining the rates per kilometre and the other costs involved in operation of electric buses. Many private operators have come forward expressing interest in the project,” transport secretary K R Jyothilal said.
 
 On whether the project would be implemented on a private -public partnership the transport secretary said, “The government should not incur loss. The details will be made available within a week.”
 
 The transport secretary along with other top officials representing the Centre headed for Frankfurt on Saturday to study on the various modes of public transport systems and feeder services, including   rapid transit systems and trams, which are operational in countries like Germany and Portugal.
 
 In November 2017, TOI had reported on the proposal, which is part of the faster adoption and manufacturing of hybrid & electric (FAME) vehicles in India scheme, which comes under the ministry of heavy industries and public enterprises.
 
 As per the proposal, the government considers introducing 16 electric buses in Kochi. These buses could be automatically charged at bus bays. The charging process is fast and does not require a change in schedule. As the Seaport-Airport Road has sufficient width, it is possible to develop the road infrastructure required to operate these buses.
 
 The government aims to reduce carbon footprint by introducing electric buses. These buses will link   and Karigachira near   through the Seaport –Airport Road.
 
 The transport secretary said the focus is on providing first mile and last mile connectivity and seamless integration of various modes of public transport.
 
 “Though a report is already prepared for introducing electric buses we should incorporate certain corrections and changes,” said Jyothilal adding that they have to look deeper into aspects like facilities for charging electric buses. “We have to provide quality feeder services” with the same level of comfort offered by the Metro and other private vehicles, and a revised report incorporating these aspects will be ready within a week.
 
 The Centre is emphasizing on providing affordable and environment-friendly public and private transportation to the public. to provide incentives for electric buses, electric passenger cars and even three wheelers for five cities, along with a requisite facility for charging such vehicles.
 
 
 
