SHAHKOT: The   and the   (SAD) took their Shahkot assembly bypoll campaigns to a crescendo on the last day of canvassing through roadshows. While the ruling party brought out CM Captain Amarinder Singh, Sukhbir Singh Badal led the Akalis’ campaign on Sunday.

 The CM climbed on top of a specially-designed bus for the rally. Sukhbir, on the other hand, campaigned with fellow party leaders in a cargo vehicle. As Shahkot is a rural constituency, SAD had several tractors in its roadshow. Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia even drove one.
 
 This was Amarinder’s second visit to the constituency for campaigning. On May 10, he addressed a rally and then accompanied party candidate  . 
 
 While hundreds of Congress supporters joined the party’s roadshow on cars, motorcycles and even pick-ups, a large crowd had gathered on either of the road to catch a glimpse of the CM, who waved back to the people. “We will win, and will win with a good lead,” said the CM. 
 
 The chief minister lashed out at the   for “total lack of development” in Shahkot during the 14 years in which they had represented the constituency. The CM said the Congress had in just 14 months brought development back on track across the state. He said he announced infrastructure development projects worth Rs 113 crore for Shahkot in March this year and promised to ensure his government continues to invest in the seat.
 
 In response to a question, the CM said his government, which inherited bankruptcy from Akali Dal, made a good start with farm-loan waiver and employment generation schemes. “We still have four years and will fulfill all prepoll promises,” he said. 
 
 Starting from Lohian, Amarinder’s roadshow covered a major part of the constituency.
 
 The SAD roadshow too got many participants. Badal appealed to votes “to take revenge from the Congress for reneging on all promises made to farmers, Dalits, youth, and trade and industry”. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had taken out a roadshow on Friday in which state convener Bhagwant Mann, leader of opposition Sukhpal Khaira and party MLAs participated.
 
 
