TRICHY: Sri Naachiyar Unavagam on the outskirts of the city at Kattur is slowly becoming a popular spot for authentic Chettinad food. Customers savour their   and Chettinad gravy.

 R  , 30, from   started this food joint after he felt that Trichy did not have many eateries that serve Chettinad cuisine. Although the eatery is only three months old, it has already begun garnering a name for itself.
 
 After completing Class X, Kumar was pursuing his education at Sri Adhisankarar ITI College when he realised that it was not his calling and discontinued his education. Soon, he started working on his dream of opening a Chettinad food joint.
 
 “All members of my family have a penchant towards food. Though my father was a school teacher, he started a tea stall after his retirement. My brother too owns a small food joint. I worked at my brother’s shop for a while before starting my own business,” he told TOI.
 
 Kumar also says that he was very particular about roping in the ‘master’ (chef) who was an expert in preparing Chettinad food. “As my roots are in Ramanathapuram, I know the exact taste of every Chettinad food variety. But the challenge was to find the right chef. After a lot of research and scouting around for parotta masters, we roped in Madhan Kumar from Karaikudi,” he said.
 
 Speaking about the food varieties available at Sri Naachiyar Unavagam, he said   parotta was by far the favourite among customers, followed by Chettinad gravy, veechu parotta and egg parotta. Our Ceylon parotta is made by stuffing finely chopped pieces of spicy chicken and vegetables in a thin parotta.
 
 “We serve our dishes with three varieties of kurumas — chicken kuruma, mutton kuruma and white (vegetable) kuruma. This is also one of the major highlights of our food joint,” Kumar said. Ceylon Parotta, which is served as four pieces, is priced at Rs75, while veechu parotta, egg parotta and Chettinad gravy are priced at Rs10, Rs50 and Rs65 respectively.
 
 The shop is open from 5.30 pm to 11.30 pm and sees an average of 100 customers every day. “Since our regular customers urged us to provide lunch, we are now open in the noon too and serve varieties of biriyanis.”
 
 Kumar said that his ultimate aim was to start a restaurant in the city in the future. “But first I need to earn enough to be able to realise my goal. Hopefully it will happen in a few years’ time,” he added.
 
 What: Ceylon Parotta (stuffed chicken parotta) and Chettinad gravy
 
 Where: Thanjavur Main Road, Kattur (street opposite to Urumu Dhanalakshmi College)
 
 When: 5.30 pm to 11.30 pm
 
 
