What happens to all the bricks used to make hearths during the  ? The fate of these blocks, which are bought for `100 for three pieces, was often left to destiny in the past but this year, the   (IIA) had a different plan.

 The team launched a campaign titled Beyond Bricks Movement, which aims at collecting the bricks for another revered task — building houses for the under-privileged. The IIA team, consisting of architects and students, collected the leftover bricks late into the night on Friday.
 IIA chairman Saiju Mohamed Basheer says, “We had earlier thought about how the bricks get thrown away without being re-used. However, the Pongala day this year coincided with the 100th birth anniversary of architect Laurie Baker. So, we came up with a plan to make the most of these bricks and also celebrate Laurie’s memories. Pongala leaves about 1 million bricks to waste that is enough for construction of more than 50 affordable houses. When we discussed the plan with the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, they were extremely supportive.”
 
 Posters and flyers requesting to donate the bricks were circulated on social media for the past few days. Once the Pongala concluded, the volunteers plunged into the scene, collecting as many bricks as possible from multiple spots in the city.
 
 “It was no easy task, as there were also those looking to take away the collected bricks. Our first task was collecting them and protecting them,” says architect Anoop Anandan, a volunteeer. After that, the bricks were taken to the sites of 100 installations across the city where renowned artistes are gearing up to make the blocks into beautiful art forms, without damaging them. “They would grace the road sides of the city, without troubling the public for three days, post which they will be donated to the Corporation’s social housing scheme,” Saiju says.
 
 Sarika Renjith, who was at the capital for the Pongala, says that she often used to wonder whether there was any better way to use these left over bricks. “I am glad that there is a plan now. I feel that similarly, someone can think of an idea for the leftover choottu (dry coconut leaves) used to light the hearth, so that they can too be collected and used efficiently.”
 
 
