PUNE: Are you down with fever and headache? Do you also have nausea, weakness and have vomited at least once? If yes, then you might be suffering from  , resulting from the prevailing weather conditions.

 The rise in day   and widening gap between the minimum and maximum temperatures have led to significant rise in the number of patients complaining of these symptoms in the city in the last few days. “The drop in the night temperature spurred by light showers in the last two days has provided conducive atmosphere for all sorts of disease-causing bugs to grow and propagate,” experts said. The city witnessed around 20°C difference between the minimum and maximum temperatures on Monday.
  
  
 “Heat exhaustion is far more common than sunstroke but is not as serious. It occurs when a person is exposed to heat and sun for prolonged period during the day. Such a person can experience headache with fever, have weakness as a result of low blood pressure,” senior family physician  , who sees around 20-25 patients with heat exhaustion every day, said. 
 
 General practitioner Mahesh Wayal said, “I see 8-10 patients with complaints of headache and fever, nausea and vomiting every day. Mainly school-going children, adolescents, young adults and those in the age bracket of 20 to 50 years are the most affected. Besides, I see around 20 patients with viral fever every day. There is perceptible rise in patients with skin complaints, including sunburn as well.”
 
 General practitioner Pravin Darak said, “About 60% of the patients visiting my clinic complain of headache with fever. Some of them also have red rash on the third or fourth day of fever. Usually, the symptoms settle with antipyretic drugs.”
 
 Summer causes imbalance of electrolytes like sodium, chloride and potassium. These three elements help in retaining balanced and good health. “A sizable number of patients are those with dehydration, burning sensation in the eyes and fatigue,” Darak said.
 
 One must maintain good amount of water intake in summer to keep such ailments at bay. “People tend to drink cold drinks when they are out in the sun. They buy them from unhygienic roadside vendors and shopkeepers and end up vomiting,” he added.
 
 
