Shimla: Developers of   in the state have appealed to the state government to reduce the royalty charged from them. “Currently, high royalty rates of 12% for the first 12 years and 18% for the next 18 years and thereafter 30% for the remaining 10 years render projects economically unviable,” said Himalaya Power Producer Association (HPPA) president Arun Kumar and Bona-fide Himachal Power Developers Association (BHPDA), president Rajesh Sharma along with chief patron, BHPDA R K Verma. The developers recently raised the issue with the chief minister Jai Ram Thakur. 

 In comparison, in Punjab the royalty rate is Rs 1.5 per unit, in Uttrakhand the rates are zero till the 15th year and 18% from the 16th year while in Jammu and Kashmir these rates were zero for the first 15 years and thereafter 12%. According to them, issues like complex procedure to get clearances besides very high open access charges need to be addressed by the government. They said currently the rates were as high as Rs 1.39 per unit as compared to other states. “The access charges in Punjab was Rs 0.57 and Uttrakhand Rs. 0.69 per unit,” they added.
 
 Power developers said that tariff was not linked with commercial operation dates of the project and transmission charges were exorbitant. They also demanded the power purchase agreement for 13 years be allowed to the period of loan repayment and subsequently the same may be continued or discontinued on mutually agreed terms providing flexibility to both the parties. 
 
 While presiding over the meeting of hydro power developers and producers in Shimla, a couple of days back, the chief minister said that effective measures would be taken to resolve long-pending issues so that the total potential of 27,400 Megawatt (MW) of identified the hydro potential in the state could be utilised. So far only 10,519 MW has been generated.
 
 Thakur said there was a need to resolve issues of the small hydro power producers to tap the potential of around 3,000 MW as identified by small power producers. He added that the government was contemplating making changes in the Hydel Power Policy and it would be ensured that in the first stage clearances should be given without delay within one month by all concerned. 
 
 He said that tariff can be discussed with the regulator and the tariff applicability from the date of commercial commissioning can be explored. The No Objection Certificates (NOC) with regard to Forest Clearance, IPH department and other line departments will be speeded up, he added.
 
 He assured the power producers that all their grievances would be redressed and resolved on priority. State multi-purpose project and power minister, Anil Sharma said the government would certainly take immediate measures to resolve the issues as discussed.
 
 
