BHOPAL: Noted musician  , known for his violin solos in   'Ghajini' and   with A R Rahman, was in Bhopal on Thursday for a private event. 

 
 Speaking about his musical journey, Pollock attributed his success and peace of mind to mediation and the 'path of spirituality.'
 
  About working with A R Rahman, Pollock said, "He is a person, who is open to new ideas and suggestions. Though he is known as a perfectionist, there was no micro-managing when I worked with him. I also had a great time being a faculty member in K M Music Conservatory- Rahman's music school in Chennai." Having stayed in India from 2014, Pollock, calls it his home. "It is kind of strange, but I feel homesick when I am in the US. After having felt the oneness with India, I do not feel like a foreigner here any more. It is something really beyond explanation," said Pollock. Having practised meditation for over 15 years, Pollock expressed his desire to make it more popular in the world by inspiring people from his own experience. 
 
 "Very few people from US engage in the practice of meditation, but I want to tell them that though meditation originated in India, it is not foreign, it is something that helps you connect with yourself at a deeper level. We must look beyond boundaries," said Pollock.
 
 The practice of meditation helped him hone his musical skills along with positive behavioural changes, said Pollock. "It is said that if you wish to know how much a person has changed, you should ask his/her spouse" he joked.
 
 "I began practising heart-full meditation in 2002 and observed that I became calmer and more open-minded. This calmness also reflected in my performance and musical career. After I started meditating, even music became a kind of meditation for me, as both things work to expand your consciousness. I also started writing books, something I never thought I would." said Pollock.
 
 Explaining his idea of music and meditation, Pollock said: "Music is healing for me. When the audience's heart resonates with mine during a musical performance, they enjoy the music more. Similarly, when my heart resonates with the source of higher energy, I tend to enjoy life more. This basically is meditation."
 
 
