SHIMLA: Chief minister   said that   would be connected through air routes under UDAN-2 scheme and for this his government will take up the issue with the Centre. He said that direct flights from Chandigarh to Kullu, Kangra, Shimla, and for tribal area would soon be a reality. Thakur also directed officials for looking for an open space for the construction of another helipad in Mandi.

 Thakur said this while addressing people in Mandi after formally announcing the opening of International Shivratri Fair at historical Paddal ground. He also announced 20% increase in ‘nazarana’ of the local deities. Besides, he also announced to double the honorarium given to ‘bajantris’, the musicians accompanying the deities and 20% hike in ration quota.
 
 He said that all the left-out deities would be registered phase-wise, for which the ‘Sarv Devta Committee’ will formulate the guidelines and thereafter examining each case would pass a resolution in the House unanimously. The committee would forward the cases to the district administration for necessary action. 
 
 He said that life of people of state revolves around local god and goddesses and local deities were inseparable part of people. “We should perform all the religious ceremonies as per the traditional practices,” he added. 
 
 He also thanked the people of Mandi for giving huge mandate to the BJP in assembly elections. He said that he will ensure that he visits Mandi district once in month to meet the people and redress their grievances. 
 
 He also announced channelisation of Sakodi rivulet on Hospital-Rewalsar Road in Mandi and directed for early completion of Dev Sadan, Mandi. He said that the government was looking for vacant open space for parking in Mandi and soon we would come up with proper parking places to de-congest the area. 
 
 Earlier, after paying obeisance at the famous   temple, Thakur participated in the traditional ‘jaleb’ (Shobha Yatra) of Shivratri fair which began from DC office ended in Paddal ground. Local deities along with the chief deity Madho Rai led the procession. 
 
 
