Nicholas Paul, 44, from Trichy has had as many as four surgeries, gets Factor VIII injected frequently and experiences several physical problems in his day-to-day life. But thanks to physiotherapy, Paul started to live an independent life, got his confidence back and has been pursuing his career as a lawyer successfully.

 On the eve of   on April 17, doctors and experts pointed out that people with the rare disorder -- in which the blood doesn’t clot -- are still hesitant to undergo physiotherapy, though it is an inherent part of the treatment.
 
 Though it can be painful at times, engaging in physiotherapy can significantly aid in the prevention of muscle contracture and deformity and even reduce bleeding to a considerable extent.
 
 Madhavan Srinivasan, an M Tech graduate, was diagnosed with haemophilia when he was six months old. Though he knows the benefits of physiotherapy, he still is hesitant to undergo the therapy fearing pain and bleeding. "The pain during bleeding can be excruciating. Since I am always conscious that I would bleed at any point, I don’t do physiotherapy regularly," he said.
 
 "Our role prior to and post  ," stated city-based physiotherapist T Tamilselvan. He said that exercises are taught to achieve two main goals: maintain range of joint movements and to strengthen all joints. "Exercising in a swimming pool is very effective. Some of the common techniques that are taught to persons with haemophilia are splinting and isometric exercises," he stated.
 
 A technique called ‘PRICE’ is effective for haemophilia patients having bleeding episodes. Intake of protein, taking proper rest, giving icing, dressing with compression bandages and making the patients maintain an elevated posture form the basis of the technique.
 
 Professor of medicine and person-in-charge for haemophilia drugs administration at   (MGMGH), Dr  , said that physiotherapy is an integral part of treatment. "When persons with haemophilia experience bleeds, mobilising the joints is as important as injecting them with factors," she said. The doctor added that only when a patient doesn’t do enough joint movements, the risk of contracture or deformity increases.
 
 Paul maintained that he has been attending physiotherapy sessions since 2005, albeit with necessary precautions. "One cannot do physiotherapy without getting the factor injected, because without that, the bleeding which stops, could start again while doing exercises," he said. Paul said that he does exercises in order to increase the muscle tone too. "Research has proven that when you increase your muscle tone, the bleeding is less," Paul said.
 
 
