NEW DELHI: In a warning to the judiciary that too much stress on the adage ‘let a thousand guilty go free than convict an innocent’ resulted in cursory acquittals leading to public outcry, the   on Wednesday said this led   to provide harsher punishments to convicts, such as death penalty for rapists.

 
 A bench of Justices   and   found to its amazement that in a 1992 incident in which three people were murdered and five injured in Amreli, UP, the trial court had wrongly framed charges and it was not corrected by the high court. Many of the accused died during pendency of the case, some were acquitted and the rest served their sentences.
 
 Slamming the state government, the prosecutor and the judiciary for the casual approach in a serious crime, Justice Chelameswar, writing the judgment for the bench, recalled a 1973   judgment penned by Justice V R Krishna Iyer, who had frowned upon “excessive solicitude” of the judiciary towards the accused by adopting the adage ‘let no innocent be held guilty’.
 
 In the judgment,   had said, “If unmerited acquittals become general, they tend to lead to a cynical disregard of the law, and this in turn leads to a public demand for harsher legal presumptions against indicted persons and more severe punishment of those who are found guilty. Thus, too frequent acquittals of the guilty may lead to a ferocious penal law, eventually eroding the judicial protection of the guiltless.” Justice   said, “This should be etched on the walls of every criminal court in this country.”
 
 The bench said Justice Iyer’s prophecy came true “when Section 21 of Terrorist and Disruptive Activities Act, 1987, burdened the accused to prove his innocence, and when Parliament responded to public outcry to impose more and more harsh punishment on persons found guilty of the offence of rape under Section 376 IPC etc”.
 
 The bench said there was a complete failure of justice in the Amreli triple murder case and the normal consequence would have been to order a fresh trial. “But such a course of action after lapse of 26 years of the crime, in our opinion, would not serve any useful purpose because as already indicated, some of the accused have died in the interregnum,” the bench said.
 
 “We are not sure of the availability of witnesses at this point of time. Even if all the witnesses are available, how safe would it be to record their evidence after a quarter century and place reliance on the same for coming to a conclusion regarding culpability of the accused?” it added.
 
 Taking recourse to the public damage principle, the SC asked the state government to pay Rs 25 lakh each to the kin of the three deceased and Rs 10 lakh each to the five injured persons within eight weeks through the Amreli sessions court.
 
 
