MEWAT: A fire apparently triggered by a short circuit and aggravated by bursting of cooking gas cylinders burnt down 57 huts and rendered 187   refugees homeless in a shelter camp in  , hours before they were to sit for iftar.

 Some of the residents said they had seen sparks in the overhead cables, suggesting there was a short circuit. A little later, the cables snapped and fell on the huts made of plastic sheets, tarpaulin and jute. As the wind fanned the flames, some cooking gas cylinders caught fire and exploded, burning down the whole camp in a matter of minutes.
 
 Around 1,300 Rohingya refugees live in six camps in Mewat, which together provide shelter to over 360 families. “We heard some low-intensity blasts and came out of our houses running. There was smoke everywhere and stench of rubber and plastic burning. Some cooking gas cylinders exploded, spreading the fire and burning down the huts,” said Akbar, a resident of one of the camps.
 
 “It took us a while to understand what was happening. We informed district officials and started pouring water on the flames. The fire was spreading fast,” said Haneef, another resident.
 
 Local villagers came to the rescue of the Rohingya refugees and brought some of them out of their homes. “All we have left are the clothes on our bodies. Even the ID cards of most members in the shelter camp have burnt. Only those who had their cards in their pockets have them now,” said Jafrullah, a refugee.
 
 Three fire tenders that were rushed to the spot by 2.30pm failed to bring down the flames, prompting the fire department to send two more trucks. By the time the flames were doused, the entire camp had been gutted. None of the 187 residents of the camp, however, suffered any injury.
 
 “We took timely action. Fire tenders and senior administrative officials, including sub-divisional magistrates, rushed to the spot. Later, fruits, water and other snacks were provided to the homeless refugees at the time of iftar. The administration will ensure their safety and well-being,” said  , the deputy commissioner of Mewat.
 
 Leaders of the community, too, appealed to residents of nearby villages to arrange for tents and food for the families whose huts were gutted. “The community will come together and ensure that these people are looked after and rehabilitated at the earliest,” said  , a community leader.
 
 In April this year, a massive fire had burnt down a Rohingya camp in Delhi’s   area, rendering 205 refugees homeless. A preliminary i had revealed that the fire had begun in a toilet in the far left corner of the plot, where over 47 families lived. Officials had suspected a short-circuit in an electrical wire that could have started the fire, which then spread to shanties made mostly of asbestos, tin and plastic sheets.
 
 
