NEW DELHI:   is thinking of diluting its demand that the 'criminalisation' clause be deleted from the   bill, as it finalises its stance in   where the legislation will come up for consideration this week. 

  Sources said the party was veering towards asking the government that the provision in the triple talaq bill be made bailable. Clause 4 in the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Bill, 2017, renders the offence 'non-bailable' with a prison term up to three years along with a fine. 
 
 The Congress believes that the penal provision, with an assured prison term for the offending husband, will hurt the interests of Muslim women by putting a spanner in finalisation of maintenance to be paid. Also, it will hurt the prospects of reconciliation among spouses.
 
 However, sources said the leadership was keen to focus on the limited issue while supporting the rest of the legislation. The party is mulling if instead of railing against the penal provision, it should only demand that the offence be made 'bailable'.
 
  Sources aware of in-house discussions told TOI that Congress president   does not want the party to appear as blocking the triple talaq bill. The stand is influenced in a big measure by the criticism that has dogged Congress since the Rajiv Gandhi government piloted a bill to nullify the   judgment. 
 
 In  , which passed the bill last week, Congress lashed out against the 'criminalisation' clause and sought its vetting by a parliamentary committee.
 
 However, when it came to voting on the bill, it did not back the amendments moved by either party MPs or by other 'secular' outfits.
 
 Congress's position will be critical in the upper House where the Modi government lacks numbers and the opposition can make or mar passage of the contentious bill.
 
  While a section of the Congress is adamant that the party back the bill - even drop the demand for its scrutiny by a parliamentary committee - a final decision may be influenced by the position that other opposition parties take. 
 
  If SP or BSP or the Left put pressure that the bill be sent to a parliamentary panel, concerns of opposition unity could force Congress's hand. 
 
 
