NEW DELHI: Classmates Aditya and Himanshu were eagerly awaiting the end of their exams to go on a trip to Manali with other friends. Their plans have been grounded due to the Class XII students having to sit for their economics   afresh.   has announced that Class X students too will have to reappear for their mathematics exam. The students protested at   on Thursday, demanding a thorough investigation into the leaks of question papers in the two subjects.

 The protest at Jantar Mantar was organised by student organisation AIDSO, “in solidarity with the school students”. It was joined by many youngsters who wanted “justice” after hearing of the re-test news.
 
 Aditya and Himanshu, students of   in Daryaganj, claimed seeing the leaked question papers on Facebook a night before the exam. “It was a handwritten paper with questions that correctly appeared in the real question paper,” said Aditya. “I didn’t pay it much attention because I thought it was a hoax. But when I saw that the questions matched, I realised the paper had been leaked.”
 
 Also at Jantar Mantar, Vandana, a Class X student at St Anthony’s in Paharganj, narrated she had been sleeping when a friend forwarded the mathematics exam paper on WhatsApp. “On the day of the exam I didn’t have time to go through the leaked paper. But many students in my exam centre had prepared according to the paper circulated,” she said.
 
 Vandana fretted about the dates of the re-examinations because she had “to go to Raipur for my brother’s wedding which was earlier been postponed because of my exams”.
 
 Class XII student Deepak Gehlot alleged that “all papers were leaked, not just the ones announced by CBSE”. Demanding strict action against the perpetrators of the scandal, Gehlot argued, “Surely someone from CBSE was involved in this massive corruption.”
 
 For his part, Hamza Abbas of St Columba’s School declared, “CBSE must roll back the re-test decision since many of us have to sit for the entrance exams for professional course. Otherwise, we will be confused about what exam we should prioritise.” The Class XII student claimed that many students were planning to boycott the re-test.
 
 Speaking at the protest, Delhi University Student’s Union president Rocky Tuseed said that “CBSE has played with the careers of lakhs of students, so their top officials should resign”. He also demanded that Union HRD minister Prakash Javadekar step down for his “inability to stop this crime”.
 
