PATNA: Two separate complaint cases have been filed against BJP president   and party MP   before a court in Muzaffarpur on Thursday for their respective statements on ‘selling pakoda’ and on Muslims to leave India on Thursday.

 While the petition against Shah was filed by one Tamanna Hashmi, the other one against Katiyar was filed by M Raju Naiyyar. Both the complaints were filed before the court of chief judicial magistrate Hari Prasad.
 
 Shah, few days back, while defending Prime Minister Narendra Modi, had given statement in Rajya Sabha during his maiden speech that selling ‘pakodas’ for earning a livelihood rather than staying unemployed was not shameful. PM Modi had given statement that a person earning Rs 200 daily by selling pakodas could not be considered as unemployed. The statement had created uproar in the national political scenario.
 
 Hashmi, in his petition, had stated that the statement of Shah has resulted in inferiority complex among the youths across country. Hashmi, while raising question that what is the point of seeking education if one has to sell pakodas. He said Shah’s statement had defamed the country’s educated youths.
 
 Meanwhile, in the other complaint against Katiyar, the complainant Naiyyar had said that the MP’s statement asking Muslims to leave India was provocative and had hurt the religious sentiments of people across the country.
 
 Naiyyar had also said that the MP’s statement might also result in communal violence in the country.
 
 Katiyar on February 7, while speaking to a news agency had given statement that Muslims should leave India as they have divided the country on basis of population.
 
 He had also stated that law should be brought for punishment against those who disrespect national flag.
 
 Katiyar had given the statement after AIMIM chief  , while speaking in Lok Sabha on Tuesday, has urged the central government to bring law to punish those who call a Muslim 'Pakistani'.
 
 The matter against Shah would come up for hearing on February 28 while Katiyar's matter would be heard on March 8.
 
 
