Guntur: Will he, won’t he? Giving rise to speculations on his joining the YSRC, senior BJP leaders Somu Veerraju and Paidikondala Manikyala Rao visited former minister Kanna Lakshminarayana’s residence soon after he got discharged from the hospital on Friday. The BJP leaders spent close to 30 minutes with him. 

 The veteran politician was hospitalised a day after quitting the BJP two days ago due to high blood pressure and low sugar levels. After bringing his health condition to normal, he was discharged from the hospital. However, the doctors have advised him to take rest for at least 15 days and not take part in any political activity.
 
 Although the senior BJP leaders said they came only to enquire about the health condition of Lakshminarayana, speculation is rife that the BJP leaders have requested the former minister not to leave the party in haste. They are said to have suggested to him to take a call on his political future only after meeting party supremo Amit Shah. It was not clear as to what was Lakshminarayana’s response.
 
 Lakshminarayana formally sent his resignation letter to BJP chief Shah three days ago and was supposed to join the YSRCP in the presence of its chief Jaganmohan Reddy near Gannavaram on Wednesday. However, he was rushed to hospital after suddenly falling sick in the wee hours of Wednesday.
 
 The pressure from BJP’s national leaders, including Ram Madhav and Amit Shah, not to leave the party is said to have raised the BP levels of the veteran leader. In this background, the visit of Veerraju and Manikyala Rao have put the rumour mills to work overtime. While the BJP leaders believe that Lakshminarayana would not quit the party, his followers, however, are confident he will eventually. 
 
 In fact, it was due to pressure from his followers that Lakshminarayana decided to leave the BJP and join YSRCP. Interestingly, the ruling   too is believed to be keen on getting Lakshminarayana, a strong Kapu leader in the coastal region, into its fold. Sources said two cabinet ministers are discussing the issue with the former minister over phone. A staunch supporter of a former minister also confirmed the lobbying from the TDP.
 
 But the continued silence of Lakshminarayana is adding to the suspense. “He is saying that he needs some rest and break after which he will take a final call,” said a close aide.
 
 
