SHILLONG: Four more legislators —  ,   from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and two Independents,   and Robinus Syngkon — will resign from the Meghalaya assembly on Tuesday to join the BJP ahead of the 2018 state elections, party officials said on Monday.

 “We will be resigning as members of the Meghalaya assembly on Tuesday and thereafter join the BJP at a public meeting in Golf Links,” Hek said. The meeting will be attended by Union tourism minister and election in-charge KJ Alphons and North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) convener Himanta Biswa Sarma.
 
 Hek is a former BJP-turned Congress legislator, who was the health and family welfare minister in the   cabinet before being sacked last year. He had contested and won on a BJP ticket in the 1998, 2003 and 2008 polls before joining the Congress in July 2009. He contested the 2013 assembly elections on a Congress ticket and retained the   seat. Sanbor Shullai is a former former deputy speaker had been sacked as the president of the NCP's Meghalaya unit while Syngkon is a former parliamentary secretary who had withdrawn his support to the Sangma-led Congress government.
 
 BJP state president Shibun Lyngdoh claimed that all the four legislators decided to join the BJP after observing the overall performance of the BJP-led NDA government at the national level. “Who doesn't want to be part of the growing and happy family? And there are more surprises in the days to come when more legislators will be joining us,” Lyngdoh said.
 
 These latest political developments in the state come at a time when eight MLAs, including five from the ruling Congress, resigned from the state assembly on December 29, to join National People's Party (NPP), which is an NDA ally. The five former Congress legislators — Rowell Lyngdoh, Prestone Tynsong, Coming One Ymbon, Sniawbhalang Dhar and Ngaitlang Dhar — along with former United Democratic Party legislator   and Independents — Hopeful   and Stephanson Mukhim — will formally join NPP at a public meeting on January 4. 
 
