CHENNAI: While bureaucrats in Delhi were fuming over the alleged attack by AAP legislators on chief secretary Anshu Prakash, Delhi chief minister Arvind   chose to be with   at the launch of the actor’s political party in Madurai on Wednesday.

 Speaking at the Othakadai ground in Madurai, Kejriwal said he had always been a great fan of Haasan. “I was a fan of   Haasan, the actor. Today I became the fan of Kamal, the real life hero.”
 
 Kejriwal, accompanied by AAP legislator  , said he liked the actor-politician’s guts to float a party in order to fight corrupt forces. “The best quality of Kamal is his courage to speak up and fight against injustice and communal forces in the country,” he said.
 
 “Till date, people of   were stuck between two parties - the DMK and AIADMK. Kamal offers an honest political alternative. Next time don't vote for a corrupt party. Now, you can vote for an honest party. Vote for Kamal Hassan,” Kejriwal said. Speaking later, Haasan referenced Kejriwal's words and added that the Delhi chief minister has helped launch poll campaigning for his party.
 
 Recalling the launching of AAP in Delhi, Kejriwal said, “The people of Delhi had rejected both   and   and gave us 67 seats (during Delhi election). There is so much of energy and hope in the people of Tamil Nadu that I feel that they will break the record of people in Delhi (and elect Haasan),” he said.
 
 Kejriwal said there was no dearth of money in the government. “There is only dearth of good intentions” he said, adding that the people of Tamil Nadu were ready to throw out the Dravidian parties and bring Kamal to power.
 
 “If you want corruption, vote for the DMK and AIADMK. But if you want schools, road, water, electricity, vote for Kamal,” he said.
 
 Earlier, the Aam Aadmi party leader refused to take questions from media as he arrived at the Madurai airport. Anticipating questions regarding the Delhi chief secretary's allegation of being roughed up by AAP legislators at Kejriwal's residence, the Delhi chief minister made a hasty exit and joined Haasan's entourage ahead of the function.
 
 
