THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The pro-China speech of   state secretary   Balakrishnan, which has become a sort of a 'fashion statement' in the current season of CPM district conferences, found a place in the Thiruvananthapuram district conference too. Inaugurating the three day district conference,   dealt at length on the achievements of China, Cuba,   and North Korea. However, he took care to treat China differently as compared with Cuba, Vietnam and   which have already implemented socialism. 

 "Communist China is yet to become a total socialist country. China has declared to achieve poverty eradication by 2020," Kodiyeri said. He alleged that the US was trying to create a sharp divide between South and North Korea and that North Korea has understood the ploynow.
 
  "The US wants to eliminate North Korea by arming South Korea. To resist this and to ensure its survival, North Korea is forced to augment its defence power," he said. 
 
 The CPM state secretary also told the party workers of the district that the   can win again and continue in power. "So far, the LDF has not got the opportunity to continue in power. If the government continues to implement pro-people policies and the party tries to strengthen the Left democratic front, we can continue in power," he said. The Pinarayi Vijayan government has been able to put in place an alternative development policy with social justice at its centre, he said. Kodiyeri criticised   sharply and said there wouldn't be any understanding with the Congress as long as it continues to follow neoliberal economic policy. He said that coalition should be among political parties with similar ideologies. 
 
 "A national alternative is needed against communalism and liberalisation policies. Joining hands with the Congress will prove to be advantage  ," he said. The CPM state secretary also unleashed a scathing attack against the communal and divisive agenda of Sangh Parivar. 
 
 The CPM district conference will conclude on Monday with a massive rally, which will be inaugurated by CM Pinarayi Vijayan. 
 
 
