NEW DELHI: The   moved the   on Tuesday challenging the Delhi high court’s March 9 interim order restraining the   (ED) from arresting   in a money laundering case till March 20.

 
 On March 8, the SC had allowed Karti, who is accused of facilitating irregular FIPB approval for foreign direct investment of Rs 300 crore in INX Media in 2007, to move the HC the same day and had even fixed a hearing for March 9 on his petition challenging the validity of ED summons to him in the case already under CBI probe.
 
 CBI’s petition challenging the HC order was mentioned for urgent hearing by advocate Rajat Nair, who told a bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud that such restraint orders would encourage offenders booked by the ED in alleged money laundering cases to rush to the HC to seek similar relief. The bench posted the CBI appeal for hearing on March 15.
 
 CBI said the HC’s interim order on March 9 amounted to granting final relief of anticipatory bail to Karti, who it said was prima facie guilty of abuse of the process of law. The agency argued that Karti had challenged the constitutional validity of the provision permitting ED to arrest on the basis of ECIR and as long as the provision was not declared unconstitutional, it must continue to operate.
 
 CBI said it was an error on the part of the HC to have granted relief to Karti till March 20 as it would encourage persons, facing similar summons from ED in laundering cases, to move the HC under Article 226 and get relief and blunt the probe.
 
 “Any interference by the HC through an interim order seriously hampers an investigation of a serious offence which is at a very sensitive stage of probe,” the ED said.
 
 Karti had said the cases under investigation by the CBI and the ED were identical and since he had been extensively interrogated by the CBI, it was not necessary for the ED to take him into custody. He had alleged that the ED had lodged an enforcement crime information report (ECIR), which is not an FIR, and hence issuance of summons to appear before the agency was illegal as well as breach of his fundamental rights. 
 
