GURGAON: Even if the city bus service is launched by summer, the state may find it hard to make it attractive to commuters because the first batch of   is not likely to be air-conditioned.

 All four bus manufacturers contacted by the   (GMCBL), the company that will run the buses, have expressed their inability to make   buses available in time for the planned launch of the service in April. As a result, the   ( ) has decided to go ahead and launch the much delayed city bus service, initially with 200 buses, with buses that are not air-conditioned. The city bus service is expected to have a full fleet of 500 buses. According to the initial plan, out of the 200 buses, 40 of them were to be air-conditioned.
 
 The Gurgaon city bus service has been hanging fire for over a decade now and the   government does not want to delay it any further. “We had a couple of pre-bid meetings towards the end of last year in which 25 concessionaires participated,” a senior GMDA official said on Friday. “While the response was good, all the four main bus manufacturers said they would have to re-engineer their buses as per our requirement and that will take close to a year. We want CNG low-floor buses and these are operational in Delhi and Noida. Our required volume of buses is also low, and therefore, for manufacturers to re-engineer their buses as per our need is going to take time.”
 
 According to sources, a cabinet subcommittee meeting is likely to be held next week in which a final decision to exclude AC buses in the initial lot of 200 buses will be taken, after which a corrigendum will be issued. “We were hoping to hand over the work order in January itself, which would have given enough time for the concessionaire to roll out the 200 buses in the next three months. However, with this issue cropping up, there might be a slight delay, even though we are trying to expedite the process as much as we can. A cabinet subcommittee meeting will be held next week to include the necessary changes after which the contract will be issued to the concessionaire,” the official said. 
 
 
