MUMBAI: A popular song from the film Don (1978) that describes the sights and sounds of Mumbai jests how ‘Bambai nagariya’ has a “Church-gate” but the church itself is missing. A little research proves that the shrine does indeed exist.   in Fort, which gives Churchgate its name, is the oldest British-era construction in the city.

 This is Point Zero, where the pin falls in ‘Bombay’, from where distance in the city was measured in milestones. Inaugurated on Christmas Day in 1718, St Thomas is set to celebrate its 300th anniversary on December 25. This is the main Anglican house of worship in the city where the bishop conducts Christmas service.
 
 As the countdown begins, several events are lined up to herald the tricentenary. On Saturday, parish priest Rev Avinash Rangayya and Dr Kamal Jadhav, who is a member of the celebration committee, led 25 visitors including several Parsi heritage enthusiasts on a tour of the church. Jadhav said, “We climbed a ladder right up to the belfry which is three to four storeys high. All participants were overwhelmed at the breathtaking view from the top. You can see the Arabian Sea as well as various landmarks around  .”
 
 Over the decades the beautiful church has been restored by various conservation experts, interestingly all women.   undertook the initial phase of waterproofing the roof among other tasks along with   who has since passed away. Somaya’s new book includes a chapter on this monument which she has admired since her student days. Swati Chandgadkar who restored the magnificent stained glass is a regular visitor at midnight Christmas service.
 
 Sheetal Gandhi has worked on the monument piecemeal since a decade and is cleaning and beautifying it for the anniversary.
 
 Gandhi said, “It is heartwarming how the caretakers of St Thomas have always been particular about maintenance and beautification although funds are scarce and sporadic. We are whitewashing the tower, fixing external lights so that visitors can enjoy the beauty of the stained glass even after sunset... Some old marble and stone plaques are being repaired or replaced.”
 
 Three hundred years on, the surrounding landscape has morphed from green to grey. Yet Point Zero remains an oasis of calm amid the commercial district of South Mumbai. Scores of office-goers come to sit silently and contemplate. Jadhav said, “Our prayer box is filled with requests each week. These chits are placed at the altar where the priest blesses them.”
 
