BHOPAL: In a major sop to state government employees ahead of assembly polls in  , chief minister   on Friday announced raising the retirement age to 62 years from 60, and extending promotion benefits to retired employees.

 This will cheer more than 5 lakh state employees. The CM also announced ex gratia relief of Rs 2 lakh to the kin of a journalist who was killed in a hit-and-run in Bhind recently.
 
 “There are several employees who are not able to get promotion as the case related to reservation in promotions is pending with  . Since the apex court is to decide on the matter, a large number of employees are retiring without promotion. We will ensure that all such employees get promotion benefits during their job or even after retirement. Apart from this we have also decided to increase the employees' retirement age from 60 to 62 years,” Chouhan announced at a ‘meet the press’ programme.
 
 The state government had made a provision for reservation for SC-ST employees in promotion, which was set aside by Madhya Pradesh high court. The state's appeal against the order is pending in Supreme Court.
 
 Replying to queries on the spurt in crime and speculations in the media about introduction of police commissioner system, the CM said the government will not spare anybody found guilty of committing crimes against women.
 
 “We have taken a strict stand to curb crimes against women. The government is seriously considering the proposal to implement police commissioner system in the state,” said Chouhan indicating amendments in proposal on giving rights to police.
 
 “Issues related to farmers, women safety and police commissioner system are not political agendas or raised only during elections. The MP government has been working on these issues and obtained good results,” Chouhan said.
 
 “Public security is our priority and I have only this in mind. There is no ego clash on police commissioner system and IAS-IPS issue is not at all in the scene,” said Chouhan, adding, that police force has been increased from 70,000 in 2003 to more than 1 lakh.
 
 The CM announced an ex gratia relief of Rs 2 lakh to the next of kin of journalist  , who was killed in an accident in Bhind last Monday. Chouhan said that the government would also bear the educational expenses of Sandeep's two children.
 
 The government has joined the 2 lakh crore club while presenting the state budget for 2018-19. Now the main focus will be to expand facilities and infrastructure, he said.
 
 
