INDORE: A 22-year-old, BSc student, had a miraculous escape on Friday when he spent five nights in freezing cold unconscious after he was attacked by a jilted lover and thrown into Pedmi ghats on January 7.

 Family braved red tape, ignored attempts of reluctant personnel of Pardeshipura police station to delay probe and conducted independent probe to dig out CCTV grabs that showed the victim being abducted in a car. Two days after sitting over the case, police traced him by working on the clues provided by family and later claimed laurels for solving the case.
 
 The victim Mradul Bhalla was found in a ditch unconscious in the jungles by villagers on Friday morning. He was referred to a private hospital in Indore where his condition was still critical. 
 
 Mradul, a resident of Shahgarh in Sagar, who was studying in Indore since past four years, left his rented house for breakfast on January 7 around 11 and did not return after that, said his roommate Sourabh Sen.
 
 On January 9, when Sourabh couldn’t contact Mradul, he informed his father Mohit Bhalla, 50, a school principal in Sagar, who later sought help from his former student   Jain in Indore to trace Mradul. 
 
 “I tried to register complaint at Pardeshipura police station but I was told that it wouldn’t be possible without the presence of parents,” said Deepesh adding that Mohit was called to Indore after which a missing complaint was registered on Tuesday morning. 
 
 His family claimed that since they were told by officials that the case was ‘not of priority’ for them, they started looking for Mradul themselves. 
 
 After sifting through CCTV grabs of over five shops and showrooms near Mradul’s rented apartment, Deepesh reached a salon where the owner told him that he had seen a youth being taken forcefully in a car on Sunday morning. 
 
 “I took CCTV grabs from salon and contacted police station in-charge following which we started looking for the vehicle number. A crime branch official then accompanied me to different places from where  , Vijay and Rohit were detained based on the number of the car which was registered in the name of Rahul – Akash’s elder brother,” said Deepesh. 
 
 Deepesh took the accused in his own car to the police station where they were interrogated. 
 
 Akash Ratnakar, 24 confessed beating Mradul to pulp to exact revenge for speaking to his estranged girlfriend of four years. He suspected Mradul was behind his girlfriend distancing herself for last four months.
 
 Akash with his friend Vijay Parmar, 20, and relative  , 23 abducted Mradul and threw him off the cliff after hitting him repeatedly with stones. They were arrested for attempted murder.
 
 Mradul’s neuro consult Dr Prashant Newalkar told TOI, “Winter cold helped him survive. Had it been summer, he would have died of dehydration.”
 
 Mradul sustained severe injuries on his head, chest and jaw. Some of the injuries in his brain are not even surgical, he said adding “We are first trying to normalize him and treat his dehydration following which he will undergo a jaw surgery.” 
 
 
