RAJKOT: There is no end to farmers’ woes in  . 

 Labourers in the Rajkot Market Yard, the biggest agriculture trading centre in Saurashtra, have threatened to stop work completely. Reason: Mosquito menace.
 
 The problem has assumed such serious proportions that the labourers have threatened to stop loading and unloading work for  . Traders have warned that they would be forced to shut down the yard if the problem of mosquitoes is not addressed.
 
 If this happens, it would probably be for the first time anywhere in the country that a trading centre will shut down because of mosquitoes. 
 
 There are 700 labourers working in this market yard and farm produce from all over Saurashtra is brought here for auction. The market yard has a daily turnover of Rs 60 crore. Newly constructed market yard is situated in   village on   road. The villagers are facing this problem since years because filth water passes through water drain behind the market yard, which mixes into river Aji. The old market yard is limited to sell vegetables only because of congested place. 
 
 Farmers come here with their produce and the labourers help him to store their produce. The unloading of the produce starts in the evening and continues till late night when the mosquito problem gets most severe. Labourers and farmers sleep in the market yard and the next morning, the produce is auctioned. 
 
 President of Commission Agents Association Atul Kamani said, “If labourers refuse to work, we can’t run the market yard. We have represented to the collector office to bring out a solution to the problem. If this doesn’t happen, we will be left with no option but to down our shutters and business.” 
 
 Interestingly, Rajkot market yard was newly constructed market considering the need of farmers and traders. Farmers from all the talukas of Rajkot, Morbi, Wankaner, Junagadh and Visavadar come here to sell their produce. 
 
 According to traders, eateries in market yard have to shut shops after 6 pm because it’s not possible to cook or to have food. 
 
 
