NAGPUR: You may have not noticed it but last year your power bills were marginally less than expected. State discom   saved Rs1,300 crore by buying   and passed it on to consumers through fuel surcharge.

 
 A source in MSEDCL said that   (MERC) had fixed the rate of short term power purchase at Rs4.50 per unit. “The power tariff for 2017-18 was fixed accordingly. However, our average rate of short term power purchase last fiscal was Rs3.75 per unit. The difference was passed on to consumers,” he added.
 
 According to the source, fuel surcharge was negative in eight out of twelve months of 2017-18. “This surcharge has been as high as Rs1 per unit when our purchase cost was far higher than that envisaged by the Commission,” he said.
 
 MSEDCL’s average long term power purchase cost was also lower than expected last fiscal. “We purchased power on merit order dispatch (MOD) basis, which means the cheapest power was purchased first and so on,” said the official.
 
 The official further said that MSEDCL had recently floated tenders for buying 1,000MW. The rate for this power will be just above Rs2.70 per unit. The benefit of this cheap rate will also be passed on to consumers in the coming years,” he added.
 
 “We will buy another 1,000MW through distributed solar generation. The rate of this power is also expected to be in the same range. Consumers will also get advantage of this,” said the official.
 
 Power tariff will reduce noticeably when all farmers are supplied power through solar pumps. “Farmers are supplied cheap power by burdening other consumers through cross subsidy. When MSEDCL no longer supplies power to agricultural pumps it will have to subsidize only lower end domestic consumers as happens in the case of Reliance BSES, Tata Power and BEST in Mumbai. This will benefit all consumers including industrial and commercial ones,” the official further said.
 
 Energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule has set a target of making all farm pumps solar by 2025. “This will happen gradually and as more and more pumps go solar, tariff will start reducing. However, solar rooftop policy is a cause of concern as high end consumers are going out of our net, which will hurt the tariff structure,” said the official.
 
 
