COIMBATORE: A city-based doctor, who runs a hospital in  , was   on Wednesday for allegedly sedating and sexually assaulting a 17-year-old nursing student.

 The arrested was identified as Dr K T  , chairman of the   Medical Centre at Singanallur. 
 
 The girl was part of a seven-member student group sent to ARR Medical Centre for a six-month practical training by a private college in Dindigul in November 2017. 
 
 According to police, Ravindran asked the student, who was suffering from severe cold and fever, to come to his chamber for treatment on February 5 at 7am. “He then gave her sedative and sexually assaulted her for at least 30 minutes as she went into a semi-conscious state,” said an officer.
 
 As she came out of the chamber, the girl collapsed. Her classmates rushed to her help and took her to their room, where she narrated the incident to them, the officer said. 
 
 Later, she contacted   (1098) and narrated the incident to one of its coordinators, M Suleka, who lodged a complaint with all-woman police (east) inspector Masutha Begum.
 
 Basing on the complaint, police registered a case against Ravindran under Sections 7, 9 (e) read with 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act 2012 and detained him on Wednesday night. 
 
 They produced him before a court here on Thursday afternoon. The court remanded him in judicial custody for 15 days. The doctor was later lodged at the Coimbatore Central Prison.
 
 Meanwhile, a group of doctors from IMA approached the police and the girl asking them not to file a case against Ravindran, said S  , a Childline coordinator. “However, the police had filed the case and arrested the doctor. Six more girls who were being trained at the medical centre had given their statements,” she said.
 
 “Nursing students who are facing such sexual harassment should come out and lodge complaint with the police or could contact the helpline at any time,” she added.
 
 The girl was part of a seven-member student group that was sent to ARR Medical Centre in Singanallur for a six-month practical training by a private college in Dindigul in November 2017 
 
 
