AHMEDABAD: Starving universities of funds, faculty, talent and then riddling it in politics and bureaucratic red tape leads one of the richest industrial states like   not being able to produce even one high-ranking institution. In the latest list under the Union ministry of human resource development’s National Institutional Ranking Framework ( ), just one Gujarat government-funded university and one private university rank in the top 100. Anand   ranks 83, and Nirma University is 94th. The rankings are based on five parameters, including teaching, learning and resources (TLR), research and professional practice (RPP), graduation outcomes (GO), outreach and inclusivity (OI) and perception.

 The state’s largest university,  , ranks 111th in the country, while the states’s largest technical university,   (GTU), could not even qualify for the NIRF ranking. GU V-C Himanshu Pandya told TOI, “Last year, we ranked 123, this year we have improved our ranking to 111 and next year we will be among the top 100.” This is the aspiration of GU.
  
  
 “To be high on the NIRF rankings, an institution has to have a strong reputation for providing high-quality teaching with a good faculty-student ratio,” says a senior GU official.
 
 M N Patel, former GU vice-chancellor says, “Our universities are not research-oriented and cant rise above politics. Hence, they stagnate. Teaching standards and learning processes are deteriorating by the day at our universities. One look at the placements of various universities is indicative.” Another important factor is the citation impact, which is a crucial research influence indicator for an institution. The NIRF ranking has also taken into account an institution’s placements, number of students choosing higher studies and entrepreneurship, median salaries, number of PhD students, quality of publications as well as patents published or granted based.
 
 The Gujarat government, on average, spends just Rs 5 crore to Rs 10 crore on research and academic development, after paying salaries for state-run universities. This is not even a fraction of the miscellaneous expenses in the budgets of ordinary government departments. Most universities survive on   funds, says a senior education department official. Not one institution figures on the NIRF rankings in the medical, law and architecture categories. Among management institutes, the centrally funded IIM-A is ranked first and IRMA at Anand is 43rd.
 
 
