NEW DELHI: It’s Beauty with a Purpose. Miss World Manushi   on   was chosen from 130 entries from over a hundred countries and launched from India by the Miss World Organisation under its programme for humanitarian causes. For Chhillar,   to   go beyond good feminine hygiene. She is looking for sustainable solutions to ensure more women break the period taboo.

 She was in the capital on Tuesday to spread the message, starting with an interaction with the girls of schools run by   (NDMC) under the “Menstrual Hygiene Management Curriculum”. In her interaction, Chhillar sensitized the students on the importance of understanding and maintaining hygiene during menstruation and use of sanitary napkins.
 
 “Three components — education, equality and empowerment — play an important and pivotal role in moving the country forward in every aspect. Menstruation is a natural phenomenon and it is neither dirty, nor a taboo,” she said, addressing the girls. “It is not a matter of shame for any individual, family and society. There is a need to talk about it openly in a bid to maintain a hygienic and healthy life.” She educated them about the dos and don’ts of using sanitary pads and urged them to discuss menstruation with their family members without any hesitation.
 
 She said she had realised from her own experience that not all have the privilege of progressive parents and a good education which makes access to feminine hygiene all the more difficult. She recalled her days in Sonipat while studying for her medical degree. While interacting with other girls, she realised that “it was not just a lack of awareness; they (the girls) didn’t have any shops near their village and had to travel long distances to get sanitary pads. Many felt uncomfortable going to medical shops that were largely run by men.”
 
 That’s why she adopted the issue for her project under Miss World Organisation’s Beauty with Purpose. In her endeavour, she was accompanied to India by the charity’s founder, Julia Morley, and Miss World colleagues from across the globe, representing Oceania, Americas, Asia, Europe, Africa, Caribbean and her predecessor, Miss World 2016 Stephanie Del Valle.
 
 Her colleagues said this experience in India was an opportunity for them to learn how this issue could be dealt with in their own countries. For each of them, reduced access to feminine hygiene products was a concern, either because it is treated as a taboo in their country or because hygiene products are highly priced, making them unaffordable for college or university students.
 
 Advocating the use of eco-friendly sanitary napkin pads, Chhillar said: “One should use the jute sanitary pads as these are more natural, made of fibre and easily available in India and other parts of the world. It is the need of the hour to spread the word and there is a need for change in the mindset of society with respect to the girl child.”
 
 
