Trichy: Helping illiterate and semi-literate put their grievances effectively on paper is a noble cause if done for free. The Federation of Consumer and Service Organisations (FCSO) has been doing precisely that and for nine long years under the stewardship of its president  .

 Members of the federation led by this 61-year-old retired company executive are a familiar sight at the district collectorate on Mondays when the weekly grievance meeting is held. It all started in 2008 when former collector T Soundiah appealed to service organisations to assist the petitioners in preparing their petitions as they were being fleeced by some people. . “To rescue these illiterate people from the clutches of touts, I readily accepted the request”, Sekaran said. Earlier they used to sit in the two-wheeler parking area to write the petitions. “Collector Jayashree Muralidharan made proper seating arrangements for us. Another collector, K Palanisamy, arranged for a Xerox machine to take the photocopy of a document for the petitioners free of cost,” he said. The present collector, T Rajamani, had felicitated Sekaran and his team at the Republic Day celebrations on the occasion of their service entering the tenth year.
 
 The team not only assists in writing petitions but also in giving guidance to the petitioners on matters such as payment of the requisite fee for availing of government services. Based on their request, collector Rajamani has now arranged for supplying packaged drinking water to the petitioners, he added.
 
 Sekaran’s transition to a consumer activist owes much to the legal battle he fought with his house owner in 1995. The case, which he won, gave him lots of insights prompting him to become a consumer activist, he said. Though he was working in a senior position at a private company, he dared to resign the job to serve the people. “After winning the case, I joined the Tamil Nadu Consumer Federation as a member. Then I created Federations of Consumer and Service Organisations to find a solution to a long-standing issue. I succeeded in many cases and was able to bring relief to many people in distress”, he added. 
 
 In his experience, almost 80 per cent of the people who approached the collector mainly sought land for a permanent shelter. “ It’s because people struggle to pay rent with their meagre earnings. But then, there is no specific scheme to provide land for building a house,” he said. “If any government tries to provide a permanent habitation, that would be of great help to the people below poverty line”, he opined.
 
 Sekaran was also the president of Tamil Nadu Consumer Federation and Thanneer Organisation, Air, Rail and Road Travellers Federation, Litigants’ Welfare Association and the general secretary of the Coordination of Consumer Associations of Tamil Nadu. He is also a member of District Road Safety Council, TRAI Advocacy Group and advisory committee member of Trichy international airport.
 
 
