KOLKATA: The city can expect a replacement for the most polluting of fuels — diesel — in the next three months, thanks to a Bengal government decision to enter into a joint venture with GAIL (India) Ltd.

 The state government on Tuesday told the   of its decision to enter into a JV with GAIL for the supply of   (CNG). The proposal would be placed before the state cabinet on February 15, the state additional advocate general submitted to the bench of Justice SP Wangdi.
 
 The matter has been hanging fire since 14 years ago, when the proposal to supply CNG to the state was first mooted. Environment activist Subhas Datta moved an application in the NGT in 2015.
 
 Diesel, which environmental experts consider to be the “dirtiest” of fossil fuels in use in automobiles, has been blamed for much of the city’s pollution woes this winter. AQI levels, monitored by the US consulate, have often breached the 400-mark this season.
 
 CNG to replace diesel; city homes to get piped gas
 
 Two private firms engaged in tapping coal-bed methane from the Asansol-Durgapur area were initially directed to explore the possibility of supplying CNG to Kolkata in 2015. Both firms, however, backed out after showing initial interest. GAIL then expressed interest in supplying clean fuel to the city.
 
 CNG, as planned, will initially be supplied in tankers to Kolkata, to replace diesel. Piped gas for homes will flow in from Jagdishpur in Uttar Pradesh in about two years. GAIL is laying the infrastructure to supply piped-gas to more than 1 crore domestic and commercial users in Bengaluru.
 
 “GAIL can’t operate on its own in the state. So a decision was taken to form a JV with state government undertaking Greater Calcutta Gas Supply Corporation Ltd. CM Mamata Banerjee announced the state’s concurrence to the supply of piped gas to houses in February 2017 but it kept getting delayed. Finally, in December 2017, the NGT gave the state government a month to finalise the JV with GAIL,” Datta said.
 
 “Things proceeded when GAIL clarified there was no proposal to split it. Justice Wangdi gave the state a week to finalise plans for the JV. The state on Tuesday said a decision was made,” Datta said.
 
 The NGT then directed the setting up of a steering committee to monitor JV’s progress. GAIL told the court it has identified locations in Kolkata from where the CNG supplied in trucks will be given to public vehicles. Nearly 95% of public carriers in the city use diesel and Kolkata has gradually emerged as the diesel capital of the country.
 
 
