HYDERABAD: Contradiction over Swami Aseemanand's confession dates in the   blast case proved a dampener for the National Investigation Agency ( ) prosecution team. 

 Rajah Balaji, who was the investigation officer when   (CBI) was probing the case, made contradictory statements about the date on which Swami Aseemanand disclosed before the agency his intention to give a confession. In fact, this contradiction by Balaji became a major setback and NIA special court judge K Ravinder Reddy also observed that it creates a "reasonable doubt". The fourth additional metropolitan sessions judge & special judge for NIA cases also questioned why   was in a "hurry" to ensure Aseemanand give his confession before a judge in Delhi instead of a court in Hyderabad.
 
 
  
  
 
 In the Mecca Masjid blast verdict, judge K Ravinder Reddy said as per the testimony of   before a special CBI judge in Jaipur in the Ajmer blast case, Aseemanand had made a disclosure on December 10, 2010, intending to give a confession statement. However, during cross-examination in the case, Balaji claimed that Aseemanand's intention was told to him on December 16, 2010.
 
 "The said witness (Balaji) told the court (in Hyderabad) that Aseemanand disclosed to confess on December 10, 2010. Thus, it entertains a reasonable doubt as to whether Aseemanand made such a disclosure on December 10 or December 16, 2010," the judge said in the 140-page judgment. 
 
 The special judge also found no "proper explanation" by the CBI officer as to why there was a hurry in moving an application before a Delhi court, where Aseemanand gave his deposition. "He (CBI officer) had ample opportunity to come down to Hyderabad after the end of police custody of Aseemanand. He could have moved an application before jurisdictional court with a request to record the confession statement of Aseemanand," Ravinder Reddy said. 
 
 When Aseemanand deposed in Delhi, he did not have any legal aid. The CBI officer did not disclose to the Delhi judge what Aseemanand had told the investigation agency between November 27, 2010, and December 4, 2010. The details of what transpired between December 10 and December 15 in 2010 when Aseemanand was in custody of CBI was also not disclosed by the agency to the judge. 
 
 The Hyderabad court judge, in his order, observed that some of the evidence on which the National Investigation Agency (NIA) heavily relied was actually "untrustworthy and false".
 
 
