NEW DELHI:   is lagging behind in solving crime cases this year and the backlog is piling up. Data compiled by the department revealed that of the 38,919 cases reported in the first two months, a staggering 30,480 remain unsolved. Overall, only 21% of   have been solved in 2018.
 
  
 A total of 79 murder cases were reported till February 28 out of which 59 cases have been solved. Last year, 77 cases were reported in this period. Similarly, of the 480 cases of robbery, only 327 cases have been worked out.
 
 The figures of crimes against women are not reassuring either as only 219 of 309 cases of rape reported till February have been solved. Of 433 cases of molestations, only 236 have been cracked.
 
 Crimes like snatching, vehicle theft and burglary have a poorer record. Of the 6,604 cases of vehicle thefts, 5,972 are still pending for action. Of the 916 cases of snatchings, only 269 cases have been cleared. Similarly, of the 21 cases of extortion 11 are yet to be cracked. Cops haven’t been able to solve a majority of hit-and-run cases with 53% lying in cold storage.
 
 Percentage wise, 91% of vehicle thefts, 84% of kidnappings and house thefts, 83% of burglaries and 71% snatchings are unsolved.
 
 In February, TOI had highlighted how a series of crimes — from murders to armed robberies, cash van heists and ATM thefts — have remained unsolved in the past few months. Sensational murders, including a Congress functionary being gunned down in northwest Delhi, a UK-returned businessman being killed in Malviya Nagar and many others, remain a mystery.
 
 Cases of cash van heists and thefts at ATMs have also been left unattended. In a recent case, where Rs 2.3 crore cash meant for ATMs was siphoned, EOW had not even registered an FIR after a week claiming it was conducting an inquiry.
 
 While local police say that they are burdened with other issues like law & order, the pile up of cases reflect poorly on specialised units like Special Cell and Crime Branch.
 
 Sources said many crucial posts are vacant, but officers are not being posted. Many officers are burdened with extra charge — a crucial post like law & order chief of north zone is on additional charge after special CP SBK Singh was transferred out of Delhi. The south zone too is going to be vacant after a month when special CP P Kamraj retires. EOW is also vacant with the transfer of Balaji Shrivastava.
 
 Mohammed Taj Hasan, a 1987-batch officer, was brought back to Delhi Police from NCB, but he has apparently gone on a long leave. Police commissioner Amulya Patnaik is keen on having Hasan as one of the law & order chiefs. If Hasan takes a transfer to Andaman, his counterpart could be sent to Delhi, sources said.
 
 
