Several beneficiaries of the decade-old state chief minister’s health insurance scheme in Tamil Nadu will get a ₹3lakh increase in the cover from the existing ₹2lakh. But what brings smiles to the faces of several health activists and policy makers is that the state now has an options to increase the number of beneficiaries or procedures without increasing its own budget.

 At present, the chief minister’s health insurance scheme covers about 1.47 crore families – nearly 4 crore people – for up to ₹2 lakh a year. “It is a cashless scheme, but if families have problems that are above the premium we pay the difference through a special corpus fund of ₹35 crore. “Patients get up to ₹35 lakh for heart and lung transplant. The surgery can be done at the government hospital or a corporate hospital,” said health secretary  . More than 5,000 people have so far undergone organ transplant and stem cell or bone marrow transplant with the help of the scheme, he said.
 
 The state will now have to decide whether it will bring more people into the scheme or include more procedures under the scheme, a senior official said. “We are already doing well. This scheme will help us do better,” he said. The   (NFHS-4) by the ministry of health and family welfare showed that while more than 70% of households in India are not covered by health insurance or schemes, some states like Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana had up to 64% of the population covered under scheme.
 
 
 
  
 
 The biggest advantage of the health insurance scheme in the state, according to joint director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam, is that the the government has been able to keep cost of treatment under control even in the absence of a Clinical Establishments Act.
 
 “We have over 800   that are classified into six groups. We pay a fixed cost for some   anything,” he said.
 
 For instance, some private hospitals that charge up to Rs3 lakh for angioplasty and stenting, do the same surgery for ₹65,000. In some cases, they are given and additional ₹20,000 when the second stent is required.
 
 “We fixed cost for most knee and hip implants after a detailed analysis. The hospital will not be able to profiteer from the equipment, but they will make profits,” he said.
 
