MUMBAI: In a setback to stateaided higher educational institutions, the Centre has refused to release funds till the vacant faculty positions in   and affiliated colleges are filled.

 The decision to block funding under the   (Rusa) is likely to affect projects, including faculty and infrastructure improvement, and research and curriculum development. Around 30% of faculty positions are lying vacant in the state’s aided colleges and the situation is worse in public universities, with   alone having close to 50% vacancies. In the last two years, the Centre has disbursed around Rs 160 crore under Rusa.
 
  
 In a meeting via video-conferencing on Wednesday, HRD officials made it clear that the state’s higher education department will have to fill its vacant positions, at least up to 85%, to avail funds. A state government official said the Centre has sought to enter into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the state to evaluate the performance of its institutes, and has laid down some conditions like filling faculty positions.
 
 The state has not managed to fill any sanctioned positions since May 25, 2017. The higher and technical education department is awaiting a review of the vacant positions and the new positions that have arisen owing to the implementation of the new Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016. The review is necessary before the finance department gives approval for the sanctioned posts. “Once the review is done, they will start recruiting again. We will seek some time from Rusa and give them an undertaking. The student-faculty ratio in the state cannot be fulfilled based on the requirement laid down by the Centre. They should consider the financial position of the state too. They have considered our request in the past,” said a state government official.
 
 Another official said this is the first time the Centre has decided to enter into an MoU with states and is seeking a written commitment. The government must take a decision on the recruitments soon. HRD ministry’s higher education secretary R Subrahmanyam said filling up vacancies is essential if the state want the funds. “It is the minimum qualification,” he added.
 
 Balaji Kendre, president of the  , said the state has not appointed any teacher since 2013 in the university. “More than 80% of the existing teachers are struggling to get their appointment regularised, their promotions are stuck, they are not allowed to participate in career advancement schemes. The government is trying to manage with the adhoc staff as they have been doing for years.”
 
 
