Ludhiana: Pargat Singh, a 52-year-old farmer from Khadon village in Ludhiana had been suffering from   for the past 20 years. Recently, he had a massive bleeding from one of the enlarged dysfunctional veins and was admitted to a private hospital. Dr Kulwant Singh, consultant cardiologist at the hospital consulted Dr Harinder Singh Bedi, who is one of the senior most cardio-vascular surgeons of India and had earlier introduced the minimally invasive method of treating varicose veins in Punjab.

 The previous techniques of treatment for varicose veins involved painful procedures and usage of large amount of anaesthesia. For Pargat Singh’s case, Dr Bedi used ‘glue closure technique’ for the first time in this region. This modern technique does away with the need of using high dose of local anaesthesia in laser surgery and is painless. A special catheter is introduced in the patient’s vein and the vein is ablated along with a special imported bio-compatible glue. 
 
 Dr Bedi, who is the secretary of the prestigious Venuous Association of India and is the patron and founder chairman of the Association of North Zone Cardio Thoracic and Vascular Surgeons, explained that varicose veins can occur in any part of the body, but are especially seen in the legs. Some of the most common symptoms of varicose veins are visible, twisted veins that are purple or blue in colour. Quite often, there is pain or a heavy feeling in the leg accompanied with burning, throbbing, muscle cramping and swelling in lower legs. Pargat Singh, the patient treated for the first time with this technique in Ludhiana, had an additional problem of massive bleeding from the diseased veins. Dr Bedi explained that bleeding is a troublesome complication of varicose veins and is potentially dangerous. Along with bleeding, the said patient had an ulcer, which was not healing. Such a stage is called C6 – the most advanced type of varicose vein.
 
 Dr Bedi further commented, “We have been treating varicose veins through modern modalities of lasers, radiofrequency and foam sclerotherapy. The glue procedure is a new, safe and painless method of therapy. Patients can return home the same day, as compared to conventional surgery where they had to be hospitalized. The glue procedure is performed under local anaesthesia and is scar-free. As this technique causes minimal damage to tissues, it is especially useful in patients, who are on blood thinners, are obese, have a groin infection, are old and in patients, who are scared of surgery.”
 
 
