NEW DELHI: With most of the trade shifting to online platforms, traditional gift shops have no option but to innovate if they wish to stay relevant. And they are doing just that in this season of love: as a result, Delhiites are spoilt for choice, whether it’s king-size teddy bears or perfumes and cosmetic products. 

 Owners of gift outlets, such as Archies and Giggles, acknowledge that card sections are getting smaller and that they are trying to adapt quickly to change. Amit Khanna, owner of   in Khan Market, conceded: “There is always a demand for something different.” He added: “Since people rarely buy a simple greeting card now, we have made technology-based interventions. LEDs, coupled-mugs and magic mirrors are very popular.” 
 
 Giggles, a gift shop in  , has been in this business for nearly 40 years. Guaravjeet Singh Kochhar, owner of the shop, said: “Customer demands have changed with every passing year. While shopping online is convenient, offline outlets like ours provide unmatchable range and discounts.” The once-lavish greeting card sections have been relegated to the background. “Soft toys that are several feet high are in big demand. Perfumes, bottled messages with love letters and gold-silver plated roses are also something people go for,” Kochhar said. 
 
 Nothing symobilises these winds of change more than, perhaps, the youngsters making a beeline for gifting cosmetic surgeries to their partners. Dr Indu Ballani, consultant at BLK Hospital, said while there had been a gradual increase in people going for such surgeries, this year there was a nearly 50% spurt. “Youngsters have become more open to procedures such as Botox and lip or cheek augmentation. Even men are seeking beard shaping with lasers to get, say, a Virat Kohli look,” Ballani said.
 
 Dr Reema Arora from the Cocoona Centre of Aesthetic Transformation said there was a 40% rise in cosmetic procedures, such as neurotoxins and dermal fillerd. “Nearly 40% of these patients are males. They want to get their lips or cheeks enhanced or eyebrows shaped,” Arora said.
 
 There are others taking the contrarian approach. Gastronomica, a restaurant in GK-I, is “Killing the Valentine”. A message on its official website reads: “Are you sick of heart-shaped balloons and pink teddy bears? Had enough of sugarcoated promises of undying eternal Bollywood love? We are at your rescue (sic)”. The restaurant has even come up with an “anti-Valentine” menu that includes a broken-heart pizza and cocktail offerings like “'Ex-girlfriends kiss”. 
 
 Meanwhile, disciples of a controversial godman have been urging youngsters to observe “Matru-Pitru Pujan Diwas” on February 14.
 
 
