MUMBAI: A   fire victim’s husband on Tuesday opposed the anticipatory bail plea of Mojo’s Bistro co-owner   and made scathing allegations about the fire rescue and medical care made available on December 29.

 Tuli was not given interim protection from arrest until the next date of hearing, Thursday.
 
 In an intervention application submitted through advocate Laxmi Raman, Rakesh  , 52, who lost his wife Parul, 49, said when the fire brigade arrived, “there were only 2-3 firemen trying to go up and (they) did not have oxygen masks to enable them to go inside the restaurant. The firemen took around 15-20 minutes to bring a water hose and the water started pouring out only 15 minutes after that”.
 
 
  
 Lakdawala, who also suffered injuries, said after he was brought down from the burning building, he repeatedly told the firemen that women, including Parul, were stuck in the men’s washroom. “The intervenor (Lakdawala) states that though these were trained firemen, they were rescuing only one person at a time… The intervenor was shocked to notice that despite there being other firemen downstairs, none were going upstairs to help rescue the victims faster,” the plea said.
 
 He added that Parul, after being brought down, was put in a vehicle which did not have an oxygen tank. “Upon reaching KEM hospital, the doctors did not give his wife oxygen but took her ECG and performed mouth-to-mouth (resuscitation) and tried to revive her. They were unable to and she was declared dead,” the intervention application states.
 
 Referring to the fire brigade report that embers from hookah that were being illegally served at Mojo’s had caused the fire, Lakdawala said it could have been prevented had   taken proper care in making the restaurant was fire compliant. “Due to the illegalities of the restaurant, the intervenor has lost his wife,” the plea said.
 
 The sessions court, hearing Tuli’s anticipatory bail plea for the first time on Tuesday, asked the prosecution to submit its reply on Thursday.
 
 Seeking anticipatory bail, Tuli’s lawyer Shyam Dewani called the fire brigade report amusing and said it was based on information received from Twitter and Facebook. The fire was an accident and at most negligence charges were attracted in the case and not culpable homicide, he added.
 
 The plea claimed propaganda to pin the blame on Mojo’s was started on social media by the friends of the absconding accused. All necessary permissions, including those from the fire department, had been granted to Mojo’s. It had proper exit arrangement and trained staff who helped evacuate the guests. Tuli’s plea claimed the fire authorities were making all efforts to save the absconding accused of 1Above and seemed to have been “managed”. “The contention is fortified by the fact that most of the statements of the alleged eyewitnesses say they first saw the fire at the east corner of 1Above, and no casualty of any guests (around 40) of Mojo’s Bistro is reported,” it said.
 
