KOLKATA: The city witnessed a festive Sunday as two communities got together to celebrate their new year that started with the advent of Chaitra. While the   celebrated  , for the   it was  , which will continue well into Monday.

 Almost every Maharashtrian home hoisted the “Gudi”— an ornate arrangement of great significance — to welcome the new year. It is a colourful silk cloth tied at the top of a long bamboo pole. Neem and mango leaves are attached to its top, along with a garland of flowers, and capped with a silver, bronze or copper vessel called kalash that signifies victory or achievement. The whole arrangement is hoisted outside a window or on the terrace as a harbinger of good times. The people of the community organized get-togethers and feasts at clubs — especially in Bhowanipore and Hazra.
 
  
 “While hoisting the Gudi and offering prasad is one part of the celebrations, preparing special dishes is what we all look forward to,” said Gauri Deshmukh, a resident of Harish Mukherjee Road. She migrated to the city from Mumbai and tries to bring the same zest to her celebrations here.
 
 “Keeping alive the tradition that we have followed for years, a special get together and dinner has been arranged in the evening and we are expecting a large turn out,” said Ravindra Shinde, a senior member of the Mandal.
 
 On the other hand, Sindhis celebrated the birth of their patron saint Jhulelal Cheti Chand with the 50,000-odd community members in the city spending time with their families.
 
 Businessman Anil Punjabi said: “We celebrate it across three days, which includes family lunch, a community get together, a visit to the Jhulelal temple and attending areligious procession.”
 
 Revellers gathered at a Middleton Row hotel where a Sindhi musical troupe from Raipur performed. There were also a live DJ session and delicious food. “This is that time of the year when our community comes together as one big family. However, since our younger generation seems disinterested, we included the DJ session,” said Punjabi.
 
 On Monday, the members will prepare an elaborate prasad before joininga procession from Sai Jhule lal temple on Free School Street.
 
