PANAJI: A little more than a decade after he migrated to the UK from Goa, Imtiyaz Shaikh has been elected as the borough councillor in Eastcott  .

 The 37-year-old father of two from  , who contested on a Labour party ticket, received 46% of the voteshare and has become the first Goan councilor to be elected in Swindon, home to roughly 20,000  . A borough council is a tier of local government responsible for services like rubbish collection, recycling, council tax collection, housing, and planning applications. 
 
 “Now that I’ve won, my aim is to listen to issues local residents face and try to find solutions while maintaining an honest and open relationship with the council and fellow councilors,” Shaikh told STOI. 
 
 Shaikh studied at St Joseph’s Institute, Vasco, and later worked at Western Union Shipyard Ltd. He also ran the ICJ dance school with two friends and helped out with his family business. 
 
 “I came to London in 2005 with a dream of making something out of my life, with the opportunities the country offered,” he says. “My experiences during the last 13 years have been nothing but positive, living in a country that embodies unity through diversity.”
 
 Shaikh later moved from London to Swindon and got involved in the Goan Swindon Association as well as the Vasco Swindon Association, and began interacting and supporting the community.
 
 The opportunity to join politics came knocking in 2013. “I didn’t hesitate in putting a foot forward as I believed this could be a more effective platform to help and represent residents,” he says. “In the years leading up to this, I realised that our Goan   living in Swindon needed a representative to raise their grievances and address their issues. Even though I don’t come from a political background, my policy has always been one of humility and service to those that need it.”
 
 Shaikh headed a project in which English lessons were imparted to senior citizens, and got the council to agree to the grant. The classes were taught by Goans, some of whom are teachers in Swindon, and others from different professional backgrounds.
 
 He also started an evening tea-time talk to encourage senior citizens from all communities to socialise.
 
 When asked whether it has been a tough political fight because of his Asian background, Shaikh says, “the fact that I have won the borough elections reaffirms that people here have been very open in welcoming me. Anyone who thinks otherwise in today’s society will struggle and won’t progress with change”.
 
 He contested on a Liberal Democrat ticket in 2014 and on a Labour ticket in 2017 for the parliamentary elections in Devizes, Wiltshire. 
 
 “I contested again because I believe the Labour manifesto can bring about a change,” he says. “I trust their ethos and post Brexit, Labour is the only way forward.” He adds that the party has always “stood by and supported immigrants and worked towards a fair and open policy for all”.
 
 Shaikh said that apart from the initial struggles of first-generation immigrants, Goans have made great strides in every sector. “They’re focussed and hardworking,” he says.
 
 He says that Goans and other residents supported him because of his ‘open and honest’ policy. “I work hard for them, and even if I can’t resolve their issues at times, I mediate between them and the council, police, schools and the home office,” he says. 
 
 
