Since being awarded Unesco’s World Heritage City status, Ahmedabad has witnessed a renewed interest in its architectural legacy and monuments. There are a number of stepwells in the city limits and in the vicinity, rich in subterranean architecture, more often than not embellished with highly ornate pillars, galleries and sculptures. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has started a sustained mission to revive these marvels using the original techniques and more modern methods.

  ni Vav (Jethabhai Stepwell) in   is one of the newest stepwells of the city, though it dates back to the 1860s. According to   in the 1905 report of the Archaeological Survey of Western India, it was commissioned by   (Mulji). Burgess states, "This wav is 210 feet in extreme length and from 21 to 22 feet wide, with a dome raised on twelve pillars on the entrance at the west end. It has the usual descents from platform or gallery to gallery".
 
 In the book "The Stepwells of  : In Art-Historical Perspective", Jutta Jain-Neubaue states that the stepwell has a corbel system of roofing at the entrance similar to that of the Dada Harir stepwell. The two stepwells also share similarities in the motif of a full-blown flower with a vase hanging down from a chain. The book also states that some ornamental parts are older than the stepwell itself.
 
 Sajjansinh Parmar, senior conservation assistant of the ASI Ahmedabad sub-circle, said they prepared the material with lime and mortar in the traditional method while repairing and reconstructing the old parts, so the repairs blend seamlessly with the structure. "We have also repaired the unique spiral staircases on both sides of the stepwell and constructed a new peripheral path so visitors can walk across the length of the structure while appreciating its features," he said.
 
 Parmar said that the repairs and renovation took about one and a half years with a team of expert artisans. "Similar work is being done by ASI at the Usmanpura Mosque, Malav Talav at Dholka and   in  , to restore their glory," he added.
 
 
