NOIDA: Ten days after the bodies of two sisters, Lakshmi (18) and Nisha (13), were found hanging from a tree in Noida’s Barola village, police are likely to file a final report pointing towards suicide as their investigation has failed to turn up anything conclusive.

 The girls’ family had alleged they were killed by distant relatives based in   but investigators said they had not found any proof of their presence around the spot where the sisters’ bodies were found, right next to the building in which they lived with their parents and three other siblings.
 
 The police also examined the role of the girls’ family after neighbours pointed out that they had remained inside the house well after the discovery of the bodies around 5am on December 26 and the uproar it triggered in the neighbourhood. The bodies were brought down only after the police reached the spot.
 
 The family had claimed that three relatives, including Ravi, a nephew who is married, his father Rishi and brother Rohit were behind the “murder” of the girls. 
 
 They also claimed Lakshmi and Ravi had eloped to Mumbai, where Ravi works in a caféteria. 
 
 Police questioned Ravi and Rishi but said that nothing came out of it. “Their presence at the spot that day could not be confirmed. Further, their call records also did not point to their involvement. As of now, all the evidence collected points to suicide and a final report (FR) will most likely be filed within the next 20-25 days,” said Sector 49 SHO Pankaj Pant.
 
 Police also told the family about the lack of evidence against the accused. “Police told us they were not behind the incident and they were let off,” Bhushan, the girls’ father who works as a sweeper in Neo hospital, Sector 50, told TOI.
 
 TOI had reported that the postmortem reports of the girls pointing to “hanging” as the cause of death. The postmortem report of the elder sister, accessed by TOI, read, “Ligature mark 29 cm, 5 cm from chin, 6 cm below from left ear.” The younger sister’s report read, “Ligature mark 28 cm, 4 cm below from chin, 3 cm below from left ear.” Police are now waiting for reports of the vaginal swabs of the girls that have been sent to the   (FSL), Agra. Pant said the FR would be filed after the reports came.
 
 The FR is a report from the police, detailing whether an offence has been committed and by whom. If there is sufficient evidence, the FR becomes a chargesheet. However, in cases where the police feel sufficient evidence isn’t available, the FR may be termed as a closure report. 
 
 
