BELAGAVI: The   of Examba in Chikkodi taluk are not a run-of-the-mill political family. Annasaheb and Shashikala Jolle, both entrepreneurs, touch lakhs of lives through a range of activities: microfinance, vocational training, women’s empowerment and job creation. They are the first couple in   to contest an assembly election from a national party,  .

 
 JD(S) president   and his wife Anitha, who had contested from   and Channapatna, respectively, in 2013, are the only other couple to have contested an assembly election in recent times in Karnataka. The BJP ticket to Jolles though is different from that of the Kumaraswamys, whose family calls the shots in their party.
 
 While Annasaheb will contest from Chikkodi-Sadalaga, Shashikala will seek re-election from neighbouring Nippani, which she had won by 22,000 votes in 2013 against three-time Congress MLA Kakasaheb Patil.
 
 Annasaheb had failed to enter the assembly in 2004 when he was trounced by Chikkodi strongman Prakash Hukkeri. This time, sources say, he was not willing to contest but BJP, which had no other candidate to take on Prakash Hukkeri’s son and sitting MLA Ganesh, convinced him to take the plunge.
 
 “Though the couple’s contest has created a sort of curiosity among voters, the road ahead is not smooth for both as Kakasaheb Patil and Ganesh Hukkeri have very strong bases in their respective constituencies,” said a BJP worker.
 
 But the Jolles’ challenge cannot be dismissed either as their outreach in both constituencies through their social work is massive. Through Shri Beereshwar Cooperative Credit Society, the duo is a familiar name in many households. Spread in Karnataka and Maharashtra, the society has 151 branches with an annual turnover of over Rs 1,000 crore. Started in 1991, the society has now expanded and diversified, organising several sports, cultural, art and spiritual programmes as part of its social outreach mission every year. Prerana Utsav, a cultural programme organised in Nippani and Examba every year to give a platform to budding talents, is very popular in the region.
 
 The couple also run nearly 15 educational institutions in Nippani and Chikkodi-Sadalaga constituencies, besides operating a family counselling centre in Chikkodi, readymade-cloth manufacturing units in Nippani, Examba, Mangur and Pattankuri, Mahila Santvan Centres in Athani and Nippani, a gym in Examba and supermarkets at many villages under the Jolle Udyog Samooha. They also run a residential school for intellectually disabled children in Examba.
 
 The residential school draws on their own experience with one of their two sons, Jyotiprasad, who is special. Determined to ensure their son and children like him are not isolated, the Jolles started the Ashajyoti Residential School for Mentally Challenged. More than 100 students from various parts of the state study at the school. Jyotiprasad, 25, who studied in the school, is now president of the institution.
 
