LUCKNOW: After shaking hands with the arch-rival  , the   is now reaching out to Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) in  . SP chief   Yadav has deputed party's vice-president Kiranmoy   to call on RJD chief   Prasad in jail and then meet his son Tejashwi in Ranchi. 

 Coming days after Akhilesh called on BSP supremo   in Lucknow, the development is being widely seen as the beginning of coming together of regional satraps against a common rival - the  .
 
 The meeting with RJD founder will take place on March 24 either at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) where he was admitted on Saturday after complaint of chest pain, or at Birsa Munda Jail in Ranchi where he is lodged at present, if he is discharged from the hospital by then. The 69-year-old former Bihar chief minister is serving a prison sentence in a fodder scam case.
 
 "In any case, we have already taken permission from the jail authorities and have been allotted the time between 8 am and 12 noon on March 24," Nanda told TOI. "After meeting Laluji, I will meet his son Tejashwi," he said.
 
 The SP vice president described the move as a "courtesy call", claiming that the RJD has been with the SP all through. "Lalu ji has always stood by the SP without any electoral interest and had earlier attended party events as well," he said adding that he would carry a message of opposition unity on behalf of his party president. "The BJP government at the Centre has taken the country for a ride. Before 2014 Lok Sabha polls, they promised to double the income of farmers and give jobs to unemployed youths but they have not kept their promises. It is time for the parties which represent farmers, youths and the deprived, to come together," Nanda told TOI on Sunday.
 
 
 
 
 For the SP’s first family, Lalu holds a special place.
 
 The veteran politician’s youngest daughter Rajlakshmi is married to SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav's grandnephew and Mainpuri MP Tej Pratap. Not only this, as the war within SP’s first family was getting bitter by the day, Laluhad publicly advised Akhilesh to patch up with his uncle Shivpal Yadav at SP’s silver jubilee celebrations held in Lucknow in November 2016.
 
 Senior SP leaders were confident that Lalu and his party would be on board for any initiative taken by Akhilesh for Opposition’s unite as the former Bihar CM had, on a couple of previous occasions, mooted the idea of uniting regional parties to stop the saffron surge sweeping the country.
 
 The RJD veteran had in August 2017 organised ‘BJP Bhagao, Desh Bachao’ rally in Patna which was attended by Akhilesh Yadav apart from West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and senior politician Sharad Yadav among others. BSP supremo Mayawati had, however, stayed away.
  
 
 
