NEW DELHI: Home minister   on Saturday attacked Pakistan for giving political legitimacy to terror mastermind   and said Indian security forces can cross the borders, if needed, to protect the country’s territorial integrity.

 
 Asserting that Jammu and Kashmir will remain an integral part of India, Singh said the government wants a permanent solution to the Kashmir issue and the interlocutor appointed by it is ready to talk to anyone who is willing to have a dialogue. “We not only secure India internally but can also cross border, if needed, to protect the country,” he said at the ‘Rising India’ summit, organised by News18.
 
 The army carried out surgical strikes across the LoC in September 2016 at terror launch pads to avenge the attacks in Jammu and Kashmir.
 
 Singh stated India wants to maintain friendly relations with Pakistan but the latter was not keen for it, rather it was giving “political legitimacy” to LeT founder and 26/11 Mumbai terror attack mastermind Hafiz Saeed.
 
 “Pakistan is now providing political legitimacy to a UN-designated terrorist. Hafiz Saeed is now allowed to form a political party, he will contest elections and go to  . The  , which is responsible for killings of scores of people is being abetted and given protection. It is shocking,” he said.
 
 Singh said Prime Minister   achieved huge success in taking the fight against terrorism to the international fora. Earlier, nobody talked against Pakistan's terrorism and now the US has also condemned Pakistan, he said.
 
 He said despite Pakistan’s best efforts, Kashmir would never be separated from India. “Kashmir was with India, Kashmir is with India and it will remain with India forever,” he said, adding, “Kashmir's children are like my own and would not allow anyone to radicalise them.”
 
 “I want to tell those who are trying to teach jihad to innocent Kashmiri youths that they should first learn the real concept of jihad in Islam,” he said. The minister said he had personally asked Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister   to ignore cases filed against first-time stone-pelters.
 
 Following Singh’s request, the J&K government withdrew cases registered against 9,730 people involved in stone-pelting incidents, including first-time offenders.
 
