NEW DELHI: Back-to-back wins have put two-time   champions   back in the top two of the   Points Table, and no one is happier than coach/mentor  . The former   and South Africa allrounder, who has scored 1295 runs for the franchise between 2011 and 2014, said that although the wins have come at the right time, KKR need to carry forward the good work to sustain this winning momentum.

 
 
 
 “Two outstanding victories have put us back on track, but you can never take your eye off the ball in this game – literally and metaphorically. We have to give it another mighty push on Saturday against the inform Kings XI,” Kallis wrote in his column for TOI on Saturday.
 
 
 
 The wins Kallis is referring to are the ones that were registered against Delhi Daredevils and Rajasthan Royals. Against the Daredevils, KKR defended a daunting total of 200 that was formed around Nitish Rana’s 59 and an explosive 12-ball 41 from West Indies allrounder Andre Russell. Next up, against the Royals, KKR comfortable chased down a target of 141 with seven wickets remaining. All these factors, Kallis believes, are detrimental to KKR hitting the straps early in the tournament.
 
 “Andre Russell is seeing the cricket ball as big as a soccer ball at the moment. What a staggering intervention against Delhi! We were comfortably heading towards a total of around 175-180 when he arrived at the crease. He smashed six out of 11 balls for six and was out to the 12th. Wow. Just wow,” Kallis, who has scored almost 25000 runs for South Africa, wrote.
 
 “One of the most pleasing aspects of our start is the number of players who have contributed and the fact that we are not relying on certain individuals. Having said that, you just can’t stop certain guys from performing, like Sunny Narine, who has been in prolific form with bat and ball. Only those who have seen him regularly behind the scenes will know just how much work he has put in to remodel his action and remain effective. I don’t think he’s as good as ever – I think he’s better than ever. We are very fortunate to have him.”
 
 KKR next take on Kings XI Punjab on Saturday.
 
