MAPUSA: Fisheries minister Vinod Palyekar launched the ‘Fishermen Dialogue’ organized by the directorate of fisheries at Morjim on Friday. Palyekar said he would be holding a series of dialogues with the state’s traditional   from January onwards to understand their grievances. 

 During the dialogue, department officials will be accompanying him who will try to provide on-the-spot solutions for the issues faced by the fishing community. Deputy director of fisheries  , local MLA Dayanand Sopte, Morjim sarpanch Shanti Poke, Morjim Fishermen Association president   and others were present.
 
 Around 70 fishermen from Keri, Arambol, Ashvem and Morjim participated in the dialogue and put forth their grievances. The basic needs of the fishermen were construction of finishing ramps and shades, demarcation of the areas for traditional fishermen. Another issue was the nationalization of state rivers.
 
 Palyekar said traditional fishermen are from poor communities and to sustain the traditional activity his department will constructs ramps and shades to provide safety shelter to their nets and equipment.
 
 Former Arambol sarpanch Daniel D’Souza said the government should earmark designated areas for traditional fishermen and shack owners. He said that during the tourist season shacks are allowed at places of the fishermen and they have hard time venturing into sea with their boats.
 
 Arwind Morje said that there is a threat to the huts of fishermen at Vitthaldaswada in Morjim because of the rising sea level in the monsson and demanded the construction of shade as a permanent solution.
 
 A fisherman from Morjim said that nationalization of rivers can spell doom for traditional fishermen. They also demanded action against “illegal late night parties” on a boat in River Chapora.
 
 Palyekar assured the fishermen that the issue of nationalization of rivers will not affect them and if anything happens then he will stand by them as 12 nautical miles come under the state government jurisdiction and no one can stop them from fishing there.
 
 Sopte said that there needs to be clear demarcation of areas between shack owners and fishermen on the beaches so that both can do their business without obstructing each other.
 
 
