BHOPAL: In a stunning development in the alleged multi-crore Mumbai land scam, the Madhya Pradesh government on Friday filed a complaint against Atul Borkar, manager of Provident Investment Company Ltd (PICL) — a PSU of the state finance department.

 An FIR has been registered against Borkar at   police station in Mumbai by PICL. Borkar was terminated this week by the state government on the basis of a report submitted by IAS officer Smita Bharadwaj, say sources.
 
 The MP government took action in the land deal controversy only after   registered two FIRs against PICL and MP government officials over alleged fraudulent transfer of 314 acres of land to builders in Thane. Finance minister   is chairman of PICL while principal secretary Aniruddha Mukherjee is its managing director. Borkar was a clerk in the company and got promoted to manager.
 
 In the case dating back to the days of Princely State of Gwalior in 1925, CBI has filed two FIRs to probe alleged fraudulent transfer of 314 acres of prime land in Thane to builders by officials of a PSU and MP finance department. The transfer of 314 acres in Majiwada and Yeoor — once held by Gwalior State and, after Independence, the Union government as mortgage — took place in 1968. Thereafter, it was allegedly parcelled away at throwaway prices in connivance of some officials of PICL and Thane Municipal Corporation, CBI FIRs allege.
 
 CBI has filed cases under sections of criminal conspiracy, cheating and corruption against unnamed officials of all the three bodies and some unidentified builders.
 
 The case pertains to land which was mortgaged by former textile baron Mathuradas Gokuldas, held at Yeoor and Majiwada revenue villages of Thane district, to secure consolidated debt and interest against the loan taken by his family for business purposes from the erstwhile Princely state of Gwalior.
 
 The deed of indenture of mortgage dated September 03, 1925, was done through its agent  , which was registered at the office of sub-registrar of assurances at Bombay. Dinshaw was the second son of the Karachi landowner and philanthropist Seth Edulji Dinshaw, and was one of pre-partition India’s most prominent businessmen and lawyers.
 
 The properties of Mathuradas Gokuldas in Mumbai, Thane and Pune were mortgaged to the Gwalior State through the deed which included the land at Yeoor and Majiwada villages. “After the death of Dinshaw, a deed of indenture was executed on June 10, 1938 between the transferors Gwalior Darbar represented by its finance minister and Provident Investments Company (PIC) which transferred and assigned the mortgage to PIC which was looking after the financial investment portfolio of erstwhile Gwalior Darbar, a princely state,” it alleged.
 
