Pune: The city’s Christian community will celebrate the resurrection of Jesus Christ on Sunday. Easter, begins with people going to the church in the morning followed by a feast enjoyed by family and friends. 

 Speaking about the festival’s preparations, Raju Barde from Hindustani Convent Church said, “The church is being cleaned for the Holy Communal which will be held between 9am and 12pm, after which families generally enjoy a big feast.”
 
 A city-based student, Sanaya Dhondy, said she would celebrate the day with her family. “I celebrate the festival by going to the church in the morning, after which I have a meal with my family. The week before Easter is called the Holy Week. Maundy Thursday is followed by Good Friday, the day Jesus Christ was crucified, and the following Saturday is a quiet day. On Sunday, we celebrate Easter, the resurrection of Christ,” she said. 
 
 Dhondy said the Easter eggs signify rebirth and they are exchanged during the festival. “Easter is celebrated in different ways across the globe. My friend from Germany said they paint eggs and hide them around the house for people to find them. We don’t do this. We celebrate it with a meal and give children chocolate eggs,” she said. 
 
 Another city resident, Jennifer Palghadmal, said, “Easter is celebrated with great pomp all over the world. It is the victory over sins as Jesus Christ rose on the third day after his death. We have a night vigil, where we go to the church and welcome the risen lord. We make the Easter eggs in advance and celebrate with family at home with various delicacies. Each family member makes a special dish and the kitchen is filled with friendly family banter.”
 
 Across the world, many churches hold special services on Easter Sunday, which celebrate Christ’s resurrection after his crucifixion. Many people also decorate eggs. These can be hard boiled eggs that can be eaten later, but may also be model eggs made of plastic, chocolate, candy or other such material. 
 
 It is also common to organize Easter egg hunts. Eggs of some form are hidden, supposedly by a rabbit or hare. People, especially children, then search for them. In some areas, Easter egg hunts are a popular way for local businesses to promote themselves or may even be organized by churches. 
 
 
