GURUGRAM: It’s one of those stories of hope India abounds with. A farmer’s son who doesn’t even have enough money to support his family, embraces  .  , from Sonepat, is an 11-year-old lad who doesn’t know much about skating on ice but is eager to make a name for himself in the sport.

  He was one of approximately 200 youngsters from across Haryana – including around 50 from Gurgaon – who attended a two-day state-level training camp, organised by the   at iSKATE, the NCR’s only all-season rink. On Sunday, the facility hosted the 2nd Haryana Ice Skating State Championship, which was dominated by city skaters.
 
  Shivam was among eight underprivileged kids taking part, from the districts of Hisar, Mewat, Palwal and Sonepat. “My father is a farmer, he earns less than Rs. 4,000 per month. A pair of professional skates come for Rs. 9,100 (and) I don’t have any skates of my own,” Shivam told TOI.
 
  Up until now, he has been skating on roller skates, which he took up at age six. “Before coming to this camp, I had always practised on roller skates, since Sonepat doesn’t have a rink.
 
  “And balancing on skates with blades is not easy. I was initially afraid to put on the ice skates – my only concern was, ‘Will I be able to balance myself?’” He needn’t have worried. On his first day performing on ice, Shivam surprised all by topping his age category. “We have encouraged kids who are from poor families to take up this sport,” shared Navdeep Singh, secretary general,  .
 
  For the record, Shivam won silver in his category (10-12 years), with Sonepat ending in joint third place, alongside Hisar, in the final medals tally. Gurgaon topped the table with 12 golds, led by the girl trio of Radhika, Lavanya and Chinmai, while Palwal and Faridabad finished joint second. Competition was held in six age categories, with the youngest participant four years old and the oldest 19.
 
  Meanwhile, Shivam plans to enter more competitions to get further exposure to ice skating. And he’s looking for monetary support to help him take his talent further. “He can balance much better than other kids, (and) I foresee a future Indian skater in this youngster,” says coach Suman Lata, who sees a lot of potential in the Sonepat boy.
 
 
