Kolkata: When   and Mrinal Sen overlooked  , why did Ritwik   make an exception? Not one, twice over he cast Surpiya in two of his cult films – “Meghe Dhaka Tara” and “Komal Gandhar”. Unlike her peers — Suchitra Sen, Lily Chakraborty, Sandhya Roy and   — it was Supriya’s role in Ghatak’s films and Madhabi Mukherjee in Ray’s cinema that triggered global cinematic discourses.

 In 1960, Ghatak had cast Supriya as Neeta – a character which also inspired   in 2006 to cast her in “The Namesake”. The first day of shooting was in Shillong. Supriya had shot the “Dada… aami baanchte chai” scene in sync sound. But later, Ghatak made her dub her lines. His logic was: ‘If we have a notation for songs, why shouldn’t there be one for cacophony?” Among the various remembered dialogues of Supriya, this particular one has passed the test of time.
 
 In 1963, Ghatak repeated her in “Komal Gandhar” where she played Anasua - a girl torn between her growing love for a man committed to theatre for political awareness and her engagement to another man.
 
 It was partly her long neck that Ghatak had first noticed when he decided to cast her. Ghatak was influenced by Carl Theodor Dreyer’s “The Passion of Joan of Arc” where the director used a fall of close-ups of the lead actress Renée Jeanne Falconetti. “Ghatak had wanted an actress whose features could be choreographed to construct a national symbol of agony and resistance. He felt Supriya’s long neck and rough edges in her face could be stripped of their lyrical hangover,” said film scholar Sanjoy Mukhopadhyay.
 
 In his writings on ‘Komal Gandhar’, Ghatak had mentioned why he had used Supriya’s head and neck in close-up shots to portray her as the great mother figure both in ‘Komal Gandhar’ and ‘Meghe Dhaka Tara. “However, he never shared these details with Surpiya, who was pleasantly surprised when I once told her about how Ghatak had written about his association with her neck and how he wanted to conceptualise Supriya as the mother goddess in his cinema,” Mukhopadhyay said.
 
 According to professor of film studies’ department of Jadavpur University Moinak Biswas, “Supriya Devi had a distinctive presence in relation to her peers. With a strongly-built body and a deep voice she foregrounded a sensual yet soothing presence.” Biswas said that a good director such as Ghatak could put these qualities to great use. “In ‘Meghe Dhaka Tara’ and ‘Komal Gandhar’, Ghatak used her head, long neck and her torso, sometimes her walk, as part of a choreography. He made her dance quietly through these films, which would have been impossible with other actors of the time,” Biswas analysed.
 
 What Ghatak also liked was the fact that instead of being “a sight of pleasure”, Surpiya often became a threatening presence exuding aggressive sexuality on screen. This was most effectively used in “Meghe Dhaka Tara”, especially in the multiple scenes of Neeta staring out of the window to look at the world at large. Mukhopadhyay describes this look as one which exercises “a right to see without being seen”! “The gaze, which could have been a voyeuristic one, soon transcends the limitations of patriarchy,” Mukhopadhyay said.
 
 The first day Supriya went to meet Ghatak at his Bhowanipore residence, she had got late at a shooting for a commercial film. To add to her worries, her slipper had strapped on the way to Ghatak’s residence. Ghatak, who was standing outside his house, had watched this.
 
 Of course, this wasn’t part of their conversation. But much later, when Ghatak went on to shoot “Meghe Dhaka Tara”, Supriya realised that the maverick maker had incorporated this episode in his film. Early on in the film after Neeta wards off the warnings of a local grocer unwilling to give credit, she walks down a potholed road of a refugee colony. Her ubiquitous jhola bag hangs from her shoulder. Suddenly, the strap of her kolhapuri slipper comes off. Neeta picks it up, looks at it for a second and then walks ahead bare feet. Though apparently disconnected, it required someone of Ghatak’s calibre to transport Supriya’s personal experience to emphasise Neeta’s struggle.
 
