NASHIK: In the wake of the owners of private hospitals not responding to the civic administration's call to renew their licences, the   ( ) has set April 15 as the last date for renewal of licences failing which stringent action will be taken against the establishments including cancellation of their licence. 

 Around 316 private hospitals, nursing homes, maternity homes and clinics across the city have come under the radar of the civic administration for non-renewal of licences. It is mandatory for all private hospitals to renew their registration with the civic body after every three years.
 
 There are a total of 566 registered hospitals, maternity homes and clinics across the city. Around 250 units have renewed their licences within the stipulated time frame. 
 
 "Initially, NMC had sent notices to many private hospitals, maternity homes and clinics for not renewing their licence. Owners of around 316 such establishments are yet to respond to the notice and renew their licence. After April 15, we will take strict action against those hospitals which have not renewed their licence," said officials from NMC's medical department. 
 
 "We will be sending final notices to the 316 establishments after April 15. If there is still no response, we will start cracking the whip," said NMC officials.
 
 The Nashik Chapter of the   said there are 'some teething problems' that are preventing most private hospitals from renewing their licence with the NMC. "Many hospitals are old and located in areas like Old city and  . Owners of these hospitals and clinics used to regularly renew their licence. However, some time back, NMC's town planning department imposed strict conditions for renewing the licences which the owners are finding difficult to comply with," said Hemant Sonawnis, a senior member of IMA, Nashik.
 
 He said the new rules stipulated by the town planning department entails that all private hospitals, nursing homes and clinics must have proper parking space and side margins. 
 
 "NMC has made it clear that it would not renew licences unless these norms are met. How can the owners create side margin if the building is an old one and there is another building adjacent to the hospital? It is practically impossible to comply with such norms. We want NMC to relax the conditions," said Sonawnis.
 
 A delegation of the IMA, Nashik had a meeting with NMC officials to persuade them to relax the norms. But apparently, the civic body did not bend and did not pay heed to the requests of IMA, Nashik. 
 
 "We will again organise a meeting the civic officials and make an effort to find a solution," he added.
 
 
