NEW DELHI: The   on Thursday emphatically ruled that there was no “reasonable suspicion” in the death of district judge B H Loya and slammed the petitioners seeking an independent probe for attempting to mislead the court while seeking to raise doubts over the judge’s demise. 

 The SC’s conclusion that Loya, who was hearing the   Sheikh fake encounter case in which   president   was an accused three years ago, died of a heart attack in December 2014 closes the highly politicised case and provides relief to Shah from insinuations that the probe was manipulated. 
 
 Within a month of Loya’s death, the new trial judge in Mumbai discharged Shah from the Sohrabuddin case. Three years later, on November 20, 2017, a magazine report alleged suspicious circumstances around Loya’s death, when he was trying the powerful BJP chief, and created an uproar which led to filing of the PILs. 
 
 The court, however, held that the conduct of the petitioners amounted to criminal contempt, and though it did not initiate proceedings – stating that credibility of judicial institutions lay in their moral authority – the bench minced no words in saying the courtroom should not be the stage for settling political scores. 
 
 A bench of Chief Justice   and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud said in its 114-page judgment, “We have come to the conclusion that there is absolutely no merit in the writ petitions... Documentary material on record indicates that death of judge Loya was due to natural causes. There is no ground for the court to hold that there was a reasonable suspicion about the cause or circumstances of death which would merit further inquiry.”
 
 Bringing down the curtain on a strenuous five month effort by petitioners, who vehemently and vociferously sought to create a cloud of suspicion over Judge Loya’s death on December 1, 2014, the SC bench not only rejected their claims but described the petition as a frontal attack on the judiciary through a spate of scurrilous allegations. 
 
 The counsel for the petitioners had questioned the testimony of judges who were with Loya when he was rushed to hospital. The SC examined every charge levelled by counsel Dushyant Dave, Indira Jaising, V Giri and  , scrutinised medical evidence, weighed statements of judicial officers who were with Loya when he suffered a heart attack in Nagpur, and concluded there was nothing suspicious about the death. Instead, it found the petitioners attempting to “misrepresent facts and mislead the court”. 
 
 The SC took the counsel to task for suggesting that two judges on the SC bench being from Bombay HC may have known the judicial officers who submitted statements in the Loya case, forgetting that the petitioners themselves had earlier initiated proceedings in the same HC where most judges could be presumed — going by the petitioners’ logic — to have known the dead judge. 
 
 The bench said PILs originally devised as a tool to provide succour to the downtrodden and voiceless, were now being brazenly used to seek publicity or settle business or political rivalries in the judicial arena. This, the SC said, ate into precious court time, which could have been utilised to dispense justice in other cases. 
 
 On the Loya case PILs, the SC said the real motive of the petitioners was to “bring the judiciary into disrepute”. Referring to the petitioners’ approach of levelling baseless charges against judicial officers and HC judges, the SC said this was nothing but “a veiled attempt to launch a frontal attack on the independence of judiciary and to dilute the credibility of judicial institutions”. “Conduct of the petitioners and intervenors scandalises the process of the court and prima facie constitutes criminal contempt,” the bench said but refrained from initiating criminal contempt proceedings. “The judiciary must continue to perform its duty even if it is not palatable to some. The strength of the judicial process lies not in the fear of a coercive law of contempt. The credibility of the judicial process is based on its moral authority. It is with that firm belief that we have not invoked the jurisdiction in contempt,” it said. 
 
 Justice Chandrachud said Loya and two judicial officers — S Kulkarni and S M Modak — travelled by train from Mumbai on November 29, 2014, reached Nagpur the next day, and stayed at Ravi Bhavan. The bench said all statements of judicial officers had a “ring of truth”. “By casting unfounded aspersions on the judicial officers who had accompanied judge Loya, the petitioners have revealed real motive of these proceedings which is to bring the judiciary into disrepute on the basis of scurrilous allegations,” the bench said. 
 
 After examining medical records, finding out how views of medical experts were “grossly misquoted” by petitioners, and how normal human conduct was put to suspicion on hindsight, the bench said, “We have come to a conclusion that there is absolutely no merit in the writ petitions. The conduct of the petitioners and the intervenors lacked bona fides and reveal a misuse of judicial process.”
 
