KOLKATA: The Calcutta High Court lawyers’ bodies are going to hold a general body meeting on Monday to decide the fate of their month-long cease-work. Several senior lawyers are in favour of ending the stir now, after Chief Justice of India Deepak Mishra’s request to withdraw it and Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad’s assurance to a delegation of high court lawyers that the issue of appointing judges would be expedited.
 
  
  
 
  president Uttam Majumdar termed the back-to-back meetings as very positive. “We will inform the general body on the outcome. A final decision will be taken by them,” he said. Bar Library Club president Jayanta Mitra, who along with Majumdar was part of the lawyers’ delegation, said, “Our grievances have been given a patient hearing at the top-most levels. As lawyers, I believe, this is the most we could have achieved. A decision to continue or end the cease-work rests with the general body. I will put forth my views before them.”   secretary Paritosh Sinha also dubbed the meetings in New Delhi as “fruitful”. “We will apprise our members of the details. A final decision will be taken by them,” he said.
 
 According to a senior lawyer who was part of these meetings, the CJI met the lawyers on Friday March 16 at 1:30 pm and their meeting continued well after 2 pm. “The CJI said the names of seven candidates which have come from the Centre with IB reports will be considered by the collegium soon. On the issue of appointment of the Chief Justice, he said the collegium had on January 10, 2018 recommended the appointment of Justice   as Chief Justice and that should happen soon,” asenior lawyer said. The CJI has also agreed to consider our request for representation of Calcutta High Court on the Bench of the  , according to a lawyer. “The Chief Justice earnestly requested the bar to withdraw the ceasework,” the lawyer added.
 
 This was followed by an hour-long meeting with Prasad. The minister told the delegation that the Centre had already forwarded seven recommendations of the Calcutta HC to the  . The next set of six recommendations sent on December 2017 by the HC, the minister said, are with the IB and will be forwarded once the IB feedbacks are received.
 
 
