PORVORIM: MLAs cutting across party lines on Wednesday unanimously voiced their anguish in the state legislative   over the impending closure of   operations in the state and said that this should not be allowed to happen. However, a proper solution eluded the MLAs with opinion divided on whether Goa’s mines should be auctioned or if mining should be continued through a mining corporation.

 Former chief minister and Congress MLA Pratapsingh Rane tabled a calling attention motion urging the government to file a review petition in the   on its recent order cancelling the renewal of the 88 mining leases.
 
 Responding to the calling attention motion, transport minister and interim leader of the House, Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar said that the state government would consider all options to protect Goa’s mining industry.
 
 “The state government will take all necessary steps to uphold the law and carry out its social responsibility to the best of its ability and capacity. Definitely we will take this issue very seriously to help the people of the mining area and the labourers,” Dhavalikar said.
 
 Dhavalikar said that to prevent revenue loss and to protect mining companies, iron ore dumps would be auctioned after March 15.
 
 The Madkai MGP legislator’s remarks did not convince either ruling or opposition MLAs.
 
 “The reply shows that the government is not serious on this issue. Please spell out all the options available with the state to ensure that mining continues within the ambit of the Supreme Court order,” Congress MLA from Navelim Luizinho Faleiro said.
 
 Curchorem   MLA Nilesh Cabral opposed the move to auction Goa’s mining leases and castigated the government for considering the auction route.
 
 “The MMDR Act was brought in 1957. After we got liberated in 1961, there was an Act passed in parliament in 1962 that all laws of Goa would remain in force till the laws were repealed,” he said.
 
 Laws made by the Portuguese still continue to be relevant today in Goa. All concessions that were granted during Portuguese rule were converted into leases,” Cabral said.
 
 Cabral’s stand did not find favour with   MLA Aleixo Reginald Lourenco, who warned the government of going against the spirit of the Apex Court’s ruling. “It is the ruling government’s responsibility to decide how the mining dependant families will be rehabilitated. We have to adhere with whatever the Supreme Court says. We can discuss how to accommodate the mining companies and the workers, but we cannot say no to auctioning because the Supreme Court is very clear,” Lourenco said.
 
 Opposition leader Chandrakant Kavlekar said that the government should make sure that mining didn’t come to a halt in the state. “This is not the time to blame someone. We need to be united and think how we can make sure that Goa’s mines don’t stop after March 15. The government must find some solution, must take legal opinion and take whatever path it wants, but mining cannot stop,” Kavlekar said
 
 
