BENGALURU:   and   of   are in circulation in Bengaluru and other places, and some candidates have submitted them at foreign varsities.
 
  
 TOI accessed photocopies of seven BSc (Nursing) marks cards and four provisional degree certificates from a whistleblower and sent two copies to the varsity for verification. Two days later, the university confirmed the marks cards were bogus as they didn’t match its ledger entries. “Copies of marks cards have not been issued by RGUHS,” the email sent by varsity deputy registrar   read.
 
 He said the marks card numbers and scores matched the original entries in the ledger, but their register numbers were different. “These marks were allotted to another student. Someone appears to have gained access to his marks card and changed the registration number,” Gudur said.
 
 
 
 
 The email contained photocopies of theledgers and documents, proving the marks cards in circulation were not genuine. The racketeers seemed to have reproduced the cards matching all the features — affixing signature of the registrar (evaluation), who is also acting as the vice-chancellor — and used different registration numbers and names.
 
 Sources suspect the marks cards could have been printed at the very centre where the varsity gets such documents printed, and saw the role of insiders in theincident. But vice-chancellor M K Ramesh denied the allegations. He said: “These are fake, and we do outsource printing. There is no evidence pointing to insider role. We’re confident someone from outside is doing this to tarnish our image or gain employment somewhere. They have used my signature on a marks card when I wasn’t even the registrar.”
 
 Ramesh conceded fake provisional degree certificates, too, were in circulation. “It has been brought to my notice that one such certificate was produced by a person applying abroad. We received a copy for verification through the embassy and found it bogus. There may be cases we aren’t aware of, as not everyone bothers to crosscheck,” he said.
 
 The racket comes four years after the varsity’s PG answer paper fraud, which saw insiders tampering with documents. TOI published a series of reports in 2014. Ramesh said the university will conduct an internal inquiry and seek legal opinion before filing a police complaint.
 
 
 
  
 
