SURAT: Surat Municipal Corporation ( ) is not willing to renew lease of land given by it to Experimental School 60 years ago on a token rent of one rupee per annum. 

 The SMC wants to sell the land to Sarvajanik Education Society Trust (SECT), which runs the school, at market rate. However, the SECT wants the lease to be renewed, and is not interested in purchasing the plot of land in its possession. 
 
 The land lease of the school expired in the year 2000 and had not been renewed since then. However, the SMC started to implement strictly the state’s new land disposal act from 2010. The SMC stopped accepting token rent from the SECT. The SECT was told either to pay rent as per the decision of the land disposal committee or vacate the land.
 
 SECT chairman C S Jariwala said, “We have been talking only about renewal of the lease. However, the SMC wants rent as per the market value of the 12,000 metre plot. We told them as a trust we can’t just pay up and needed complete information to arrive at a decision. We are willing to increase the lease amount but the SMC is demanding one time payment on the basis of market rate. This is not possible for an educational institution.” 
 
 Standing committee chairman Rajesh Desai told TOI: “When a new law is in force, how can one do things as per an old law? We have referred the issue to the standard valuation committee to arrive at a figure based on the market rate of the plot. The trust also needs to pay interest to us for the past 18 years. A decision on duration of lease will be taken later. Under no circumstances can we give this plot of land on lease for a token amount of one rupee now.” 
 
 The decision of standard valuation committee is expected within a fortnight. At present, the market rate for the plot of land to be leased could be around Rs 50 crore per annum. The SMC could approach other educational trusts to run the secondary school if the SECT refuses to settle old dues and agrees to new terms for land lease. 
 
 
