CHENNAI: This summer could turn to be one of the coolest in the last five years, say weathermen. The daytime temperature has remained below 38°C this month so far. With the possible setting of the southwest monsoon over the southern peninsula in the first week of June, cloud cover is likely to keep the temperature under control from thereon.

 
 The IMD has announced that conditions are ripe for the southwest (SW) monsoon to set in over the   around Wednesday. Regional meteorological centre deputy director general S B Thampi said, “The monsoon will theoretically set in over Thiruvananthapuram around June 1. In the following days it will cover the entire southern peninsula.”
 
  
  
 
 Interior districts of   get a greater share of rainfall during SW monsoon which lasts from June to September. The city gets 30% of its annual rainfall during SW monsoon. “Once the SW monsoon sets in, rainfall will be concentrated in interior districts of Tamil Nadu, covering Valparai, Coimbatore and surrounding regions,” Thampi said.
 
 During May, the city experiences an average maximum temperature of 37.1°C. So far, there has been only one day this month when the temperature rose beyond 37°C. The highest maximum temperature recorded last year during May was 42.6°C (on May 19, 2017) Weather blogger   said, “North westerly winds that arrive in the last week of May could cause the day temperature to peak. If a cyclonic circulation or a depression forms over the  , it could take away the prevailing easterly winds that are responsible for keeping the temperature under check.” The maximum and minimum temperatures on Sunday are likely to be around 37°C and 28°C, with the likelihood of a cloudy sky.
 
 In the 24 hours until 8.30am on Saturday, Sivaganga (Sivaganga district) received 9cm rainfall, Colachel (Kanyakumari) 7cm, Venbavur (Perambalur), Manamadurai (Sivaganga), Mayanur (Karur) and Kanyakumari (Kanyakumari district) 5cm each, Satankulam (Thoothukudi) and Ariyalur (Ariyalur district) 4cm each.
 
 
