The latest episode of   starts with   banging the door of the pump house, in which she is trapped, as she sees a woman who is banging her head on the wall. Meanwhile, Raman, Romi, and   look for Ishita but fail to locate her. Later, Ishita calls out to   and she stares at her. Soon,   finds out from the watchman that Ishita has not left the society building. 

 Meanwhile, Ishita starts speaking to Bhavna and offers her help as she knows that she has escaped from the asylum. But Bhavna keeps whispering to someone and when Ishita asks her whom she is talking to, she says that she is speaking to Sonakshi. Ishita gets shocked and later Bhavna tells her that Sonakshi’s spirit will destroy Ishita as she took away her house and her life. Then, Bhavna attacks Ishita by strangling her and on the other side, Raman and Romi hear Ishita screaming. They break the door and find Ishita in a panicked state. Ishita tells everyone that   is back and that Bhavna wants to kill her. Raman promises Ishita that he will find Bhavna. 
 
 In the next scene,   meets the business heads and requests them to give him few more days as his employee is on a maternity leave. The heads are not convinced with his plan and soon Mani says that Adi cannot make a good business plan. Mani tells Adi to take Aaliya's help as she is an expert in it. Adi feels irritated by the suggestion and soon Aaliya walks in and offers him help. Soon, he loses his calm and lashes out at her.
 
 Ishita and Raman file a complaint at the police station and then go home to find the entire Bhalla family preparing for Baisakhi. The duo takes over the preparation and Simmi notices Ishita’s weird behavior.
 
 Ishita starts serving dinner to the family and sees Adi and Aaliya walk in. Later, Ishita gets busy in the kitchen as Raman tells her why she has taken over the entire work as she is still recovering from the shock. Ishita says that she is a mother of her kids and needs to do it for them. Raman hugs her and then he gets a call from the cops asking him to come over. Ishita gets upset and starts blaming herself for causing trouble. Raman decides not to go to the police station and puts Ishita to sleep. He thinks that he cannot let Ishita suffer and plans to put an end to all of the problems.
 
