

 Junglee Pictures and Dharma Productions’ 'Raazi', directed by   is set during the Indo-Pak War of 1971. This is a story of a Kashmiri woman, who is sent to Pakistan as a spy by the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), before the war.
 
 Great minds come together to make great things. 'Raazi’s soundtrack is a collaboration between true artistes of the musical field. This album marks the coming together of the legendary Gulzar with S-E-L (Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy) once again. They first collaborated around 19 years ago with 'Rockford' (1999), which was followed by 'Bunty Aur Babli' (2005), 'Jhoom Barabar Jhoom' (2007), 'Kill Dill' (2014) and the recent 'Mirzya' (2016). Just like these movies, 'Raazi' too has a melange of stellar music and splendid lyrics.
 
 The album has four songs and while the list may be short it’s definitely one to be heard on the loop. The tracks are able to touch an emotional chord with the listener. Arijit Singh’s rendition of ' ' brings out strong feelings of patriotism in the most understated manner. One of the highlights of this inspirational song is the lyrics. The words are written in such a way that they can be sung by anyone, irrespective of the country they live in. The song talks about one’s love for the country but it does so without alluding to the concept of borders. It’s one of the most mature tracks to come out of Bollywood in recent times. 'Ae Watan' debuts the Top 20 Mirchi Music Charts this week. 
 
 S-E-L deserves praise for creating a pure melody, during a time when both the industry and listeners are obsessed with electronic dance music trends. 
 The female version of the track 'Ae Watan', rendered by Sunidhi Chauhan has a different soundscape with a prominent touch of Hindustani classical and uses the rabab /mandolin and percussion instruments. The backing vocals and chorus by young singers adds a new layer to it too.
 
  is a song that every young bride will identify with. This wistful bidaai track with poignant lyrics begins with a Kashmiri couplet by Vibha Saraf and is then taken over beautifully by Harshdeep Kaur and Shankar Mahadevan. That Shankar is a fabulous singer first and a composer later, rings true when you listen to his powerful rendition. Gulzar and S-E-L’s ability to create authentic sounds and nuances that are true to a particular region and its culture, is proved once more with this track. Dilbaro brings out unique flavours of the valley.
 
 Composers and lyricists are known to save the best for the title track and the same goes for Raazi, which sees some brilliant singing by Arijit. He has you right from the first note of the alaap. And then Gulzar saab’s magic surpasses everything. The sounds of bouzouki/mandolin by Tapas Roy and esraj by Arshad Khan, adds to the beauty of the track. Mani Mahadevan, Ravi Mishra and Arshad Mohammed’s chorus is commendable.
 
 The 18 minute-long soundtrack of Raazi, is a medley of tunes and is a must for music lovers and Gulzar fans.
 
 
