Nagpur: The sixth edition of the three-day   exhibition-cum-sale will be inaugurated at Mure Memorial Hospital by Vasant Futane, a Beejotsav group member and progressive organic farmer, at 10am on Friday.

 The fair this year will have deliberations on various topics related to organic and ecological farming everyday between 10am and 12 noon which will be followed by exhibition-cum-sale till 10pm of various indigenous seeds, organic farm produce, processed organic products, urban waste management and sustainable lifestyle products, animal produces, khaddar etc.
 
 Prajakta Atul, a Beejotsav member, told TOI that this year 56 organic rural and urban farmers would be exhibiting their ecologically safe products. The new attractions this year include a stall of animal stock by two pastoral communities — Rawadi and Bharwad — who will be showcasing their cows, sheep, buffaloes. “These communities around Nagpur are supplying 1.25 lakh litres of milk to Haldiram alone. They are doing a great job of conservation of the local breeds unknowingly. Since they keep moving from place to place, they don’t burden the ecosystem by grazing at one place,” said Prajakta.
 
 There will be a separate display of various documentaries throughout the day on nature conservation, safe food cultivation practises. Forest produce like mahua, honey, amla etc will also be on sale.
 
 There will also be stalls of delicious organic food. Visitors will also be able to treat themselves to music, theatre and instrument playing.
 
 The Schedule
 
 April 6
 
 10am: Inauguration and presentation of survey by various farm organizations from Wardha district by Vasant Futane
 
 10.30am: Amitabh Pawade to talk on ‘Ill effects of GM cotton’
 
 11.30am: Sriniwas Khandewale to speak on ‘Economy behind organic farming’
 
 April 7
 
 10am: Sanjay Patil to talk on conservation of indigenous seeds
 
 11am: Ganesh Birajdar to speak on ‘Challenged in adopting organic farming’
 
 April 8
 
 10am: Ulhas Jajoo to speak on ‘Chemical pesticides and related health issues’
 
 10.45am: Tarak Kate to talk on ‘Can organic farming suffice country’s food needs’
 
 12.15pm: Avil Borkar on ‘Seed and biodiversity regulation’
 
 
