GURUGRAM: The city is going to get completely covered and   waste transfer centres. According to the officials at Ecogreen Energy Pvt Ltd, the government-appointed agency for waste management in Gurugram, these centres will look like a big shed covered from all four sides with a ramp to facilitate waste pick-up trucks.

 “The centre would be completely eco-friendly, a little elevated from the ground. The smaller vehicles will go inside and dump the garbage right on to the ramp where it will then be segregated into wet and dry waste,” said an Ecogreen official. He added that the segregated waste will be reduced using a compactor and then loaded into different vehicles inside the centre to be sent off to the waste treatment plant.
 
 According to officials, the new centres will ensure that garbage is not littered around. They also said the centres also will not emanate stench. 
 
 This eco-friendly waste transfer centre is inspired from the Gwalior model.
 
 The idea is not to let the waste be dumped on the ground as it could cause soil degradation. These waste transfer centres also address the concerns of possible stench, eyesores and air pollution in the neighbouring areas.
 
 The work on three such waste transfer centres have already started and these will be functional till next month.
 
 In all, 15 such waste transfer centres have been proposed to be built in different areas of the city and will serve as nodal points for waste management system. However, land for only 11 waste transfer centres have been identified yet.
 
 Chief minister   laid down the foundation stones of these 11 centres in December last year. 
 
 The agency, however, soon landed in controversy when the residents of DLF phase 1 protested against the waste transfer centre coming up in their residential neighbourhood, fearing that it would cause them eye sores and stench. They also objected to the centre being built on forest land. Currently, three cases are in the   ( ) in the same regard.
 
 The waste transfer centres are temporary centres where the garbage collected from the residential and commercial areas is taken and stored temporarily until it is sent to   waste plant.
 
 
