Gurugram: The nightmare for women in   shows no signs of abating. On Monday, a BA 2nd year student was allegedly abducted and gang-raped by two while she was returning from college in  . The only small mercies - this time, there was a survivor, and for once, an embarrassed police force had managed to nab one of the two accused at the time this report went to press.

 The survivor claimed she was forcibly picked up by the accused in car near Khandewala mor in broad daylight at around 2pm, while she was returning home from Government College in   near Hailey Mandi. They drove into a forested area near road and raped her inside the car. They then dumped in the nude on the roadside near   village. They later agreed to give back her clothes when she begged of them, but threatened to kill her if she disclosed their identities. 
 
 The girl, though, managed to muster courage and after three days, confided of her ordeal to her father. On Thursday, she accompanied her father to   police station to register her complaint, based on which an FIR under sections 376D (gang rape), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of IPC was lodged against two youths, who are allegedly residents of   village.
 
 "I pleaded with them to be spared, but they threatened that not only would they kill me, but before that, they would call 20 more men to torture me further. They then took turns to rape me for about two hours, and then threw me out naked. They only returned my clothes after I made repeated pleas with them. I gathered myself and reached home in a bus, but for two days, I was too traumatised to speak about it. Only today [Thursday] did I muster courage to speak up," she said in her complaint.
 
 Police offered to have her medical examination done, but she refused. She was later produced in a city court where he statement was recorded under Section 164 of CrPC. She repeated her claims and named one of the accused, who was previously known to her. Cops immediately reached   village and arrested one   alias Poni.
 
 "The matter is being probed on top priority. We have arrested one of the accused. The survivor has said she was unable to identify the car or note its number. We are questioning Pawan, based on which we hope to nab the second perpetrator and recover the car," said Ashok Bakshi, DCP (south). 
 
 
