LUDHIANA: With the onset of summer across the northern region, the number of cases related to digestive problems, decrease of appetite, repeated bouts of diarrhoea, indigestion, and dehydration have increased two to three times. City-based specialist doctors say there has been a manifold increase in health-related problems among city residents. One of the major causes is the bad eating habits of people, as they are still continuing with the same food consumption patterns that they followed in winter.

 As fried food contains high oil content, it induces thirst and is difficult to digest, causing excessive bloating, discomfort, and intolerance to heat. These were the major concerns discussed by a specific group of specialist doctors during a special seminar organized at a city hospital to make residents aware about health-related challenges in the peak of summer season.
 
 Gastroentologist Dr   said: “As the hot weather makes our digestive system prone to indigestion, it is best to avoid eating in large quantities. One should prefer bulky foods which satisfy hunger, and are easily digested like green vegetables and fresh fruits. To improve digestion and replenish vital electrolytes, one should use essential herbs and spices like coriander, fennel, cilantro, and cumin in the summer diet, which will help keep our gastro-intestinal system working at its best pace.”
 
 Dr  , another gastroentologist, said: “High temperature allows bacteria to spoil food faster, if isn’t stored in a cold place. It may lead to bacterial overgrowth, food poisoning, vomiting, and other digestive problems. Salad dressings, ketchups, jams, and semi-pickled foods stored at room temperature deteriorate rapidly. They must be kept in the refrigerator to avoid infections and food poisoning. Perishable foods should not be kept at room temperature for longer than a few hours.”
 
 Skin specialist Dr   said: “People should start consuming more water now as less consumption of water can lead to dehydration. They should also take care of their skin by wearing cool cotton clothes, as the rise in temperatures can lead to itching or boils in the skin. Residents should always use water filters to prevent the occurence of water-borne diseases like diarrhoea and dysentry.”
 
 
