MUMBAI: While it was expected that the likes of India mainstays   and Ajinkya Rahane would attract maximum attention during the auctions for the inaugural Mumbai Twenty20 League on Saturday evening, teams had studied the performances of the city’s promising short-format players minutely, as was evident from the fervent bidding that took place for players like   (₹5 lakh), Shivam Dubey (₹ 5 lakh), Shashank Singh (₹5 lakh), Eknath Kerkar (₹4 lakh), Sagar Trivedi (₹3.4 lakh),   (₹3.4 lakh), Hardik Tamore (₹3.4 lakh) and Yashasvi Jaiswal (₹3 lakh).

 
 Bista, Dubey and Singh in fact, had to be allotted teams via draw of lots after there was a stalemate over their bids. While there was a five-way tie for Bista, an attacking batsman at the top of the order, four teams expressed interest in availing the services of Dubey and Singh respectively.
 
 Opener Prithvi Shaw, meanwhile, who will be available only for the last three days of the competition, was bought by Mumbai North for Rs 2.8 lakh. The experienced Dhawal Kulkarni, who was listed amongst the icons, but is available only by March 17, went for Rs 1.5 lakh to Mumbai North East, after teams had exhausted their icon player buys.
 
 Mumbai Ranji Trophy captain Aditya Tare, who was listed amongst the icons, is injured and will take at least two-three weeks to recover. As a result, he will miss the competition. Fast bowler,   will be on India duty while the tournament will be on and was not bought by any team. Even Rohit Sharma, will at best, be able to feature in a couple of games as he will be available only after the completion of the tri-series in Sri Lanka.
 
 “I am happy at the interest teams showed in me,” Dubey told TOI, after learning that he was one of the much sought-after players. “It is an important tournament that will help us showcase our skills to a wider audience. If we succeed, we could make it to IPL teams in the future,” added the 24-year-old allrounder, who was a regular feature in Mumbai’s teams that competed in the Vijay Hazare and Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 trophies recently.
 
 He was in brilliant form for institutional side BPCL, who lost to Reliance 1 in the final of the DY Patil T20 Cup on Thursday.
 
 Dubey will play for Mumbai South Central that will be coached by Vinod Raghavan and will have the charismatic Vinod Kambli as mentor. “While I have learned a lot from Raghavan Sir, I will be getting a chance to interact with Kambli Sir for the first time. It will be a huge learning experience for me,” he said.
 
 
