BHOPAL: Bumper tomato yield and the resultant glut led to its price plummeting to Rs 1 kg from Rs 5 in a couple of days in wholesale market, hitting   hard for the third time in three years in a row. Unable to recover even the production cost, distressed farmers are dumping the produce in fields and on roads in Sehore, Narsinghpur and Raisen districts. 

 Market reports disclosed price of tomato crashed to Re 1 and even 50 paisa per kg in some districts forcing farmers to seek government intervention. Reports from Sehore - the home district of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Narsinghpur and Raisen- reveal price variation is hitting farmers hard.
 
 In Budhni (Sehore) and   (Narsinghpur) dumping of tomato on the roadside has become a common sight. Tomato growers said there was a glut in the market as more farmers took to its cultivation, . Moreover, a slump in demand in neighbouring states also contributed to the crash in price. Farmers in more than a 12-13 districts cultivated tomato on a large scale, resulting in lesser demand for tomatoes, they said.
 
 "In August-September last year, farmers sold tomatoes for as high as Rs 50 to Rs 70 per kg due to high demand. Now, the price has crashed to 50 to 60 paisa a kg in the wholesale market, which is less than the production cost. But in retail, the crop is being sold for Rs 10 per kg. Farmers are compelled to dump tomatoes on roadside as a mark of protest," said a farmer of Gadarwara.
 
 In Nasarullaganj and   - the two main areas under the assembly constituency of the chief minister- farmers are not even able to recover transportation cost.  , a farmer from Shahganj claimed in a field of two acre, he spent Rs 10,000 on seeds, Rs 9,000 on pesticides, Rs 3,000 on irrigation and Rs 50,000 on labour. But, could not recover the cost for which he had drawn a bank loan of Rs 5 lakh. Minister of state for agriculture   said those who are dumping tomatoes on roadside are not farmers, but protesters. Farmers never dump their hard-earned produce. Farmers know well the price fluctuation. Otherwise they would not have opted for tomato crop, the minister said.
 
 "The demonstrations are planned and farmers are not involved in dumping of their produce. Price fluctuation is a normal process. At times, farmers had earned Rs 50 per kg, when there was a demand. Now, they have to sell it at a lesser margin. Had farmers not earned benefit last year, they would not have opted for the same crop this year," Patidar told TOI. 
 
 
