Chennai: Last December, Chennai had its first tryst with speed dating. Young men and women, who had opened their minds and wallets to the idea of spending six minutes each with a dozen members of the opposite sex in the hope of finding a partner, met up at a popular restobar. Come August, another speed dating event will be held in the city. But, this time round, it is meant for people looking for a non-sexual relationship.

 The event is part of the first Chennai Asexuality Festival being organised by Indian Aces. With workshops, peer counselling and speed dating, it helps create more awareness, and bring together members of the asexual community. "We have held it in Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru. Since people had come down from Chennai for the Bengaluru event, we thought of organising one in the city," says Pragati Singh, founder, Indian Aces.
 
 In the past decade, Chennai has shed its ‘conservative’ tag, opening up to more conversations about sex and  . Whether it’s conducting pride marches or hosting swayamvarams for the elderly — traditional norms have been challenged, mental barriers broken and tolerance levels upped.
 
 In 2009, members of the LGBT community flaunted the various hues of their sexual identities at the first Chennai Rainbow Pride March. A few years later, Natubhai Patel of Gujarat brought the ‘Senior Citizens’ Live-In Relationships Sammelan’ to the city so that the elderly could test the waters before taking the plunge, recognising the fact that seniors have their psychological as well as physical needs. Last year saw the advent of speed dating and the ‘Singles Social’, a supper club for people to eat, meet, and mingle. And now, with the upcoming Asexuality Festival, the boundaries are being pushed further. "We have screened films on both sexuality and asexuality at ‘Reel Desires: Chennai International Queer Film Festival’ for the past two years," says L Ramakrishnan of SAATHII, adding it is a reflection of what’s happening globally, where there is an increased awareness of gender diversity.
 
 That’s something sexologist Dr Narayana Reddy agrees with. "People are realising that they have a right to the way they want to live – whether it’s following their sexual orientation or exploring polyamory or having live-in relationships," says sexologist Dr Narayana Reddy, adding the winds of change are being ushered in by many organisations such as the World Association for Sexual Health, which are fighting for sexual health rights.
 
 Software engineers Naresh* and Nanditha*, for instance, have been in a live-in relationship for the past two years. "Our parents are aware of it and are supportive. We want to give it a couple of years more before we decide whether we get married or not," says Nanditha.
 
 In Chennai, a cosmopolitan society, better healthcare and increased life expectancy is also driving the change, feel experts. "With longer life spans there are more elderly people around who have lost their spouses and are looking for partners and media is creating awareness about different sexual orientations," says Reddy, adding that it’s brought about a sea change in people’s attitudes. "People are realising that their personal space is more important than social norms," he says.
 
 The sammelan organised by Patel in 2015, for instance, was attended by 65 men and 10 women. "Their children were aware that their parents are interested in live-in relationships and were supportive of it," says Patel.
 
 Psychiatrist Dr N Rangarajan says healthcare professionals too have changed their approach. "When you treat people for depression, some pills can make the patient lose their libido. But most wouldn’t talk about it and most doctors would ignore it as it becomes one more confusing aspect of the case," he says, adding that doctors have started asking patients about the effects of these medicines on their sexuality. "It is an important aspect of the treatment process. If it’s interfering with their sex life we should be aware of it and change the medication. Today, more people are also bothered about their sexual needs and approach professionals about difficulties they face."
 
 (*Names changed on request)
 
 
