

 The American government’s treasury department maintains a monitoring list of exchange rate policies of their country’s big trading partners that fall short of meeting certain criteria laid down by their Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015, which came into force in 2016. This act requires it’s treasury to submit a biannual report on the macroeconomic and currency exchange rate policies of its top trading partners to the country’s parliament. In the recent report the treasury put India in the monitoring list. Apart from India, the recent monitoring list also includes China, Japan, South Korea, Germany and  .
 
 
 
 The 2015 act has specified three criteria that have to be fulfilled simultaneously to identify currency manipulator countries among the US’s large trading partners. Firstly, there has to be more than $20 billion bilateral trade surplus with the US (the country’s exports to the US has to be at least $20 billion more than its imports). 
  
  
  
 Secondly, the current account surplus (trade surplus, net income from foreign investment and net cash transfers) has to be at least 3% of its GDP. The last criteria states that a country’s net purchases of foreign currency conducted over a 12-month period are at least 2% of its GDP. Any country that fulfils at least two of these three criteria are put in the monitoring list. In India’s case, the first and third criteria are fulfilled. Once included in the list the country will remain there for at least two consecutive reports.
 
 
 
 In this context currency manipulation typically means a country is artificially keeping its currency’s exchange rate lower when compared to the American dollar. A lower exchange rate will mean its products will become cheaper while American exports to the country will become expensive, which will further increase the trade gap and harm American companies. There is no immediate consequence even if a country is declared a currency manipulator. Once a country fulfils every criteria, the US treasury is supposed to resolve the problem through one-year negotiation. If the negotiations fail then the US government could take retaliatory steps that include sanctions and involving the  .
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 Prior to the 2015 Act, currency manipulators were identified by the conditions of Omnibus Foreign Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988. In 1988, US designated South Korea and   currency manipulators. The declaration initiated bilateral negotiations, after which both agreed to reform their exchange rate management, let their currency appreciate and got their names removed from the list. From 1992-1994 ,China was labelled a manipulator. The US agreed to resolve its dispute through   in 1994 and China was removed from the list. Since 1994 no country has been declared currency manipulator.
 
 
