BENGALURU: Three workers died of asphyxiation inside a sewage treatment plant (STP) of an apartment complex at  , HSR Layout II Sector, southeast Bengaluru, on Sunday. 

 Bandepalya police identified the dead men as  , 40; Srinivas, 55, (both from Somasundara Palya); and  , 38, from Kaikondanahalli. Civic officials confirmed that though the three were not manual scavengers by profession, the work they had been tasked with at ND Sepal Apartment was that of manual scavengers.
 
  Around 11.50am, a tenant of a flat next to the two sewage treatment plants of the apartment made a call to the fire control room. "There was trouble near the treatment plants, and I could hear labourers screaming. I rang up immediately," said the resident. Authorities were trying to figure out how the tragedy had unveiled. The residents refused to speak to officials, cops or the media about the incident. 
 
 
 
 
 Police said Kumar, the manager at the apartment, told them that Narayana Swamy worked as maintenance staff at the apartment for three-and-a-halfyears and had taken the responsibility for maintaining the treatment plants for a monthly price of Rs 21,000.
 
 “There were two treatment plants on the apartment premises. The trio had cleaned the first, and were found dead in the second plant before they could start work,” Basavanna C, chief fire officer, said.
 
 Basavanna said the fire brigade rescue team rushed to the spot within minutes of receiving the call. “We found all three dead. We found the body of Mahadeva Gowda first and those of Srinivas and Narayana Swamy later,” he said. Another fire brigade official said one of their fire personnel fainted due to toxic air in the plant during the operation and was given first aid. He said the treatment plant — 8ft deep, 12ft long and 12ft wide — had no ventilation and a machine could have been used to clean it and save the lives.
 
 “We will find out who is responsible for the maintenance of the apartment and take action against the owner of the apartment or the association of the apartment owners,” T Suneel Kumar, city police commissioner, said. MB Boralingaiah, DCP (southeast), said police have registered a case of death due to negligence under the provision of IPC Section 304(a) against the Residents’ Association of ND Sepal Apartment.
 
 “They were labourers hired for cleaning the treatment plant. We will write to the  ,” said V N Veerabhadraswamy, joint commissioner, Bommanahalli zone.
 
 “We learnt that the trio had cleaned those plants earlier too,” mayor R Sampath Raj said after speaking to the kin of the deceased at St John’s Medical College Hospital where their bodies had been brought. Bengaluru development minister KJ George, who visited the spot, announced a Rs 5-lakh compensation by BBMP to the kin of each victim.
 
 Mayor Raj said Mahadev and Srinivas have residential sites in their name and the BBMP will sanction Rs 4 lakh to their families to build houses.
 
