NEW DELHI: Ahead of a   of the   convened to discuss the demand for   for Delhi, the AAP government has once again put chief secretary   in the line of fire. 

 A joint statement issued on Friday by the Delhi assembly committees’   – Saurabh Bharadwaj, Rakhi Birla, Sanjeev Jha, Madan Lal and   — alleged that Prakash was trying to “threaten the assembly   and is asking them to avoid question hour during the three-day session scheduled to take place on June 6, 7 and 8.” The last day for submitting questions for question hour is May 25. The statement said the “CS interference is illegal.”
 
 The CS was under attack in the budget session of the assembly over “incomplete” answers to several questions related to different departments of the government. “It caused a huge embarrassment to the bureaucrats because they gave incomplete answers to several questions. Due to the previous embarrassment, the CS does not want the question hour in the special session,” alleged Bharadwaj. 
 
 The names of the officials who have been allegedly contacted by the CS was not disclosed to protect their identity.
 
 The CS was further accused in the joint statement of “pressuring the law department to extract a wrongful opinion on this issue, in which neither the department nor the chief secretary have any locus to either seek or give an opinion.” 
 
 The AAP MLAs alleged that the CS is behaving as a “political agent” and appears to be furthering the agenda of the LG to undermine the assembly.
 
 The MLAs will now write to the Speaker on the issue and also raise it during the session. They said rules and laws make the legislature supreme and keep it completely independent of the executive. “It is difficult to comprehend that any bureaucrat who has been appointed CS could be ignorant of the rules and laws,” the statement said.
 
 “So far as question hour is concerned, it is the Speaker alone who decides whether it will be taken up during a particular session or not. The CS has no locus, legal or otherwise, to even pose a query in this regard,” the statement said.
 
 The CS could not be contacted for his version.
 
 
