MYSURU: Troubles for the BJP in   constituency only appear to be mounting, with supporters of state  , who was denied the ticket to contest from the segment, taking out a bike rally, urging voters to opt for ‘None Of The Above ( )’. Vijayendra, who is the son of BJP state president BS Yeddyurappa, was expected to be fielded by the saffron party against chief minister Siddaramaiah’s son  . However, the decision was reversed in the last minute, leading to divisions emerging within the party ranks in the high-profile constituency. 

 Expressing their anger with the party leadership, Vijaynedra’s supporters took out a rally from T Narasipura to Varuna. Tagaduru and Madahalli were among the villages Vijayendra’s followers passed along the way. The BJP has fielded Thotadappa   from Varuna in lieu of Vijayendra.
 
 However, the bike rally has not gone down too well with the election officials, who captured it on camera. The officials have lodged a police complaint against those who participated in the rally. They have been charged under IPC Section 171 G and 127 of the Representation of The People Act, for disturbing the election process.
 
 The bike rally by Vijayendra supporters comes a day after they disrupted an election meeting convened by Basavaraju at T Narasipura. Around 15 of Vijayendra’s supporters, who interrupted the meeting, asked why Basavaraju had not refused the party ticket, which would have forced the BJP top brass to reconsider its decision. BJP’s central observers and other important leaders were in attendance at the meeting.
 
 Basavaraju said that the meeting had been convened to chalk out the party’s tour programme, but it had been cut short. “The youngsters insisted that I should have refused the party ticket,” he told TOI.
 
 Basavaraju, however, voiced suspicions over whether those barged into the election meeting were BJP workers. “Activists of our party will not indulge in such acts. Since the day I launched my campaign, I have faced no hostility from the people,” he said.
 
 The BJP candidate from Varuna, however, clarified that he would not discuss the issue with Yeddyurappa, whom he was meeting on Tuesday. “The party leaders are aware of the situation on the ground,” he said.
 
 Basavaraju admitted to having met Vijayendra, and added that he had also asked Yeddyurappa to campaign for him in Varuna.
 
 
