CHENNAI:The sluggish pace of renewal of   membership has come as a huge embarrassment to the ruling   led by its coordinator O Panneerselvam and co-coordinator   K Palaniswami. Despite extending the deadline, only 30 lakh cadres have renewed their memberships until now.

 Against this backdrop, the leaders on Monday called for a meeting of district secretaries and headquarters office-bearers to rev up the membership drive. “Palaniswami spoke at length about the imperative need for functionaries to expedite the exercise, undertaken once in five years. He said it must be done before the next meeting,” said a district secretary, seeking anonymity. Of the seven lakh forms sold (each form for enrolment of 25 members), the AIADMK headquarters received only 1.18 lakh forms so far, indicating a lack of dynamic leadership, admitted partymen. Former chief minister J   had boasted that AIADMK comprised 1.5 crore cadres.
 
 The turmoil in the ruling camp with splits and in-fighting after the death of Jayalalithaa, had taken a toll on the party. Despite completing one year of its term, the AIADMK, which lacks charismatic leadership, is struggling to keep its flock together. Panneerselvam too took a strong view during the Monday meeting, exhorting functionaries to work harder to reach membership targets. Party leaders say enrolment of cadres remained crucial since the election commission is yet to decide on the amended bylaws of the party, which did away with the post of general secretary.
 
 Dissident leader T T V Dhinakaran, who now heads a new outfit   and ousted leader   challenged the amended bylaws in the Delhi high court and prayed for elections to be held to the post of general secretary. The original bylaws mandate that the party cadres should elect the general secretary.
 
 Palaniswami also made strong observations about Dhinakaran and his coterie in the wake of huge rallies being organized by the dissident leader in the districts. His Theni rally last week was also discussed, party insiders said. “Recalling the attempts by TTV to topple his government which was successfully foiled by him last year, Palaniswami referred to it as ‘illusionary’. Our party, with as many MLAs and MPs, can easily take him on, he said. The district units were directed to organise public meetings,” a senior leader said. Deputy coordinator   wondered why the ministers were not joining issue with TTV. Palaniswami listed out his achievements like installing the portrait of Jayalalithaa in the state assembly.
 
