CHENNAI: A team of eight officials from Tamil Nadu visited two orphanages in   following allegations that the homes had 48 children who were trafficked from here.

 On April 4, a district sessions court in   had directed Jose Maveli, the proprietor of Janaseva Sisubhavan, to transfer 104 children he housed from other states, after he failed to furnish documents on their antecedents. Both the homes run by him for boys and girls were sealed.
 
 The Child Welfare Committee in Ernakulam contacted child protection officers in Tamil Nadu to help repatriate the children, many of who had been staying in the orphanage for more than 10 years. “When we asked the proprietor how these children landed there, he said many were picked off the streets where they were found begging,” said M P Nirmala, chairperson of Tamil Nadu Commission for Protection of Child Rights ( ), who was among the eight-member team. Most of the children, she said, were from Tirupur and Coimbatore. Around 10 recalled having families in Chennai.
 
 When the team, comprising TNCPCR members, a DSP-level officer, two inspectors and constables, visited the orphanage last Thursday, it was told that seven boys were away on vacation with their families who had left them in the home as they were too poor to take care of them. “Four of them had already been transferred to a government home in Coimbatore,” said Nirmala. TNCPCR is now coordinating with child protection units in various districts in Tamil Nadu to verify the children’s addresses and phone numbers provided by the orphanage.
 
 In January 2017, Change-India, an advocacy group in Chennai, had investigated the home following allegations that some of the children were trafficked from Tamil Nadu. In a report submitted to the Tamil Nadu and Kerala governments last year, the organisation alleged that besides illegally procuring children, Janaseva Sisubhavan also misappropriated funds in the guise of charity. The institution had a total of 165 children.
 
 Narayanan A of Change-India said the Tamil Nadu government should focus on rehabilitating the children before the commencement of the academic year. “All the children have studied in Malayalam-medium schools. They should put them in registered homes that are close to such schools in Tamil Nadu while they take efforts to track their parents and ensure reunion wherever possible,” he said.
 
 
