Nagpur: While the chancellor’s office continues to hold the announcements for Mumbai and Solapur universities’ vice-chancellor posts, Nagpur University (NU) circles are abuzz with speculation about the fate of five city-based candidates, who have emerged as front runners for the highest office.

 Pro-VC Pramod Yeole, Women’s College principal Mrunalini Fadnavis, NU geology department professor Pradeep Kondal and ex-VC Vilas Sapkal interacted with governor Ch Vidyasagar Rao, who is also the chancellor of state universities, over the last two weeks. 
 
 Besides these four, IIIT professor from Jabalpur Pravin Kondekar too has Nagpur links. Kondekar worked with Ramdeobaba Engineering College from 1989 to 2002 and is eyeing Mumbai. The interactions for Mumbai University (MU) were held on April 19 while for Solapur University (SU) on April 21. 
 
 In the last decade, Nagpur has produced several vice-chancellors for the entire state with seven academicians from here occupying the post at one time. During Sapkal’s tenure as NU VC, Rajan Welukar (Mumbai), Vijay Pandharipande (Aurangabad), Raju Mankar (Lonere), Sudhir Meshram (Jalgaon), Murlidhar Chandekar (Amravati), Vijay Ainchwar (Gondwana) and Pankaj Chande at Kavikulguru Kalidas Sanskrit University (Ramtek) were his counterparts across the state.
 
 Currently, two former VCs and one former Pro-VC too are working under NU VC SP Kane. They are LIT director Raju Mankar, NU’s head of business management, Vinayak Deshpande and professor at LIT Maheshkumar Yenkie.
 
 Former VC of North Maharashtra University Sudhir Meshram too worked under Kane for some time as director of Rajiv Gandhi Biotechnology Centre at LIT campus.
 
 After MU VC interaction with chancellor on April 19, Yeole had appeared favourite for the post. But, the chancellor didn’t make the announcement the same evening, keeping the rumour mills grinding till Wednesday.
 
 “This is a never-seen-before situation. I haven’t seen the chancellor delaying the VC announcement for so long,” one of the MU candidates told TOI.
 
 The reasons being attributed for the delays too are revolving around the candidature of Yeole, whose recommendation is now subject to due diligence following complaints over his appointment as lecturer, associate professor and principal and changing of BA norms after exams, NU officials said.
 
 On the other hand, the inclusion of Mrunalini Fadnavis and Kondal in last five candidates for Solapur has cast a spell on the candidature of Yeole, who had applied for both universities. Yeole being Pro-VC should have been a frontrunner for Solapur too, the officials said.
 
 Interestingly, in case Fadnavis is named as SU VC, she would be the second woman after Shashikala Wanjari from Nagpur to occupy the top post of a public university in the state. Wanjari is currently the VC of SNDT Women’s University.
 
 “At the same time, if the complaints do influence the chancellor’s choice, then it would also bring a bad name to the city,” a top university officer said.
 
 
