MUMBAI: A crime branch team on the hunt for an accused in a   murder case on Wednesday ended up nabbing a 22-year-old who was trying to escape after molesting a 20-year-old woman in a lane opposite  . 

 The incident took place around 8pm when the victim, who is a marketing professional and the daughter of an army colonel, was jogging with a friend on a stretch that was empty on account of the Maharashtra bandh.
 
 In a complaint to the police, the woman said, "My friend and I were near   and since the roads were quite empty on Wednesday evening we decided to jog on the road. My friend was a little ahead of me when I noticed that a man who was walking in the opposite lane was staring at me. He then came closer and molested me."
 
 A Khar police officer said the victim immediately raised an alarm, alerting her friend who stopped a little ahead. 
 
 Both the women started to chase the molester and also alerted passersby to help catch the accused who has been identified as Rashid Mulla, who is a tailor by profession. 
 
 Luckily, the incident was witnessed by sub-inspector Harish Bansode and constables-Rajendra Pednekar, Fakira Shaikh and Ganesh Patil-who alerted their senior, inspector Mahesh Desai (crime branch unit-9). The team who was in the police Jeep stopped on hearing the woman screaming for help. 
 
 "They immediately left their vehicle and chased the accused who tried to board an auto rickshaw but since the driver refused to start his vehicle he started running again and hid behind a truck," a police officer said.
 
 After chasing for almost a kilometre, the four cops managed to nab Mulla who was found hiding behind a truck between Khar and Santacruz on SV Road. 
 
 The accused was handed over to the Khar police and has been sent to police custody. The accused has been booked under section 354 of the Indian Penal Code (outrage modesty)," said Khar police senior inspector Ramchandra Jadhav. Investigators have been trying to find out if Mulla has committed similar offences in the past.
 
 
