NEW DELHI: On what proved to be a very tough Day 3 at the  , India’s   ended at an even-par 72 to share the lead after the penultimate round of the USD 1.75 million tournament at the challenging   in New Delhi. 

 
 
 2015 winner   had a tough outing (75), but was all praise for Shubhankar. 
 
 
 
 Writing in his column in TOI, Lahiri wrote, “What Shubhankar Sharma is doing right now is incredible. It is often said that you should strike when the iron is hot. Riding on his form and momentum, he is on the verge of winning a third European Tour co-sanctioned title going into the final day of the Hero Indian Open.
 
 
 
 
 
 “I have had a short stretch like this when I won the Maybank Malaysian Open followed by the Hero Indian Open in a space of three weeks in 2015. When you are going through that patch, you really feel invincible. Your confidence level becomes so high that you start pulling off shots purely because of your self-belief,” he said. 
 
 The 21-year-old from Chandigarh sank five birdies, including one at the 18th, against three bogeys and a double bogey at the 17th, to share the lead with English golfer Matt Wallace, who carded two-under 70 to total 209.
 
 “It’s just a great place to be. Every professional golfer experiences that at least once, and hopefully multiple times, in his career,” said Lahiri about Shubhankar’s form. “However, the key is to extend it as much as possible. You can have a two-week run, or you can have a two-month run, or you can stretch it to a whole season. It is important to remain in the same mindset, your swing to remain in the same rhythm.
 
 It’s not easy to stay in that zone. And the best thing about Shubhankar is that he has been there for almost three-four months now. That is a great quality. I think Shubhankar, and I will also include his support team in this, has done a fantastic job. 
 
 “All he has to do now is keep his head down and play  . Short of parting water and hitting a recovery short from the middle of the lake, he can do anything right now. Whatever opportunity comes his way, he should embrace it, like he is doing this week,” he added. 
 
 Lahiri, however, was disappointed by his performance. 
 
 “Personally, I started out very optimistically on the third day. I went out there with a very good attitude. But it proved to be another day when I got beaten by a very demanding golf course,”he said. 
 
 
