BENGALURU: Multinationals seeking to provide creches for their staff in line with the law are approaching daycare centres by the dozen, with such enquiries doubling over the last six months.

 The Maternity Benefit (Amendment) Act, passed last year by Parliament, made it mandatory for establishments employing 50 or more people to provide creche facilities effective July 1, 2017.
 
 As a result, Bengaluru-based Klay, which runs a chain of daycare centres in offices and gated communities across the city, today has tie-ups with 200 companies, compared with just 50 in April 2017. The Banyan in Delhi said the number of enquiries had increased sharply in the past half a year. Medhaam, which has two facilities in Gurugram, said it was working with 10 firms, up from four before the amendment was passed.
 
 “Multinational and publicly traded companies are leading the way,” said Klay founder Priya Krishnan. 
 
 Banyan director Swati Jain said most corporates provide space and partner with a  , which provides staff and cares for the child. IBM has tied up with nine vendors, including Klay, Strawberry Fields, Medhaam, and Bubble Blue, in six cities to offer subsidised crèche facilities to all employees. SAP has a five-floor, free crèche facility on its campus in Bengaluru, and has tied up with vendors for other offices around the country, where the facilities are subsidised. ABB has an on-site creche at all its manufacturing locations and offices. Medhaam director Raghav Sharma said companies bore 30%-40% of the cost.
 
 Sheahan Verghese, founder of law firm TLA, said he had advised his clients to provide the facility even though the government had not issued detailed guidelines. 
 
 The government is said to be in talks with industry organisations to finalise the guidelines, which will address questions pertaining to the distance between a crèche and the office, facilities to be provided, and responsibility for the cost. In an RTI response late last year, the Haryana government said the cost had to be borne by the employer, but most companies said that was not feasible. “It will create financial difficulties for companies,” said Verghese.
 
 Only the Maharashtra government has set guidelines on distance, saying daycare centres should be no more than a kilometre away. The Act says the facility must be within a distance comfortable for employees to pick up, drop and nurse the child, and the mother should be allowed to visit the crèche four times a day.
 
 IBM’s partner facilities are within three kilometres of its offices.  , head of HR at SAP India, said many parents wanted the crèche near their house, rather than the office, which complicated the issue further. 
 
 In the absence of directions from the government, many companies are dragging their feet. Sharma of Medhaam said, when the Act was passed, corporates started actively looking for tie-ups with centres like his, but soon lost interest. 
 
