JORHAT: The stand-off between the student community and the state government over the status of   (AWU) intensified, with students from 176 colleges of nine upper   districts taking to the streets staging dharnas in front of their district headquarters on Wednesday. While the state government has announced an overhaul in the form and structure of AWU, the student community wants that AWU be declared a full-fledged university. 

 The students - from colleges under Dibrugarh University in Sivasagar, Tinsukia, Lakhimpur, Jorhat, Dibrugarh, Golaghat, Majuli, Dhemaji and Charaideo - submitted memoranda of demands at their respective district headquarters. One of the demands they have made is the appointment of a permanent vice-chancellor at AWU and, thereby, make it a full-fledged university. 
 
 "We demand that the government take steps to develop AWU. We want a permanent VC at AWU, upgrade of its infrastructure and appointment of adequate faculty. Our protest will continue until the government addresses our demands,"  , general secretary of the Dibrugarh University students' union, said.
 
 On Thursday, the Dibrugarh University Students' Association will form a human chain in front of their university as part of their protest. The Jorhat district unit of All Assam Students' Union (Aasu) will also stage protest across the district on Thursday. "Members of 24 regional units in Jorhat district will state protests at their respective regional headquarters on Thursday in support of our demands," Jul Khound, central executive member of Aasu, said. 
 
 Earlier in the day, education minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had tweeted, "I am not sure why the girls are on strike.We have not taken any decision so far.my only view is that one should not have a university and confer degrees without even creating the post of vice chancellor." Laying the onus on the previous Congress government, he tweeted, "Now if our government is examining the issue and trying to rectify the situation,why are you on strike? It is a problem which I got from the previous government and we will try to resolve it. It's as simple as that."
 
 On Monday, hundreds of AWU students went on a hunger strike in front of the Jorhat deputy commissioner's office on Monday in protest against the government's purported decision to convert the university into a technical institute. On Tuesday, the vice-chancellor in charge of the university, Kamal Malla Bujarbaruah, had said the government is initiating "major steps to reform the university".
 
 
