Visakhapatnam: The Indian Air Force (IAF) and   industry are keen to collaborate with the state government to set up a drone testing and certification centre in the state. 

 At a session on aerospace and   sector at the   on Sunday, discussions were held on the challenges of creating a manufacturing ecosystem and what role AP can play in its development, in attracting FDI and facilitate the success of Make-in-India push in the A&D sector. The panellists — who comprised of dignitaries from the defence and industries sector — also stressed on the need to bridge the trust deficit between public and private sectors and the need for them to collaborate on manufacturing defence equipment.
 
 Nine MOUs, all of them connected with defence and aerospace, were signed which will involve investment to the tune of Rs 9,341 crore and provide 5,700 employment opportunities.
 
 Besides moderator Amber Dubey (partner and head of aerospace and defence sector at KPMG), the panellists included Arunakar Mishra (CEO and MD of Genser Aerospace), V Venkata Raju (chairman and MD of VEM Technologies), Anil Gupta (country head of Military Aircraft Airbus), Air Marshal Ashwani Kumar Nabh (ACAS Operations, IAF) and Commodore Ajay Sharma from Bharat Fauj.
 
 “There is already a drone corporation existing in the state. IAF is keen to collaborate with the AP government to set up a testing and certification centre here. However, we are yet to get permission from the Centre,” said Air Marshal Ashwani Kumar. 
 
 Arunakar Mishra suggested that the government should set up an aerospace information and innovation coffee club for youngsters interested in the A and D sector. He also stressed on the need to identify mega projects. Venkata Raju spoke about creating a defence manufacturing centre near Gannavaram.
 
 The discussion also veered round one of the biggest problems in the A&D sector — trust deficit between the private and public sector enterprises. “Instead, they need a collaborative approach and should work on each other’s strengths. It is a big problem that a defence equipment is made in India but has to be taken to the US for testing and then brought back to show the results to the ministry of defence. Speed and ease of doing business is required. Focus should be on maintenance of equipment in India, the speakers felt.
 
 
