THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government has finally filled a key post in the state consumer disputes redressal commission that had been lying vacant for over two years owing to multiple reasons, including political. 

 On April 12, state government notified the appointment of lawyer S Renjith as a member of the commission. The appointment filled a vacancy that arose on May 14, 2016 when a former member's four-year term ended. 
 
 Applications were sought to select a candidate during the tenure of   government. As many as 53 persons applied for the post and 49 were found eligible for interview by the selection panel (comprising redressal forum president, law secretary and consumer affairs secretary). Of this, 35 turned up for the interview. Then, committee prepared a list of three candidates.
 
 However, the newly-elected   government - defying several legal opinions - scrapped the list by citing inadequacies in the selection process. Such a decision, according to sources, was taken with an objective to accommodate nominees favoured by CPI . But, the plan failed when one of the shortlisted candidates approached the high court against the government decision to quash the list and selection process. The single bench quashed the government order.
 
 The government then moved a division bench against the order. The same petitioner told the court that she was the most-eligible candidate as her name came first in the 'rank list'. The division bench, which on November 23, 2017 upheld the single-bench verdict, said government could pick the candidate of its choice.
 
 Meanwhile, complaints were raised against minister   and CM   was petitioned against the alleged moves to belittle merit in the selection process. This prompted CPI to put its weight behind Renjith, who was not connected to it.
 
 The post attains significance as   may accept the report submitted by Justice   on the selection of members to the forum. 
 
 Sources said the panel had recommended that remuneration and other facilities should be on par with high court judges. If so, the remuneration of members would increase three-fold.
 
 
