PATNA: Corrosion-resistant steel will be imported either from   or China for the rehabilitation of Mahatma Gandhi Setu and vehicular movement on the western flank of the Setu will resume next year, Union road transport and highways minister  , who was here recently, said.

 The existing superstructure of the 5.575km-long Setu is being completely demolished and triangular steel girders, as seen in rail-cum-road bridges like   or   rail bridge, is proposed to be erected as part of the rehabilitation work.
 
 Senior MoRTH officials said Corton or corrosion-resistant steel is proposed to be used in making triangular steel girders, which will prevent corrosion of the steel structure. “We were initially in talks with an Indian firm for corrosion-resistant steel, but it could not materialise. As the corrosion-resistant steel is manufactured in China and Japan, we will now import it from one of these countries,” an MoRTH official said.
 
 Work on demolition of the western flank of the Setu started in February last year. As of now, spans have been demolished up to pillar number 26 from Hajipur end of the bridge. “New steel girder-based spans were initially proposed to be laid on the western flank of the bridge by September this year. However, the deadline was extended due to unavailability of construction material. However, the entire project will be completed within the stipulated timeframe of 42 months,” said an MoRTH official.
 
 The 35-year-old Setu is being rehabilitated by AFCON Infrastructure Ltd, the firm selected by MoRTH for the ambitious project in a joint venture with Sibmost. The Union cabinet had on July 22, 2016, approved rehabilitation of the Setu at an estimated cost of Rs 1,742.01 crore. The deadline for completion of the rehabilitation work is May 18, 2020.
 
 
 
 
 A bridge parallel to Jayaprakash Setu between Digha and Sonepur will be constructed as part of the proposed outer ring road in the city. Union road, transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari approved the proposal at a meeting with state government officials in the state capital recently. The outer ring of Patna is proposed to pass through Bihta, Daniyawan, Fatuha, under construction six-lane Kachhi Dargah-Bidupur bridge, Hajipur, Pahleja Ghat, Digha and Bihta.
 
 
