MILAN/NEW DELHI: Citing insufficient evidence, an Italian appeals court on Monday acquitted two top executives of defence and aerospace giant   of charges of alleged bribery for the 2010 Rs 3,600 crore VIP helicopter deal with India.

 
 Milan’s third court of appeal acquitted Giuseppe Orsi, the former president of Finmeccanica, and  , former CEO of the company’s helicopter subsidiary  , according to Italian news agency ANSA.
 
 The CBI said the order would have no adverse bearing on their case in the AgustaWestland deal. “The trial in Italy was conducted on the basis of evidence provided by Italian authorities. Ours is an independent probe and the case... is very strong,” said CBI spokesperson Abhishek Dayal.
 
 The case against Orsi and Spagnolini resulted from an investigation launched in 2012 into the sale of 12 VIP helicopters. Both were cleared on charges of committing international corruption at the first-instance trial in 2014 but convicted of false invoicing and sentenced to prison.
 
 India had scrapped the contract with AgustaWestland in January 2014 for 12 AW-101 VIP choppers over alleged breach of contractual obligations and charges of kickbacks paid by the firm for securing the deal.
 
 After the arrest of Orsi and Spagnolini by Italian investigators, CBI probe was ordered into allegations that kickbacks to the tune of Rs 362 crore were paid. India barred Finmeccanica and its group companies from participating in any new defence programme.
 
 The judgment comes even as the CBI has chargesheeted former IAF chief S P Tyagi, Orsi and Spagnolini among others for corruption, cheating and criminal conspiracy and claimed to have tracked the money trail in the UPA-era scam.
 
 Saying a CBI court had already taken cognisance of its chargesheet, filed last year, an officer said, “Orsi and Spagnolini were first convicted for falsifying invoices in October 2014 by the trial court in Italy. They were cleared of corruption charges at that time as well. The name of Finmeccanica was dropped by Italian prosecutors in July 2014, as AgustaWestland agreed to pay €7.5 million as settlement.
 
 But then the appeals court in Milan sentenced Orsi to four and a half years and Spagnolini to four years in jail in April 2016 on the basis of the same set of evidence.” The officer said one of the main accused,  , had already confessed in an Italian court through plea bargaining.
 
