CHENNAI: Uncertainty over the validity of Telecom Regulatory Authority of India's ( ) tariff regulations on issues ranging from licencing to content creation will continue for a while more, as a division bench of the Madras high court delivered a split verdict. As the bench of Chief Justice Indira Banerjee and Justice M Sundar could not deliver a unanimous verdict, now the issue will go before a third judge. Interestingly, the third judge should be junior next only to the chief justice, as the current bench was headed by the chief justice herself. 

 On Friday, while Justice Sundar concluded that the provisions of the regulation and the tariff order were not in conformity with the Trai Act and hence they were liable to be struck down, Chief Justice Indira Banerjee did not concur with the finding. She said: "In my view, the impugned provisions neither touch upon the content of programmes of broadcasters, nor liable to be struck down. However, the clause putting cap of 15% to the discount on the   of a bouquet is arbitrary. The said provision is, in my view, not enforceable. In my considered view, the challenge to the regulation and the tariff order fail."
 
 In March 2017, Trai brought in certain amendments to its regulation to regulate, determine, impact content creation, generation, exploitation, licencing and terms and conditions for exploitation of content and broadcast reproduction rights of broadcasting companies.
 
 Assailing the regulations, Star India and   approached the high court contending that Trai could regulate carriage but not content, and said the interconnect regulations and tariff order made by Trai were outside the scope of its regulation-making power and tariff order-making power.
 
 Noting that their contracts with   were entirely in the realm of the Copyright Act and Trai could not step in, they reiterated that Trai could regulate carriage but not content.
 
  and Vijay Television Private Limited had originally filed writ petitions in the Madras high court against the draft regulations and the court had on January 9 issued an order of status quo. The Trai then moved the  , which on March 3 permitted Trai to notify the regulations. Challenging some of the clauses, the present writ petitions have been filed by broadcasters, who pressed for stay of operation of those clauses.
 
 
