LUCKNOW: Claiming that the   did not have the sole right to Dalit votes, Union minister for social welfare and empowerment Ramdas   said that if   supports his Republican Party of India (RPI) in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, he will be able to get Dalit votes for BJP. 

 
 Athawale said that his party, an ally of BJP at the Centre, would also support its candidates for the upcoming Kairana and Noorpur bypolls and also in Karnataka where the RPI is itself contesting on 30 seats. 
 
 "Since BSP chief   is working against us, I will propose to the BJP to support us during the next Lok Sabha elections. We will be able to win two to three seats at least in UP and RPI can be used to get Dalit votes for BJP. Those who support Dalits always come to power and Dalits had voted in large numbers for BJP in 2014 to ensure that   became PM. Harassment of Dalits has not started with the BJP coming to power but has been taking place for years," he said. Athawale said the   had "no right to meddle with laws", referring to the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, and that he did not agree with the court observation that the Act was being misused. 
 
 He added that if the court's final order was against the original Act, the Centre would consider bringing in an ordinance or amending the Act.
 
 The minister further said that BJP lost the Gorakhpur and Phulpur Lok Sabha byelections not just because SP and BSP came together but because there were to be fresh elections within a year, Modi did not pay much attention to it. "But now we will support BJP's candidate in the Kairana and Noorpur bypolls. We will benefit if SP and BSP come together. Everyone is trying to come together to defeat Modiji but he is a strong leader. BJP has taught both SP and BSP a lesson. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav was my friend but he should not have disrespected his father Mulayam Singh Yadav and become party president instead. My new friends are Yogi Adityanath, Keshav Prasad Maurya and BJP," said Athawale.
 
 Reacting to the recent controversy surrounding BJP MLAs accused of taking food from outside while claiming to be eating with Dalits in their homes, Athawale said that "if something like this had happened, it was not right".
 
 The minister said: "Eating at the house of a Dalit will not benefit them in any way but it is a social initiative and such measures should be taken," he said.
 
 
