Coimbatore: Yet to emerge from the blow dealt by demonetisation and GST, industrial units in Coimbatore are fearing another jolt due to the rise in the prices of essential commodities. What has worried them more is the fall in investments flowing into the state. While new investments in neighbouring states, particularly Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, have been going up steadily, investments in Tamil Nadu have been going downhill since 2015. New investments in the state have come down to Rs 1,574 crore in 2017 from Rs 4,793 crore in 2016, according to the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP). Invariably, workers are the ones who will be affected the most because of the prevailing industrial climate. “This is not at all a good sign. This will spur unemployment drastically,” said K K Rajan, president of Southern India Engineering Manufacturers’ Association (SIEMA). Considering the number of graduates passing out every year and the fall in investments, not just graduates would be left without jobs, the present employees too could lose their jobs, as no company would be ready for expansion, he said. Chances are high that more than 50% of the workers, mostly in micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) who are doing job works will go jobless in the next two years if the situation continues, he said. There are about 10,000 MSMEs in the district. “There could be large scale migration of skilled labour to other places,” said Vanitha Mohan, president of the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ICCI), adding that it would affect the revenue of the state. Small scale unit owners say some of them have stopped fresh recruitments and some have reduced their workforce. “The only way to balance the situation and protect the existing companies is that the government should extend support by providing enhanced incentives at least for a couple of years until the situation improves,” said K Selvaraj of South India Mills Association (SIMA), adding that demonetisation and GST too have created a huge impact. “Unless the government comes up with special policies just like the year-long policy during the global economic slowdown in 2008, the situation is not going to improve,” he added.