Panaji: With the state capital witnessing a plethora of projects under the Union government’s ambitious Smart City Mission, Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Ltd has moved to appoint a project management consultant (PMC) to monitor the progress of the Smart City proposals underway in Panaji. The consultant will provide assistance to Imagine Panaji Smart City Development for the planning, management, implementation and execution of projects proposed under the Smart City Mission. “Project management consultants shall be responsible for comprehensive consultancy for all projects conceptualised by Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Ltd, from concept to commissioning stage. This will cover designing, supervision and entire contract management, including quality control along with payment certification post construction,” Imagine Panaji Smart City Development stated in its invitation for bids from companies. The project management consultant’s primary role will be to ensure on-time, under-budget delivery of projects. The Panaji Smart City mission is pegged at approximately Rs 1,775 crore, including contribution from the state and central government, along with public private partnership investment. According to a senior Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Ltd official, the appointment of a project management consultant is essential to ensure timely completion of projects. The state has designated Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Ltd, a wholly government-owned special purpose vehicle, as the state mission directorate for AMRUT and state mission management unit for the Smart City Mission. The special purpose vehicle has already held discussions with NASSCOM, Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry, ASSOCHAM, FICCI to exchange views and identify robust, modern technology that could be used to improve the quality of life in Panaji.  Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Ltd expects the companies to respond by March 23. Technical bids will be evaluated on the same date.