If Melania   were indeed trapped in a twisted dystopia where she’s visible to millions yet a prisoner in the White House, she wouldn’t be going down without a fight. Her choice of headgear to welcome the French president and first lady could have well been evocative of the white bonnets of Margaret Atwood’s handmaids, but a symbol of submission it certainly was not. The decision to hat her head while Brigitte   was hatless was not a style statement – it was protective armour, a “defensive perimeter”, as TV host Stephen Colbert called it. And it clearly worked, forcing Donald Trump to air kiss her from a foot away and circumventing any cheek-to-cheek at all. And it wasn’t her only defensive tactic. Once again, her hand refused to yield when Trump’s pinkie finger did a little dance around it in trying to get her to hold his hand, even as both stoically stared ahead. But cameras, perhaps used to expecting Melania’s hand-shade by now, were poised to zoom in and capture the skirmish to play it later in squirm-worthy slow-mo.

  
  
 
 The   and first lady might have been like two hostile states eyeballing each other, but the two presidents were another story. Those expecting another knuckle-cracking death grip from Macron a la Brussels last May were in for disappointment. Macron and Trump appeared to have let bygones be bygones and bromance like they were the oldest of – rather affectionate, somewhat handsy – friends. There was lots of mutual praise. There was even more handshaking, hugging, touching on the arm, and the French style of kissing on both cheeks through their multiple meetings. Trump even gave a demo of just how close they were when he pretended to brush off a speck of (we hope imaginary) dandruff from Macron’s collar, one body language expert likening it to the close bonds forged by “gorillas grooming each other”. From his legendary awkward handshake, Trump seems to have evolved to the next level of presidential greeting – the bromance that makes everyone else awkward. But it seemed to be a short one. Macron might have allowed himself to be led by the arm by the US president, but he wasn’t going to be swayed. The next day, he took barely concealed swipes at many of Trump’s political stances, employing what experts dubbed the “velvet hammer” after his charm offensive the previous day. It definitely seemed to have softened the blow, though. 
 
  
    Trump stares stoically ahead as her husband’s pinkie finger explores the possibility of a hand-hold while welcoming the French president and first lady
 
 Donald Trump has always been a rather hands-on greeter, his traditional style of ‘yank and grab’ handshakes to exert his dominance, and how the opponent responds, being the barometer of how a meeting of two leaders is going to go. Macron’s white-knuckled clench in Brussels that left Trump trying to wrest away his hand is even credited by some as the reason Trump pulled out of the Paris climate accord (which now kind of explains Macron’s change in tack). But it’s not always about power play, it might appear that the US president just likes a little hand-to-hand (unless you’re  , then you’re safe). If he likes you, he’ll demonstrate it several times by making tactile contact (from Putin to Modi, to name just two). His refusal to let go of Theresa May’s hand during a pretty clumsy and lengthy walk down a White House corridor had many wondering just what was going on. May tried to pin it down to Trump trying to be “a gentleman”, which was promptly dismissed as unlikely. She later joked at a Tory party fundraiser after receiving a round of applause that she hadn’t “received such a big hand since I walked down the colonnade at the White House.” 
 
 
  
  Melania has often ignored Trump’s fingers probing for a hand-hold, used coats to hide her hands (as above) and even swatted away his hand in full public view
 
 The British prime minister was certainly being more polite than the US first lady has been, even though most wouldn’t blame her for her public displays of affliction. No matter how persistently Trump’s hand reaches out to her, sometimes, she’s just not having it. She regularly pretends to not notice his poking fingers while blankly staring ahead, has swatted away his hand in full public view on more than one occasion, and even performed the classic manoeuvre of tucking her hair behind her ear like she just thought of it the second Trump’s hand ventured towards her. And wearing her coat over her shoulders is just as useful in hiding her hands while Trump blindly searches an empty sleeve as it is fashionable.
 
  
  Donald Trump walked hand in hand with British PM   down the entire length of a White House colonnade
 
 With so many and such brutal public rejections, could it be then that Trump is only looking for affirmation from other quarters? ‘Someone please hold my hand when everyone’s looking’? Perhaps the long-running joke of the ‘Donald Trump hand clutch’ could just be an anxious attempt at external validation. Maybe take some advice from  , Mr Trump, and just ‘shake it off’? 
 
  
  French President Emmanuel Macron’s visit to the White House was brimming with their new-found bromance, with watchers keeping score of their hand-holding, hugs and kisses. Trump brushes off ‘dandruff’ from Macron’s collar to demonstrate how close they are
 
  
  
 
