Nagpur: Educating students and farmers on innovations that are taking place in the world are of utmost importance as the agriculture sector is in total disarray mainly due to lack of coordination and flexibility between the central and state agencies which give advise on various issues, said S Parsuraman, former director of Tata Institute of Social sciences, Mumbai, on Friday. 

 With the number of farmers dwindling, time has come that experts in the field introspect and find reasons why the situation has come to such a passe, Parsuraman said in his presidential address at the inauguration of a two-day national agriculture conclave (NAC) at a city hotel. The event has been organized by GH Raisoni University (GHRU) in collaboration with Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). 
 
 Parsuraman lamented that the youngsters today are not too keen to do farming. Adopting a scientific approach at every step of farming coupled with help from skilled manpower can save the agriculture sector, he added.
 
 The conclave deliberated on status and scope of human capital requirement in agriculture and allied sectors, education, innovations and institutional reforms for improving the condition of farmers. Akhilesh Pandey, chairman of Madhya Pradesh Private University Regulatory Commission, Bhopal, and Narendra Singh Rathore, deputy director general of agricultural education division, ICAR, New Delhi, were the guests of honour. 
 
 Pandey was of the opinion that plant help clinics and farm-to-consumer markets should be set up to create employment opportunities and ensure coordination between manpower and technology for better yield.
 
 Rathore said simplification of agricultural processes, efficient practical training, trading and market skills are necessary to attract young minds towards farming. 
 
 In his introductory remarks, Rajan Welukar, vice-chancellor of GHRU said, “When we speak about the right approach to farming techniques, it is important to improve the quality of education so that the students are better prepared to tackle various issues. 
 
 A change is mandatory to survive, Welukar said, and added that concerted efforts should be made by the agricultural scientists to develop proper temperament among youngsters and encourage them to take to farming. Any initiative should be backed by the agencies concerned with future generations in mind, he added.
 
 Chancellor of GHRU Sunil Raisoni chaired the function. Mrunalini Naik proposed a vote of thanks.
 
 
