LUCKNOW: Besides managing law and order and crime control in the state,   is grappling with another challenge these days.

 Hundreds of bills amounting to crores of rupees, pending since March 2002, have to be cleared in a timebound manner. The amount to be disbursed is Rs 2.26 crore, spent on security arrangements during   visits to temple town Varanasi.
 
 The amount was utilized for setting up barricades and to arrange for vehicles required for mobilizing security personnel.
 
 On March 10, the state government provided a budget for the pending bills with the rider that bills generated for the two purposes between March 2002 and September 2017 should be settled. In the same order, the government had also set aside an additional Rs 1.29 crore for Varanasi police to settle bills of vendors roped in to erect barricades around   temple for crowd control.
 
 In this 15-year period, 50 dignitaries (President, vice-president, Prime Minister, Union minister, chief minister) came calling to the eastern UP district on the banks of the Ganga.
 
 According to officials, since Prime Minister   represents Varanasi in the  , the expenses have shot up in the past few years. Almost 40% of the pending amount (Rs 86 lakh of Rs 2.26 crore) was incurred after Narendra Modi became Prime Minister, winning elections from Varanasi.
 
 Unwilling to be identified, a vendor engaged by PWD for VIP arrangements in Varanasi said, “Putting up barricades is among the least expensive jobs. The total budget runs into crores. Hence, contractors push bills for erecting barricades or providing taxis at the end as the amount in question is trivial.”
 
 The state government had directed police headquarters in Allahabad to ensure bills are examined thoroughly before being cleared. A screening committee had been set up under IG Varanasi range   to go through the bills.
 
 “Bills amounting from Rs 1,575 to several lakhs are pending since 2002. Vendors have been sending reminders. Hundreds of files have to be looked into,” said Ratan.
 
