KOLKATA: Chastened by two back-to-back accidents — one of them fatal — outside   and  , the   police has decided to step up its presence outside all popular malls, especially at night and on the weekends. Cops said that besides ensuring smooth pedestrian flow outside the malls, they also want to clamp down on unrestricted pickups and drop-offs right at the gates of the malls, which add to peak-hour traffic jams.

 
 “We have decided to depute traffic sergeants to ensure that four things are properly followed. The most important thing is to ensure there is   when pedestrians cross the road. Secondly, our men will be deployed to prevent illegal parking around the malls’ vicinity so that the roads don’t get congested. Thirdly, we want buses to drop off passengers at designated stops. Finally, we have asked our teams to make sure normal traffic flow around the malls is not disrupted during peakcrowd hours,” said DC (traffic) Sumit Kumar.
 
 
  
  
 
 Police said they are using the recent fatal accident outside Acropolis Mall as a test case to improve their response. The crossing near the mall is among the busiest in the city. “Besides the mall, there are government and private offices along the road, as well as some schools near the crossing. Traffic becomes unmanageable in the evening during the festive season,” a sergeant said. Large chunks of pavements in the area have been encroached up on, forcing pedestrians to walk on the carriageway. Cops have been asked to look into this aspect too. “If required, we will seek the help of the civic agencies to try and free up the space on the pavements,” said an officer.
 
 The local traffic guard is studying the traffic pattern to ascertain if any road furniture can be added to secure the visitors’ movements. “It can be anything — from an additional traffic light to a specific channel which pedestrians can use. Once we get the responses, we will decide on the future course of action on a need basis,” explained a senior officer from the planning section.
 
 Cops are also planning meetings with mall administrations in the next few weeks in an effort to show them the truth about the traffic situation outside their premises. “We will ask them to take steps to manage illegal parking and make prior arrangements according to the space available. We had tried to streamline parking outside a mall in south Kolkata recently, but had met with opposition,” claimed an officer.
 
 Sources added that certain long-term plans — like installing a foot overbridge next to   — were also at an advanced stage.
 
