KANYAKUMARI: Kanyakumari MP and union minister of state for shipping and finance,  , on Tuesday said that he had made a representation to the railway ministry to set up a new railway division headquartered in Tirunelveli. He was responding to representations in this regard made by MLAs who spoke before him at the event in which the union minister of state for railways participated in Nagercoil.

 Radhakrishnan said that it was a long pending demand of this region to create better amenities and bring more trains here. “A new railway division headquartered at Tirunelveli should be formed for the three districts or this region should be attached with Madurai division,” he said and added that efforts would be taken for better road, rail, sea and air connectivity from Kanyakumari to Chennai.
 
 Earlier, Rajya Sabha MP A Vijayakumar (AIADMK) who was among those who pressed for separating Kanyakumari region from Thiruvananthapuram, said that there were only two trains from Kanyakumari to Chennai through Madurai and Trichy – at 7.20 am and 5.40 pm – as against eight from Thiruvananthapuram to Chennai during the same time. “It is badly affecting commuters here,” he said.
 
 Vijayakumar also pressed for additional platforms and foot over bridges at Nagercoil Junction and also criticised the railways for not providing adequate seats, shelters and toilets at the junction. Battery operated cars for the benefit of aged and differently-abled people and permission to fund construction of toilets at railway stations were among his demands.
 
 Kanyakumari MLA S Austin (DMK) who also pressed for a separate division pointed out that the Nagercoil and Kanyakumari stations fetched an annual revenue of Rs 47 crore and Rs 28 crore respectively. “Kanyakumari attracts international tourists too but the two stations lack basic amenities such as drinking water and toilets,” he said. He also requested a train from Kanyakumari to Thiruvananthapuram after sunset to give a boost to tourism and generate more revenue for the railways too. Rail connectivity from Kanyakumari to Kasi and converting the tri-weekly service to Rameswaram into daily were among his demands.
 
 Nagercoil MLA N Suresh Rajan (DMK) alleged that Nagercoil Town station lacked lights and basic amenities and that no action had been taken despite making repeated representations to the   and Thiruvananthapuram division officials. He also sought a parallel railway over bridge at Oluginaseri to decongest traffic to Nagercoil. Better coaches in the poorly maintained Kanyakumari Express were among his demands. Nanguneri MLA H   ( ) said that the railway ministry should provide two more trains connecting Chennai and Kanyakumari.
 
 
