TRICHY: R Usha, 30, from   in Thanjavur district is the latest victim of the unruly behaviour of policemen towards helmetless two-wheeler riders in Trichy city and rural parts of the district. Commuters say that lower rung policemen, hardpressed to achieve targets set by top officials, have been harsh towards the violators. 

 A kick by traffic police inspector  , 47, on the bike on which she was riding pillion with her husband cost her life at Ganesha Roundabout in Trichy Wednesday night.
 
 Since November 2017, the beginning of the drive against helmet violations in Trichy, the policemen have been adopting undesirable ways to intercept two-wheelers. Wednesday’s incident happened in a rural area where the district police had been unduly stringent on the violators for the past several months.
 
 Suddenly appearing with a lathi before the two-wheeler riders at the corners of the road, sticking out the lathi to intercept the vehicles and chasing down the offenders are some of the methods employed by the cops for the crackdown.
 
 "Their task is to impose fine. So, they won’t bother to intercept the vehicle in any way. It is the higher officials who are to be blamed for not sensitising the low-rung police staff about how to enforce the rules without disturbing the public," said Amal Antony, an advocate.
 
 The ‘effective’ crackdown brought them a windfall of around Rs 36 lakh by imposing fines on 36,000 people in one month - December 2017. On an average, 1,700 cases were booked daily after the drive was in place.
 
 Under the jurisdiction of 14 police stations, every day they should book at least 100 cases of helmet violations each, besides other offences such as not fastening seat belts, overloading etc. Since the main focus was on helmet violation, the police hardly showed any attention to other traffic violations.
 
 Member of the Road Safety Council, Trichy, M Sekaran said that the helmet violators risk their own life while other violations by motorists put the life of others at peril. "Enforcement of helmet rule is the need of the hour. Not wearing helmet is just a violation not a crime," said Sekaran.
 
 District collector   promised to sensitise the police on how to enforce the rules and regulations without causing inconvenience to the people. "The chief minister insisted on maintaining the law and order with the cooperation of the public. Following the unfortunate incident of the woman’s death, we will sensitise the police and closely monitor the helmet rule in Trichy," the collector told TOI this evening.
 
 He also confirmed the solatium of Rs 7lakh announced by the state government to the next of kin of Usha.
 
 
