KOLKATA: The police, along with Kolkata Municipal Corporation and Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority, are making foot overbridges (FOB) at four strategic crossings to protect pedestrians who are increasingly falling victims to road accidents. However, the real challenge for cops is to make the pedestrians use these foot overbridges as most of them across the city are underutilised.

 The first FOB is coming up at Alipore — between the zoo and the aquarium.  , which acts as the north-south corridor parallel to DH Road, is accident prone with the high-speed traffic and huge number of zoo- and aquarium bound pedestrians.
 
 The area has National Library and the Alipore campus of Calcutta University that generate a sizeable pedestrian movement. “Once the FOB is ready, we will have a continuous median divider to stop jaywalking,” said a senior police officer.
 
 Similarly, the city police and   are also placing continuous barricades along the pavements to stop pedestrians from spilling over on the carriageway. “We will also install automatic digital boards and speed monitors,” the officer added.
 
 The second foot overbridge will be built across the width of AJC Bose Road between SSKM Hospital’s north gate and Vivekanada Park. “This is perhaps the most important one as the pedestrians have a harrowing time crossing the road given a complicated multi-directional traffic. Any small glitch here can cripple the entire south Kolkata traffic,” said an officer.
 
 The third FOB is being built at the Chingrighata intersection to cross over the EM Bypass from Chaulpatty Road to Jal Vayu Vihar. KMDA might install an elevator and an escalator at the FOB to facilitate cyclists. The spot had hit the news after a cyclist and two college students died while crossing the road on February 3.
 
 The fourth FOB is planned across the Salt Lake Bypass near the western slope of Nabadiganata flyover, which also sees a high pedestrian footfall.
 
 However, traffic and transportation experts felt the FOBs don’t serve their purpose. Corporate funds come easy because of the advertisement rights that come free with the FOB. The city has several FOBs along  , but these underused contrustions have become mere elevated shanties.
 
 
 
 
 Many of these foot overbridges can be the solution we are looking for. But proper planning is essential. Installation of FOBs at places, where there may not be too much pedestrian traffic, can be a waste of money.
 
