KOLKATA:   airport is set to get its first  , courtesy Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh   to Kazi Nazrul Islam University in Asansol on   where she will be conferred an honorary D.Litt.

 
  
 Though   will be in the region the previous day as well when she travels from Kolkata to Santiniketan to attend the convocation at Visva-Bharati along with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and inaugurates the Bangladesh Bhavan thereafter, she will fly to Bolpur directly from Kolkata airport in a helicopter on arrival from Dhaka. She will fly back to Kolkata in the chopper.
 
 On May 26, she will travel to the airport and board the Biman Bangladesh special flight, a Boeing 737-800, to fly down to Kazi Nazrul Islam Airport at Andal near Durgapur before driving down to the university at Asansol.
 
 Excited about the foreign dignitary’s visit that will also herald an international carrier’s maiden flight to the fledgling airport, officials have prepared banners to welcome Sheikh Hasina. At present, the airport has only one daily operation, a direct Air India flight between Durgapur and Delhi. With over 90% load, SpiceJet is also willing to introduce flights between Durgapur and Bengaluru and Hyderabad, but wants the Bengal government to offer aviation turbine fuel at lower rates to its flights when they refuel at Kolkata airport.
 
 On May 25, the Bangladesh PM will arrive at Kolkata airport at 9am by the special Biman Bangladesh aircraft before proceeding to Bolpur in an IAF chopper. There she will visit Rabindra Bhavan and then attend the convocation that will be chaired by the chancellor, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is expected to fly down to the Indian Air Force aerodrome at Panagarh and then take a chopper to Santiniketan.
 
 After the convocation, the two leaders will inaugurate the Bangladesh Bhavan and then proceed for a luncheon meet.
 
 Both the PMs will depart in the evening, Modi for Delhi and Sheikh Hasina for Kolkata. The following morning, the latter will fly into the region once again, this time to the airport and a university named after the national poet of Bangladesh.
 
 Though CM Mamata Banerjee is also invited to the programme at Visva-Bharati, sources said she could cancel the trip after the frosty exchange with Modi over panchayat poll violence. If that happens, the CM may meet Sheikh Hasina, who she addresses as Apa or elder sister, either at the hotel where the latter is staying on May 25 evening or during her visit to either Netaji’s house or Jorasanko the next evening.
 
 If, on the other hand, the CM does decide to travel to Santiniketan, she will fly down in a helicopter from either Dumurjala stadium or AAI aerodrome at Behala. Incidentally, this is the first convocation with the chancellor in attendance in 10 years.
 
 
