Coimbatore:  , the city recognised the contribution of women to the society on Thursday, the International Women’s Day. While an Air India flight from Chennai,  ,  , postwomen and women postmasters at the city’s head post office conducted a celebration to highlight their service.

 The city airport came alive with celebrations, flash mobs and felicitations as the Air India flight from Chennai with seven women crew members landed around 2:30pm. They were welcomed by the airport staff. Women crew members of IndiGo airline also performed a flash mob. Two napkin vending machines were inaugurated at the ladies’ restrooms in the airport.
 
 At the Head Post Office in R S Puram, about 35 women workers — postmaster, postwomen, sub-staff clerks — gathered together to celebrate the day. “We had a felicitation where we honoured female workers of the department. In the evening, a lucky draw and a health awareness programme were conducted,” postmaster Andal Srinivasan said.
 
 Thandhai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam members conducted a women’s day function at the Periyar Padippagam at Gandhipuram. Amidst a regressive climate where atrocities against women such as rapes and honour killings are on the rise, it was important to understand Periyar’s ideas, women, who attended the event said. “What Periyar had said in his work ‘Pen Yen Adimai Aanal?’ (Why has the women been enslaved?) comes very close to the ideas of feminist philosophers such as Simone De Beauvoir. It is important to read and understand him to tackle atrocities against women,” said 26-year-old R Amudhini,, a photojournalism student.
 
 V Nanammal, the 98-year-old yoga teacher, who was honoured with Padma Shri, was felicitated at several places in the city, including the city airport and and the Nehru Arts and Science College.
 
 The Indian Women Network of Confederation of the Indian Industry, Coimbatore zone organised women’s day celebrations with the theme ‘Be Inspired’. Writer Thamizhachi Thangapandian, who was one of the chief guests, said women were suppressed by the caste system. “Only if caste system is abolished, women will get complete freedom. Women should increase their self-respect,” she said.
 
 The department of Home Science Extension Education and Women’s Studies Centre jointly celebrated theInternational Women’s Day at the Avinashilingam Institute for Home Science and Higher Education for Women, where women achievers were felicitated. PSG Institutions honoured former secretary to the ministry of human resource and development Sarala Gopalan with an award.
 
 The Sri Ramakrishna Polytechnic College also organised a women’s day function, where assistant commissioner of income tax J Dhivya Ruth was the chief guest.
 
 
