HYDERABAD: Fearing backlash from the people ahead of the election year, the   government has junked the proposal to merge nearly 40   with the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation ( ) and has clubbed them with 18 new municipalities around the city.

 
  
  
 
 The earlier proposal was aimed at expanding the city limits by merging the IT corridor, including   and Pocharam, as well as Shamshabad where the   is located in the GHMC limits. But TRS leaders from the erstwhile Rangareddy districts protested saying that such a move would lead to higher taxes and turn the people against them.
 
 At a public meeting on Friday, municipal administration minister K T Rama Rao announced the scrapping of the proposal and assured that no new taxes will be levied even in the new municipalities for the next two to three years.
 
 Official sources said the biggest urban local body would be Nizampet, which will include Nizampet, Pragatinagar and Bachupally. Similarly, the Shamshabad municipality will include areas such as Shamshabad, Kothwalguda, Satamrai, Ootpally, Tondupally and Chinnagollapally.
 
 “Since there are elected bodies in the gram panchayats, new municipalities will come into effect only after their tenure is over. The panchayats have tenure till July this year,” a senior municipal administration official said.
 
 The state government’s initial proposal to merge 40 gram panchayats within the Outer Ring Road (ORR) with the GHMC was to ensure planned growth, better administration and better law enforcement, mainly to curb illegal construction. Besides, senior officials including collectors of Ranga Reddy and Medchal districts had favoured merger of villages within ORR with the civic body. But the municipal administration department was forced to withdraw the proposal due to opposition from local politicians due to fear of enhanced taxes if they come under the GHMC.
 
 Sources said municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao was also in favour of bringing all panchayats in the GHMC, especially Shamshabad, Manikonda, Nizampet, Bachupally and Adibatla, under the city civic body. But opposition from TRS leaders, including MLAs from Ranga Reddy and Medchal districts, forced him to reconsider. “If there is any need for expansion of GHMC jurisdiction, it will be done in the future,” a senior official said.
 
 In the recent assembly session, the government had already made an announcement on creation of 68 urban local bodies across the state by merging 173 villages after completion of the present term of gram panchayats. Apart from this, seven urban bodies such as Jalpally, Jillelaguda, Meerpet, Boduppaly, Peerzadiguda and Medchal, which were already created by the government but whose process was stalled due to court cases, were also cleared.
 
 
 
 
