TRICHY: People often take too much care of their physical health but fail to pay as much attention to their mental health, said Dr M S  , city-based consultant physician and former state president of   (IMA). 

 This year’s World Health Day, which falls on Saturday, is themed on universal health coverage for everyone and everywhere. On this particular day, every year, several campaigns and awareness drives are conducted across the world to urge people to focus on health and wellness and to discuss about health issues and diseases.
 
 Speaking to TOI, doctors from   said that it was imperative for people to follow particular routines every day to stay healthy and they also reinstated that everyone should lay equal emphasis on mental health along with physical health. 
 
 “The term ‘health’ according to me is a combination of three things - physical, mental and emotional well-being. It is high time that people in the city are given enough awareness about how mental health and physical health are related to each other,” said Dr Ashraf.
 
 He also said that setting a routine and sticking to it was the most important habit everyone should inculcate and follow. “It is very simple to follow. Eating and sleeping well and engaging in physical activities everyday can help people stay away from multiple health issues and diseases,” he said.
 
 Clinical psychologist Dr   said that issues like stress, depression and anxiety disorders are increasing among people in the city. “People should understand not taking enough effort to maintain good mental hygiene can lead to psychosomatic disorders,” he said. Psychosomatic disorder means a physical disease that is caused or made worse by mental factors. 
 
 Most of the doctors, speaking on how the district has progressed in making healthcare available to everyone, almost unanimously stated that “the district has one of the best healthcare facilities in the state.”
 
 Dr S Kamaraj, district Siddha Medical Officer for Trichy, Karur, Perambalur and Ariyalur, mentioned that his department had set up several awareness camps in the recent past to create awareness about health. “Our focus is mainly on educating people about how following the routines which our ancestors have practised can lead to a healthy lifestyle,” he said.
 
 
