SALEM: Two professors in the physics department of   in   were hospitalised with injuries after they assaulted each other on the campus on Friday.

  P  , head of the department of physics, and P M Anbarasan, professor, have lodged complaints against each other with the Suramangalam police station.
 
  Kumaradhas joined the department a decade ago, three months ahead of Anbarasan. However, Anbarasan got promoted as professor before Kumaradhas as per his career and paper publications. “Anbarasan was expecting the HoD post as he got promoted as professor from associate professor,” a senior professor from the department told TOI. When Kumaradhas became the HoD based on his seniority in Periyar University, it created enmity between the two, the professor said.
 
  Sources in the university said Kumaradhas and Anbarasan often used to have wordy duels even for silly issues. On Friday, Anbarasan noted his date of joining and seniority in the attendance register, though it was not mandatory. Annoyed at this, Kumaradhas demanded to know why it was mentioned in the register. Anbarasan retorted angrily, triggering heated arguments between the duo. After a point, they began assaulting each other with sandals.
 
  Fellow professors and lecturers separated them. Kumaradhas was admitted to the government medical college hospital in Salem city while Anbarasan was admitted to a private hospital. Police have registered a case based on their complaints.
 
  Talking to media persons, Kumaradhas said it was Anbarasan who attacked him with his shoes. When contacted, Anbarasan said he would send his version through WhatsApp. However, he sent only an evening Tamil daily’s paper cutting and requested TOI to take it as his version.
 
  Vice-chancellor of Periyar University P   described the issue as unfortunate. He said he had no words to describe such a fight between two scholars. “What will people think about the university and its professors,” he said. “I have formed a two-member committee to probe the issue. We will take action against the wrong-doers based on the report and the police investigation report,” he said.
 
 
