NOIDA: Union minister   has directed officials of   to carve out two lanes along the   to ease the flow of traffic between Noida and Delhi, a proposal that could see the felling of nearly 500 trees at a time NCR is reeling from rising pollution levels.

 The proposal, made at a meeting on Saturday, elicited a sharp reaction from environmentalists. They said the plan to build two additional lanes between the Noida entry gate and the Mahamaya flyover would have little effect in the long run, given the rate at which the number of vehicles is rising. Instead, the activists suggested, an elevated road would help ease the traffic better.
 
 “I have discussed with the environment ministry the issue of cutting down 500 trees. If we get an analysis done, we will realise that the damage being done to the environment by thousands of vehicles getting stranded here every day is much more than that caused because of the felling of the trees,” the minister was quoted as saying at the Saturday meeting. Sharma is the minister of state for environment, forest and climate change.
 
 The horticulture and civil department will now conduct a survey to ascertain the feasibility of carving out the lanes by cutting down the trees. The activists have said they would write to the forest department, suggesting an elevated road instead.
 
 During the course of the meeting, the Authority officials informed the minister that constructing an additional lane on the Noida-Delhi flank of the road would be easier said than done because of the lack of space.
 
 Ombir Singh, director horticulture, said the civil department would now conduct a study to see how many trees needed to be felled in the space available. “A survey will be conducted on the space available,” he said.
 
 Sources said once the survey was completed, it would be sent to the forest department for approval.
 
 Activists objected to the felling of trees. Vikrant Tongad, a member of the Social Action for Forest and Environment, said: “Vehicular emission is one of the major causes of air pollution. But curtailing it should not come at the cost of trees. We need a policy to regulate fuel emission levels and maintain the green cover. We will write to the forest department not to grant permission for the proposal,” he said.
 
 District forest officer HV Girish said his department would examine the proposal once it came to him. “I am not aware of any such proposal. For every project that involves cutting down over 50 trees, permission has to be sought from the conservator of forests,” he said.
 
 
