NEW DELHI: Bidding to host an international tournament in India without informing the sports ministry could land the   ( ) and the   (NSFs) in trouble. It could even lead to the ministry red-flagging the event even if India have won hosting rights.

 
 Putting an end to the practice of IOA and NSFs bidding on their own to host a major sports meet and then sounding off the ministry, sports minister Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore has brought a significant change in the “policy for bidding of international events” which involve huge expenditure and large-scale preparations.
 
 Henceforth, the IOA and NSFs will have to seek approval before expressing their interest to host events such as World Cups, World Championships, Asian Championships,   and Asian Games, among others.
 
 “While seeking approval of the ministry to bid, they should submit an approximate figure of the financial assistance which could be sought from the government in case the bid is successful and the Games are hosted in India,” said a ministry note, a copy of which is with TOI.
 
 “Not seeking NOC/approval of the ministry before the bidding but seeking it after the Games have been allotted to India and by the concerned international body would be not at all appropriate since any view regarding not holding the Games, if taken by the government, would cause a great deal of embarrassment to all concerned.
 
 “The ministry reserves the right not to support the event if prior approval was not taken, including denial of clearance from sports angle even at the ‘no cost to government’,” the note added.
 
 The ministry has categorically told the IOA and NSFs that since organising such events involve huge expenditure and preparations including infrastructure development and security arrangements, it becomes difficult for the ministry to consider giving financial and other assistance in the absence of proper ground work being done. The ministry has listed out documents for the IOA and NSFs to furnish while submitting the proposal.
 
 “It must include name of the event along with its format and duration; detailed break-up of the budget proposed; financial assistance to be provided by the state government/host city; other sources of funding such as from commercial rights, broadcasting rights etc.; availability of infrastructure and complete details of logistic arrangements required for the event such as accommodation, transport, communication, medical facilities to be provided to sportspersons, officials etc. and development pathways as to how will the event help in promotion of sports among youth.”
 
