MUMBAI: The five men last seen with emcee Arpita   (24), who was found dead under mysterious circumstances at a Malad highrise three weeks ago, have undergone a lie-detector test at the Directorate of Forensic Sciences Laboratory (DFSL), Kalina. Arpita’s family had pressed charges of murder but   did not make any arrest for want of strong evidence. Reports of the polygraph are awaited. Forensic tests have ruled out the possibility of Arpita being sexually assaulted. The presence of alcohol has been detected in her blood sample. 

 The five, one of whom is a cook, were summoned to Malwani police station for daily questioning since the death. But police were unable to establish the sequence of events leading to the death. Statements given by the five were inconsistent, police said. 
 
 Sources said the consent of all five was taken before subjecting them to the test. As per procedure, DFSL staff take a detailed interview of the investigating police officer before the polygraph. They then take a separate interview of the person who will undergo the polygraph. He is asked questions about events spanning his entire life. The forensic team goes through case papers and information gleaned from interviews before forming questions regarding the crime committed. During the polygraph, the person has to either reply in the affirmative or negative. 
 
 Arpita’s family said they were upset with the lack of progress made in the case. “There is nobody except these five who is connected to Arpita’s death as the incident occurred within the confines of a house. The suspects are no dreaded criminals. We wonder why police are taking so long to gather evidence against them. It pains us to know that the killer is roaming scot-free. Police have not shared details of the investigation with us,” said Shweta, her sister.
 
 The family has hired an advocate and has done some sleuthing on their own. They have combed Arpita’s social media accounts as well as those of her boyfriend and common friend to look for leads. They have also tracked down friends in whom she had confided that she was on the verge of breaking up her relationship of several years.
 
 
