Want the latest buzz on the gossip front? A peep into the lives of the rich and famous? A wind of Chennai’s best-kept secrets? Writer, activist, anchor, and queen bee   fills you in with all that and then some in this   

 
  Kapoor is all set to tie the knot with   on May 8. And there are a select few Chennai guests on the invitee list. Fitness enthusiast and Princess of Vijayanagaram, Vidya Singh and her extended family, senior advocate Sanjay Ramaswami and wife, and Shruti Haasan are said to be on the exclusive guest list for the wedding. 
  
  
 
 The one girl the marriage market is abuzz about is Mandira Bansal. The designer may have had a tumultuous past in her well-talked-about relationship, but today, after her climb back as a recognised designer by the top weavers and craftsmen of India, she is networking in nicer circles and the high-profile families of Mumbai, Delhi and even Rajasthan are looking at this Chennai girl for their billionaire boys. Let’s hope we hear wedding bells soon. 
  
  
 
 Daughter of retailer Lakshmi Krishnaswamy, Pavitra (or Ren as she’s fondly called) is topping the popularity charts online. From top actors to industrialists, she’s been able to get them all to open up on their beauty and fashion secrets on her blog. Also, there are a lot of jealous tongues wagging about this 20-year-old because she’s managed to impress the MD and the top management of Chennai’s latest entrant, a top luxury mall, to give her most of their in-house events. But you know how so-called ‘close friends’ can be, jealous, and bitter about her growth. 
  
  
 
 Tamil Nadu Health Secretary   Jagannathan is one of the most powerful IAS officers in this administration and definitely the most fashionable, too. The man, who gives credit to his lovely wife, Krithika, for his wardrobe, is always spotted in colour-blocked shirts, snazzy suits and even formats that have a classy sheen on them. His son may be an aspiring actor who’s done some advertisements, but if he ever chose to act, Radhakrishnan can surely be a glamorous addition to our film industry. 
  
  
 
 Restaurateur and fashionista Mallika Chaudhuri, whose love life with a famous tattoo artiste was as much discussed as her Anglo-Indian eatery, seems to have called it quits with the man with whom she had a live-in relationship for over four years. The lady, who had moved bag and baggage, was initially shocked at the number of his exes who reached out to her after the break-up! But this trooper chose to not wallow in self-pity or anger. She has quickly followed her passions and has now also started a beauty business.
  
  
 
 These two gym bunnies, one of whom is a city realtor, we hear, are cozying up at nightspots and coffee shops on Khader Nawaz Khan Road. The once-married tall dude calls his ‘friend’ bro in front of his set of friends, but later, they cozy up to each other. Last heard, the young dance choreographer dude even threatened him, according to family sources close to them. I am for all kind of love and relationships as long as they don’t violate anyone’s space, but what is surprising is that this hunky realtor has made such homophobic comments in the past to his closest gym mates.
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
