KANNUR: Police have registered a case against a woman on charges of physically torturing her 90-year-old grandmother, at Ayikkara here. The accused has been taken into custody.

 
 According to Kannur city police, they registered the case against the woman, identified as Uppalavalappil Deepa, after the video of her abusing Kalyani, her grandmother, went viral in social media on Monday.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The neighbours said the 39-year-old Deepa used to torture the old woman frequently and they had alerted the police also. However, since there was no evidence, according to the police, no case was registered. When the neighbours tried to prevent Deepa, she abused them as well and tried to attack the old woman in public, which some of them captured on a cell phone and shared on social media.
 
 They said the elderly woman used to do the household chores despite old age. In the video, Kalyani is heard crying bitterly and saying that she was being beaten up regularly. The woman had bruises all over her body. According to Kannur corporation councillor C Sameer, who represents the division where the said incident happened, Deepa and her two children are staying with her mother  , 70, and grandmother Kalyani. Since she has been separated from her husband, and they had no other source of income, Deepa used to do some private job and run the family.
 
 “When I interacted with the neighbours, they said they saw Deepa beating up the elderly woman, who has mental health issues. On my interaction with Deepa and others, I felt she is also mentally disturbed and the family is also experiencing financial trouble,” he said.
 
 Considering the pathetic situation of the family, a voluntary organization which runs Athani, a shelter home for orphans and the destitute, has taken their responsibility, including the protection of the children. After the elderly woman is released from the hospital, she will be shifted to Athani along with Janaki. Police, who have registered the case under sections 341, 323 and 324 IPC, said the accused woman also seems to have mental health issues.
 
 “When we questioned the woman, she said she does not have any job now and has many disturbances. She claimed that she did not beat up her grandmother, but from the video it seems she was being tortured regularly,” said K V Pramod, circle inspector, Kannur city police.
 
