A good combination of traditional and modern techniques in farming is sure to make a farmer successful ecologically and financially, says S  , 43, a progressive farmer from Theneerpatti village near   in   district.

 "While adopting the age old traditional methods that our forefathers had practised, we should also listen to the agriculture authorities to get a good yield," Manavalan says. He has been into farming since the age of 18 and has crossed more than 25 years in cultivating paddy, sesame, black gram in the 15 acres of his ancestral land.
 
 This year, he has leased five acres to some of the villagers to raise cucumber, a summer crop. "I always keep in touch with the agriculture authorities, from field-level staff to the district-level officials, to get to know about the latest trends and techniques in farming. But at the same time, I also have the practise of using green manure,   and panchakavya, which were all practised by our forefathers," he said.
 
 When adopting only the traditional method of cultivation, the yield won’t be that much as we expect. However, nowadays, farmers could achieve the target set by the agriculture department as they follow the methods suggested by the officials, he said. "For the last 10 years, I have been raising paddy sprouts on mats and transplanting them using machine. This would reduce the labour cost considerably. Moreover, the government gives us subsidy for utilising the paddy transplanting machine. Though we need chemical-free agricultural produce, we should also give importance to achieve good yield. It is advisable to utilise machinery wherever it is required. It will help farmers to overcome the shortage of labourers," he said.
 
 Water management is also important. The ‘Maasi Pattam’ paddy (summer crop) is ready for harvest in nine acres despite acute water shortage, he said. "Vermicompost is the best soil-nutrient to help the soil retain its moisture. It also reduces water consumption by almost 25%. While Panchakavya helps to protect the crops from pests without killing the insects which is essential to the crops," he said.
 
 Manavalan has also been cultivating green manure. In order to chase (not kill) insects, he has planted varieties of cereal crops along the bunds of his agriculture lands. These are all directed by the authorities from the district agriculture department, he said. Manavalan said that if a farmer executes his job systematically, no one can stop him from earning good revenue.
 
 
