DIMAPUR: It's 7am and four people are sweeping the sprawling lawn outside and two dogs lie curled up, not wanting to be disturbed this early, as   gets ready for what is going to be a long and trying day for him. His armed guards, meanwhile, are trying to keep themselves warm from embers of a fire that was lit the previous evening. 

 The   candidate from Dimapur-I, the only unreserved seat in the 60-member   assembly, is composed and confident of a win as voters start queuing up outside booths to exercise their franchise.   a chequered jacket that goes well with his dark trousers, Ayemi says, "I am quite comfortable this time." Asked what are the key issues for voters in his constituency, the sitting MLA adds, "Development and security."
 
 His constituency is the only general seat which means people belonging to the hill tribes are not in majority here like they are in the rest of Nagaland. 
 
 As the conversation goes on, a mug of steaming black tea arrives for Ayemi who refuses to have breakfast. His phone, hooked to a power bank, keeps ringing intermittently with party workers and friends providing early-morning briefings. Ayemi had contested the last election on a Naga People's Front ticket.
 
 Asked if 'solution' to the Naga issue is one of the most important poll issues here, he says, "Yes, people are equally concerned." 
 
 On the mantel of the fireplace in the drawing room are framed photos of Ayemi surrounded by his four kids. In one of the photos, he is seen vacationing with his wife in Dubai. His wife, Amity, says hello' as she rushes out to do the rounds of polling stations accompanied by an armed guard and a friend who's carrying a water bottles. "She shares half my load," says Ayemi. 
 
 It's 7.30am now and Ayemi suddenly looks concerned. The reason is a phone call. "An EVM in booth 37 isn't functioning," he says, as he calls the returning officer to resolve the issue. 
 
 Ayemi gulps down the tea hurriedly and blurts out instructions to his associates and security officials. Before boarding his car, Ayemi has a brief discussion with his elder brother.
 
 Ayemi stops at a polling booth in Dimapur-II, where he is enlisted as a voter, and fulfills the duty of casting his vote. The die being cast, he rushes to a booth in his constituency and then to Number 3, the troubled zone. The EVM issue hasn't been fixed yet and party workers are complaining that people are getting restless. "We have our genuine voters here who can't cast their votes," says a party worker. 
 
 Ayemi gets inside the polling station to talk to officials and finally gets the problem fixed.
 
 
