COIMBATORE: A lot is at stake when Chennai City FC (CCFC) take on   in their last I-League match of the season at the   here on Friday.

 
 It’s a must-win encounter for CCFC in their battle to save relegation. With Gokulam Kerala and Indian Arrows immune to relegation, the battle to beat the drop will be between ninth-placed CCFC, who have only 16 points from 17 matches, and Churchill Brothers, who have 17 points from 16 games and are at eighth spot. Although superior head to head results give CCFC an advantage, Soundarajan’s men should leave nothing to chance and go for three points and hope Churchill Brothers go winless in their remaining two matches. But things won’t be easy for CCFC, who are coming on the back of a 1-7 thrashing against East Bengal.
 
 Their opponents Minerva Punjab, on the other hand, who finished at the bottom last season, have defied all expectations and are leading the table with 32 points from 16 matches. After two consecutive losses, the Khogen-Singh coached side have got their title bid back on track with a 2-0 win over Aizawl in the last match.
 
 Now, with two games left, the title will be theirs to lose as second-placed NEROCA FC (31 points from 17 games), East Bengal (29 points from 16) and   (27 points from 16) are breathing down their neck. No wonder then that Minerva too will be desperate for a win to open a sizeable lead over other title contenders.
 
 Minerva, though, suffered a blow ahead of the match as their dynamic midfielder Gagandeep Bali is ruled out with a nose fracture. The side will also miss regular goalkeeper   due to a niggle. So the onus will be on their in-form star forward Chencho of Bhutan, who is their highest scorer with six goals, to help them score three points. “We never underestimate our opponents. They have nothing to lose and we have to be cautious. At the same time, we will also be adventurous as we need a win. So it is important that we play well as a team and do not lose our intensity at this stage. Chencho has been leading our attack and we need him to fire tomorrow as well,” Singh said at the media conference.
 
 CCFC have no injury worries but they will be without their first-choice goalkeeper Uros Poljanec, who injured himself during the Mohun Bagan match. Kabir T will continue as his substitute. The side though has suffered due to inconsistent performance of players like forward Jean-Joachim Junior. The Frenchman had a brilliant start to I-League with five goals but has failed to deliver since. Under the circumstance, Soundararajan will pin his hopes on their homegrown hero M Soosairaj. The midfielder has been a livewire and threatened the opposition with his swift passing and intelligent ball play. “We have no other option but to attack from the start. We will go all out for a win and it will be a challenging task for the players. I want the players to dominate and thereby Soosairaj again needs to play an important role. We want to finish on a high and give ourselves a chance to beat the drop,” Soundararajan said.
 
