NEW DELHI: Officers of the vigilance department may have to face privilege proceedings after Delhi   speaker Ram Niwas Goel on Monday asked for a probe into their “refusal” to answer questions related to the department.

 Goel asked the assembly’s   to look into the matter after   raised questions on the year-wise and department-wise details of vigilance cases, wanting to know if the officers were found guilty of corruption. 
 
 Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the officers had refused to share any information on the charges of corruption against them. “The officers who came with a file to provide the answers two days ago said that the LG had asked them not to share such information. The officers also claimed that the the high court had also confirmed LG’s stand. The officers cited these reasons for not sharing the information with the House,” Sisodia said in the assembly, adding that it was “an attempt to hide corruption”. 
 
 “How is it possible that the information which is available under the RTI cannot be given to elected representatives,” Sisodia questioned. He said he will bring the matter to the court’s notice and also inform the central government about it. The speaker then directed chief secretary Anshu Prakash to provide the answers and warned the officers not to force him to an extent that he does not sign Budget 2018-19, scheduled to be tabled on March 22. 
 
 The second day of the session also saw MLAs targeting bureaucrats. AAP MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj said the “officers are not cooperating with the committees” of the assembly, adding that salaries of the officers who do not give answers to the MLAs should be stopped. He also questioned the absence of bureaucrats from recent meetings of the assembly committees. “The bureaucrats are trying to escape from accountability by not appearing in the meetings,” he said. Bharadwaj also accused the LG of “protecting the officers and encouraging them to move the court whenever committees of the House initiate proceedings against them.”
 
 Meanwhile, the assembly ordered IAS officer   to appear before it on Tuesday after an MLA Gulab Singh raised objections to statements made by him on an incident where a group of students allegedly thrashed a teacher. 
 
 
