Pune: The government’s booster shot of Rs 3,173 crore into the Pune-based Bank of Maharashtra (BoM) will help the lender meet its minimum regulatory requirements for up to two years and be left with Rs 500-600 crore “for growth”. “Of the fresh commitment, about Rs 2,500-2,800 crore will be required for meeting the regulatory requirements and the balance will be available for growth,” Ravindra Marathe, managing director and chief executive officer of BoM told TOI in an exclusive interview. The bank, which was put under the prompt corrective action (PCA) of the RBI since June 2017, has taken steps to bring it out of the multiple problems that plague it. Prime among its problems is the issue of about 18% gross non-performing asset.  Marathe said the core focus of the bank is now on recovery, avoiding large exposures and cost control. “The bank no longer gives big loans to customers rated below ‘BBB’ by rating agencies. It also does not participate in consortium, which has more than 10 lenders,” the BoM chief said, adding that the bank has been able to recover Rs 1,800 crore of bad loans in the first nine months of the current fiscal. The bank has initiated steps like one-time settlement (OTS) scheme and personally touching base with borrowers whose loans have turned sour. “We have set up a call centre under an assistant general manager, whose only job is to contact customers who do not pay up. Also, I have told them to not wait till 90 days (when an overdue loan is classified as NPA) but call them in the very first instance of default,” Marathe added. Under the OTS scheme, the bank is suggesting that borrowers pay up 60-70% of the outstanding amount and settle the account. “Even, we are taking a haircut and borrowers are also forthcoming,” he said. Marathe said against the infusion, the bank has to give a board-level undertaking to the government regarding parameters like support to small enterprises, financial inclusion and use of digital means to promote banking. The bank recently raised Rs 313 crore through qualified institutional placement.