For the past ten days, the   has been witnessing a new phenomenon. At sharp 10.15 in the morning and 5.15 in the evening, the entire workforce can be seen hurriedly making a beeline for the various  , newly installed at the respective blocks. 
The system launched by the Kerala government on January 1, 2018, aims to ensure the punctuality of the employees working under various departments and improve the general work culture. Though the punching system had been installed earlier, it was not mandatory for employees to register their attendance in it. But now, their salary is directly linked to the system. Is the new system employee-friendly? We ask the employees.
 
 
 Rema (name changed), an employee at the PRD section reaches the Secretariat from her house at Pandalam, Pathanamthitta, by train. She says, “I travel to Kayamkulam by bus and then catch a train to Thampanoor. In the evening I used to leave office at sharp 5 pm to catch the 5.15 train to Kayamkulam, and would reach home before 9 pm. But the new timing has disrupted my routine entirely as I’m not able to catch the regular train home. I reach my hometown only by 10 pm. Catching an auto or bus in those hours is not safe.” 
 
 All those who commute by train have been affected by the new system, she adds. “There are many who travel to office by train. All have complaints about the non-flexible timings of the new attendance system. We wish to present a mass petition to the government to make the system employee-friendly. We want to be punctual, but owing to the non-punctual trains, we reach our houses late.”
 
 
 Though the government employees are requested to stay within an eight km radius of their respective government offices, many are unable to do so, as the House Rent Allowance (HRA) provided to them — ` 650 to ` 2000 according to the scale — is not enough to rent a house within the city limits, they say.
 J Bency, president of the  , says, “The minimum rent for a decent house is `10,000 in the city. In the staff-quarters, only a limited number of people, those from faraway places can be housed. The rest will have to travel by train.”
 
 While asserting that the new punching time is not practical, Bency says that the new system has affected the morale of the employees. “The majority of the secretariat employees are dedicated to their work. We can’t work in the Secretariat with factory timings like 10.15 am to 5.15 pm as several departments like health, local self-government and other departments take more time to complete files and procedures. When we have assembly sessions there are many who stay back to file the assembly minutes, often till midnight. We don’t get overtime allowance, but the total hours of work could be entered in the attendance registry. But in the new system, even if an employee works till midnight, the sign-out will be registered as 5.15 pm. This will lead to an honest employee losing his or her morale.” 
 
 Satheeja VR, convener of the   subcommittee, agrees. “It is true that the punching system will ensure strict attendance. But every month we have one or two dharnas or strikes in front of the Secretariat, leading to traffic diversions. As we have to reach office at 10 am to punch on time, we are left with no choice but to walk long distances. I have also seen women employees getting out of delayed trains in a hurry even before they stop completely.”
 
 Meanwhile, former Additional Secretary Babu Paul has some suggestions on how to help employees reach office on time. “To help those who depend on train services, the government should regulate the train timings in association with the Railway Ministry and allocate free KSRTC bus services for government employees. They can be picked up from Pettah or Trivandrum Central Railway station at Thampanoor and dropped at the Secretariat,” he says.
 
 Babu Paul also says that there must be provisions to monitor the working of the employees as well. “The punching system was introduced in 1996 by the EK Nayanar ministry. But I had noticed that while there was one entry door for them, they had multiple exit doors to skip work after punching. So in the current system, the supervisors must ensure that the officers are on working mode throughout the day.”
 
 There are also employees who feel that the salary attached punching system will result in a disciplined work atmosphere. “We may face some initial hiccups but it is the only way to do away with the general image about Secretariat employees being lazy,” says   general secretary M S Bijukuttan. 
 
 Meanwhile, the management experts who have observed the working of the system for more than one week, are of the opinion that it will lead to a disciplined work culture. An official from the School of Business Management and Legal Studies under University of Kerala, says, “I don’t know if the strict punching system will increase their work efficiency, but it will increase the quantum of work.”
 
