CHENNAI: With   having sealed their spot in the semifinals of this year's  , coach   will have the perfect opportunity to test his bench when they run into   in their final league match at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium here on Saturday.

 
 "I will make one or two changes. Give minutes to some of the guys who were on the bench or upstairs. They thoroughly deserve the chance. If they perform well enough, and they fit into the system, I always have a selection headache (for the next game)," Gregory told reporters at the pre-match media interaction on Friday.
 
 A win on Saturday could help Chennaiyin FC finish either second or third on the points table and help them avoid the prospect of facing the red-hot   in the last-four stage. But Gregory said he was not bothered about their semifinal opponents as of now and plans to take one step at a time.
 
 "I've got a group of incredible players. I've been with several teams in my career but never known a group quite like this one. It's an absolute pleasure to be around these guys. They deserve all plaudits. I hope we can at least take one step further (and qualify for the final)," said Gregory.
 
 While the Englishman is open to giving some of his fringe players' minutes on the pitch, he will not want the team to go into the playoffs on the back of a loss. Another concern is the form of his main striker  , who has failed to score in the last five games. The Mumbai fixture, however, provides him an opportunity to regain his touch.
 
 The role played by Mailson Alves, Henrique Sereno and Inigo Calderon in the defence has also been key to their success. If Gregory decides to continue with them for the inconsequential tie, they will be expected to deliver once again against a strong but inconsistent Mumbai forward line.
 
 Meanwhile, Mumbai's hopes of securing a playoff spot were dashed following a 5-1 hammering at the hands of Delhi Dynamos. They will be playing for pride on Saturday.
 
 Mumbai City FC's Costa Rican coach   reiterated during the pre-match press conference that there was still plenty to play for.
 
 "We have not lost our perspective in terms of playing the last game with all the resources available. So, I will put the best players available to play even though we have been through a lot of situations and injuries. We will try to win the game. If we can win on Saturday, we can finish sixth," he said.
 
