BENGALURU: The  's plans to host the final round of the   in Bengaluru is unlikely to materialize with the   making it clear that the championship would be instead played in the East Zone.

 
 "We have made a three-year calendar and it is clearly mentioned that one of the two qualifying states from East Zone will get to host the final round in 2018. So it could be either Bengal or Odisha this year," Anil Kamat,  's head of competitions, told TOI.
 
 Asked about Karnataka's request to host the prestigious tournament, Kamat said the state may have to wait for its turn. "Yes we have received the request but this year it is almost ruled out. They could host in the coming years," he added.
 
 Moreover, the AIFF official said that the artificial turf at the   and lack of training grounds are also issues. "The artificial turf is not suitable to host major tournaments. Besides there is a shortage of training grounds," he said.
 
 During the recent Santosh Trophy South Zone qualifiers, some of the coaches and players had voiced their concern on hosting tournament on the artificial turf. "If you ask me I'll say that Nationals should not be hosted on artificial turf venues. The plastic grass was quite hot and the turf also had uneven bounce," noted coach   had said after guiding Kerala to the final round.
 
 The captain of another team said the players found it extremely uncomfortable to play on days when the matches began at 1.30pm. "The turf was quite hot and it was difficult to play," he said. The synthetic turf was laid at a cost of Rs 4.5 crore under  's Goal project and was inaugurated in 2011. But since then it has been poorly maintained.
 
 According to experts, the cleaning of the turf should be done every week to clear all the dirt. Also, every year the rubber should be levelled and the grass should be straightened.
 
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, the   on Wednesday announced that the Super Division and 'A' Division leagues will resume from February 2. Ozone FC will take on CIL in the Super Division while Bangalore Eagles will face   in the 'A' Division.
 
