Popular RJ-turned-actor  , who has been doing Tamil commentary in a leading sports channel refrained himself from doing commentary during yesterday’s   vs   match. Protests broke out hours before the match started near   stadium yesterday demanding for the match to be cancelled or postponed until the   is formed.

 RJ Balaji, who has chipped in to help people during Chennai floods and Jallikattu in the past has again made a strong statement supporting people. In a video to an online website, he was seen saying, “As my contribution to support Tamil people protesting demanding the formation of   Management Board, I have refrained myself from doing commentary for CSK vs KKR match. I would like to thank the management for understanding my feelings towards the people and letting me take the decision. There has been a lot of noise around banning   this year, requesting players to wear black bands or shifting Chennai’s matches to some other city. People think doing all these would get the attention of the central government and the Cauvery issue will be solved. I don’t think the central government is unaware of the protests or demands we keep, if we really think we need to put more pressure on the central government, we can demand our 234 MLAs and 40 MPs to resign immediately, that would create a bigger impact than this for sure. We didn’t vote for Dhoni, we voted for these politicians. If they announce elections, no one should take part in the elections, since the Cauvery Management Board is formed.”
 
 He added saying, “There are two kinds of protest, one where the people know what the issue is about and what kind of solutions can be provided to the issue, protesting to make the government try these solutions. And, the other one is where the public is completely unaware about the issue and have no solutions, protesting with vested interests. I am afraid the latter is happening in Tamil Nadu right now. I am not saying all this, Thanthai Periyar had said in the past, that ‘There is a difference between and informed emotions and inflated sentiments’. 
 
 
