MYSURU: Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national president   on Wednesday gave a clarion call to   voters to keep both the   and BJP at bay and vote for the JD(S)- BSP combine to create an inclusive society in the state.

 “The BJP has taken control of a few states by dividing people on the lines of caste and culture. The saffron party wants to replicate the same in Karnataka. Even the Congress is not different from the BJP as it too has been ‘exploiting’ Dalits, adivasis and backward classes for votes. Though they’re in power for decades, they have done nothing for the communities. It is in your hands to keep both the parties away from power,” Mayawati told a convention of workers from the two parties at Maharaja’s College Grounds in Mysuru.
 
 Mayawati was in Mysuru to launch the campaign of the JD(S)-BSP combine ahead of polls. She will visit Chitradurga on Thursday.
 
 She exuded confidence that the JD(S) and BSP combine is a winnable combination and that JD(S) chief H D Kumaraswamy will be the next chief minister of Karnataka. In the second leg of her campaign, Mayawati will be touring Hyderabad-Karnatak and Mumbai Karnataka regions in the first week of May.
 
 “ The BJP and team were against the implementation of the Mandal Commission report. The Congress praised Dalits but it didn’t implement the commission report. The Congress also failed to recognize the services of Dr BR Ambedkar by giving him Bharat Ratna. It was the VP Singh government that fulfilled both the wishes of BSP,” she stated.
 
 JD(S) supremo HD   said this election is a fight between money and people. “We don’t have money. We have to show them people power. We have received support from BSP, AIMIM and Telangana chief minister   to form a BJP and Congress-free government in Karnataka,” he said.
 
 JD(S) state chief HD Kumaraswamy later told the rally that party workers like GP member Mariswamy, who told   on his face that he is backing G T Devegowda, make the party feel proud and give it strength.
 
 POOR SHOW
 The first joint convention of workers from JD(S) and BSP in the run up to the assembly polls turned out to be a flop show. Party workers and supporters didn’t turn up in large numbers. The meeting was delayed by nearly three hours, leading to disappointment among activists who had turned up. The meeting was scheduled to start at 3.30pm but commenced only around 6pm.
 
 But leaders attributed the poor response to confusion during scrutiny of nomination papers. JD(S) supremo HD Deve Gowda and state unit chief HD Kumaraswamy both admitted that the response was not up to their expectations. Kumaraswamy, however, announced that he would organize a bigger meeting at the same venue before elections.
 
