Chennai: Even as the   price hit a new high across the country with a litre of   costing Rs 79.47 and   Rs 71.59 in Tamil Nadu, the state government has refused to lower the value added tax on fuel. Fisheries minister and AIADMK spokesperson   said it was only through fuel and liquor that the government earned a major share of its tax revenue and slashing it was not on the cards.

 If   on fuel was reduced, the government would find it difficult to identify resources for spending on welfare schemes and paying salaries, amounting to Rs 77,000 crore annually. About 70% of the expenditure is just on salary of government employees, he said. Opposition parties have criticised the Centre and state governments for the ever increasing fuel prices and have demanded slashing taxes for bringing down fuel prices.
 
 In March last year, the state government increased VAT on fuel from 27% to 34%. It resulted in petrol price shooting up by Rs 3.78 per litre. The resultant hike in diesel price was Rs 1.7 per litre. After the Karnataka assembly election, the fuel prices have been increasing almost on a daily basis.
 
 Opposition parties have been slamming the hike, charging that it has hit common man badly.
 
 In Tamil Nadu, tax on fuel and liquor accounts for about 25% of the government’s revenue. After GST was introduced and all other taxes were subsumed under it, the state government is left with only fuel and liquor to tweak tax rates.
 
  working president M K   condemned the rise in petrol and diesel prices. When oil price is falling across the world, only in India price of fuel is increasing, affecting the livelihood of common man. The Centre must take steps to bring down the fuel price, tweeted Stalin.
 
 R K Nagar MLA and AMMK founder TTV   criticised the state government for not taking steps to lower the fuel price. “India imposes high taxes on petroleum products. The BJP-led government at the Centre and the ruling AIADMK in Tamil Nadu must cut taxes on petrol and diesel to benefit common man,” said Dhinakaran. Makkal Needhi Maiam chief Kamal Hassan and other opposition leaders also demanded slashing tax on fuel to bring down fuel prices.
 
 
