Long before vegan and gluten-free became buzzwords in the city’s swish set, restaurants had started catering to the peculiar tastes of an insular tribe known for its ascetic taste in food and its bombastic taste in jewellery, the  .

 While the flourishes of this dazzling — and easily dazzled — community would at best be confined to the   every now and then, there was not much to worry about. They were wealthy, they were harmless, they were above the table. But after the recent scandal involving members of the community, every one’s inner   has been outed. As one diamantaire sums up, “He who gets caught is the criminal. In the past, any money issue would be sorted within the community.”
 
 
 The Palanpuris, originally from Gujarat, control 90% of the diamond trade in India, guarding the bourses with the same exclusionary tight fist with which they keep non-vegetarians out of building societies. Known for their hard work, their knack to spot opportunity and their incredible family network of kakas, mamas, nephews and cousins, the Palanpuris are an extraordinary story of community ties and wealth creation.
 
 The stories were mostly similar: They arrived in Belgium in the sixties and seventies, cousin by cousin. Cheap low-quality rough stones were bought in Hoveniersstraat, sent to a relative in Surat for low-cost polishing, and brought back to Antwerp where they would be sold at a small profit. Soon, they virtually took over the business from the  .
 
 People across the world, especially in the big diamond trade centres, were happy to indulge their peculiar quirks. A Palanpuri diamond merchant could easily fly from Surat to Tel Aviv, strike a deal worth crores, then retire to his five-star hotel and call room service to lay out an elegant table for the thepla and methi nu masalo that had flown with him in a separate suitcase.
 
 They have lived mostly between Antwerp and south Mumbai with a formidable family network that crisscrossed across the world. Where one went, others would follow — when it came to schools, restaurants or holiday destinations. In Mumbai, every Palanpuri child went either to New Era or Manav Mandir School (later, Activity High School and Green Lawns became popular) and boys were not expected to study much beyond 12th standard. BCom was a big deal. Qualifying beyond that would earn you a place on Palanpuronline, a website for achievements of community members.
 
 Palanpuris have long been addicted to Cream Centre and Swati Snacks and any restaurant which will endlessly churn out Jain pizza and garlic-free Mexican, a particular favourite because it offers fun options within vegetarian. If one buys a flat in a particular building, others will soon follow. Chandanbala and Purab, two apartment buildings on Malabar Hill, are 100% eggless Palanpuri buildings and the former has its own temple.
 
 The Palanpuris flew into the limelight when the flamboyant diamond merchantcum-builder Bharat Shah had a mega wedding at Wankhede stadium for his daughter, where he erected a faux Rajasthani palace and paid vast sums for the presence of filmstars. That was possibly the beginning of the diamantaire-builder-politician Bermuda triangle. Real estate prices also started going berserk in south Mumbai. Suddenly, diamond trader became a dirty word.
 
 Despite being a truly global community with sophisticated taste and exposure, Palanpuris stick to their own — socially and commercially. Palanpuris prefer to marry Palanpuris because an outsider might have difficulty fathoming the level of commitment required to cater to extended family. A Palanpuri ladies’ lunch will rarely feature a non-Palanpuri. Everyone from the community shows up at weddings and deaths. Nephews and nieces visiting uncles will always be given the ubiquitous ‘cover’ (an envelope with cash) — a symbol of permanent protection and patronage. In a Palanpuri-owned business, employees will preferably be Palanpuri. “Even the travel agent will be Palanpuri,” says a businessman. “It’s very simple. If I have a cousin who has a son who needs to be supported, I will definitely go there. It’s just understood.”
 
 Adult children typically stay with their parents, in the ‘up-down’ duplex system. The Palanpuri Samaj elders dictate betrothals, business issues, philanthropic choices and even whether or not a person can give a press interview. A member of the Parikh parivar says, “Even now, every August, some 100-odd members of our extended family from all over the world gather at our temple in Palanpur for a get-together to remind ourselves where we come from.”
 
 Over the years, things have started changing — some eat eggs and drink alcohol (though not in the house) — and Kathiawadis are entering the diamond trading space. But the Palanpuris, or PPs as the younger set describe themselves, remain a relatively tight, closed world. “Even today, if a person goes bankrupt, five people will instantly step in to make him stand on his feet again,” says one young diamantaire, adding regretfully: “Of course, this time we cannot pitch in for Mehul kaka and Niravbhai, as the amounts are way too big.”
 
