Mumbai:   counsel A M Singhvi on Thursday created a flutter in the National Company Law Tribunal ( ) when he said that Cyrus   had made “utterly irresponsible allegations” in suggesting that   and R Venkataraman were beneficiaries of financial irregularities in  , and further alleging that the funds had links to “financing terrorism”. 

 Singhvi, the senior counsel making submissions for the fifth day in a row in the Tata-Mistry dispute hearing, said, “There was not an iota of material data or basis for making such wild and baseless allegations, that too against Ratan Tata.” He said Mistry, ousted as company’s executive chairperson, was prepared to go to “any lengths of viciousness just because the board of Tata Sons had lost confidence in him”.
 
 Two investment companies of the Shapoorji Pallonji Group — Cyrus Investments and Sterling Investment Corp — in their complaint before NCLT had linked Tata Sons and Ratan Tata with Rs 22-crore fraudulent transactions alleged to have been carried out in the joint venture airline AirAsia India. The complaint alleged that “these dealings of Tata Sons, at behest of Ratan Tata, involved transactions with an alleged global terrorist”. They said that they “believe that details of dealings of AirAsia with such third parties is detailed in the forensic report issued by Deloitte. Hence…Tata group in its dealings with AirAsia have indirectly been financiers of terrorism”. 
 
 The NCLT judicial member B S V Prakash Kumar asked Mistry firms’ counsel C A Sundaram what was the basis for making such allegations. Sundaram said that there was a basis and he would give a detailed response in his rejoinder. At which Singhvi said such allegations are “perjurious, let alone defamatory”. Singhvi argued to demonstrate that Mistry had known of AirAsia all along and never protested till after his removal. He said that it was AirAsia itself which had initiated a criminal complaint for “fraud and embezzlement”. He said that the forensic report was initiated in April 2016 by AirAsia itself.
 
 Singhvi cited board minutes to show that the Mistry-led board approve further funding of AirAsia. He said that Mistry was now doing a “U-turn’’ by claiming interference though it was he who reached out to Ratan Tata on aviation issues.
 
 Singhvi read out from Mistry’s rejoinder to a reply where Tata Sons had refuted as baseless all such allegations. The rejoinder said “truth is a best defence in matters of defamation”.
 
 Singhvi is likely to conclude his arguments on Friday in the mismanagement and oppression complaint filed against Tata Sons by the two companies held by the Mistry family. The final relief sought in the complaint is of winding up of Tata Sons. 
 
 
