JAIPUR: A day after members of two communities clashed and indulged in arson during a Hindu Nav Varsh rally at   area under   police station area in Tonk, almost 500 policemen have been deployed in the area. Senior police officers too were camping in town to ensure law and order. At least 10 FIRs were lodged by people of both the communities and by police following the violent confrontation.

 At least three companies of various armed forces and senior officers including  , inspector general of police, Ajmer range, were camping in the area and were in touch with the peace committees of both the communities.
 
 
 “So far, 8 FIRs have been lodged in this case by various people. We too have registered a case against unidentified people for arson and disturbing peace,” Yogesh Dadich, SP, Tonk told   on Monday.
 
 On Sunday evening, members of the two communities entered into a violent scuffle after some people pelted stones on the procession taken out on the occasion of Hindu New Year. At least 12 people including three policemen were injured in the clashes. A few government vehicles were also torched by angry protesters.
 
 “We are in touch with the peace committees of both the communities. The day went off peacefully without any untoward incident,” said the SP.
 
 Section 144 of CrPC has already been imposed in the town to maintain law and order. “No arrests have been made in this connection so far. Our first priority is to restore peace in the region,” said an officer.
 
 Meanwhile, Chomu police arrested two persons for alleged assault on a lawyer on Sunday. Tension gripped Chomu on Saturday evening when members of two communities clashed during a procession. “The arrested accused were identified as Farookh and  ,” said Ratan Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (West).
 
 Additional forces including quick reaction teams (QRT) and Rajasthan Armed Constabulary (RAC) were deployed in Chomu following the clashes on Saturday night. ACP (law and order) Nitin Deep Blaggan told TOI that the area is peaceful but additional forces have been deployed to avert any untoward situation.
 
