HYDERABAD: Now
  Telugu is compulsory for students of class I and VI in even schools affiliated to  ,  ,   and Cambridge boards from this academic year. Though the   government’s aim may be to promote Telugu, it might create problems for non-Telugu students.

 
 According to a government order (GO) made public by the school education department on Sunday, schools affiliated to CBSE, ICSE and IB would have to ensure students admitted in these two classes start learning Telugu as an additional language.
 
 The GO (Ms No 15), outlining the Telangana (Compulsory Teaching and Learning of Telugu in Schools) Act, 2018 and the Telangana (Compulsory Teaching and Learning of Telugu in Schools) Rules, 2018, says the language introduced for class 1 and class 6 students would be progressively extended for further classes.
 
 As per the GO, the   Research and Training would develop Telugu language textbooks in English medium (other than state syllabus) and ‘other’ medium primary/ upper primary schools, where Telugu is to be newly introduced from this academic year. “All schools under all managements (ICSE/CBSE/IB/Cambridge etc.) in the state shall use government prescribed Telugu textbooks only, for classes 1 to 10,” the GO stated.
 
 In a major relief to non-Telugu families migrating from other states to Telangana, the government has exempted learning of Telugu for students taking admission in class 8 and above.
 
 
 
 
 The GO said.,“For example, if a student comes from another state, for admission into class 8 in a school in Telangana, it can be seen from his/her progress report of class 7, that he/she has not studied Telugu up to class 7. In that case, he/she can be exempted from the compulsory study of Telugu from class 8 onwards till class 10 (SSC) if the student applies.” Schools which fail to implement Telugu as a compulsory subject would be penalized as per the Act.
 
 “If a private school (aided or unaided irrespective of syllabi i.e., state syllabus/CBSE/ICSE/IB etc.) does not implement compulsory teaching of Telugu for any or all classes from classes 1 to 10, the management shall be given notice to explain the reasons in the first place by the competent authority, to be replied within 15 days from the date of receipt of the notice,” states the GO, further adding that after the specified period, if the violation is not rectified, penalty of Rs 50,000 would be imposed for the first time and Rs 1 lakh for the second time.
 
 
