Mumbai: A blaze broke out at   dumping ground on Monday afternoon, bringing back the memories of the 2016 fire at the landfill when it took the fire brigade officials almost a week to douse it. Those residing nearby were on tenterhooks as till the time of going to the press, the fire was still raging on.

 Civic officials said that such incidents are common at dumping grounds during summer as the highly combustible methane, which is generated when organic matter breaks down, catch fire due to high temperatures.
 
 On Monday, the fire erupted at 3.30pm in the pockets near Baba Nagar and Rafiq Nagar and spread rapidly due to strong winds. Six water tankers and six fire engines were pressed into action and efforts were on to control the flames till late in the evening. 
 
 Chief fire officer P Rahangdale, however, claimed, “The fire is under control and it is the smoke that is continuing to spread. We are trying to control it.”
 
 “Decomposition of garbage is known to release methane and currently, there is no way to trap the gas. This is known to cause spontaneous combustions, leading to fire in the dumps,” said another officer. 
 
 A fire brigade officer said that they faced several challenges in dousing the flames considering there is yet no proper road to reach the fire spot. “Also, there is no light at the dumping ground at night, making fire-fighting difficult,” he added. 
 
 But some officers suspect that it could be a case of sabotage and the angle will be investigated. Last week too, there was a fire in the dumpyard, which was brought under control by night.
 
 In January 2016, a fire broke out at the dumping ground and raged on for days. The resultant smoke dense haze over nearby areas, forcing schools to remain shut. The fire was finally extinguished on February 5, almost more than a week later. 
 
 Samajwadi Party corporator Rais Shaikh, who has been raising the issue, said nothing seems to have changed since 2016. “The CCTV cameras are not functional. Access to the dumpyard still remains a hurdle for firemen,” he said.
 
 
