We’ve been hearing this adage since time immemorial–beti paraya dhan hoti hai (A daughter is someone else’s property). I never paid much attention to this until reality struck me hard when I was married off at the age of 24 and had to shift to another town.

 The initial years of marriage are all hunky dory for most of us. You’re living in your own bubble and enjoying it to the core and hardly notice the world passing by. But it strikes slowly and steadily when you go to ‘your house’, or may we start referring it as our ‘mom’s house’ (I wish I could type emojis here!), and you spot a new rug. Your first expression on noticing it is, “Oh Ma! When did you buy this rug? You did not even tell me about it (trying not to get offended).” To that, Ma lovingly says, “Beta, it just slipped out of my mind to tell you about it (what a trivial matter!)”. And you just nod (holding back a river of irrational emotions). Earlier when such a mundane task of buying a rug was a family thing, everyone was involved (including you). You suddenly can’t help but feel only one thing—left out!
 
 Whenever anything like this happens, it leaves a tiny dent in some corner of your heart. You suddenly start to feel that you do not belong here. You feel left out of the world that you were once a part of, a world that was your own or so you thought! That one little incident has caused such an upheaval in your mind.
 
 At first, I thought it was a product of my overactive and superiorly sensitive mind. But one day after a heart to heart talk with a mate, I came to know that I’m not the only one and this goes on in every married woman’s head (heaves some sigh of relief!). I don’t know if this feeling has a name. Or it has been already tagged like the “7-year itch” in a marriage. But it sure does exist in the crevices of every married woman’s mind. And sometimes these thoughts pop their head out from there, raising invalid questions. Such is the life of a  .
 
 This is something that every girl goes through after she gets married. The confusion about ownership; what’s really ‘mine’? My parent’s home or my husband’s? Both or none of them?
 
 The rational explanation that comes up here is that this is a phase, and in my opinion, a transitional phase. Or in my situation, the product of an empty head, devil’s workshop. Whatever be the case, it needs to be dealt with ASAP or at least with some caution. It’s okay to have certain fleeting thoughts, till they remain in one tiny corner of your head. Letting these thoughts occupy the entire space of your mind can definitely be dangerous. Because, ultimately, we have to let it go. We have to learn to accept the situation and deal with it maturely.
 
 As the time passes by, like all wounds, this one also heals. Or at least, it hurts less. And that is because you grow up or probably get immune to it. Gradually you start accepting your surroundings and the situation you are in. Gradually but surely you start doing one thing that is extremely essential—accepting the reality. With time, you start building your own world, your own space. And that is because, by now, you are comfortable with your new life. You enter the next phase of your life. Most of you out there start expanding your own family and start making a space that is your own, a world that is your own.
 
 That doesn’t mean you stop yearning for the place where you grew up. No matter how old you grow, you will always be the little sensitive doll or the tomboy for your parents.
 
 - By Neha Gupta
 
 
