LUCKNOW: The   to get to the bottom of   has hit a roadblock. While the girl has alleged that she was sexually assaulted on multiple occasions by three youths of her village and BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar in June 2017, UP Police, it appears, didn’t collect any evidence to support their case.

 The teenage girl from Makhi area of Unnao has told CBI that she was raped by Sengar on June 4, 2017 and later on by three youths of her village Shubham Singh, Brijesh Yadav and Awadh Narayan between June 10 and June 19 last year. However, overlooking guidelines that have been laid down for handling sexual offences, local Makhi police did not forward any samples from girl’s private parts or clothes she was wearing when she was allegedly violated by MLA or the three youths, to Lucknow-based forensic laboratory for DNA or biological examination.
 
 “The development has forced us to start from the scratch. Had UP police been in possession of forensic reports against the accused persons, we could have formulated a theory in a quick span of time. Now we will struggle to collect evidence against the accused since 10 months have gone by from the time crime was committed,” said a CBI officer working on the case.
 
 
 
 
 While the girl succeeded to get an FIR lodged against the three accused youths at Makhi police (crime number 316 of 2017) on June 20, 2017, Unnao police registered a case against Sengar and Shashi Singh only on April 12 after she tried to immolate herself outside the chief minister’s residence and her father died in judicial custody. Shashi is Shubham’s mother and allegedly introduced the girl to MLA Sengar in first week of June last year, according to the FIR.
 
 After the girl was recovered on June 20, 2017, Unnao police registered case against the accused youths. Two days later, investigating officer of the case added sections 3 and 4 of POCSO Act and 376D on the basis of girl’s statement before magistrate under CrPC section
 
 164. Sources confirmed that a vaginal swab was prepared when the girl had undergone medical examination at Unnao hospital on June 21 last year but it was never sent to the laboratory. Nor the investigating officer bothered to send the clothes the girl was wearing when she was sexually assaulted by the three youths.
 
 While framing charges against the three accused on August 1, 2017, investigating officer in his charge-sheet relied upon the statement of the girl she gave before magistrate. Before being arrested by CBI, Sengar has given statements in media stating that the girl’s family was upset with him since he tried to help the three accused. ADG (Lucknow zone) Rajeev Krishna who was heading the special investigation team constituted by Uttar Pradesh government before CBI took over the case, said, “CBI will look into role of cops posted at Makhi police station during probe. Action against erring police personnel will be taken according to recommendations of CBI.”
 
 
