CHANDIGARH: The one-year tenure of newly elected Mayor Davesh   will be full of challenges.

 The 40-year-old will have to help the cash-strapped municipal corporation (MC) emerge out of a dire financial crisis and address long-pending issues, such as ensuring 24-hour water supply, sanitation and better parking facilities. Moudgil cannot achieve all this without the assistance of councillors of his party, majority of whom had objected to his candidature.
 
 Considering that he was made to apologise to his predecessor,  , who withdrew her nomination, Moudgil faces an uphill task of taking all elected representatives of his party along. Councillors in   chief Sanjay Tandon’s group had accused the new mayor of misbehaving with them last year.
 
 On Tuesday, though, Moudgil brushed aside “differences” with other councillors. “I will reach out to everyone and work for the betterment of city. I will take along all elected representatives and nominated councillors,” assured Moudgil.
 
 The ruling party, during the MC elections in 2016, had promised 24X7 water supply, which is yet to be achieved. Against the demand of 115 million gallons of water per day (MGD), 67 MGD is received from  , while the remaining is generated through tube wells. Moudgil said residents will get uninterrupted water supply by mid of this year.
 
 Over the years, the corporation has been struggling to address the problem of poor sanitation. Heaps of garbage on road sides, especially inside sectors, and overflowing dustbins are common.
 
 For a city with a population of over 10 lakh and 2.98 lakh households, the MC has around 2,200 sanitation workers, including those working on contract, against sanctioned strength of around 4,500 employees. Residents often complain of sanitation workers not being regular. In the Swachh Survekshan Survey 2017, city slipped to the 11th spot, from 2nd in 2016.
 
 The corporation has also been struggling to effectively implement waste segregation at source. “It concerns directly with the residents. We will seek people’s help to ensure segregation is proper,” said Moudgil.
 
 The corporation will also have to work to address the ever-rising problem of inadequate parking space in residential and commercial areas. The problem is grave in sectors 31 to 47, which have the highest number of registered vehicles (1.46 lakh). At present, the corporation is going through its worst financial crises since it came into existence in 1994. Due to corrective measures not taken over years, the fixed deposit (FD) of the MC decreased from Rs 448 crore to Rs 154 crore, while its revenue fell from Rs 169 crore to Rs 107 crore, from 2013-14 fiscal to 2017-18. “If required, I along with other councillors will approach the central government for funds,” said Moudgil.
 
 
