CHENNAI: Quite a few of actor Kamal Haasan’s films would take off in a big way, but would fail to meet up to expectations. On Wednesday, launching his political party in Madurai, he broke that perception, reached out to the masses, holding their attention till the end.

 Everyone went home happier, not only for getting to understand him, but also impressed by his promises to weed out corruption, to provide education for all, a caste-less society and employment to graduates. Thursday, however, dawned differently for the people, when they realised that their new-found political leader forgot to tell them how he planned to fulfill the promises.
 
 Was a simple statement from Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal enough for people to come rushing behind him and his party? "There is no dearth of money (in the system), but only good intention," said Kejriwal at the Madurai meeting, while extolling his "real life hero"  .
 
 Or was the whole launch a hurried exercise to outsmart an emerging rival? It seemed so, as the actor cobbled up a core advisory committee and hurriedly introduced it to the public. The absence of any big names of repute that could earn the respect of the public and evoke awe has already set off another debate.
 
 "People in the core committee have been drawn from various fields and in which they shone and continue to shine with their integrity and passion. As for the party’s policy, Kamal Sir’s speech in Harvard will be the guiding principle," said a member of the   advisory committee in private.
 
 "This looks more like an attempt to convert anxieties behind people’s aspirations into a support base. How he is going to do what he wants to do requires a plan. Kamal Haasan has left more questions unanswered," said  , assistant professor, Centre for Political Studies, JNU Delhi.
 
 According to him, weeding out corruption has become an empty slogan and people would like to know how he is going to do that. "Corruption is very systemic and there is no institutional accountability. He should have at least spoken about political funding. It is not a question about preparation, but about reaching out to people and telling them how to do it. People are still in hopeful mood, but they could soon get disillusioned with such empty promises, if not backed by action," said Gudavarthy.
 
 
