On the second day of their annual theatre fest, Histrionica, students of   organised a session for theatre enthusiasts with  . The ongoing annual Performing Arts Festival is organised by the dramatics society of SRCC. Pathak’s session was part of the fest’s ‘The Stage’ segment, and saw the actor speaking to students from different theatre societies about the art, and how to take it up as a career after graduation. 

 
 
 Instead of sitting on the stage, Pathak chose to sit with the students, saying, "Isn’t it better if we sit close to each other?" He started his session by saying, "I was accompanied by two students, Ayush and Rohit, when I was coming here from my hotel. And Rohit told me that he doesn’t have a girlfriend. 'Toh maine kaha, chaliye aaj ke function mein karte hain kuch'."
 He added, "I was told that I will get to meet a lot of actors, directors and theatre enthusiasts at this event. I was very happy to know that. 'Maine inn logon se kaha bhi, ki hum jab bhi Delhi aate hain natak leke, aapke yahan se koi dekhne nahi aata. Toh inki madam ne bataya ki bahut busy rehte hai, inhe likhna padhna hota hai, cinema dekhna hota hai, naarebazi karni hoti hai, date pe jana hota hai, joh ki bahut zaroori hai. Agar aap woh nahi karenge toh aage kaise badhenge?' But I want to congratulate you guys if you have decided to do theatre in life. 'Kyunki aapke sangharsh ke din ab shuru ho gaye hain. Agar aap paise kamane ke liye theatre karna chahte hain, toh paise toh nahi hai, bhai.' If you want to make money, then don’t do theatre, if you want to make money, then don’t become a writer. Don’t do these to make money, because it does something to your craft which is not very good. If you love your art, it is going to make you happy. I shouldn’t be shooting my mouth sitting in SRCC, talking about money, but from my own experience, I can say money is the last thing that makes you happy," he elaborated. 
 
  
  SRCC students during Vinay Pathak’s session at the college’s annual Performing Arts Festival
 
 
 
 Pathak has not only shown his craft in movies, but he keeps performing plays across the country. When a student asked him, "How has theatre evolved through years?", he replied, "When I started doing theatre, there were less opportunities. And there were only some cities which had theatre facilities. 'Chhote sheharon mein natak hona impossible tha'. But that has changed today. I have recently done shows in Ranchi, Indore, and Bhopal, and people come to watch plays by   in English and they understand it. 'Aur jo yeh humari soch hai ki chhote shehron mein logon ko sahitya ki itni samajh nahi hai, woh bilkul galat hai'. As a matter of fact, some of the most evolved audiences that we got were in these small towns."
 
  
  
 
 
 Another question that was posed to the actor was, ‘How do you define your relationship with Ranvir Shorey?’ "We are not married to each other. I am not the reason why he has separated from his wife. We are very good friends and we have a group of friends which includes  ,   and others who come from the fraternity of experimental, small, creative cinema, and we like being in that space. We do not mind not making a lot of money, this sounds silly, but we do not. We like to do what we do, and we are happy in that space," he explained. 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
