Noida: A 40-year-old woman was injured while washing clothes as electricity supply ran into the hand-pump which was connected to a submersible pump in Kherli Bhaw village in Rabupura, Greater Noida on Thursday afternoon. A buffalo was electrocuted at another hand-pump in the same locality. The woman, Rajwati, has been admitted to a private hospital with burns.

 Locals said some people had connected submersible pumps with the government hand-pumps to water their fields. On Thursday afternoon, there was a spark in the local transformer and suddenly electric supply ran into the hand-pumps. Rajwati was washing clothes when she got an electric shock.
 
 “She suffered burns on her hands and legs and fainted. She was tadmitted to a private hospital in Greater Noida,” said a local resident. A farmer, Rafeek, was bathing his buffalo at another hand-pump when he also got electricity a shock and was thrown away. Rafeek managed to escape, but the buffalo, which was tied to the pump with a rope, was electrocuted.
 
 Family members immediately informed the power department about the matter. Kalicharan, a lineman, reached the spot and disconnected the electricity supply. He said the matter is under investigation.
 
 Sunil Pradhan, a local resident, said some people have illegally occupied the government-owned hand-pumps and connected them to submersible pumps and motors to fetch water for their fields and personal use. “This is illegal and there are no security checks on these connections.” Electronic gadgets in some houses were also damaged due to a sudden increase in voltage. A squirrel sitting on the transformer was also electrocuted.
 
 However, Rajwati’s family did not report the matter to the police and power department fearing action for illegally connecting the hand pump with submersible pumps. Rajveer Singh Chauhan, SHO of Rabupura police station, said police had not received information about the matter. “We have sent a team to the spot for investigation,” he said.
 
 A K Singh, superintending engineer PVVNL division 2 and 3, reiterated that the department did not get any information about  . “No motor connection is legally allowed to be connected to hand pumps. Some people in rural areas tend to take illegal connections from transformers to connect to hand pumps and for domestic connections. In the event of any short circuit or damage to person or property, they do not complain,” Singh told TOI.
 
 He said it could be a case of taking illegal connection from the local transformer, which may have resulted in the short circuit.
 
 
