RAJKOT/PALANPUR/AHMEDABAD: The bandh call given by various Rajput community outfits evoked a mixed response in the state on Thursday as shops and business establishments that remained closed in the morning returned to routine work by afternoon.

 Barring Mehsana which saw violent clashes between the mob and police and some skirmishes in Rajkot city, there was no major untoward incident reported anywhere in the state.
 
 A police sub-inspector suffered skull fracture in heavy stone pelting by a mob of Rajput community at Maguna chowkdi, around 18 km from Mehsana town. “The mob resorted to heavy stone pelting and clashed with the police. The   has suffered a hemorrhage,” said Chaitanya Mandlik, superintendent of police, Mehsana.
 
 Police also lobbed two tear gas shells to disperse a mob of around 800-1,000, most of whom were armed with swords. The mob was trying to forcibly close down shops.
 
 In Vadodara, a mob of around 25 persons blocked the Vadodara-Halol highway near Amaliyara village, leading to a four km traffic jam. The protestors squatted on the road and burnt tyres but all of the fled as soon as police reached the spot.
 
 In Vadodara city, a large group gathered at Navlakhi ground to take out a rally to meet multiplex and cinema hall owners and thank them for not screening the movie. However, police officials reached the ground and denied them permission. The protesters were allowed to gather near the statue of   in Fatehgunj. Some people in small groups visited prominent multiplexes just to ensure that the movie is not being screened.
 
 Markets in Karjan town in Vadodara and Bodeli in Chhota Udepur observed a voluntary ‘bandh’ as a mark of protest against the movie.
 
 In Saurashtra, most towns and cities observed bandh in the morning hours. Bandh was nearly complete in Rajkot, Dhrangadhra, Surendranagar, Halvad, Bhavnagar, Talaja, Mahuva, Mundra, Amreli, Botad, Jamnagar, Manavadar, Morbi and Gondal. 
 
 Skirmishes between shopkeepers and Karni Sena were reported at some places in Rajkot city as they tried to forcibly close their shops. Most schools and colleges remain closed fearing attacks by the Rajput mobs in the city. Multiplexes and other cinema halls, however, started screening other movies by afternoon but the crowd was thin. Around 20 people were rounded near   when they clashed with the police who stopped them from forcibly closing the shops.
 
 The market yards in Bhavnagar, Rajkot and Morbi remained closed fearing violence.
 
 In Lakhtar town of Surendranagar, vandals ransacked a pathology laboratory while a mob also blocked the Pipavav highway by burning tyres. Post-midnight, rioters also burnt tyres on   road in Rajkot, Gondal highway and Bhavnagar-Ahmedabad highway.
 
 In north Gujarat, an atmosphere of fear prevailed in Sabarkantha, Patan, Banaskantha and Aravalli districts where bandh was observed in the day time.
 
 Close to 141 people were detained across Banaskantha for trying to create trouble and 25 were detained near the Palanpur bus depot before they could attack buses.
 
 Hundreds of passengers going to Rajasthan were stranded at the Palanpur bus depot as the state transport buses did not operate fearing attacks by vandals. Private jeeps and other vehicles took full advantage of the situation and began charging exorbitantly from passengers.
 
 
