NEW DELHI: Chief minister   is not likely to go on an indefinite   from April 1 on the   issue. He had earlier announced, in solidarity with the affected traders, that he would take that step if the issue was not resolved by March 31. He had reiterated his resolve to do so thrice — once inside the   – but not announced a date. The traders, however, believed he would do so from April 1.

 “The CM has postponed the decision for the moment because the Supreme Court is going to hear the matter from April 2 on a day-to-day basis. The Delhi government has appointed two senior lawyers in this matter. The CM has decided to closely monitor the situation,” said AAP’s Delhi chief spokesperson,  .
 
 The party too pitched in with a press release on Friday. “The CM has been appealed to by several trade associations and also advised by some lawyers that when the matter is in court and the court is going to hear it on a day-to-day basis, his fast could annoy the court, which would adversely impact the outcome. They urged the CM to postpone his decision,” it said. 
 
 Kejriwal has been urging the Centre to bring an ordinance or a Bill in Parliament to immediately stop the sealing drive. The Delhi assembly had also passed a resolution in support of the same demands as AAP MLAs raised the issues.
 
 The CM had reached out to his political rivals to find a way for stopping the sealings and later led an all-party delegation to meet the SC-appointed monitoring committee, which is carrying out the sealings. These were seen as steps to make inroads into the support base of the traders’ community. These moves — besides sending two people from the traders’ community to Rajya Sabha — have strengthened his base among the traders.
 
 But the decision to postpone the hunger strike will provide ammunition to his political opponents. Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari described it as “another U-turn by Kejriwal.” In a tweet, Tiwari said: “AAP cheated traders and Delhiites once again.” Praveen Khandelwal, general secretary of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), said: “This was just a publicity stunt by Kejriwal to grab eyeballs and garner sympathy of traders. ” CAIT has asked Kejriwal to spell out the demands he will make if he goes on a hunger strike later. 
 
 Sources in AAP said that Kejriwal may eventually go on a hunger strike if the sealings did not stop though many party functionaries believe that since he is a diabetic, it will not be a very wise step. In the last two hunger strikes that Kejriwal undertook, his health had worsened and doctors had described his survival as a miracle.
 
 Throughout Friday, the traders were kept guessing. A stage had been erected at the Amar Colony market with huge LED screens. It was at this market — site of the biggest sealing action so far — that Kejriwal had announced his decision to go on a hunger strike. Mandeep Kohli, general secretary of the market traders association, said: “When our kids told him that they want to sit on a hunger strike, Kejriwal had said he would do that for them, and now they are not even picking up our phones.” 
 
 “This turnaround will further dent his image,” said Rajender Sharda, who heads the GK1 market association. Rajinder Malik of the Defence Colony traders association said he was disappointed. “Kejriwalji should reconsider his decision. A CM on strike will put tremendous pressure on the Union Government.”
 
