Mumbai: Some foreign companies, having liaison offices (LOs) in India or who avail of market support activities from their Indian subsidiaries or agents may need to re-examine their operating structure to avoid an   (  exposure in India. If a foreign entity has a business connection in India, the profits attributed to its India operations can be taxed. 

 If a foreign entity has a business connection in India, the profits attributed to its India operations can be taxed. The budget proposals have widened the scope where activities in India are carried out through an agent and has sought to plug instances of tax abuse where business operations where fragmented. Splitting up of business operations leads to some foreign companies contending that only ‘preparatory and auxiliary activities’ are performed in India, which do not give rise to a business connection. Thus there can be no tax levy in India.
 
 “There had been cases in the past of liaison offices of foreign companies in India, carrying out activities which went beyond merely acting as a communication channel between the foreign company and its Indian customers. They were performing activities which were inextricably linked to the core revenue generation business activity of the foreign company, such as negotiating and completing sales in India and were beyond the realm of ‘preparatory or auxiliary’ activities. In extreme cases, Indian customers had never ever dealt with any personnel of the foreign company and their sole points of contact were the employees of the liaison office in India. The proposed amendment will now assist Indian tax authorities to decisively conclude that such foreign company’s liaison office in India constitutes a business connection for the foreign company in India. It will enable them to tax profits attributable to the real economic activity carried on by such liaison office in India. Thus, foreign companies need to carefully examine the activities actually carried out by their liaison offices,” explains Hitesh Gajaria, tax partner at  .
 
 “India has been consistently taking a position that where a non-resident has an agent in India who plays a leading role in conclusion of contracts (even if such agent does not actually sign the contract), the non-resident should be still be considered as having a business connection in India and the profits attributable to the activities of such agent should be taxable in India,” says Maulik Doshi, Partner, at SKP Group. 
 
 “India reiterated this position in the Multilateral Instrument (MLI) signed by many countries, under the   led base erosion and profit shifting project. Some countries have agreed to amend their treaties with India in this regard. However, the definition of ‘business connection under the I-T Act however did not specifically mention India’s position, resulting in a potential situation where the definition under the tax treaties could have been broader than the definition under the I-T Act. This is now being corrected,” explains Doshi. “While the modification of the various tax treaties (resulting from the MLI) will become effective over a period of time in the future, the proposed amendment to I-T law will become effective from financial year 2018-19. For foreign entities that are resident in treaty countries, the more beneficial treaty provisions would continue to be available till the modification of the relevant tax treaty becomes effective,” concludes Pranav Sayta, tax partner at  .
 
 
