VISAKHAPATNAM: With senior   carrying on their silent  , state-wide Junior Doctors’ Association (APJDA) carrying on with their indefinite boycott of elective duties and health minister Kamineni Srinivas resigning from the Union cabinet over the TDP-BJP rift, the health department is in a crisis. To make matters worse, doctors of the Indian   Association (IMA) is up against the new   Bill (NMC), which is going to replace the Medical Council of India (MCI).

 The situation may aggravate in the coming days if the strike continues and doctors choose to boycott the emergency duties as well. 
 
 On Monday morning, hundreds of APJDA members from Andhra Medical College, who have been boycotting elective duties since March 8, undertook a motorbike rally from King George Hospital to Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Gandhi statue via Saraswati Park. The strike is set to continue on Tuesday as well. 
 
 The senior government doctors have been silently protesting for about a week now.   secretary general of AP Government Doctors’ Association (APGDA) Dr P   said, “Since the last four years, from time to time, we have been giving representations to the government regarding our problems such as lack of timely promotions, recruitment and retirement issues, non-payment of salaries as per the UGC scale and so on. But the government has not paid any heed. We want the defective government order MS 163 pertaining to career advancement scheme for teaching faculty of medical colleges to be amended as well as increase the beds and sanctioned posts in different government hospitals. Before intensifying our protests, we wanted to discuss the issues with the government. But now that there is no health minister and a political rift has cropped up, it does not seem that things will get sorted soon,” he said.
 
 Added to this, the IMA doctors too have been protesting and took out a motorcycle rally all across the country to protest against the NMC Bill. Doctors consider the provisions of the NMC bill undemocratic, draconian and pointed out that the bill, if passed into a law, would have various negative fallouts.
 
 Dr P A Ramani, zonal secretary of IMA, AP said, “The Central government is pushing this bill on medical professionals and education replacing the partially elected body of MCI. NMC will be a nominated body of 50 members with only five practitioners as members in it for two years from five states at a time while 24 other states would go unrepresented. Remaining 45 non-medical professionals would dictate and decide the fate of the medical profession in the country, which is unacceptable.” 
 
 
