CHANDIGARH: The pressure of making the right career choice for a bright future fills up the students’ mind just after the board exams are over. With the results of classes X and XII being declared one after the other, career counselling experts say, to be able to excel, one needs to recognise his or her potential and invest his or her energy in developing skills accordingly. Awareness about career options available in one’s field of interest and the correct path to be taken is extremely important. Understanding cultural development and changing trends in careers and employment also assists in making the right career choice. Talking to TOI, the career counselling experts across the Tricity answers some of the common queries every student standing at this point of his or her career has.

 
 
 After Class X, it is the right time to choose the subjects that help students develop the skills that shall benefit them in their career choice. Career counsellor Manoj   says, “After 10th there are generally four core options available —non-medical, medical, commerce and arts. Some even opt for diploma courses while others who choose a stream, start preparing for competitive exams.” The subjects that one opts for must be of one’s interest and shouldn’t be forced upon. Taking up certain subjects should not be done under peer pressure or parental influence. It should be the student’s personal choice.
 
 
 
 
 Once Class XII ends, the race for college admissions begin. Students sit for entrances and struggle to attain the desired score and rank. “After 12th, students go for admissions to common courses like BTech, BSc, BCA, MBBS, BDS, nursing, law, BA, CA, BBA, BCom and mass communication,” says Shukla. However, there are many other fields apart from these mainstream options. In most cases, a certain degree course is opted for assistance in higher studies or for preparation of competitive exams like UPSC, HCS, PCS among others.
 
 
 
 After Class XII, children are exposed to an entirely new phase. They have ample options available may be as set goals or back-ups. Courses like that of air hostess training, commercial pilot training, pharmacy, hospitality, fashion designing, journalism, mass media and many other diploma courses in the field of IT, home science, music, design also exist, which are equally valuable and have lucrative future prospects. These off-beat courses are mostly risk-taking. But excellence and passion-driven people emerge as better professionals in these areas, than those who tread the mainstream path.
 
 
 
 
 “Failure in clearing entrance is a cause of either lack of interest or preparation. Those who lack interest, their parents shouldn’t force them to try for those tests again. Instead, they should allow them to pursue the course of their choice. Also, wanting to prepare for an entrance again should be the child’s choice alone. If he or she really wants to prepare again, nothing can hinder his or her path to success,” counsellor D S   says. Parents need to give their children the space to make decisions for themselves. Understanding a child’s potential and abilities is very important.
 
 
 
 
 All fields offer equal opportunities for career building and employment. Careers can be chosen in any field of interest. However, non-mainstream fields test a child’s determination, skills, ability and patience twice as much the other fields do. “Fields like music, dance, fine arts and drama involve a lot of struggle. Success in these fields doesn’t come easy. One needs to really stand out among the lot who are struggling find a footing in these fields,” says Parmar. As a matter of fact, even sportspersons struggle to come out as the best to be able to play at national or international levels. Such fields are often governed by tough competition.
 
 
 
 
 Social media and technological advancement have increased the public outreach and connected people far and near. YouTube channels,   pages bear testimony to the fact that how talent can be commercialised and publicised through social media. “Social media has opened new horizons for students. No doubt they can make their talent reach out to more people and earn recognition. One needs to really explore this field of study,” says Parmar.
 
 
 
 
 With technological advancement, many certified courses are offered online. Online courses engage a wide range of skill developers. From those who had to terminate their studies due to some reasons to those who want to get certified in their field of interest, online courses are accessible to one and all. Parmar says, “These courses target a large number of audience and are made for their convenience. The varied course choices that they provide a platform to many facilitating them to hold on to their passion.” These online courses also help women choose a career of their choice. Familiarising with a wide range of career options allows a person to make a precise judgement of his or her field of interest. Another benefit of these courses is that their certification helps to gain employment and some of them even offer on-completion placements to top performers.
 
 
 
 
 With the development of the society, mindset of the people has changed. Taking up career choices in fields like art, music, poetry, dance and drama are no longer looked down upon. “With the cultural development, platforms like that of slam poetry and micro-tale writing are also developing as career choices. Photography is another attractive career choice with sub-sections like wildlife photography, bird photography, fashion photography and others. Developing culture has given space to develop skills and creative thoughts into lucrative careers,” said Parmar.
 
 
 
 
 Women are usually associated with household chores and too often, their career choices are neglected. According to counsellor S S  , “Women need to analyse their potential. Online courses and choices should be made available to them so that they can develop skills in the field of their interest and at their own convenience.” Sometimes non-availability of good employment opportunities for women also brings down their morale. The gender-based difference in pay-package for the same work discourages the participation of women in career-building.
 
 
 
 
 Counsellors agree that potential cannot be weighed on the scale of marks. When it comes to making a career choice, interest should be the sole driving force. Parmar says, “Marks cannot determine what choice a student should make for his or her career. A career choice should only be based on one’s interest and ability.” He further criticised the prevalent study pattern saying that it focuses more on rote learning than skill development and understanding. Children’s participation in the race of marks often closes doors for potential development.
 
 
