KOLKATA: A special film festival and photo exhibition on the   Bangladesh Liberation War is being held in the city, hosted by Bangladesh’s ministry of information and organised by the Bangladesh deputy high commission.

 The festival will be held between January 5 and 8, to mark Vijay Diwas on December 16. Hasanul Haq Inu, Bangladesh’s minister of information, will fly down to Kolkata to attend the inaugural ceremony. Among the various films that have been lined up are ‘71er Maa Jononi’, ‘Swadhinota Amar Swadhinota’, ‘Ekatorrer Gonohotya O Bangabhumi’, ‘Lal Sobujer Sur’ and ‘Chiranjeeb Bangobondhu’.
 
 “Never before have we hosted such a huge exhibition of 300 photographs from the Liberation War in Kolkata,” said  , first secretary (press), deputy high commission for Bangladesh. “This is also the first time Bangladesh’s ministry of information is hosting a package of such an exhibition and film festival in Kolkata on this theme. The festival will be held at Nandan and Nazrul Tirtha. Apart from these films on the Liberation War, we might also screen some other films for viewers who are interested in Bangladeshi films in general,” he added.
 
 Nasir Uddin Yousuff’s ‘Guerrilla’, starring Jaya Ahsaan, will be screened. The film is an adaptation of the novel ‘Nishiddho Loban’ by Syed Shamsul Huq. The director, a Mukti Jodha, also relied on his personal experiences to make the film. Based on a story by Humayun Ahmed, Morshedul Islam’s ‘Anil Bagchir Ekdin’ shows how a Muslim man risks his life trying to save a Hindu youth from being killed by Pakistani troops during the war. Islam’s ‘Amar Bondhu Rashed’, a story based on the war, will be also be screened. Another interesting work is Shabnam Ferdousi’s ‘Janmosathi’, which depicts the plight of children born of the widespread rapes during the war.
 
 In the bouquet of films is Shameem Akhtar’s ‘Rina Brown’. Set against the backdrop of the war, the story centres on the romance between a young Christian woman and a Bengali man, and their budding romance over conversations about Bengali literary works. Incidentally, the title of the film derives its name from Suchitra Sen’s character in ‘Saptapadi’.
 
 
