AURANGABAD: The city could likely see disappointing results in the annual  . 

 The study, conducted as part of the Centre's Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, was carried out during a severe garbage crisis in the city. Fears remain that the   ( ) could take a hit in rankings. 
 
 The survey was conducted by a three-member team, across 61 wards and over three days - it concluded on March 8. Locations including schools, hotels, petrol pumps and gardens were inspected by the team, which evaluates sanitation services and their sustainability; outcomes of central cleanliness programmes; citizen connect; and visible impact on the ground.
 
 However, revised survey norms and the garbage crisis could dent AMC's already abysmal ranking of 299 on the nationwide list. 
 
 Officials from the AMC, while admitting unregulated waste had an impact on their performance, say they are expecting a "satisfactory" result. 
 
 “The garbage issue cropped up during the visit by central authorities. It was an inevitable situation we had deal with and it may cut a few points for us. But overall, we feel the local civic body did well in its annual exercise," additional municipal commissioner with the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation,  , said on Sunday. Bhalsingh added that the three-member team also focused on AMC's work during October to December last year. 
 
 But the garbage problem is still a highlight. Since February 16, Aurangabad has been experiencing severe problems related to waste. Trouble started after protests from residents of Naregaon, who objected to the dumping of city waste in their area.
 
 As per revised   norms, more weightage is given for smart processing and innovation in the disposal of solid waste. There's also negative marking.
 
 Weightage for simple collection and transportation of solid waste has been slashed 10% and the value has been divided and added towards smart processing and innovative disposal. Also, in order to rigorously test sanitation claims by cities, the survey has a 33% negative marking. So, if a civic body's claims have been found to be incorrect, officials can expect a 33% negative marking - besides zero marks.
 
 Aurangabad was one of 4,041 cities or towns in India which were set to be assessed under the ‘Swachh Survekshan-2018’. The results are expected in April.
 
 
