NEW DELHI: On Tuesday evening, police received a call from a man on Jaitpur Road in south Delhi about the abduction of his brother. Within 12 hours of being informed about this,   cracked the case and arrested a 23-year-old youth. The cops said on Wednesday that the young man had been charged with   and, on being released on bail, had sought out the teenaged survivor’s uncle for  . According to the investigators, the youth and two friends abducted the tyre showroom owner, shot him dead and dumped his body near Aligarh.

 
  
  
 
 Parvinder and his friends, one of them 20-year-old Vicky and the other a juvenile, have been arrested. Chinmoy Biswal, DCP (South-east), said that the two pistols used in the crime have been seized and the burnt car of the victim recovered.
 
 On May 29, a man called the police control room around 7.45am and reported that his neighbour, an autorickshaw driver, had told him that some men had abducted his brother in an Eeco car. A police team reached the spot to be further informed that the abducted man had been on his way to his tyre showroom in Jaitpur in his Santro car and had been waylaid by some men, one of whom had driven away the victim’s car.
 
 “We registered an FIR for abduction and formed eight teams under ACP Bijender Singh, SHO Sudhanshu Dhama (trainee IPS) and inspector Satish Chandra to pursue the case,” Biswal added.
 
 When the cops interviewed the family members, they discovered that the abducted man’s 17-year-old relative had filed a case of rape, poisoning and abduction against a man named Parvinder. The latter had since then been threatening the family to withdraw the case they had filed against him.
 
 The police detained Parvinder for questioning, but the 23-year-old tried to mislead the cops. There were discrepancies in the details he gave them about his location and movements at the time of the man’s abduction. The false leads were later contradicted by the analysis of his mobile phone location.
 
 On being confronted by the evidence, Parvinder broke down and confessed not only to the man’s abduction, but also his killing. The youth told the cops that the rape case was being heard in the   and the survivor’s uncle, as an elder relative of the complainant, was monitoring the developments on behalf of the family. Even though Parvinder was regularly pressuring and trying to influence the girl in the matter, she was not ready to retract her accusations. 
 
 Furious, Parvinder and his friends hatched a plan to get back at the family. They closely observed the daily movements of the uncle from the time he left for his showroom early in the morning to the time he returned home. They then procured pistols from a gun supplier. On Tuesday, they waited near   for the victim to show up. As soon as the man arrived, the trio overtook his vehicle and pulled him out of the car at gun point. 
 
 They bundled the man into their Eeco van and shot him dead near Palwal in Haryana. They drove his Santro car to Rasulpur village and burnt it. They then drove towards Aligarh and threw the body on the Kishanpur-Peepli road. Police later recovered the Eeco car used in the abduction from Neemka village, while the guns used in the murder were retrieved from the Agra Canal near Kithwari village in Palwal.
 
 
 
 
