GURUGRAM: Into the second week of this year’s   in New Delhi, and bumbling organisers had their first scalp — boxer   (16) of   — who had to leave the arena because he was deemed overweight. 

 The disappointed city boxer explained, “This wasn’t my mistake. I had applied to participate in the 52-54kg weight category. A day before the match [on Wednesday], my weight was checked and it came to 52.2kg. Without consulting or informing me, the instructor who was noting down the weights, recorded mine as 50Kg, and put me in 50-52kg weight category, even though I’m a national-level boxer and have always fought in the 52-54kg category.” But hours before the match, when the participants were weighed again, his weight again read 52.2kg.
 
 The list showed Jai had to fight a player from Punjab in the 50-52 kg weight category, disqualifying him from the category in which he was registered. “When I complained to the organisers about it, they had no solution. They kept saying this was not their fault, and I’d have to lose weight to fight in a lower category. How can I lose weight in a matter of hours?” 
 
 Jai had won gold medal in the CBSE national games held in Rohtak in 2017. The same year, he also participated in the national boxing championships in Guwahati. In 2016, he won gold at the state-level games. In all these competitions, he had participated in the 52-54kg category.
 
 Virendra Dangi, coach of Haryana’s boys boxing team, said, “The organisers who made the list made the blunder.”   organisers, though said it was not a mistake from their end, but accepted there was something wrong. “The draw was done a day ahead, on the basis of which the final list of players was prepared, and who would compete whom in which category was also decided. In this draw, coach of all states were present. Names of all players were rechecked. The mistake has happened because of instructors who were assigned to check,” said N K Bhatia, Khelo India in-charge. 
 
 The young boxer said the instructors were also from Khelo India, which is an initiative launched by the Union ministry of youth affairs and sports launched to bridge the gap in sports between the school and professional levels. “I was training for these Games the whole year. Now, a mistake by the organisers has cost me a possible medal and also the urge to participate in competition,” added Jai.
 
 
