NAGPUR: The state government’s ban on plastic carry bags, plastic cups, plates, spoons and flex may have hit the manufacturers of these products in the city, but it has generated a huge opportunity for cloth and paper bag manufacturers.

 “We have seen a sudden rise in the demand and if the ban is properly implemented, our business is set to grow 100%,” said Chhavikala Mendhe, who is one of the members of a self-help group, operating from Ravi Nagar, engaged in manufacturing of cloth bags.
 
 Bharati  , who stitches cloth bags, has seen the number of enquiries increase, but most of these enquiries do not translate into orders. Bhalerao, a partner in the self-help group, said most retailers are not very confident that the ban will continue. “They place orders for very small numbers like 50-100 bags, which will last them for only about a week,” she said.
 
 Shopkeepers, meanwhile, are seeking out manufacturers who can supply large quantities of paper bags as early as possible.
 
 Puspha Gadre of Apang Seva Niketan — an NGO in   — said demand for both paper and cloth bags has increased manifold. “Medical stores had switched to paper bags months ago. As for grocers, until last week when the ban was announced, only a few traders were making casual inquiries. Now, the demand has increased,” she said and cited examples of many super bazaars placing orders.
 
 Swachh Association’s president Anasuya Kale-Chhabrani said things are looking up for mass demand. “Only big retailers are willing to purchase the bags, which cost between Rs10 and Rs40 per piece, depending on the size and quality,” she said. “The association is getting a lot of calls from super bazaars and bakeries for both   for takeaways. But not from the citizens,” she rued and pointed out unless citizens come forward, the ban will not be a success.
 
 Leena Budhe, president of the city-based NGO — The Centre For Sustainable Development, feels the plastic carry bag ban will be much more effective if consumers, rather than vendors, are targeted. She and her fellow volunteers are trying to educate both buyers and vendors about the economic, environmental benefits of using cloth bags. She said small vendors who are already burdened with the procurement of their items for sale should not be additionally burdened with the task of finding biodegradable bags that are more expensive than plastic bags.
 
 Vendors, traders and grocery storekeepers complained about lack of options. Grocery storekeepers said majority of their customers still expect a plastic carry bag. They also pointed out that paper bags that are available are not strong enough to hold a large amount of groceries.
 
 Avi Agrawal of Purushottam Super Bazar said our outlets have already started using eco-friendly bags. “However, we are facing difficulties in procuring the stock of cloth and paper bags as there are no bulk suppliers in the region,” he said. Spokesperson from Haldiram's Food International Limited, Nagpur, said they too have started finding alternatives to replace the plastic bags.
 
 
