MALAPPURAM: In a major breakthrough in the investigation into the origin of the recent 'Janakeeya hartal' called through social media in protest against Kathua girl's murder, a special investigation team led by district police chief   arrested five people, including a former RSS worker, who allegedly started the campaign for hartal through WhastApp groups. 

 The arrested have been identified as Amarnath Baiju, 19, a native of Thennala in Kollam, who is suspected to be the key conspirator behind the hartal campaign, and Thiruvananthapuram natives M J Syril, 20, of Kunnappuzha, Sudheesh, 22, of Nellivila, Gokul Shekhar, 21, of Neyyattinkara and Akhil, 23, of Venniyur.
 
 According to police sources, Amarnath was involved in anti-RSS campaign through social media ever since his recent expulsion from the organization. Police suspect that the main accused, with the support of others, started the pro-hartal campaign through various WhatsApp groups with an aim to scandalize Sangh Parivar, which is already in the defensive in the Kathua issue.
 
 Malappuram DSP   said that Amarnath was creator and administrator of different WhatsApp groups named 'Voice of Youth' and Voice of Sisters' and it was he who started the campaign for hartal with the support of other accused who he had befriended through these WhatsApp groups. "After receiving overwhelming response to their call for hartal, the team created district-level WhatsApp groups across Kerala and launched an aggressive campaign," the   said, adding that police would probe whether they had any intention to create communal tension. 
 
 Police have already confirmed that a Class X student and a Plus-One student in Malappuram were the second administrators of two WhatsApp groups formed for the purpose in the district. 
 
 The district police chief said that the arrest of five was only 'a tip of ice berg' and more people would be taken into custody soon. "We have questioned a juvenile who coordinated the WhatsApp campaign for hartal in Malappuram and he would be taken into custody only after proper procedures from the part of child welfare authorities," Behera said. 
 
  
 
 
  IUML state general secretary KPA Majeed, in a statement issued here on Saturday, termed minister K T Jaleel's statement in Tanur issue unfortunate. "Jaleel's statement implied that the attack was against a certain community. However, shops of Muslims were also attacked. His statement has humiliated the communal harmony Malappuram is keeping intact. Of the total 19 shops, which were attacked during hartal, 13 were owned by Muslims," Majeed's statement said. 
 
 Meanwhile, RSS prantha karyavahak P Gopalankutty alleged that the home department was sabotaging the probe. He said one organization was behind the violent processions on the hartal day and slogans were against Hindutva forces. "This reflected in the violence on the hartal day. Police are groping in the dark," he said, adding that a section of the media was implicating RSS in the hartal.
 
 
