MUMBAI: The Mumbai-Delhi   will soon get its   cameras fitted in five coaches in a rake. These cameras will have high resolution and will capture images in the aisle and toilet areas. 

 There will be four cameras in each coach for passenger safety, an official said.The cameras are being imported and with high resolution for good clarity. "We have decided to install these cams in all Rajdhanis in view of the thefts in trains in the past,'' the official stated.
 
 The   has also refurbished the Rajdhani train - introducing a host of new passenger amenities to woo citizens.
 
 WR divisional railway manager   said that the Rajdhani has been refurbished at a cost of Rs 50 lakh per rake, specially in the wake of fierce competition from low-cost airfares. " Rajdhani is premier train and carries lot of prestige -- very convenient mode for people who travel to Delhi. Under Project Swarn, we want to improve passenger experience and provide additional amenities," he said. For example, there will be no gas cylinders as the cooking in pantry will be on electric. There will be anti graffiti coated designer vinyl wrap in the passage, entrance toilets to ensure nobody can write or deface the walls. There will be retro relective destination boards and coach number plates will ease out passenger woes of locating coaches in the dark. "Also berth/seat numbers will be prominently visible inside the coach,'' he said. 
 
 Passengers will no longer have control on the "night switch" in the   as these dim lights will be kept on throughout the journey__ and controlled by the train attendant. "This is in view of few past incidents of thefts wherein the thief managed to escape with luggage and valuables after switching off the night lights,'' Jain said. In both second and third AC coaches, the night visibility will ensure that nobody walks away with someone else's luggage. 
 
 The seating area and pantry cars have been made squeaky clean to give a pleasing ambience, better travelling experience and hygiene. "Beautiful paintings and photographs depicting monuments and cultural heritage of Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi have been put in coaches, there are LED lit photo frames and complete LED lighting for energy efficiency,'' he said. The first ever foot operated dustbins, branded big pillows and branded towels are being given to passengers in First AC and will soon be extended to other coaches in near future, officials said. 
 
 
