KOLKATA: Mohammad Shami’s wife   has filed a case against the   at   on Tuesday demanding Rs 10 lakh maintenance fee per month for her and her daughter.

 
  
  
 
 Hearing the case filed under Domestic Violence Act 2005, the third judicial magistrate of the   court asked Shami and others against whom the complaint was filed, to be present before the court within 15 days from the receipt of the summons and give their versions.
 
  
  
 “We approached the court of additional chief judicial magistrate who sent us to the court of the third judicial magistrate for a quick hearing. The magistrate heard our petition and passed an order show-causing the opposite party asking why an ex-parte order would not be passed against them if they don’t appear before the court within 15 days of receipt of the summons. The next date of hearing is May 4,” said Zakir Hussain, Jahan’s lawyer.
 
 Jahan had come to the court around 10.30am on Tuesday and filed the complaint against Shami, his mother Anjuman Ara Begum, his sister Sabina Anjum, his brother Md Hasib Ahamed and Hasib’s wife  . These are the same persons against whom Jahan had lodged a police complaint on March 8 at Jadavpur police station. Police had also started a probe dealing with sections 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 307 (attempt to murder), 376 (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison or intoxication with intent to commit an offence) and 34 (common intention).
 
  
  
 Police have already been to Shami’s village at Amroha and have spoken to his neighbours and some relatives but didn’t question Shami.
 
 “This case is different from the one we had filed before the police. Shami had not paid a single penny to Jahan since she had raised the issue. He had given her a Rs 1lakh cheque that later bounced. Now she has no money to pay for the monthly expenses,” the lawyer said.
 
 The lawyer even told before the court that Shami earns around Rs 100 crore per year and hence it would not be a problem for him to part with the money. “It is his duty to take care of the family and pay for the wife and child’s expenses. Hence we demanded the money — Rs 7 lakh per month for Jahan and Rs 3 lakh per month for the child,” the lawyer added.
 
  
  
 In the petition, Hasin has also sought protection from not being driven out of the Jadavpur apartment and also pleaded the court to pass an order so that she didn’t lose custody of the child.
 
 “I am at a loss from all ends. I had been to Delhi to meet him and was there for seven days but I can never forget the way he behaved with me. He also met the daughter only once. Hence I demand the maintenance fee as he is not taking any of our responsibilities,” Jahan told TOI at the court on Tuesday. On being asked if she is following  , she said, “I have stopped watching his game. I was never a sports buff and after the incident I have lost interest in the game.”
 
 
 
