Mysuru: As the countdown to the Swachh Survekshan begins in the earnest,   D Randeep on Monday urged the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) to activate at least four zero waste management plants (ZWMs) to reduce dependence on the Vidyaranyapuram Sewage Farm. “We need to focus on distributing waste to other zero waste management plants to efficiently manage garbage,” he said. 

 Expressing his worries over construction debris being dumped within city limits, MCC commissioner G Jagadeesha said, “Construction waste is being dumped within city limits, along the arterial roads of the city that may cost Mysuru heavily in the Swachh Bharat rankings. We will hence install closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras on the Bengaluru-Mysuru Road and Ring Road.”
 
 Echoing Jagadeesha’s concerns about unloading of construction debris within MCC’s purview, Randeep said, “Besides spoiling the cityscape, it washes away the efforts of the MCC.”
 
 Affirming Mysore Urban Development Authority’s (Muda) commitment to help the city reclaim the top spot, the agency’s commissioner Kantharaj said, “We have instructed CA site owners to clean up their vacant sites or face action. Construction debris dumped on Ring Road is being cleaned too.”
 
 Mooting the idea of installing GPS on vehicles that transport construction debris, Jagadeeesha said, “We plan to make GPS devices mandatory for vehicles that ferry construction debris since it will make it easy for us to track them. If they are found to be dumping it anywhere other than the waste management plant for construction waste, they will be penalised. MCC owns a 25-acre plot at Kesare that can be converted into a construction waste dumping site”
 
 Meanwhile, Randeep sounded confident of the city’s infrastructure helping the city’s ratings in the Swachh Survekshan. “Mysuru has all the facilities that help maintain cleanliness. We should attempt to use the infrastructure to reclaim the Cleanest City tag,” he said.
 
 Randeep instructed all officials to leave no stone unturned to ensure Mysuru was on top of the rankings this year.
 
 
