Right before the finale day,   contestant  's brother Siddharth joined us for a live chat on Facebook.

 Vikas faced a great deal of trouble in the initial few weeks because of the sour relationship he shared with 'Bhabhi Ji Ghar Par Hain' actress  . Clarifying his brother's stance, Siddharth said, 'I am close to Vikas and we speak about most of the things. I had known about Shilpa leaving the show. Vikas was the channel head and wasn't happy about it. He had no personal vendetta against her. For the whole thing to turn around and come on to him was disappointing. First five weeks in   11 prepared Vikas for the journey.'
 
 On being asked to view Vikas' journey not as a family member but otherwise, Siddharth said, "As an objective viewer, I'd say he could have been stronger and reacted better initially. Right now, he is perfect."
 
 Siddharth also talked about Vikas' journey and struggle to reach the position he is at, today. He said he was angry when people accused his brother of casting couch and felt guilty for pushing him to do Bigg Boss. He further elaborated on how Vikas was a self-made man, who worked his way up in the industry by sheer hard work. "It is not pleasant to see your brother being defamed on national television for his work ethic, looks or sexuality. But then there were happy, crazy moments as well," he said.
 
 
  
 About Vikas and Priyank's changing equation in the house, Siddharth explained, "It is a game. People behave differently in the house, unlike who they normally are. It got to their relationship. When Priyank went back, he relied more on Hina and Luv. I am a close friend of Priyank, so I was really disappointed. But I would let it go as it was done in the name of the game."
 
 For Siddharth, Vikas has even been loyal to people who have back-stabbed him like Puneesh and Luv.
 
 Termed as a mastermind in the game, Siddharth said, "Vikas is a genius. He has been intelligent since school. He is creatively inclined and has been successful in a short span of time because of his brain. He is overtly emotional and that is what makes him an artist." He also added that playing the victim card after losing a task could be his game plan or also because he is over emotional.
 
 Other than Vikas, Siddharth said he sees Hina Khan as the potential winner for her participation in the tasks. Even though he knows people don't like her for the person she is, he feels she has conviction, aggression and the will to win the game.
 
 Siddharth did not hesitate to clear the air about Ekta’s support to Vikas. He said, "You are aiming at two people who have a great body of work. You are defaming him and discrediting the hard work he has put in the show. I don't think Vikas needs help like that and neither would Ekta do such a thing."
 
 Watch the chat here: 
 
 
  
  
  
 
