Digaria (Churu): The condition of two victims—Oma Ram (25) and Kalu Ram (30) who were given medicines— is still unstable. They are complaining of vomiting, pain in abdomen, fever and frequent motions is worsening their health. The victims returned home without any medical test which could have ascertain the damage clinical trial has caused to them.

 A thin and pale, Ram is a sole bread earner in his family of five members. He is a daily wage labourer and in the past two months barely worked for 10 days was on cloud nine to have chosen for a work in Jaipur. He was fascinated by the remuneration of Rs 500 per day including food and stay.
 
 He was among those who left hospital in the last due to strong influence of medicine given to him. Brought out from the hospital with support, he struggles to stand on his feet even after three days have passed to the incident.
 
 On Monday evening, he was again rushed to the community hospital in the Bidasar (10kms away from Digaria) after he incessantly vomited. “Something is wrong in my body since I had that medicine. I cannot afford to be ill as my family will starve,” said Ram, outside the hospital in Bidasar.
 
 His repeated request to admit him in the hospital was turned down by the doctor, Rajesh Gupta, at the health centre. He said, “I have checked his pulse which is normal. He has to visit headquarter or Jaipur for proper diagnose of his body.” 
 
 Sawar Lal (30) is another victim who is yet to recover from the dose of a medicine given to him on April 19. Father of two kids is living in a dilapidated two room set is scared of his future. He fears that medicine has caused damage in his body. “If anything happens to me who will look after my two girls. I will never sleep in peace until those involved in this crime brought to justice,” said Lal.
 
 He from the past two years have been saving money to build a toilet at home and to claim the government aid of Rs 12, 000 but unemployment is deterring him to accomplish his aim. “I feel bad as my daughters and wife goes out to our neighbors place to defecate. I want to recover soon so that I can construct a bathroom,” said Lal. 
 
 Ironically, Churu is the second district declared ODF in Rajasthan. However, the house of Ram exposes the grim reality of how governments twist and turns the facts to get the acknowledgement. Digaria village sarpanch Ummed Singh has confessed that 60% of houses have toilets while the rest defecates in open or have made alternate arrangements. 
 
 
