NEW DELHI: As PM 
  , Indonesia sought support from Indian authorities for its bid to become a non-permanent member of UN Security Council next month. 

 
 Modi left for his 3-nation tour of Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore saying in his departure statement that his visit will give another boost to India's Act East Policy.
 
  
  for India's support to its candidature and the success of his visit could well hinge on India's response, diplomatic sources said. President Joko 'Jokowi' Widodo and the Indonesian foreign ministry have turned the campaign for non-permanent membership of the   into Indonesia's top foreign policy priority.
 
 It won't be an easy choice for India as Indonesia is locked in a direct fight with the Maldives for the UNSC Asia-Pacific seat. However, despite having earlier committed support to Male, India is doing a serious rethink on its position ahead of the voting at the UN scheduled for next week.
 
 
 
 
 For India, Maldives in the past few years has proved to be a soft underbelly in the Indian Ocean in the manner in which it has sought to undercut India's authority by ramping up ties with China. 
 
 "There had been ups and downs in the past, there are (ups and downs) now also. But ties with Maldives are not broken and cannot be broken," foreign minister Sushma Swaraj had said in her annual press conference on Monday when asked about the Maldives.
 
 A vote for Male might also be seen as an attempt to embolden a regime which defied all constitutional norms in the manner in which it recently implemented the Emergency. Often, in fact, its behaviour has bordered on downright insult for India like in the way it refused recently to renew the Letter of Agreement for the choppers gifted by India to Male.
 
 Indonesia needs votes from around 129 countries for membership and it seems to already have support from close to 120. What is also playing on India's mind is that all Asean nations are supporting Indonesia and a vote from India will help it stand in solidarity with its Asean neighbours. The crucial UNSC vote also comes at a time Modi himself is looking to convince Asean about how indispensable southeast Asia is to India's foreign policy. His decision to participate in the Shangri La dialogue in Singapore is also seen in that light.
 
 As the largest Asean nation, with a population of 270 million, Indonesia can facilitate India's Act East Policy like no other. The government sees Indonesia as an important partner in counter-terror operations and maritime security. Indonesia is also an important trading partner in Asean. The bilateral trade volume between the 2 countries increased from US $ 4.3 billion in 2005-06 to US $ 17 billion in 2016-17. 
 
 
