TRICHY: Gundur jurisdictionally situated outside the city limits was always looked up as a part of Trichy city, yet the sufferings of locals go unnoticed. Routine waste collection activities in Gundur have been defunct for the past few months. And as the domestic, as well as commercial waste, get dumped over the roads and vacant lands, plastic waste is now invading the two major water bodies in the village.

 With population little above 10,000 and 2,500 households, Gundur in Trichy outskirts has been home to colleges and industries. While the waste collection in   limits is regular, few meters away from where the corporation limit ends, Gundur panchayat face severe criticism from residents for being apathetic in   (SWM) activities. 
 
  For the past few months, sanitary workers were regularly absent in collecting waste from households due to which the residents themselves have been burning the accumulated mounds of waste in public spots. “Several vacant plots in the panchayat have become mini dump yards. Plastic waste carried away in the gusty wind is filling an empty Gundur tank that was recently desilted jointly by government and public,” T Nedunchezhian, Gundur resident working in a city college said. Sanitary condition is no different in nearby hamlets namely Ayanputhur, Thiruvalarchipatti, Ayyampatti and   falling under Gundur panchayat. Locals lamented that they have been going through the unsanitary condition for more than a month now.
 
 Sources in Gundur panchayat said that contract between panchayat and 13 SWM workers had lapsed about 45 days back, and they were awaiting directions from DRDA to appoint new SWM workers to do away with the waste collection process. 
 
 “We are expecting the issue to settle down in a week. Soon a new set of SWM workers will be appointed by the panchayat,” an official source with Gundur panchayat said. The panchayat also maintained that efforts would be taken to sell non-biodegradable waste including plastic waste dumped along   road to scrap dealers for a price.
 
 
