Had Chennai girl   bowed to pressure and become part of a rat race to finish as the school ‘topper,’ she might not have been able to live her dream of becoming a professional sailor. Having represented India in seven countries,the 20-year-old said she had more knowledge and exposure, and had no regrets that she chose to break away from the norm and pull out of school when in Class VII.

 Back in 2012, when Janaki decided to drop out of school, her decision was metwithscepticism. “Schools wanted their name to be associatedwith my achievements but did not support when I required time off to train. So I decided to study at home and completed my 12th certificate two years ago through the NIOS board,” said Janaki, who is now pursuing BBA through correspondence. 
  
 
 A decade ago, when Janaki was growing up, dropping out of school was a taboo. Big schools were the most sought after and homeschooling was considered detrimental. Cut to 2017, a homeschooled student made it to the MIT. And not only that, smaller schoolswhichhavelesser number of students have generated a lot of interest. Over the years, more students have begun exploring unconventional methodsof learning as parents are more open to providing their children with life skills rather than a conventional education.
 
 Statistics from the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) board shows that the number of out-ofschool learners taking up Class X and XII certificate exams was a little more than 500 when the Chennai regionalofficeopenedin 2013. This figure has multiplied by nearly 15 times to 7,000-plus candidates in 2017-18 indicating a shift in mindset.
 
 NIOS regional chairman P Ravi said the board received more enquiries this year but there was still a need for change in mindset regarding open schooling.“Afew years ago,schoolswere hesitant to include NIOS board as an option but today at least two to three schools are approaching us in a week,” he said.
 
 Schools that focus more on conceptual learning said parents were increasingly open to different ways of learning during the last few years. Schools like Vruksha, Pathashaala and Abacus which limit intake to 30 students per classroom encourage students of different ages being grouped together to promote cross learning.
 
 Co-ordinator of  , Nandini Joshi, said the outlook of parents had changed in the last five years. The main reason for this shift is because parents want their children to enjoy learning, she said. “Today there is more awareness of alternative learning leading to more interest,” she said.
 
 However, Joshi said, while many parents gave freedom to children up to the primary level, many hesitated to take it one step forward and went back to prioritising marks at middle school.
 
 Tania S, whose children study in Abacus School, said she didn’t want her son to learn in a   “Here, there is no no talk about competitive edge, no exam till Class VI. There is learning through activities and children move to the next level once the concepts are grasped,” she said.
 
 Rohit J, a working professional,decided to home school his children to equip them with life skills. Even though a schedule is followed to cover topics in a particular week, it is not restricted to teaching one subject at a time, he said. “It was such a struggle to convince my parents when I started homeschooling the kids six years ago. Today they too help me in the process,” he said.
 
