PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation’s decision to ban private programmes at   may be rolled back following strong opposition from the political leaders, barely five days after the civic administration announced that only government events would be allowed at the historic venue.

 The civic body published a notice in local newspapers on Friday, informing the public about the decision. But politicians opposed the move and demanded its withdrawal. The general body of the   ( ) would take a call on any such restriction, the leaders stressed.
 
 Mayor   said, “We are not in favour of the decision to stop the programmes. The decision to allow the events at this venue was taken by the general body. Any move to change it will have to be approved by the general body.”
 
 She said the mayor’s office would write to the commissioner’s office, urging the civic chief to withdraw the decision. “If the administration wants to put any restrictions on programmes at Shaniwarwada, the reasons will have to be discussed and debated before the general body,” she added.
 
 Municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar told TOI, “We took the decision for the larger public good. If the elected members want otherwise, the civic administration will act on it and go back on the decision. The directives of the general body of PMC will be followed.”
 
 A source said PMC had decided to stop private functions at Shaniwarwada after the controversy caused by alleged inflammatory remarks at the Elgar Parishad, a public meeting held at Shaniwarwada on December 31, triggering violence at Koregaon Bhima.
 
 A request from the traffic police seeking restrictions on events at the venue also prompted the PMC’s decision. The traffic police claimed that the programmes at the venue were leading to traffic snarls on Shivaji Road, Bajirao Road and lanes adjacent to the Shaniwarwada. It also caused traffic jams in nearby Peth areas.
 
 Shaniwarwada, having historical significance, is one of the popular places in the city for events. Besides music concerts, political rallies and TV shows are organized there frequently.
 
 
