MUMBAI: Four decades after losing the malaria-free status to rapid expansion and exodus of a massive construction workforce, Mumbai's dream of eliminating malaria seems closer to becoming a reality once again. 

  In 2017, the city completed three years of keeping the annual parasite incidence (API) to less than one case per 1,000 population. An API of less than one is considered the stepping stone towards elimination and Mumbai currently stands at 0.4 cases per 1,000 inhabitants. The final journey to achieve a malaria-free status will begin after successful elimination of the disease. 
 
 Over the last five years, there has been 17% to 22% year-on-year decline in malaria cases in the city . Last year, for the first time in a decade, deaths dropped to a single digit of six; a long way from its worst outbreak of 2010, when nearly 80,000 cases and 145 deaths were reported.
 
 
  
 "Our journey towards elimination has begun," said Dr  ,   joint executive health officer. According to BMC, only G-South ward, that covers Worli, Prabhadevi and Lower Parel, recorded more than 1,000 cases in 2017, while E (Byculla) and F-South (Parel) wards detected over 500 cases each. As many as 20 wards (see box) recorded between 100 and 250 cases. R-North (Dahisar) was the first ward to report less than 100 (79) malaria cases. "Now, a majority of malaria cases are confined to three wards, G-South, F-South and E, having an API of 2.4, 1.5 and 1.3 respectively. Our biggest challenge is that all the environmental factors go against these wards.   has the highest population density, while G-South and F-South have seen maximum development, besides having vast open government properties conducive for mosquito breeding," he said. 
 
 Despite these challenges, elimination is a possibility now, said former scientist Dr CJ Babu, who has authored a book on the transformation of Mumbai into a malaria endemic zone. "Thanks to Britishers and their endeavour to keep the city free of malaria, every fortnight, overhead tanks would be checked for larvae breeding. Entomologists managed to do an equally efficient job after Independence till the 80s when the disease entered with the growth of the satellite towns, including Navi Mumbai," he said. Things only went downhill with the construction boom of the 90s.
 
  Physician Dr   recalled a rare malaria case at   in the mid-70s and the frenzy it created. "The patient had come with a history of stroke which was triggered by malaria," he said. Doctors, he said, have played a big role by treating the disease aggressively. 
 
 "We don't want to lose our control over the vector now. We have begun nano surveillance as a pilot project in G-South by dividing the ward into 12 pockets," said  , adding that the insecticide and health departments constantly exchange information about breeding sites and positive cases to tackle it simultaneously. Elimination of malaria in Mumbai will spell good news for the state as the city alone contributes to 34% cases and over 40% deaths.
 
 
