New Delhi: An   and a   have become the latest   of  . Money was   from their   through   even though they hadn’t misplaced their  . 

 The Army officer said in his complaint that he had his card with him when Rs 40,000 was withdrawn from his account. “We got to know about withdrawals around 8.30-8.35pm when we started receiving messages from the bank. There were four transactions of Rs 10,000 each within five minutes after which the process stopped since it had reached the limit,” the victim told TOI.
 
 The officer then contacted his bank and blocked the card. He approached the police the next day. “When we reached the police station, there was another person having an account from the same bank who had lost his money in a similar manner,” he added.
 
 In his email to police commissioner Amulya Patnaik, the MHA official stated that he had gone to his hometown in Jharkhand for his mother’s funeral when he got a message about Rs 31,500 being deducted from his account. The victim has a savings account with Central Bank of India’s branch at Khan Market. The money was allegedly withdrawn from ATMs after which the victim blocked his card.
 
 Police have filed both cases and have begun investigations, they confirmed. But no arrest has been made yet. The Cyber Cell of Delhi Police, which has been recently brought under the Special Cell, is yet to be roped in.
 
 Although no concrete conclusion has been reached yet, preliminary probe indicates that the victims’ cards may have been cloned by crooks in the days preceding the crime. Police have asked them for details of transactions. The footage of the ATMs from where the money was withdrawn is being scanned for clues. According to the police, it is being probed if low-level employees of the banks were in connivance with the crooks. 
 
 Cloning has become the latest headache for Delhi Police. The crooks have been stealing card data of people either by skimming their card at retail stores or petrol pumps or by hacking into their accounts. 
 
 The stolen data is then copied onto a blank card — through its magnetic strip — using imported skimming machines and software. Later, the crooks either look for merchants who agree to let them swipe their cards and give them cash in lieu of commission, which ranges from 20 to 30%, or they obtain PINs of cards through dubious means and withdraw money from ATMs.
 
 
