HYDERABAD: Telangana minister Jupally Krishna Rao’s son Arun and some officials of the   (SBI) have been under the scanner of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which has been probing their role for allegedly using bogus documents to avail of loans from the bank.

 TOI had, on Monday, reported that Arun and Varun, minister Jupally’s sons, had defaulted on a loan of over ?60 crore that they took from SBI in 2013 by pledging their properties as collateral security.
 
 Sources said the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) had received a complaint against Arun and some SBI officers in connection with illegal money transactions. “It has been alleged that you have succeeded in availing loan worth crores of rupees from State Bank of India in connivance with the bank officials on the basis of fake and bogus documents,” said a notice served by the CBI on Arun in August 2017.
 
 CBI’s deputy superintendent of police  , who was assigned the enquiry, had asked Arun Jupally to appear before him on August 18, 2017, for clarification on issues.
 
 Sources said doubts were raised about the value of properties pledged with the bank for taking the loan, especially the four-acre property located at   in Kismatpur village of Rajendranagar mandal. SBI could not auction off the property as the land was under litigation.
 
 “While the market value of the land is ?78.48 lakh, it was shown that Arun Jupally purchased it for ?3.3 crore, which raised eyebrows. Generally, people try to purchase land at market value but in this case the purchase value is more,” said a former SBI officer.
 
 Meanwhile, Congress leader A Revanth Reddy and spokesperson   alleged that chief minister   was not taking any action against ministers facing charges of corruption and other malpractices.
 
 “Former deputy chief minister Rajaiah was removed on allegations of corruption, but till date the government has not revealed what the charges were. The government is shielding ministers who are facing corruption charges,” they said, adding that TRS party leaders are maintaining good relations with the Centre mainly to escape from the clutches of CBI in various corruption cases.
 
