Panaji: The   (DoE) will enfore a stricter scrutiny process to grant approval for   in the state. This decision follows a closer scrutiny carried out by DoE for new schools this year, in which 12 applicants were found to neither have the necessary land nor the premises to show the inspection team.

 
  
 
 Close to 75 proposals to open a new school were submitted to DoE for the academic year 2018-19. 
 
 “Some of the applicants had applied to open a primary school, high school as well as a higher secondary school in three separate applications. And they do not even have premises yet. They just seem to be trying their luck and are waiting to see if we will permit them to open a new school. They want to get a permission and arrange for premises later,” director of education GP   told TOI.
 
 Terming the 12 applications as ‘bogus’, the director said that some applicants failed to respond to calls made to carry out inspection of their premises for a school. “Some responded and said they don’t have premises to show, and told our officials to take an appropriate decision on their application,” said Bhat.
 
 He said that over the last two decades, DoE has seen at least eight schools that were opened in Goa not being able to obtain or retain the affiliation of a national or international school board.
 
 “Many new schools mushroom claiming to offer an extraordinary curriculum. But at least eight such schools eventually lost their affiliation to national or international boards in the last twenty years. The schools are not able to meet the infrastructure requirements of these boards. Some of these boards need the school to have a playground of 10,000 sqm. Can these new schools meet these requirements? And they have then turned to the state board to get its affiliation,” said Bhat. 
 
 He said that such careless attitude by those applying to open new schools in the state has led the DoE to apply stricter scrutiny norms while proposals are submitted.
 
 As of now, the state has permitted two new Marathi medium private primary schools to commence from the academic session 2018-19. Another nine proposals for new schools are under the state’s consideration. 
 
 Two high schools are also likely to get the nod to open from the DoE.
 
 
