JAIPUR: If you have watched ' ', the 2011  , you might relate to   The story of a cricket-hating father and his son who just loves the game. The son’s secret trysts with the game and his efforts (including lies) to hide it from his father. And finally, the father’s pride when the son makes it big.

 
 Replace Gattu (Akshay Kumar) with Kulwant, Southall with Jhunjhunu and the reel-life drama becomes a real-life stunner. In fact, Kulwant’s journey from a village blacksheep to the glitzy world of IPL has more twists and turns than Gattu had to endure in 'Patiala House'.
 
 
 “My father hated cricket and had ordered that I should not waste my time playing the game,” Royal Challengers Bangalore’s Kulwant told TOI. “He wanted me to get a government job or join the Army.” The medium-pacer, a native of Rajasthan who plies his trade in Delhi, is in his second season in the IPL. The first, last year with Mumbai Indians did not provide him with too many opportunities to show his skills with the ball, but made him an instant hero back home in his village in Jhunjhunu.
 
 
 “It was only after I visited my village as a Mumbai Indians player that my father came to know I had defied him to play cricket,” Kulwant said. “He wasn’t happy. After much persuasion, he gave me six months to try luck in the game and then get a job to help the family’s finances.”
 
 
 Kulwant, 25, latched on to this window of opportunity to go on to play in   for Delhi. The next time he returned to the village, his father was a proud man. This year, he was bought by RCB for Rs 85 lakh. The journey from Jhunjhunu to the Mumbai Indians dressing room was much more difficult than Guttu’s from Southall to Lords. He would play in local tournaments (after telling his parents that he was going out on errands), earning up to Rs 500 as share of the prize money if his team won. The road then led him to Goa (“first time I stepped out of my village”), where he had to work as a waiter. “We had to take some loan for my elder sister’s marriage and in order to repay it, I had to take up this job.”
 
 
 Soon, he was fed up and was back home, unemployed and a burden on his father. A call from a friend who was enrolled in a cricket academy in Delhi was the turning point in his life. “He wanted me to join, but I knew my father would not allow me,” Kulwant said. “So I had to lie again. I told him that I had been offered a job in Ahmedabad with a transportation company. I never went to Ahmedabad and instead, I landed up at the academy in Delhi.”
 
 
 The lie continued for the next eight months, during which he got noticed enough to interest Mumbai Indians’  
 
 
 
 
 
  And when his picture with Gautam Gambhir reached his village via social media, Kulwant knew time had come for the truth to be told.
 
 “Now, my family has accepted that I can be good at cricket and I can freely concentrate on my game,” Kulwant said. He averages 140kmph. “If I can perform well in Ranji Trophy and IPL, maybe I will get a chance to play for India.” Now, the father too has this dream.
 
