KOLKATA: Kalpana and   have been spending sleepless nights at an EM Bypass hospital for the past four days, ever since their children—Riyan (3) and Manisha (9)—have been admitted there with severe injuries following an accident at   last Sunday.

 With numerous small clots in his brain, Riyan is still on ventilation. Doctors tried to bring him out of ventilation on Tuesday but had to put him back. Manisha’s condition has, however, improved a bit as she has regained her consciousness and has been put on liquid diet.
 
 Ever since their hospitalization, the kids’ mother, Kalpana, has been keeping constant vigil beside their beds—P07 and P05—sitting on a stool through the nights. Her husband, Subrat, a software engineer, spends his nights in the ground-floor lobby, having cups after cups of coffee so that he doesn’t fall asleep and misses a crisis call or alarm from either doctors or his wife on the third-floor ICU. “Till Sunday afternoon, we were one happy family and see now. My daughter is still critical and I have no clue when my son would regain consciousness,” said Subrat. The couple hasn’t returned to their   home since Sunday. The family had been to Eco Park, where the kids were on an inflatable ride, which was swept away and hurled to the ground during a storm. Riyan fell headfirst onto the concrete pathway, losing his consciousness. “A six-member doctors’ team will take stock of Riyan’s condition on Thursday. They said the clots are too small to be operated upon. But his fever receded in the afternoon,” said Sourav Mukherjee, Subrat’s colleague.
 
 From Odisha, the Nayaks settled down in the city four years ago. While Manisha studies at DPS New Town, Riyan was about to start his play school. Nayak’s relatives have flown down from Odisha but none could send the couple home even for a few hours. “Subrat is worried if anyone from the ICU calls him or makes an emergency announcement when he is not around. His wife needs medical attention but she can’t be moved from beside the kids’ beds,” a relative said.
 
 Minister  , who visited the hospital on Wednesday, offered all kinds of help to the family. “He assured us of support from the government. He said the CM was keeping a close watch on Riyan’s development,” Mukherjee said.
 
