JAIPUR: The   police on Sunday arrested seven illegal miners near   and seized 11 tractor-trolleys and machines during a raid. The Choth Ka   police station had received a tip off about illegal mining of sand ( ) being carried out on the banks of Banas, a police team then raided the place and found sand being extracted and loaded onto trolleys.

 The suspects began to flee from the spot but were arrested and taken to the police station. “The accused are residents of nearby village who were found to be involved in mining. They load sand onto trolleys which are then sent to other parts,” said SHO Ram Singh  .
 
 He added that the mining department and officials of the transport department were also informed about the raid. “We timely informed the mining and transport officials. The mining department will look into the illegal mining whereas transport officials will make a challan according for illegal transportation of the sand,” Yadav said.
 
 Sawai Madhopur district has been the hotbed of smuggling of banned sand which had recently witnessed a local sarpanch being killed by alleged illegal miners. As per estimates, the mafia excavates sand from the river bed in Tonk and Sawai Madhopur districts and transports 800 to 1,000 trucks daily in violation of the apex court order.
 
 As sand commands an exorbitant price in the grey market, these trucks are overloaded beyond capacity. Other than creating a major environmental problem, the illegal and indiscriminate sand mining in   River is causing a huge loss of revenue for the state exchequer.
 
 “Since there’s no stringent action, every truck has an overload of at least 25-30 tonnes above the capacity. It’s a huge revenue loss daily for the state government as earlier you could impose a royalty of Rs 35 per tonne in Tonk district,” the mining department source said. Ever since the ban, middlemen, transporters and police have forged a nexus to profit from the sand crunch, the armed cops and mining officials have been deployed at many routes to ensure that smuggling could be stopped.
 
 
