CHENNAI: In 2016, the state directorate of medical services booked a Namakkal-based doctor for not maintaining documents for the ultrasound machine in her clinic — a minor offence under the law to check sex-selective abortion. But it turned out to be a breakthrough of sorts, when the doctor volunteered to turn an informant.

 Since then, nearly a dozen doctors, including two in the government sector, have landed in officials’ net for undertaking sex-selective abortion. However, the health department has now realised that a network of doctors, village health nurses and community health workers is not enough to crack down on the well-oiled mafia of quacks and doctors who are skewing sex ratio in the state. Officials have now turned to the public for help. 
 
 To begin with, the   has released a poem – of an unborn child talking to her mother -- appealing to the masses not to engage in female  . The poem, penned by an unnamed poet, was circulated by officials in Whatsapp groups. It also requested the public to contact the government’s medical and counselling helpline 104 if they come across people engaging in the practice. 
 
 The directorate is also maintaining a register of pregnant women who volunteer to act as decoys. “Until now, we mostly had our own women staff volunteering to be   for our crackdown. Now we have a lot more women from the general public and police personnel signing up,” director of public health K   said. 
 
 At least four women are selected from each district and trained to be decoys. DMS superintendent   said all these women are in their second trimester, when the sex of the foetus can be identified. 
 
 Officials said they felt the need to counsel these women before including them in the crackdown team, following a recent instance of a decoy developing cold feet in the midst of an operation in  . “She was four months pregnant. She had initially agreed. But when we were on our way she got scared,” said Kamalakannan. Based on information given to the health department through its network, officials send these women to clinics under the guise of wanting to determine the sex of the foetus, which is banned under the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act, 1994.
 
 The intensive drive comes at a time when the state is seeing a dip in the child sex ratio at birth — the number of girls born per 1,000 boys. The ratio dipped from 923 in 2011-12 to 911 in 2016-17, according to the TN Health Management Information System.
 
 
