With no discernable wave or issue that has a statewide impact, the Karnataka assembly elections is narrowing down to three local factors: caste, candidate and cash.
 
    national president Amit Shah and his   counterpart Rahul Gandhi may call it an election of opposing ideologies. But voters in each of the state’s six defined regions that ET spoke to, pointed to anti-incumbency issues which sitting MLAs from all three parties –– Congress, BJP and Janata Dal (S) –– are likely to face.
  
  “It is not the Siddaramaiah government, which has done quite well. That is not the decider, nor is it the Modi government and their promises,” voter Bhaskar Patil told ET in Ballari city. “Finally, everyone will vote on the caste factor, along with cash factor. Issues like whether the local candidate is accessible or has done anything for the constituency will become key,” he said, summing up the mood in the state.
  
  The anti-incumbency factor is likely to hit Congress the most, as it has 123 sitting MLAs, with the additions like the seven JD(S) rebel MLAs, besides former BJP MLA Anand Singh and independent Ashok Kheny, who are considered “tainted” due to cases against them.
  
  “The party has inherited the anti-incumbency factor that these people face and has given them tickets, denting their own anti-corruption plank,” a BJP leader told ET. "It will help us," he added.
  
  The Congress is fighting elections on two fronts: against the BJP in North and central Karnataka, besides Bengaluru city and the coastal region; and against the JD(S) in South Karnataka. There are some seats where the contest is only between JD(S) and BJP, though these are few and on paper, they are triangular.
  
  Krishna Byre Gowda, cabinet minister in the Siddaramaiah government and the party’s acknowledged data-cruncher, told ET: “In general, a triangular fight helps us. In straight fights, it is tougher.” The number of such triangular seats is an estimated 50 out of the total 224 assembly seats. All the rest are straight fights.
  
  JD(S) state president HD Kumaraswamy said his party was fighting in about 45 seats even in North Karnataka, where they won just five seats in 2013. “It is triangular in those seats. In South Karnataka, the main fight is between us and Congress. We are concentrating only on about 150 seats this time,” he added.
  
  Internal surveys by the RSS had pegged the BJP's seats to about 75, but the party is expecting this to change after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's rallies. "We will will have no difficulty in forming government," BJP CM candidate B S Yeddyurappa said.
  
  
 
  There is a Hindutva narrative in small pockets of the state, where chief minister Siddaramaiah is seen as “pro-Muslim.” A Hindu voter, who declined to be named, in the volatile Bankapur town of Shiggaon in Haveri district, currently held by BJP’s Basavaraj Bommai, told ET: “We don’t want to vote for the current government, even if they have performed well on most fronts. This is because Muslims feel safe in this regime and we don’t.”
  
  It is, however, not an overriding factor in most constituencies. Voter Anand of Savanur town, also part of Shiggaon, said: “I like our local candidate and will vote for him. But I am against his party (BJP) for the way they keep social and communal tensions simmering.”
  
  BJP is still seen as a Hindu, pro-upper caste party in most parts of the state, despite Shah reaching out to leaders of several small communities. Shah has carefully worked out a Lingayat-Scheduled Tribes combination by projecting BS Yeddyurappa and B Sriramulu, leaders of the two communities, as the party’s faces for this election.
  
  However, even in ST constituencies like Molkalmuru, an old Congress stronghold that Sriramulu is contesting from for the first time, the votes are divided on party lines and the candidates’ pluses and minuses.
  
  “Sriramulu is a big leader of our community and we all respect him. But will he be available for us to approach as our MLA? He will live in his big house in Ballari. Who will take care of our problems, come to our small weddings and death ceremonies and be with us,” asked voter L Thippeswamy at Molkalmuru town.
  
  
 
  The effects of Siddaramaiah’s five-year crafted strategy of AHINDA (Kannada acronym for minorities, backward classes and Dalits) are not clearly visible but occasionally show up when voters discuss matters at the grassroots. Analysts have long pointed out that Siddaramaiah voters are the “hidden” kind who don’t speak out but quietly vote for him, even as the more vocal upper castes –– Vokkaligas and Lingayats –– berate him in public.
  
  Voter Hanumantappa in Hullur village of Chitradurga assembly segment, a Dalit Madiga who sells greens by going from village to village, told ET: “We are solidly behind Siddaramaiah. The richer castes criticise him for the welfare measures he has given the poorer castes. We know how much we owe him and that will be seen in this election.”
  
  Siddaramaiah’s Anna Bhagya (free rice) scheme is his biggest selling point, even though BJP has consistently said that most of the money for it comes from the Centre. “He has fed us for five years. May he be blessed,” said cobbler Kolarappa and his disabled friend Boraiah at Chitradurga town.
  
  
 
  PM Narendra Modi is the other factor that is working on voters this election. While his rallies are creating ripples, some of the awe that swept him to power in 2014 remains. Voter Mallamma in Gulledagud town of Badami assembly segment, which Siddaramaiah is contesting, said: “I wish Modi had been our candidate, I would love to vote for him.”
  
  Others like Malleshappa and Shakarappa in Shivaganga village of Holalkere assembly segment, said: “We are voting for the BJP candidate because of Modi. We don’t care who it is. ”
  
  There are, however, other voices like shopkeeper Shantamma in Nargund town in the assembly constituency of the same name, who are upset about GST. “I voted for Modi, but see how he has ruined my business. I am extremely unhappy,” she said.
  
  Groups of youngsters, several of whom are graduates, hang around shops and government offices in several towns and villages of the state, unhappy about being unemployed. “All jobs have dried up and demonetisation has destroyed a lot of our aspirations,” said Parasurama, sitting in a protest with five of his friends outside the gram panchayat office at Churchigundi in Shikaripura constituency, where Yeddyurappa is contesting.
  
  Unlike Modi, Rahul Gandhi does not have much traction, though some, like Giriyamma in Kanakagiri town, want Congress to win in his name. Vegetable seller Savita in Srinivaspura town, however, said: “I want the Congress to win for Indiramma (Indira Gandhi). I don’t know much about the grandson.”
  
  There is a   simmer in North Karnataka, where the Veerashaiva community is furious with the Congress government for giving minority religion tag to Lingayats, keeping them out. The BJP and RSS workers are fanning this flame and if this becomes bigger, the Congress is likely to be impacted in about 50 seats.
  
  
 
  The other factor is Vokkaliga consolidation in South Karnataka, where Kumaraswamy is extremely popular. There is an undercurrent, even in North Karnataka and the hilly regions of the state, of a “fondness” for Kumaraswamy and the Janata Dal (S), but voters like Qutbuddin Mullah in Kagwad said: “We know they won’t come to power on their own and will only go with the BJP to form the government, so we can’t vote for them.”
  
  Voters in Mandya, Mysuru and parts of Chikballapur, Tumakuru and Kolar districts, though, are blindly in favour of Kumaraswamy. “At any cost, I want to see Kumaranna as CM,” said voter Molle Gowda at Gunjral Chatra village in Siddaramaiah’s Chamundeshwari constituency in Mysuru.
  
  Voters seem quite convinced that this time the assembly will be hung, giving the JD(S) the status of king-maker. “It is JD(S), not Siddaramaiah or Yeddyurappa or Modi, who will call the shots. So, it is best we vote for Kumaranna,” driver Harish said at Chikkaballapur town.
  
  Bhaskar Patil from Ballari city, said: “It will all be decided based on who spends more on the nights of May 10 and 11. The Election Commission is trying its best, but there is no stopping the flow of money and inducements. Since there is no major issue in this election, cash will be the final winning factor.”
  
