CHENNAI: When Seetha Suryanarayanan established  ,  , she was determined to provide a safe and nurturing environment for children. That's why last June, she ensured that all the staff were trained to handle medical emergencies. 

 "It is a government requirement that any teacher handling a child be equipped to handle emergencies. But as an organisation, we have stressed on it and the staff in all our 27 centres have been trained," says Suryanarayanan, founder and MD of Kanchana Paati who got a team from SAGA (Save A Life, Give A Life) to train her staff.
 
 SAGA, an initiative which teaches ordinary people lifesaving skills, was launched by Dr N  , director, Critical Care Services, Apollo Hospitals, in 2008. So far, they have trained more than 50,000 people.
 
 "Usually, when a medical emergency arises, people are at a loss. But the right action taken can make all the difference between life and death," says  .
 
 The seeds of SAGA were sown in 2007 when he established India's first simulation-based healthcare training centre, The Academy of Clinical Training (TACT). "I realised that the healthcare here is purely doctor driven, where nurses would only follow instructions and not give their suggestions," says Dr Ramakrishnan who decided to create an environment where there is small-group interactive learning.
 
 But he realised that it's not enough just to train healthcare professionals. "When a patient is brought to a hospital, he will get good care as trained professionals are there. But, at the site when a medical emergency occurs, people don't know what to do or end up doing the wrong thing," says Dr Ramakrishnan.
 
 And that's where the need for a 'social doctor' arises. "You may not have the stethoscope or the medicines, but if you have the knowledge, you may be able to help the person till professional aid arrives," he says.
 
 For instance, malls and airports now need to have   (AED) but few people know how to use it. "When someone has a cardiac arrest, the heart rhythm becomes abnormal so you need to shock the heart. The AED usually has instructions on how it can be used," says Dr Ramakrishnan.
 
 A team of 10 healthcare professionals from TACT has been conducting classes at schools, colleges, and residential complexes. "With the help of videos we teach what to do and what not to do when someone collapses in front of you, and has a cardiac arrest," says Dr Ramakrishnan. 
 
 
