NAGPUR: The Vidarbha Cricket Association’s (VCA) Jamtha cricket stadium has been in use for national and international matches, along with a club house for recreational or commercial purpose, for last 10 years. It is only now that the   has sought an occupancy certificate, which is mandatory before bringing into use any construction.

 VCA submitted the application seeking occupancy certificate to Nagpur Metropolitan Region Development Authority (NMRDA) on March 20. NMRDA is yet to take any decision on the application.
 
 NMRDA sources told TOI the VCA application will be kept pending for some queries. “A letter seeking replies to queries, and some more documents, will be sent to VCA soon,” sources said.
 
 TOI spoke to officials of NMRDA, and Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ), and two famous architects, all of whom said occupancy certificate is mandatory for bringing any structure into use, as per the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act.
 
 Activists TH Naidu and Prashant Pawar, also president of Jai Jawan Jai Kisan, have raised a question on lack of action by NMRDA and police department against VCA for years. “VCA itself has now proved that the stadium lacks occupancy certificate. We have been complaining about this for last two years. NMRDA initiated action against some residential structures, but kept mum whenever we raised issue of Jamtha stadium. Collector office and police department have even given permission to host matches for last 10 years,” they said.
 
 VCA’s application says occupancy and completion certificate were sought by way of abundant precaution, to avoid further inconvenience during international matches. “In the recent past, and more particularly during international matches, the issue regarding occupancy and completion certificate crops up every time,” VCA said.
 
 VCA, in the letter undersigned by CEO  , also said they ‘did not require occupancy certificate’. “Construction of the stadium was undertaken and completed in 2008. Plans for construction were dully approved by the town planning department on July 7, 2007, and further sanctioned by the collector. All necessary clearances were also obtained. As per the collector’s non-agriculture (NA) order dated October 6, 2005, the premises was to be used for the purpose for which sanction was granted i.e. cricket stadium and club house. As per our understanding, and even in view of the communication dated October 6, 2005, addressed by the collector, there was no need of obtaining a completion certificate as the premises were to be used as per the sanctioned plans and for the purpose for which the sanction was granted. The only condition was that after completion of the construction, intimation of the same was to be given to the Gram Panchayat, which was duly given,” VCA said.
 
 Earlier, the stadium had no fire prevention and safety systems. TOI had exposed the brazen violation in October 2013, following which VCA installed the system and also obtained permissions from Maharashtra Fire Services on October 10, 2015.
 
 Quoting   information, TOI had on January 6, 2016, highlighted the fact that the stadium’s building plan was not sanctioned by collector, and just recommended for sanction by the state’s town planning department. Activists, including advocate Ankita Shah and Jai Jawan Jai Kisan, had time and again alleged that the stadium lacked occupancy certificate, environment clearance, and   consent to operate.
 
 DCP (crime branch) and Hingna police had directed VCA to ensure various types of clearances, including occupancy certificate, before hosting matches last year.
 
 
