JALANDHAR: Election of mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor of the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation (JMC) would be held on January 25. Well-placed sources in the Congress revealed that names for these posts have almost been finalized.

 According to the letter issued by the municipal commissioner, the first meeting of the House for oath taking ceremony of the newly-elected 80 councilors would be held at the district administration complex and then immediately after the election for mayor and deputies would be held.
 
 Sources in the Congress revealed that Jagdish Raj Raja is likely to be picked up for the top post. He is not only the senior most among all the councillors but also enjoys backing of three out of four MLAs of Jalandhar whose constituencies fall in the MC area.
 
 He happens to be the only councillor who has won for the fifth time. He had won the first time in 1991 when Jalandhar got the municipal corporation. Raja was leader of opposition in the last term and his wife Anita Raja, is a third time councillor now, and she also remained senior deputy mayor in 2002-07.
 
 MLAs Pargat Singh, Rajinder Beri and Bawa Henry have also been backing him while Jalandhar West MLA Sushil Rinku wanted the top office for his wife Sunita Rinku, party sources said. However, exit of   from the state cabinet has weakened Rinku’s lobbying capacity as for the last couple of years he had become Rana’s protege.
 
 Surinder Kaur, a fourth time councillor, is likely to be the senior deputy mayor due to twin reasons – her seniority and her being a Scheduled Caste. For the post of deputy mayor names of Simarjit Singh Bunty and Balraj Thakur are doing rounds. However, sources revealed that as party leaders also want to strike a balance on community lines, Bunty can bag the post after the two upper offices going to a Hindu and a Dalit.
 
 
 
 
 Amritsar: The city will get its eighth mayor on January 23. However, it is not going to be easy for the Congress to pick a mayoral candidate given the caste and religion factor with many seeking to have a Hindu candidate others want a Jat Sikh and a few want to have a dalit mayor.
 
 Officially, however, the party leaders are denying that these factors are going to play a part. Refuting that caste or religion would be a factor, Amritsar district congress committee president Jugal Kishor said that the city would get a deserving mayor. “Final decision rests with CM  ,” he added.
 
 Sources said that cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, who had been assigned the task to monitor the Amritsar mayoral election, would hold a meeting with local   on the Monday evening.
 
 A few days ago, almost all the probables were camping in Chandigarh and Delhi lobby for the top civic posts. Some of name in discussion include: Rajkanwal Preet Singh Lucky, Mamta Dutta, and Karamjit Singh Rintu.
 
 Meeting in Patiala today to decide names
 
 Patiala: The new House of the corporation is going to hold a meeting after over a month of elections held on December 17, 2017. There is likely to an interesting race for the post of mayor, deputy mayor and senior deputy mayor between the   assembly segment represented by CM Amarinder Singh and Patiala Rural segment being represented by health minister Brahm Mohindra. 
 
 There are 60 wards in Patiala. Out of these, 32 wards fall in Patiala Urban, 26 wards in Patiala Rural, while the remaining two fall in Sanour segment. Patiala had elected 59 Congress councillors and one from the SAD.
 
 The newly-elected members of Patiala Municipal Corporation (PMC) will be sworn in on Tuesday and immediately after that election for the mayoral post will be held.
 
 Sanjeev Sharma Bittu, who had remained the leader of the opposition in PMC during the last SAD-BJP tenure, is the front-runner. However, there are some other councillors who have been old workers of the party and have been elected to the house several times.
 
 Other councillors including Kamlesh Kumari,   Jogi, Naresh Duggal, Krishan Chand Budhu and Harvinder Singh Nippy are also in the race. Krishan Chand has been elected as a councilor for five times whereas Kamlesh Kumari is the wife of K K Malhotra, a district Congress president. Joginder Singh Jogi is said to be close to  .
 
 “Sadhu Singh Dharamsot has been appointed observer of the Patiala. He will be presiding over the meeting on Monday. Senior Congress leaders are also expected but not CM. Former Union minister Preneet Kaur will be there at the meeting,” said district Congress chief K K Malhotra.
 
 The corporation elections in Patiala had witnessed a violence following which cases were registered by the police against the workers of SAD and in one case the Congress worker who allegedly demolished the EVM machines. At one booth where the EVM machine has demolished the polls were held again giving victory to the SAD candidate.
 
 
