MUMBAI: The BMC waste-to-energy plant at the Deonar dump may still be unable to see the light of day, but   in Bandra is ready to light the way.

 Aimed at creating a zero-garbage area, the project by the Pali Hill Residents Association (PHRA) to convert up to a tonne of locally collected   into   and power for 68 street lamps launches on Sunday.
 
 The Pali Hill area comprises 78 buildings and 23 bungalows, some of which are owned by prominent personalities like actor Rishi Kapoor and lyricist Gulzar.
 
 The project site is the Pali Hill Water Reservoir. “One of the biggest challenges for us was getting land even though the plant required only 100 sq m area,” PHRA secretary Madhu Poplai said. 
 
 Poplai said the technology used for the project is the same as the one in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s constituency of Varanasi. 
 
 “The BMC and the local MLA and MP have been very helpful in ensuring that the process gets off the ground,” Poplai said. 
 
 
  
 
 The on-site work started in April 2016. As the project required substantial investment, the association had to look for some help under the concept of corporate social responsibility (CSR). 
 
 The locality has been segregating its wet and dry   for a while now. 
 
 “We have already tested the facility and it has been successful too,” said Poplai.
 
 H-West ward officer Sharad Ughade said it was the first area in his jurisdiction to go zero-garbage. 
 
 “Waste reduction almost to the tune of one metric tonne a day would be a big benefit,” he said. 
 
 He said the ownership of the Pali Hill reservoir land that was used to set up the plant would remain with the BMC, as made clear by the municipal commissioner.
 
 Local MLA Ashish Shelar, who facilitated funds under CSR, said he wished the unique model would be taken up in other areas in his assembly constituency. 
 
 “This is our way of starting the celebrations of the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi,” he said. “We wish to take up many more such projects. I would also demand that the BMC give some form of incentive to those taking up such works.”
 
 
