VELLORE: Bike-borne   snatchers have a free run in Vellore. 

 This time, they   away a four-sovereign   chain from a 42-year-old woman on the Chennai–Bengaluru National Highway on Sunday night. The victim sustained minor head injuries after she lost balance and fell from   she was riding with her husband when   pulled her chain.
 
 The incident took place along the NH 48 near Perumugai at about 7.30pm. Hasumala, of VOC Nagar in Sathuvachari, and her husband Kumar, 50, were returning home on a motorbike after offering prayer at Ratnagiri temple.
 
 The robbers attacked when the two were passing through Perumugai village. Hasumala was admitted to the Government Vellore Medical College Hospital. She was discharged on Monday.
 
 The Sathuvachari police registered a caseand launched an inquiry to identify the robbers.
 
 It may be recalled Mallika, a 57 year-old health inspector, attached to the Primary Health Centre at Banavaram, succumbed to the head injury she sustained after she fell from the bike when two-bike borne robbers snatched her gold ornament.
 
 The incident occurred on March 20 when the victim was travelling as a   rider along with her husband Veerasamy. The couple was heading towards their house in SIPCOT in Ranipet. She died at a private hospital in Chennai on March 22.
 
 SP P Pakalavan said they have been taking preventive measures such as vehicle check across the district simultaneously to nab habitual offenders and also making preventive arrests. He also said they have arrested two people involved in the incident that led to the death of Mallika. They were identified as Mahi (alias) Mahendran, 27, of Walajapet and Kathavarayan, 31, of Banavaram. 
 
 However, police sources said they are facing difficulty in cracking the chain snatching cases. The surveillance mechanism in Vellore city, Arakkonam town and other sub-divisions were not put to use properly to check such crimes.
 
 Chain snatching and dacoity cases are on the rise. From March 7 and 14, three cases of dacoity reported in Arakkonam sub-division. 
 
 
