SURAT: Investigation in the rape and murder of the 11-year-old girl, whose body was recovered from Pandesara area on April 6, has revealed how the prime accused Harsayai Gurjar crossed all limits of brutality before allegedly killing her. 

 Police found that her private parts were badly ruptured due to insertion of a wooden object like a rolling pin. Gurjar confessed to police that he inserted the wooden object in private parts and also thrashed her with the stick that left 86 injury marks on her body. 
 
 Police are also investigating the role of other family members of Gurjar since his wife was present in the same home where the girl was murdered. Police are also checking if the wife had also thrashed the girl. 
 
 Gurjar was arrested by the city’s detection of crime branch ( ) on Saturday and produced in a local court on Sunday. He was remanded to police custody till May 3. Police requested custody of the accused to investigate that how he murdered the girl and her mother.
 
 “We are trying to confirm if the girl was raped but it is clear that some foreign object was inserted in her private parts. We have taken the custody of Gurjar from Ahmedabad crime branch,” Satish Sharma, city police commissioner, told TOI.
 
 “Even if rape is not proved in the medical report, the case will be considered as rape as per the law since the victim is a minor,” said Sharma.
 
 “Gurjar is not confessing of raping the girl but admitted to brutalizing her. The injury in her private parts was so critical that it could kill a child. However, she died of strangulation,” said police.
 
 Badly decomposed body of the girl’s mother was found from Pandesara on April 9 and police is getting DNA profiling test done confirm that their relationship. Gurjar told police that he killed the mother in a car while bringing her to city from Kamrej in Surat district. He told police that he killed the girl since she had informed neighbours about her mother’s mother.
 
 "Since March 20, when the girl's mother was murdered by Gurjar and Hari Om, the minor was confined in the former's elder brother's room. She was subjected to extreme sexual torture and beaten several times a day so that she doesn't open her mouth," a senior Ahmedabad crime branch official told TOI. 
 
  According to Ahmedabad crime branch sources, Gurjar’s accomplice in crime, Hari Om is absconding and a manhunt has been launched to nab him.
 
 
