AHMEDABAD: The state government has made no changes in the upper limits announced earlier for primary, secondary and higher secondary schools. The maximum fees for these were set at Rs 15,000, Rs 25,000 and Rs 27,000 per year, respectively. The government raised the cap for science stream higher secondary schools to Rs 30,000. 

 Schools will now be required to submit applications for charging higher fees than the cap to the zonal fee regulation committee by March 14. 
 
 The education minister Bhupendrasinh   clarified that this was the only cut off and schools seeking higher fees would have to approach the fee regulatory committee, which will be headed by a retired high court or district judge.
 
 The   on February 1 directed the state government to fix fee caps for private schools in a month's time after hearing all stakeholders. After private school managements challenged the   high court order upholding the Gujarat Self-Financed Schools (Regulation of Fees) Act for fee regulation, the apex court also asked the state government to reconstitute fee fixing committees and include a retired high court judge.
 
 The government then formed a committee headed by the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board and the report was submitted to the government of February 22. The government, after considering the cap, on Wednesday published the notification.
 
 Chudasama said that committee did not find it suitable to change the cap. He said that at science schools, administrative and laboratory expenses are excluding other expenses and hence the committee decided to increase the cap for science schools by Rs 3,000 to Rs 30,000. The other caps remained unchanged.
 
 Based on the order of the apex court, eight schools made representations in person while several schools sent representations by email. The committee received over 5000 e-mails. 
 
 School managements had asked the committee to consider an upper limit ranging between Rs 25,000 and Rs 65,000 while associations of parents asked the committee to not increase the limit and continue with the Rs 15,000, Rs 25,000 and Rs 27,000 caps.
 
 
