Vrundan Bawankar, 30, has a dream of converting the school that she runs in Pauni into a strong edifice. Not just structurally, but also by giving the children a good education and helping them build character. She is keen to empower the village so that there is gainful employment and no migration Recently when Vrundan Bawankar invited a swish set of people at Chitnavis Centre to tell them about her initiatives at Pauni tehsil in Bhandara district, she had not imagined that their response would be so warm and rich. Even before she ended her power point presentation on Pawan Public School, the only English medium institution in the small village, run by the Gram Vikas Sanstha of which she is a trustee, she had over Rs96 lakhs in her kitty for constructing a campus of her dreams. The phone didn’t stop ringing for the entire day after as there were many calling her not just to donate but even to solicit help to raise funds for their projects. But its still a long road ahead says the 30-year-old who has been working in the village since she was 21. “I need Rs8 crores to fully realize my dream of building an eco system for this village which will include the school, sports facilities, vocational training centres and develop organic farming along with its allied businesses,” says Bawankar. It may sound ambitious, but Bawankar is made of tougher stuff. With a Bachelor’s degree in computer science, Bawankar won her laurels as the best NCC cadet in India in 2009. “It was during that time when I was being invited by schools to address students that my father asked me to visit the school in Pauni which he and six others had founded,” she says. Once there she was appalled by the lack of discipline, lack of punctuality and kids dancing on Bollywood numbers at the school concert. “When we returned to Nagpur I had an argument with my father over this. My mother interrupted and asked me to take things in hand,” says Bawankar. So the legacy of 227 students, 16 teachers and a school up to Std 8 was handed over to her. “Being the best cadet, I had the privilege of direct entry into the armed forces and I was contemplating which wing I should join at that time. But what started with a once a week visit to Pauni soon changed to thrice a week and I was totally involved in this job,” she says. Bawankar started with enforcing punctuality. “Teaching village children in English was a very tough thing too. I did away with workbooks and brought in text books which were pictorial so that kids could learn by relating to the pictures,” says Vrundan who visited schools across India to learn about teaching aids. The slates and abacus were brought back and wooden tiles with lines and shapes carved on it were given to pre-primary children to practice on with a blunt pencil. “Parents prefer to send their children to our school as we teach through different activities like making pre primary students separate mixed grains filling water in small bottles to increase their concentration,” says Monali Wankhede, the headmistress. Today the school employs 40 teachers, all from the village, has 632 students and is till Std 12. “We get children of farmers, labourers and of class II to IV government employees. 60% of the children pay fees, 40% are studying free and we give admissions under RTE too,” she says. From the two girls who appeared for Std X in 2011, the school threw up a district topper in 2014 and this year 43 students have appeared for Std XII exams. “The school makes learning easy, there are two teachers in every class and students are not allowed to take private tuitions as teachers and students both are made to do hard work. So even though the building is in very bad shape I have still put my children here,” says Sangeeta Mundle, a parent. And it is the dilapidated condition of the building which is a big cause for concern. “It is falling apart and unsafe. During monsoons the roof leaks and kids have to sit in the class wearing raincoats so I want to shift the school to the new campus at the earliest,” Bawankar says about the 6 acre land on which a science centre has already come up. “We collaborated with Pratham Education Foundation to construct this place where children from the entire village can come and learn the fundamentals of science,” says Bawankar. Besides education there is also this larger purpose to check the exodus from villages to cities. “I am trying to create employment here to stop this,” she says speaking about the pen project which her Trust has taken up. “We have 26 women earning around Rs7,000 per month making pens from newspapers. This is our effort to reduce use of plastic and create employment.” “I make 100 pens per day and earn Rs2.50 per pen,” says single mother Pratibha Bhure. “This work has helped me to educate my two children and run my house too.” “The price of pen is Rs10 of which Rs2.50 goes to the one making it, Rs2.50 towards the cost and Rs5 goes to the building fund. Over the last 4 months we have raised Rs55 lakh through its sales,” says Bawankar who represented India at International Visitor’s Leadership Programme for Young and Emerging Leaders in USA recently.