GURUGRAM: The Haryana government’s four-year-old pilot programme — to offer government school students preparing for focused IIT JEE coaching in school, in collaboration with  , an NGO — has again borne fruit. 

 Six students of Government Girls Senior Secondary School in Jacobpura — the sole school in the state chosen under the pilot scheme — cleared the JEE Mains exam this year, whose result was released on April 30. And the icing on the cake is — all of these students come from desperately poor families. 
 
 The programme, which was launched in 2013-14, had 31 students, 11 of whom cleared the  . In 2014-15, seven of 26 cleared the exam, while in 2015-16, the score was six of 31. Avanti was initially given a three-year contract, which ran out last year, though the contract has now been renewed, and the programme is about to be expanded. Under it, the government provides space, while corporates provide funding under CSR. Specialised teachers take classes in the morning for the science subjects, mathematics and English, along with IIT alumnus.
 
 Every year, the education department conducts an entrance test for students in the district who are interested in cracking the IIT JEE. Principal of the Jacobpura school, Madhu Bala, said, “Students who could avail this facility were selected in a state-wide test.” Sarita, a chemistry teacher at the school, said, “Only 31 candidates were selected for coaching this year, of which, 23 were boys and the rest girls. The chosen boys were specially admitted to this girl’s school to avail the tuitions.” Not a single penny was charged from the students, who still have to appear for the JEE Advanced exam to finally get an engineering seat.
 
 Akshay Saxena, co-founder of Avanti, said, “We’re running this programme in partnership with the government. Last year, we didn’t have funds for it, so we didn’t induct a Class XI batch. But we’ve now secured a grant.” Ram Kumar, the district education officer in Kaithal, said, “Till now, coaching for IIT was being given only in the Jacobpura school. From this year onwards, it will be offered in eight different districts.” All students who have cleared the JEE Main come from very poor families. But all of them were good performers in school exams. 
 
 Rajan Kumar Singh, who got an all India rank of 7,331, has faced tough times. “I live in a one-room rented flat. My father is an electrician. He barely manages to make both ends meet. I’ve seen days when there was no food at home.” Rajan said he wants to become an engineer and change the way his family lives. Ravi Kumar, who got an all India rank of 15,961, said he was always a bookworm. “My father drives an auto. But I want to become an engineer.”
 
 Kunal Aggarwal, who ranked 25,410, said, “We’ve never had enough at home. Both my parents are working — my father is a salesman, my mother works in a local shop. My family could never have afforded coaching for IIT. When I came to know the government was providing coaching to students from economically weaker sections, it opened a window of opportunity for me.” Shivam Aggarwal, who was ranked 64,000, said, “I used to study for 12-14 hours every day. My mother stitches clothes. I have three sisters to look after.” A consistent high performer, Shivam had scored 90% in Class X and 86% in Class XI. 
 
 The chosen students got tutored for four hours daily by teachers from Avanti. Rahul Sharma, whose all India rank is 1,40,000, said, “The coaching helped us clear our doubts. We were given study material to take home. Tests were held periodically.” Sharma said he has always been interested in science. “My father is a carpenter. We can’t afford coaching,” he added. Bhavneesh Poonia, who got a rank of 2,17,000, said, “We were given video lectures and that something extra which one needs to crack JEE.” Poonia’s father is a mechanic. “I know what all my father has undergone to make what I’m today. I want to become a software engineer,” he said. 
 
 
