KANYAKUMARI: The cook of the Government Adi Dravida Department welfare hostel at Kuzhithurai, accused of sexually abusing nine minor boys of the hostel for nearly three months, was arrested by the police on Thursday.  , 42 of Ponmanai near  , was booked under 10 sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and section 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code by the Kuzhithurai All Women Police. He had also assaulted one of the victims with a spoon, causing a deep cut on his forehead.

 The accused was booked under sections 7 (non-penetrative sexual assault by touching with sexual intent), 8 (punishment for sexual assault), 9(i) (committing sexual assault causing grievous hurt, bodily injury or sexual organs), 9(l) (committing repeated sexual assault), 9(m) (committing sexual assault on child aged below 12 years), 9(p) (sexual assault by a person in authority of a child at the place of stay), 10 (punishment for aggravated sexual assault), 11(i) (showing gestures or body parts or using obscene language) and 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) and 17 (punishment for abetment for sexual assault) of POCSO Act, 2012.
 
 The case was registered based on a complaint lodged by the warden in-charge of the hostel, John Kennedy, while statements of eight victims were recorded by the police. Vishwambaran was arrested at the Thuckalay bus stand, while the police also launched a search for Wilson, 52 of Kuzhithurai. N Sreenatha, Kanyakumari district SP said that efforts would be taken for speedy filing of chargesheet in connection with the case to help the victims get justice.
 
 Meanwhile, officials of the district child protection unit (DCPU) who inspected the hostel said that there was no need to send the boys away as the hostel was safe for them after the arrest of the abuser. “However, we have given a few recommendations to the district administration, Kuzhithurai municipality and Adi Dravida Welfare Department for upkeep of the hostel to make it conducive for students,” district child protection officer (DCPO) S Kumuda said.
 
 On Friday, a team of medicos comprising doctors, counsellors and a psychiatrist will be visiting the hostel. “They will be conducting physical examination of the victims, treating them for physical injuries and giving them counselling as they were sexually, physically and psychologically affected,” the DCPO said. They also requested Kuzhithurai municipality to clean the unhygienic hostel premises and remove the liquor bottles and tobacco products used by Vishwambaran.
 
 Kumuda said that they had also instructed the district administration to ensure that such incidents didn’t repeat. The DCPU has suggested displaying mobile numbers of the hostel wardens, providing suggestion box and first aid kit besides providing indoor and outdoor games to ensure recreation facilities to the boys.
 
 
