CHANDIGARH:   chief minister Captain   Singh said his Delhi counterpart and AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal’s apology to SAD leader Bikram Singh   reflected his political inexperience. It also exposes Kejriwal’s desperation to lighten the burden of defamation cases filed against him before the next Lok Sabha elections.

 Speaking at an event in New Delhi on Saturday, Amarinder said the AAP convener has always been jumping here and there. “I don’t know why he does that but this is no way for a chief minister to behave, irrespective of his lack of experience,” he said. 
 
 Amarinder said Kejriwal apologized to Majithia for linking him to drug trade but the move backfired. Saying that AAP had lost ground in all states, the Punjab chief minister said no government could function in isolation and Kejriwal had isolated himself completely. He said AAP MLAs were disappointed and were looking for alternatives to safeguard their future. It was a decline that has happened over a period of time, he added. 
 
 Talking about the anti-drug   in Punjab, Amarinder said the crackdown had been successful, given the number of arrests and seizures of drugs and weapons. A few big fish ran away but would eventually be caught, he said, adding that there was massive pressure on drug smugglers. 
 
 The chief minister also accepted that despite the decline in the number of farmer suicides in Punjab, the situation remained grim.
 
 Amarinder presented a resolution on farmers at the plenary session of the All India Congress Committee on Saturday, citing a host of factors causing distress among the farming community. He said farming had become non-remunerative and it was not possible for small farmers, who constituted the bulk of the community in Punjab, to survive.
 
 He also attacked the Union government for its failure to pay minimum support price for crops. With small farmers unable to afford tubewells, Punjab was headed for a major crisis, which is why he felt ashamed to penalise them for stubble burning, said Amarinder. 
 
 Admitting that Punjab contributed to Delhi’s pollution, he made it clear that the problem originated in Pakistan. He also lashed out at the Centre for its refusal to shell out Rs 100 per acre for crop residue management.
 
 
