CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh police’s special investigation team (SIT) on Friday received a hard rap on its knuckles from the Punjab and   high court for the way it was investigating the Haryana judicial services exam paper leak of last year. The court went to the extent of telling the cops that they were virtually conniving with the accused.

 The court was upset over the way the SIT had shared statements of witnesses recorded under Section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) with the accused on the directions of the trial court, without appealing against the orders before the high court.
 
 The scam had hit headlines last year after a resident of   filed a petition before high court seeking a criminal case into the exam paper of the prestigious services leaking. An internal probe by the high court had found that its own registrar of recruitment, Balwinder Kumar Sharma, was responsible for leaking paper to one of the candidates. Later, a case was registered and an SIT constituted to investigate the case.
 
 “What was the purpose of constituting SIT if you have to work in such casual manner,” a full bench of the high court asked the Chandigarh police. “Why have you handed over the statements of the witnesses to the accused in compliance of the trial court order without availing the right to challenge it in the high court? What was the pressure?”
 
 The bench, comprising Justice Rajesh Bindal, Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice G S Sandhawalia, wondered what was left in the trial when all statements recorded under Section 164 had been handed over to the accused.
 
 “It appears you are also involved in it. Your connivance has been proved that without challenging the order you supplied the copies of the statements to the accused. Difficult to digest that you were under so much pressure that statements were handed over to the accused,” observed the bench questioning SIT's role.
 
 The court also wondered why the prosecution was not handled by an officer of the level of a district attorney before the trial court.
 
 The bench has now directed the Chandigarh police to file an affidavit explaining the reasons behind it not appealing the orders of the district court. The case will come up for hearing on Wednesday.
 
 
