Dharwad: Faced with the challenge of shrinking strength in government schools, the education department is striving to attract children to its Kannada medium primary schools by launching several new programmes. While last year it was Akshara Pallakki, this year it is ‘Akshara Bandi (Letter Cart).

 Under the   programme, the department had asked teachers to identify children who had kept away from enrollment in the school’s jurisdiction and ferry them to the school in decorated bullock carts on re-opening day (Tuesday).
 
 Zilla Panchayat president Chaitra Shirur formally inaugurated the programme at the government primary school in Gulagajikoppa on Tuesday. ZP CEO Snehal Rayamane, additional commissioner of public instruction Major Siddalingayya Hiremath and other officials were present.
 
 After entering the school, the students and parents were informed about the government’s facilities like free textbooks, school bags, uniform, mid-day meal, milk, scholarship and bicycle. At the end of the day, various cultural programmes including Yakshagana were conducted at community halls.
 
 Undying craze for pvt schools 
 
 Despite efforts to lure parents to send their children to government schools, the craze to have their children educated in private   schools is only increasing. Even parents in rural areas want their children to be enrolled in English medium schools, prompting several private educational institutions to spread their wings in rural areas too.
 
 Affluent parents in rural areas are admitting their children in English medium residential schools. “There is no future for our children in villages as agriculture is no more a financially dependable occupation. They need to compete in the global job market and for that they need to be well educated and equipped. The quality of teaching in government schools in general does not instill confidence. We cannot take risk with the careers of our children and hence we are ready to invest on their education,” says Venkaraddi, a farmer from Tirlapur village whose children study in residential schools.
 
 Parents are not ready to buy the theory that the child will learn better if the medium of instruction at the primary level is the mother tongue or the regional language. “It is all fine to listen to such theories in speech. Practical life is different,” he adds.
 
 Education department officials admit that they are facing a stiff challenge of retaining student strength in government. Private schools have been coming out with innovative ideas to attract students, they add. “The performance of students of government schools in SSLC has improved over the years due to good quality teaching. But it is difficult to convince parents not to get their children educated in private schools,” says a senior official.
 
 
