PANAJI: The job losses in the   sector seems to be becoming a cause for worry for the government as two senior ministers issued subtle warning to the mine operators to stop retrenching their staff and wait for two more months for the state to find a solution.

 “We are trying our level best to keep mining till 2020. If any company sacks its workers, we won’t cooperate with them. Wait for another two months,” senior minister and cabinet advisory committee (CAC) member Ramkrishna Dhavalikar said here on Tuesday.
 
 He asked the companies to wait for two months by which time the state would take a call on the next course of action “after we file a review petition in the Supreme Court”.
 
 Over the past month, major mining companies have either asked its workers not to report to work or retrenched its managerial staff. To save on its operational costs like food and transportation, Vedanta group, which is the biggest employer in the mining sector, was the first to ask its workers not to report for work. Soon after Fomento group retrenched its 800-managerial staff, while the latest to join the bandwagon has been the mining division of the Chowgule’s that asked its 500 workers not to report for duty.
 
 In Margao, Dhavalikar’s cabinet colleague and fellow CAC member Vijai Sardesai expressed his disapproval over retrenchment of employees by some of the mining firms in the state following the closure of 88 mining leases.
 
 He questioned the propriety of these firms in sacking the employees within hardly one month of the closure of mines when they had amassed huge profits all these years.
 
 “I am confident that the solution to the mining issue will come from the Centre soon,” Sardesai said, adding that two sets of opinions have been received by the government from two senior lawyers over the mining issue. 
 
 Expressing concern over the impact of the closure on the people of the mining belt, Sardesai stressed that the government would have to come out with some relief to the affected people. Stating that several development works will soon be executed in the mining areas, Sardesai said the government was currently according “most favoured constituency” treatment to the mining belt. 
 
 “Nobody should celebrate the closure of mining, though I am all for sustainable mining,” he said. 
 
 BJP MLA from the mining belt of Curchorem, Nilesh Cabral, also tried to assuage mining workers’ worry after opposition leader Chandrakant Kavlekar said the government wasn’t take any initiative to stop mining companies from laying off its employees. “We have got assurances from the Centre that a system will be worked out so that the people in the mining sector are not affected. Hopefully in the next few days, we will get a positive result,” he said.
 
 He also requested the mining companies not to take hasty decisions and wait for a couple of months. “We are trying our best to restart mining,” he said. 
 
 Cabral also warned the mining companies that if they start retrenching people, then “we will sit back and relax. Give us some time…otherwise, what is our point in trying… it is of no use.”
 
 
