CHENNAI:   is staring at a major power crisis as   — the state power utility — is running short of coal. As on date, it has stock for just four days. With wind energy generation also falling due to rain in south Tamil Nadu, the state could be heading for power cuts unless coal is made available immediately,. 

 The discom has resorted to import of coal to meet demand. The problem, which surfaced due to shortage of rail rakes, has been continuing for the past one year or so, and railway and coal ministries have not taken adequate steps to correct the situation. Apart from Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and many other states face similar problems.
 
 Tangedco sources said the discom was managing coal supply based on daily arrivals and had not been able to build adequate buffer stock as per CEA standards. “Our average stock is for four days. Since receipts are more or less matching consumption of coal, there is no shortfall in supply of power,” said chairman Vikram Kapur. Alarm bells start ringing if there is a delay in arrival of daily supply as the alternative source – wind energy – is also down, he said.
 
 “We have been repeatedly requesting coal and railway ministries to provide us the required quantity of rakes to allow us build a reasonable buffer stock. But they are unable to meet our demand. We are managing the situation using imported coal and purchase of power from private sources,” said Kapur.
 
 “Tangedco has so far imported 1.4 million tonnes of coal this year, after going without imports at the end of 2016. With the rupee depreciating against the dollar, the cost of import is likely to depreciate the meagre earnings of the discom,” said another Tangedco official.
 
 Increase in coal imports by state-owned power utilities undermines the pledge made by the Centre to cut coal imports to nil by March 2018.
 
 “Due to a cyclonic storm in the Arabian Sea, it has been raining in wind catchment areas. Owing to this, there is a drop in wind generation. Last year, by this time we had good generation of wind power. The good news is that wind power generation is likely to begin from Friday as per forecast. This will help augment power supply,” said   chief K Kasturirangaiyan. Tangedco is handicapped, with the nuclear power units also failing. Only one of the two units in Kudankulam is generating power.
 
 
