The ' ' track from Allu Arjun’s 'Naa Peru Surya' has hit all the right notes clocking over 2 million views within 24-hours of its official release on YouTube. The song has triggered a deluge of likes and comments online. Sample these: “Ramajogayya Sastry is back...salute to border soldiers.” “Vishal   u guys r awesome. U make epic tunes, happy to see u making Telugu music and taking it a step high.   has magic in his voice.” “I’m from Rajasthan, I couldn’t understand even a single word but I’m still getting goosebumps, love you  , love you Indian army.”

 Director   is thrilled with the response. “It is the introduction song of Bunny in the film. Pretty much like a garland offered to God in worship, Oo Sainika... is a humble tribute to India’s soldiers. I believe, there is no bigger hero than a soldier. Everyone is patriotic but occasionally, we need to be reminded of the sacrifices made by the men who guard our borders. Without them, we cannot even think of the freedom which we are enjoying today,” says Vakkantham Vamsi who is all praise for lyricist Ramajogayya Sastry.
 
 The song is being compared with iconic patriotic songs like Sri Sri’s 'Telugu Veera Levara' from 'Alluri Seetharamaraju' or 'Padavoyi Bharateeyuda' in 'Velugu Needalu', Arudra’s Gandhi 'Puttina Desama Idhi' from 'Pavitra Bandham' and 'Punya Bhoomi Naa Desam' from 'Major Chandrakanth' by Jaladi Raja Rao. 'Sainika', however, is unique as it is probably the first Tollywood paean to the armed forces eulogising their contribution to the nation. 
 
 “Bunny is a socially conscious person. Earlier, he acted in a short film called 'I Am That Change' that stressed on the need to be the change that we want to see in India, which was received very well. Sainika is like a wake up call to our society today which is becoming very self-centered and the response it has generated shows that Bunny is on his way to becoming a youth icon like the late NTR and Chiranjeevi. The beautiful tune by Vishal Shekhar and the powerful yet simple lyrics by Ram Jogayya Sastry coupled with the vision of Vakkantham Vamsi and the stardom of Bunny have taken it to an altogether different level,” says producer Lagadapati Sridhar.
 
 Produced by Sirisha Sridhar Lagadapati, Bunny Vas under the banner Ramalakshmi Cine Creations, ' ' 
 is slated for April 27 release.
 
