BENGALURU : The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s ambitious pod taxi project to ease traffic congestion has received only one bid. That the Embassy Group is one of the three partners in the consortium that has made the sole bid has raised serious questions of conflict of interest, given that the realestate firm has a long-standing business partnership with Bengaluru development minister KJ  .

 While civic experts seek a recall of the tender, Embassy Group chairman and managing director Jitu Virwani told TOI: “(Mr) George being apartner has become a liability to the firm even when they are trying to help the city.” When contacted, George said: “I agree (with this view).”
 
 “The bid from the Smart Personal Rapid Transit Systems (Delhi-based firm which runs the pod system in Heathrow) is in line with our objective of supporting Bengaluru’s infrastructure,” Virwani said.
 
 The BBMP had called for a global tender on November 10, 2017, under the design, build, finance, operate and transfer, or the PPP, model.
 
  
 
 
 
 The last day for submission of bid documents was extended by almost a month to January 10, 2018, with BBMP claiming long holiday season in December as the reason for slack or no response.
 
 As on Thursday, the only bid made was by the consortium comprising Smart Personal Rapid Transit Systems, Ultra PRT and  . “We’ve received the bank guarantee details of only one bidder. If firms have made the security payment in cash, it will reflect on the e-procurement portal on Friday. Technical bids will open on Friday,”  , executive engineer, traffic engineering cell, said.
 
 Urban expert Ashwin Mahesh said: “As per the Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurements Act, 1999, the practice is to cancel the tender and issue a new one. If there is only one company even after the second call, then the civic agency can go ahead with the contract.” He said lack of bidders indicates the pod-taxi market had no vital value. V Ravichandar, urban expert, echoed Mahesh’s views and said the Palike should ideally call for the tender again.
 
