Coimbatore: A fishing contractor has destroyed the palm saplings that were planted on the bund of the ecologically fragile Singanallur lake a year ago in an effort to strengthen it. The contractor also warned them of dire consequences if they venture into the area again, two city-based environmentalists, who had planted the saplings, told TOI. Badly shaken by the experience, environmentalists Vinny R Peter and Joseph Reginald now plan to file a police complaint against the contractor. “We noticed a group led by the fishing contractor clearing vegetation planted on the bund using machinery when we were undertaking research work at the lake on Friday evening. When we requested them not to do so, a man identified as S Kannan, son of the fishing contractor, threatened us. He told us that it was his lake and we should not oppose him. He not only cleared the vegetation on the bund, but also set fire to the grass on the lake’s outer bund,” Vinny said. Fishing contractors began to object to their presence in the lake area when they removed encroachments from the bund recently, the environmentalists said. They had shut the old entrance to the lake and opened the new route for vehicles to pass as the bund had developed cracks. “The weir dam is in a dilapidated condition as heavy vehicles pass over it every day. We had informed the city corporation officials about the situation. After getting their permission, we began clearing the outer bund for vehicles to pass,” said Vinny. Farmers in the area also supported them. City corporation commissioner, K Vijayakarthikeyan said that the corporation would conduct an inquiry into the incident and will file a police complaint. Singanallur constituency legislative member of DMK N Karthik said that he conducted talks with both the parties. “The environmentalists have been doing exceptional work. I have warned the contractors and have asked them to use the new route. The corporation will level it and open it for the farmers and fishermen to use,” he said. Meanwhile, several environmentalists in the city said that the contractors had been indulging in excessive fishing in the lake.“Due to excessive fishing, many birds have not turned up at the lake this migratory season,” said Mohan Prasath, an environmentalist. “People’s participation is a key component in projects such as lake conservation. The environmentalists have worked for more than 12 years at the lake and have released several books on the lake’s biodiversity,” he said. The secretary of the Residential Welfare Association of Coimbatore said they would take up the matter with the police. “The lake has been declared as a biodiversity hotspot and no one can claim ownership on it. City-based environmentalists and like-minded people will meet and take steps to ensure it. We may also file a police complaint to avoid such incidents in the future,” he said. The environmentalists are part of the Centre for Urban Biodiversity Conservation and Education (Cube) headed by city corporation commissioner K Vijayakarthikeyan. They have been working along with senior scientists and environmentalists on the lake development for several years and have undertake planting drives. They plan to set up a butterfly park, student education centre and promote research on the wetlands.