BENGALURU: An estimated four lakh people descended on   through Sunday and soaked in the works put up by hundreds of artists as part of the annual Chitra Santhe, with many loosening their purse strings to pick up the works that caught their eye.

 Visitors were spoilt for choice at the 15th edition of Chitra Santhe hosted by  . It had 1,500 stalls, countless vendors and myriad types of art forms, including body painting, coffee painting and abstract art.
 
 Gregory Jackson Haley, a 44-year-old American artist, was a crowd puller as people realized he wanted them to use his body as a canvas.
 
 “This is my idea of creating art. I want to provide an opportunity for everyone to become an artist. This is my second time in the country and I realized this is the perfect culture for such an art form. Normally, it takes a lot of convincing to get people to paint on me, but here there was a natural attraction. This is an extremely curious crowd,” said a shirtless Haley.
 
 From toy drums to caricatures and Madhubani art, the santhe was a melange of everything that art is. People of all ages lugged around shopping bags full of art supplies as they made their way through the mela. The verdant tree canopy and a rush of colours turned Kumara Krupa Road into a creative hub, abuzz with activities. Prices of items ranged from Rs 100 to the several lakhs, depending on the intricacy of the piece.
 
 “We are focusing on the importance of environment through some of our pieces and performances by our students. We believe that every house should have a piece of art. We want people to see how beautiful different types of art can be. Our most expensive piece is valued at Rs 75 lakh, but it’s not for sale. We are creating platforms for artists to sell. Price factor is something they and the customers decide,” said T Prabhakar, chairman of Chitra Santhe.
 
 Lakshmipathy, a resident of Nandini Layout, came to the fair with his entire family. “I am coming here for the first time and had no idea that it was so huge. We have already spent two hours and plan on spending two more. I even brought my children along to show them what art is all about. We are surely inspired to come next year. Our favourites were the depictions on villages,” he said.
 
 Even Chitra Santhe not spared of garbage mess
 
 In a shock to environment activists, this year’s annual art fair saw use of banned items like polypropylene bags, styrofoam cups and other plastic items by external vendors. A lot of garbage was generated along the length of the mela. While initially it was all clean, with people dumping in the bins, the area became dirty as the crowd grew larger. 
 
 In 2016, the   had slapped Chitrakala Parishath with a fine of Rs 5 lakh for not tidying up the place following the event. 
 
 
