TIRUPUR: A group of  , who were   of the   caused by  , got an interim relief from the Supreme Court after it directed the state government not to recover the compensation given to them temporarily.

 As many as 535 agriculturists affiliated to the   River Ayacutdars Protection Association (Nrapa) had preferred a public interest litigation before the Madras high court seeking compensation from the dyeing units in the district as they had polluted Noyyal River in 2006. The HC, in 2011, directed the dyers to pay compensation to the farmers. By calculating the compensation of Rs 12,000 per acre, the government agreed to pay the amount to 535 farmers. Later, the government also passed an order and provided Rs 75 crore from the amount paid by the dyers. The compensation was put in the bank account of Nrapa, which was assigned to disburse the relief to the farmers.
 
 When Nrapa disbursed Rs 24 crore to about 360 farmers, many other farmers’ associations moved the HC praying to provide the compensation to them also, because they too were affected by the river pollution. As the HC was convinced that the compensation has not reached all of the affected farmers, it ordered to recover the whole amount from Nrapa. The association then refunded Rs 51 crore that remained in its bank account to the   Pollution Control Board (Tnpcb). But, Nrapa was not ready to pay the Rs 24 crore, claiming that the ‘grief-stricken’ farmers, who received the compensation partly, were not in a position to repay it.
 
 In further court proceedings, the HC directed all the affected farmers, including the ones affiliated to Nrapa and other associations, to approach the National Green Tribunal to get the compensation. 
 
 The state government then passed an order and directed Tnpcb to recover Rs 24 crore from Nrapa. As the time lapsed for the repayment, the government directed the collectors of Tirupur, Erode and Karur to recover the amount with interest of 9% from 360 farmers. Subsequently, tahsildars of Perundurai, Aravakurichi, Kangeyam and Erode taluk issued seizures under the   Act, to seize the lands with the value equal to the amount to be recovered. 
 
 Nrapa had moved the HC again, praying to stop the recovery and also to pay full quota of the compensation to its affiliated members. But, the HC in December 2017, dismissed the petition. 
 
 Hence, Nrapa appealed against the HC order before the SC. The apex court heard the special leave petition on Monday and passed an interim order before directing to issue notices to the principal secretary of the state government returnable in six weeks. 
 
 
