JODHPUR: Union minister of agriculture for state,  , was granted bail by a court of Chief Judicial Magistrate on Monday in a 15-year-old matter. While granting him bail, the court has directed him to appear in the court on June 30. According to an advocate associated with the case, a complaint against one Samarth   had been given by   in February 2004 alleging that Tiwari used to create ruckus and threaten him and others.

 “On this complaint, after investigation, the police had filed an FR in the case and initiated proceedings against Shekhawat for lodging a false complaint,” said the advocate. He added that Tiwari’s father was a police officer, who affected the investigation.
 
 The court issued summons to him but none were received by Shekhawat and according to him, he never had an idea about the court proceedings in the case and he did not pursue the case either after the FR was filed. “In January, we learnt about the matter and summons being issued for him. Shekhawat himself appeared in the court of metropolitan magistrate on Monday to file for bail,” said the advocate.
 
 Accepting the bail application on a surety of Rs 10,000, magistrate Vaidehi Singh adjourned the matter till June 30 with the directions for Shekhawat to appear in the court. The appearance of Shekhawat in the court in a decade and a half old matter is being seen in the political circles to dampen his prospects as the state party president of BJP.
 
 A party worker on the condition of anonymity said that the matter was 15 years old and nothing development in it in this period at all. “Suddenly it happened and he had to appear in the court for bail. This is a clear indication that those against his elevation as the party president in the state are out to dampen his prospects,” said a party office bearer in Jodhpur. Shekhawat, however, could not be contacted for his comments in the matter.
 
 Barely a day prior to this development, Shekhawat had told the media that neither he has any ambition to hold the position as the state party president nor has he ever rallied for it. “I am a normal worker of the party, who has always complied with the directions given to him by the organisation. I have already been given so many responsibilities that I do not yearn for more,” Shekhawat had told the media.
 
 
