MUMBAI: Kripesh   and his brother Jigar, absconding partners of 1Above restobar, were arrested in   by police on Wednesday night.

 The Sanghvis and their third partner Abhijit Mankar went underground on December 29 after the police charged them with culpable homicide not amounting to murder for the blaze that swept through 1Above and 
  in   and killed 14 persons.
 
 Additional commissioner of police (central region) S Jayakumar confirmed that Kripesh and Jigar have been taken into custody after being on the run for 12 days and will be produced in court on Thursday. Mankar is still missing.
 
  
  
 Police sources said they got leads on the whereabouts of the Sanghvi brothers during interrogation of Juhu resident Vishal Karia, who was arrested on Tuesday for sheltering the absconding trio.
 
 Kripesh and Jigar Sanghvi
 
 Cops laid trap for 1Above partners when they were to meet lawyer
 
 Joint commissioner of police (law and order) Deven Bharti said they laid a trap for   and his brother Jigar, absconding partners of 1Above restobar, after learning that the duo was likely to meet a senior lawyer in Bandra.
 
  
  
 A police officer said, “We got to know that the brothers were in Bandra (West). We laid a trap and caught them when they came to an eatery to meet someone.”
 
 Earlier in the day, Vishal Karia, arrested for sheltering the Sanghvis, was produced in the Bhoiwada metropolitan magistrate court, which extended his police custody till January 17. Police seized an Audi car belonging to them from Karia’s Juhu home. Police are also probing if Karia had extended financial assistance. “We have just arrested him. Now we will thoroughly question him,” a police officer said.
 
 Meanwhile, two managers of 1Above, arrested in connection with the December 29 fire, applied for bail pleading they had risked their own lives to rescue guests and had no role to play in any violation of rules.
 
  
  
 Kevin Bawa and Lisbon Lopes were arrested on December 31 and sent to judicial custody till January 22.
 
 Lopes, in his bail plea, said that without any regard for their own safety, they had rescued 150 to 175 people. Lopes, who is on probation as assistant restaurant manager, said he had stepped out to take an urgent call on his cellphone when the fire broke out and he was asked by the owners to help evacuate customers.
 
 “The fire had spread so fast’’ that they got no time to figure out what rescue methods to employ, he said, adding, “it may not have been possible to rescue the 14 in the toilet as they could not be traced due to the fire.’’ Their plea is that, at best, they can be prosecution witnesses and, in any case, are not concerned with any alteration or erection of the structure. Their duty was to serve food and beverages and they cannot be booked for culpable homicide. The men said they should be charged under a bailable section pertaining to negligence and be granted bail. A magistrate will hear their bail pleas on Thursday.
 
 (Inputs from Swati Deshpande)
 
