KOLKATA: The accident-prone   crossing may get safer for both locals and motorists with the KMDA starting construction of the first of the two proposed foot overbridges (FOB) at Captain Bhery, metres away from the Chingrighata flyover.

 
  
  
 The FOB has been a consistent demand by locals after the stretch witnessed several fatal accidents this year. Kolkata   too, has been continuously following up with the civic agency to get the plans executed. “Once the FOB becomes operational, we will dismantle the traffic lights at Captain Bhery in order to ease the commute,” said a senior Beliaghata traffic guard official.
 
 But this is not the only change at the accident-prone stretch of EM Bypass between   and Chingrighata crossing. In an effort to stop vehicles from bumping into one another on the north-bound flank of EM Bypass near Metropolitan, Kolkata traffic police has introduced two new signals — one right after motorists get off the Maa flyover and the other at the   cut out close to Metropolitan.
 
 “The road shrinks at this point and we often find vehicles coming from Science City jostling for space with cars speeding down Maa flyover. This had led to accidents in the past,” explained a senior officer at Lalbazar.
 
 For now, thus, vehicles getting off Maa flyover will be stopped for a maximum period of one minute to allow those vehicles using the Bypass to move ahead. The vehicles on the service lane will also have to stop for the same amount of time in order to allow vehicles from Science City to move towards Chigrighata. Once these 60 seconds elapse, the vehicles from Science City will be halted for a maximum of 30 seconds to allow vehicles from Maa flyover and the service roads to pass.
 
 “The plan is to allow one lane of vehicles to continue forward even as we keep another lane on hold. This is the only option available to control the volume of traffic on this stretch. This concept was introduced on the Santragachhi flyover with great success,” said DC (traffic) Sumit Kumar.
 
 The second overbridge will be built at the Chingrighata intersection to cross over Bypass from   to Jal Vayu Vihar. KMDA might install an elevator and an escalator at the FOB to facilitate cyclists and those who may have difficulty using the stairs.
 
 
 
