PATIALA: The   vice-chancellor on Wednesday held a meeting with the   members to take decisions regarding important matters. During the meeting, some members also sought action according to the inquiry report in the alleged fire extinguishers scam. The report in this regard was submitted by a committee comprising two university professors. 

 The report, which was submitted recently, had mentioned that fire fighting equipment were not only purchased at prices three times higher than the government-approved rates, but also the firms involved were found to be existing only on papers.
 
 The government-approved CSR rate for a fire-extinguisher is Rs 2,112 but the university reportedly purchased the same for Rs 7,772 from a firm named ‘Genesis Enterprises’ that was found existing only on papers. The inquiry was marked during the tenure of officiating vice-chancellor Anurag Verma (IAS), who was given the charge last year after former vice-chancellor Jaspal Singh had resigned when the   government came to power in the state. Jaspal Singh had served as V-C during the 10-year rule of the SAD-BJP in  .
 
 After receiving several complaints, Verma had marked inquiries into 16 of them and inquiry reports of all these plaints have been submitted to incumbent VC Professor BS Ghumman, who had last month announced to appoint judges to look into the submitted reports so that university could take a final call over it.
 
 The university authorities had purchased fire extinguishers and smoke detector alarm system at higher prices between April 2014 to October 2016. The fire extinguishers worth Rs 58.4 lakh and smoke detector fire alarm system for Rs 21.4 lakh were purchased during this period. The inquiry was conducted by senior professors Dr   and Dr Amita Kaushal.
 
 In Thursday’s syndicate meeting all three members nominated by the state government, including former state information commissioner Harinder Pal Singh Harry Maan, noted journalist from   Rajesh Kumar Sharma and Major AP Singh, were also present. 
 
 The V-C discussed eight important agendas, including plans to bring the university out of a crisis. He claimed that the university had already pleaded with the government to release a one-time package of Rs 300 crore for clearing pending payments and doubling of the monthly grant from Rs 7.34 to Rs 14.68 crore.
 
 
