NEW DELHI: The   has pointed to the fear of investigative agencies among bankers while trying to reduce or retire   as well as the political difficulty in taking over such companies. The observations accompany a pitch for a   (PARA) to take tough decisions, including write-offs of large loans crippling a significant portion of India Inc and which could affect growth. 

 Alarm bells in the official document are ringing days after the 
  for their role in providing loans to Vijay Mallya’s Kingfisher Airlines. PARA, proposed to be similar to a ‘bad bank’ (one burdened with NPAs), could help rid firms of piles of sticky loans that make many of them unviable. 
 
 “Cash flows in the large stressed companies have been deteriorating over the past few years, to the point where debt reductions of more than 50% will often be needed to restore viability. The only alternative would be to convert debt to equity, take over the companies and sell them at a loss,” the pre-Budget document said. 
 
 Pointing to the failure of banks in  , it said that the lenders have refinanced and have been “kicking the problems down the road”, raising the recapitalisation burden for the government as 
  as it has bound itself to holding a minimum 51% stake. 
 
 The survey said the focus on the discourse has been on helping out banks through more equity infusion, as the lenders as well as the corporate sector have been reeling with weak finances — described as the twin balance sheet problem. The proportion of bad debt on the books of Indian banks — especially those in the public sector — is much higher than other Brics countries and South Korea. 
 
 The argument for PARA is made on the grounds that companies have been grappling with deteriorating cash flows, which makes loan repayment tougher at a time when their interest obligation is already mounting. While companies have sold assets, it was to “buy time” as they continue to “haemorrhage”. 
 
 The survey said that the key elements needed for resolution are still not in place despite several measures being announced by the RBI and the government. “The road to resolution remains littered with obstacles, even for the most ordinary of bad debt.” Given the cost involved in setting up PARA, the survey recommended that the government and the RBI could split the burden.
 
