Guwahati: Setting aside its 15-year partnership with the ruling Naga People's Front ( ) in Nagaland, BJP may enter an alliance with the newly-launched regional party National Democratic   (NDPP) for the upcoming election. 

 Reminiscent of the run-up to the Assam assembly election in 2016 - when dissidence-hit   lost a host of leaders to BJP - Nagaland is also witnessing a series of exits from the ruling party. One of the leaders Congress lost then,  , turned out to be formidable opponent not just in Assam but also in the northeast, seen as the architect of BJP's success in the northeast so far and the principal strategist for the three election-bound states in the region.
 
 In Nagaland, NDPP is the new destination for disgruntled party leaders who fear that their revolt against former chief minister Shurhozelie Liezietsu, who was replaced by current chief minister TR Zeliang, may cost them party tickets. After a summer of dissent last year, the Shurhozelie faction of NPF had severed ties with BJP, accusing it of fuelling the divide within the party. After the rival factions arrived at a reconciliation in December, the dynamic changed and the party decided to review the decision at its central executive committee meeting on Tuesday.
 
 BJP has set its sights on former NPF leader and   MP Neiphiu Rio, who joined NDPP on Wednesday. "Talks are on for a collaboration between BJP and NDPP.   is working on it," an NDPP insider said. "NPF has dismantled itself. NDPP is the only alternative for the people of Nagaland," the insider added. Earlier this month, NPF lost home minister Y Patton to NDPP. 
 
 As has been the association with NPF, BJP's partnership with NDPP is also likely to make the saffron party play second fiddle to the regional party, keeping the religious fabric of the state in mind. Nearly 88% of the population practice Christianity in Nagaland.
 
 Aware of the possibility of disgruntled MLAs switching sides, Shurhozelie said, "MLAs who are not likely to get tickets will go to another party. But we will try, as far as possible, to accommodate the current MLAs."
 
 NPF has already identified its candidates and a draft list has been prepared. "The names have to be approved by the party before we make the announcements," he said. The veteran NPF leader had earlier made it clear that the party will field fresh, young faces in place of all those who had chosen to go against the party leadership and the government.
 
 
