MUMBAI: She’s back with a spring in her step, thanks to special footwear and sheer willpower. More than two months after a ‘fatka’ thief yanked 23-year-old Dravita   off a running train, she has started walking without any assistance.

 Dravita lost a portion of her foot and some of her fingers in the accident. Her doctor has hailed her recovery as “remarkably swift”.
 
 While   continues to have nightmares of the incident, a recent surprise visit by her rescuer has given her new-found hope to soldier on. “A few days after I had got back home from the hospital, astranger knocked on the door. He said he was the train motorman who had found me on the tracks and extricated me from under a coach.” The motorman had dug out her home address from the railway authorities and paid avisit to check on her health.
 
 On February 7, Dravita was making a phone call, standing on the footboard of a ladies special train when a stick-wielding thief perched on a railway pole struck at her to steal her handset. As she got up from the tracks where she had landed, another train started approaching her from the opposite direction.
 
 “The motorman told me a few things I wasn’t aware of until he visited me. He told me that after falling off the train, I was trying to run. I must have been disoriented. He said that he gesticulated to me, asking me to move away from the tracks as I was right in the path of his train. I flipped over, but a bogie ran over my hand and foot before the motorman could halt. He rushed out of his cabin and, with the help of another person, managed to extricate me from under the rake. He then carried me into the luggage compartment of his train and to the nearest railway station (Byculla) from where I was rushed to JJ Hospital. The compartment was covered in blood,” she said. She was later moved to   at   where she underwent six surgeries including skin grafting to salvage the right foot.
 
 “I had never imagined I would recover fully. Now, I have my sights set on higher education. I want to pursue a course in chartered accountancy,” said the commerce student who studied during her hospital stay and appeared for her final year exam recently.
 
 Dravita’s plastic surgeon Shailesh   said, “There were times I wondered if I could salvage her foot or whether it would have to be amputated. But she was determined and said that she would walk with whatever I could salvage.”
 
 Within three months Dr Ranade plans to get her silicon prostheses for her foot and fingers. “She has been wanting to get back into regular shoes and bought a pair of sports shoes on Thursday only for special occasions,” said Dr Ranade who has got the pair modified from inside so that she can use it sometimes.
 
 And then Dr Ranade adds on a positive note: “Our goal is to run for the next   together.”
 
