HYDERABAD: Olympic silver medallist   is gunning for glory at the   Championships, which begin in Birmingham on March 14. With six weeks of training under her belt, Sindhu is bubbling with confidence. The shuttler said that she is playing better than what she had at the Olympics or the Worlds, where she finished the second best. Sindhu leaves for London en route to Birmingham on Friday. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I am working hard and am fit. Every year is different, but this year I am feeling good. I will give my best and hopefully go the distance this year.
 
 
 
 My confidence levels have gone up. There are a lot of changes in my game. I have improved my defence and also the way I play different strokes.
 
 
 
 I don’t think so. I consider it as a tough draw. We don’t get easy matches in a tournament like All England. We have to fight from the start and it will be tough from the first round.
 
 
 
 I think everyone in top 10 is of the same standard. It is difficult to judge and it will be tough against any of them. We can’t pick a favourite. But if you ask me to pick three, then it would be Tai Tzu Ying, Ratchanok Intanon and Akane Yamaguchi.
 
 
 
 We could meet in the quarterfinals. It will be a good match if it happens. She has recovered well from injury and played well during the Asian team championship.
 
 
 
 Not much. That day was not mine. In the end one should win and one should lose. There were a lot of mistakes from my side and also there was a lot of drift.
 
 
 
 We have a lot of sparring partners at the academy. I train a lot with them.
 
 
 
 The service rule change is fine. Initially, we thought it would be difficult but now I am comfortable with it. But it would have been better if it had been introduced in smaller tournaments and not at an event like All England.
 
 
 
 I think they may introduce it in May. If that is done, we may have to be alert from the first point itself. In that format it would be very difficult to come back once you concede an early lead.
 
 
 
 We need to change accordingly and avoid making mistakes early.
 
