NAGPUR: Even though there is a not a single case of human conflict against T-17, the state chief wildlife warden   on Tuesday issued an order to tranquillize and capture it. The eight-year-old tigress and her 4 cubs had strayed into Girgaon village in   under   of Chandrapur.

 The tigress was spotted with 3 cubs by villagers on March 8 in an agricultural patch. Later, all four disappeared into the forest. On the next day, the tigress seemed to have taken away its fourth cub which was left behind in a nullah. This is its third litter.
 
 After the incident in which the forest officials barely managed to control a converging mob, Bramhapuri deputy conservator (DyCF) Kulraj Singh formed a panel under him as per   guidelines on straying tigers. Bandu Dhotre (NTCA representative), Chandrapur and Gadchiroli honorary wildlife wardens Vivek Karambekar & Uday Patel, respectively, wildlife vet Dr Disha Sharma of Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) and a sarpanch are the other members of the committee.
 
 According to sources, the committee advised the capture and translocation of the entire family of five to either Gadchiroli or Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR). According to sources, the committee was under immense political pressure to take the decision. 
 
 “The tigress and cubs pose a threat to humans. The priority is to push the tigress into the forest. Capturing it is the last resort,” said Misra.
 
 Wildlife conservationists have questioned the rationale behind tranquillizing the tigress. “There was no need to form the committee as T-17 is not a stray animal but a resident female being ‘camera trapped’ by the Wildlife Conservation Trust (WCT) in the same area since 2012,” said wildlife experts.
 
 They said, “The panel in its report states that the tigress has not caused any human injury or casualty. It also recommended destruction of habitat by removing vegetation along the nullah to force displace the tigress and its cubs.”
 
 Further, the experts cautioned against translocating the family. They said the possibility of the female with cubs adjusting to a new area was very less. Moreover, new tigers will only occupy the area vacated by T-17, they said.
 
  (WII) scientist Bilal Habib said pushing the tigress with cubs back to her natal area is the only best option. “She must have strayed out of the forest for the cubs’ safety. Water scarcity may also be another reason,” said Habib.
 
 Maharajbagh Zoo wildlife vet and in-charge Dr SS Bawaskar suggested artificial methods like sprinkling of urine and use of scat of a male in the area where the tigress is frequenting. “Assuming the presence of a male, the tigress might return to the forest,” he said.
 
 Conservationist Prafulla Bhamburkar said the move will set wrong precedent as mere sighting of tigers can lead to further demands from locals to capture wild tigers. “In this case, all 44 tigers in Bramhapuri will have to be captured,” he added.
 
 A section of conservationists has decided to challenge the PCCF (wildlife) order.
 
