GREATER NOIDA: A group of residents and   got into a tiff on Sunday morning for allegedly removing four iron pillars around a podium for deities in a highrise society in Chi III in  .

 The residents of Icon Apartments also filed a complaint against unknown persons for vandalism and hurting religious sentiments at Kasna police station. A police team arrived at the society and found that the RWA had removed the ‘encroachment.’
 
 Binno Malhotra, the complainant, said some society residents had constructed the podium in the society during Shivaratri last year. “We had placed four statues and a Shivalinga at the spot. Devotees used to offer prayers during festivals and religious occasions. They also participated in Shivaratri last week,” she said.
 
 Some residents had collected donations and decided to make a dome over the podium. Two days ago they placed four iron pillars around the podium to place a fire dome over it. However, the society’s RWA objected to the illegal construction and advised against this. The residents ignored the advice and proceeded with their plan.
 
 On Sunday morning, these residents found the podium ‘vandalised’ and the four iron pillars missing from the spot. “They also damaged the donation box and some stuff used for decorations. Shivalinga and the statues were not touched,” Malhotra said. She visited the spot and found someone had cut the pillars with a machine. “This was done on the directions of RWA members,” she alleged. 
 
 “A group of people were planning to build a temple on the premises while others opposed the idea. We do not know who removed the structure at night,” said a local. There are around 240 flats in the society. Malhotra filed a police complaint stating the incident had hurt religious sentiments. B K Sharma, SHO Kasna police station, said the construction of the podium and dome was not authorised. “The RWA members had not given permission. They were also against the group’s decision to construct dome at the spot. Some RWA members removed curtains, rods and other items at night. There was no vandalism to the deities,” he said.
 
 Police pacified the two groups and launched an investigation into the matter. Society’s RWA President,   said he was in Mumbai for a business meeting and cannot comment on the issue. The other RWA members also distanced themselves from the matter and refused to comment.
 
 
