Sharing of Cauvery water has been an issue that has triggered many agitations, violence, damage to lives and properties, business losses and political instability in the past. The latest of such violence occurred in September 2016 in Bengaluru. Irate mobs wreaked havoc, setting on fire 40 luxury buses in a bus depot; educational institutions and other establishments were shut down and lakhs of Tamils in Bengaluru fled the city in panic. The value of damage caused to properties and businesses was pegged at `25,000 crore. All for what? Because the Supreme Court directed Karnataka to release 17TMC ft of water to save the standing crops in  .

 Now, as we await the Supreme Court verdict on appeals filed by Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala against the allocation of Cauvery water by the   Tribunal in 2007, the question is whether the verdict would smoothen water sharing between the two states and put a stop to such ‘eruptions’.
 
 Under normal circumstances, the answer should be "yes". But despite tall expectations, the situation appears to be fluid, with water supply worsening and water needs increasing both in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. That the entire Cauvery basin is grossly deficit makes the situation worse. Everyone is waiting to hear the verdict from the Supreme Court which is also expected to influence the electoral prospects of political parties in the impending assembly elections in Karnataka.
 
 The Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal constituted in 1990 gave the interim award in 1991 followed by the final award in February 2007. As per the final award, Cauvery waters should be shared among Tamil Nadu (419TMCft), Karnataka (270TMCft), Kerala (30TMCft) and Puducherry (7TMCft). Unhappy with the tribunal’s award, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala filed special leave petitions (SLP) in the Supreme Court. As per rules, the contending states should have appealed against this for getting a supplementary award from the tribunal, but instead filed SLPs. The Supreme Court had a long hearing for over 10 years.
 
 There was one more turn of events: Under normal circumstances the Union government would publish the tribunal’s final award in the gazette immediately after the declaration. But the Cauvery water tribunal’s final award was published in the gazette only in 2013, after a lapse of six years, that too after the order of the Supreme Court on a case filed by the then TN chief minister J Jayalalithaa. That apart, despite the Supreme Court’s order to constitute the   (CMB), the same is yet to be formed.
 
 Before announcement of the tribunal’s final award, expectations were high that it would stop the century-old dispute. But it never helped. There were similar yet vain expectations when the award was published in the Union government’s gazette. Now the expectations are that the constitution of CMB would contribute to end the dispute. Even more eagerly awaited is the Supreme Court verdict on the SLPs. Under normal political environment, one may depend on the two factors to end the decades-long dispute between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, but the past events, lapses and series of disturbing occurrences put enormous uncertainty.
 
 (The author is a former professor of Madras Institute of Development Studies and president, SaciWATERs)
 
 
