LUDHIANA: In order to settle down impurities inside the Buddha Nallah, around 100 cusecs of clean water may be thrown inside the drain from  , and the irrigation department has been asked to check arrangements for the same.   chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh — in a meeting with officers from various departments — has passed on instructions regarding the same on Tuesday.

 He has also fixed deadlines for completion of ongoing common effluent treatment plants (CETPs) at three places, upgradation of existing sewerage treatment plants, and closure of points from where sewerage water is directly getting drained into the Buddha Nallah.
 
 A few years ago, a suggestion was made by the P Ram Committee, constituted by the high court, to throw 500 cusecs of water from the Sirhind Canal inside the drain, so that filthy drain water could be cleaned. But at that time, people from nearby villages had opposed the move, saying there was already a problem of water-logging in the area, and in case so much water is thrown inside the drain, their farms would be completely destroyed.
 
 However, in Tuesday’s meeting, the chief secretary asked the irrigation department to work on this strategy and reduce the water quantity to 100 cusecs, and also check if it was required to construct both the sides of the drain again, so that water does not destroy the fields of farmers. The irrigation department has said in the meeting that a sum of Rs 4.5 crore was required for the task, and the chief secretary has asked the irrigation department to work out if the   ( ) can spend the amount.
 
 Apart from this, a discussion took place regarding the stalled work of CETPs at three locations, after which the harmful water of dyeing units could be treated before throwing it inside the drain. The chief secretary has asked the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) to expedite works and complete them as soon as possible. MC officials have been told to get approval for upgradation of sewage treatment plants (STPs) from the department concerned at the earliest, so that treated water could be thrown inside the drain. The   has been asked to check the open points from where domestic sewage is being thrown inside the drain without any treatment.
 
 Meanwhile, MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh said: “The chief secretary has passed on the instructions to the departments concerned to expedite ongoing works related to CETPs, STPs, and other sources. The aim is to curb the sources which are polluting the drain.”
 
 
