In the latest episode of  ,   and the rest of the members of the Goenka family reach home. Naira is still in shock over the divorce papers as is the rest of the family.   is nowhere to be seen. Dadi accuses Naira of being careless and taking a hasty decision. Surekha tells her that Naira wasn't responsible for what happened.

 Luv and Kush hear the elders talk and see Aryan there, who is also worried about the failure of their plan. They decide to tell Dadi about Shubham mixing the papers. They all get shocked.
 
 Naira cries and worries for Kartik. Manish slaps Aryan for commiting such a crime. Surekha, Suwarna and Dadi try to console Naira but in vain.
 
 Meanwhile, Kartik is seen wandering on the road, upset over the divorce. He is upset with Naira, not knowing that it wasn't her fault. He vows to run away.
 
 Naira is extremely worried and doesn't know what to do. She gets a text from Kartik, informing her that he is leaving the city but doesn't mention where he is going. Everybody worries and decide to search for him. Naira feels she knows where Kartik would go.
 
 Kartik is seen rafting in Rishikesh. Speaking to himself, he tells that everytime he has faced a crisis, he would come here and this time too he is running away from Naira. He imagines Naira following him there as well.
 
 The elders of the Singhania family pray that the hurdles soon pass and Naira and Kartik reunite in Rishikesh, just like the last time.
 
 Naira and the rest of the family arrive in Rishikesh. Naira is on the Laxman Jhula alone, searching for Kartik. They both pass each other but don't notice each other.
 
 Dadi prays to God to restore everything to normalcy. She tells her family about a special Guruji who is known for doing wonders.
 
 Dadi and the elders visit Guruji and tell him about the problem. He tells them not to worry and asks them to do a special pooja. Kartik is still not found. Naira comes back. They ask her about Kartik, she tells them not to worry and reassures them that he is just angry and will come back soon.
 
 Naira prays that Kartik comes back before their anniversary. Kartik is also at the same place but they still don't meet.
 
 At home, Shubham is upset about his plans failing. In Rishikesh, Naira manages to spot Kartik amidst the crowds. She goes towards him but he turns away. She searches for him and almost slips on the stairs. Kartik comes in time to save her.
 
 
