PUNE: The prolonged waits at bus stops are beginning to wear down Jagdish Salunke. The 49-year-old shop assistant said not only did the buses run behind schedule on the Sangamwadi-Vishrantwadi bus rapid transit system (BRTS) corridor, some buses skipped the corridor all together to run on the  .

 “It is not that the buses don’t come. They just tend to arrive very late. At times, I see buses plying on the non-BRTS section. It is all very confusing and at times frustrating,” said Salunke.
 
 His is not an isolated complaint. The   ( ) officials acknowledged the problem.
  
  
 Out of the 73 buses that are supposed to ply on the corridor each day, only 55 do. Sources in the transport body shifted some of the blame on private contractors. Officials said the private contractors are supposed to take care of bus services on the BRTS corridors, but they have not been operating buses to their fullest capacity.
 
 Also, not all buses can ply on the BRTS corridors. “Twin-door buses that have higher ground clearance are required for the BRTS corridors, and the PMPML does not have many such buses. Normal buses cannot be made to run on the BRTS corridors, because passengers may have trouble boarding or alighting from the buses. Also, some buses may be off the roads for routine maintenance and fitness tests,” said public relations officer Subhash Gaikwad.
 
 He reminded that PMPML buses cater to the entire city and many non-BRTS routes as well. “As far as this particular BRTS route is concerned, we are not able to ensure all the trips scheduled for the day. We are working on fixing the problem,” Gaikwad told TOI.
 
 Another official said though there has been a dialogue with the private contractors, things are yet to improve. “They talked about many problems and we are trying to fix the genuine ones. As per the contract, the contractors must ply more than 500 buses on the roads every day. However, that is not happening. At present, the PMPML does not have adequate number of buses and cannot terminate the contracts,” the official said.
 
 Last year, Tukaram Mundhe, the then PMPML chairman and managing director, had terminated the deal of one of the private contractors. “In that case, the buses belonged to the PMPML and the contractor was only operating them under a public-private partnership model. Once the contract was terminated, the buses were returned to PMPML and they were back on the roads. There are only about 1,700 buses in the PMPML fleet, and that is just not enough for Pune,” the official said.
 
 Amidst all this, the passengers are left holding the short end of the stick. “Not just the  , but other corridors are also facing similar issues. On normal routes, the bus frequency is not satisfactory. Often, we have to wait for buses for up to 40 minutes. The PMPML is always talking about its problems, but it forgets that it should have taken care of these things long ago,” said Shivnath Jagtap, a resident of Aundh.
 
 
