SHIMLA/DHARAMSHALA: Major fires reported in large areas of the state have claimed four lives so far, including of deputy ranger Ashok Kumar, while six people were injured in fire-fighting operations.

 peaking in Shimla on Thursday,   forest minister Govind Singh Thakur said 1,544 cases of   had been reported so far and the estimated loss was Rs 1.16 crore. Major fires had also broken out in Baddi in Solan district, Bhattiyat in Chamba district and Theog in Shimla district in the past 48 hours, he added.
 
  
  
 
 Indian Air Force (IAF) choppers would be used to douse forest fires in the worst-affected Hamirpur, Chamba and Kangra districts in Himachal Pradesh, he said. “The IAF has agreed to provide helicopters for dousing forest fires from today in the worst-affected Hamirpur, Chamba and Kangra districts,” he told reporters.
 
 Choppers would be useful and effective in areas where fire tenders cannot reach. Three helicopters would lift water from Gobind Sagar, Pong Dam and Kol Dam reservoirs, he added He said while the deputy ranger died in a forest fire in Chamba, one person died in Sunni, another in Jaswan and one more in Sarahan. Their kin would be given compensation of Rs 4 lakh each besides Rs 1lakh by the  , Thakur said.
 
 Dark smoke coming out of dense forests at hill tops has become a common scene in the area. There are mainly pine forests where such incident are taking place. Fires are not only destroying forests, but with flames are reaching villages on the outskirts of forests, private properties are also being damaged.
 
 When asked about the reasons of so many forest fires, Kangra forest conservator D R Kaushal said that there was very few fires in the last three years due to which there was large amount of deposition of dried up pine needles that might have helped fires to spread.
 
 The officials said pine trees were hardy and resistant to fire and drought. Unless there was a crown fire (the one that spreads from tree top to tree top), pine trees are not damaged. However, no such fire has taken place so far.
 
 The Army has also provided help in dousing forest fires. It had provided men and material to forest department for dousing forest fires in Dharamshala, officials added.
 
