LUDHIANA: Two months after the   retracted its statement in which it had accused Hindu outfit leader   and his accomplices, including a head constable, of stage-managing an attack, life continues to be a struggle for the sacked cop. The case is now under the purview of the NIA court. 

 Arora's gunman  , who was dismissed from the services, is now struggling to make ends meet by selling vegetables during the day and working as a security guard at night at Urban Estate, Jamalpur. Head constable Om Prakash, who belongs to the family of martyrs, was dismissed after being accused of hatching a conspiracy with Arora for allegedly faking an attack on him to get more security cover in 2016.
 
 Om Prakash's wife works as a maid in a play-way school and the family is able to earn not more than Rs 12,000 per month.
 
 On February 3, 2016, the then   youth wing leader had lodged a police complaint that he was attacked by radicals near Basti Jodhewal Chowk when he, along with his worker and gunman, was having soup at a stall. Arora had claimed that he escaped with a minor injury as the bullet grazed his neck. The police had registered an attempt to murder case. However, later, the police claimed it to be a stage-managed attack by Arora with the help of his gunman, workers and other accomplices. The police changed sections of FIR and booked them in the case.
 
 Subsequently, Arora, who was immediately expelled from his organization, spent six months in jail and his gunman Om Prakash got one month.
 
 However, recently when the Punjab Police arrested targeted killings' accused   and Hardeep Singh Shera, the cops said the accused have confessed that they had opened fire at Arora. The confession raised a finger at Punjab Police's investigation. Later, the Ludhiana police moved an application in the local court, seeking stay on the proceedings of the case.
 
 Due to this, Om Prakash went through an ordeal. Speaking to the TOI, Om Prakash said, "My father was head constable in Punjab Police and in 1991 he was killed by terrorists in   who had barged into our house. After his death, I joined Punjab Police in 1996 and always wanted to follow in his footsteps."
 
 
