While the ill-effects of smoking   on the human body has long been established, people continue to be ignorant about the harmful effects of smokeless tobacco. This form is equally addictive and can be hard to give up, and has both long-term and short-term impact on the human body. 

 Dr Amod Nayak, an eye specialist, says, “What many people don’t know is that even smokeless tobacco can have an adverse impact. One of the most commonly-used forms of smokeless tobacco is chewing tobacco. Unlike smoking, wherein the tobacco and the chemicals in it are inhaled and react faster, the nicotine in chewing tobacco is absorbed slowly. Many users chew on this for hours, thereby ingesting a steady stream of nicotine throughout the day. This process makes the body to be accustomed to a constant flow of nicotine. This constant flow and higher dose of nicotine can damage the retina, which is the part of the eye that converts light into neural signals and sends the signals to the brain for visual recognition. Some of the common conditions that chewable tobacco can cause are tobacco ambylopia and tobacco optic neuropathy, both of which can lead to irreversible blindness. Thus, one must not just give up cigarettes, but tobacco consumption in any form. It is one of the best investment one can make for their eyes and their selves.”
 
 Experts also rue that people consider smoking hookah safe. “Youngsters don’t realise that the immediate effects of smoking hookah. The apparatus itself, which consists of 2-3 valves, is not hygienic. People are at the risk of catching bacterial infections like staphylococcus aureus. Direct inhalation of the smoke can affect the lungs, resulting in lung abscess and infections. Bacterial spores can get latched onto the lungs as well. So, even if you smoke hookah only on occasions, it does not discount the adverse effect it can have on your body,” says Dr  , a pulmonologist, who also adds that it can lead to sleep deprivation. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Pulmonologist Dr   says, “Smoking is cool, or at least that is what most of the smokers believe and want us to believe. But no matter how you indulge in it, tobacco is harmful to your health. Tobacco contains over 7,000 toxins and 70 known carcinogens (chemicals that increase the risk of  ), and can damage nearly every organ of the body.” Read along to understand the effects of smoking on your body. 
 
  One of the primary reasons given by smokers is that it helps them relax. On a short-term basis, yes, smoking helps you relax. But it comes at a huge price. Smoking results in addiction and anxiety, it alters the brain chemistry and can also increase the risk of stroke. 
 
  Smoking increases the risk of eye-related issues, like stinging, excessive tearing, glaucoma and cataract. It can result in partial or total blindness, if untreated. 
 
  Cancer of the mouth and throat is common among smokers. Smoking can also result in gum disease, premature tooth loss, discolouration of teeth, etc. 
 
 Lung cancer, which is one of the leading cause of death in the world, is due to smoking. Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), which causes difficulty in breathing, is another common cause of death among smokers. Chronic Bronchitis, which is the inflammation of the bronchial tubes and also results in difficulty in breathing, is primarily caused due to smoking. Smoking also increases the risk of other infections like pneumonia and tuberculosis.
 
  Smoking is the one of the leading causes of heart diseases. Regular smokers, as well as secondary smokers (those exposed to smoke) are at high risk of heart disease. Tobacco also contributes to heart conditions by reducing the good cholesterol (HDL) and increasing the bad cholesterol (LDL and Triglycerides). 
 
  Smoking reduces your appetite. It prevents adequate nutrition to the body, which makes the body weak. It increases the insulin resistance of the body, which increases the risk of Type-2 diabetes. It also has a negative impact on the liver and intestine, and can increase the risk of ulcers in the stomach and intestine. 
 
  In men, smoking can result in abnormality of the sperm, impotence, erectile dysfunction and prostate cancer. In women, smoking can result in infertility, miscarriage, early menopause, cervical and ovarian cancer. Smoking can also impact the future generation, as it can lead to physical deformities and sudden infant deaths. 
 
 The kidney is the organ that clears toxic waste from the body. Smoking increases the chances of kidney failure, bladder cancer and other urinary tract-related problems. 
 
  Bones provide structure to the body. Due to the toxins present in tobacco, smoking can result in osteoporosis (weakening of the bones), increasing the risk of hip fracture, spine-related problems, bone marrow cancer and also rheumatoid arthritis. 
