NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to hear   challenging   of dentist couple Rajesh and Nupur   in the Aarushi-Hemraj twin murder case and called for original records to examine correctness of the Allahabad High Court’s verdict giving a clean chit to them. 

 “Leave granted. The Registry is directed to call for the original record of the case,” a bench of Justices Ranjan Gogoi and R Banumathi said after hearing a plea of Khumkala Banjade, widow of Hemraj, who was a domestic help of the Talwars.
 
 On October 12, the Allahabad HC had acquitted the Talwar couple in the sensational double-murder case and said they could not be held guilty on the basis of the evidence on record. The HC upturned the verdict of the Ghaziabad CBI court which found the couple guilty of murdering their 13-year-old daughter   and Hemraj in 2008 and sentenced them to life imprisonment on November 26, 2013.
 
 Challenging the verdict, Hemraj’s widow contended that the HC order meant that no one killed the duo in 2008 and the guilty must be punished. The petition said it was the primary responsibility of the government and its authorities to ensure that the culprit was brought to book and society would not be secure if no one is punished in the case.
 
 CBI has also filed an appeal in the Supreme Court challenging the HC verdict and its plea is yet to come up for hearing. The agency in its petition said the HC had erred in reversing the "well-reasoned" order of the Ghaziabad trial court which had scrutinised the entire gamut of circumstantial evidence and "rightly applied" the "last seen with" theory in convicting the Talwar couple.
 
 In its appeal against the Talwars' acquittal, CBI said the HC had erred by not taking into account important circumstantial evidence, which assumed significance in a case of this nature where there were no eyewitnesses. The agency said the HC completely discarded the "demeanour of the parents" immediately after the murders were discovered, which it said was an important pointer towards their role in the crime.
 
 Prior to that, CBI had filed a closure report in trial court saying it was not able to bring murder charges against anyone because of insufficient evidence. The CBI court had rejected the closure report and proceeded with the trial against the Talwars saying there was enough circumstantial evidence against them. 
 
 
