SALEM: Flag hoisting, parade and cultural programmes marked the 69th Republic Day celebrations in Salem region, comprising Namakkal, Erode, Salem, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts, on Friday.

 In Salem, district collector Rohini R Bhajibhagare hoisted the nation’s tricolour at the  . After accepting the guard of honour, she gave away the chief minister’s medals to 82 policemen, besides honouring the freedom fighters. She also distributed welfare assistance to the tune of Rs 27.20 lakh to the beneficiaries. 
 
 As many as 200 officials attached to various departments were honoured for their meritorious service. Students from various schools performed cultural events highlighting the importance of peace, national integrity and communal harmony.
 
 District revenue officer R Sukumar, city police commissioner K Shankar, Salem range deputy inspector general of police T Senthil Kumar and superintendent of police P Rajan were present at the occasion.
 
 Salem city corporation commissioner   also hoisted the national flag on the corporation premises and distributed certificates to officials for their meritorious service.
 
 In Erode, collector   hoisted the national flag and accepted the guard of honour. Officials, freedom fighters, social activists and best performers were honoured at the event. The collector distributed welfare assistance to the tune of Rs 50.12 lakh to 93 beneficiaries and also gave away the chief minister’s medals to 86 policemen.
 
 District collector   unfurled the tricolour at the integrated sports complex in Namakkal. She honoured officials, social activists and best performers in various fields during the celebrations, besides distributing welfare schemes worth Rs 53.98 lakh to 178 beneficiaries.
 
 In Dharmapuri, district collector K Vivekanandhan hoisted the national flag and distributed welfare assistance to the tune ofRs 99.80 lakh to 190 beneficiaries. . He also honoured officials for their meritorious service and freedom fighters and social activists. 
 
 In Krishnagiri, collector C Kathiravan hoisted the national flag at the district sports complex and accepted the guard of honour. He distributed welfare schemes worth Rs 42.10 lakh to 83 beneficiaries.
 
 
