LUCKNOW: The UP Police’s initiative to reach out to people through Twitter has been a hit in Noida,   and Lucknow while the move has received a tepid response in other districts, according to an annual report.

 A total of 11,849 complaints from Noida and Ghaziabad had been registered on the police’s Twitter Sewa last year while 8,039 people approached the cops through the microblogging site in Lucknow, the annual report prepared by the police said.
 
 The response was, however, lukewarm in relatively backward districts such as Chitrakoot and Siddharthnagar. Across the state, more than 73,000 people had approached the social media team of the police last year through Twitter Sewa, which was launched in November 2016.
 
 Over the past one year, the police also launched several campaigns on Twitter Sewa — such as the traffic awareness month and women safety week — and issued advisories on problems such as the Blue Whale challenge. The police also used Twitter to give lessons on interaction with foreign tourists.
 
 There were, however, some complaints of inaction against the police.
 
 Rae Bareli resident Mohit Singh claimed he had been accusing a sub-inspector of corruption for the past several months, but to no avail.
 
 “An inquiry had been earlier ordered against the sub-inspector. His conduct was found inappropriate. I have been forwarding a copy of the inquiry report along with other documents to senior officials on Twitter for the past four months but have not got any response,” he said.
 
 A Gorakhpur resident, who lost his helmet in 2015 and claimed he had tagged the police on a regular basis, said he finally managed to get a copy of the FIR in July last year.
 
 Asked about the grievances, additional SP Rahul Srivastava, who heads the eight-member social media team, said: “Since it is a new medium for a number of our staff, we do not get a proper response without following up. The Noida and Ghaziabad police units act without any persuasion while teams posted in other districts have to be regularly pushed.”
 
 
