KOLKATA: Mohammad Tarique’s survival is nothing short of a miracle. A three-and-ahalf-foot-long metal rod had pierced through his skull in an accident on VIP Road near Keshtopur about a month ago. The Park Circus resident was discharged from the hospital on Monday after he underwent a surgery and received treatment.

 
 The accident, however, has left the 24-year-old’s speech slurred and his mobility restricted. Doctors are hopeful of enhanced mobility and clarity in speech after physio and speech therapy.
 
  was in a car with his friends and cousin on VIP Road in the wee hours of April 29 when the driver lost control and the vehicle hit the median divider before turning turtle. An iron rod from the divider pierced his forehead and went through his skull. The vehicle got mangled and trapped all four — including Tarique who was sitting next to the driver. Police used gas cutters to rescue them. “Apart from Tarique the rest escaped with minor injuries. I was shocked to see the rod stuck in his head. Given the kind of injury, we had given up hope,” said cousin Azizul Haque.
 
 By the time Tarique was taken Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals around 4.30am, he had lost a lot of blood and was in a comatose state. “Our emergency doctors immediately started resuscitation and blood transfusion. They tried to stablise his condition, while the brain and spine surgeon reached the hospital in another half an hour. The fact the patient was rushed in within the golden hour also helped,” said Dr  , senior consultation neurosurgeon at Apollo who conducted surgery on Tarique.
 
 The rod was removed in asurgery that lasted for two-and-a-half hours. Bleeding, too, was also controlled during the process. The patient was put off the ventilation on the second day.
 
 Apollo CEO   said, “This surgery was one of the most complex and challenging ones performed in this hospital. Not only his family, Tarique’s journey was an emotional one for us as well.”
 
 “The bills have spiralled to about Rs 12 lakh, out of which, we have been able to clear one-fourth. Contrary to our apprehension, the hospital allowed us to take Tarque home. We are not sure whether we will be able to mitigate the dues,” said Azizul.
 
