HYDERABAD: Are Maoists planning to revive Hyderabad twin cities urban committee as part of the urban guerrilla warfare tactic? After the 2003 encounter at   in Cyberabad where two top Naxalites of then People’s War (PW)  , secretary of Twin Cities unit, and Vinobha Bhave, were gunned down, the unit was wiped out.

 Experts say it’s not easy to revive Maoist urban committees though support swelled after Rohith Vemula’s suicide at University of Hyderabad (UoH).
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Police are digging deep into the support network of Maoists in Hyderabad after arrest of two students, A Prudviraj and  , who were allegedly part of a plot to eliminate UoH vicechancellor Appa Rao Podile.
 
 Speaking to TOI, a senior official of special intelligence branch of   police said, “The duo was on our radar and we were keeping a vigil. Prudivraj was earlier arrested when he was trying to escort the wife of Maoist leader Chandranna at Palvoncha. The two are ideologically committed, but are unlikely to form a full-fledged action team that can eliminate high-profile targets. It’s a fact they were in touch with the Maoist brass, including central committee members. However, they are not into recruitments.”
 
 Police said currently there is no urban committee of CPI Maoists in Hyderabad, but guerrillas are trying to operate through frontal groups and getting in touch with supporters and sympathizers in Hyderabad.
 
 “They are not able to recruit cadre from urban areas. So they are trying to tap relatives, friends and sympathisers. In 2003 after Ramana Reddy of Hyderabad twin cities urban committee was killed in an encounter, there was no committee since then,” said the intelligence official. Reddy, who initially worked with   committee, was then moved to Hyderabad twin cities committee.
 
 The Rachakonda dalam and Musi dalam of Nalgonda that were testing the waters in city limits were wiped in 2010 after spate of arrests, surrenders and encounters.
 
 Anti-Naxalite intelligence cops say Maoists currently don’t have action teams or the dare of Naxalites like Ashanna alias Takkalapally Vasudeva Rao who had the capability to hit targets in cities.
 
