New Delhi: The   over the lucrative   run from Bankner, Ghewra and Lampur villages of   took an ugly turn when two men were   by   over   of   on Thursday.

 A probe has revealed that the deceased men, Govind and Satish, had been released from jail recently and were allegedly re-grouping to take on their rivals, Vinod and Kaptan. Two men have been detained in the case. Police sources said that Govind was involved in 11 cases of robbery, attempt to murder and theft, while Satish had nine cases lodged against him.
 
 CCTV footage of the incident recovered on Friday showed Govind, Satish and their associate, Mukesh, being waylaid by a group of 10-12 men, all of whom carried knives and pistols. The group first got into an argument with the three men during which one of them shot Govind from behind. They then killed Satish and injured Mukesh.
 
 One of the killers, wearing a turban, was seen walking around Govind’s body with a pistol in his hand. After sometime, another killer appeared holding a cleaver. He kicked Govind’s body a few times and then hacked it with the cleaver. The men then ran away, possibly after seeing a police vehicle. When TOI visited the villages on Friday, most people refused to speak about the ongoing rivalry fearing retaliation from the gangs. It was found that the bootlegging business was being run by one Tanvir, who had recently fallen out with Govind over areas of operation.
 
 Govind used to procure illegal liquor through a woman in Rohini Sector 24, whom he used to introduce as his wife. His family has denied having any knowledge about her. The locally-brewed liquor was sold at Narela industrial area.
 
 Both Satish and Govind were released from Tihar Jail after the latter’s father, Balban Pandit, passed away on February 1 after suffering a heart attack. A few years ago, Govind’s brother’s leg had to be amputated due to a bullet injury sustained during a fight with rivals.
 
 On Thursday night, Govind had gone to fix a deal near Lampur underpass with Satish and Mukesh, who was their conduit.
 
 Mukesh, who was released from a hospital on Friday morning, told the cops that the attackers were from Tanvir’s group. During the argument, Govind pushed one of them after which he was shot. As the gang knew that Mukesh was a conduit, they didn’t kill him. A member of the suspect gang from Holambi Kalan village in outer Delhi was detained for questioning on Friday evening.
 
 
