Our kidneys are two bean-shaped organs, each about the size of a fist. They extract waste from blood, balance body fluids, form urine and aid in other important functions of the body. They also make hormones that help to regulate blood pressure, make red blood cells and keep bones strong.
  (PKD) is a   in which cluster of   grow on kidney that leads to kidney enlargement and loss of function. Basically, cysts are round sacs filled with fluid and they are non-carcinogenic in nature. These cysts can vary in size and can cause cysts to develop in other body regions such as liver.
 
 As polycystic   is a genetic disease, in most cases, the disease runs in family. However, there are (rare) chances that one can get the disease due to some spontaneous genetic mutation while neither of the parents has a copy of mutated genes. For prevention of polycystic kidney disease, though you cannot help genetic involvement; but you can prevent severe complications by keeping the kidney healthy as much as possible. The most important way to prevent complications is to manage blood pressure: take proper medication, eat a low salt diet, don't smoke or drink alcohol in excess and most importantly maintaining a healthy weight with regular exercise. 
 
 Though it is a genetic disorder and found in very early stage; there are many possibilities to delay the progression of kidney disease to end stage renal disease. It’s important to conduct a simple urine analysis for proteinuria, serum creatinine and a USG of kidneys in every hypertension patient as it helps in early diagnosis of not only polycystic kidney disease but also other kidney diseases so that quality of life and kidneys can be maintained life long.
 
 Symptoms of polycystic kidney disease are: High blood pressure, back or side pain, headache, a feeling of fullness in your abdomen, increased size of your abdomen due to enlarged kidneys, blood in your urine, kidney stones, kidney failure, and urinary tract or kidney infections. This disease can further develop severe complications such as aneurysm in the brain, heart valve abnormalities, colon problems and chronic pain.
 
 If you notice some of the above mentioned signs and symptoms; visit your doctor immediately. Moreover, if you have first - degree relative such as parents, sibling or child with polycystic kidney disease, consult for doctor for the screening of the disease. If you have polycystic kidney disease and considering pregnancy, consult a genetic counselor to evaluate your risk of passing the disease to your offspring.
 
 
 
 
