NEW DELHI: Sanitation workers struck work for the first time in 2014 over non-payment of salaries by the East Delhi Municipal  . Things have not improved in the four years since. With the east and north corporations unable to boost their treasuries, their employees — teachers, doctors, nurses, engineers, sanitation workers and departmental staff — continue to suffer.

 Many of them would perhaps like to go on   too, but teachers like Tariq Khan and doctors like R R Gautam, cannot afford to cease work. Such action on our part will affect the studies of municipal school children, said Khan. Gautam, a senior doctor at Hindu Rao Hospital, similarly said that medical professionals cannot leave their patients and go sit on protest. But everyone insists the authorities must urgently do something to resolve the financial crunch in the civic bodies.
 
 EDMC finance officials revealed that Rs 130 crore is required every month to meet the salary expenses. At the north corporation, Rs 200 crore is the needed sum. Against this, the annual incomes of the two civic bodies are, respectively, Rs 900 crore and Rs 1,200 crore. “Almost 90% of our revenue goes into salaries, but this is not enough,” declared a senior north official.
 
 While the corporations have failed to improve revenues, they have been blaming the state government for their woes. “The state government must release funds based on the recommendations of the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission, which means around Rs 1,000 crore per year for eight years for EDMC,” said a senior finance official in the corporation. “The problem of delayed salaries can only be resolved if the civic body gets more funds from the government.”
 
 The finance panel had suggested that the municipal corporations be given a higher share of taxes collected by the state government. At present, the three civic bodies get 10.5% of the taxes, of which 1.5% is given as municipal reform funds, conditional to the municipalities meeting certain norms. However, Delhi government says it will implementation the report in full only when the Union government increases Delhi’s share of central taxes.
 
 “We are trying to improve revenue collection, but it will take time,” said Preety Agarwal, mayor of the north corporation. “We plan to meet Delhi government officials to discuss the fourth finance commission.” EDMC mayor Nima Bhagat, for her part, slammed chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for “playing politics over funds”, thus causing problems for employees.
 
 
