Mumbai: Homegrown stent manufacturer   is raising Rs 230 crore in a funding exercise led by leading investment management firm  , along with existing institutional investor  , in one of the largest deals in the highly-regulated segment, reaffirming its attractiveness to investors. 

 This is the first such PE investment since the government imposed pricing caps last year on cardiac stents, impacting sentiment in the industry, with many threatening to withdraw from the market. Confirming the deal, promoter and MD Bhargav Kotadia said that   (SMT) plans to utilise the funds for acquisitions in Europe, R&D and manufacturing expansion. It is currently the second-largest market player.
 
 As part of the transaction, a fund managed by Morgan Stanley is investing Rs 160 crore, with the balance by Samara. After infusion, both Morgan Stanley and Samara together will hold a minority stake in the privately-held company, each in double digits. The company’s board will also be restructured — with two representatives each from Morgan Stanley and Samara Capital, and five from the promoters’ side. Samara Capital had earlier bought a minority stake in SMT by pumping Rs 80 crore in 2016. “The company’s aim is to become a cardio-vascular player with a strong pipeline of products — including periphery stents, and structurals, and not only cardiac stents. The fund infusion will bolster further expansion in overseas markets, assist in building a strong pipeline of next-generation cardiovascular products, and help the company to grow through the inorganic route, particularly in Europe”, he added. 
 
 SMT operates a WHO-GMP-certified manufacturing plant with an annual capacity of 2.5 lakh units at Surat (Gujarat), and two R&D centres located in Surat and Dublin. While it’s “actively engaged in discussions with two to three companies” for an acquisition in Netherlands, France or Switzerland, it is also exploring a site to set up a second manufacturing facility in India. 
 
 Arjun Saigal, co-head of Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia in India, said, “Lifesciences & healthcare is one of our core focus sectors in India. The increasing burden of lifestyle diseases combined with the push towards local manufacturing backed by the best in class R&D has led to a significant rise in the use of domestic medical implants. SMT’s high-end technology and focus on R&D will make it a key beneficiary of the rapid expansion in treatment volumes and medical infrastructure.” 
 
 Founded by Dhirajlal Kotadia in 2001, SMT has catapulted to become a major player, after pricing caps on cardiac stents, which slashed their prices by nearly 85% in certain cases to Rs 29,600. 
 
 According to SMT, it is the largest developer, manufacturer and player in minimally-invasive coronary stents (drug-eluting & bare metal),  ,   and other cardio vascular accessories in India. SMT exports about 30-35% of its portfolio of life-saving devices to UK, Spain, Italy, Netherlands, and over 60 other countries. 
 
 
