LUDHIANA: For bringing improvement in garbage collection points, civic authorities are planning to install smart dustbins at secondary collection points. In this regard, a feasibility survey will kick off next week to identify locations where the dustbins could be installed. The idea is to curb the problem of scattered garbage at dump sites.

 The   made of steel are installed underground, while constructing concrete chambers so that garbage does not affect the area’s soil. The concept has been adopted by many smart cities, and now civic officials are planning the same for this industrial town.
 
 One of the officials said other dustbins installed are stolen or damaged by miscreants, but these smartbins are installed underground, and get lifted hydraulically. He said it would also help reduce litter on the road, because space is left open only for dumping of garbage, otherwise it is closed. He said in the first stage, around 40-50 sites would be identified by MC.
 
 Meanwhile, additional commissioner   said they would first of all check its feasibility through this survey, and if found satisfactory, they would implement the project in the city under the Smart City Mission. He said they would also talk to A2Z waste management company in this regard, because they had signed an agreement with them.
 
 Interestingly, while MC is planning for these smart bins, each one of which would cost a minimum of Rs 2.5 lakh, when it comes to providing two coloured plastic dustbins for segregation of waste, the department is simply creating awareness among residents. Residents in these areas are being told to keep two coloured dustbins in their houses at their own expense. Moreover, two coloured dustbins are installed in markets with the help of A2Z waste management company, which is handling solid waste management for the city. 
 
 CHECKING KEY LOCATIONS
 
 The survey will take place at around 50 locations, conducted by three officers from different branches — one from Health & Sanitation branch, another from Operations & Maintenance branch, and a third one from the Lights branch of MC. A private company which gave a presentation regarding this project to MC on Friday, and consultants from Aecom will also accompany MC officials for a detailed project report.
 
 These officials will check whether there is any sewerage or water supply line passing underground at that location or whether street light connections have been given from that location. The position of overhead high tension wires will also be checked. 
 
 Civic officials are considering 48 sites for the installation of smart bins, and these sites have been recommended by   MLAs Surinder Dawar, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, and   for their respective constituencies. However, it is to be seen whether areas falling in the constituency of another   Rakesh Pandey will also be covered or not.
 
 
