 
If you were to name one aspect of academics that is crucial to making any kind of progress, what would that be? Well, if you thought 'research' was the answer, please pat your back. Research has made modern life possible on so many levels - from the medicine we take for a headache to knowing our ancestors, from the cars we drive to our everyday bus journey - research helps us expand the horizons of our existing knowledge base and create new knowledge. And while all human beings are potential researchers, it takes great learning to be a successful researcher. 
 
 
  As a booming hub for higher education, the National Capital Region continues to attract more students from all over the country every year. The private universities that populate the suburbs of the capital offer interesting new perspectives to higher education. The Shiv Nadar University claims a prominent mention when discussing new age private universities. It is one of the only private universities in the country that is leading the way in comprehensive, multi-disciplinary research having already invested close to Rs. 200 crores to develop just its internal research infrastructure. 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  The sprawling 286-acre self-sustaining, fully residential campus sets a very Victorian tone. Also, the impressive infrastructure symbiotically clubbed with the beautiful surroundings of the Dadri wetlands creates a scenic and serene environment. The University was established in 2011 by Shiv Nadar, the technology mogul who also created the $8 HCL Empire. Over the last 7 years, the University has earned the reputation of being a serious academic and research-oriented institution for higher education. The University already holds the distinction of having produced several game-changing pieces of research including the discovery of a compound that can reverse the results of mercury poisoning that affects a large number of people living in areas where the water carries high amounts of the metal. 
 
 
  The University is still growing and continues to evolve to create research and teaching opportunities that actively engage faculty and students right from the undergraduate level in the process of creating new knowledge. Research is not just a faculty focus at the Shiv Nadar University but an integral part of the pedagogy. The University proudly claims its 'Opportunities for Undergraduate Research program' (OUR) as its biggest differentiator. 
 
 
  To fulfill their degree requirements undergraduate students from all disciplines are required not only to take courses that train them to conduct research but undertake or participate in active research projects. This student-centric University has implemented an active or participatory style of education. The students are encouraged to 'learn by doing', and thus develop the essential employability skill - either in research institutions or in the industry -- of creative problem-solving. A teacher-to-student ratio of 1:10 allows the University to sustain and excel in this method, with a comprehensive and continuous assessment of students.
 
 
  Like its popular Engineering programs, most other programs offered at the Shiv Nadar University are also 4-year programs and the degree offered to students is either B.A. (Research) or B.Sc. (Research). Undergraduate students are taught the nuances of research and innovation while strengthening their foundation with a broad multidisciplinary education and in-depth focus on their major subject. 
 
 
  Additionally, a lot of innovative and contemporary research is facilitated at the six independent and interdisciplinary research centers that include the Centers of Big Data Analytics, Environmental Sciences & Engineering, Public Affairs & Critical Theory, Informatics and the Institute for Innovations & Inventions with Mathematics and IT. Shiv Nadar University is also the first private University and only the fifth research institution in the country with 'Magus' - a High-Performance Computing (HPC) cluster, designed to facilitate the computing needs of research projects and complex computing simulations undertaken by various schools of the University. 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  Funded generously by the Shiv Nadar Foundation, a private philanthropic venture of Shiv Nadar, the University solely focuses on attracting quality students and offers generous scholarships to do the same. Apart from the various merit and means-based scholarships already offered by the University, this year they will be launching a new "Gifted Student Scholarship" program. With this new scholarships, the University will offer Rs. 40 crore as the total scholarship pool, available to students from the 2018-19 batch. Under this program, the University will consider students with certificates from pre-identified exams. Eligible students are directly invited for an in-person interview at the University. Once they are selected they are entitled to a 100% tuition waiver.
 
 
  To put it in the words of the University's Chancellor, Dr. S.N. Balakrishnan, an Aerospace Engineer and ardent researcher himself, "The Shiv Nadar University is defined by the passion for excellence that drives us. We are always reinventing ourselves to offer the best possible resources that can help propel the country's progress. This University is not an individual effort but the collective dream of many who believe that there is no greater method of transformation than quality education."
 
