HUBBALLI: Political parties are likely to face the ire of red gram (tur dal) growers in   as their produce continues to fetch below the minimum support price (MSP) in the market. Procurement centres have stopped purchasing tur dal. Farmers are still in the possession of 4 lakh tonnes of unsold stock due to the lack of demand. 

  president   told TOI that farmers are demanding the removal of the purchasing cap. "Not meeting the demand of raising the procurement cap may turn negative for the prospects of major political parties in the region," he said.
 
 Sources in the agriculture department said that about 9 lakh tonnes of red gram was grown in the state. In December last year, the Centre fixed a procurement cap of 1.65 lakh tonnes. As many farmers remained out of the ambit of price support scheme, the state government wrote to the Centre to increase the cap. The Union government increased the cap by 1 lakh tonne. The state government again wrote to the Centre to further increase the cap to 5 lakh tonnes. However, the government restricted it to 3.64 lakh tonnes.
 
 For the past many years, farmer leaders have been demanding that the import duty of 30% be levied to discourage the import of red gram and stop the falling price of red gram in the domestic market. At present, the duty of 10% is imposed on red gram. However, the demand for 30% of import duty is yet to be met.
 
 The falling price has also impacted dal mills in the region too. Former president of Kalaburgi Dal Mill Association, Shivasharanappa C Nigudgi told TOI that of the 300 dall mills in the region, around 40 are running in the district and the remaining have closed due to low price. "Meanwhile, banks are also after bank mill owners to recover loan. The state and the Centre have failed to protect the interest of both farmers and dall mill owners," he alleged.
 
 The Hyderabad-Karnatak districts of Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Bidar and   districts of   and   produce a large quantity of red gram every year. Even though the Centre recently increased the procurement quantity of red gram, procurement centres have stopped purchasing the produce as the limit is reached. The centres procured the 20 quintals from each farmer at an MSP of Rs 6,000 per quintal. The MSP of Rs 5,450 is paid by the Centre while the incentive of Rs 550 is paid by the state government. As the procurement limit is reached, the produce is being sold at Rs 4,000 to Rs 4,500 at APMCs. The farmers are selling the produce below the MSP.
 
 
