BHOPAL:   will now be open for kids, thanks to the new Governor of state,   - who issued instructions in this regard on Saturday.

 The move is aimed to encourage students to do big in life, said officials. The Governor made the announcement while interacting with students from the scheduled caste and scheduled tribe (SC/ST), who participated in the leadership development camp at Raj Bhawan in the day
 
 Officials said that Rashtrapati Bhavan too remains open for public on select days in a week. So far, there was no such provision for children to visit the Governor house, but now they would be able to see it, they said.
 
 If a group of students want to visit the Governor house, their school principal has to write a letter to Raj Bhawan and they will be soon granted the permission, said the officials adding that this is the first times such an arrangement is being made in the state.
 
 The Governor house in Bhopal has a historical significance. In 1880, Sultan Shah Jahan, Begum of Bhopal constructed the   as a place for British officers to stay. It is built over an area of 15,423 square feet. Raj Bhavan was the first Kothi in Bhopal with a roof made of red China clay - Kavelus. In addition, the predominant colour of the bungalow was red and hence was initially named Lal Kothi. This name stuck with it for many years - even after India gained independence.
 
 The Raj Bhavan has a secretariat, dispensaries, Jawahar Khand - a key building and the main administrative unit.
 
 The residential building has presidential suite/prime minister suite, durbar hall, banquet hall. It has guest houses and a lawn for oath-taking ceremonies. There is also a library and officers' quarters.
 
 During Anandiben's interaction with the children, the Governor told them to work hard to realise their dreams. Higher education and good character would help children in making their future bright and to lead the country, she said. She gifted watches and books to children on the occasion. The Governor also asked children to save water and not to waste food.
 
 Anandiben Patel is making unprecedented moves since the day she assumed office on February 23. She visited children at anganwadi centre and shelter home for destitute kids', minutes after taking oath of office on Tuesday and inquired about nutritious meal at anganwadi. Patel spent her second day in office visiting gaushalas (cowsheds) in Bhopal.
 
 She also went to meet former chief minister, Kailash Joshi. 
 
 MP has got a full-time governor after a gap of 16 months. Gujarat governor Om Prakash Kohli held additional charge of MP after Ram Naresh Yadav retired in September 2016.
 
  Patel is the second woman governor of the state after Sarla Grewal (1989-90).
 
 
