KOCHI: The   on Monday granted bail to sub-inspector Deepak GS, who was arrested in Sreejith’s   while he was the station house officer (SHO) of Varappuzha police station. It is the first time that a bail is being granted in the case.

 
 Bail was granted by the court as the statement given by Sreejith to the doctor had not mentioned about the role of  . The court also considered the statement of Sreejith's wife to magistrate, after talking to Sreejith, that did not mention about the SI's role.
 
 Representing Deepak, senior counsel P Vijayabhanu, had contended that the earliest information in the case is the statement given by Sreejith to a doctor at Aster Medcity Hospital but his role has not been mentioned in it. Statements have been made against him by the co-accused at the influence of some vested interests, the counsel had argued.
 
 In his bail plea, the SI had relied on the ‘police intimation form’ issued from the hospital after the doctor examined him on April 8th. “It is recorded that patient says that ‘he was assaulted by 2 unidentifiable police officers (in civil clothes) just outside his house using their hands and feet on 6/04/2018 at 8.30pm and taken straight to police station’,” the petition said. There is no complaint regarding inflicting of injury at the police station or inside the lockup, the petition had stated.
 
 Additionally, Sreejith was taken to various hospitals four times but no allegation regarding torture by the SI was raised by him, it was claimed by the SI. Further, no allegation has been made against him by the petition filed by Sreejith’s wife before the high court seeking a CBI enquiry, the SI had contended.
 
 Similarly, no mention about his role is mentioned in the remand report filed by the investigating officer before the magistrate court at the time of production of accused 1 to 3. However, a subsequent remand report, dated April 21st, had stated that the SI manhandled the deceased inside the lockup.
 
 “The case against the petitioner came up only after the accused in Cr.No312/2018 of   Police Station (co-accused of Sreejith) came out from jail and they have made the statement at the instigation of some vested interests with ulterior motives,” Deepak’s petition had said.
 
 
 
