NEW DELHI: Time is running out for the  . Although they have to games left to play – they need to win both to nourish the hopes of making it to the   Playoffs - RCB run into a strong opponent in   on Thursday in Match 51 of the IPL. They Hyderabad-based franchise has been a formidable unit and is the first team to make it to the Playoff. While the contest seems heavily stacked in favour of Sunrisers, RCB star batsman   feels that they can beat the table-toppers by taking a lead out of Chennai Super Kings’ book.

 
 
 
 “There are no ifs or buts: we need to beat Sunrisers Hyderabad in Bengaluru on Thursday or else the sun will finally set on our hopes of winning the 2018   title. Until last weekend, SRH had batted first on four occasions during this campaign, posting ostensibly unimpressive totals of 118, 132, 146 and 151; and yet they had won all four of these matches, bowling and fielding as effectively as any IPL team ever, De Villiers mentioned in his Thursday’s column for TOI.
 
 
 
 “Then they were asked to bat first against CSK in Pune on Sunday, and, when SRH scored 179, their highest total of the season, most observers will have assumed that was that... but the IPL is nothing if not unpredictable. Ambati Rayudu and Shane Watson led the chase with purpose and aggression, and CSK reached the target with ease and an over to spare. Suddenly the great defenders had not managed to defend.”
 
 That being said, the South African wicketkeeper batsman lauded Sunrisers for their clinical performance throughout the season, while giving a special mention to skipper Kane Williamson for the way he has led the side. Williamson has led from the front this season scoring 544 runs at an average of 43.40, including six half-centuries.
 
 “Make no mistake, SRH are not sitting on top of the IPL table by accident. They are a team moulded in the image of their outstanding captain, Kane Williamson, of New Zealand. Talented, determined, tough and competitive, they will present a massive challenge at the M.Chinnaswamy stadium but, as CSK demonstrated, they are also beatable,” De Villiers, mentioned.
 
 RCB are currently placed seventh with 10 points. They have nothing to lose and all to gain going into their first hurdle. It’s their last home game and Virat Kohli and his men would need the rain to stay away and Lady Luck to shine. De Villiers pointed out that consecutive wins against Delhi Daredevils and Kings XI Punjab – whom they bundled out for 88 and chased down the target with 10 wickets to spare, has helped their confidence a great deal.
 
 “It has been said so many times that momentum is invaluable in the IPL. While a defeat can sow doubt and uncertainty, a couple of wins breed contagious confidence. At RCB, we have stuttered at times during this tournament — in fact, we have seriously underperformed on occasions, but somehow we stayed in the fight, and back-to-back victories on the road against DD and KXIP have boosted our collective spirits,” added De Villiers.
 
 “It was a happy and excited squad that flew back to Bengaluru on Tuesday, enthused by the prospect of sustaining our winning momentum against SRH, and giving our loyal supporters something to cheer in what will be our last home match of the season.”
 
