PUNE: A team of doctors at the state-run   successfully removed a muskmelon-sized   from the chest cavity of a 22-year- old man last week.

 Medically termed ‘thoracic teratoma’ or ‘extragonadal germ cell tumour’, the giant lump had occupied 80% of the man’s right chest or thoracic cavity.
 
 
 “The life-threatening tumour was so big that it was compressing vital organs, including heart, right lung and windpipe. To save the man’s life, we had to cut two of his ribs to squeeze the tumour out,” said surgeon Kirankumar Jadhav.
 
 After removal, the tumour weighed 800 gm on the manual weighing scale.
 
 Jadhav carried out the complex surgery on March10 along with surgeons Kamalesh Bokil, Santosh Thorat, Aviskar Barse, Ajay Vane, Atul Gaurkar, Gayatri Krishnan and Nibhay Bind and senior anesthetists Vidya Kelkar and Vinaya Kulkarni.
  
 
 The man had been suffering from severe and piercing pain in the right side of his chest since 2013. Initially, he consulted a doctor in his village.
 
 Later, he was referred to  , Loni, where he was diagnosed with pleural effusion, a medical condition in which there is an excessive build-up of fluid in the space between lungs and chest cavity.
 
 Doctor then inserted an eight cm tube (intercostal drain (ICD)) inside his chest cavity to drain excess fluid.
 
 In thefirstweek of January this year, the man had severe episode of pain and breathlessness following which he was admitted to the civic hospital in Ahmednagar. Doctors noticed that the outer skin, through which the draining tube was inserted, had become infected and developed maggots, complicating his condition.
 
 He was immediately referred to the pulmonary medicine department at Sassoon General Hospital on January 10.
 
 Heunderwent a battery of tests at the hospital. The computed tomography (CT) scan of his chest indicated a well-defined lesion (14x12x10cm) inside the right chest cavity.
 
 “Although we cut two ribs, weclosedthat gap in layers with the help of sutures and made a normal watertight thoracic cavity so that outside air does not enter and negative pressure is maintained for normal expansion of lungs,” Jadhav explained.
 
 Spine surgeon  , dean, Sassoon General Hospital, said, “Chest cavity disease is not always pulmonary tuberculosis. Complete diagnosis by newer modalities can help in the patient’s early recovery and prevent complications.”
 
