Three in four   girls in India are subjected to genital mutilation, a study has found. The study highlights the case of an 8-year-old girl who was rushed to a hospital by her parents after they realised that excessive bleeding from a botched   had put her life in danger. Resident of a prominent city, this girl had to be stitched up in a hospital 12 hours after the ‘khatna’ procedure by a traditional circumciser who told the mother of the child that in her “experience of 35 years this was the first case that had got spoilt”.

 A survivor of   ( ), the little girl’s traumatic experience last May finds space in a study titled “The Clitoral Hood a Contested Site: Khafd or Female Genital Mutilation/Cutting (FGM/C) in India”. The report through this case and more such testimonies draws attention to the practice of ‘khafd’ prevalent in the Bohra community.
 
 Brought out by a network of survivors ‘We Speak Out’ and  , the study is based on interviews with 94 individuals (83 women and 11 men). As many as 81 women in the survey had been subjected to ‘Khafd.’ The age of those surveyed was between 17 to 85 years. It states that 75% of daughters (aged seven years and above) of all respondents in the study were subjected to FGM/C. Nearly 33% of women subjected to Khafd in the study believe FGM/C has negatively impacted their sexual life.
 
 Demanding an anti-FGM/C legislation primarily targeting providers of Khafd, the writers of the report warn of the risk of India becoming a hub for FGM/C of expat and foreign Bohra girls. They point that there is a global crackdown on FGM/C in the Bohra community through legal cases in Australia and the US, and that India still does not have a law against the practice. Khafd was remembered as a painful experience by 97% of women. The women reported painful urination, physical discomfort, difficulty walking, and bleeding immediately following the procedure. Some women suffered from recurrent urinary tract infections and incontinence in the long-term.
 
 Reacting to the report, Syedna Mufaddal Saifuddin, the community spiritual head, said, “We practise a harmless cultural and religious practise called khafz. Khafz is not FGM. Few with vested interests have misguided everyone against the community ... .   are a peace loving community and would never indulge in any wrongdoing ever.”
 
 
