TRICHY: Urging law students to join the judiciary in large numbers after their graduation, Chief Justice of the Madras High Court Justice   asked to devote some time for the underprivileged who cannot afford lawyers to take up their grievance.

 Praising the legacy of  , former advocate general of Tamil Nadu, Justice Indira Banerjee lauded TNNLS for its high standard of legal education.
 
 Addressing the student gathering as the future of Indian judiciary she urged them to be committed to the independence of judiciary. “I am sure that many of you would join legal profession as lawyers and some would join as judges as it is now possible by appearing for a competitive examination. And many may join the corporate world in the legal department. However, I sincerely wish that whatever you do you will uphold the independence of judiciary,” she said.
 
 Saying that the judiciary is an important pillar of democracy, she said that “judiciary interprets the law as guardian of the constitution. Even constitutional amendments are subjected to scrutiny by the judiciary. Therefore, it becomes important that the judiciary be independent,” She also appealed to devote some time for the underprivileged sections of the society who do not have the means to access justice. Asking the students to make Habibullah Badsha as their role model, Justice Banerjee asked students to remember that there may be issues of life and death, but you have to defend and fight for them to fight for their rights. Lawyers should not be under any obligation to lie to the court or mislead the court for the favor of clients, she added.
 
 Senior Advocate, Madras High Court, Arvind P Datar, while delivering key note address as part of the memorial lecture, spoke on the need for balancing the right to privacy and state surveillance.
 
 He explained the history of privacy through a discussion on the important case laws that contributed to the jurisprudence of privacy in India. He also expounded on the development of privacy in the   and how the dissenting opinions of the earlier cases later became the majority opinion both in U.S. and in India.
 
 
