NEW DELHI:   chief   said he will never have a   account or a   profile because "they can make you egoist and self-centric".

 
 However, he said he sees nothing wrong with organisations using such   platforms.
 
 "Self-projection has its limited importance at individual level but not at the organisational level. Therefore, the Sangh (RSS) has its Facebook page and Twitter account, but not mine. And I will never have," said Bhagwat, who made this revelation in an interview with the RSS's mouthpiece 'Organiser', in its latest issue.
 
 Bhagwat is, of course, the head of an organisation that is a parent of the ruling BJP. And the   has come in for a lot of criticism from many in opposition parties for what they believe is its irresponsible use of social media and for allegedly spreading fake news.
 
 Still, the RSS chief made clear that people in politics will find value in these platforms but added they must be used with some caution.
 
 "They are useful instruments and should be used as per their utility...People working in the political field have a greater value of these platforms, but they also have to use it with caution. We should not be slaves of technology. We should use it in limits," said Bhagwat.
 
 As an individual, though, Bhagwat doesn't want to be on Twitter or on Facebook because he believes it makes one too self-centred.
 
 "They can make you egoist and self-centric. Social media means me, my, mine and I have to express my opinion on each and everything. Even after knowing that my opinion is part of a collective whole, still without waiting for the collective opinion, I post my opinion," said the RSS chief.
 
 In addition, posts on social media are often misconstrued, especially their tone and context, and that's another reason to avoid Twitter and Facebook, said Bhagwat. 
 
 "Many a times it leads to misunderstandings, sometimes with our own people, and then you have to delete the same. This happens with many people including 'swayamsevaks'. Facebook by name itself represents your face as an individual and therefore, tends to make you more self-centric," said Bhagwat.
 
 
 
 
