HYDERABAD: Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (MIM) president and Hyderabad MP   has described the controversial Hindi film Padmaavat as 'bakwas' (waste) and urged Muslims not to watch the film that revolves around legendary Rajput queen   and emperor Alauddin Khilji.

 Addressing a public meeting in Warangal city late on Wednesday night as part of the all-India campaign on 'Save Sharia', Owaisi called on Muslims, particularly the youth, not to watch Padmaavat and waste their time and money. "The film is a bakwas. Do not waste your time by watching the film. It incidentally is based on a story written by a Muslim writer," Owaisi said.
 
 Asaduddin Owaisi said Padmaavat is a 'manhoos' (curse-ridden) and 'ghaleez' (bad) film. "Do not run after it. Do not watch it. God has not created you to watch this two-hour film. God created you to lead a good life and do good things that should be remembered for centuries," he said.
 
  
  
 
 Owaisi said Prime Minister   had set up a 12-member panel to review the 'bakwas' film and suggest cuts. The story written by poet Malik Mohammad Jayasi in 1540 is a fiction and has no historical basis, but still the government has shown so much interest on the movie based on a fiction. 
 
 "But when it comes to the Muslim law (triple talaq issue), the Prime Minister did not bother to consult Muslim leaders," he said.
 
 The MIM leader also asked Muslims to learn from the Rajputs who are standing in support of their queen. "They are showing a mirror to us. They have stood united on the issue and they do not want the movie to be screened. But Muslims are divided. They do not raise their voice when attempts are made to change the Islamic law," he said.
 
 Referring to VHP leader Pravin Togadia's issue, Owaisi criticised the   for its double standards in visiting him at a Gujarat hospital. Coming down heavily on Togadia for his anti-Muslim and anit-Islam talks, he wondered how the Congress can support such a person.
 
 Owaisi has been touring   and holding meetings as part of the Save Sharia campaign. Thousands of people turned up on Wednesday at the meeting held to mobilise people against any amendments in the Muslim personal law.
 
  
  
 
 
