NEW DELHI: This incident is nothing short of an apocalyptic  . But it has occurred due to the apathy of the administration that has been unable to provide potable water to the residents of  . An argument over a bucket of drinking water resulted in the death of 60-year-old Lal   in SS Nagar in   on Saturday.

 Residents of the area, however, were not surprised that such a thing had happened and seemed to have been expecting the   to snowball into death. For the past three months, a sole water tanker has been the lifeline for the 1,000-odd residents of the area.
 
 “The shortage started in January when drinking water supply from the government supply lines stopped. There was no water for three consecutive days and the water tanker started coming after our protests,” said 54-year-old Sitaram. A few days before Bahadur’s death, two men were hospitalised after fighting over filling water from the tanker. Prior to that, five men suffered head injuries in a clash between two groups.
 
 There have been multiple complaints, protests and road blockings over water, but they have fallen on deaf ears. Officials told the locals that the problem is a result of less volume of water being released by Haryana. “Local leaders blame the Haryana government and the Centre for the shortage,” Sitaram said.
 
 Phoolwati, a factory worker, said that if one misses filling up from the tanker, then it is nearly impossible to get drinking water for the day. They either request their employers to allow them to go back and fill their buckets or plead with their neighbours to do so.
 
 “If we don’t go to work, we lose money to buy food. If we miss the tanker, we don’t have water to cook that food,” she added. Even the children have been asked to pitch in and they return from school to line up at the tanker with a huge bucket. Kajal (9) said that Saturday’s fight started when Bahadur’s son Rohit was refused to fill water by the accused, Sunil, who lives a few blocks away.
 
 “Rohit was getting late for work and requested that he be allowed to fill a bucket. But Sunil, who was getting his neighbour’s buckets filled, refused to oblige and they started quarrelling. I went and told Rohit’s father about the fight,” Kajal narrated.
 
 As one tanker for the colony fails to fulfil their demands, most of the slum dwellers fetch water from the nearby industries that have their own borewells. Some even get it from east Delhi where they work.
 
 Local residents have also been complaining about suffering from stomach ailments due to drinking the muddy water coming from their taps. “We spend close to Rs 1,000 every month to buy water cans.
 
 The water from the taps is so dirty that our children are often sent back from school due to their dirty uniforms,” said Yatin Kumar, who has living in the area for the past 20 years.
 
