BENGALURU: A 38-year-old courier delivery agent set himself ablaze in front of Mico Layout traffic police station early on Sunday and later succumbed to burns after police accused him of driving under the influence of alcohol and seized his bike. 

 Family members of   K, a resident of CK Achchukattu, south Bengaluru, have alleged foul play. They have vowed to petition the police commissioner on Monday, seeking action against the guilty policemen.
 
  Manikantha, simply Mani to friends and relatives, was from Tamil Nadu. He was a driver by profession and had joined the courier firm recently. He is survived by his five-year-old son and wife, who was living separately in KR Puram after some domestic issues. 
 
 Mani was first stopped in front of the traffic police station in BTM Layout II Stage, Bannerghatta Road, for a routine drink-and-drive check. He was riding his friend's bike at the time of the incident.
 
 According to a complaint filed by N R Murthy, assistant sub-inspector of traffic police, he and his staff had flagged down Mani at   around 10.30pm on Saturday. The complaint states Mani was drunk, but refused to take an alcometer test. He allegedly told police they could seize the bike if they wanted as it was not his. He argued that he was not drunk and left.
 
  At 11.30pm, Mani returned and demanded the bike back as he had kept some valuables in it. Police claim they permitted Mani to take his valuables, but he declined to do so, demanding that they return the bike instead. 
 
 Mani then landed in front of the Mico Layout traffic police station around 2.30am and again demanded that the police release the bike. He was told that the policemen concerned had left the station and that he could return in the morning and take the bike. However, Mani rushed out of the station, doused himself in petrol from a bottle he had carried and set himself on fire.
 
 Ramakrishna, a home guard who was in the station, saw Mani in flames and rushed to his help. He managed to douse them, but sustained burns in the process. Both Ramakrishna and Mani were rushed to   where Mani succumbed to injuries around 6pm. Ramakrishna is out of danger, police said.
 
 Mico Layout law-and-order police said they first booked a case of attempt to suicide but later changed it to unnatural death. The family of the deceased, however, blamed the police for Mani's death and said the police refused to accept their complaint.
 
 "Police are cooking up stories,"  , a relative, said. "Mani died of police harassment. CK Achchukattu police refused to accept our complaint and sent us to Mico Layout police station."
 
  Advocate Ravichandra, who represents Mani's family, told TOI : "They (police) told us that Mani was under depression for two years after his wife separated from him, and that might be the reason why he took the extreme step." 
 
 Mani's father Kanakappa is a labourer and mother, Taveramma, works in an agarbatti unit. 
 
 
