KOLKATA: As many as 12 of 15 bottles of packaged  , three of these ostensibly from reputable brands, collected by   (KMC) and Kolkata Police Enforcement Branch (EB) teams have been found unfit for human consumption. Laboratory testing has found bacterial activity, including the enteric  , in these samples.

 KMC on Thursday said three of the 12 samples that had failed the test sported premium branding, including that of a state-owned brand. The samples had been collected from shops and markets around the city and sent for testing in a KMC laboratory. The civic body has deemed these samples “fakes”.
 
 The civic body’s findings are shocking, especially in the wake of the recent enteric spread in the city’s southern suburbs. Scared of the water supplied by KMC, several residents had no option but to buy packaged water — sometimes even at a premium — from the market. Now, it is anybody’s guess as to whether even that ensures safety.
 
 The samples were first collected by a team of food inspectors from shops and distributors across the city between February 16 and 18, even as enteric disease gripped several lakh residents of eight KMC wards. From February 19, the KMC team was joined by a group of EB officials. A KMC health dep-artment official commented that the samples with premium branding that had failed the test were fakes. 
 
 Emerging trends indicate that a number of unscrupulous traders in packaged water have made either Sonarpur, on the southern fringes, and Rajarhat, on the northern fringes, their activity hubs. “These businessmen are drawing groundwater, pouring it into containers, pasting fake brands and selling the items through distributors,” said the official. The civic official said the premium brands “faked and sold” in the market were mostly found from the College Street, Rajabazar, Sealdah, Chittaranjan Avenue, Mullickbazar, Park Circus and Picnic Garden areas.
 
 It is also possible that some other brands with valid licences are being faked. Rohit Bagla, owner of Bagla Food and Beverages, accused a section of traders in north Kolkata of faking a brand the company exclusively owns. “Sometimes I myself get surprised when I find my brand name at some places, and subsequent inquiry reveals an unlicensed production unit faking my brand,” Bagla alleged.
 
 A section of KMC officials conceded that the civic body had also found some traders of packaged water simply faking lesser-known but licensed brands. MMiC Atin Ghosh said KMC will also keep strict vigil over the activities of some traders who do not have valid licences. “Businessmen running plants without licences have been found faking famous or even lesser-known brands. We will intensify our vigil. But we also need support from the state government to nab the culprits,” Ghosh said.
 
 
