GURGAON: The construction of   (CPR), now part of the Dwarka  , is expected to get delayed further as Huda and   owners failed to reach a consensus on the   rate for additional 10 acres of land required for the project takeoff.

 The land owners are not willing to part with their plots for a compensation amount that is less than Rs 10 crore per acre, while Huda is not in a position to offer more than Rs 5 crore an acre. The market rate, according to sources, is Rs 4-5 crore an acre in this part of the city. 
 
 “Land owners and Huda not able to reach at a consensus over compensation, land owners are demanding very high price for their land,” said Huda administrator  .
 
 Since the urban development body couldn’t reach a consensus on the compensation amount, it is now left with only one option: to request National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) to acquire land under the emergency clause, which cannot be challenged in court.
 
  
  
 “We are trying to purchase land at market rate, but we cannot pay more than that. Now, we will request NHAI to acquire the land under the emergency clause,” a senior Huda official said, adding that the acquisition process would start soon. The acquisition of land may take three more months.
 
 Huda had acquired 102 acres of land after paying around Rs 700 crore as compensation for the construction of 3.2-km-long eight-lane road. Later, when planning for the road construction started, presence of seven 440KV high-tension electric towers, which supply power to large parts of Delhi and Gurgaon, came to light. 
 
 The electricity department had refused to relocate the 440KV high-tension towers coming in the alignment of the road, citing that they are multi-circuit towers which supply power to two different regions. Shifting of the towers would disrupt power supply to large parts of Delhi and Gurgaon. Left with no option, the authority had decided to change the alignment of the road, for which Huda has to acquire additional 10 acres of land.
 
 The construction of CPR is crucial because as per the new plan,   expressway will be connected with NH-8 on the opposite side of Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) at Kherki Daula village. A cloverleaf will also be constructed on NH-8 where both SPR and CPR meet. This, sources in Huda, said would ensure smooth flow of traffic at the stretch. 
 
 Recently, GMDA CEO V Umashankar held a meeting, in which it was decided to purchase land from villagers for Rs 5 crores per acre.
 
 
