The fire that broke out in Meenakshi-Sundareswarar temple on Friday night was a danger waiting to happen for long. Fire officers are of the opinion that the incident should be taken as a wakeup call and periodical   audit should be done in all the major temples. At present, such auditing is not being conducted in the temples.

 A higher officer in the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Service said they had pointed out the issue on many occasions earlier. However, the officials from the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department did not take precautionary steps. 
 
 He said a slew of fire accidents during temple car festivals resulted in the state government issuing a circular in 2012 to ensure fire safety audit before the procession. Similarly, the Meenakshi Amman temple fire incident should be taken as a wakeup call to ensure periodical audit.
 
 "It is not that we have not warned about the fire before, but the warnings went unheard. We have given suggestions for streamlining electrical lines during meetings. We had also warned against storing plastic items in the shops," he said.
 
 Shopkeepers in the temples won’t spend money for safety and end up using low quality wires. Unscientific and inappropriate connections and wiring are also an issue, he said. 
 
 Another officer said at present fire safety inspections are carried out only during festivals such as ‘kumbabishekam’, where temporary thatched roofs would be created to cater the huge gathering. "Not many temples in the state have so many shops on the premises. The officials should have been extra cautious considering the number of shops in the temple," he said.
 
 According to the officers, electrical short circuit is suspected to be the cause of the Friday fire in the temple too.
 
 However, joint commissioner of Meenakshi Amman Temple N Natarajan said that they have not received any fire safety suggestions, at least since he assumed office in the last three and half years . Surely they would have initiated steps if they were alerted, he said.
 
 
