JAIPUR: A day after a tiger got trapped in a barbed wire fence and choked to death in  , another   died in Ranthambhore after it was tranquillised while being rescued from a village on Tuesday.

 The twin deaths have ignited a controversy, with green activists calling it a “black day” for wildlife in Rajasthan and alleging that the tiger died due to a tranquilliser overdose.
 
 
 The 13-year-old male tiger T-28, famously known as ‘Star’ or ‘Sitara’ in   (RNP), was being rescued from a village in Khandar area on the park’s periphery, said forest officials.
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Jaipur: It had strayed close to village Chaan, where people had surrounded it. A forest department team reached the spot to rescue the big cat and tranquillised it.
 
 “The tiger was tranquillised and rescued. It was brought to Gudda forest area where it died at 1pm,” chief conservator of forest at Sawai Madhopur,  , said.
 
 “As per the post-mortem report, the tiger died due to gastric torsion in cardia (upper opening of the stomach),” Sahu said.
 
 Wildlife lovers alleged that both deaths took place due to the forest department’s apathy. Late on Monday, a male tiger from Sariska,  , was found dead in an agriculture field. The four-year-old big cat got strangulated after getting enmeshed in a barbwire fence put by a farmer to stop wild animals from damaging his crops. The farmer informed the authorities about the incident. Yet another tiger, a female, ST-5, from Sariska has been missing for past 25-days.
 
 Questioning the death of T-28 on Tuesday, Simrat Sandhu, a wildlife enthusiast, said, “It was a healthy male. The death was caused due to an overdose of tranquillisation, which was done in haste. There is no transparency in the forest department. Even the tiger’s age is being misquoted. This tiger was 11years old not 13 years as being claimed by the forest department. We demand that the viscera report be sent to Bareilly, so that actual cause of the death can be known.”
 
 T-28 had been a dominant male tiger for a long time and raised two generations of tigers in RNP through tigresses T-17 and T-19, which are daughters of the legendary tigress “Machli”. The “Star” fathered nine cubs – six from T-19 (T-63, 64, 65, 83, 84 and 85) and three from T-17 (T-73, 74, and 75).
 
 Foreign tourists knew T-28 as “Star”, while locally it famous as “Sitara”. T-28 had a five-point star mark on its left eye, hence the name. The tiger was pushed out of its territory by another dominant male T-95 into the periphery areas around a yearand-a-half back. Since then, T-28 had been moving in RNP’s periphery areas.
 
 Earlier, the ‘Star’ ruled over the territory of Rajbagh (core area) and Jhumar Bawri of RNP.
 
