MUMBAI: On Saturday, three blues bands battled it out at the True School of Music for a chance to perform at the upcoming   Festival. The Kolkata-based band, Arinjoy Trio, won over the judges with their musicianship and feel for the blues. “When we heard them playing the first song, we knew this guy (Arinjoy) was a pro,” said music director Ehsaan Noorani, who picked the winners, along with music director Loy Mendonsa. “He can play in a blues festival anywhere in the world. He is so good,” said Noorani. 

 Led by guitarist Arinjoy Sarkar, the three-year-old band has Sounak Roy on drums and Aakash Ganguly on bass—the three musicians who, as Ganguly puts it, “started speaking the same language”. “It’s a dream come true to play at a prestigious festival like this,” said Sarkar, “especially in front of so many blues greats that we love and worship.” 
 
 This year’s   received 30 entries from across the country. Besides Arinjoy Trio, the final round saw live performances by  , a blues band from Bengaluru with influences from Chicago and Delta styles, and  , an instrumental rock project who performs old school jazz to Hindustani Classical, based out of Delhi.
 
 “Year after year, the Mahindra Blues Band Hunt gives bands across the country a platform to showcase their talent,” said Mendonsa. “This year was no different; we had three technically proficient bands perform unique and soulful music. It was a tough decision for us to select one winner.”
 
 Having won the Band Hunt, Arinjoy Trio will perform on the second day of the Mahindra Blues Festival—Asia’s largest blues festival to be held on February 10 and 11. The festival’s star-studded line-up includes the Godfather of British Blues’, John Mayall; the original Wolfman who combines rhythm and blues, Walter ‘Wolfman’ Washington; astounding blues-rock guitar virtuoso, Coco Montaya; magical powerhouse, Layla Zoe; and local Mumbai-bred band, Blackstratblues. Noorani and Mendonsa plan to catch Arinjoy Trio’s performance at the fest.
 
 Arinjoy Trio picked numbers with different tempos like ‘Sky is crying’ by Elmore James—which they dedicated to The Mojo Hand, because they are big fans of the guitarist—and an original ‘Cold Cold Cold’ and ‘Honey Hush’ by Albert Collins. After the performance, the judges praised Arinjoy Trio’s ability to connect with the audience and each other through eye contact and other non-verbal cues. “The main thing is you have fun,” said Noorani, “and it’s always good to share that fun with everyone else on stage.”
 
 The point of the Band Hunt is to discover “raw blues talent”, said Jay Shah, head of cultural outreach at Mahindra & Mahindra. And, the judges find it heartening to hear these young musicians every year. “It’s fantastic to see the new generation, which is completely ruled by pop, playing this kind of music,” said Noorani.
 
 (The Mahindra Blues Festival in association with The Times of India is co-sponsored by The Glenlivet Books, Gledo & Mahindra Finance. The festival is promoted and produced by Oranjuice Entertainment. Tickets available on bookmyshow.com)
 
