NEW DELHI: Currently in   custody, businessman   got partial relief on Friday from the Delhi high court, which restrained the   (ED) from arresting him till March 20.

 A bench of Justices S Muralidhar and I S Mehta said in case Karti gets bail in the CBI case regarding the alleged graft in the INX Media matter, the ED won’t arrest him on money laundering charges till the court takes up his plea on March 20.
 
 Karti, son of former finance minister and senior   leader  , was then remanded in CBI custody for three more days by a special court.
 
 “If the CBI court grants bail to the petitioner in the CBI case, no coercive steps shall be exercised against the petitioner by the ED under Section 19 (power to arrest) of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA),” the bench noted and issued notice to the ED and the Centre on Karti’s plea seeking to challenge proceedings in the money laundering case.
 
 While granting relief to Karti, the bench directed him not to leave the country and to surrender his passport. If the trial court decides to grant him bail, the HC specified, he would be required to cooperate with the ED. Senior lawyers Kapil Sibal and  , representing Karti, told the court there was serious apprehension that the ED would effect sequential arrests of their client once he emerged from CBI custody. Karti’s plea was opposed by additional solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the ED, who contended the probe was at a crucial stage and the agency had already found “cogent, substantial, reliable and unimpeachable material” against him. Justifying the need for custodial interrogation, ASG Mehta claimed “any relief from the high court will also affect the case pending before the trial court.” Mehta submitted it was “very, very dangerous” that the accused was circumventing Section 438 (direction for grant of bail to person apprehending arrest) of the CrPC, and directly moving the writ court.
 
 But Sibal countered the claim, saying the heavens would not fall if he was protected from arrest and the ED was free to interrogate him. “They had these documents prior to my interrogation. How can the ED place the documents before the court without putting it to me?” Sibal argued.
 
 Karti sought the court's direction to strike down the ED’s powers of arrest under Section 19 of the PMLA as unconstitutional and in violation of Articles 14 and 21 dealing with rights of people for equality before law and protection of personal liberty.
 
 
