8.7 million and counting! That’s how many views the trailer of   has raked in since its release on March 18. All thanks to   who’s been stealing hearts, one dialogue at time, in the most endearing Godavari yaasa (dialect, for the uninitiated), playing a village bumpkin with a hearing problem. “Na peru   andi, ee ooriki maname engineeru... Andariki sound inapadaddiandi, naku kanapadaddandi,” declares the Mega Power Star as he introduces himself in the teaser which has clocked 13,570,737 views. “We shot that scene on the first day of shoot. Charan asked me if he should come prepared, but I told him to come to the set as a blank canvas, and he did. As soon as I narrated the scene he got so involved in it and delivered the punch dialogue in a single take! Chitti Babu is a really lovable character and Charan just breathed life into it,” says director Sukumar who is overjoyed with the response the trailer has generated. 
Admittedly, the inspiration to go completely rural came from an interaction with a fan in US. “It was after my last film, Nannaku Prematho released. A man asked me why I wasn’t making films which have Telugu nativity? I felt ashamed, because my roots are in my village (Mattaparru). Even though I didn’t have a story then, that day I decided that whatever film I made next would be a story set in a village.”
 Set in the ’80s, Rangasthalam is a rustic tale that takes you back to a time when life was “pure and beautiful”. Sukumar explains, “Caught up in the digital age, we live in a time where life doesn’t happen on a face-to-face basis anymore. Back in the, 80s life was very simple and I wanted to show how stunning and intimate the world was back then.” 
 A lot of research went into recreating the era, claims the director. “Be it the attire, or the village ambience or the dialect, we did a lot of research to ensure everything was spot on. My brother has really good memory and he remembers even the minute details, so I took his help,” he says.
 The filmmaker is all praise for music director  , lyricist Chandra Bose and DOP Rathnavelu for their role in bringing the world of Rangasthalam to life. “I believe any artiste or technician waits for the day he gets to work on a subject close to his heart and I guess Rangasthalam was that for everyone involved.   infused raw emotions in the film with his lyrics. And   composed the five songs in a span of only three-and-a-half days. As for Rathnavelu, he’s simply superb. He defined the film’s psychology with his work and he’s simply amazing. He is, and will forever be, my favourite cameraman ever,” he gushes signing off.
 
