AGRA: Girls outshone boys in the Class XII exams, results of which were declared by the   ( ) on Saturday. This time, 85% of students have passed the boards in Agra district. A total 10,878 students had appeared for the  .
 
  Mansi Agarwal with 97.6% marks topped the district. Amit Jindal with 97.4% and Divyansh Gupta secured second and third place, respectively. The Agra division topper was Lalit Agarwal of Mathura’s Shriji Baba Saraswati Mandir. He scored 98.4% marks.
  
  Mansi Agarwal, from the Science stream, secured first position in the district. She is a student of John Milton Public School. Her father Amit Agarwal is a businessman. After declaration of the results, people gathered at her residence in north Idgha to congratulate her. Mansi, it seemed, has no time to celebrate as she was busy preparing for AIIMS entrance exam, which is on Sunday. She wants to become a cardiologist. 
  
  “All the family members are happy with my performance which is very satisfying. My parents always encouraged me give my best and not to care about results. Hard work and positive mindset is key to scoring good marks in the board exams,” Mansi said.
  
  Amit Jindal, who bagged second position in the district, is a student of Saraswati Vidhya Mandir, Kamla Nagar. This student of science scored the highest marks in his school. For him, life has been tough ever since he lost his father to cancer in 2012. After his father’s death, his family has had to face financial problems. But this did not distract Amit from his studies. His mother, Renu Jindal, said he focused on his studies throughout the year. He never complaint he long distance he had to traverse in order to go to school by cycle. Now, Amit has pinned his hopes on becoming an engineer.
  
  The third topper, Divyansh Gupta, bagged the second place in the district in the science stream. He is away on pilgrimage to Vaishno Devi temple in Jammu and Kashmir with his family. A student of St Andrews Public School, Divyansh is the son of Kaushal Kishor Gupta, a jeweller who owns a shop in Iradat Nagar. The family lives in block Sainya.
  
  In Firozabad district, Harshvardhan of Kids Corner School topped with 98% marks. He was also the second topper in Agra Division. Vishal Babu of Tulip Public School scored 96.6% marks and topped in Etah district. In Mainpuri, Divyansh Rathore of Suditi Global Academy scored 96.4% marks. In Kasganj district, Gaurav Bharadwaj, scored 94.4% marks. All these students belong to the Science stream.
