KOLKATA: The Calcutta High Court lawyers’ bodies on Monday decided to extend their month-long cease-work by another fortnight and insisted that they wanted the Centre to spell out a specific time frame on the appointment of judges. The three bodies — Calcutta High Court Bar Association, Bar Library Club and the   —which met during the day, felt that mere assurances by the Union law minister   isn’t enough to call off the strike.

 By extending the strike by another fortnight till April 2, this cease work at the high court is the longest since the two-month strike over stamp duty hike in 2002. In 1990 and 1995 too, the lawyers went on a month-and-a-half-long ceasework. 
  
 
 
 Calcutta High Court had 2.2 lakh cases pending in January 2018. In all, 5,250 cases were disposed that month but 4,979 fresh cases were lodged.
 
 Given this disposal rate and the registration of new cases, the month-long cease-work may already have impacted nearly 10,000 cases. In the next fortnight, the backlog number could go up to 15,000. Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra, at a meeting with a delegation of lawyers’ bodies in New Delhi on Friday had appealed to them to withdraw the cease-work.
 
 As the office-bearers (who were part of the delegation) apprised the lawyers of the outcome of the meeting with the CJI and the Union law minister, a majority felt mere assurances were not enough. The lawyers argued the Centre should set a time frame. The Centre had assured the lawyers that seven names recommended by the Calcutta High Court has already been sent to the Supreme Court Collegium with the   reports. 
 
 Five names recommended in December 2017 were with the IB. It also assured that it is processing acting chief justice Jyotirmoy Bhattacharya’s elevation as the chief justice of Calcutta High Court. The lawyers’ bodies had variously described the meetings as “positive”. However, this wasn’t enough to soothe the agitating lawyers. To make a point, the lawyers held a protest rally from HC to the Raj Bhawan.
 
 According to the Calcutta High Court calendar the HC will remain closed for its fortnight long summer break from May 18-June 3. May would have 13 working days due to the May 9 holiday for   April, however, is afull-working month of 19 days if the lawyers’ bodies work from April 3.
 
