AMRITSAR: Alleging that keeping them away from their religious roots and places in India would only encourage their conversion to Islam,  , who arrived here on a pilgrimage, expressed resentment against being granted single city visa as they failed to celebrate Mahashivratri on Tuesday due to bureaucratic formalities.

 Karachi-based Shri Guru Seva Welfare Trust president Mukesh Rana, who is leading the Pakistani Hindu jatha to India, blamed the Indian government for not giving liberal visas to them, which was keeping young Pakistani Hindus away from their religious places. “We are not being given visas to travel to Hardwar, Varanasi and other Hindu religious places in India. Disappointed, our young ones are being forced to think of merging with the local population, which in another way is encouraging conversion of Hindus in Pakistan,” maintained Rana.
 
 A jatha of 143 Hindus from Sindh province of Pakistan had arrived in India on a pilgrimage on Monday. Of thesre, 98 and 45 pilgrims have only visa for Amritsar for five and 15 days, respectively.
 
 “Two days have already passed and two more left as we will leave on the fifth day. Today, we spent the whole day in the registration process and couldn’t celebrate Mahashivratri. We have applied for visa extension for 20 days to visit Hardwar,” said Rana. Worried over no extension of visa, Samiya Swami, a Pakistani Hindu woman who had brought ashes of her mother to be immersed in the   at Haridwar, said, “My mother’s last wish was to get her ashes immersed in the Ganges and her last rituals be performed on the bank of the holy river at Hardwar. I kept the ashes at my home for two years, waiting for the Indian visa but I am disappointed that I can’t go to Hardwar.”
 
 She appealed to Indian external affairs minister   to intervene and extend their duration of stay in India to 20 days and allow them to visit Hardwar. Rana said 12 Hindu pilgrims were carrying ashes of their family members and if they wouldn’t be able to go to Hardwar to perform their last rights, they would be forced to take it back. “Again, there will be an endless wait for the Indian visa, especially for Hardwar,” he said.
 
 
