JAIPUR: Fresh troubles are brewing for chief minister Vasundhara Raje’s ambitious Dravyavati river project as many farmers whose lands were allegedly acquired are intensifying their protest.

 These farmers alleged that more than 600 bighas of private land is acquired without providing compensation and BJP government has proposed to earn revenue after auctioning.
 
 On Saturday, a delegation of farmers met leader of opposition Rameshwar Dudi to raise the issue in assembly which is scheduled to start from February 5.
 
 Ashok Mehta, a member of Dravyavati Nadi Kisan Sangrash Samiti, said, “In the past 15 months, Tata firm on the directions of  , has destroyed the crop of farmers and demolished the structures, wells on the farm land without issuing the notices. The state government is encroaching our lands without providing compensation,” he said.
 
 Farmers further alleged that the state government has proposed to earn revenue of Rs 32,000 crore after reclaiming 85 hectares of land from Dravyavati river. For the same, auction has been proposed on February 12 to sell 25,000 metres land in front of Bombay Hospital.
 
 “The   (JDA) has fixed a base price of Rs 20,000 per square metre. However, it is not providing compensation to private farmers whose land has been acquired. The JDA should provide compensation as per Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. We would intensified our protest, if government fails to meet our demand,” said Kalu Ram, another farmer.
 
 On Saturday , the farmers have called a meeting at Bullar dam Sanganear to discuss the strategy to intensify the protest. The samiti said earliermore than 40 farmers have filed cases against JDA for acquiring their land. The civic body was carrying out the drive illegally as JDA’s tribunal court has granted a stay.
 
 “JDA officials had forcefully chopped trees and demolished structures constructed on farmers’ lands. As per the Indian Constitution, every citizen has the right to protest for legal land rights. JDA has adopted a dictatorial method and demolishing the houses of poor farmers,” said a samiti member.
 
 The state government has set August 15 as the final deadline for the completion of proposed 47-km-long Dravyavati river front project. After Bajri ban, farmers protest might hamper the pace of the project.
 
 
