Tirupur: Most members of the arunthathiyar community at Theerthampalayam near Kangeyam are not ready to openly support the family which was forced to fall at the feet of a few gounders during a kangaroo court held in the village recently.  Some key members of the dalit community resent the fact that the family did not consult them before lodging a police complaint against the gounders. They also feel that supporting the family could jeopardize the unity among both the communities in administering arunthathiyar’s temple at Theerthampalayam hamlet in Paranchervali panchayat.  Meanwhile, the family demanded an apology from the gounders, who forced to fall at their feet, to withdraw the FIR registered by the police. But the gounders concerned had declined the demand. According to a legend, arunthathiyars in Theerthampalayam were stopped by another dalit community people from entering a temple in the hamlet. Arunthathiyars established Mahaliamman temple with the support of gounders at Theerthampalayam. At present, gounders from nine hamlets and arunthathiyars are administering the temple jointly. Recently, the Mahaliamman temple was spruced up with monetary contribution from gounders. Both the communities jointly organized Kumbabishekam festival. Though traditionally the temple’s priest would be from arunthathiyar community, a brahmin priest was appointed to conduct rituals of Kumbabishekam festival, which was conducted as per Agama rules. Arunthathiyars were promised that their community priest will be allowed once 48 days of Mandala Puja completed. “Traditionally, gounders would make donations, especially buffaloes and goats, apart from money, for three-day annual festival of the temple in Tamil month of Thai. Except few incidents, there were no incidents happened in a way of oppressing arunthathiyars generally,” said V Sakthivel, 45, the head of the victim family. “But now, a few gounders in Shanmughampalayam hamlet crossed their limits and humiliated our family,” said Devi, 40, who and her 19-year-old daughter were forced to fall at the feet of gounders. “Lodging a police complaint against gounders could make cracks in relationship between the two communities. Moreover, Sakthivel and his family did not consult us before filing the police complaint. We wanted them to settle the issue amicably,” said a key member of the temple administration. However, many other arunthathiyars told TOI that though they were firmly against what happened to Sakthivel’s family, they could not come out and support them openly because of the community’s common decision. When contacted, a gounder who took part in the kangaroo court, which ordered the dalit family to fall at their feet or pay fine of Rs 5,000, told TOI that “It was wrong to force such punishment.” But many other gounders, especially the accused in the case, were seemed not to realize the same.