HYDERABAD: Fraudsters are collecting   (GST) from   Few cases of fraudsters claiming to be from ‘Make In India’ portal and three cases of collection of ‘GST’ from unemployed were registered with Cyber Crime police, Hyderabad commissionerate.

 Cops booked a case when JS Rawoof of Mehdipatnam alleged that he was cheated in the name of Make in India company, wherein he deposited Rs 1.65 lakh for a job in Jet Airways. The fraudsters claimed they were from a government job portal started by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and that of the Rs 1.65 lakh paid, Rs 65,860 was for GST.
 
 
 Rawoof alleged, in the complaint, “I got a call stating that my resume was selected from a job portal. I attendedthe online test but I was rejected. The person claiming to be Arjun of Make In India promised to pass me in thetest and asked me to deposit money. When I went to the airport and inquired, I found itwas fake. ”
 
 Cyber crime police registered the second case for cheating, criminal breach of trust, impersonation and sections of theITAct after another person P Yadagiri of Veer Nagar in Khairatabad, was cheated in the name of Makein India.
 
 He alleged in his complaint, “I received a callfrom a person claiming to be from Make In India at   in New Delhi. They arranged a phone-in interview with Jet Airways HR and they told me I was selected for cabin crew executive staff at RGIA. They collected 1.71 lakh refundable deposit for an online exam, processing fee, training fee, dress code, accommodation, passport amount. Later, their number was switchedoff.”
 
 In the third case, a victim, seeking a loan, paid Rs 11,200 as GST.  , from Nandi Nagar, Banjara Hills, lodged a complaint with cyber crime sleuths saying he contacted Pioneer Finance corporation after seeing an advertisement and paid Rs 79,400, including Rs 11,200 as GST, for a loan that was never sanctioned.
 
 In the fourth case registered in the past 15 days, two fraudsters duped L Balaji, an engineer from Mehdipatnam, who uploaded the resume of his son-in-law on a portal for a job in Metro Rail as ticketing executive. Two persons collected Rs 1.12 lakh from him .
 
 In thefifthcase, a victim deposited Rs1.1 lakh after he was promised a job with Axis Bank. Sandeep Gunjote, the victim, alleged that he received a mail regarding a job opportunity in   and was asked to pay money, which he deposited.
 
 “We are pursuing the cases. In 2017, we had booked 53 cases of job and visa fraud, while in 2016, 61 cases were registered,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (cyber crime) KCS Raghu Vir.
 
