MANGALURU/TUMAKURU/GADAG/SHIVAMOGA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday described Congress’ move to oppose the ‘triple talaq’ bill in Rajya Sabha as symptomatic of its ‘anti-women’ mindset.

 
 Assailing the Congress for what he said was the blocking of the bill, Modi wondered how long should Muslim women be allowed to suffer.
 
 Addressing a rally in Mangaluru, he said: “Isn’t it a reality that because of triple talaq injustice is being heaped on Muslim women? They are being given talaq on WhatsApp and left without any home or shelter. Shouldn’t such (harried) women get their due?”
 
 Stopping short of referring to the Shah Bano case, Modi said Rajiv Gandhi let go of an opportunity due to vote-bank compulsions. “The Congress (with a brute majority) overturned the SC judgment in Parliament,” Modi said, adding that the grand old party did so to ensure that it remains in power and left women to their fate.
 
 When the BJP sought to come up with a law to undo this injustice, Congress yet again thwarted the passage of the bill. “Should we allow a party that continues to insult women come to power,” he asked.
 
 “For Congress, it has always been about one family. But for me, I think about 125 crore Indians who are my family,” Modi said, adding this is reflected in the manner in which the Congress treated its stalwarts such as D Devaraj Urs and Veerendra Patil in Karnataka.
 
 Earlier in Shivamogga, Modi referred to the Hublot watch allegedly gifted to CM Siddaramaiah, saying the watch has a connection with the famous Jog Falls. “I don’t know what was happening behind the scenes,” he said, indicating that the CM received the costly watch as a kickback over the issue of development of Jog Falls.
 
 He raised the recent I-T raids on residences of Congress leaders by referring to demonetisation. “Poor people supported my decision. But Congress opposed it. I came to know the truth behind their opposition only when I-T officers traced cash to the bedrooms of Congress leaders,” he said.
 
 Referring to AICC president Rahul Gandhi’s queries on tainted BJP candidates, Modi said Congress too has fielded corrupt leaders like Ladduwalas. “Who are they?” he wondered.
 
 At his first rally of the day in Tumakuru, the Prime Minister alleged that Congress and JD(S) have entered into a “poll alliance behind the curtains”.
 
 “They are only fooling the people. While Congress and JD(S) fight here in Tumakuru, their leaders in Bengaluru have made a pact (in BBBP) and elected a mayor. It is high time Congress stops uttering lies and makes it clear to the people of Tumakuru and Karnataka on their alliance with the JD(S). This drama should stop,” he said.
 
 “During previous elections, Gowda had said he would commit suicide if Modi won and formed the government. It was a tough battle and he opposed us. Despite knowing his stand, we came here and told him that we have great respect for him and that he should continue to live for 100 years,” he said.
 
