BHOPAL: Residents of   might as well be taking out thicker quilts andsweaters as the New Year got off to a chilly start. The city recorded its coldest day of the season on Wednesday.

 Maximum temperature in thecity droppedto22.6degree Celsius — a degree less than the normal mark, and the minimum temperature nosedived to 7.7 degree Celsius— a drop of 1.5degree from 10.2 degree Celsius recorded on Tuesday. The night temperature was also 2 degree less than the normal mark.
 
  
 Officials in the meteorological department, Bhopal circle attributed the dip in temperature to thedecreased moisture in the air and northerly cold winds blowing in the state in the absence of any system. Similar weather is likely to prevail for another day, after which there could be a marginal respite from cold, said the officials.
 
 Night temperature in Bhopal’s neighbouring district,   was recorded at 3 degree Celsius, while Panchmari — the verdant jewel of MP—was shivering at 2degreeCelsius.TheMetofficials said that there would be an effect of western disturbance over   after January 4, leading to marginal rise in nighttemperature due to moisture incursion.
 
 However, the temperature may dip again once the system clears. Reduced moisture in the air increased the visibility in morning hours in Bhopal. On Wednesday morning, the visibility was 4,000 metres. The wind direction in the city was northerly and the average wind speed was10kilometres per hour.
 
 In the forecast for Bhopal on Thursday the met officials said, there would be a clear sky and weather is most likely to be dry over the city. Day and nighttemperature would be respectively at 23 and 8 degree Celsius and average wind speed will be10kmph. In theforecastfor statethe met officials issued a warning of moderate to dense fog at a few places over Gwalior, Chambal, Sagar and   divisions and at isolated places over Ujjain and Shahdol divisions. There is a chance of cold day at isolated places over Gwalior, Chambal, Sagar and Rewa divisions.
 
 
