MUMBAI: After months of making rich pickings off unsuspecting commuters to fund his online gambling habit, a jeweller-turned-train thief recently ran out of luck. 

  Vinod Jain, 38, was caught red-handed by commuters while stealing a bag from the overhead rack of a local train and handed over to the police. According to police, Jain is involved in at least 10 thefts on the  . 
 
 Jain, a Jaipur native, had been living in a rented apartment at Virar with his mother, wife and two schoolgoing daughters.
 
 Police said Jain initially had a jewellery store in Rajasthan. "Jain's business was not doing well and he moved it to Surat. But he did not do well there either and, three years ago, he moved his business to Naigaon, near Vasai. In every city, he ran a 'gold bhishi' or investment scheme (the scheme is banned by the Indian government). In Naigaon, he got hooked to online lottery and started spending large sums of money on it. After his funds dried up, he moved back to Rajasthan," a police official said.
 
 A year and half ago, he returned to Mumbai and took up a job as a jewellery salesman at  . He did this job for six months. On day, he overheard a local train commuter complain how his bag had been stolen from a crowded compartment.
 
 It struck Jain it could be his quick-fix to make money. He quit his job and started stealing bags from overhead racks. He would target crowded first-class compartments, swiping everything from laptops, cash, ATM cards and anything else he found inside bags. He would withdraw money using the ATM cards wherever pin numbers were written on the card covers. "Last month, commuters caught him stealing and handed him to the Churchgate GRP outpost," said a police official. 
 
 Meanwhile, various GRP outposts had been going through CCTV footage as an increasing number of bag thefts were being reported. Jain was found to be involved in five thefts in  's jurisdiction, two in Mumbai Central and two in Borivli, besides the case in Churchgate. He had been captured on camera in few of the instances.
 
 "Investigation showed he had transferred Rs 69,500 to his wife's SBI account in Ratlam. Two laptops that he had given for repair and sale were also recovered," said senior inspector Sunil Jadhav, Bandra GRP.
 
 Jain is in the custody of Mumbai Central GRP.
 
 
