CHENNAI: Police arrested three people, including a police constable, at Trichy’s central bus terminus early on Saturday for trying to sell two unlicensed guns to potential buyers.

 The incident, coming less than 24 hours after the Chennai police on Friday morning arrested two men at   station and seized five pistols and 20 rounds of ammunition, has sent alarm bells ringing among police about a growing gun culture in the state.
 
 The only common link so far is that all the seven guns came from the Jharkhand-Bihar region, while the seizure in Friday’s incident of fake ₹2,000 notes, with a face value of ₹4 lakh, added another dimension to the issue.
 
 The accused in the Trichy incident, constable Parameswaran and his accomplices   and Siva, were nabbed based on a specific tip received by   (OCIU) wing inspector Senthil Kumar of the Thanjavur unit. While examining their bags, police found two pistols and 10 bullets, which were seized from them.
 
 “We received a tip through an informer that a gang was trying to sell off a pistol and ammunition for ₹1.5 lakh,” said a police officer. A plan was devised and a policeman sent as a decoy to negotiate with the sellers. The ‘buyer’ contacted the three men and asked them to bring the guns for an examination.
 
 
 
 
 As instructed, he bundled the cash in a backpack, inspected the guns at a hotel near the Central Bus Terminus and left the bag with cash at the designated spot in a bus bay inside the terminus. The OCIU wing police, who were watching over the bag, pounced on Parameswaran as he picked it up. Later they picked up Nagaraj and Siva, natives of Chennai and Pattukottai.
 
 During interrogation, police found that the three men had been buying pistols for cheap in states like Bihar, Assam, Jharkhand and West Bengal and selling them to criminals in Tamil Nadu for lakhs of rupees over the past couple of months. All three accused have been sent to jail.
 
 Police had long believed that the crime scene in Tamil Nadu was under control mainly because guns were never able to penetrate its cities. After the arrest of S ‘Police’ Fakruddin, Bilal Malik and   from a hideout in Puthur in Andhra Pradesh, even the occasional crude ‘bomb’ explosions had died down, said officers, with OCIU and ‘Q’ Branch sleuths keeping a tight vigil. Now, the situation seems to have changed.
 
