KOLKATA: The regional officer of the   has been transferred out less than three months after being posted here.

 The order, signed by an information and broadcasting ministry undersecretary on April 3, states   regional officer Samrat Bandyopadhyay has now been posted as the deputy director of Kolkata’s  .
 
 Partha Ghosh, who has been the deputy director of Kolkata’s PIB, will take over as the regional officer of CBFC. The transfer order comes close on the heels of a series of allegations against the regional officer to Union I&B minister  . Two phone calls to Bandyopadhyay regarding the transfer went unanswered; there was no response to a text message either.
 
 
 
 
 Samrat Bandyopadhyay took over as the CBFC’s regional officer on January 8 this year after serving as the deputy director of New Delhi’s PIB. One of the highlights of his stint was the series of letters — some complaints and some praising his work — that went from producers to the CBFC.
 
 This issue also came up in a letter to Irani signed by majority of the members of the CBFC’s advisory panel. “The board does not need letters of appreciation for certifying movies on time. Some directors and producers have complained about the letters of appreciation. Many said they feared protests might jeopardise the release of their films,” an insider, privy to the letter sent to Irani, said.
 
 Advisory panel members have raised more than half-a-dozen instances of “illegal and unconstitutional activities” at the CBFC’s regional office that allegedly violated the Cinematograph Act. Rule 22(2), for instance, requires four members of the advisory panel and an examining officer to be present during the examination of a long film. “Half of this panel has to be women. However, there were instances where the process of examining films started without the requisite number of women being present on board. This flouts the Cinematograph Act,” one of the members told TOI, adding that there were complaints about the regional officer not being present throughout the period when films were being examined on certain occasions.
 
