 is all of two films old, but the   2015 finalist is clear about what she wants and is willing to go the distance, even if that means learning and unlearning at every step in her quest to refine her art. The actress is set to make her   debut with Home Minister, which, ironically, will be Real Star Upendra’s last   before he steps into full-time politics. Speaking about her role, she says, “Home Minister is a commercial movie that has a lot of comedy elements in it. I play a modern, independent air hostess, who lands in trouble and is helped by  , as a result of which their friendship blooms. We’ve completed the talkie portions of the film, and only one song remains to 
be shot.”
 
 So, what is it like acting with someone like Upendra, and that too in what could be his last film? “I feel privileged that I caught him just in time. When you’re around Upendra, you’re always learning something new about films and the filmmaking process. He’s an actor, director, writer, producer, cinematographer all combined into one. You walk out of the set every day more knowledgeable than the day before. And, despite having such a command over filmmaking, he’s so humble and chilled out, which made working with him such a pleasure,” says the actress. Tanya will be seen in another Kannada movie, and opposite another big star, Darshan. Speaking about the movie and her role in it, she says, “The opportunity to work in Yajamana opened up during Home Minister. Filmmaker Shylaja Nag noticed me and contacted me for the role. I play an investigative journalist who join hands with Darshan to expose a few dirty secrets. I love my role, and the script because despite having commercial elements, it has a much-needed message.”
 
 The Bengaluru-born actress’ first brush with fame came when she finished as one of the five finalists at the Miss India 2015 pageant — an experience she claims as the ‘most enriching’ in her life so far. She elaborates, saying, “An experience such as a Miss India pageant opens up doors for you that normally wouldn’t. It gives you visibility and thrusts you into the radar of those who are on the lookout for sustainable talent. Not only that, it opens up your eyes to the magnitude of the entertainment industry, and gives you the belief that if you work hard enough, there will be a place for you here. Miss India has been the most enriching experience in my life.”
 
 Movies and modelling aside, what else is the pretty lass enthusiastic about? “I love travelling, and love to dance. I’m not trained professionally, but I have many friends who are, so hanging out with them means learning a step or two. I dance my best when I’m feeling low, because I feel that brings out the best in me. Dance is one reason I’m more excited about Yajamana; it will have my first full-length dance sequence in a film,” she professes. Tanya’s upcoming movies include Thadam, a Tamil film alongside Arun Vijay and the Telugu film Paperboy, opposite Santosh Shobhan. While she’s excited about the projects, she shares the kind of work ethics that she’d like to have to land roles with a difference. “I’d love to act out extremely intense roles — the ones that involve a lot of research, many hours of hard work to get into character and push me to the edge. If your roles don’t make you do that, how else will they inspire you to do a good job? There needs to be that level of investment in a role, because for me, it’s not art if it’s casual. I’m willing to put in that kind of effort because I love what I do,” she says.
 
 
