Questions that always bothered us but we thought were too silly to ask 
 
 
 
 
 He will definitely get the pay and perks for being CM but surprise, surprise, he may choose not to claim them. Ouch!
 
 
 The MLAs we spoke to say they are not really “resort-ready” all the time (at least, that’s what they say) but what comes in handy is the extra set of clothes they usually keep in their cars. Their bags, with the essentials and luxe essentials, reach the resort the next day.
 
 
 
 
 Forget clothes, the problem, say our sources, is with innerwear. Andar ki baat hai. In fact, when a team of BJP legislators was shifted to a resort in Chennai, most ran out of fresh innerwear (yeah, right, they must’ve tried turning it out too). Helpless handlers went in search of vests and briefs in the middle of the night and managed to buy a few at the Chennai Central railway station.
 
 
 
 
 Are you kidding? Of course, it is an all-expenses paid trip. When your vote is as precious as that, nobody’s asking if you touched the Pringles (and beer) in the fridge. And yes, it’s not just the minibar, additional massage and spa services are for the asking too.
 
 
 
 
 They don’t have the time. While resorts are for seclusion, MLAs are usually in endless meetings or busy being seen doing outdoors activities. Remember, a politician must always be connected with the crowd, even if it is through a piece-to-camera from the pool.
 
 
 
 Resort stay is a hostel experience for most MLAs (remember, it’s called an MLA hostel). They usually come in groups to the dining hall, eat, chat and get back to their rooms.
 
 
 
 This time, it was KPCC office staff who did a count on the instruction of senior party leaders, mainly DK Shivakumar.
 
 
 
 
 Normally, such visits are converted into official trips by holding namesake review meetings and claiming the tour and fuel allowance as well.
 
 
 
 
 Seating arrangements are usually done by the assembly secretariat staff in advance. But when   was taking the floor test, for instance, Congress ensured that one or two senior leaders were seated in each row to keep an eye on the MLAs.
 
