Two decades in the industry as a music composer, D  , who comes across as a calm, but talkative and optimistic person, has seen several highs and lows in his career. A proud teetotaller, who has a clear vision about his priorities in life and career, this ambitious musician gets chatty about his journey over the years, the struggles he faced, his concerns while composing music, the challenges he encounters, his expectations from a few upcoming projects and why family is of utmost importance to him. Excerpts:

 
 I feel so blessed... I think this isn’t an ordinary feat, considering that I hail from a non-filmi background. All thanks to God’s grace and the love from my music lovers. I started my career in 2001 and it’s been 17 years now. I’m thankful to those people who stood by me during the release of my album and movies. I’m sure there are many more to come.
 
 
 To be honest, the number doesn’t matter much to me. If that was the case, I would have considered my 25th or 50th or 75th films special. But my acquaintances told me that 100 is something special and that I should give some importance to it. So, technically speaking, I don’t believe that numbers have any relevance.
 
 
 People look at my career as two segments — before and after Mynaa. Though I had hit albums like Kacheri Arambam, Thiruvilayadal Arambam, Maasilamani much before that, Mynaa, an intense romantic film, is vital in a composer’s career. Like how a period film is required for an art director to showcase his talent, or an action movie for a stunt choreographer, a music director needs a full-fledged romantic album to get some attention.
 
 
 The film was a break for both of us. Like me, he, too, had done a few films before, but both of us got the break with the same movie. We have many similarities with regard to our music taste. He has a thorough knowledge of what music should be used where and so on. In fact, my favourite songs of Ilaiyaraaja are his favourites, too. Suseenthiran, Ponram and Ezhil sir are other filmmakers with whom I work well. Unlike what people assume, it is more challenging when you work with people whom you are comfortable with, because they know what you are coming up with, and hence, they expect you to deliver something new or different.
 
 
 I don’t think I have come across someone who has a know-how of music in an extensive way, but there are people who know what music is required for a film or a situation in terms of emotions. I hope I get to work with somebody who has great knowledge in music. I’d love to do a musical on the lines of Salangai Oli, Sankarabharanam and Sindhu Bhairavi.
 
 
 I don’t compose songs to showcase my proficiency in music or to please hard-core music lovers. The basic criterion is that my work should reach all sections of music lovers. I want my songs to be enjoyed by those who travel in a town bus and they should be played repeatedly in a tea shop. People term certain songs as ‘local’, but the fact is, such songs have good reach, and there are instances when such numbers have been enjoyed by even those who do not like such genres. Sometimes, I keep children in mind, too. Songs like Dandanakka, Damaalu Dumeelu, Oodha Colouru Ribbon and Fy Fy Fy were immensely liked by children. When they become adamant to watch movies which feature these songs, it draws a family to theatres, These are all part of marketing. 
 
 
 The genre of the film is such that it has some ‘non-Imman’ songs. Almost 70 percent of the film happens in space, so the music had to be very natural. As there isn’t any sound in space, music plays the central role in conveying the emotions. I’m quite content with the work as it has come out well.
 
 
 It is a prestigious project for me. I’ve been in talks for doing animation films for quite some time, and finally, I came on board this project. The first level work is going on currently. This is a project which I’m looking forward to with utmost excitement.
 
 
 I’m getting ready with the music for the first schedule. This is my first album for   sir. I never had an urge to work for any particular star’s film, but the kind of great person Ajith sir is, I think it will be a delightful experience. It is good to work with Siva sir. 
 
 
 To make Ajith sir sing, he should be comfortable first. He has never sung in his career, so I will try from my side, but what finally matters is a nod from his side.
 
 
 Theme music illama   padama? The album will surely have a mass song and my kind of melody, too.
 
 
 I think it’s my nature. I don’t indulge in anything other than music. I don’t have many friends; I do not drink or smoke, something which I’m very proud about. I should thank my parents for bringing me up in such a way. My relatives were initially sceptical about me foraying into cinema. I ensure that I don’t encourage anything in my life which affects my music career.
 
 
 He was a teacher and my mother was a homemaker. We are a simple family and hail from Madurai. We have had our own struggles. A lot of financial investment was required to purchase keyboard, gadgets, instruments, plug-ins, etc. After knowing that my passion is in music, my father ensured that I got the best instruments and opportunities to exhibit my talent. Everything he did for me was because of his unconditional love for me. To be honest, I’m not sure if I can be a father like that to my children.
 
 
 We have a good situation today in the industry.   has sung for me recently. Anirudh and Sean Roldon, too, have sung my compositions. I think the audience isn’t concerned about whether music directors have competition among them or not. They appreciate any good song irrespective of who the composer is.
 
 
 The general assumption is that people in films resort to methods like liposuction to lose weight. But I lost weight in an organic way. I should thank both Athulya and Rajesh — my dietician and fitness trainer. I followed their plan for a year. I’m a hardcore non-vegetarian, so there was this doubt regarding effective weight loss. But I achieved it by proper exercise and following a changed cooking pattern. I used to take protein and carbohydrate on alternate weeks and worked out regularly. I was new to the concept of gym, treadmill, cardio, etc, but now, I feel fresh. There were times when I used to struggle to climb stairs. Now, after reducing 40kg — from 117kg to 77kg — I feel so comfortable.
 
 
 Yes, this has happened many times to me. But, of late, I don’t worry much about it as I know it’s not in my hands. Another thing which I used to worry about was the visualisation of my songs. There’s no point in getting disappointed if a well-composed song of yours is shot in a bad way. Sometimes, a hit song of mine might irritate the audience simply because it appears at an inappropriate place in the movie. You just can’t do anything to such things. Some of the beautiful compositions of Isaignani (Ilaiyaraaja), too, have met a similar fate. So, I’ve understood that my work should please people’s ears, and that I have to be satisfied if it works that way. 
 
 
 He has always been a big inspiration. His songs used to reach all types of audience. His compositions have the magic of impressing classical music lovers who are knowledgeable in music and those who relish so-called ‘local’ numbers. This talent of balancing both extremes is something many music directors, including me, try to achieve. But I don’t know to what extent I will be able to achieve it. Another USP of his music has been the regional connect. 
 
 
 It could be because of the fact that films which I work on belong to similar genre. For instance, I have been working for back-to-back movies which were set against rural backdrop. So, there are chances of some instruments or tune getting repeated as those projects feature common elements like template intro song, kuthu song, and so on. Sometimes, the films which I work on release one after the other, and this, too, may give an impression that I’m delivering similar music. But that is something which is not in my control. However, I have reduced the number of projects that I take on this year. Last year, it was crazy — I had 15 releases, with an audio launch happening every month. I need to spend some quality with my family.
 
 
 After getting married, I have made it a point to spend more time with my kids. There are times when I have been depressed, though I’ve never revealed the intensity of what I have gone through. But only if you suffer, you will reap benefits. That roller-coaster ride makes life interesting. So, tough times teach you a lot; they make you grounded and disciplined.
 
