NEW DELHI/GURUGRAM/NOIDA: A   and dust storm with a wind speed of up to 109 kmph barrelled through Delhi and neighbouring areas on Sunday, affecting flight, rail and metro operations and uprooting trees. At least four people died and 26 were injured in the national capital region.

 
 According to Met officials, the highest wind speed during the squall was recorded at 109km/hr at Safdarjung, followed closely by   at 96km/hr. Dark grey clouds started gathering around 3pm and, within an hour, much of Delhi, Gurugram and Noida were plunged into darkness. People rushed for cover even as the strong winds and poor visibility affected traffic. Officials from the regional met office confirmed that this was the “strongest” thunderstorm activity in the past few weeks.
  
  
 “The storm was quite intense, but it cleared up in a matter of hours. Such activity is common during this time of the season as Delhi has high temperatures and easterly winds with moisture are blowing. We also had a western disturbance affecting the region that led to the thunderstorm,” a senior met official said. Another spell of light rain is predicted in parts of the capital on Monday. “There will be light rain in some parts of the city on Monday, with most of the activity taking place in the afternoon or evening. However, we are not expecting wind speeds like we did on Sunday. The maximum should drop to 38 degrees Celsius on Monday,” the official said.
 
 The capital’s maximum temperature during the day had touched 40.8 degrees Celsius at Safdarjung and 41.3 degrees Celsius at Palam — before the sudden change in the weather. Till 5.30pm, Safdarjung had recorded 4.2mm of rainfall while Palam received 0.8mm during the same period.
 
 At least two loss of lives were reported in Delhi. Police said Sumwati Devi (56) was killed when a tree branch fell on her head near Patpargunj in east Delhi. She was taken to a hospital where she died during treatment, police said. Devi, a widow, is survived by her son. In another incident, a 19-year-old Rohit died in southeast Delhi’s Jaitpur when construction material fell on him. Delhi Police said they had received 255 PCR calls about trees falling on the road. Till late night, 75 trees were removed, officials added. 
 
 As many as 75 poles came crashing and 61 cases of tin sheds/brick-roof wall collapse were reported, police said.
 
 “We enhanced night deployment and have kept quick-reaction teams ready. The helplines will be kept active through the night. We have been getting calls about obstructions on roads, which are being addressed individually,” Garima Bhatnagar, joint commissioner, traffic, said. 
 
 The inclement weather interrupted the launch of a 140 kWp rooftop solar plant at IP Extension attended by chief minister  . 
 
 In  , at least one person was killed and six injured in different incidents. The deceased was identified as Rajkumar alias Raju (40) of Bulandshahr. According to police, Raju was killed when a tree uprooted by the strong winds fell on his car in Lal Kuan area. “Four other persons were injured in the incident,” police said. In a separate incident, two minor girls, aged 13 and 15 years, respectively, were injured in Pasonda village in Sahibabad as the wall of a house collapsed on them. In Noida, a 42-year-old woman died and her son was injured after a large hoarding collapsed on their bike during the dust storm in Noida Extension on Sunday evening. The woman was identified as Jaimun Nisha, a resident of Haibatpur village in Bisrakh. Her son Imran (21) is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Noida.
 
 Gurugram, too, was greeted with a storm, followed by sporadic showers. Visibility was totally obscured by dust whipped up by heavy winds. Residents had to close their windows and doors to keep the dust off their rooms. The situation was severe in new sectors, where winds whipped up clouds of dust from the vast open fields that sprawl across the area. In several places, the wind also knocked down trees. 
 
 (With agency inputs)
 
