PATNA: Lok Sabha Speaker  , Union law and justice minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, BJP veteran Murli Manoihar Joshi, actor-turned-politician Kirron   and Commonwealth Parliamentary Association (CPA) executive committee chairperson Emilia Monjowa Lifaka are prominent among over 100 delegates to take part in the four-day 6th India region   of the CPA beginning here from February 16. Six of the delegates are from foreign countries.

 Other prominent foreign delegates who have confirmed their participation are the CPA London’s secretary general Akbar Khan, CPA’s Africa region treasurer and Uganda MP Elijah Okupa, Speaker of National Assembly of Tonga Lord Fakafanua, National Assembly of Tonga secretary Gloria Guttenbeil and Australia MLA Robyn Lambley.
 
 Bihar assembly Speaker   Choudhary on Wednesday said it is for the first time that Bihar is hosting such a big event of the CPA in which the speakers of state assemblies and chairpersons of legislative councils from across the country as well as heads of legislative bodies of some foreign countries will participate.
 
 He said earlier in 1982, the state had hosted the All India Conference of Presiding Officers, but that is a different body. The CPA’s India region is a larger body of parliamentarian and legislators. 
 
 Choudhary said a total of 52 countries and their 180 legislative bodies are members of the CPA. In its India region chapter, all Indian states and their 38 legislative bodies, including Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, are its members. Besides India region, the CPA has other eight regions across the world. Choudhary said the delegates from all nine regions of the CPA are likely to participate in Patna conference.
 
 Briefing about preparations, Choudhary said a 20 Lok Sabha officials have already arrived here and they are monitoring the preparations. Another 22-member team of officers from the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha would reach here on Thursday to assist the host. He said, the four-day conference would be formally inaugurated on February 17 at Gyan Bhawan. Lok Sabha Speaker, who is the ex officio chairperson of the CPA's India region, will preside over the inaugural function, while Bihar CM Nitish Kumar will the chief guest.
 
 The sprawling campuses of Bihar legislature and the Gyan Bhawan, where main events would be held, have been beautifully decorated.
 
 
