PATNA: Hours after RJD chief   was sentenced to 14 years in jail by a special CBI court in Ranchi on Saturday, his younger son and leader of opposition in Bihar assembly   apprehended a threat to his father’s life.

 
 “Looking at the conspiracy being hatched by BJP, I am sure there is a threat to Laluji’s life,”   told reporters here. “I respect the verdict of the court. However, people of Bihar know that my father is innocent. He is a victim of political conspiracies being hatched by BJP and CM Nitish Kumar,” he added.
 
 The former deputy CM said the RJD would challenge the special CBI court order in the high court. 
 
 Tejashwi’s successor  , however, dismissed all allegations and advised Lalu to “appeal in court” if he feared for his life. “If a person is under police custody and fears for his life, he must go and appeal in court. What is posing the threat to him? How can he be in danger when no one is allowed to meet him?”  , one of the petitioners in the fodder scam cases in Patna high court, said.
 
 Union minister Giriraj Singh also took a jibe at Lalu and said “as you sow so shall you reap”. “The law takes its own course. The RJD workers should remember that the BJP was not in power when the fodder scam cases were lodged. Even Prasad’s first conviction came when the country was being ruled by the Congress-led UPA, of which the RJD was a part,” Giriraj told reporters here on Saturday.
 
 Meanwhile, JD (U) secretary general K C Tygi said Lalu’s political career has come to an end. “The allegations of Lalu being harassed out of political vendetta are completely baseless. Law is taking its own course. Lalu has done politics of nepotism and now his career has come to the verge of an end. I pray for his sound health,” Tyagi said.
 
 Newly-elected RJD Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha, on the other hand, said, “It is no rocket science to see that the probe was politically motivated. I do not wish to say much about the judgment since one cannot expect a verdict to be fair and just if the investigation itself was faulty.” 
 
 
