CHANDIGARH: AAP Punjab in-charge Manish   left a press conference in a huff here on Saturday, after he was bombarded with questions on indiscipline in the party's state unit and supremo  's apology to SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia. 

 The deputy chief minister of Delhi had come to Chandigarh for a meeting to finalize the party's candidate for the May 28 Shahkot assembly bypoll. He had come to Sector 36 to address the journalists after the meeting.
 
 Asked about his stand on Majithia, Sisodia replied, "It is part of the party's strategy. I am satisfied with party's every decision." He added, "As of now, Arvind Kejriwal's and my stands do not matter. But Captain (Amarinder Singh) government's stand is important on if he (Majithia) goes to jail or not, or allegations against him are proven or not (sic)."
 
 He said AAP leaders and workers were reaching out to people in Punjab and the party was still fighting against the drug mafia. "Drugs are an issue in Punjab. We will name any mafia that comes to light," Sisodia said. When told that leader of opposition   was not satisfied with Kejriwal's apology to Majithia, Sisodia said every person had his/her own view.
 
 Questioned about his reaction to Khaira's recent statement that he would not go to Delhi for any AAP meeting and rather Kejriwal and others should come to Punjab for any meeting on state issues, Sisodia replied, "Party has full democracy under which any worker or leader can put his viewpoint and we talk to him. These are party issues and Khaira sahab can also come there for the press conference at Delhi."
 
 Questioned whether this amounts to indiscipline in the party, Sisodia said, "Aapke sawalon ke jawaab waqt dega, main nahin. Aap zyada tension mat lo, party khud dekh legi (Time is going to answer your questions, not I. Don't worry about us, the party will take care of all things)."
 
 Sisodia then left the press conference. Before this, Sisodia said the party had not yet accepted Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann's resignation and he was still AAP's Punjab president. But when asked why Mann said there was no need for the AAP to contest the Shahkot bypoll, Sisodia replied, "The party's stand is before you. We will talk to party leaders." 
 
 
