MADURAI: The regional passport officer ( ) has been directed to issue the passport application of a diploma holder who was denied it after he suppressed information about the filing of a criminal case against him for taking part in a protest against  .

 A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and   of the Madurai bench of the Madras high court gave this relief to   from   in   district by disposing his appeal filed against the single judge order dated January 29 last dismissing his writ petition against the passport authority.
 
 Arumugam, a diploma holder in electrical and electronic engineering (EEE), along with few others on April 18, last year assembled in front of a wine shop run by the Tasmac and shouted slogans demanding its closure. It led the Sattur police to register a case against him. He did not disclose this in his passport application. 
 
 The regional passport authority issued a notice to him on January 9 directing him to explain within 30 days why he suppressed the information. Challenging it, he filed a writ. 
 
 The assistant solicitor general had argued that once the case is registered, the petitioner is under obligation to disclose the said fact. Even though, he is very well aware of the said fact, he has not disclosed the said material fact and in the light of Sections 10(a), 10(2)(b) and 10(3)(b) of the Passport Act, 1967, he is not entitled to get the passport. 
 
 But, the bench said, “Mere pendency of criminal proceedings cannot be construed as pendency of criminal proceedings. Admittedly, in the case on hand, the case is in FIR stage and even for the sake of arguments, subsequently, the chargesheet has been filed, as on the date of submission of the application for passport, only FIR is pending and it cannot be construed as pendency of a criminal and it cannot be said that the petitioner has suppressed the material fact of pendency of the criminal case.”
 
 It then directed the regional passport officer to process the passport application in accordance with law and communicate the decision taken to him with regard to the issuance of passport within eight weeks from the receipt of a copy of the order.
 
 
