JAIPUR : Rajasthan University’s five-year integrated law college is again boiling over lack of facilities, shortage of faculty; demand to suspend self-finance status and to comply with Bar Council of India report.

 On Saturday, a group of students sat on the indefinite hunger strike and wrote a letter with blood to Governor Kalyan Singh and chief minister Vasunddhara Raje seeking their intervention in solving the problems related to the college. The issue again come to fore after a month. The protesting students who staged protest in March for a week were assured by the administration of solving all their problems. They sat on indefinite hunger strike after they failed to get the assurance from university administration.
 
 The Bar Council of India (BCI) website list of affiliated colleges shows the five-year law college affiliation valid till 2014-15. “The affiliation was not extended due to acute shortage of teachers and absence of basic facilities. It has no permanent faculty. The teachers are drawn either from constituent law college of RU or guest faculties from other colleges. The required number of faculties is 21,” said Dron Yadav, a former five year law student, highlighting one of the main concerns of the students.
 
 Students staging hunger strike has cleared till the demands were not met. Jagparvesh Mam, final year student says that “I have completed four years and cannot recall a single day to have classes with teachers. I am paying full fees but in return they are giving nothing. I will continue to sit here till they concede to all our basic demands.”
 
 Students also staged demonstration against the university administration and higher education minister Kiran Maheshwari. Independent MLA from Nagaur Hanuman Beniwal has also extended its support to the protesting students. He is to visit the campus on Monday. University has assured the students of fulfilling all the demands as early as possible. However, students are adamant that before the start of a new academic session they should fulfil all demands.
 
 
