Trichy: Government officials from various departments, school and college teachers, NGOs and advocates came up with a resolution that extensive awareness programmes would be held for school and college students – both boys and girls – regarding menstruation and integrating menstrual hygiene into total sanitation. It was also decided that colleges in Trichy will take up the theme of menstrual hygiene while conducting cultural programmes. They came up with this decision during a roundtable conference, which was conducted at Bharathidasan University here on Monday during a stakeholder consultation programme ‘Recent Developments in Integrating Menstrual Hygiene into Total Sanitation: Challenges and Possible Solutions’. The event was organised by the department of women studies at the university, in collaboration with Trichy Corporation, Tamil Nadu Urban Sanitation Support Programme (TNUSSP) Indian Institute for Human Settlements (IIHS) on the occasion of Menstrual Hygiene Day – 2018 which was observed on May 28. Speaking on the occasion, director and head, department of women’s studies, N Manimekalai stated that menstruation is still considered as a taboo in the district and said that creating awareness about it in a scientific way should be done to change the perception of people. “When speaking about menstruation, it doesn’t mean only girls should be educated. Boys should also be inculcated the knowledge about menstruation,” she said. “Not only that, we also want to conduct awareness programmes for teachers and parents about menstruation because children mostly get to know about the topic from them,” Manimekalai told TOI. Total sanitation cannot be achieved if menstrual hygiene is not added as a part of it, she added. Experts also decided that extensive awareness programmes would be held for schools and college students regarding menstruation and integrating menstrual hygiene into total sanitation. Specialist in behavioural change and communication at TNUSSP-TSU-IIHS, M Ganeshkumar said, “Only when menstrual hygiene is being included as a part of cultural programmes, more discussions would take place and everyone will get a better knowledge about the subject.” Corporation commissioner N Ravichandran, who delivered the inaugural address, spoke about the several efforts which the corporation has been undertaking for menstrual hygiene. He stated that sanitary napkin incinerators have been placed in apartments, corporation toilets and schools. District joint director, medical and rural health services, S Samshad Begam, apart from sanitary napkin manufacturers were also present at the roundtable conference.