MUMBAI: Kiddies’ Paradise High School, which is allegedly the source of five SSC papers leaks between March 10 and 19, was not supposed to be a designated centre for the board exam this year. It was only after another   refused to conduct exams citing infrastructure issues, Kiddies’ Paradise was made an SSC   on the local education officer’s recommendation, a four-member team from the Mumbai divisional board told TOI.

 “After Naaz School refused to conduct the exam, the education officer suggested Kiddies’ Paradise,” said Subhash Borse, in-charge secretary of the divisional board. “We usually look at the school’s infrastructure, including rooms, benches, drinking water and washroom facilities, before allotting it as an exam centre. A school is expected to have enough staff. If a school does not have the required number of staff members, the principal or the zonal education office informs us. In this case, no one had intimated us about the staff problem.” 
 
  have arrested four accused, including   (47), the leak mastermind who had been working at Kiddies’ Paradise as maths teacher for the past 10 months. Police claimed Khan clicked photographs of the papers as soon as the seals were broken in   Zakiya Shaikh’s cabin and shared them with his accomplices, who circulated the papers. In Khan’s own tutorial college, the answers were written on blackboards for the examinees to copy.
 
 Police are probing how the school got recognition to become an exam centre. “Preliminary inquiry found that the school has violated all norms, including not maintaining teachers’ and supervisors’ payme-nt records. Five supervisors were hired for the exam, but the school did not have any record of their antecedents or contact number,” said a police officer.
 
 TOI has learnt that Khan, during interrogation, told police that he had accompanied Shaikh to complete the exam centre procedure. “Khan said though established 20 years ago, the school was not doing well in terms of student enrolment and financially. When the board approached the school, they thought this would help get more admissions,” said the officer.
 
 On Saturday, a police team took Khan to Kiddies’ Paradise and carried out a panchnama of Shaikh’s cabin. Then Shaikh had told police that “she was impressed with Khan for helping her complete the exam centre procedure and so, made him her deputy in supervising the question papers. She claimed she didn’t know he was involved in the leak”. But Borse said, “It appears the school authorities have been negligent. But since police are conducting an inquiry, we will wait for their report to complete our departmental inquiry.” Shaikh did not respond to texts and calls from TOI on Sunday.
 
 
