PANAJI: Residents of St Andre and   consitituencies, who have been opposing the inclusion of their villages under the jurisdiction of the Greater   Planning and Development Authority (GPPDA), finally tasted success. 

 TCP minister   Sardesai told reporters, the government has dropped these villages from the recently formed GPPDA with immediate effect. He said that since the GPPDA was constituted under the decision of the TCP board, which at its next meeting on April 9 will have to confirm the decision. 
 
 Sardesai said Taleigao and the Kadamba plateau areas will continue to be a part of the GPPDA.
 
 He said Taleigao was always under a planning area, and that if dropped, it will revert back to the jurisdiction of the North Goa Planning and Development Area. He also said that if the residents of Kadamba plateau areas are not favourable towards it, the government is open to removing it too from the GPPDA.
 
 Sardesai said that the GPPDA had been constituted with the included villages after their elected representatives made written requests to the TCP department. He said he has letters from Taleigao MLA Jennifer Monserrate, St Cruz MLA Antonio ‘Tony’ Fernandes and St Andre MLA Francisco Silveira to bring the villages in their constituencies under jurisdiction of the  .
 
 “Subsequently, after people protested, these elected representatives retracted their view. I expressed my readiness to engage with the people on their grievances. On engaging with the villagers who opposed the inclusion, I realised that the MLAs had, at the onset itself, misread the voices of their people, thereby misleading me and my department,” Sardesai added.
 
 “Today, I feel that the cry of the people is the ‘voice of God’. Hence, I want to announce that all the villages (from St Cruz and St Andre constituencies) coming under the PDA will be dropped immediately. This decision has to be confirmed by the town and country planning board, but as chairman, I am announcing it today,” the minister said.
 
 Earlier, as part of the protest, Fernandes and Silveira had resigned as members of the GPPDA.
 
 
