LUCKNOW: Initiating an intensive mass contact programme from July, the   has lined up around two dozen public meetings and programmes with its president Amit   in politically crucial   in the runup to the Lok Sabha elections next year.

 
 The ‘Mahasampark Abhiyan’ will see Shah criss-crossing UP and holding 18 public meetings in areas covering at least four Lok Sabha constituencies, including   and Ayodhya. This will be apart his six meetings with booth-level workers from different parts of the state, according to a proposal sent by the UP BJP to the party’s top leadership.
 
 The BJP boss is also proposed to visit Dalit-dominated villages, besides meeting public figures and seers to inform them about achievements of the four-year rule of the   government at the Centre. Shah’s proposed visit to Dalit villages also comes amid recent unrest in the community triggering a series of protest from the saffron party’s own MPs and MLAs in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 BJP sources said that the top party leadership, including CM Yogi Adityanath, is expected to take part in these programmes, envisaging an aggressive public outreach to counter a formidable joint opposition comprising UP’s two regional giants, the SP and the BSP.
 
 “The idea is to reach every section of the society to arrest the chances of a growing antiincumbency against the ruling party,’’ a senior BJP leader told TOI. The BJP and its ally   had won 73 out of 80 Lok Sabha seats in 2014 Lok Sabha elections.
 
 The BJP chief is also proposed to meet presidents of the booth-level committee to get a feedback on party’s preparedness at the grass-roots levels. Party sources said that Shah is expected to hold at least six meetings of booth-level functionaries.
 
 BJP’s move to chalk out an exhaustive mass contact programme of its party chief comes close on the heels of a month-long ‘Gram Swaraj Abiyan’ which saw CM Yogi and cabinet ministers reaching out to the villages, holding ‘Chaupals’ and even dining with the Dalit families. The UP BJP unit has, in fact, extended the `Abhiyan’ by another 15 days starting from June 1. The BJP leadership feels that reaching out to the villages could consolidate its position in the rural areas where nearly 70% of the voting population resides. “Getting problems of the villagers solved then and there sends a strong positive message to the people and bring them closer to the party,’’ said a BJP leader.
 
