Subrahmanya/Bantwal:   president   put booth-level workers at the centre of his strategy to ensure a ‘Congress-mukt Karnataka’. 

 Reminding them of their power, that has seen the party come to power in states such as Manipur, where it did not have a presence thus far, and winning Uttar Pradesh with 2/3rds majority, after being in the fourth position in that state, Shah said it is this determination that will see the BJP win Tripura for the first time, when counting is held on March 3.
 
 He was addressing the Navashakti convention of booth-level workers of Sullia, Puttur,   and Belthangady assembly constituencies at Kulkunda in Sullia and B C Road in Bantwal, on Tuesday. Shah said the BJP, unlike other parties, derives its strength as a cadre-based party. “Our opponents have not been able to fathom the party’s rise to power in successive states barring Punjab in recent times, and this is mainly due to the work done by party workers at the booth level,” he said.
 
 He reminded workers at Kulkunda that the forthcoming elections to the state assembly are not just a battle for a state, but an important milestone in national politics. Shah said a win in Karnataka will open the doors to south India for the BJP. At B C Road, Shah exhorted the workers to chalk out a strategy to win their respective  , which will ensure that the party wins the assembly constituency, and in turn ends up installing a B S Yeddyurappa-led BJP government in Bengaluru.
 
 “There has been multifaceted growth of the party under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and the party has emerged as the biggest political party with the largest organizational base in the world,” he said. 
 
 “From the time where we struggled to have one or two legislators, the party presently has 1,470 legislators across India. We have 330 MPs and rule in 19 states in India,” Shah said, adding that it is now time to add Karnataka to the list of states ruled by it. “The people of Karnataka cannot be left behind in development,” he said.
 
 Karnataka is suffering from 3 M's - Murder, Mafia and Ministerial corruption. People of the state want to move away from Goonda Governance to Good Governance. It is only a matter of days that Congress govt will be out and BJP will be voted in, he said. 
 
 Blasting the state government for the continuing spate of murders of Hindu activists in Karnataka. Shah said the BJP government under Yeddyurappa will hunt down their killers, even if they are hiding in hell, and ensure that law and order prevails in the state.
 
 
