THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A woman chief minister is a long-lost concept for people of Kerala, and those with a keen eye for political developments here may not even predict one in the near future. But   will get a woman CM towards the end of this month, on April 28 to be precise, heading an 18-member 'shadow cabinet'. 

 The joint platform of various NGOs, which has initiated this first-of-its-kind alternative cabinet in the state, has zeroed in on three women, and will announce the chosen one after April 20, ahead of the oath taking ceremony scheduled for April 28. She is going to be someone bold and efficient enough to be Pinrayi Vijayan's counterpart in the shadow cabinet, they assert, without revealing the names.
 
 Shadow cabinet has been envisaged as an alternative forum which can monitor each and every decision of the cabinet and suggest better solutions. "It will be a kind of social auditing done by qualified members from society," said John Joseph, the leader of the Voters' Alliance, one of the key organizations behind the move.
 
 At least half of the ministers in this cabinet will be women, said  , the project coordinator. "It will also have adequate representation of youth, dalits and minority communities, disabled and transgender people. Each minster will have a five-member support group, and the cabinet will have separate research, media and legal teams," he said.
 
 Dalit leader   has agreed to administer the oath of office to the shadow cabinet, said Joseph. An alternative budget will be presented, followed by 'budget schools' - district-wise workshops on the state budget.
 
 The concept emerged at a meeting of the Voters' Alliance eight months ago. Discussions were held with two other NGOs -   and Gandhian Collective. More organizations like Salsabeel Green School (Thrissur), Human Wellness Study Centre, RTI Federation, Ekta Parishat, RTI Federation and   came forward offering support. Now, as many as 12 workshops have been held for the formation of the shadow cabinet. Three more have been scheduled (April 13-14, 20-21 and 26-27). "A list of around 30 candidates has already been prepared ," Jose said.
 
  A march from Kasaragod to Thiruvananthapuram will be organized during September-October to sensitise people on shadow cabinet.
 
 
