It’s important for the students to know that   requires conceptual understanding with a little bit of cramming. This subject is not only important for Class XII students to score well in board examinations, but also to crack the competitive exams like IIT-JEE, advises Awadhesh Kumar Jha, a physics teacher at DAV Public School BSEB, in conversation with TOI’s Faryal Rumi. Excerpts:

 How to get a good grip on mathematical problems of physics?
 
 There are a number of mathematical parameters that are utilized in physics. If a student is good in maths, s/he will easily master the mathematical problems of physics. Studying maths with physics can help you understand the subject. It is good to simplify the problems as much as possible. Solving physics problems may seem to be tough for many students, but they will find it easier once they analyse them.
 
 How to memorize the basic equations?
 
 Equations are very important tools to solve the numerical problems. Students should prepare a chart which comprises all equations and their application. There are certain topics which are important in equation and numericals, including electric and magnetic field, optics and electromagnetic induction. The rest of the portion is based on formula.
 
 To what extent diagrams and graphs are important in physics to support the answer?
 
 It is mandatory to make drawings to understand the basic concepts and detailed part of physics. It is always good to present any concept with the help of drawing, as it will help you score more and understand better. Devices and derivation-related diagrams are important like transformer, amplifier, generator, transistor, circuit diagram, microscope, telescope, interference (wave optics) and meter break.
 
 Tips to fetch good marks in board as well as in the competitive exams …
 
 The Class XII students need to keep a proper balance between both the exams. Solve previous questions and practice sample papers. Only practice can help students to score well in this subject. They should also understand the theory part in order to solve the numericals. Don’t take help of too many books. Only NCERT book is enough to fetch good marks as well as to crack the competitive exam.
 
 Last minute advice to the examinees …
 
 Students should go through the short notes they make while preparing for the exams. Don’t look for the untouched topics.
 
 Things that should be kept in mind while writing the paper …
 
 Before the commencement of the exam, a reading time of 15 minutes will be provided, during which one should read the question paper carefully and check out the marks assigned to each question. Students must attempt easy questions first without wasting time; allot more time to solve tougher questions. Time management as well as writing speed is very important in this subject. Under pressure, students sometimes forget the formulas. So, it will be better to write the formulas in rough space on the right-hand side of the answer copies.
 
 
