Ever heard of  ? Or Kyasanur Forest disease? They might sound some fancy diseases from some far off country but no, these aren't names Kerala can shrug off. 

 The State might be ranked number one in the 'Performance in Health Outcomes' index of the recently released NITI Aayog report, but not everything looks so great, in here. Many diseases, which were unheard of or even wiped off in the past, are now common in Kerala. As it can be easily guessed, many of them owe their presence to the unhealthy changes we have brought in to our lifestyles. What are these diseases actually? Experts tell us:
 
 
 
 Dr Rakesh P S, public health faculty member at a leading medical college, says, "There are quite a few communicable diseases now in Kerala, which are making a regular appearance in the past few years, though they were non-existent earlier. One such is scrub typhus (chellu pani/tick fever). In the past five years, many cases were reported. A bacterial disease, it is transmitted to humans through certain mites, called chiggers. Yet another disease is the Kyasanur Forest disease or monkey fever, which is named after the forest area in the Karnataka belt, where it was first reported. It's caused by a kind of virus and is increasingly reported from areas like Malappuram, Wayanad and Nilambur.”
 
 While these two belong to the category of communicable diseases, medical practitioners of other specialties quote a handful of other emerging diseases as well. Senior oncologist Dr Narayanan Kutty Warrier says that thyroid cancer has been found among women in the age group of 20 to 30, in the past five years. "It's noted mostly in the coastal belt of the State, but we don’t have enough studies to give their exact reasons yet,” he says. He also mentions cancer in the large intestine in the age group between 30 and 50.
 
 Dr B Jayakumar, endocrinologist, mentions   (type II) as an ailment under the specialty, which recently emerged. “Earlier, type II diabetes was common among those above the age of 40. Now, children also get them, especially those who were raised in the Gulf countries, who belong to the upper middle class section of the society,” he says.
 
 Crohn’s disease, aka inflammatory bowel disease and NASH (Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis or fatty liver) are quoted by gastroenterologists as a few other recent entrants in Kerala. “They are found both in men and women, from the age group of 15 to 50,” says gastroenterologist Dr Sunil Mathai.
 
 
 
 Alongside the newly emerging diseases, there are also those that are making comebacks, despite being wiped out from the State through concentrated medical efforts. Dr Rakesh says that one such disease is the bacteria-induced diphtheria. “There are occurrences now, after a break of about 20 years. Malaria is also one such disease, which had almost no indigenous transmission (between the state or community) in the past, unlike today,” he explains.
 Dr M M Faizal, dermatologist, quotes leprosy as a disease that's re-emerging amidst us. “We had wiped it out, but the migrating population is bringing it back to our State. Similarly, many fungal infections that occur on various parts of the body are also coming back now, especially through the floating population," he says.
 
 
 
 Each of the diseases can have their own specific set of reasons to emerge, but doctors cite a handful of common reasons. Dr Faizal says, “Skin infections occur mostly due to lack of hygiene, improper treatments and excess steroid abuse. For example, migrant workers wear the same shirt for almost a week, and the same work attire for a long time. Also, when they experience itching, they go to drugstores and take over the counter medicines without any prescriptions. That worsens the situation.”
 
 In the case of communicable diseases like malaria and diphtheria too, the migrating population is termed a major carrier of the diseases. “A lot of migrants are coming in now and they constitute about 10 per cent of our population. The fall in public medical care and immunisation coverage in Kerala, especially in pockets like Malappuram, Kozhikode, to less than 70 per cent is another reason,” Dr Rakesh says.
 
 Lifestyle changes also contribute majorly to their incidence. “Red meat consumption is quoted as the reason for the increase in instances of large intestine cancer. It's not gender specific,” Dr Narayanankutty Warrier explains. The change in food habits, excessive intake of carbohydrates, along with rising stress levels and lack of exercise are cited as the reasons for gastroenterology issues.
 
 At the same time, doctors say that the development in medical science and technology is also a reason why we hear a lot more about them now. Dr Rakesh says, “Unlike in the past, a lot of these diseases are diagnosed now. It’s possible that they existed in the past too, but we never know, due to technological limitations."
 
