RAJKOT: In a throwback to the issue of selling non-vegetarian food in Palitana,  , several right-wing groups in temple town Somnath are now raising their voice to declare the periphery around the temple as ‘vegetarian zone’.

 In the last one week, at least 25 huge posters have come up in Somnath town demanding a complete ban on sale of non-vegetarian food and products in the 3 km periphery around the famed Shiva temple. The 3 km area also covers the coastal highway where some star-rated hotels selling non-veg, especially seafood, are located. The posters have been put up by various community and trade associations. They want the area from St Mary’s School to Kajli Marketing yard to be a fully ‘vegetarian zone’.
 
 Sources said the campaign has been launched by Somnath Seva Sangh and Hindu Yuva Sangathan, local Hindutva groups, who also submitted a memorandum of their demand to   collector Ajay Prakash on April 12. They have also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, all the   Members of Parliaments (MPs), chief minister Vijay Rupani, MLAs and other concerned people.
 
 Interestingly, these groups have suddenly woken up to the presence of abattoirs near Somnath temple, which has been operating for several years now and want it shut permanently.
 
 However, Somnath trust is yet to take any decision to support this demand and join hands to recommend the government to notify the specific area as veg zone.
 
 A member of Hindu Yuva Sangathan Pratik   said, “There are three abattoirs near Somnath temple and devotees have to pass through the areas where raw chicken and mutton are on sale. On the lines of Palitana, Dakor and Ambaji, Somnath should be declared a strict vegetarian zone. There are many hotels, too, selling non-veg in the periphery of the temple and wastage from these eating joints mix with water of Triveni Sangam, which is the place for holy bath and hurt the religious feelings of devotees.”
 
 When asked why have they suddenly raked up the issue, Bhuva said, “Earlier, there were not many hotels selling non-veg food. But after ‘Khushboo Gujarat Ki’ campaign, the rush of tourists for Somnath has increased and subsequently more hotels selling non-veg food came up."
 
 Collector, Gir-Somnath district, Ajay Prakash told TOI: “My opinion is likely to be negative as this issue affects the livelihoods of several poor people. Moreover, such a decision may also lead to communal disharmony. Even if they want to declare vegetarian zone, Veraval-Patan municipality has to first pass a resolution and make alternative arrangements for all those whose daily bread would be affected.”
 
 According to district administration, livelihood of nearly 100 people is likely to be affected if the demand is accepted.
 
 Secretary P K Laheri of Somnath Temple Trust, which is chaired by the prime minister, said, “The government has to decide on this issue. We have not got anything in writing from these groups. We will discuss the issue in our trustee meeting when required, but like other religious places, it’s difficult to declare veg-zone in Somnath because we have to consider that +50% population is Muslim and most of the them are involved in fishing. It’s obvious that they consume fish. Veraval’s condition is different than other pilgrimage places like Rishikesh.”
 
 
