GURUGRAM: The   XI student of a city-based private school, who was convicted of murdering a seven-year-old boy of the same school, couldn’t appear for his   this   as his name was struck off the school roster.

 Though the observation home has facilities to educate children and provide them with basic study materials, the teen didn’t avail them, according to a juvenile home official. In the juvenile home, the education imparted to children is not based on the CBSE syllabus, but is of the open school module.The juvenile has been lodged in the observation home for around six months now. 
 
 The teen maintains a good behaviour and likes to watch IPL matches, according to Dineshwar Yadav, superintendent, observation home, Faridabad. The juvenile, though was convicted of murder, hasn’t given up his studies. In November 2017, he had asked for his school books which were given to him by his parents. “He spends time to read these books at the observation home. He didn’t appear for   exams this year. I don’t know the exact reason, but we had heard that his name was struck off the school roster,” said Yadav.
 
 An official of the school, on condition of anonymity, said no one approached the school authorities regarding the teen’s examination. “Also, if the fees are not paid, action will be taken against the student,” he said.
 
 The observation home has TGT and PGT teachers who can teach students till Class 12. “There is an obvious difference between what the teenager had been taught at the private school and what the education that the government offers children at observation home. He has been studying himself.
 
 Juveniles, who want to appear for Class 10 and 12 exams, can do it by appearing for open examination. Till now no juvenile has asked for a tutor. “However, if there is any requirement, the government will provide tutors to them. We can seek help from NGOs to get tutors,” Yadav said. 
 
 All juveniles are treated the same way irrespective of their backgrounds. All of them have to follow the routines of the observation home. “We have made a routine chart after consultation with the session’s judge and the department. Like other children, the teen also follows the same routine,” he said.“Children get up at 6.30am in the morning. They are taught yoga between 7am and 7.45am. Thereafter, they have their breakfast at 8.30am. Their academic activities start at 9.30am and end at 12.30pm. They are served lunch at 1pm and tea at 3pm. They go to play between 4pm and 6pm, after which they are served dinner around 7pm.” The teenager’s parents, Yadav said, visit him on Tuesdays and Fridays, the days set by the observation home for interaction between juveniles and their relatives. Parents can give fruits to the children. 
 
 The juvenile knows to play piano, but there’s no space at the observation home to keep one. “The next month, we will be opening a new building, where juveniles will be lodged. If he is still here then, we’ll ask for a piano,” he said.
 
 
