KOCHI: To prevent outbreak of communicable diseases in  , the district administration would carry out a survey to categorize camps of migrant workers based on hygiene conditions. 

 The camps will be categorized into poor, bad, satisfactory and good, depending on the facilities and the hygiene conditions. If the camps are found in poor condition, authorities will ask the person concerned to close it down.
 
 
  
 
 The collector has already issued an order under Kerala State Disaster Management Act 2005 asking all local bodies to examine hygiene conditions of camps where migrant workers live. The survey will start on Monday and would be completed by May 21.
 
 The secretary of the local body, village officer or representative and health officer from public health centre would visit each camp and give a questionnaire to one of migrant workers. The questionnaire contains 24 questions.
 
 It would basically help the district administration to get an idea about whether adequate space is available for each person in the camp and facilities, including drinking water, toilets, kitchen, dining room, etc. are available for the migrant workers.
 
 If a camp gets below six marks, it will be categorized as 'poor' and will be asked to close down. If a camp gets marks between six and 12, it will be categorized as, 'bad' and will get one-month extension to improve things. If a camp gets mark between 12 and 19, it will be categorized as, 'satisfactory' and will be told to improve the facilities. If a camp gets mark between 19 and 24, district collector will honour the person concerned.
 
 "There are about 2,000 camps where migrant workers live in the district. The condition of many camps is poor. With this programme, we will get an idea of the condition of all camps in the district. We can formulate preventive measures if any possible outbreak looms large over these camps due to poor conditions," said district programme manager   of NRHM.
 
 In Kochi corporation limit, 10 teams have been formed to conduct the survey. "The purpose of the survey is to find out is there any possibility for outbreak of communicable diseases. The possibility is high in crowded areas," said Numbeli.
 
 
