The adage, ‘Dance like no one is watching’ is being taken quite literally by Mumbaikars, who are putting on the blindfold along with their dancing shoes. On   today, BT spoke to   about this unusual new form of shimmying and how it helps us.

 
 What people love best about   is the fact that they can groove as they please with ‘nobody watching’! “Well, people may be watching, but I can’t see them as my eyes are covered,” says Prerna Mehta, a 23-year-old IT professional, who often enjoys a blindfold dance session with her friends. “It helps because you are not conscious and so, you end up dancing like there’s no tomorrow,” she says. Her friend Kritika Bhatt, a budding writer, who first came up with this idea, recounts, “A few months ago, a cousin of mine told me how he enjoyed himself at a house party, where they were all dancing blindfolded. That’s when I suggested it to my friends and now, we have a blast doing that.” 
 
 
 Trainer  , who has just started organising workshops on this, talks about how it all began for her. “While training in theatre, we went through a lot of exercises, which involved closing our eyes. That’s when I thought of this concept and decided to take it further. It doesn’t matter whether you are a dancer or a non-dancer. Since your eyes are closed, you are in a non-judgmental zone,which helps you connect with yourself.” Sneha explains how it can help in day-to-day life too — “With the blindfold on, the brain starts working better. So, it helps people to cut out stress from daily life, gain confidence and build positivity. It is a kind of dance therapy, which helps you to move and get out of your comfort zone.” 
  
  
 
 
 BMM students Rohan Bhandare and Aviraj Padhye, who have tried this, believe that it is a good way to de-stress. “We came here to release stress, because we have our final exams soon,” says Aviraj, adding, “We didn’t want to go partying, so we thought of doing something different and experiencing something new.” Adhik Biswas, a research and marketing professional, adds, “Mentally, it is relaxing and rejuvenating. Any form of dance is a stress buster, but when you are blindfolded, you can dance fearlessly. So, the saying ‘dance like no one’s watching’ is so apt here.”
 Rajeev Singh, who is pursuing Masters in Film Studies, adds, “Lately, I have been depressed due to certain issues and this session is proving to be a great escape therapy.” Rajeev, who is also pursuing acting, says, “For an actor, body language is very important. Sessions like these make us feel liberated.” Sucharita Sarkar, a stylist, agrees. She says, “For me, this works very well as a meditative and emotional healing technique. With the kind of hectic lifestyle that we are leading, this kind of exercise definitely works since it is therapeutic.”
 
 
 This is particularly beneficial for introverts. Trainer Sneha Rajguru adds, “Dance releases emotions, anger and negative thoughts. It also makes people more expressive and outspoken.” 
 The trend is slowly catching on in the city and there are many who are looking forward to trying it out. Trina Dhruv, a post-graduate student, says, “I have heard about blindfold dance from my friends. I am too shy to dance in front of anybody, so I think this will be a good way to shed my inhibitions.”
 
