NEW DELHI: Your   will be   the next time it is being  . The   are in the process of   115 cranes that will have   and   to ensure that the cars being towed are not damaged. 

 The cranes will be powerful enough to tow an SUV. Special commissioner, traffic, Dependra Pathak confirmed that a tender has been already issued. At present, the police has a fleet of 80 cranes but they end up damaging vehicles while towing them because of their old design. Some new cranes have already been procured for evaluation. Of the 115 cranes, 75 will have an average capacity of 2 tonnes, with an upper limit of 3.5 tonnes for towing SUVs and heavy vehicles, including small buses that often break down on arterial roads. The rest of them will have a capacity of more than 3.5 tonnes for removing heavy vehicles.
  
  
 Till now, the cranes being used by the traffic police were not equipped to tow away big vehicles and ended up damaging the front bumpers. Police officers said the new high-capacity cranes will adjust the hook of the boom between the two front tyres, lock them and then lift the car, which will rest against the padded body of the crane. This will ensure there is no damage to the vehicle.
 
 These cranes can also be used in emergency cases like the one that happened in Mukherjee Nagar on Sunday in which the car had overturned. Each crane will have a 5kg fire extinguisher, a first aid kit and two movable search lights on either sides to focus on accident spots. The traffic police also want them to have GPS and tracking devices. “We have asked for a GPS locator because in an emergency like a bus breakdown, locating a vehicle quickly and taking it to another spot takes a lot of time,” said a police officer.
 
 The GPS will also help the cranes in reaching a spot faster. At present, a crane has to make its way through all the traffic to reach a vehicle that has broken down. The delay only adds to the snarls. Initially, these new vehicles will be used to tow vehicles during anti-encroachment drives and later, they will be deployed for regular towing duties. At present, the police have to borrow cranes from civic agencies or hire them from private companies for encroachment drives. 
 
 
