Visakhapatnam: Exactly a year ago on the night of January 21, the Jagadalpur-Bhubaneswar Hirakhand Express went off the tracks near Kuneru railway station in Vizianagaram district, claiming a total of 41 lives in a grisly accident that was later suspected by the government to be a case of sabotage.

 Apart from the 41 casualties, 68 people suffered grievous injuries in the mishap. The accident occurred in the middle of the night, with bad weather hampering rescue efforts.
 
 Immediately after the mishap, the Railways promised to come up with answers and said several investigative agencies would be roped in to get a clear picture on the cause of the accident. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) soon took over the reins of the investigation, but till now is yet to submit a conclusive report on whether or not there was any sabotage.
 
 “No final action has been taken so far regarding the Hirakhand Express mishap,” said MS Mathur, Waltair divisional railway manager, when asked about the status of the case.
 
 At a recent meeting in the presence of Railway Board chairman Ashwani Lohani, East Coast Railway (ECoR) general manager Umesh Singh said they are awaiting the NIA report. “The final action from the Railways’ side on the Hirakhand mishap is still pending as the investigation report from the NIA is yet to come,” Singh said.
 
 Railway Zone Sadhana Samiti member JV Satyanarayana Murthy said it is the responsibility of the railway ministry to take steps in order to ensure that such accidents do not recur. “Sincere and strict action would help improve safety and boost the performance of the Railways,” Murthy said.
 
 A senior railway official said all advanced steps like GPS tracking system for the trackmen would be introduced as part of improving infrastructure in the division. This apart, continuous monitoring of the railway tracks in isolated areas would also be strengthened , the railway official said adding that the division is hoping to get the requested amount of funds sanctioned in the ensuing railway budget.
 
 
