CHENNAI: When the Central metro underground station opens later this year, it will make the ride to major locations, including the airport, faster, but commuters may still have to go overground and walk on the road to Central Railway Station as there will be no exclusive walkways linking the two. 

  ( ) officials said they had to drop the plan of connecting Central metro directly to platforms of   through a pedestrian walkway after   denied them land. A part of the three-deck Central Metro is expected to open in March 2018 to connect the airport via Poonamallee High Road. Southern Railway officials could not be reached for comment.
 
 CMRL officials initially planned to link the concourse or ticketing level at the Central metro station directly to the platforms at the station above. Commuters heading out of Central metro could take a separate walkway, walk across a bridge over Buckingham Canal and head straight on to a Central station platform, without having to lug baggage from one facility to the other across the road. Every day, Central Railway Station and   Complex station cater to more than two lakh passengers. “Linking platforms at Central Railway station with Central metro was part of our initial design for the station in 2012. The idea was to take pedestrians and passengers underground as much as possible,” an official said.
 
 
  
 
 However, Southern Railway, which charges non-passengers for entry to platforms, refused permission to link the two facilities. “They said giving direct access would result in people entering Central station without platform tickets,” an official said. CMRL then decided to change the design for Central metro, as it would also have to bear the additional cost of a bridge across the Buckingham Canal to allow commuters direct access to Central station platforms. 
 
 Central metro, in the last phase of construction, stretches about 290 metres from Ripon Buildings to Southern Railway headquarters. It has three levels underground with concourse or ticketing level on top and six tunnels in two levels connecting both Poonamallee High Road and Anna Salai up to Airport. 
 
 Of the four subways planned to connect both sides of Poonamallee High Road near Central Metro, one linking   to Moore Market complex is already open. The others, including two to be built with the Rs 400 crore Central Square project, will connect Buckingham Canal to Central Railway Station, Central Station to Government Hospital and Flower Bazaar Road to RGGGH.
 
 
