BENGALURU: The four-lane stretch of   has turned out to be a death trap for pedestrians due to lack of speed-breakers and zebra crossings. The stretch in front of Purva Sunshine apartments has seen four accidents since December 18, two of which saw a fatality each.

 Residents of the apartment complex fear to tread across the road and do so only when there is no alternative such as when they have to drop their children at the bus stop.
 
 On December 18, a teenager working with a garment factory was run over by a speeding vehicle when he was crossing the road in front of the apartment. On December 21, another pedestrian was hit and he died 10 days later in a private hospital. His identity is yet to be verified. On January 1, the stretch witnessed two road accidents involving pedestrians who, however, had a narrow escape. 
 
 It’s the security guards and residents from the apartment who first rush to the spot when such accidents happen. The BBMP, which slyly began work on a skywalk at Mahatma Gandhi Circle without even taking up a feasiblity study and stopped it following criticism, has turned deaf to residents’ requests to put up a skywalk on this stretch. 
 
 There are scores of apartment complexes, international schools and hundreds of commercial properties, resting cheek by jowl on either side of the stretch between Carmelaram and Sarjapura Signal. It is a thoroughfare used by motorists heading to and from Iblur, Bagalur, Hosur, Varthur and Sarjapur town and also State Highway 35, making it a high-density traffic corridor.
 
 Walking and crossing the road at any time of the day is difficult, says   from Bellanduru Jotege, a resident welfare association in the locality, who is demanding that a skywalk be built across the stretch.
 
 Shilpi Sahu, a resident of Purva Sunshine, says the fear of being hit by a vehicle weighs heavily on her mind every time she crosses the road.
 
 “The road has no footpath, no proper lights and no drains. Many try to cross the road to avoid taking a lengthy U-turn located near Kaikondrahalli bus stop. It is only becoming tougher for pedestrians,” says Priyanka Jhunjhunwala, secretary, Purva Sunshine Apartment Owners’ Association.
 
 “Pedestrian crossing is a major problem, especially on roads facing high-traffic density. If skywalk is the solution there, the BBMP must take it up,” said R Sampath Raj, mayor.
 
 
