LUCKNOW: After 
  , SP and   have the opportunity to put their alliance to another trial — bypolls for   and Noorpur assembly seats due within next five months. The two seats fell vacant following the death of   MP   and MLA Lokendra Singh.

 
 Sources in the two parties said that the bypolls could actually decide the finer contours of a possible alliance as they gear up to take on BJP in 2019 Lok Sabha elections.
 
 Not contesting bypolls has been a BSP tradition and hence it did not contest Gorakhpur and Phulpur. It is highly unlikely for BSP chief   to field a candidate in Kairana as well as the winner would get just a few months as an MP. In contrast, the winner in Noorpur would get more than 3 years as an MLA.
 
  
  
 It is being discussed in UP’s political circles that if BSP candidate wins the   seat with the support of SP-led combined opposition, there are fair chances that Mayawati would support the SP candidate in Kairana. BSP sources admitted that Mayawati would assess SP support in RS elections before deciding her strategy for Kairana and Noorpur.
 
 The Jat-dominated Kairana seat was a stronghold of Ajit Singh’s RLD until 2009 Lok Sabha elections when BSP’s Tabbassum Begum defeated Hukum Singh by over 20,000 votes. 
 
 The 2014 Modi wave swept BSP away amid Hukum Singh’s claims of mass exodus by Hindus and he won by a record margin of around 2.5 lakh votes.
 
 The SP leadership has set its eyes on the two seats and plans to contest both with BSP support. “The party leadership is yet to take a call on Kairana and Noorpur bypolls, but we will surely contest to win,” said SP chief Akhilesh Yadav’s confidante Udaiveer Singh, who played a key role in the understanding with BSP for the two bypolls.
 
 Noorpur BJP MLA, Lokendra Singh died in a car accident while on way to Lucknow to attend investors’ summit.
 
 
  
 
 Both SP and BSP had contested from Noorpur in 2012 and 2017 elections separately and lost. “The situation may change if the two come together in the otherwise communally-sensitive region,” said a political expert.
 
