KOLKATA: Panicked and cautious, the residents of   — one of south Kolkata’s most prominent locations embracing parts of Golpark, Ballygunge and Fern Road — have changed their lifestyle over the last two years to adapt to the growing troubles right outside their homes. The latest in the series of trouble in the area came on Sunday when a group of around 40 men on 15-odd bikes reached Golpark around 10.30pm and launched an attack on a group of  .

 The locality sees regular street fights and bloody conflicts among sections of syndicate operators who want to take control of the area which has a number old buildings being taken over by realtors and turned into highrises. Nobody here walks on the lanes after 10.30pm, shops down shutters by 10pm, windows and balcony doors are kept shut even during summer.
 
 “The men who started the trouble on Sunday were led by Babu Tiwari and Rajababu, both from Bondel Gate, who want to control this area. They brought men armed with country-made pistols, hockey sticks and soft-drink bottles. They attacked women and teenagers too,” said Bimal Das, a resident of Kakulia bustee who witnessed the incident.
 
 At least two persons, Ratan Sahu and his son Akash, suffered severe injuries and had to be taken to a hospital after being beaten up by the ruffians. The locals then retaliated by throwing bricks, stones and glass bottles at the men on bikes. The troublemakers then fled the area, allegedly firing two rounds of bullets in the air.
 
 Police said they received two complaints from both parties, but refuted the allegation of any firing. “We arrested one of the persons named in the FIR and have posted a heavy police picket in the area throughout the day to ensure no further trouble,” said an officer.
 
 For the residents, though, the attack was common. “Earlier, we used to react to the sight of the street fights and open clashes. But we have got used to this and have changed our lifestyle accordingly. There are clashes almost everyday. Sometimes police come and sometimes they don’t. We, however, don’t venture out at night. Even being in the heart of south Kolkata, life is different for us,” said a resident of Kankulia Road who lives in a two-storey building with his wife, two daughters, a brother and his family.
 
 Another resident, who has been living in the locality for over 80 years and owns two shops, said he ensures the shops are closed by 9.45pm. “Post 10pm there are regular brawls and I don’t want my employees or family members to get involved. We shut our stores and don’t even come out on the balcony when the brawls break out,” he said.
 
 Kankulia Road bisects Kolkata Municipal Corporation wards 90 and 68 and runs from Golpark to Ballygunge station. It is the one place in the city that has been particularly fast-expanding with old settlements and slums staying side by side.
 
 “This is one place that still has a number of old houses. Most of them are being sold off to realtors who are turning them into high rises. As a result, this area is seeing a lot of construction activity in the recent past and will see more in the future. Hence, more and more people from outside are trying to gain political and manpower control of the area, especially the slums, to gain control of the business of supplying construction materials and labourers to these sites. And that is leading to the frequent clashes in the name of area domination,” said a Trinamool leader.
 
