WASHINGTON: The partisan divide in American politics worsened on Friday after a Republican-dominated Congressional panel released a redacted version of their final report of a year-long probe into Russia’s alleged influencing of the 2016 US Presidential election that absolved the Trump campaign of collusion with Moscow and instead trained its guns on the intelligence community and Democrats.

 Republican members, while finding 'no evidence that the Trump campaign colluded, coordinated, or conspired with the Russian government,' accused the US intelligence community of 'significant intelligence tradecraft failings' and bashed the Obama administration for 'slow and inconsistent' response to Russia’s machinations, which they implicitly acknowledged.
 
 "While the committee found that several of the contacts between Trump associates and Russians — or their proxies, including WikiLeaks — were ill-advised, the committee did not determine that Trump or anyone associated with him assisted Russia’s active measures campaign," the Republicans wrote.
 
 President Trump immediately expressed relief at being cleared, tweeting, "Just Out:   Report released. “No evidence” that the Trump Campaign “colluded, coordinated or conspired with Russia.” Clinton Campaign paid for Opposition Research obtained from Russia- Wow! A total Witch Hunt! MUST END NOW!"
 
 Expectedly, Democrats dissented, accusing the Republican-majority committee of intentionally steering the investigation away from scrutiny of the president, refusing to issue subpoenas, and generally undermining the integrity of the probe with partisan outlook. The probe, they insisted, is not over yet.
 
 "They have engaged in a systematic effort to muddy the waters, and to deflect attention away from the President, most recklessly in their assault on the central pillars of the rule of law," Democrats wrote in a 98-page dissenting note, alleging the House panel report has been "crafted to advance a political narrative that exonerates the President, downplays Russia’s preference and support for then-candidate Trump, explains away repeated contacts by Trump associates with Russia-aligned actors."
 
 Although the House panel cleared Trump and his campaign from collusion charges, the report warned that Russia would continue to interfere in the US process without significant deterrence efforts, and "unless the cost-benefit equation of such operations changes significantly," not just the Putin regime but other hostile governments will also continue to pursue attacks against the US and its allies.
 
 The report was released even as fresh stories emerged that a Russian lawyer who was present at a meeting between Trump campaign officials and Russian interlocutors at Trump Towers meeting in 2016 had closer ties to the Kremlin than previously known.
 
 The June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower is an area of inquiry in special counsel  's investigation into whether anyone from the Trump campaign colluded with Russians. But pro-Trump Republican operatives and lawmakers insist that there was nothing to that meeting other than poor judgment. 
 
 Although emails have revealed that the President’s son, Don Trump Jr. accepted the meeting on the premise that he would be offered incriminating information on Hillary Clinton by way of the Russian government, Republicans turned it around and attacked Democrats for hiring Fusion GPS, a research firm, to investigate ties between Trump associates and Russia. Fusion GPS in turn hired Christopher Steele, the former British spy who produced a salacious dossier that suggested the Russians may have the goods on Trump, a scurrilous charge Trump aides and supporters say is part of a fake campaign to diminish the President.
  
 
