Kannur: When the residents of   began an agitation under the banner of   a few months ago against the proposed NH-bypass through their paddy fields,   opposed them and even launched a campaign against them though they were party sympathizers. But, it seems things are changing and there is a ceasefire. Recently, CPM district secretary P Jayarajan said that Vayalkilikal are not CPM’s enemies and the leader of Vayalkilikal, Suresh Keezhattur, openly praised the environmental initiatives taken by CPM on their Facebook page.

 Though Vayalkilikal had planned a long march to Thiruvananthapuram, it seems unlikely because the agitators think that it would be a meaningless exercise as central government has the responsibility to finalize the alignment. Incidentally, Vayalkilikal began backtracking from the plan when there was a feeling that extremist elements were supporting them with ulterior motives. They feared that this might affect them adversely and their village would become a hub of political rivalry and violence.
 
 CPM had also raised the argument that the agitation had been hijacked by extremist elements and agitators, and CPM leadership had a meeting immediately before the meeting of Vayalkilikal and their supporters on May 5.
 
 But CPM leadership’s soft corner for them has not gone down well with local leaders because it was in the name of the agitation against NH bypass that some party members were suspended. Now when the stance has changed, it might affect the credibility of the party, said local leaders. Jayarajan felt that if the agitators are branded as enemies, they would join the enemy camp.
 
 For Vayalkilikal, this fear is justified as parties, including BJP, had made efforts to make inroads into Keezhattur and it would not be a welcome move. The decision to put on hold the long march has nothing to do with the meeting with Jayarajan, said Suresh.
 
 “The action committee has politics, which is not necessarily the politics of the individuals attached to it and we have not changed our stance just because we have held discussions with CPM leadership,” said Suresh, who added that the outfit will not allow extremist groups to enter Keezhattur in the name of bypass agitation.
 
 “We welcome the CPM leader’s comment that Vayalkilikal are not party’s enemies, but that does not mean we have compromised our mission,” said Suresh. If the central government approves the demand of Vayalkilikal and recommends a change in the alignment, and the state government opposes the change, we will take out a march to Thiruvananthapuram, he said, adding that the group will pursue legal options if Centre and NHAI refuse to change the alignment.
 
 
