For Vattiyoorkavu native Sreekumaran Nair, chief cook at the   (ICH), at Spencer Junction, Thiruvananthapuram, it has never been just a job. The 57-year-old looks anxious as he talks about bidding farewell to the ICH which has been closed down by the Food Safety officials on October 20, 2017 citing faulty drainage.

 Sreekumaran Nair, who has served at the ICH for more than 15 years, airs his concerns about the ambiguity of his retirement, “On April 18, I will turn 58, my retirement age. All I wanted was to work till the last day of my career at ICH at Spencer Junction. My dream was a farewell party by my colleagues in front of our daily customers.” Being forced to stay at home all day has been like meeting with an accident, he says.
 “Being at home before my retirement is intimidating. I wish to work there for one more day before my retirement. But it’s been closed for more than 100 days now, and I fear that this old man will be denied his retirement farewell also,” he says.
 
 For the manager-in-charge of the ICH, Sreekumar Nair KS, too, the place has been more like home than a workplace. “There are a total of 40 employees of different age groups here and all are like a family. Now they have been transferred to other branches across the city. But their salary is given from here”.
 Even today, Sreekumar arrives at the outlet before 8 am, the opening time. “I am the caretaker now and stay here till night. At times one of our employees works as the night guard”.
 And loyal customers miss the familiar aroma of piping hot chicken cutlets and coffee as they pass by Spencer Junction. Being near to government offices and Kerala University College, the location of the ICH was one of its main attractions, says Sreekumar.
 
 Looking at the now empty chairs and tables, he rues, “It used to be hustle and bustle here all day, especially at noon and the evenings. Also it was a meeting place for several important people in our society, from politicians to film stars. My friendship with them also helped me to stay updated about everything, from the current happenings to technological innovations.”
 
 Filmmaker   agrees. “Since my Pre-degree days, I have been a regular here. For me it’s not an eatery but a hangout space where I have spent time with my friends for the last 40 years. Our gang of friends have a favourite corner at the back where we settle during the evenings. I feel a kind of emptiness now, after the place shut down.”
 Theatre activist and actor Krishnan Balakrishnan shares the same sentiments as he tells us that ICH was his go-to get-together spot. “Being an artiste, I have numerous friends across the State and beyond. So whenever we plan to meet or to set out for a trip, ICH will be the location as it is popular and known to everyone. ‘Will meet at Spencer Junction, ICH’ we would say. It was the spot from where many of our artistic projects took birth. We have met all kinds of people there.”
 
 Not just the celebs, the youth in the city are also fans of the ICH, which was an affordable hangout for them. Nayana Sooryan, a young filmmaker reveals that the ICH was the place which changed her life. “I studied at the University of Kerala and have been coming to ICH since 2007. The many discussions I had there, which shaped my mind, which made me a filmmaker today. Everyone, from students to families could indulge in tasty snacks at an affordable price. The evenings at ICH were special to me as I have come across many prolific stars in our film industry here, enjoying a cup of coffee sans any starry airs.
 
 The ICH also has a history of breaking many a norm. Homemaker Lekshmi Subhash recalls that it was the only place where she could bond with her friends back in the 80s, when it was taboo for girls to go to restaurants. “The ICH is not a restaurant for me, but a place where I could spend hours with my friends during my college days. We used to prepare notes sitting in the ICH after borrowing books from the nearby Central Public Library and the University Library. Nobody would disturb us and though it was crowded, it ensured privacy. I also remember politicians dropping in from the MLA quarters nearby, and it was a venue for many revolutionary political decisions. It was also a lovers’ corner for students! I was the University College Union Councillor for five years straight and ICH was our union meeting place.”
 Lekshmi also remembers that the ICH provided a ‘royal’ experience for middle-class customers. “When the servers in royal attire complete with the royal turban took our orders, it was a great feeling for people like me from a middle class family. It gave us a taste of European hospitality in those days. The ICH building was a part of the architectural history of the capital city.”
 
 The restaurant has been closed for more than three months, but customers from faraway places still visit, unaware of the fact. “People from other districts used to drop in to get a sip of the delicious coffee when they came to Thiruvananthapuram for government and personal commitments. Some of our customers ask us when it will re-open,” says Sreekumar as he returns to his cabin.
 
 
