PATNA: Reports that two aides of   orchestrated their imprisonment in Ranchi’s   a few days before the conviction of the RJD chief have led to a fresh war of words between the ruling   and RJD.

 While the JD (U) on Tuesday said Lalu’s feudal mindset prompted him to hatch such a conspiracy, the   regretted the “exploitation” of poor people by   making them believe he was the messiah of the poor.
 
 “It is extremely unfortunate that Lalu sent the two poor people to a jail for selfish motives. His family became richer after Lalu came to power, but he never did anything for the poor and instead appropriated properties of others,” said deputy CM and one of the fodder scam petitioners Sushil Kumar Modi.
 
 Modi said a case of forgery should be lodged against the two RJD workers and they should be shifted to another prison.
 
 The RJD chief was lodged in the Birsa jail on December 23 last year following his conviction by a CBI court at Ranchi in a fodder scam case. 
 
  Mahto and Madan Yadav, said to be RJD workers and known as those belonging to Lalu’s inner circle, allegedly got themselves arrested on the basis of a false FIR lodged by a relative of Madan, alleging the duo snatched Rs 10,000 from him.
 
 According to the BJP and JD (U), Laxman and Madan are serving Lalu inside the jail.
 
 JD (U) spokesperson   said Lalu sending two aides to the jail is a classic example of his feudal mindset. “The authorities should probe the matter,” he said.
 
 The RJD, however, refuted that Laxman and Madan were Lalu aides. “Laxman and Madan are RJD workers, not aides of Lalu. Police should probe how they got inside the jail. Laluji never asked anyone to go to the jail,” said RJD’s   unit chief spokesperson Shakti Singh Yadav.
 
 RJD functionaries’ meetings
 
 Leader of Opposition in legislative assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has convened division-level meetings of the RJD functionaries at Patna from Wednesday. Party sources said the meetings would chalk out strategies for taking a leaflet containing party chief Lalu Prasad’s letter to every household over the next few weeks. 
 
 
