Mysuru: Determined to reduce the burden on the dumpyard in the city, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) is zealously promoting on-site   at market places, which are some of the major sources of garbage generation.

 In what is being dubbed a first-of-its-kind initiative, the civic body will first try the method on a small scale. If it turns out to be successful, the model will be implemented on a larger scale so that the waste generated at markets can be treated on site, which is aimed at reducing the burden on the Vidyaranyapuram Sewage Farm.
 
 MCC has initiated the model at the Devaraja, Vani Vilas and Mandi Mohalla markets, where the trash is being successfully treated – largely the result of the efforts of  .
 
 MCC health officer DG Nagaraj, who is also the civic body’s nodal officer for the Swachh Survekshan, expressed his delight with the success of the venture. “We started this initiative a while ago, and it is working well. This initiative has helped us treat a few kilos of waste on the spot. Thanks to the efforts of the pourakarmikas, who are voluntarily handling the compost bins,” Nagaraj told TOI.
 
 The waste is being treated using the aerobic method with the help of plastic containers, which is one of the simplest mechanisms for waste processing. It is a slow process, which entails decomposition, during which organic matter gradually breaks down – one of the benefits of this method is that there is no putrid stench of decay. Each layer of waste is subsequently transferred to the bins, after which cocopeat is spread over to turn the waste into compost. The containers fill up in two weeks, and it takes around a month for the waste to turn into compost.
 
 In a bid to encourage pourakarmikas to initiate a similar initiative at other localities, MCC is giving them compost free of cost. “They are making a small sum by selling the compost,” said Nagaraj.
 
 Compost bins, each having a capacity of 200 litres, has been placed at the markets. As many as six bins have been placed at  , which generates tonnes of  .
 
 
