MALDA: Migrant labourers from across   came in truckloads to the district magistrate’s office since morning on Tuesday demanding Rs 50,000 compensation and 200-day work from the government following chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s announcement to this effect. 

 The gathering swelled by afternoon with men breaking barricades put up in front of the DM’s office, posing a law and order threat.
 
 The rush was in response to a notification by the Malda administration last week inviting compensation applications from migrant labourers. The administration, however, was at a loss to tackle the huge crowd when the DM’s office had not even received any government order (GO) for making payments. Add to this, the CM’s announcement for giving 200-day work for labourers coming back home, following the brutal killing in Rajasthan of Afrazul, a labourer from Kaliachak. 
 
 Sadananda Jogi had come all the way from Gazole to enrol himself. “I have been going to Delhi, Gujarat and Kerala since childhood in search of jobs. Now, my brothers and sisters have joined me. I’ve heard the CM has announced work for us at home. If I can work for 200 days, why should I go elsewhere?” said Jogi. 
 
 Even the women were in no mood to be left behind. In a district where women have a fair share in the agricultural workforce and some venture out to other states, they joined the men in huge numbers in the crowd. 
 
 Sona Murmu,   Das and Tanjira Biwi wanted the 200-day work and compensation from the Banerjee government. “If we get a one-time Rs 50,000 support, we can set up a small business and need not have to go out of the state,” Murmu said.
 
 District panchayat and rural development officer   didn’t evade the issue. “Huge numbers from this district go to distant places as labourers every year. We are trying to enlist them for possible engagement under MGNREGS.” 
 
 But   conceded that there was no GO to give such labourers Rs 50,000 compensation. “What’s more, only 90 days are left in this financial year. How can we provide 200 days’ job under MGNREGS?” he said. 
 
 The MGNREG Act makes it mandatory for the government to provide work for enlisted labourers or give them compensation if the panchayat can’t find work for them. But this is different from the Rs 50,000 one-time compensation the CM had announced for those coming back home after losing jobs due to demonetisation. 
 
 The huge gathering on Tuesday, 11 months after the CM made the announcement during the placing of state budget in the assembly in February 2017, caught eyeballs in the state administration. Banerjee had announced that a Rs 250-crore fund had been set aside in the budget to give Rs 50,000 compensation to each of those who had lost jobs in other states after demonetisation and had to return home. State finance minister Amit Mitra, too, told the media that a data bank to identify the needy was being set up.
 
 The district administration fears the situation may go out of its hands in a day or two if the crowd increases by the day. 
 
 
