BHUBANESWAR: Acid burnt her body but love strengthened her soul, mused   of Jagatsinghpur, an acid attack survivor who is all set to begin a new innings of her life this Valentine’s Day. The 24-year-old will get engaged to her beau — 26-year-old Saroj Sahu of   — in Lucknow on February 14.

 Pramodini, a native of Kanakapur village under Tirtol police station in the district, had had acid thrown on her face by an Army official,  , on May 4, 2009. He had attacked her in anger, disfiguring her face and leaving her with severely compromised eyesight, after she rebuffed his advances. Santosh was arrested on November 26 last year, eight years after committing the crime.
 
 Pramodini spent seven agonising months in   in Cuttack after the attack. She was bedridden for around five years in her house in Tirtol. In 2014, when her condition deteriorated, she was admitted in a private nursing home in Cuttack. It was while she was battling for life that she met Saroj.
 
 “I had gone to the nursing home to meet a nurse friend of mine. I saw   lying on a bed there and could not sleep the entire night. I kept going back the nursing home to visit her. We eventually became friends. I wanted to help her lead a better life. I left my job as a medical representative and began taking care of her,” Saroj recalled.
 
 Pramodini said her friendship with Saroj brought about much-needed change and positivity during the difficult days. “In one minute I was writhing with pain, in the second, I was laughing at his stories. He was cracking jokes near my bed and I would laugh out loud. I would cry after he left the nursing home for the day,” she added.
 
 Saroj said the doctors had assured him that Pramodini would recover. “They told me that it would take around five years for her to be able to walk but she managed to achieve the feat within six months of being released from the nursing home,” he added. Pramodini also began taking slow but sure steps towards a life of independence although she still needs help to get around. She can cook her meals and also manage household chores with some help.
 
 Saroj, a history graduate, said he did not realize when his friendship had turned into love. He proposed to Pramodini on January 14, 2016. Her reaction? Tears. “I was also in love with Saroj but could not express that to him. I feared that I would never live like a normal woman due to my scarred body. I thought that I can’t even enter the bathroom without help, how would I lead a family life,” said reminisced.
 
 After a surgery in Chennai in September last year, Pramodini regained partial vision in her left eye. “I wanted to see the love of my life. Thank goodness, I got my vision back. I saw Saroj on the flight and I cried. I felt so happy for him,” said the woman who now works in an NGO in Delhi.
 
 The couple chose to organize the ring ceremony in Lucknow as most of her friends, also acid attack survivors, are based in the city. “I wanted my engagement to be an occasion of hope for my friends. Hence we are holding the ceremony there,” Pramodini said. “When others will see her at the ceremony, they will get inspiration from her,” Saroj added.
 
 
