LUDHIANA: In a shocking case, a group of five miscreants, allegedly sprinkled petrol on a third gender leader before running away with his valuables at a dera in   on Tuesday early morning. Not only this, the miscreants allegedly made tea to beat the cold in his kitchen with ease and had tea before leaving the dera premises.

 Police officials said on Monday late night, the victim, a 60-year-old Joginder Das, Mukhya Sewadar (head man) of Udaas Heen Dera Bageechi Waala, Mullanpur went to sleep in his room. They said at around 12.15 am, on Tuesday, he got up after hearing some noise coming from outside his room. He saw five miscreants, all of them with their faces covered, entering the premises by breaking the gate of the dera. One of them was also seen carrying a sharp-edged weapon.
 
  told the villagers that one of the miscreants was carrying a can of petrol in his hand. He added the accused then sprinkled petrol on him and threatened to put him on fire after which he asked them what his fault is.
 
 The victim further said the accused then asked him to hand over his costly belongings. He added the accused, then entered his kitchen, and searched his room. They fled with his three   rings, a silver glass and spoon and Rs 12,000.
 
 Das told the villagers the miscreants had entered the kitchen of the dera and even prepared tea to beat the cold.
 
 Police officials said in the morning, the other workers of the dera reached the premises and saw Das drenched in petrol. They informed the village Panchayat. The workers said the sarpanch and panches of Panchayat informed the police at around 10 am and the team headed by ASI reached the spot at around 12pm.
 
 On reaching the spot, police have started an investigation into the matter.
 
 Station House Officer (SHO) Dakha police station said they are taking the statement of the complainant after which necessary action under the law will be taken.
 
 Police officials said Das lived alone on the premises at night. They added the dera didn’t have   cameras.
 
 In the meantime, social activists have raised several questions over Ludhiana (rural) police’s efficiency to provide security to common people in general and third gender people in particular.
 
 “If the miscreants are making tea and having it at the crime spot, this reflects how they are not afraid of the police. This also raises questions on the security of third gender people in the rural areas, especially when petrol is being sprinkled on a Mukhya Sewadar,” said  , a social activist.
 
