MUMBAI: It lay sprawled on the gym floor, staring into space. A young cop, who strolled into the police gym around 8.30 am, did a double take on noticing the spotted creature-an adult leopard-and rushed out immediately. The big cat had walked into the gym housed on the   (SRPF) ground around 8.30 am on Sunday. The forest department was intimated and the adult male cat, aged about five, was rescued in a little over two hours. 

 The gym, meant exclusively for SRPF personnel, is a spacious sprawl that houses a wrestling arena. "The rescue team surveyed the area and the   was rescued soon after it was spotted," said Pawan Sharma of Resqink Association for Wildlife Welfare, a non-profit body that teamed up with the forest department for the rescue.
 
 "The leopard was spotted in the akhada [wrestling arena]," said Sanjay Waghmode, superintendent of the lion safari at Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP),  , who was a part of the rescue team. "The operation lasted two hours."
 
 The fact that there was no crowding around the spot facilitated the rescue operation a great deal, said Dr Jitendra Ramgaonkar, deputy conservator of forests of Thane division. "In civilian areas, commotion and chaos by crowds who stand and stare, end up hampering rescue operations. Here, at the police grounds, the jawans were quite disciplined. We herded them away and they did not get into our way. So, the time taken to locate the leopard and rescue it was drastically reduced."
 
 Last December, a female leopard had entered a kindergarten class at   in   (east). As onlookers thronged the place and created a din, it stayed put in the classroom for almost 12 hours before it was tranquilized.
 
 In the latest case too, once the leopard was cornered, a tranquilizer dart was used to sedate it, said Dr Shailesh Pethe, veterinary officer of SGNP. "No major injuries were found on the wild cat," he said.
 
  A medical examination and micro-chiping of the feline was done before it was carted away to the national park's leopard rescue centre. It will soon be released into its natural habitat. 
 
 
