NAGPUR: The ‘Clean Morna River’ campaign, a citizen’s initiative that began three months ago, will culminate in   on Sunday. Almost seven out of eight kilometre stretch has already been made free of solid waste and weeds, and remaining one kilometre patch of the heritage river, which had been rotting for the last over 50 years, will be cleaned of the garbage on Sunday.

 The first-of-its kind campaign started on January 13 when more than 6,000 people of Akola and nearby places took the pledge of reviving the river. “Magnetically attracted” to the initiative, Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded the effort on his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme. Till now, around 35,000 people, including senior citizens, housewives, NGOs, schoolchildren, youngsters and professionals from various fields, have been a part of the campaign. 
 
 Around 5,000 people are expected to turn up on Sunday to witness the community reaping the benefit of their hard work. “This will be the last day of public participation. After this, work of riverfront development will continue from May onwards,” Akola district collector Astik Kumar Pandey, the torchbearer of the campaign, said.
 
 As part of the development plan, over 10 ghats will be constructed on the lines of Sabarmati riverfront project. Apart from this, two gardens, walking path, restaurants and a chaupati will also be made. “Till now, we have received donations of Rs20 lakh. We also plan to install LED street lights alongside the river,” Pandey said.
 
 To ensure continuous cleaning of the lake, the authorities have prepared a special garbage cleaning boat. “We have modified an old paddle boat, a JCB and a crane. As water weeds have a tendency to grow again, we will use these machine for cleaning the lake regularly,” Pandey said. 
 
 At the eight major drains which were polluting the river, solid waste is being trapped. To further ensure that only clean water enters Morna, the administration will be using the phytorid wastewater treatment plant which is the patented technology of Nagpur-based National   (Neeri). Another technology called ‘bio-sanitiser’ will also be used.
 
 The district administration is also aiming at finding a place in the Golden Book of World Records. “We are applying for three categories — maximum number of citizens’ participation on a single day, women’s participation and overall citizens’ participation in large numbers,” sub-divisional officer Sanjay Khadse, who is also the project’s nodal officer, said.
 
 As reported by TOI earlier, the success of Akola’s ‘Clean Morna River’ campaign has prodded the state government to take up rejuvenation of rivers. In its fourth budget presented in the assembly last month, the state government has allotted Rs27 crore for cleaning and beautification of the state’s water resources. 
 
 
