Nagpur: According to senior academicians, the education system must adapt to the current generation of students which has high level of exposure to information. A panel discussion on handling board exam related stress, saw both CBSE academicians and state board official agreeing that change must come from parent and schools first. 

 Mahesh Karajgaonkar, divisional board chairman (Latur and Amravati), said, “I think the problem is that we are not able to cope up with the social intelligence of students. Even a small kid can now operate a complicated smartphone with ease, so the information we provide him now has to be of a higher level.”
 
 Neeru Kapai, co-founder of Modern School, said parents nowadays have unrealistic expectations. “In older times, there were five to six children in a family and each one would be good in some activity. This meant that collectively kids gave an all-round performance for parents. This ultimately meant that parents had the satisfaction of seeing their children doing well in different fields,” said Kapai. “Now we have single child families and still the poor soul is expected to perform at the same level,” she added making her point about parental pressure. 
 
 The panel discussion was organized by Global CARE (Centre for Adolescence Research and Education), at the Prestigious Schools Exhibition which is promoted by TOI and Educationista.
 
 Dr Rajiv Mohta, panel moderator and founder of Global CARE, said teaching children to cope with stress is crucial. “Give children responsibilities, prepare them for the tough road ahead. Spend quality time, become friends with them and let them share their thoughts with you,” said Dr Mohta.
 
 Academicians also talked about the implementation, and now finally scrapping, of Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) pattern by CBSE to reduce stress. Mukta Chatterjee, executive director of Centre Point School, said, “The CCE was implemented from 2009-10 academic session but it was not implemented in the right spirit. The idea and intention was really good. But now that it is scrapped students will find a way to deal with the stress, just like they did before the CCE era.”
 
 Anmol Badjatia, principal of Jain International strongly felt that the no-fail policy has played a role in failure to manage stress. “The government must rework this policy as it is not doing any good. I strongly believe that there should be a proper exam at STD V level to deal with this. Students must be able to do critical thinking and solving problems with out of the box solutions,” said Badjatia. 
 
 Anjali Reuben, head of administration at Gaikwad Patil International School, said, “Basic reason for stress is competition to achieve first rank and fear of failure of coming last. Motivating conversations are the need of the hour.”
 
 Audience too felt the need for parents to be proactive in the process. Pradeep Mistry, principal of The Achievers School, said, “The learning process should be throughout the year rather than the eleventh hour studies to increase the level of preparedness before examinations.” 
 
 
