SECUNDERABAD: South Central Railway (SCR) will undertake track renewals on 12,745 km this year in   and   to avert any train accident.

 At a review meeting with the heads of various departments at   on Monday, SCR general manager   put the focus on track renewals and elimination of level crossings.
 
 Last year, only 5,505km tracks were repaired in the zone. Sources told TOI that the railway board has put the onus on SCR to cover another 7,240km in the current fiscal.
 
 Track renewals include mending the weld or rail fractures that pave way for train mishaps. Railway officials said there is around 48-50 per cent dip in the cases of weld fractures when compared to 2016.
 
 “Nowadays, rail fractures have become almost halved. In the past two years, such cases came down from 83 to 42. As per the rail board’s priority on safety, we have had to revise our action plan to renew 12,745km tracks at a brisk pace,” said a railway official.
 
 In the last Union budget, the Centre granted ?800 crore to SCR for track renewals. The railway officials said the allocation is nearly 32 per cent more than the 2017-18 fiscal when the zone was allocated ?604.7 crore. “In addition to the previously sanctioned track renewal works, the Centre has also sanctioned new track renewals in 41 sections in the two states,” the officials added.
 
 With the monsoon barely two months away, the railways also instructed officials to take a call on the wobbling bridges that may pose a threat to the safety of passengers. According to the sources, over half of the 77 bridges in both the states, which were identified for repairs, have been revamped till date.
 
 “We have set a target to complete renovation of the rest of the bridges. This year, the budgetary grant for bridges is ?44.8 crore, which is around 45 per cent more than last year,” said an official.
 
 However, railway engineers have detected nearly 4,487 defects on major bridges and SCR is already carrying out repairs. Besides, the railways will also have to meet the deadline to install the train collision avoidance system that was sanctioned in the last fiscal.
 
