Vijayawada: The arrest of Ankala Prudviraj (27), a fourth year LLB student in Siddhartha Law College, created a flutter in Vijayawada on Saturday.

 East Godavari district police claimed that they arrested two important persons — Prudviraj and one Chandan Kumar Misra from West Bengal. The duo were suspected of planning to assassinate vice-chancellor of Hyderabad Central University (HCU) Podili Apparao. Police said Haribhushan alias Yapa Narayana, Telangana State Committee Secretary of   Party is behind the murder attempt.
 
 Prudviraj, a Dalit, resides in Sai Srinivasa Nagar, Kesarapalli Village under Gannavaram mandal. Locals of the area were furious with the arrest of Prudviraj. Stating that there was nothing suspicious about the law student, locals said Prudviraj was serious about education. On the other hand, activists from Vipalava Rachaitala Sangam took to social media to condemn the arrest and claimed Prudviraj and Misra were kidnapped by the police from Vijayawada Railway Station four days ago.
 
 Cops rubbished these allegations and said the duo were arrested on Friday and after a thorough investigation were produced in court. “We have responded to a habeas corpus petition. We will respond to allegations in court,” the cops said.
 
 It may be noted that Prudviraj had previously joined a degree course under HCU and was there till 2013. Senior officials said he was a member of Telangana Vidyardhi Vedika, who was inspired by Marxism and Lenin’s revolutionary ideology. Cops believe Prudviraj joined the Maoists after Rohit Vemula’s suicide. In fact, a number of incidents at HCU in 2013 pushed the youth to join the maoists.
 
 Speaking at a press conference, East Godavari SP Vishal Gunni pointed out that Prudviraj was in touch with Maoist leaders like Sukhadev, dala commander of Cherla area in Bhadrachalam and started moving with him in Maoist dalam for two months in Telangana.
 
 At one point of time, Pulluri Prasada Rao alias Chandranna informed Prudviraj about his wife Mothibai’s illness. Earlier, Prudviraj was arrested by Palwancha police at Khammam district when he was taking Mothibai for treatment. He was sent to central jail in Warangal.
 
 Meanwhile, a police intelligence report, in possession with TOI, suggested that the Maoist Party had been looking to recruit students through its frontal organisations. Police sources, on condition of anonymity, said students are being recruited from different colleges and some have been picked up from Hyderabad institutes.
 
 
