NAGPUR: A day after TOI’s report on Nagpur bench of   slamming the lawyers pleading for the government, litigants and other lawyers lauded its efforts seeking performance appraisal/assessment reports.

 Quoting Justice Rohit Deo, TOI reported how the HC sternly directed the state law and judiciary department’s principal secretary to personally file affidavit of all lawyers attached to the government pleader’s (GP) office here before March 12.
 
 Some upset government lawyers told TOI that the state finance department had failed to release their salaries since the last 6-8 months due to which they were suffering. They stated that they had moved many proposals to the government but nothing progressed till date.
 
 The litigants and lawyers, however, flayed them stating that it couldn’t be the reason of not performing their statutory duties for providing justice. They cited many examples where the government was forced to engage senior counsels to plead important matters due to apparent failure of its lawyers.
 
 Citing some instances, they said   was appointed to plead cases related to the scholarship scam, Sunil Manohar was roped in to plead PIL on pesticides deaths and Anand Jaiswal’s help was taken for irrigation scam cases. “Many lawyers like Anand Parchure are roped in as special counsel to plead cases on government’s behalf,” they said.
 
 “The behaviour of government pleaders and prosecutors is demeaning to the judiciary, and insult and humiliation to the judges, who are always well prepared. It was bound to happen, as most of them were political appointments, who played as stooges for their masters. Many of them have never practised in the HC,” said noted lawyer  .
 
 He demanded to constitute a panel of legal experts headed by a retired judge to scrutinize the appraisal reports of these government lawyers and decide on retaining them.
 
 “Although their concerns are genuine, they shouldn’t reflect it on their work, as ultimately the litigants are at loss. Due to their lethargy, the cases are adjourned numerous times for no reason. We face harassment of every time attending the hearings and wasting our precious time and money. They can’t act like their counterparts in other government departments due to whom cases are filed in the courts,” said litigant  .
 
 Another petitioner Chetan Rajkarne said judiciary was the only alternative for the common man for getting justice, and if lawyers representing government engaged in such behaviour, where would he go.
 
 “We move the courts as other government departments didn’t work and dare us to move to the judiciary. Due to government lawyers, pendency is increasing as they’re often ill-prepared. Surprisingly, no one is punished,” he said.
 
 
