 seems to have struck a chord with child audiences. The actor’s hosting career boasts of mostly kids’ reality shows. After 'Super Dancer 2' and 'Voice India Kids 2', he has now bagged ' '.

 Jay shares, “I am extremely fond of kids and bond with them in no time. If you give me a choice between a regular reality show and a kids’ reality show, I would pick the latter without blinking an eye. They are real in front of the camera as opposed to us adults, who try to fake 
 flawlessness.”
 
 Point out how children’s reality shows are a controversial topic, as many feel that it’s not right to expose young minds to the pressure of being in the spotlight, and Jay explains, “These kids are performing so well at the age of five. I don’t think I was good at anything when I was that young. They have to face the world some day, so there is nothing wrong if they learn it when they are young. Also, it’s not just reality shows that pressurise children. Aren’t they pressurised to study more and score well? Let’s give these little stars their due credit. They know how to handle stardom better than most of us grown-ups.” 
 
 Jay has stayed away from daily soaps for almost eight years, and wants to get back to the fiction genre. He says, “I am gearing up to get back to the fiction genre and am in talks with some producers. I am an actor first and then a host.   is in an interesting phase, where producers are experimenting with new concepts and making male-oriented shows. I never abandoned TV even while I was doing films, as I follow the ideology that agar gaadi track parr chal rahi hai toh usko disturb mat karo. I am proud of my roots and whatever I am today is because of TV. In fact, it won’t be wrong to say that I got films because of my television background.”
 
 He had made heads turn with his erotic outing, ' ', which marked his debut in Bollywood. Ask him if he will be comfortable exploring the genre again and he replies, “No, I wouldn’t. Firstly, I won’t be comfortable going down that route again and secondly, I don’t like to repeat myself. See, people spoke about me in 'Hate Story 2', because my character offered a shock value to them. It was different from my image on TV. I am averse to locking lips on screen, but I won’t do it for the heck of it. Unlike actors like Varun Dhawan, who will be praised for their acting chops besides their kissing scenes, when a new actor kisses in a film, it becomes a talking point. I work to get more work and if a film doesn’t translate into a better film, I wouldn’t take it up just to be seen on the big screen. Ek baar aao, but itne achhe se aao ki baat ho. I am not vying to just play the hero, even a strong character role will interest me.”
 
 
