BENGALURU: The Central Board of Secondary Education’s ( ) decision to conduct retests for Class 10 mathematics and Class 12 economics examinations amidst question paper leaks has sparked online fury, with students demanding the proposal be scrapped.

 As of 8.30pm on Thursday, at least eight   on the issue had cumulatively been signed by over 77,000 people. Students shouldn’t be made to pay for the “incompetence of CBSE”, Rudrakshi Ghosh claimed in her petition, which has drawn nearly 17,000 signatures in less than 24 hours.
 
 “This is just the incompetence of CBSE to hold examinations, and if they can’t they shouldn’t,” Rudrakshi wrote. “They can’t go on playing with our lives. The whole country cannot suffer for things done by a few students. We’ve given our everything for this one exam. We’ve worked hard for a whole year and we just can’t do it another time (sic).”
 
 Most signatories to Ghosh’s petition say it is unfair that students have to suffer for officials’ inefficiency, and it is the latter’s responsibility to ensure the paper is not leaked. Other students said they couldn’t sit for another test since the pressure was immense. One even suggested the   be conducted only in the affected region.
 
 Keeping it simple, Subhranil Karmakar wrote, “I worked hard and my exams went well. I don’t want to take the chance of giving it again.” Sehej Kaur said, “If CBSE has failed in regulating its affairs and has a botched-up system, children should not be made to suffer. Yet again the paper may be leaked, hence re-tests are absolutely pointless.”
 
 Brotin Bhattacharya, who wrote on behalf of his friends “who have opted for science + economics”, said: “They are suffering because they have their Jee mains (sic) and other competitive exams. The re-test is putting them in lot of trouble.”
 
 Box: Anger in diaspora 
 
 One petition seemed to talk about the large Indian population residing and studying abroad. In his petition, Mohammed Fayiz Parappan said: “Indian Students From Foreign Countries too depend on CBSE for board examinations...And we are not responsible for malpractices that have happened...Adequate compensation or no retest....Jaihind!! (sic).” It has been signed by 388 people.
 
 “Many students from middle-east countries have left for India (sic) or other foreign countries for further studies or entrance examinations. Why should everyone suffer for a mistake of only few people. Please consider the above situation and act adequately. Thanks,” wrote Mohammed Saud. 
 
 
