“The palace of the governor crowns the Capitol…. It is only architecture which can give all the things which go beyond calculation.” — Le Corbusier

 Though Chandigarh prides itself on the recent Unesco heritage tag accorded to the  , ironically enough, it’s yet to complete the most symbolic and architecturally powerful element of the composition: the ‘Governor’s Palace’.
 
 One of the reasons for aborting the Governor’s Palace at the time of its inception was the rather misinterpreted royal, maharaja-like ring of the term ‘Palace’ – actually alluding to a ‘public place’ in its original French connotation. A palace was clearly something undesirable for the abode of new democratic India’s governor. Reluctantly, Corbusier substituted it with the rather a dull, prosaic design for a Museum of Knowledge (with an ambiguous function), for which there were few takers. And resultantly nothing was ever built and a huge void exists ever since.
 
 The absence of the Governor’s Palace is like a sore absence and does injustice to Corbusier’s genius. Though, it’s the smallest of the four edifices, it truly gives the proverbial finishing touch to the finely balanced compositions of sculptural concrete buildings, playful forms, landscape and the symbolism of the ‘monuments’. Its massing of cuboid forms over pillared halls, recessed floor in between to be culminated by curving canopy akin to an Indian ‘barsati’ above to enable the resident of the exalted place to connect to the stars, heaven and the distant ethereal Kasauli lights, all make for a mesmerising multi-sensory rooftop experience.
 
 Recently, heartening initiative has been undertaken by the Chandigarh administration to explore more relevant, imaginative and viable functions for the ‘Governor’s Palace’ and to take a well-rounded and considered decision on building the original design with an adapted contemporary use or close the idea. The final decision, of course, will be made in due consultation with the Foundation Le Corbusier and other required due diligence regarding the Unesco guidelines.
 
 However, some premature concerns regarding undertaking the project need to be addressed. The readapted use of the Governor’s Palace for a more contemporary and relevant function was deliberated quite some time back by an expert committee constituted by the Chandigarh administration and some possible usages were shortlisted, which could be looked at afresh.
 
 The original design allows a plenty of room to adapt it for other functions as it was more for formal public functions and only a limited accommodation for the personal quarters for the Governor were kept at the upper two levels. The mere act of filling in the present gaping void with the structure is an aesthetic function by itself.
 
 Then some doubting naysayers can raise the issue of its violating the Unesco tag with ‘changes to the property’. But it needs to be understood that the location for the Governor’s Palace is ‘not’ in the nominated property zone but falls in the buffer zone. And what would be constructed, will be not a new feature, but something designed and ordained by Le Corbusier as an integral part of his ethereal masterly concept.
 
 World over additions and modifications to existing Corbusier masterpieces have been undertaken after his death, in some cases facilities designed by contemporary architects. Even the church at Firminy in France designed by Corbusier was built 40 years later after his death. In the Capitol Complex, too, the Open Hand monument was built in the 1980s much after Corbusier’s death and so has been the Geometric Hill mural completed as recently as 2015 –both to tremendous appreciation by Corbusier experts world over. Recent additions even to a top monument — part of the Unesco heritage nomination list of his buildings in France — such as the Chapelle Notre-Dame Haut at Ronchamp have been undertaken by contemporary architect Renzo Piano after responsible deliberations.
 
 During the conference ‘celebrating Chandigarh—50 years of the Idea,’ held in January 1999, a large galaxy of international architects from world over assembled in the city. A full-scale model of the Governor’s Palace was also erected at the actual site. Among the large number of participants — Norman Foster, Sir Kenneth Frankmpton, Charles Correa, B V Doshi — who visited the site, concluded that the unbuilt project must be made, so as to give coherence to the fragmented concept to of Corbusier. Even during the 2015 Le Corbusier global symposium held in Chandigarh, top experts raised the need for its early completion — and even one full session was devoted to this theme. All these ideas have recently been published in the book Le Corbusier Rediscovered: Chandigarh and Beyond released in December 2017. 
 
 During B V Doshi’s visit to the city in 2016, detailed deliberations on this subject were held, who strongly opined that the project must be completed early. Who better than Doshi — the 2018 Pritzker Award winner (considered the Nobel Prize of architecture) — and someone who actually worked on the project in Corbusier’s office in Paris in the 1950s and later on in Chandigarh, can hold a candle on this issue?
 
 When the Governor’s Palace is built, the present derelict look and wild growth that greets the visitor beyond the main piazza will instead be replaced by the beautiful landscape design proposed by Corbusier as integral to his concept.
 
 Only when the Capitol, too, would be fully completed, the giant palm of the Open Hand monument will bless us fully.
 
 Rajnish Wattas, former principal, Chandigarh College of Architecture, is a noted heritage expert, architectural critic and author. His recently co-edited the book Le Corbusier Rediscovered: Chandigarh and Beyond, which was launched in December 2017
 
 Photo captions
 
 From Left to Right
 
 1. Model of Governor’s Palace placed in Le Corbusier Centre.
 
 2. Model of ‘Museum of Knowledge in LeC centre.
 
 3. Photo of Giani Rattan Rattan Singh model-maker with appreciation by Le Corbusier on sketch of Governor’s Palace
 
 
