Gurgaon: The first   death was reported from a Gurgaon hospital this winter when a 43-year-old man from   succumbed to the virus earlier this week.

 Bhupander Yadav, the son of a former Rajasthan minister, was admitted to Medanta hospital on January 11 after his condition worsened despite treatment at a private hospital in his hometown of Alwar. He died of multiple organ failure at Medanta on Monday, doctors said.
 
 “Bhupander was already critical when he was brought to Medanta. Along with shortness of breath, he was admitted with mild hemoptysis (coughing up of blood) and fever. There was blood in his sputum and fluid in his lungs,” a senior doctor of the hospital told TOI.
 
 “After being diagnosed as a case of H1N1 pneumonia, the patient was put on ventilation in the ICU. Despite our best efforts, his condition kept deteriorating and he passed away on January 15,” he added.
 
 Though Yadav was an outstation patient, this is the first swine flu death in Gurgaon this season. Till November 2017, eight cases of swine flu have been reported in the city, but there were no deaths.
 
 The health department has now instructed all government and private hospitals in Gurgaon to enhance the surveillance of H1N1 virus. The medical staff will keep an eye on symptoms like acute respiratory illness and carefully review any usual symptoms. If suspected or identified to be infected, the patient will have to be screened, investigated and treated as per government’s guidelines.
 
 “Only the authorised chemists and government hospitals are allowed to give Tamiflu to patients who are suffering from swine flu. However, they will have to maintain proper records,” said Dr SS Saroha, district malaria officer.
 
 As per the government guidelines, the cases of swine flu are categorised into three categories: A, B and C. The ‘Category A’ lists the cases with minor flu like symptoms that don’t require any treatment, ‘Category B’ lists the cases that require treatment but don’t need admission in hospital. Severe cases that require immediate admission in a special ward are listed in ‘Category C’. The H1N1 virus usually strikes in cold weather and was earlier reported only during winters. However, last year it changed the pattern and people were infected with swine flu during summer too.
 
 
