HYDERABAD: Public safety remains a distant dream for those who come from across the world to see the iconic Mecca Masjid. Mosque officials say that in spite of the 2007 deadly blast, the ground situation has not changed much.

  
  
 
 
 While there are dozens of high-definition   cameras on the premises and its periphery, no one has been appointed to monitor   that is being recorded, mosque officials say.
 
 “The control room which was set up exclusively to monitor the CCTV cameras has been locked from the time it was inaugurated,” M A  , superintendent of Mecca Masjid, said. “The control room has wall-to-wall carpets, two air conditioners and television screens to  , but no one to operate or monitor the live footage,” he added.
 
 Mosque officials lament that no eligible candidates for the post have been approved by the government. “It has been over six months since I sent a written application to authorities, but there has been no response,” Siddiqui said. The superintendent explained how he had selected a highly-qualified person recently after interviewing him and taking a practical test, but his appointment letter was held back because the state finance department did not give its approval.
 
 Another official said, on condition of anonymity, “Till the Masjid’s maintenance was under the endowments department, everything was good. Whatever the superintendent asked for was sanctioned immediately. Now, endowment and minority (sic) has become separate, and since then, any letter that goes from the minority department gets stuck with the finance department.”
 
 In fact, it took officials 17 years to fill just nine vacancies of sweepers, bathroom cleaners and workers appointed to change prayer mats.
 
 After the blast, a high-level committee was set up to decide how to secure Mecca Masjid. The committee recommended a certain number of trained security persons. About 25 home guards were appointed and 23 CCTV cameras were installed initially, but mosque officials informed that there was no one appointed to monitor CCTV footage. “One staff member was called from the police control room during its inauguration and after that no one has been here,” Siddiqui said.
 
 “There is no record of how much of money (being sanctioned) is being utilised. More than half of the budget that is released has lapsed,” he said.
 
 
 
