NEW DELHI: The Centre is likely to come out with some relief for Delhi traders from sealing of their shops and commercial establishments. Sources said the roadmap will be out before February 2, the date fixed by traders for a 48-hour protest.

 The Centre is also taking legal opinion from top law officers on how to deal with the crisis, considering that making any change in the Master Plan, including notifying over 350 stretches under commercial or mixed land use, will require inviting suggestions and objections. The   mandates 30 days’ public notice before deciding any change in land use. Sources said while change of land use would take time as the procedure would have to be followed, the Centre could intervene to cut conversion charges for shopcum-residential complexes.
 
 Giving relief from fine is a completely financial decision and the DDA can do it. This was done in the past as well when the authority reduced charges on upper floor of markets including Sarojini Nagar,   and Green Park Extension from Rs 89,094 to Rs 22,274 per sq metre and this is applicable till June 30,” a central government official said. Such a move will help traders operating in many areas, including Lajpat Nagar and   market, sources said.
 
 DDA is under the administrative control of the housing and urban affairs ministry. There were reports of home minister Rajnath Singh recently meeting Delhi lieutenant governor   recently to find a way out.
 
 On Saturday, the three municipal corporations ruled by BJP had passed resolutions to approach the   seeking a six-month stay on sealing drive and to appeal to Delhi government for early notification of 351 stretches under commercial and mixed land use. The resolutions included allowing commercial activities in basement, revision of use conversion charges and a uniform rate of Rs 22,274 per sq metre for shop-cum-residence complexes.
 
 City BJP leaders have been seeking the Centre’s intervention to bring relief to traders, particularly in the light of Delhi heading for bypolls.
 
