BHUBANESWAR: Hours before the announcement of results for the  , a section of state   leaders seems to have given up on retaining the seat the party has won thrice in the past. 

 Former minister and senior party leader   claimed at least three Congress leaders worked against party candidate   in Bijepur. Routray, though, refused to name anyone when asked. "Media knows it very well. Why should I give them importance by naming them," Routray said.
 
 Former Congress state president   said he has no idea about the number of leaders who worked against the party, but said chances of Sahu's victory is bleak. "It would be very difficult for the party to retain the seat due to lack of preparation, resources and proper campaigning," Patnaik added.
 
 Voicing concern, former Union minister Srikant Jena also said the party would have performed better had the candidate selection been done a month earlier. When contacted, state congress Prasad Harichandan did not respond. 
 
 The BJD and BJP, meanwhile, claimed victory in the byelection, polling for which was held on Saturday. Both the parties are confident that the vote would go in their favour. 
 
 "The hope and faith of people on the leadership of Naveen Patnaik would bring the BJD to power. Going by the response of people in the western Odisha constituency, we are confident our candidate (Rita Sahu) would win by a huge margin," former minister and BJD spokesperson Arun Sahoo said.
 
 The BJP, which had carried out an aggressive campaign to grab the seat by roping in half a dozen Union ministers and senior party leaders, also expressed confidence of the result going in its favour. Party general secretary Prithviraj Harichandan said there was a strong anti-incumbency against the ruling party and people have expressed their faith in Narendra Modi and that would help the BJP to win Bijepur.
 
 Elaborate arrangements are in place at Padampur, a sub-divisional headquarters, ahead of the counting of votes, scheduled to start at 8 am. 
 
 "Since polling was held in 281 booths, we expect around 21 round of counting to be held in the presence of the agents of the respective candidates. Results of each round will be announced before the media," said an polling official, adding a clear trend could be expected by noon. 
 
 The EVMs are stored in the strong room at a college in Padampur amid thick security cover. A company of CRPF has been deployed in the area for safe custody of the EVMs.
 
 
