THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In 1951, during the initial years of  , volunteers of the organization used to visit houses of community members to collect agriculture produce such as coconut, paddy, tapioca and vegetables and sell them in markets to raise fund for the organisation. The team of volunteers would sing a song, ‘Akhilandamandalam aniyichorukki /Athinullil ananda deepam koluthi’ while marching from house to house. The song that hails the omnipotent who is above all discriminations and reminds the listener about the ‘one caste, one religion’ message was written by   as directed by   leader   who wanted some inspiring lines as a theme song for the ‘Ulpanna pirivu’. The prayer song soon became popular, because of its rhythm and message, and was quickly adopted by the schools in the state as morning prayer.

 Another prayer song sung in state government schools ‘Chandameriya poovilum sabalabhamaam salabhathilum...’ was from the poem ‘Pushpavadi’ penned by poet N Kumaranasan. This short poem also focussed on the creator and expressed curiosity on his beautiful creations without attributing any colour to the creator.
 
 The practice of choosing the right song has saved the government and aided schools from criticism. Though there are no hard and fast rules or guidelines regarding the tone and tenor of the prayer song, most of the schools automatically picked up secular songs.
 
 ''We have not given any set of instructions regarding the selection or singing of prayer songs in schools. But, generally, school managements and authorities stick to secular ethos,'' said  , DPI.
 
 The state education departmen, for the past few years, has been promoting the singing of the national service scheme's theme song 'Manasu nannavatte Mathamethenkilum aavatte...' (Let the mind be good, whatever be the religion), a secular song. “We promote this NSS song for its high ideals and secular characteristics. There are other such good songs as well. There may be rare exceptions among aided schools run by minority institutions. But, the department is yet to receive any complaints with regard to the selection of prayer songs in any of the schools,'' the DPI said.
 
 
