Kolkata: If all goes well, India and Bangladesh will release a joint report on   population in the Sunderbans next year.

 The ‘All-India Tiger Estimation’ exercise that got underway in the Sunderbans on Monday, saw participation of four senior foresters from Bangladesh, who will train here and implement strategies under guidance of the Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) and technical assistance of WWF-India in the Bangladesh Sunderbans too.
 
 From installation of camera traps to collection of scat samples and ways to determine density of prey animals, the foresters from the neighbouring country on Monday took part in a training session under WII’s senior scientist Qamar Qureshi and also made a field survey at various locations of the Indian Sunderbans.
 
 Bengal chief wildlife warden R K Sinha said: “This will be a synchronised and landscape-specific exercise. Since wild animals don’t know boundaries, a decision has been taken to conduct the exercise on the entire landscape — in Indian and Bangladesh Sunderbans — during the same period. The idea is to avoid double counting of any species, particularly tiger.” Sunderbans Tiger Reserve field director Nilanjan Mullick said a joint report under the guidance of WII is likely to be released once the exercise is over.
 
 Not only Sunderbans, borders will blur for tiger count in north Bengal too. “In north Bengal, the exercise will be conducted simultaneously in the forests of Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar, along with tiger habitats in neighbouring state Assam and neighbouring country Bhutan. Forests in Kalimpong and Darjeeling divisions, including Neora Valley, will come under the exercise next time, four years later,” Sinha said, adding that while 340 pairs of camera traps will scan the Sunderbans, an additional 210 pairs will be placed in the forests in Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar.
 
 Analysis of scat samples and status of prey animals’ density will also feature in the final report. Sinha said while boat transect method will be used for prey base analysis in the Sunderbans, line transect will decode prey base status in other landscapes.
 
 While Bangladesh Sunderbans, spread over approximately 6,000 sq km, is now home to about 106 tigers, the Indian Sunderbans covering an area of almost 4,000 sq km now houses more than 90 tigers. At least unique 87 tiger images were captured in last year’s camera-trap exercise.
 
 
