BHUBANESWAR:   played like a well-oiled machine as they beat   2-0 in their   match at   here on Sunday.

 
 Miku and   scored one goal each in the first half itself as BFC cemented their spot at the top of the table with a game in hand. Jamshedpur FC, on the other hand, remain in the fourth spot with 26 points from 17 games. But with FC Goa winning their match earlier in the day, it may take the last match of the season to decide which other teams make it to the playoffs.
 
 The Albert Roca-coached side stuck to small passes and had the Jamshedpur FC defenders gasping for breath for most of the match.  , down the right flank, looked dangerous and had Miku converted all the chances he created, the scoreline would have looked embarrassing for Jamshedpur.
 
 They were unlike anything they have been so far. They were sloppy in defence and had no control over the midfiled. Strikers tried their best from the distance but Bengaluru FC goalkeeper   was always up to the task. Sadly, his counterpart   was nowhere near his best. Despite putting on stellar shows throughout the league, he was the one to blame for the opening goal. In the second half, he looked more composed but by then the damage had been done.
 
 FC Goa stay afloat
 
 FC Goa kept their playoff hopes alive after humiliating FC Pune City 4-0 in an Indian Super League game at the Balewadi stadium on Sunday. A brace from   top scorer Ferran Corominas and a goal apiece from Manuel Lanzarote and Hugo Boumous handed Pune their heaviest defeat of the season in which they also had skipper Marcelinho sent off.
 
 Pune remain in second place with 29 points from 17 games while Goa move up to sixth with 24 points from 16 games.
 
 Lanzarote had the first chance of the match in the eighth minute as he cut in from the right on his favoured left foot and tried to curl it in but the ball went straight into Pune keeper Vishal Kaith's arms.
 
 Pune left-back Sahil Panwar then headed the ball just wide from Marcelinho's chipped free-kick a couple of minutes later.
 
 Both sides struggled to find any fluency until the half hour mark when Pune's Adil Khan clattered into Boumous inside the 18-yard box and the referee pointed straight to the spot. Lanzarote sent Kaith the wrong way and put Goa 1-0 up.
 
 Marcelinho thought he had won a penalty for his side after going down inside the Goa 18-yard box but the referee wasn't interested and the Brazilian was booked for dissent.
 
