CHENNAI: The city police on Tuesday night started an investigation in a double murder, after residents of an apartment off Old Mahabalipuram Road, found an elderly couple, the owners of provision stores, beaten to death in a flat in the complex.

 Police are yet to confirm if it was a crime for gain, but investigators said the assailants appeared to have opened a cupboard and drawers and left the   flat strewn with clothes.
 
 Mayandi, 65, and Valliammal, 55, originally from  , lived in a flat on the third floor of the apartment complex, an investigating officer said.
 
 “The victims had severe injuries to the back of the head,” the officer said, adding that the wounds suggested that the assailants bludgeoned the elderly couple with a blunt object like a stick or the leg of a stool.
 
 The police are awaiting autopsy reports from Government   to confirm the cause of death, he said. “Neighbours discovered the bodies in the flat on Tuesday evening,” the officer said. “They found Valliammal’s body near the kitchen; her husband Mayandi’s body was in the hall.”
 
 Crime scene detectives searched the flat for clues and additional commissioner of police M C  , joint commissioner of police C Magheswari, Adyar deputy commissioner of police   inspected the spot. Investigators believe the victims were acquainted with their assailants.
 
 The police have asked family members to ascertain if valuables are missing from the flat. The elderly couple lived on income from the provision stores and rent from properties they owned.
 
 “The killers appear to have got in the flat after the couple’s son had lunch and left the house in the afternoon,” the officer said. “The victims lived in a third-floor flat with their son, who runs a provision store and a supermarket in Chennai. ”
 
 “The building has slots for car parking on the ground floor and the owners rented out the first and second floors to a women’s hostel,” he said. Investigators are going through security camera footage from the building and establishments nearby.
 
 “The hostel in the building had a security guard. We asked him to identify anyone he may have observed approach the couple’s flat.”
 
