BHUBANESWAR: The blame game over the alleged gang rape of a minor girl in Kunduli area of   district on October 10 last year and her subsequent suicide escalated on Sunday with Union minister   talking about a 'missing' suicide note. 

 Reiterating the BJP's demand for a CBI probe into the alleged rape and suicide, Dharmendra also sought  's resignation on moral grounds since the CM also holds the home portfolio under which the state police work.
 
 "The suicide note, written by the girl, could have helped crack the case. But instead of making it part of the investigation process, the police destroyed it... the suicide note could have nailed a number of influential people, those who had created a situation and forced her to end her life," Dharmendra said. The girl committed suicide on January 22. 
 
 Addressing a news conference at the BJP state headquarters here, Dharmendra questioned why Naveen never reviewed investigation into the Kunduli rape case, though he frequently reviews issues of lesser importance, including those related to infightings in his own party. 
 
 The Union minister said the girl had also complained about being offered money by a senior police officer to hush up the case. The government could have lodged a probe into the allegation on the basis of an audio tape, the minister claimed, as he played out the audio. 
 
 In the tape the girl alleged she was offered Rs 90,000 by a senior cop to keep her mouth shut. Justifying his demand for a CBI probe, Dharmendra said the judicial commission of inquiry is an eyewash. 
 
 The fate of judicial probes in the past, like the killing of Swami Laxmanand Saraswati in 2008 and the death of 13 people at Kalinganagar in Jajpur district in the 2006 police firing are yet to reach their logical conclusions, the minister pointed out.
 
  Reminding how Anjana Mishra rape case in 1999 became a major factor behind the debacle of the J B Patnaik-led Congress government, Dharmendra said a similar fate awaits the Naveen government for trying to cover up the Kunduli rape and suicide.
 
 Countering the allegations,   spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP Pratap Keshari Deb said the BJP is desperate to gain political mileage out of the alleged rape and suicide ahead of the Bijepur byelection on February 24.
 
 Addressing a press conference at the BJD headquarters here, Pratap said the state government has been doing its duty with due diligence. The chief minister ordered a judicial inquiry after questions were raised regarding the Crime Branch probe, he said. "There is no question of covering up the crime or protecting anybody. Truth will come out in the judicial probe," Pratap added.
 
 The MP said if Dharmendra has no faith in the judicial probe, he could ask the central government for an interdepartmental inquiry into the crime. On the demand for a CBI probe, Deb said the agency could not make any headway in the 2013 murder of Itishree Pradhan, a teacher.
 
 Reacting to Dharmendra's comparison of the Kunduli incident with Anjana rape case, the BJD spokesperson said there is no parallel between the two. "Unlike the Anjana case, there is no suspicion regarding the involvement of any politician or state government employee in the alleged rape," Pratap said.
 
 EoM
 
 
