Tirunelveli: From students of the special school opposite the Palayamkottai Central Prison to government officials and other working persons, a long line of customers are set to say teerful goodbye to the operators of the Freedom Bazaar on the prison premises.

 Overjoyed, though, that the   would be stepping out of jail once and for all, they would be deeply missing the 13 inmates who they met every day to have breakfast, lunch or a cup of tea. “We will miss them very much,” said A Muthukrishnan, a daily customer of the bazaar.
 
 “I have had my breakfast every day for over two years here. The bazaar had been closed for a few months but I came back soon after it was reopened,” he said. Ever since their customers learnt of the news, many have congratulated them, wishing good luck for their release and for rest of their life outside.
 
 Hundreds of similar customers will miss these inmates who keep juice bars, lassi shops, tea shops, eateries, saloon and ironing centre. Interestingly, inmates are consoling their loyal customers that there are good inmates like them in the prison who will continue serving them.
 
 In the initial days, the bazaar drew in a good number of people as the prisoners sold eateries at the cheap and helped customers save money. Later on, they started became everyday customers thanks to the praiseworthy service they received from the inmates running the bazaar. They visited so often that the prisoners each one’s preference. “We did not need to order anything, they know what we want,” said Muthukrishnan.
 
 A prison official said that they are in the process of identifying good conduct inmates who can be deployed at the Freedom Bazaar. Though there are no hard and fast rules to identify them, prison authorities said that the inmates should have at least gone on leave with a police escort on five occasions.
 
 “We have been able to maintain a good image over the years. So on identifying them we will train them in handling customers before allowing them to man the bazaar,” he added. Release of more than 300 inmates will also affect agriculture and other activities and works inside the prison.
 
 
