NAGPUR: Three days after five wild dogs died of suspected poisoning inside   Tiger Reserve (PTR), two more dogs succumbed in Salama round on Sunday and Monday.

 On March 30, two male, two female and a pup died in Central Bodalzira and West Chikhalakari in core area of East Pench range of PTR. The site is about 12km from human habitations.
 
 According to Pench field director Ravikiran Govekar, wildlife veterinarians Dr BM Kadu and Dr   tried to administer necessary medications and supplements through chicken feed to rest of the dogs in the pack. There were 13 dogs in the pack.
 
 One female dog died on Sunday and another on Monday. Remaining six wild dogs are still seen in the area with sluggish movement. They are being monitored and necessary interventions are being taken up as per the veterinary advice.
 
 “We have combed the entire area for any suspicious activity. A langur kill has also been found nearby. Samples have been collected for toxicological and histopathological tests and are being sent to Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) in Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Experts from other institutes like   (WII), Dehradun, will also be consulted,” said Govekar.
 
 Other dogs in the pack are being monitored. Dr  , head of the department (HoD) of pathology at Nagpur Veterinary College, has also been requested to assist the forest department in post-mortem and identification of possible causes.
 
 “Though chances of human interference are less, we are investigating all possible angles. Confirmation of reasons for death will give a proper direction to the investigation,” said Govekar.
 
 Post-mortem was conducted by Dr Kadu and Dr Patond in presence of Pench range forest officer (RFO) Atul Deokar and assistant conservator (ACF) Geeta Nannavare.
 
 Vets say preliminary observations indicate possibility of poisoning. Chances of viral or bacterial diseases will be confirmed after the laboratory test reports.
 
 “Suitable measures are being taken considering all the eventualities including poisoning or disease,” they said.
 
 
