TRICHY: Bharathidasan University (BDU) has finally decided to accept the PhD thesis of a research scholar from   (BHC), Trichy, which was rejected two years ago. A full-time research scholar,   was allegedly employed during his research period in violation of the norm.

 However, treating it as a special case, vice-chancellor P   said that the university would accept his research thesis. The relief comes after a two-year-long struggle by the scholar whose thesis, despite being supported by his college and guide, was rejected by the university citing norms.
 
 Based on an anonymous letter, the then registrar in-charge of BDU,   had refused to accept Pavendan’s research thesis. He also instructed the college to conduct a probe into the alleged employment of the research scholar in the botany department in 2016.
 
 After the probe, BHC wrote to the university to accept Pavendan’s PhD thesis as he was not employed during the working hours of the college. “We were shocked by the claims of the college as we got evidence of Pavendan being employed in a company which was into dairy industry,” said Babu Rajendran adding that the college authorities were summoned and Pavendan’s guide debarred for two years. 
 
 “Considering his future, we had imposed only a fine of Rs 5,000 and offered to enroll him as a part-time researcher. But he has been accusing me of wrongdoing,” said Babu Rajendran.
 
 Saying that he was never offered an opportunity to put across his side on the issue, Pavendan said that “there is no evidence that I worked during college hours. I was punished and I had to wait for two years.”
 
 Speaking to TOI over phone, vice-chancellor P Manisankar said that the matter was brought into his notice. Treating it as a special case, he had cancelled the penalty imposed on Pavendan.
 
  Further, a communication had also been sent from the university informing him that his research thesis would be accepted. “We do not want any of our students to suffer which is the sole reason for giving relief to Pavendan ,” he said.
 
 
