KOLHAPUR: Over 250 illegal connections have been snapped in the past one week by the   Municipal Corporation ( ) and it was found that most of it was reported in slum areas and some were found in commercial establishments. 

 The civic body is carrying out the task to locate and snap illegal connections with an aim to stop   theft and ensure that localities get adequate amount of water. The KMC is losing around 30% of revenue every year owing to the illegal connections through which huge amount of water is drawn either for household or commercial purposes.
 
 The civic officials have decided to get the commercial establishments with illegal connections booked. However, the final decision is yet to be taken at the top level.
 
 Prashant Pandat, water tax superintendent, said, "We have observed that in some slum areas none of the connections are legal. Way back in 2008 we had removed all the public water taps. However, at many places, for instance in Lonar Vasahat, we have found that some of the public taps have been started again by the locals and connections. We had asked them to get metered water connection, but many have not heeded to our demand and are getting water through illegal connections. We think the mindset should be changed as we provide water at the cheapest rate."
 
 The KMC's report states that out of 140 million litre of water lifted from   river, around 45 million litre is lost and with it the equivalent amount of revenue as well.
 
 The major reasons for the water losses lie in distribution and transmission. In case of distribution, leakages occurring on old pipelines are the major cause of worry. Hence, to plug major leakages, the KMC has drafted an estimate for funds. Once the funding is approved, the work to plug these leakages will begin.
 
 During the illegal connection drive, the five teams deployed by the civic body found that some lodges, marriage halls and hotels are drawing huge amount of water through illegal connections. The officials claim that the operators of these establishments laid separate connections underground.
 
 "It is hard to detect illegal connections in commercial establishments. Though there are few such instances reported, these establishments require more water than a normal household and therefore it is a cause for worry. We have decided to book the operators of such commercial establishments and impose heavy fines on them," Pandat said. 
 
 
