IN CAPE TOWN Winds of change are blowing over   and the developments could potentially have an impact on Indian cricket. Three top officials, including  , who was heading the Indian Premier League's (IPL) marketing campaign in the initial years, have stepped down in the global office in LA. What next, as much as who next, is the big question of interest now.

 
 Andy Kaplan, who used to be the president of  , is the other big fish to leave along with Man Jit. NP Singh, the current CEO of   Network India (SPNI), was reporting to him. Sheraton Kalouria, Sony Pictures Television's (SPT) chief marketing officer, has also exited. A certain Mike Hopkins, the former CEO of Hulu, a video on demand network in the US, is the new Sony boss.
 
 
 
 Man Jit was previously the CEO of Sony Network in India before he moved to LA. At the time of exiting, he was the president Sony's Home Entertainment wing. But more pertinently, he used to have a say in Sony's functioning in India. He was one of the global officials to meet   (BCCI) representatives in London in June 2017 to discuss the IPL rights.
 
 At the time, Sony wanted discussions on their first right of refusal clause. Man Jit was the creator of the IPL campaign which had the famous tagline Manoranjan ka Baap.
 
 There are different versions to the changes with one section in India thinking that the developments will have no impact on the India operations while the other view being that the changes are bound to happen as Kaplan and Man Jit were closely linked to the India operations.
 
 The BCCI is expected to come up with the RFP (tender notification) for the India rights in a couple of weeks and Sony, having lost the IPL rights to Star, was expected to bid vigorously for the property.
 
 The Sony developments come less than two months after changes in other big sports network in India - Star. The broadcaster was merged with Disney. The worth of India rights is expected to be over Rs 4-5k crores for four years.
 
 Meanwhile, it is increasingly getting clear that there may not be too many bidders for the BCCI Production rights. The eligibility criteria is such that there can't be too many aspirants.
 
 The BCCI said the production firms which have produced multiteam and multi-city cricket leagues in India in the last three years will be eligible. The clause leaves only three potential qualifiers - IMG UK, Star and Sunset + Vine.
 
 IMG has been producing the IPL for the last 10 years and Star produced the   in the last two years.
 
 Sunset + Vine, having produced the World Twenty20 in 2016, also qualifies. But there are doubts over the London-based firm's interest because it is needed to produce 110 days of domestic India cricket besides the IPL. Its presence in India is minimum and it does not even have an office.
 
 
