PATNA: The state government would spend Rs25,000 crore on   activities during the next fiscal as part of the five-year third agriculture road map prepared last year, agriculture minister   announced in the assembly on Wednesday. The money would be spent by the 12 departments concerned.

 The minister also announced a high-level committee to look into the complaints regarding the supply of fake maize seeds resulting in failed crop in different districts this year. “The government will take action against those involved in the supply of fake maize seeds,” he said, adding steps have been taken to give more institutional support to farmers for improved agriculture practices in the state.
 
 Prem said four college-level institutes would be opened with bearing on education in agriculture, community science/food technology, agriculture trade management and organic farming technology. The colleges would function under Bihar Agriculture University (BAU).
 
 Agriculture Engineering College and Community Science/Food Technology College would be opened at Gaya, Agriculture Trade Management College at Patna and   at Ara. Besides, scholarships would be given to students at postgraduate level to promote research and innovations in agriculture education, so as to create a trained pool of human resources in the sector, he added.
 
 The minister was giving the government’s reply to the House debate on the budgetary demand of Rs2,742.77 crore of the agriculture department for the 2018-19 fiscal. Although RJD member   initiated the debate with his cut motion, the opposition comprising the RJD, Congress and the CPI(ML) walked out in the middle of the minister’s reply. The House passed the budget.
 
 Prem said agriculture offices would be opened in all the 8,463 panchayats to make big outreach to the farmers, as local agriculture coordinators and kisan salahkars (farmer’s advisers) would sit there regularly to advise the farmers in agriculture practices. The telemetric weather station to be opened at every block headquarters would give timely information on weather, rain conditions and moisture content to farmers.
 
 Besides, the process to form farmer producer organization (FPO) in every block would be completed by March this year. It would followed by the formation of FPOs at panchayat level in the next phase to give farmers easy access to the market and desired returns on their produce. The government has also decided to construct boundaries around its 54 bazaar samitis and new steps were being taken for their revival after disbanding them in 2006.
 
 
