Nag Ashwin’s upcoming   ‘Mahanati’ starring   as   and   as Gemini Ganeshan, apart from  ,   and several other prominent actors is a film much-awaited.

  The team of the film is said to have done extensive research for the minutest details, to get the life of the yesteryear actress perfectly right. So of course, it is also no surprise that the team that worked to get Savitri’s costumes right, also worked extensively on her jewellery. 15 
 are said to have worked on these exclusive pieces for a span of 8 months after conducting 6 months of research by paying close attention to her films like ‘Maya Bazaar’, ‘Devadas’, ‘Pelli Chesi Choodu’, ‘Missamma’ and more. 
 
  The filmmakers reveal that the biggest challenge however was to recreate the 
 and 
 necklace with rubies and the 
 which are more than 60 years old. When the teaser of the film was recently released, Keerthy Suresh looking authentic in her role, not just due to her acting skills, but also due to her costumes and jewellery, was a fact that hadn’t gone unnoticed. Keerthy Suresh’s ornaments in the film made of gold, 
 and diamonds will be ones to watch out for. 
 
  Jewellery designer   Sangli worked with a team of jewellers from Hyderabad by watching her films closely to notice the kind of ornaments she wore and later went on to sketch these ornaments. “A team of five hand artisans worked meticulously to reinvent these classics. Gold, 
 and diamond jewellery was recreated in the same old designs she used to wear and were finished with the antique look. Close to 15 
 worked to customise and recreate these pieces exclusively for 8 months after almost 6 months of study and research and probing into the actress’s life story,” revealed Naveen.
 
  Some of the antique jewellery was however customised to meet director Nag Ashwin’s expectations and his vision for Keerthy Suresh as Savitri, the filmmakers reveal. The jewellery collection featured in the movie will include necklaces, 
 , traditional earrings, 
 , bangles, 
 , 
 , rings and even watches! 
 
  Director   revealed that it took the jewellery designer Naveen many days to delve into her past, talk to her family and know about her sensibilities before working on these ornaments. “We used a lot of old methods like gold wire wrapping and dainty stone setting methods to achieve a look as vintage as possible. Matching a few pieces with the sarees designed by designer   was another major challenge. All his 
 are such antique weaves with vintage dyes, that giving matching jewellery to these was quite a task. Each studded piece has been a piece of art, blending with the era, the actress, the costumes and the imagination of the director,” said Naveen.
 
  But above all, the filmmakers and director Nag Ashwin believe that ‘every piece of jewellery recreated is nothing less than a tribute to the screen goddess Savitri’. The film is slated for worldwide release on May 9. 
 
