TRICHY: As the police have successfully retrieved the antique statues of king   and his queen Lokamadevi from the Calico museum in Ahamedabad, Gujarat, on Tuesday, the CID idol wing will now shift its focus on retrieving 11 more antique statues missing from the big temple in Thanjavur.

 Deputy superintendent of police S Venkataraman, CID - idol wing, in his complaint to the Thanjavur police on March 2, listed out more statues which were stolen from the   temple several years back. 
 
 The statues of   and Shethira Balar - both made of gold weighing several hundred sovereigns, four idols of   made of silver and an idol of Ardhanareeswarar made of Panchaloha were some of the few main idols stolen, according to the idol wing. 
 
 The complaint stated that none of the four Panchaloha idols donated by Kundhavai was found at the temple during investigation apart from two idols of  , statues of Vanavanmahadevi and Pon Maaligai Thunjinathevar.
 
 The idol wing were able to unearth the thefts based on evidence collected from books on antiques, annual reports on south Indian epigraphy and stone inscriptions found below the Mandapam at the north west of the big temple. 
 
 A source said that the idol wing deliberately put on hold investigation into the 11 missing idols in March to focus on retrieving the idols of Rajarajacholan and Lokamadevi. 
 
 “If the wing had started probe into the other missing idols, efforts to bringing back the two main idols would have been diluted. Hence, the matter was kept under wraps. Now the probe will commence into the theft the other idols,” said a source privy to the development on Wednesday. 
 
 In fact, the preliminary enquiry by the CID idol wing also revealed deliberate attempts by temple officials to replace the statue of Rajarajacholan with the statue of his son king Rajendracholan at the big temple. The name board had the mention of Rajarajacholan “The inscriptions on the idol clearly reveals it is Peria Koil Rasa Rasendra Chola Rasa. It created a strong suspicion and the investigation was intensified leading to the recovery of the two statues,” said an officer. 
 
 It is yet to be decided whether the retrieved idol of Rajarajacholan will be placed in the same place.
 
 
