TRICHY: Some of the students of   department of   (BDU) will have a job on their hands even before their final semester examinations. The lucky few are among the 62 candidates from marine sciences and related disciplines across various state universities who attended campus placements at the university on Thursday. 

 Unlike other conventional courses, marine sciences used to offer limited job opportunities even after post-graduation. However, things have been changing in recent times. Being an emerging discipline, there are specific job openings in companies dealing with marine resources. C. P. Aquaculture India, a Thailand-based multinational company which is into shrimp and fish feed manufacturing, shrimp hatcheries, shrimp farms and shrimp processing in various location in India, held a campus drive at BDU on Thursday. The company has been hiring fresh candidates for close to 200 vacancies in its hatcheries, feed mills and processing plants. 
 
 Though he has plans to undertake PhD after MSc Marine Sciences in BDU,  , who is awaiting final semester results, has made up his mind to take up the job if selected as he is confident of a positive result. “What better than getting a job in the same field in which I have plans to do research,” says Anto as he could complete his PhD part time. “But the kind of exposure that I would get in the job would be unmatched,” he said. 
 
 Similarly, S Dhivakar, who opted for MSc marine sciences in BDU after his under graduation in  , says that post-graduation in BDU had been a better experience for its equipped laboratory and expertise. Taking up the job would be an ideal decision if selected, says Dhivakar.
 
 “This is the fourth straight year that C. P. Aquaculture India is hiring freshers and they have been offering a maximum of Rs 21,000 as monthly salary (excludes accommodation and other benefits) which isn’t less if one goes by the market standards,” says P  , who heads the marine science department in BDU. 
 
 Saying that 62 candidates from across the state had attended the interview for over 200 vacancies, he said that marine science had immense prospects considering the fact that a lot of potential resources in the ocean remained untapped and people had in recent times started looking up to the vast oceans.
 
 
