When 21-year-old Baebhen Schuttke received a bouquet from chief minister   on Saturday, liver transplant surgeon   was beaming. The Irish woman was just five days old in 1997 when Dr Rela wheeled her into a London hospital operation room for a liver transplant.

 “The news about the transplant was all over the newspapers because she was one of the youngest patients. Today, I know the success of the surgery is that she is still alive and healthy,” he said as   posed for selfies with young surgeons and paramedics at an international medical conference organised by   in the city.
 
 Dr Rela, a surgeon at London’s King’s College Hospital in 1997, admitted that if Schuttke were to be wheeled into his emergency room today, he would have given her medication to stop her genetic disease from harming the liver. “Back then we did not have these drugs. There was no other choice to keep her alive,” he said. Schuttke’s parents had already lost two children to the disease and were desperate to save her.
 
 In November 2017, Schuttke met Dr Rela in London after several years. “I walked through King’s Hospital and met some nurses who treated me. It was such a great feeling. I decided to come to India so I can share my success story. I hope it encourages more parents,” she said.
 
 Many things have changed since then. At Saturday’s conference, for instance, doctors were discussing ways to minimise transplants – use gene therapy, cells or stem cells instead for different kinds of liver failure. “Not all liver transplants are avoidable. But sometimes we use a donor liver only to support the patients’ own liver. When the patient’s liver recovers, we stop immune suppression drugs and the donor liver shrinks or is taken out. We are now experimenting on animals to see how we can reduce the size of the donor livers in transplant...,” said Dr Rela.
 
 Schuttke, who visited cities like Agra and Jaipur with her mom and sister and loved the spirit there, said, “Now, I don’t want to go back.” She will fly back on Monday.
 
