At a time when   are seeing more dropouts than admissions, a   in   is working towards bolstering the thinning strength of his alma mater — a 75-year-old government school in Udumalpet. Meet V   of Malayandipattinam, who has started the campaign Thiruvalluvar Kalvi Iyakkam (Thiruvalluvar education movement) to mobilise locals to renovate the   in Malayandipattinam and sensitise parents to send their children to government schools instead of private ones. 

 To set an example for locals, Neelamegan, 38, withdrew his son from a private school and admitted him to the government school two years ago. 
 
 "  today are more like factories which suck money out of people. They do not allow children to develop self-thinking due to which they end up knowing nothing about the real world. I realised it late, but once I did, I withdrew my son from the private school he was studying in and enrolled him in the elementary school, where my father and I had studied," he says.
 
 Neelamegan says the environment in a government school helps a child imbibe values and understand the small joys of life. "Be it sharing a chocolate among schoolmates or the dedication and concern of teachers towards students, we learned these lessons at the elementary school." 
 
 Neelamegan, however, could study up to Class VIII due to acute poverty. His own failure to complete studies, in a way inspires him create awareness among parents to send their wards to school. 
 
 At present, his focus is on restoring the lost glory of his old school. The student strength of the elementary school which was around 200 in the 1980s has today nosedived to a mere 45. The school does not have basic amenities like purified drinking water, benches and sports equipment. It is currently run by a headmaster in-charge and two teachers who shuttle between classes I and V. 
 
 "As part of Thiruvalluvar Kalvi Iyakkam, we have been telling villagers not to send their wards to private schools within a three-kilometre radius. It is difficult for middle class families to save money to send their children to school. Many end up borrowing money and the debts keep growing. We instead request them to admit their children to the government school and tell them that we could improve its facilities with public contribution." 
 
 Neelamegan and other locals have approached business establishments for help. "One of the traders in the village has donated money to upgrade our village library and I am sure more will offer help for the school," he says.
 
 Two of Neelamegan’s friends have enrolled their children in the government school in the past two years. Neelamegan on Wednesday will take out a rally and conduct a door-to-door campaign on the issue.
 
 
