Coimbatore: The BJP government is using governors to gain power in states where it couldn’t win elections, Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy said here on Saturday.

 Puducherry had been performing well in administration, education tourism, social welfare and law and order in spite of the roadblocks laid by lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi, Narayanasamy, who was in the city to participate in the Indian Business Congress, said. “Kiran Bedi has not done anything so far for the growth of the union territory,” he said. “But, along with the funds from Prime Minister’s housing scheme, the Union territory government has been giving an additional fund of Rs 1 lakh to the beneficiaries. Also we have facilitated them bank loans worth Rs 4 lakh with minimum interest rate,” he said.
 
 The BJP government had not recalled Bedi despite the Union territory demanding it several times, he said.
 
 Speaking about the increasing petrol and diesel prices, Narayanasamy said Prime Minister Narendra Modi is on a path of self-destruction. “When Congress was ruling at the Centre, while price for a barrel of crude oil was $140, a litre of petrol cost Rs 65 and diesel Rs 55. But, today, when a barrel of crude costs only $65, petrol price has gone up to Rs 77 and diesel Rs 68,” he said. People are agitated by communal and ethnic clashes happening in the BJP rule, he said.
 
 Slamming the Centre for not setting up Cauvery Management Board, Narayanasamy said the Centre has been overlooking the interest of the people of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry by not setting up the board. “Though there is a Congress government in Karnataka, we had been speaking against them as they have been opposing the setting up of the board. We have been doing this for the welfare of farmers in Karaikal. But the Centre has been cheating the people of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry,” he said.
 
 Narayanasamy said the outcome of Karnataka election would expose the double standards of Modi. “BJP had said it would abolish corruption, but the party has announced BS Yeddyurappa, who was jailed in a scam case, as its chief minister candidate,” he said.
 
 
