NEW DELHI: Call it a fear psychosis towards  , or pure economics. But the share of diesel in hatchbacks and sedans has fallen to under a quarter, which means that more than three cars out of every four sold are now run on petrol. The narrowing gap between petrol and diesel fuel prices has been one of the critical factors behind the trend, which should sound like music to environmentalists and green lobbies.

 The numbers are even more encouraging as the trend comes at a time when pollution figures have been at alarming levels across many Indian cities and there have been calls for controlling vehicular emissions, especially from diesel ones.
 
 According to numbers accessed by TOI, the share of diesel in car sales (hatchbacks and sedans, excluding SUVs) has fallen to 23%, coming down from a high of nearly 50% in 2012-13. The trend is only going to get stronger, say company executives who are now preparing for a life beyond diesel as the government pushes for cleaner technologies where the current focus is on electric drivetrains.
 
 The only challenge to the trend, however, remains the rising share of SUVs in the country. Diesel is traditionally the preferred choice in SUVs, though the mindset towards petrol is also finding some strength here. Take for example the Creta SUV where more than 30% of sales are coming from petrol version.
 
 The trend has been stark for some of the companies when it comes to small cars and sedans. For example,   Cars India has seen the share of diesel in overall sales shrink from 67% in 2013-14 to just a quarter at the end of 2016-17. Honda City sedan, which used to see 60% of sales coming from diesel in 2014, now gets only 20% of its volumes from the fuel.
 
 The same is the case for some of the models of Maruti  , the country’s largest carmaker. For example, diesel variant now accounts for 30% of sales of the Ciaz sedan against 60% just some time back. However, diesel still remains strong for the company as some of its models such as Brezza mini SUV do not have a petrol variant.
 
 Maruti chairman   says that the trend is only going to get stronger, at least in the passenger cars segment. “I don’t see a big play (for diesel). The market does not like diesel. I expect its share to come down.”
 
 Diesel cars, while giving higher fuel efficiency, are also expensive to maintain when compared to petrol versions. The higher maintenance comes at the top of an already expensive acquisition cost — diesel variants are priced higher than their petrol versions, by at least Rs 1lakh.
 
 With the difference between petrol and diesel fuel narrowing down, many people now prefer to opt for petrol versions. Against a gap of Rs 27 around the middle of 2012, the difference in the retail price of petrol and diesel fuel has narrowed down to only Rs 10 now. “Diesel is losing ground now, and the shift is quite pronounced,” says Rakesh Srivastava, director (sales & marketing) at  .
 
  
  
 
