MAPUSA: Led by   MLA and urban development minister Francis D’Souza, friends and wellwishers of chief minister   on Wednesday organised a Mahamrityunjaya jaap for his quick recovery.

 Revered as one of the oldest mantras, the Mahamrityunjaya jaap is a verse from the Rig Veda and addresses the ‘rudra’ avatar of Lord Shiva. The word is a unification of three words, ‘maha’ meaning great, ‘mrityun’ meaning death and ‘jaya’ meaning victory. Taken together, it translates to the ‘one who gained victory over death’. Hindus believe that chanting the mantra helps rid one of ailments.
 
 The ritual, which went on from 8am to 12.30pm, was performed by priests at the Ganeshpuri temple, Mapusa.
 
 D’Souza said it was Parrikar who spearheaded the construction of the Ganeshpuri temple, and that the construction had raised a controversy that had even reached the Supreme Court.
 
 “We all have strong faith and belief in God and are sure Parrikar will get well soon and return to Goa. The news from Mumbai says his health is improving. We are praying daily,” D’Souza, who has been appointed   legislature wing chief, said.
 
 Sources said that in the evening, Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) chairperson Rohan Kavlekar, councillors Sandip Falari, Rajsingh Rane, Tushar Tople, Franky Carvalho and   offered bananas and prayers to Lord Bodgeshwar, who is considered to be the guardian of the arterial North Goa town.
 
 Meanwhile, revenue minister   requested his wellwishers to cancel his birthday celebrations and instead asked them to join him in praying for the CM’s health at Pundalik temple, Porvorim, on Friday, at 5pm where a mahamrutyanjaya jaap has been organised. In his appeal, Khaunte also said recitation of verses from the Quran and Duwa would be held at the Sunni Gausiya Masjid, Porvorim, at 2pm on Friday. There will also be prayers at Our Lady of Socorro Church, Our Lady of Salvation Church at   do Mundo, Our Lady of Penha de Franca Church, and Holy Family Church at   on Sunday, at 7am.
 
 A mass will be offered by the CM’s wellwishers from Mala for his recovery and good health at the Immaculate Conception Church, Panaji, at 11am on Saturday.
 
 
