PUNE: When Swapna Dey opened a parcel rerouted from her old address on March 28, she was in for a  . 

 In the parcel was the Wanowrie-based businesswoman’s  , which, along with other valuables and an expensive purse, was stolen from her car on March 17.
 
 The thief, yet to be identified, kept with him the branded purse and Rs1,500 in cash. Dey expressed gratitude for his “honesty” in giving her licence back to her, which saved her a lot of time in applying for and getting a duplicate licence.
  
  
 “I am so happy because I got my driving licence back,” was Dey’s reaction when TOI contacted her. 
 
 Every day, Dey would close her boutique on MG Road, Camp, and go to the Race Course for her evening walk. “I used to go there on my scooter, but, recently my younger son gifted me a sports utility vehicle (SUV). So I began to use it instead,” Dey said.
 
 On March 17, as on every other day, Dey shut shop and went to the Race Course, where she parked the SUV. “I had kept my purse on the back seat. Normally, I do not take my cellphone with me on the walk, but that day I took it with me as I wanted to talk to my husband and son,” Dey said.
 
 A brisk, 25-minute walk later, Dey returned to her car and was shocked after finding the rear window glass of the SUV broken and her purse missing. “Luck was on my side on that day, because I had kept my iPad on the back seat next to my purse. But, the thief did not notice it as its cover blended into the seat covers,” Dey said.
 
 She called her son and went to the Wanowrie police station to lodge a complaint. “My purse contained about Rs1,500 in cash, my driving licence and some other valuables. My branded purse was more important to me as it was a gift from my elder son,” she said.
 
 Since then, Dey said, she had been asking her son to help her get a duplicate driving licence. “I do not know how to apply online and needed my son’s help. But, he was busy in his office as the quarter was ending, and promised to help me apply on April 1,” Dey said.
 
 
 
 
 On Thursday, Dey’s previous neighbour came to her and handed over a parcel. “When I opened it, I found my licence in it. I was so happy that I did not have words to express my happiness. I first called my son and told him that the thief sent my licence back,” Dey said.
 
 
