BHOPAL: Computer Baba may have dropped his ' ' campaign against the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government after getting minister-of-state (MoS) status, but his complaint to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the alleged scam is still progressing. 

 The MP government, under fire for its controversial decision to grant MoS status to Computer Baba and four other godmen, may find it tough to get out of this one. 
 
 Referring to a communication from the PMO, the ministry of environment, climate and forest change has asked the MP government to submit an action taken report on Baba's complaint (PMOPG/D/2018/0079156, February 26, 2018), alleging scam in the Narmada conservation programme. 
 
  "... said grievance may be perused for appropriate action as deemed fit and action taken report in the matter may be communicated directly to the application under intimation to this ministry," reads the letter sent by deputy secretary (S) Ashok Kumar to MP principal secretary, environment, Anupam Rajan. It's also marked to Computer Baba, Shant Darshan Sant Samiti. TOI has a copy of it. 
 
 Rajan told TOI on Sunday that he wasn't aware of any such communication. Officials of the forest department, which handled the plantation, refused to comment and Computer Baba couldn't be contacted as his phone was switched off.
 
  Computer Baba aka   was a strident critic of the government-backed Narmada Sewa Yatra and the "record" plantation of six crore saplings last year and had vowed to "unearth the scam". Along with  , a former Congress corporator, he planned to launch his 'Ghotala' campaign on April 1, but on March 31, the state government set up a committee for conservation of the river and included Computer Baba, Mahant and three other sadhus as members with MoS status. 
 
 Within 24 hours of the state government decision, Computer Baba and Pandit Yogendra Mahant announced cancellation of their 'Ghotala' campaign. 
 
 There are many theories as to why Namdeo Das Tyagi got the name Computer Baba. One is his obsession with gadgets and other, as his followers say, is that "his brain quicker than a computer". Originally from Indore, he shot into limelight when he sought permission from the government to land his helicopter on the ghats during Kumbh Mela and take a dip in the Ganges. He was an AAP ticket aspirant in 2014 but failed to get one.
 
 
