THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As the island nation slipped into a political crisis and a state of Emergency, the authorities at the consulate of Maldives are trying to allay concerns of over 2,000 Maldivians who have arrived in the capital for various reasons. At the consulate, they are closely tracking all the developments. Maldivians visit   capital mainly for medical treatment. A few of them had enrolled their wards in city schools and stay here as dependents. 

 "The President has assured all freedom of movement and there shall be no restrictions whatsoever. The tourists are safe and so far no restrictions have been placed on travel," said Jaadhulla Hussain  , deputy consul and consul in charge. "We can assure everyone that the airport is safe and resorts are functioning as usual. Anybody going as tourist will not have any problem in Maldives," said Thaufeg.
 
 He said that although there have been queries regarding dependent visa, the problem has existed even before Emergency. "Many parents who are here on dependent visa come to us asking about restrictions, but we haven't got any official information on that. Besides, this issue has emerged even before the recent developments," said Thaufeg who expressed hope that everything will get settled in Maldives soon.
 
 The Maldivians who reside in tourist homes and lodges at Kumarapuram said that they did not wish to talk about the Emergency in their country. Many people whom TOI approached either evaded the questions or said that they were not interested to talk about it.
 
 Vikraman, who runs a Maldivian   at Kumarapuram, said that there has been a dip in the number of customers. "In the past three days, fewer customers have come here. Many people might have returned home owing to present developments, but we are not sure as they seldom talk about it," said   who had been employed in Maldives for three years.
 
 Meanwhile, the crisis in Maldives has not affected tourism prospects. Tour operators said that they have not received any calls for cancellations. "We undertake tour packages to Maldives mostly in April, December and January. As of now our bookings have come mostly from Maldivians who are here as part of medical tourism," said  , sales manager, Safiya Travels, Vellayambalam. Annamma, manager of Aries Tours & Travels, said that any kind of adverse developments in Maldives will not reflect on tourism since the season was over.
 
 
