TARN TARAN: As many as five people were injured after a group of over 30 armed people stormed   in Manochahal village in   district to wrest control of its management on Tuesday.

 As the news of the attack spread, the Tarn Taran police rushed a large contingent of police to restore order and nab the assailants.
 
 After hours of negotiation and hectic deliberations, the police made the attackers surrender. They later arrested as many as 25 people, including women, and their leader Ranjodh Singh. Police also recovered arms from their possession. According to sources, as many as 300 rounds were fired by the attackers.
 
 The injured have been admitted to different hospitals in Tarn Taran.
 
 Superintendent of police (investigations)   told TOI that Ranjodh’s father was the caretaker of the gurdwara but had died a few years ago. Ranjodh was young but was allegedly involved in a murder case and was sentenced to 10 years imprisonment. Meanwhile, local villagers had constituted a committee to look after the management of the gurdwara.
 
 Upon Ranjodh’s release from jail, he approached the village gurdwara committee to take control of the management, which was refused.
 
 The committee and Ranjodh entered into an agreement under which the committee would continue to manage the gurdwara while Ranjodh was given about eight acres of adjoining gurdwara land.
 
 “However, Ranjodh had his eyes on the gurdwara golak (coffer) and wanted to wrest the control of the management. On Tuesday, he intentionally reached gurdwara to take its control by force,” said Tilak Raj, adding that the police had arrested around 25 people, including Ranjodh and a few women.
 
 President of the gurdwara   said Ranjodh and others had entered the gurdwara early morning and attacked the granthis. Sources said a few villagers had also retaliated and opened fire upon assailants but the same was not confirmed by the police.
 
 Those injured include Prahlad Singh, Bhupinder Singh, Dilbagh Singh, Baljinder Singh and Darshan Singh. The SP (investigations) said a case had been registered.
 
 
