Panaji: The rare astronomical phenomenon of the ‘snow blue super rising copper total lunar eclipse’ will occur on the night of January 31. Though it sounds like a mouthful, in this visual spectacle, the world will witness the result of more than one coinciding lunar events. On this night, a total lunar eclipse will occur on a full moon night, but the moon will also feature as a super moon, a blue moon, a blood moon and a copper moon. The moon will be located on the opposite side of the earth as the sun and its face will be fully illuminated. Traditionally every full moon has a unique name and the second full moon of the year is called the snow moon. However this year, the second full moon has occurred in January itself instead of February, thus making it a snow moon. Then comes the phenomenon of blue moon—when there are two full moons occurring in a single month of the Gregorian calendar. During a super moon, the moon is at its closest approach to the Earth and looks approximately 14% larger and brighter than usual. The copper moon happens during a total lunar eclipse—when the Earth’s full shadow, umbra (darkest part of the shadow) falls on the moon it turns copper red instead of black. This is because of atmospheric refraction. Lastly, a total lunar eclipse occurs when the moon passes completely through the Earth’s dark shadow or umbra. During this type of eclipse, the moon will gradually get darker and then take on a rusty or blood red colour. The January 31 moon has all of these aspects thus making it a unique one. “This 100% parallel placement of the sun, moon and Earth, in a completely straight line is astronomically referred to as a syzgy,” said Satish Nayak, president of Association of Friends of Astronomy, Goa (AFA). He added that moon rise will occur in Goa by 6.30pm. AFA has announced statewide events to mark this spectacle at the Public Astronomical Observatory, Junta House, Panaji. Other centres of the organization will help students and the public view this phenomenon through telescopes starting 6.30pm to 9.30 pm on January 31.