In a recent blog, yesteryear actress   had clarified that she does not have any personal or professional association with her former partner and actor-turned-politician  . She had written the blog post to put an end to speculations about her allegiance and support to his recently formed political party,  . 

 However, following her post, there were a few who questioned and judged her on social media, and now, she has responded with another blog, titled 'Proof and judgements'. 
 
 In this post, she clearly mentions, 'I do not speak without reason. And I do not speak without proof.'
 
 
 
 In her previous blog post, on February 24, Gautami described the latter period of her relationship with Kamal Haasan as "an unrelenting torment", and also went on to accuse his production house, Raajkamal Films International, of withholding her fees for designing the costumes of its many productions.
 
 Here's the latest blog in her own words:
 
 
 
 My reason for having written the “Past is Past” letter is in the first line – to state that I have nothing to do with Mr. Haasan in any way and why. I was forced to make this statement at this time because of the extent of speculation about my “allegiance & support” coming from all sides. I expected nothing from anyone, least of all pending salaries from a company that I had worked for in a professional capacity. And, yes, I am surprised & disturbed by the harsh & judgemental reactions from people who know no details about the situation.
 
 My reasons for my decision to leave were several and they are strong enough to be irreversible. As a single mother, who is fighting to start life again and build a secure future on her own, I need to concentrate my energies on positive and constructive matters. There is so much in this life that is good, honest & joyful and I look towards that. There are good & compassionate human beings in this world and I look for those people to be in my life.
 
 Bad & unhappy things happen to all of us in life but we have a choice – to decide to look on the bright side & take on challenges with a positive attitude. That is what I have done.
 
 After everything I have been through in my life since the past 20 years, I have made a choice to look for positivity & peace in my life. I have found motivation & joy in working to help my people and that is my path in life. I seek no validation for my decision but the door is wide open for anyone who wants to join us in working for our society.
 
 In closing I would like to express my deepest love and gratitude for the love and support from so many who have reached out to me. Your words mean so much to me. They give me so much strength. Thank you…
 
 …And to all of those people who were so quick to judge me – you have known me for 30 years and I have never been one to throw my words around. When I say something about anyone, I do not speak without reason. And I do not speak without proof.
 
 
 
