Tikota (Vijayapura): Congresswomen had reason to be pleased on Saturday as their demand during assembly elections all these years for higher representation was voiced by party president   when he told chief minister   and KPCC chief G Parameshwara to give them more tickets.

 Turning to the Karnataka leaders at the Stree Shakti Convention at BLD School grounds, Rahul said: “I want to see more faces in the assembly and also in the cabinet.” 
 
 He said the Congress is committed to empowering women and if voted to power in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, it’ll pass and implement the Women’s Reservation Bill. He lauded Siddaramaiah for initiating several schemes for women empowerment in the state.
 
 “Karnataka is the No. 1 state in the country in ensuring safety for women. The number of women atrocities has come down considerably in the state. When BJP was in power, 1,030 women atrocities cases were registered while it came down to 590 during the Congress government,’’ Rahul said.
 
 He also recalled the contribution of Akkamahadevi, 12th century saint and poet, for women empowerment. “Congress is the only party which can continue to work for women’s safety and empowerment,’’ he added.
 
 In response to Rahul’s suggestion, Siddaramaiah assured he’d make an honest effort to give more tickets to women candidates. Listing schemes and programmes launched by his government for women empowerment, he said unless 33% reservation for women is made into an Act, the representation will be less. 
 
 He also recalled the government’s efforts to increase reservation for women from 33% to 50% in local bodies, which was opposed by former judge Justice Rama Jois in the Supreme Court. But the apex court upheld the government’s decision
 
 “When we took measures for constitutional amendments to increase reservation from 33% to 50% in local bodies, BJP’s counsel Justice Rama Jois opposed it in the Supreme Court. However, we won the legal battle after SC upheld our move when BJP was ruling the state. It shows that BJP is averse to women’s reservation and women empowerment,’’ Siddaramaiah said.
 
 Rahul was presented a bust of social reformer Basavanna, as well as a shawl and jacket made by Lambani women along with the Mysuru Petha. Earlier, scores of women attired in traditional Ilkal saris with kumba on their head welcomed Rahul.
 
 
