KOLKATA: Designated pick-up and drop-off points for taxi and app   passengers have come to Kolkata.

 Cops have selected 108 such points on 26 thoroughfares like Central Avenue, Chowringhee, Strand Road, Diamond Harbour Road, CIT Road and AJC Bose Road. Drivers, who stop on these major roads at places other than the 108 designated points, face a Rs-100 fine for the first offence and will have to fork out Rs 300 for every subsequent one; repeat offenders stand the risk of losing their licence.
 
 Blue-and-white boards have already come up on all these 26 roads. But there is no bar on picking up or dropping off passengers on any city road other than these selected thoroughfares.
 
 “Recent findings indicate that app cabs and taxis stopping anywhere and everywhere on these main roads are a key contributor to traffic jams,”   deputy commissioner (traffic)   said on Monday. “We have also found that these vehicles often wait near crossings or on bus bays, obstructing traffic flow,” he added, explaining the reason behind identifying specific points where cabs could stop for passengers. The new system kicked in last week.
 
 “I was unaware of the new system and dropped a passenger at the   crossing, when a sergeant came up to me and booked me,” Arjun Singh, an app cab driver, said after his brush with the new law on Monday.
 
 A senior officer at   said the 108 points had been identified after a thorough survey to ensure passengers would not have to walk extra-long distances. 
 
 “We just want to ensure that the cars do not block major roads, especially near key crossings, and create traffic bottlenecks,” a Lalbazar officer told TOI. “But, on all other roads, taxis and app cabs can continue to pick up and drop off passengers like they have been doing all this while,” he added.
 
 While the move generated a lot of angst among the commuters who wondered if they would suddenly need to change the life of comfort they were used to at the advent of app cabs, a section of private car owners hailed the decision. Tarun Agarwal who drives to his office on Park Street every day, said, “The way the app cabs park their cars just about anywhere on the road to pick-up and drop passengers is a menace for self driving car owners like us. I welcome the move by the police.”
 
 
