BAREILLY: With four girls out of five students bagging the first three ranks of Indian School Certificate exams, results of which were declared on Monday, girls took a lead in Class XII exams in the city. While one girl secured the first position in  , three students — two girls and a boy — were placed in the second position and the third rank was bagged by a girl student.
 
  However, in the Indian Certificate School Examination (ICSE) for Class X, boys outclassed girls in the city. The first three ranks in Class X exams were occupied by students of Hartmann College.
  
  With 98% marks, Apoorva Maheshwari occupied the first slot in Bareilly in Class XII exams while   Pandey topped Class X with 98.2% marks.
  
  Thanking his teachers and family for their support, Class X topper Krish Pandey said, “I have practiced and revised chapters much before exams and hence, I did not feel the stress during exams. I was confidant of scoring more than 95%.’’
  
  Krish has opted for Science in Class XI as he wants to pursue a career in medicine or do research in future. Krish’s father, AK Pandey, is a contractor in the railways while his mother, Anjuli, is a homemaker. 
  
  The second rank in Class X was bagged by   who scored 97.6% marks while here was a tie between   and Parth Dwivedi for third position with 97.4%.
  
  Ayush has already started preparations to make it to   (IIT) as wishes to do research in Physics. He said, “I was nervous before the exams but when I appeared for two exams, I realised that the board exams portrayed as tough are like our normal exams. Daily study with proper strategy is the best way to crack the exams.’’
  
  Supriyam added that students should concentrate on solving question papers of previous years.
  
  Apoorva Maheshwari, who topped the city in the Class XII exams with 98% marks was also one of the toppers in her school in Class X exams. Apoorva’s father, Pramendra Maheshwari, is a doctor but she wants to become an IAS officer. “I want to serve the poor.”
  
  Celebrating her success with other students at Hartmann College, Apoorva said defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman is her role model. 
  
  With 97%, the second rank was jointly shared by Poornima Dubey and Sumedha Gupta of St Maria Goretti Inter College and Mohd Amir of Girish Prasad Memorial College in Class XII in the city. Amir is the only boy in Class XII to occupy one of the top three slots in the city.
  
  Sharing her success mantra, Poornima said, “I never took stress and would even watch many movies on television and videos on YouTube during the exams.’’ As Mathematics is her favourite subject, Poornima wants to become a mathematician.
  
  Nandini Saxena of Hartmann College secured the third rank in the city with 96% marks.
