GURUGRAM: A driver registered with cab aggregator Uber has been arrested for allegedly clicking pictures of a fashion designer near the upscale DLF   1 while she was having tea with her friends in the open space outside the mart on Wednesday evening. 

 After noticing the driver’s actions, the woman called police, who immediately reached the spot, arrested the man and made him delete her pictures. He was produced in a city court on Thursday and sent to judicial custody.
 
 According to police, the woman, a 25-year-old DLF 5 resident who works with a private company, was having tea with her two friends outside the mart when Anurag (35), a resident of   village in   district, started clicking pictures of her. The three women noticed what he was doing and asked him to delete the pictures but he refused to do so. After cops were informed of the matter, they reached the spot and nabbed Anurag, who claimed he was clicking random pictures in the market while waiting for customers. However, when cops checked his mobile phone, they found pictures of the fashion designer as well as several other women in it. 
 
 The woman lodged a complaint with the cops and an FIR was registered against Anurag under Section 509 (act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of IPC at Sector 29 police station.
 
 “Around 2.30pm on Wednesday, I was out with my two friends in the open space of Super Mart 1. While having tea, I noticed that a cab driver was clicking objectionable pictures of us as he stood by his white Swift Dzire cab. When confronted, he denied our allegation and refused to give his phone. So my friends and I called the police. Later, I was shocked to see pictures of different women in his mobile phone. It seems he’s a repeat offender. Misconduct like this should be taken seriously,” the woman told TOI.
 
 “After receiving a call, our team, including female cops, reached the spot and arrested the driver. He deleted the pictures of the complainant in front of her and we took his mobile phone into custody. Now, he has also confessed to the crime. Today, we produced him in a city court. He was sent to judicial custody,” said inspector  , SHO, Sector 29 police station.
 
 “We condemn the behaviour of the person concerned. He was not on trip when the incident happened. We’ve already offered our assistance to police in the matter and proactively removed the offender’s access to our app,” said an Uber spokesperson.
 
