NAGPUR: The   government has finally decided to   the services of 226 out of 400   in the public   department who are between the age of 58 and 60 years. A letter was issued in this regard late on Thursday evening. These doctors were otherwise expected to superannuate on May 31.

 
 After the state’s decision, those who have been left out have threatened to take legal recourse. Many BAMS and MBBS doctors from the city and left out of the list told TOI that the decision was either biased or there was some mistake in compiling the list. “The authorities have selectively retained only Class I officers and left the lower officials though they qualified the age criteria. Whatever is the reason, those who have been left out will not take it lying down. They will knock the court doors,” said a source.
 
 These doctors include officers right from the top like director health services, additional director, joint direction, deputy director, assistant director and medical officers, civil surgeons, district health officers etc. The decision will be put forth before the cabinet for clearance.
 
 The fate of these doctors in the state’s health   was hanging in balance and they were living under constant confusion and fear about their retirement for the last one month as there were no instructions from the higher authorities.
 
 A government resolution (GR) is needed to implement such a decision. However, as the code of conduct due to by-elections was in force, additional secretary VP Ghodke issued the letter announcing the decision.
 
 Dr Sanjeev Kamble, state’s director of health services, told TOI that the letter means that all those doctors who are less than 60 years of age and have completed 58 years of age will be continued. These include doctors between the grade pay scale of Rs5,400 and above and Rs6,600 and above.
 
 Dr Meena Deshmukh, medical superintendent of Employment State Insurance Scheme (ESIS) in the city, said that she was relieved and happy about the continuation of the services of some specialists in her hospital. There are 119 beneficiaries of the decision in the ESIS alone in the state.
 
 “Had it not been for the decision, the hospital would have had to close the general medicine department and certain other departments. It is a very good step for both the patients as well as the hospital staff,” said Dr Deshmukh.
 
 
