AHMEDABAD: With 43 lakh registered vehicles on city roads, traffic congestion is inevitable. No wonder, the commissioner of Ahmedabad municipal corporation ( ), Mukesh Kumar, has proposed allocation of 19% — Rs 611.97 crore — of the civic body’s Rs 6,500 crore budget to bypasses for congested roads, ambient air pollution and electronic surveillance for traffic management. 

 This year the AMC has not proposed any tax hike. However, the 50%   on jantri-based carpet area has been withdrawn.
 
 The AMC commissioner has also earmarked 14% of the budget for laying new drainage and water supply trunk lines in the affordable housing zone along SP ring road. Here plans for constructing more than 75,000 affordable housing units has been passed by the AMC in the last three-and-half years. 
 
 “More than 15,000   have already been given for individual housing units,” Kumar said.
 
 Further, the municipal commissioner has reserved another 19 % of municipal budget for constructing 26 new underpasses, bridges, flyovers and roads. He also proposes to spend Rs 190 crore on two massive three-layered flyovers over Paldi and Nehrunagar. He has also announced another Rs 100 crore budget for building more than 3-km-long elevated bridge that will connect Jamalpur bridge with Kalupur station and run over the BRTS lane. 
 
 “In December, Parliament had reduced the 100-metre construction restriction around protected heritage monuments to 30 meters,” Kumar said. “This made us propose the Kalupur elevated bridge.” 
 
 The   has also made provisions for demarcating 30,000 square metres of parking space along SG Highway for 1,600 two-wheelers and more than 900 cars. The budget even proposes multi-level parking near Ujala and Vaishnodevi circles.
 
 A senior AMC official said: “This year the AMC will announce a comprehensive parking policy that will define the scope of residential and commercial zone parking.” 
 
 Another major provision in the budget is for upgrading and augmenting sewage treatment plant capacities to 498 million litres per day in the eastern part of the city, primarily Jalvihar, Vinzol, Vasna, Lambha, Shankarbhuvan and  .
 
 “At Pirana we plan to produce electricity from gas generated from the sewage dump there. We have proposed a 2.5 megawatt power plant at Pirana,” said Kumar. Another plan is to rejuvenate Vastral, Shilaj, Saijpur, Naroda, Lambha, Sola and Motera lakes with treated sewage.
 
 This year the AMC proposes to begin construction of 35,000 EWS,   and affordable housing units. As part of the smart city project, Kumar has suggested 45 free WiFi spots in the city and has also proposed nearly 6,200 CCTV surveillance cameras. 
 
 
