GREATER NOIDA: Five persons, including three children, died and five others were seriously injured when a five-seater WagonR crammed with 10 passengers rammed a stationary truck on the   in Badalpur on Wednesday night.

  
  
 Police said all the 10 persons were members of a joint family who were returning home to Badpura village from a wedding in Indirapuram around 12.30am. The   threw open a slew of questions on police patrolling at night — or the lack of it — that allowed a vehicle as small as WagonR to travel at least 20km with 10 people before meeting with the crash near   village.
 
 SP (traffic), Noida, Anil Kumar Jha cited shortage of manpower when asked why the vehicle had not been intercepted at any of the intersections despite being overloaded. “We issue challans to people for overloading. But we are having to manage with only 150 traffic police personnel. It is because of this shortage that there was no traffic team patrolling the Badalpur area, where the accident took place,” Jha said.
 
 The dead were identified as Manveer Singh (38), his son Arjun (12), daughter Khushi (6), sister-in-law Neetu (26) and her daughter Nisha (8). Those injured were Manveer’s wife Sanju (32), niece Anjali (14), Neetu’s daughter Kashish (5), and her two sons Prashant (4) and Dipanshu (2). Arjun, Nisha and Khushi studied in Classes IV, II and nursery, respectively, in a local private school.
 
 Manveer lived with his three brothers — Satveer, Karamveer and Jasveer — in a joint family of farmers in Badpura village. Neetu is the wife of Satveer, while Anjali is Karamveer’s daughter. 
 
 Jasveer said his brother Manveer and the others had left home in the family-owned WagonR around 5.30pm on Wednesday.
 
 “They had gone to attend the marriage reception of our nephew, Sudhir, in Ghaziabad. We had spoken over the phone in the evening and everything was fine. It was around midnight when the accident took place 5km away from home,” he said.
 
 The police said the driver had parked the truck along the road opposite a dhaba that left only a small passage for other vehicles to pass. Sources said Manveer, who was at the wheel of the WagonR, had been speeding and failed to apply the brakes in time.
 
 Such was the impact of the collision that the WagonR was mangled, its front wheels got loose, windscreen smashed and the bonnet and doors were deformed.
 
 Some passersby called up the police, who brought out the occupants of the car and rushed them to Mohan Swaroop Hospital in Dadri. Five were declared dead on arrival while the remaining five were referred to Sarvodaya Hospital in Ghaziabad. Sources said the condition of the five was critical.
 
 The truck driver fled the spot after the accident. The victims’ family members and relatives blocked the GT Road for over an hour on Thursday morning demanding the immediate arrest of the truck driver. The protest was withdrawn when a police team accompanied by some local politicians assured them of swift action.
 
 “We are pained at the moment. I had spoken to them before they left for Ghaziabad,” said Manveer’s son Rohan (15), who had stayed back.
 
 Mukesh Kumar, the SHO of Badalpur police station, said a case under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304 A (death due to negligence), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 427 (mischief causing damage) of the IPC had been registered against the truck driver.
 
 “We have seized the truck and launched a search for the driver. The bodies have been handed over to the family after an autopsy,” he said.
 
 
