SURAT: The syndicate meeting of   (VNSGU) was held on the university campus amid   here on Tuesday. After the meeting started, some police officials were alerted by a couple of members of the syndicate who feared violence. Thus around 20 cops in uniform and civil dress were posted on the campus during the meeting which continued until late into the evening.

 The group of politicians affiliated to   and   ensured that three government representatives remained present in the meeting to ensure majority of their group which enjoys power at the university. The group that claims control over university administration had to put the report of local inquiry committees of around 200 colleges on hold in the last syndicate meeting held on May 2. Without the approval of the   report, the affiliation to the colleges was put on hold.
 
 The LIC report was objected to by eight members of the syndicate claiming that the committees were formed by the vice-chancellor without the approval of the syndicate. While those supporting the VC claimed that the powers were with the VC and the syndicate had approved the report without any objection in the past, this practice should continue now also. Due to government representatives, the LIC report was approved by the syndicate with 11 votes in support. Eight members objected to it.
 
 Since the group in control of the university had failed to get the report approved in the past, an attempt to reduce the number of syndicate members who objected to the proposal was made, alleged the group that opposed the move. VNSGU vice-chancellor Shivendra Gupta had ordered disqualification of Ghanshyam Rawal as teacher which ultimately also disqualified him as a syndicate member. The varsity also ordered setting up of an inquiry committee against Mahendra Chauhan. However, both Rawal and Chauhan approached the HC on Monday and got stay orders. 
 
 “There was no healthy discussion on any academic issue. The entire syndicate was controlled by those sitting outside the room. Syndicate should discuss important academic issues,” said Bhavesh Rabari, a syndicate member.
 
 
