As she sits draped in an emerald green sari, explaining the intricacies of Thanjavur bani of Carnatic music, one really cannot guess her age: Talking about her passion makes her gleam.  , 70, started her journey of Carnatic music holding the hands of T V Ramamurthy in 1960 in Bombay. And now, nearly 60 years later, she will be honoured as a pundit in the path that she chose for herself, with the Sangita Kala Acharya award from the Music Academy on January 1.

 A principal at the Shanmukhananda Fine Arts & Sangeetha Sabha Music School in Mumbai for a decade, the award came to her as a pleasant surprise. Teaching for her is a way to pass on the tradition and style of her gurus to the next generation. “Maintaining the rich heritage and legacy of Carnatic music is immensely important,” says  , who has composed music and been performing in the city during Margazhi until recently.
 
 Coming from a family which was extremely zealous about music, Namboodiri realised her calling from a young age. On the advice of her sister’s music teacher, her parents started her music training, and there was no looking back. Born and educated in Bombay, her love for music brought her to Chennai, where she joined the  .
 
 “I was exposed to music stalwarts like T Brinda, T K Govindrao and am fortunate that I was groomed in traditional Carnatic music,” she says. “Learning from   and his disciple T M   further whetted my interest and I decided to take up music as a profession.” Despite the several years on stage and as a teacher, Namboodiri still retains in her performances the excitement she had as a debutant.
 
 Asked if she still felt the same nervousness today before her performances, Namboodiri candidly answers. “Every concert is like an exam to me. There are loads of expectations to meet. Expectations of the audience as well as of mine.”
 
 After a stint with All India Radio and Doordarshan spanning three decades, the only tinge of regret that she has is that somewhere her responsibilities came in the way of her becoming a full-fledged performing artist. “But I enjoyed what I did because I had the opportunity to meet pathbreakers like  ,” she quickly adds.
 
 As one cannot stay away from their true calling, Namboodiri too finally found herself drawn to Carnatic music again, this time as a teacher who does not compromise on the aesthetics of her music. “I love teaching music. I get great happiness when my students sing the way I want them to,” she said.
 
