THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government on Tuesday issued a circular stating that only school heads are allowed to hoist the national flag in schools across the state, a stipulation that contradicts relevant portions in the Flag Code of India, which clearly provides for a person other than the school head to do the needful.

 The state government’s notification, routinely issued every year ahead of Republic Day and Independence Day, became controversial as   Mohan Bhagwat is slated to hoist the national flag at a school in Palakkad on Friday. Bhagwat had hoisted the national flag at Karnakayamman High School in Palakkad on August 15 last year, following which the LDF government pulled up the school authorities. The then Palakkad district collector P Marykutty had issued a memo to the school saying that it was not appropriate for a political leader to hoist the national flag at a school.
 
 
 
 
 The circular issued by general administration secretary said that in all government institutions and educational establishments only the heads of the institution or respective departments are allowed to hoist the national flag.
 
 The circular has also made mandatory that the national anthem should be played at the time of hoisting the national flag. Section 2.3 of the Flag Code of India 2002 doesn’t say that only the head of a school is allowed to hoist the national flag. “The school will assemble in open square formation with pupils forming the three sides and the flag-staff at the centre of the fourth side. The headmaster, the pupil leader and the person unfurling the flag (if other than the headmaster) will stand three paces behind the flag-staff,” the code says.
 
 “The circular has been issued with good intentions since there were several complaints about hoisting the national flag in the past. This is being done since officials are often not willing to hoist the flag since it is a holiday. The circular will make it compulsory that all heads are present on such days in their offices to hoist the national flag,” said tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran.
 
 
 
