AGRA: Gruesome murders of two women were witnessed in   on Saturday, leaving the local residents in shock.
 
  In the first case, which was reported from Jajumau village under Jasrana police jurisdiction, a 20-year-old woman was shot dead at her house allegedly by one of her family members. There was no one else in the house when the police arrived. The victim was identified as Renu.
  
  Udal Singh, station house officer of Jasrana police station, said, “Around 2am, the deceased’s mother, Kusum Devi made a distress call to Dial 100 and said that an unknown person had shot and killed her daughter, who was sleeping on the second floor of the house. When a police team reached at the crime spot, the victim was found lying in pool of blood which three bullets in her neck, stomach and chest.”
  
  “The deceased woman had divorced her husband two years ago and was currently living with her mother, two sisters and a brother. After the incident, the entire family left the house. We have sent the body for postmortem,” Singh said.
  
  According to officials, preliminary investigation suggests that the woman’s brother, Vipin Kumar, shot her dead as she was in a relationship with the son of a former village pradhan. Two years ago after getting married to an RPF constable in Shikohabad, she had reportedly eloped with the same man.
  
  A forensic team took fingerprint and blood samples from the spot, but couldn’t find the weapon used in the murder. Police are yet to lodge an FIR in the matter.
  
  In the second case under Shikohabad police jurisdiction, a 72-year-old woman was murdered at her residence. Identified as Rajeshwari Bansal, the victim used to live alone in Khatrana colony. A mother of four daughters, she was found lying in pool of blood with her throat slit. Officials said that her body was first spotted by the milkman around 9.30 am.
  
  Circle officer of Shikohabad, Sanjay Kumar Reddy said, “The woman was killed by someone who is very close to her family. During investigation, we have come to know of a property dispute which might have led to her murder. We will soon arrest the culprits.” According to police, the elderly woman was murdered between 7.30 pm and 10 pm on Friday night. Her body has been sent for postmortem.
