JAIPUR/VADODARA: A 30-year-old income tax inspector from   killed his wife and buried her body in a six-feet deep pit inside his house in Harni area of Vadodara. After the grisly act, he also filed a missing complaint with the Jaipur police as a ploy to evade the police’s growing suspicion on him.

 A native of Alwar in Rajasthan, Lokesh Choudhary’s bluff was called by Jaipur’s   police on Saturday, when he admitted to killing his wife, Munesh (28), following his illicit relationship.
 
 “He called Munesh to Vadodara from Jaipur, where he was posted as income tax inspector, and killed her with the aid of his friend on April 11,” said additional DCP (East) Hanuman Prasad.
 
 Interestingly, Choudhary weaved a story about her wife being abducted by some youths in Gandhi Nagar locality.
 
 When the needle of suspicion directly pointed at him, Choudhary hectored cops about failing to find his wife. “He complained about cops not finding his wife. He also shared pictures of Munesh on several WhatsApp groups and claimed that she went missing after some bike-borne youths trailed him,” the official said.
 
 When the trail of evidence led to Choudhary, he was detained for questioning. He then admitted that he had murdered Munesh as he wanted to marry another girl.
 
 “He had married Munesh on February 2017. She was studying in Jaipur. Around the same time, Choudhary developed a relationship with another girl who also hailed from Alwar,” Prasad said, adding that the girl asked Choudhary to divorce Munesh.
 
 “He did not want to divorce Munesh due to family and legal reasons. Hence, he hatched a conspiracy with his friend to kill his wife. He sent his friend to Jaipur and asked Munesh to come to   with him. Meanwhile, he made all the plans for the final act,” said an official.
 
 When Munesh arrived at his house in Harni, Choudhary and his friend strangled her and buried the body in a trench they had already dug. Police said the victim’s father has alleged that the accused and his family had harassed her for dowry and withdrawn money from her bank account.
 
 On Sunday, a team of Rajasthan police led by Kavendra Singh, assistant commissioner of police, visited the locality in Vadodara.
 
 “We will bring the body to Jaipur for the postmortem and other relevant tests. It was also found that the accused had applied salt on the body and had buried it in a 6-feet deep pit. He had also put some water in it to ensure that the body gets fully decomposed easily. The body was partially decomposed,” said Kavednra while talking to TOI over phone from Vadodara on Sunday.
 
 According to police, Choudhary also confessed that from planning the murder of his wife to its execution, his plan was to manage things in such a manner that it seemed like a case of kidnap followed by murder.
 
 “While having a word with his wife some hours prior to the murder he had specifically told her not to carry mobile phones and also asked his friend to follow the same. We are looking for his friend who too would be booked for criminal conspiracy,” said Kunwar Rastradeep, deputy commissioner of police (East).
 
 Rastradeep said that at least 50 people were regularly coming to Gandhi Nagar police station and were accusing the police of dilly dally approach. “It was a missing person case. We took it seriously and our SHO prioritised the case. The over reaction of the accused, Lokesh Choudhary, and the way he was continuously pursuing the case made us suspicious. Finally he confessed his crime,” he added.
 
 He married Munesh in February, 2017 but he was in a relationship with another woman, thus the motive behind the crime was to get rid of his wife.
 
 
