THANE: The district planning committee has proposed a budget allocation of Rs 498 crore to improve road connectivity, public health infrastructure and conserve ecology across the district in 2018-19. The plans were unveiled by  , district guardian minister in a meeting of the district planning committee on Wednesday. 

 While Rs 306.74 crore has been earmarked under the general plan, the tribal welfare projects have seen an allocation of Rs 120 crore. The special component works will utilise another Rs 70 crore taking the total expenditure to around Rs 498 crore, said district planning officer Amol Khandare. Shinde said that the administration was keen to develop roads and has brought the sector under the core segment of budget allocation. 
 
 An allocation of around Rs 43 crore was made for the same in the next fiscal while the vital Dombivli- Mumbai road via Mankoli- Motegaon will also see some traction, he added. The need for better security of mangroves and forest cover in the district was also discussed in the meeting. There has been a sustained attack on the mangroves and creek beds by the sand mafia in various parts of the district wrecking not just the ecology but also environment causing revenue losses for the administration. 
 
  
  
 “The menace has become difficult to curtail and there is a need for stringent action under the   (MCOCA) and the Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Slumlords, Bootleggers, Drug Offenders and Dangerous Persons Act (MPDA) to be slapped on the offenders to discourage them from indulging in illegal activities,” suggested Shinde. 
 
 Around 33 primary health care centres in the district will see a facelift, including introduction of CT scan machines at the district hospital. Presently, several patients have to be referred to other hospitals or to Mumbai for lack of this facility. The outlay presented by the district administration was unanimously okayed and will now be sent to the   for approval and implementation for the next fiscal year.
