CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has set aside the verdict passed by a   (military court) against an   on the grounds that the technical process followed in case anyone pleads guilty to the charges against them were not followed. 

 The high court reversed the verdict as the Havildar was not informed about the effect of him pleading guilty to the charges in the court.
 
 Justice P B   passed these orders while setting aside the verdict of the Army's court martial on a petition filed by  , former Havildar of the corps of Electrical and Mechanical Engineers (EME) of the Indian Army.
 
 Sukhdev was court martialed on the charges of rash and negligent driving in which one civilian was killed in Amritsar in June 2006. 
 
 
 
 
 The Amritsar chief judicial magistrate had referred the matter to the military court for action against its jawan.
 
 The army authorities convened the court martial, which on March 30, 2008 imposed the penalty of reduction in rank and also sentenced Sukhdev to onemonth rigorous imprisonment. He was convicted after he pleaded guilty to the charges of rash and negligent driving.
 
 
 Following the orders, Sukhdev was discharged from service on June 3, 2009 because his service was altered due to penalty of reversion. Sukhdev challenged the findings of the court martial in the high court. Captain Sandeep Bansal, the jawan’s counsel, submitted that order of sentence is liable to be set aside as the Army failed to comply with Rules 115 and 116 of the Army Rules, 1954.
 
 
 Captain Bansal stated that the Army Rules clearly provide that the court shall ascertain that the accused understands the nature and effect of the charge “to which he has pleaded guilty.” While imposing the sentence, Sukhdev’s rank was reduced from Havildar to Sepoy. “In between Havildar and Sepoy, rank of Naik is available. No reasons have been assigned by the concerned authority as to why petitioner was required to be reverted by two ranks. 
 
 Thus there was total non-application of mind even while demoting the petitioner from Havildar to Sepoy,” Sukhdev’s counsel had argued. The high court, in recently-released order, set aside the court martial order and said Sukhdev must be considered to have been discharged from service from November 14, 2011 in the cadre of Havildar. It also issued directions that all service and monetary benefits must be extended to him. 
 
 The court also ruled that mere admission of accident does not amount to admission of negligence as no material was produced by the military court to prove that a motor vehicle accident had taken place due to negligence of the soldier.
 
 
