Ludhiana: Raising serious question marks over the security around polling booths during the MC elections in Ludhiana, a fierce clash broke out between Congress and SAD supporters outside a booth in BRS Nagar, falling in ward number 75, on Saturday afternoon. 

 During the fight that lasted for about an hour, several gunshots were heard as the members of rival groups attacked each other with swords, rods and firearms.
 
 Police said one person was injured and at least three vehicles were damaged in the clash. The high pitch drama came to an end only after additional police force was rushed to the spot from Sarabah Nagar. The attackers ran away after hearing the noise of police siren. 
 
 Soon after the incident, supporters of both the parties started levelling allegations against each other for the violence. Akali leaders claimed that local Congress leaders had attempted to capture a booth. 
 
 SAD’s Sukhminder Kaur Bhinda, wife of former councillor Bhupinder Singh Binda, and Congress’s Amrit Varsha Rampal, the contestants from the ward, denied the allegations levelled against them. 
 
 “Congress workers were trying to cast bogus votes, but their attempts were thwarted by the SAD workers as a result of which a scuffle broke out between them. I heard gunshots which the Congress workers fired, but I could not see their faces as I was inside the school premises,” Surinder Mohan Singh, who was there during the incident. 
 
 Bhinda too claimed that the Congress workers had gathered outside the booth in huge numbers and many of them attempted to capture a booth. “When we stopped them, the Congressmen attacked them injuring several of them,” he said.
 
 Congress leaders and supporters on the other hand blamed the SAD workers for the fracas. “My fellow worker and I were doing duty outside the polling booth when we were suddenly attacked by Bhinda and his supporters,” said Naginder Singh Gora, a Congress worker. 
 
 The TOI team saw an empty bullet shell from the spot, which was taken away by an unidentified person, who locals said was a Congress worker. When TOI team tried to stop him, he claimed that he was going to hand it over to the police. Cops however later maintained that they did not recover any empty shell or weapons from the spot.
 
 Later, when Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu and MLA Bharat Bhushan Ashu arrived at the spot, some of the workers alleged that accused were taking shelter in the house opposite the school. Police teams searched the home and arrested one person who is said to be Akali worker, who according to Congressmen, was allegedly involved in the attack.
 
 Soon after the incident, Ludhiana police commissioner R N Dhoke said the matter was being probed and a case would be registered only after proper investigation.
 
 “There has been an incident of scuffle and gunshots were fired outside DAV Public School in BRS Nagar. ADC Gurpreet Kaur Purewal has been handed over the investigation and FIR will be registered once she submits a report,” Dhoke said.
 
 Additional deputy commissioner of police-III Gurpreet Kaur Purewal said, “We have nabbed one person and as per eyewitnesses, he is among those six to seven miscreants who were involved in the attack. No weapon has been recovered from him and we are yet to verify his name. We suspect two shots were fired, but it is yet to be verified as no empty shells have been recovered from the spot so far.”
 
 “The complainants have alleged that after attacking them, one of the accused hid himself in the house. They will trace other attackers too and will be arrested after registering an FIR in this case,” Purewal said. 
 
 Purewal said nobody was injured with the gunshots and the police so far could confirm injury to only one person whose injuries were due to thrashing by rods.
 
 “Congress workers fired at SAD workers and innocent voters. They even thrashed and threatened the voters including women. One of the industrialists who is eyewitness to the incident, was shot at. He has already approached the police to record his statement. Naginder Singh Gora was leading the charge from their side since morning and regardless of our intimation to police officials that Gora holds a criminal record and will indulge into such tactics, police failed to keep him away from this booth. We demand a judicial probe into the incident so that truth can come out in the open that who was involved in violence and attempted to capture booths,” said Bhupinder Singh Bhinda.
 
 
