KOLKATA: Ruksana   lives in a dingy alley next to 65 Chittranjan Avenue. The slum, popularly known as 28/1 Giri  , is home to nearly 4,500 residents. They live in 120sq ft rooms they call their “home”. While the locality is dotted with several colleges and universities like Calcutta University, IISWBM, Goenka College of Commerce and Business Administration, St. Joseph’s College, not many of the slum dwellers have had the fortune to make it to the reputable institutions.

 Things may soon change with   taking it up to provide academic support to the children of the slum under a social service project.
 
  
 CU vice-chancellor   said, “We decided to work for for the community as we are going towards achieving excellence in higher education. We found that in the nearby slums financially backward students are trying to find academic assistance. Collective responsibility can uplift the disadvantaged.”
 
 A mother of five, Ruksana sends her eldest daughter — who is in Class X — to a lesser known school far from home. The others attend the only KMC-run primary school in the slum. The morning shift of the school gives over at12 noon while the afternoon session ends at 4pm. For most of the slum dwellers in the area, it is the only “free” primary school.
 
 Asifa, a resident of the slum for five years, said, “We can’t afford to send our wards to even a small school. We have to buy them books and copies for homework and pay for tuitions. With my meagre salary of Rs 4,500 per month working as a house maid, it is impossible to afford such ‘luxury’.”
 
 A tour of the slum reveals a shortage of schools. The sole KMC-run school offers “basic” education to the kids up to Class IV. Thereafter, people like Ruksana have to either send their children away to a far off school or put an end to the dreams of educating their children.
 
 Ward 44 councillor Rehana Khatoon took a lead in the initiative and had invited CU for the project. “I had taken them to four slums so that they can identify one to adopt. They took a close look at the lives in four slums in Phears Lane, Chhata Wala Galli, Giri Babu Lane and Blackburn Lane.The KMC-run primary school will also give them a place to teach the children.”
 
 She added, “We shall identify 40 to 42 kids living in the nearby slums who shall attend classes. There is no problem there except that most of the residents earn their living by working as maids, labourers or as hawkers. Most cant afford tuitions.”
 
 Saddam, who works at Saheb Tailors in the slum, often interacts with the kids and parents. “It is a great initiative by the councillor and CU. The students can now think of pursuing higher studies,” he said.
 
 Khatoon said computer training will also be arranged. “I shall make available two or three computers. I hope the children find the classes interesting.”
 
 
  
 
 
