PANAJI: On the orders of health minister Vishwajit Rane, the health department on Tuesday constituted a committee to investigate why with Goa Medical College ( ) and Hospital failed to receive kidneys that were recently harvested at Manipal hospital. 

 "I'm deeply hurt that Goan patients were deprived. Hence, I want to know what systemic failure led to this, and who is responsible," Rane told TOI.
 
 Rane said that the committee headed by joint secretary health   has been tasked to suggest measures so that these type of problems do not occur in future. "Whoever is responsible for this mess would be penalised," warned the health minister.
 
 Rane also said that the State   and Tissue Transplant Organisation (SOTTO) would be put in place at the earliest.
 
 The recent transfer of a deceased donor’s liver and kidneys from through a green corridor from Manipal hospital to Mumbai has kicked up a controversy, with GMC issuing an order on Tuesday that its organ coordinator Dr Mahesh Panche should make himself available for an inquiry over the hospital’s failure to get possession of the organs.
 
 A source said that GMC, being the nearest transplant facility for Manipal Hospital, where the organs were retrieved, should have received the kidneys instead. Panche has been asked not to leave the state and has been barred from attending any training programme in Goa or elsewhere.
 
 A green corridor was created by Goa police last Friday, helping doctors to transport the kidneys and liver of a brain-dead patient from Bambolim to   airport, a distance of 30 km, in a record time of 24 minutes. The organs were immediately flown to a Mumbai-based hospital for transplant.
 
 Two kidneys and the liver harvested from B   were sent to a Mumbai hospital to be distributed to patients there, following instructions from the Regional Organ and Tissue Transplant Organization (ROTTO).“Since GMC does not have a liver transplant facility, there is no question of us making a demand for the liver. Yet, the kidneys were taken out of Goa, due to the utter failure of the administration on the grounds that GMC does not have a facility to conduct cadaveric transplants,” said a source, adding, “GMC missed a golden opportunity to do a cadaveric transplant.”
 
 “GMC’s dean, Dr Pradeep Naik, was requested to make necessary arrangements as we expected to receive the kidneys, but he marked our request to Panche,” said a source.
 
 Panche, he said, allegedly forwarded the letter - an internal communication of the GMC - to ROTTO and others. Naik had told TOI on Friday that he had contacted ROTTO, but the organs were not given to the GMC due to lack of a cadaveric transplant facility. 
 
 “The GMC has done 16 live kidney transplants, so far. On this basis, we requested the dean to approach ROTTO to place our request that the kidneys should be brought to GMC,” said the source.
 
 The source further dismissed allegations that GMC does not have a laboratory for crossmatch testing and was, thus, incapable of doing cadaveric transplant.
 
 “When the possibility arose of receiving kidneys, eligible patients were called. Their relatives were ready to go to Mumbai with samples for crossmatch testing, and return with results the same day. We need to have a crossmatch testing facility, but in the absence of that, we send our samples to Mumbai,” the source said. The source further said that allegations about GMC not having a list of eligible patients who could receive kidneys was “rubbish”. “The nephrology department drew up the list long ago,” he said.
 
 
