MUMBAI:   want the   to clarify whether the new norms on non-performing assets (NPAs) will apply to   where restructuring has been initiated. They are also not sure whether the new rules require them to get external ratings for all restructured loans.

 “The new guidelines expressly state the loans in respect of which the new   norms will apply. However, it does not say that they will not apply to loan that are restructured,” said a senior banker. 
 
 “It is also not clear whether the exemptions (on the NPA classification) for earlier restructured loans will include strategic debt restructuring (SDR) cases where new promoters have not been brought in,” said a banker.   refers to cases where lenders convert debt to equity and sell it to a new promoter who comes with a viable business plan. 
 
 Many stressed loans have been referred to SDR, and are not yet classified as NPAs, but new promoters have also not been found yet.
 
 According to  , in the medium term, banks will see a spike in their NPAs over the next couple of quarters. “The standard restructured accounts stood in the range of Rs 1.8-1.9 lakh crore as on March 31, 2017, and the incremental provisioning requirement for banks would be in the range of Rs 40,000-50,000 crore for FY19,” the ratings agency said.
 
 The stock of gross NPAs in the banking system is seen rising to Rs 9.5 lakh crore by the end of this fiscal. According to Crisil, NPAs started rising fast since fiscal 2015, and trebled from Rs 3.2 lakh crore seen then, after the RBI pushed banks to recognise NPAs on time rather than kick the can down the road. 
 
 However, while NPAs have risen, the overall stressed assets have stabilised. Stressed assets include   plus troubled loans which are not classified as NPAs but those where borrowers have been given more time through restructuring schemes. Globally, analysts look at stressed assets rather than NPAs because a large chunk of restructured loans also eventually slip into default.
 
 Gross non-performing advances (GNPAs) ratio of banks rose from 9.2% in September 2016 to 9.6% in March 2017. However, the stressed advances ratio declined from 12.3% to 12% due to fall in restructured standard advances. 
 
 
