These are interesting times in cricket. There are more issues to be sorted for the administrators to retain the charm of the game.  , while he expresses his fascination for the modern, spoke to TOI on all the issues—from over-reliance on   to player conduct to burnout issues to the dearth of quality in any team to match the dizzy heights of West Indies and Australia. 

 
 
 
 We could do with changing the international calendar. One format of the game may be successful and then we put our energies into that. Administrators have a huge role in making sure that it is an even playing field. Let’s not experiment too much with what we have. T20s did give cricket a facelift. Let’s not overlook the fact that the best players who played best T20s have played Test match cricket—AB de Villiers,  , Steve Smith,   and Kane Williamson. All these guys have balance in their base.
 
 
 I can bet you, if there wasn’t any T20, their first thoughts would have been about representing their countries. All these guys will achieve what they want to achieve if they are good enough players. If the administrators can find avenues for these individuals to play for their countries because it is a platform that every player needs to become good T20 players. T20 players when lose their form, it’s difficult to come back. The names mentioned earlier have played the best T20 cricket and best Test cricket because they understand the balance and the background they have.
 
 
 We went to Packer, we weren’t thinking about playing only one-day cricket. We were protesting what was happening in world cricket. The salaries after the Kerry Packer series, the salaries got better and a little bit more attractive and coloured clothing came in. Packer period was change for the best in my opinion.
 
 
 It would have been easier. But you got to see that it was a protest. It lasted for a while. Every one moved back to their respective countries. We did it for a cause. We went back not just because the salaries got better but Packer had his wishes in terms of rights and broadcast
 
 
 T20 will survive. But look at the players we revere like  ,  ,  , Sunil Gavaskar. It’s nice to have that half of cricket. It’s like golf where you remember Jack Nicklaus and Tiger Woods because they have won Majors multiple times. All other guys are good winners in PGA. That’s why Majors are called Majors. Test cricket is the same. Tests give you the background and foundation that the game is much more complicated than what we see at present.
 
 
 Let’s wait and see a few months if he starts feeling a little bit better. Sometimes guys say this today and something different a few days later. He may look fit but inside he may not be feeling fit.
 
  
  
 
 
 Some guys think that. You got to know your body. Kerry Packer created the professional side of fitness which is the benchmark for today. You don’t have to be superfast on the field. People can anticipate. Fitness does play a part because of the volume of cricket. Administrators need to listen to the complaints of the players. They don’t even have off seasons.
 
 
 You can’t have it both ways. It is either you maintain your fitness so that you play longer or play as often as possible and get burnt but you will be earning money.
 
 
 I think ICC should have its own panel of curators and stick to a particular specification.
 
 
 I guess they wouldn’t have done that with cap on. When you have a suit of armour you can do anything. It’s great for the game.
 
 
 Sometimes you have to throw the coaching manual through the door. It has become instinctive by batsmen. People reverse sweep in Test matches.
 
 
 Maybe they have their reason. But when I look at some of the guys presently in the South African team, there is (Kagiso) Rabada, (Lungi) Ngidi and (Vernon) Philander. When someone goes, there is someone else to fill that gap. Cricket lives on when somebody goes.
 
 
 I don’t blame Chris. I blame the people who are managing cricket in terms of the volume they could have got out of Gayle. They must have felt they made a mistake because we see him back when that could have been done a little earlier.
 
 
 It’s petty because Bravo is talented and he could have helped West Indies cricket progress. Boards don’t handle it well. That’s why guys make that decision to not play for their country because they can make money somewhere else.
 
 
 There’s nothing wrong in competing. Only thing I laugh about is that hearing an Australian accusing someone else of verbally abusing him. I am laughing in my sleep when they were saying they were abused in South Africa. You don’t have to behave like them to be competitive. You can be confrontational. (Virat) Kohli took a lot in Australia and hit back by hitting four centuries there.
 
  
  
 
 
 Sometimes the guy jumps around because he would have had that himself. We have seen that done by Australians in the past. Why not Kohli? You can only give it back to them only when you are in the winning circle. You can’t give it back when you are losing. When you are winning a battle, that’s your time to say ‘mate, get on your bike’ without being racial.
 
 
 I don’t think Kohli would do it if he couldn’t handle it himself. It serves no purpose if you keep giving send-offs and then you keep getting out when you go out to bat. Kohli knows he can deliver. Yes, you can have failures. But failures shouldn’t deter you from being the way you are. I would have loved to play in the modern day because I like to compete. I missed the competitive nature all around the world.
 
 
 He is a proper player. He doesn’t need to play those dinky shots because that is taking a chance. He values his innings more than others.
 
 
 You need a team which maintains its Test-match status but still be good enough to compete in T20s because there are tournaments to be played at the world level. Teams are not touring well. For me to put money on a team is difficult because all of them have a lot of work to do.
 
 
 We could have said this we used to beat India in two and a half days. The participation in cricket is so small, we should try help one another. We used to roll teams over inside three days. Because we didn’t talk about two-tier system then, we have teams who played on, got better and now compete at a higher level.
 
 
 I don’t see fast bowlers these days. Some guys choose to bowl just four overs. Pakistan may have the best seam attack because of the abundance. They have the aggression. I don’t want to sound cocky but I wouldn’t mind to bat in this era. Batsman have got used to playing fast bowling on flat pitches that has affected their game against smart spin bowlers like Rashid Khan.
 
 
 
 
