GURUGRAM: The widening work of the stretch of   that passes through   village is unlikely to be completed before the monsoon season. This is because   has not yet able to get the possession of land required for   due to the delay in rehabilitation of oustees.

 Huda had in August 2017 allotted alternative plots in Sector 37C to 35 oustees of Khandsa village, whose houses were coming in the way of drain widening. But due to variation in the plot size in layout plan, the physical possession of the plots could not be given. The six marla plots were shown as four marla in the layout plan due to which oustees were alloted plot bigger than they were eligible for.
 
 The mistake came to light in September 2017 and Huda soon stopped giving physical possession of the plots. It took about six months to make correction in the layout plan and reschedule the allotment. 
 
 Huda conducted a fresh draw of lot few days back to give alternative plots to the oustees.
 
 “We have allotted alternative plots to every oustees, except four. The remaining four oustees will be allotted alternative plots soon,” Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav told TOI on Tuesday.
 
  “Some 18 structures were removed in August 2017 and the remaining structures will be removed at the earliest for the widening of the drain,” he added.
 
  and Jogender Singh, who are among the four yet to get alternative plots, said even after getting physical possession of alternative plots, they would need at least six month to relocate after constructing a house on the land. “We will vacate our houses in Khandsa village only after construction of our new homes,” said Singh.
 
 After the Gurujam in July 2016, due to waterlogging at Hero  , the state government had announced the widening of the Badshapur drain passing through Khandsa village to increase its carrying capacity. 
 
 The 39.96km long and 30m wide Badshapur drain, which starts from Ghata and empties into Najafgarh drain, narrows down to 10m at Khandsa, reducing its carrying capacity from 1,200 cusec to just 500 cusec. In certain areas in Khandsa, the channel becomes as narrow as 4-5m, preventing water, which flows into the drain from all parts of the city, to pass through at the expected pace, causing waterlogging.
 
 
