NAVI MUMBAI:  ,  , transferred an assistant commissioner of police, Kiran Patil, for his “slack supervision” in the alleged false FIR registered against a builder, Suresh Jain. 

 The builder had been arrested in a cheating and forgery case by a sub-inspector (PSI) who in connivance with a property investor and two builders allegedly demanded Rs 5 crore extortion money from Suresh Jain’s son Hitesh for the release of his father.
 
 Meanwhile, speculation is rife in police circles that more high-ranking officers will come under the scanner of administrative action in the builder’s  .
 
 Nagrale said, “ACP (Turbhe division) Kiran Patil has been transferred to the control room for his alleged poor supervision and false registration of the case. Also, for entertaining preventive action in chapter case under Section 110 of the criminal procedure code, against builder Suresh Jain, which is illegal and against procedures. Subsequently, an administrative inquiry has been initiated and DCP (headquarters) has been entrusted with conducting the preliminary enquiry. As ACP Amol Zende who was at the control room has been posted as ACP (Turbhe division) in replacement of ACP Kiran Patil.”
 
 After suspending PSI Sanjay Yadav and senior inspector Ramchandra Deshmukh in connection with the case of extortion demand from builder Suresh Jain, Nagrale has taken administrative action against ACP Kiran Patil as he neither inquired about the case nor verified documents to register an FIR against Suresh Jain. Also, ACP Patil did not guide the investigating officer PSI Sanjay Yadav in the allegations by the complainant against Suresh Jain and did not ascertain whether a proper inquiry was carried out for registering an FIR and arresting Suresh Jain.
 
 In December 2017, Nagrale had ordered a preliminary enquiry to be conducted by ACP (crime) Nilesh Raut after Hitesh Jain, son of arrested builder Suresh Jain, complained to the DGP, home minister and to Nagrale. The report by ACP Raut stated ACP Kiran Patil’s slack supervision over his subordinate PSI Sanjay Yadav of Turbhe MIDC police station who allegedly indulged in illegal action of arresting Suresh Jain in a false case.
 
 PSI Sanjay Yadav has been suspended after it was revealed that, being the investigating officer, against guidelines issued by Navi Mumbai police chief regarding probe of economic offences, he denied an opportunity to builder Suresh Jain to prove his innocence and arrested him on Diwali night in haste without collecting sufficient evidence. Also, his son Hitesh was wrongly confined and Suresh Jain was subjected to undue coercion and threat to extort Rs 5 crore.
 
 Hitesh (29) had alleged that PSI Yadav in connivance with a few from the realty industry demanded Rs 5 crore to release his father He claimed his father had been implicated.
 
 
