PATNA: Prime Minister   will address over 20,000 swachhagrahis from across the country at Motihari Gandhi Maidan on April 10.

 Over 3,000 police personnel would be deployed in and around the venue where the prime minister would attend ‘Paridarshan Karyakram’ from 11am to 2pm, East Champaran district magistrate (DM) Raman Kumar said on Sunday. “The state police headquarters has provided additional police force for the programme. At least 500 magistrates will also be on duty,” the DM said.
 
 Patna district public relation officer (DPRO) Anil Kumar Chaudhary said as per the tentative programme, PM Modi would land at Patna airport by a special Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft at around 10am on Tuesday and leave for Motihari in an IAF chopper. He would return to Patna airport at 2pm and leave for Delhi within five minutes. 
 
 The programme ‘Satyagrah Se Swachhagrah’ is being organized by Union ministry of drinking water and sanitation in which state rural development department is also involved with Jeevika, RDD principal secretary Arvind Kumar Chaudhary told TOI over the phone.
 
 “Mahatma Gandhi had visited Bihar for the first time and held a meeting on April 10, 1917 at Motihari for farmers engaged in forced indigo farming. He later launched an agitation known as Champaran Satyagrah. The programme is being organized to commemorate the occasion,” Chaudhary said adding at least 5,600 swachhagrahis (sanitation volunteers) from across country have started reaching Bihar since April 1 and are engaged in creating awareness among people to construct toilets and avoid defecation in open.
 
 Patna DPRO said an advanced security liaison (ASL) meeting at Patna airport was held on Sunday in which special protection group (SPG) officials and other senior police officials were also present. Patna DM Kumar Ravi presided over the meeting. 
 
 “According to the present schedule, PM will not come out of Patna airport, but a cavalcade will be kept ready for his movement to Raj Bhavan, if needed. The route from Raj Bhavan to airport and IGIMS will be barricaded,” the DPRO said.
 
 Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj said around 2,000 police personnel would be deployed in Patna for the PM’s visit.
 
 
