KANNUR: The district administration here will seek a joint survey of the land on either side of the river at   bordering Kerala and Karnataka, following the objection raised by  , saying that half the river and the land on the other side of the river is theirs and hence the bridge as part of the   (KSTP) road between Thalassery and Valavupara, connecting Kerala and Karnataka, could not be built.

 “Since Karnataka has raised objection saying that the land adjacent to the river is part of   and hence the bridge cannot be built, we have given a letter for a joint survey to their authorities, and we are confident that the problems will be solved very soon,” said district collector  .
 
 When the district collector had met the Karnataka Forest officials, they had said that the bridge is being constructed encroaching nearly 300 meters of their land, which is part of Brahmagiri wild life sanctuary there, and hence the decision to seek permission for a joint survey.
 
 “This road is highly important because it is a major one connecting Kannur airport with Coorg and other areas of Karnataka, so we have to expedite the works,” said the collector.
 
 According to Karnataka authorities, nearly half of the river at Kootupuzha is in their territory, and they also showed a document signed in 1908 in this connection. As per this, Kootupuzha river is the border of Kerala and Karnataka.
 
 However, this has not affected the work of the road and bridge, said  , who said we have documents to establish the bridge is coming up in our territory.
 
 “The work on Kerala side is progressing and in the next few days we will resolve the logjam on the other part, as the DFO there has agreed for a joint survey after the tiger census is completed in Karnataka next week,” he said.
 
 According to Revenue sources here, by denying permission to the bridge work, actually Karnataka wants to assert their right on the land, but our government is yet to take any strong step in this regard.
 
 In this condition, even after a joint survey whether the Karnataka authorities would agree for the construction of the bridge is the matter of concern.
 
 What is even more embarrassing is that nearly three years back, Karnataka Forest officials had allegedly invaded into the Revenue land of Kerala and erected survey stones there, and this has led to the concern that Kerala might lose the right over  , which is a main source of water in the eastern part of the district. Even now no step has been taken to reclaim the land.
 
 
