CHANDIGARH : Jagtar Singh Tara on Thursday confessed in a Chandigarh court that he was involved in the assassination of former chief minister Beant Singh and added he has no regrets about the act.

 Tara submitted a six-page confession letter in the court of additional sessions judge J S Sidhu where he recorded his statements under Section 313 of the CrPC.
 
 Beant Singh was killed in an explosion outside the civil secretariat in Chandigarh on August 31, 1995. Punjab police employee Dilawar Singh had acted as a human bomb in the incident. The police had arrested nine accused and of those, fate of eight has already been decided.
 
 The matter will now come up for hearing on February 7 when rest of his statement would be recorded in the court and the prosecution would ask him questions based on his confession letter.
  
  
 The   counsel also asked him 120 questions related to the assassination.
 
 Tara’s confession letter to the court also mentioned Gurbani, inspirational stories of Sikh gurus and freedom fighters.
 
 Defence counsel Simranjeet Singh said Tara’s letter mentioned that he had been inspired by the Sikh history and tradition before deciding to assassinate the then chief minister. He said Tara mentioned that the Sikh history had taught him not to bear injustice. The circumstances at that time were intolerable when innocent youths were massacred and Beant did not punish the culprits after coming to power, Tara said in his letter.
 
 Tara also said in the letter that he was not afraid of being called a rebel or an anti-national. Tara said the way Udham Singh took revenge for the   massacre and was called a “terrorist” by the colonial British government, the same way he wanted to take revenge for all injustice against innocent youths at that time by the ruling government in Punjab.
 
 Tara along with others had escaped from   jail on January 21, 2004 after digging a 94-foot long and 2.4-foot wide tunnel. He was nabbed from Thailand in January 2015 and his trial is now going on inside the Burail jail.
 
 
