BENGALURU : A proposal by the forest department to build a memorial for senior IFS officer S Manikandan, who was trampled to death by a wild elephant while battling a forest fire in Nagarahole Tiger Reserve on March 3, has stirred a controversy. 

 While many forest officers want the memorial to be located at  , where Manikandan, conservator of forests and director of the reserve, was killed, wildlife lovers say there is no need for such a structure in the tiger reserve.
  
  
 Punati Sridhar, principal chief conservator of forests (head of forest force), said they may build a small memorial at the spot where the officer died or somewhere in its vicinity as a token of respect to him. “It won’t be a big structure for sure. We know it’s a tiger reserve. There are examples of the department staff erecting small memorials like the one in Muthodi forests of   in Chikkamagaluru district,” he added.
 
 However, environmentalists beg to differ. Former member of the state wildlife board, Joseph Hoover, said in a Facebook post: “There is no need for a memorial in a tiger reserve. Some people wanted a memorial for Prince (a tiger) in Bandipur as well. But we need to keep emotions and niceties aside and focus on wildlife conservation. That will be the best respect to the departed souls (sic)”. 
 
 A senior environmentalist, on condition of anonymity, said building a memorial at Tatigundi Kere, which is deep inside the forest, wouldn’t be right. “The forest department is taking a cue from a small memorial built in memory of Hanumanthappa, a forest guard who was killed in 1972. Now, strength of the forest force has increased and we can’t allow memorials whenever such incidents happen,” he added.
 
 Wildlife lovers are rattled by talks among foresters that the elephant which trampled Manikandan to death must be captured or killed. “This is rubbish. The elephant was well within the forest and officials had entered the core area. While the officer’s death was an unfortunate incident, one can’t allow capturing of an elephant which has had no history of such conflicts,” said a wildlife lover. However, C Jayaram, PCCF (wildlife), clarified he hasn’t received a proposal to capture or kill the tusker.
 
 On the occasion of International Day of Forests on Wednesday, a postal cover was released in honour of Manikandan.
 
