CHENNAI: The number of traffic cases being booked under five major offences across the state has registered a sharp fall from 25,100 in February to 13,498 in March. 

 The offences include jumping traffic signals, overloading, drunk driving, speeding and using cellphone while driving.
 
 Traffic policemen admit they are not as stringent as they used to be a month ago. One of the reasons for the 'slowdown', they said, was the concern that someone may record the crackdown on his or her mobile phone and post it on social media in a twisted manner. 
 
 "There have been instances of constables being pulled up for no fault of theirs," said a policeman.
 
 Accidents caused by traffic police trying to stop a fleeing violator have also put these constables on the defensive. 
 
 "Most of the traffic violators are usually bikers. The moment they find they are being chased, they begin zigzagging without caring for the safety of other motorists," said Manikandan who is attached to the   traffic wing. 
 
 "Earlier, our aim was to book most number of cases and show better results. Now, violators are ready to make videos if they are caught. We are scared to even act tough in genuine cases," said Paneerselvam of the   traffic police.
 
 If someone chooses to flee despite being flagged down, traffic policemen now use wireless sets to alert their collegues waiting at the next junction.
 
 "The violators should realise that we book cases not just to earn fine but for the safety of the motorists. We also came down heavily on those policemen who had taken bribe from motorists," said a senior traffic official. "We are conducting training sessions for inspectors and sub-inspectors who are on the field booking cases," he said.
 
 Referring to the Trichy incident where a pregnant woman died after a fall from her husband's bike on being chased by traffic policemen,  , member of the National Road Safety Council, said misdeed of one person should not stop officials from enforcing the road safety rules effectively. In  , nearly four people are killed in road accidents every kilometer annually, he said, adding this was way too high compared to the national average. A senior official from the transport department said effective patrolling by multiple government agencies in the last one year has helped in bringing down the accident rate.
 
 "We are optimistic that the total number of road accidents will come down from 5,800 in 2017 to 4,100 this year, a target fixed by the state government. We are progressing in the right direction as the number of fatalities has reduced by 1,061 in 2017 from17,218 in 2016. But we can’t afford to relax and want to keep up the momentum," the official told TOI on condition of anonymity. 
 
 All the RTOs and police stations were designated as traffic training centres where awareness trainings are conducted. 
 
 The centres have organised special two-day refresher training courses to 50 people involved in multiple road accidents in the last 12 months.
 
 
