NEW DELHI:   on Wednesday expressed displeasure with Delhi government and DDA for not taking steps to carry out an audit of the disabled friendliness of their buildings, despite repeated orders.

 Unhappy with the failure, a bench of acting Chief Justice   and Justice C Hari Shankar asked a specialised organisation to conduct a disability audit of all public buildings and parks owned by DDA.
 
 It asked the petitioner in the case,  , who suffers from a locomotor disability, and his foundation to carry out the audit and also facilitate training of officials of these agencies so that they can be sensitised towards the needs of persons with disabilities and special needs.
 
 “This is not an adversarial litigation. We want the disabled to enjoy access to public/government buildings and parks,” the high court bench stressed, hoping that the national capital will soon be completely  .
 
 The bench directed the petitioner to carry out random inspections where an authority has claimed it has carried out the audit and made necessary modifications to make their buildings more accessible for disabled persons.
 
 During the hearing, HC noted that   too had not carried out a disability audit of its premises, especially its ten interchange stations. It asked standing counsel Pushkar Sood to ensure that the audit is completed within four weeks and listed the matter for hearing on April 19
 
 Meanwhile, in a related development, the central government informed the court that less than 10% of buses run by state road transport undertakings were found to be disabled friendly. In an affidavit, the government gave the data till December 2017 in response to a PIL filed by Nipun Malhotra challenging Delhi government’s move to procure 2,000 standard-floor buses at a cost of Rs 300 crore.
 
 The ministry also said it had introduced a bus body code in 2014 laying down the facilities or provisions, including number of seats, for disabled persons in each bus type or model. It said it was considering a proposal to include provisions for wheelchair-borne persons in the code.
 
 The bench had earlier asked Delhi government to not go ahead with its tender to purchase standard-floor buses for the national capital, saying it would not allow the procurement as it would lead to the violation of the fundamental rights of disabled persons, who would find it difficult to access such vehicles.
 
 
