COIMBATORE:   from Sulur and surrounding areas no longer have to go in search of markets or bargain with middlemen to sell their produce. They have formed a group and set up a sales outlet at Athappa Gounden Pudur near L&T Bypass in the city on Wednesday to sell their farm produce directly to people. 
 
 This comes against the backdrop of the prices of perishable farm produce such as tomatoes touching a low in glut season, forcing farmers to go for distress sales or dump them as waste. Though in such times perishable produce are bought from farmers for very low prices, they are sold for prices several times higher in retail outlets. Farmers say this is because of middlemen commission and transport charges being added to the price. 
  
 Farmers who started the outlet said direct sales will ensure a decent profit margin for them and also bring down the selling price as middlemen will be eliminated. They also said such outlets will connect local farmers with consumers, providing a sustainable business model for farmers. 
  
 The district president of farmers association, A S Babu, said the major cost addition in farm produce was transport cost. “If people travel to Coimbatore from Sulur to buy farm produce, the cost will be significantly higher, as the transport cost and labour cost will be added along with commission for middlemen. Farmers’ outlets will do away with such costs,” Babu said. 
  
 Babu said the price of onions sold by farmers had fallen by five times in the past two months. But big retailers sold the same onions for almost 1.5 to 2 times the price. “If farmers sell it directly, the price would be much lesser,” said Babu. He added that through their outlet they would also give their produce to wholesale sellers. 
  
  treasurer of farmers association C Thangaraj said such an outlet was new to the region. “There have been such efforts in places such as   and Erode,” he said. He added that they saw agriculture as a local market, so they sought to connect farmers and consumers from a locality. 
  
  
