NEW DELHI:   was remanded in one day CBI custody after the agency told a court that he needed to be questioned on former   director Indrani Mukherjea’s “confessional” statement before a magistrate that he had demanded $1 million for allegedly managing FIPB clearance for her ventures.

 
 “Indrani Mukerjea gave a statement under Section 164 CrPC on February 17 that she met Karti at Delhi’s Hyatt hotel where he demanded $1 million for settlement of FIPB violations. It is her confessional statement,” a source said.
 
 Karti was produced before metropolitan magistrate Sumeet Anand as the regular CBI court had risen for the day. The CBI sought Karti’s custody for 15 days to interrogate him in connection with the INX Media case and said he was cooperating with the probe. The agency also said his frequent visits abroad could lead to tampering of evidence.
 
 The court directed the CBI to produce Karti before the CBI court on Thursday.
 
 Appearing for Karti, senior advocates   and Mohit Mathur said it was the “most bizarre” case because their client had already been interrogated for 22 hours. Citing the two occasions — August 23 and 28, 2017 — when Karti was interrogated, the lawyers said he was issued summons twice when he appeared before the agency and answered all their questions.
 
 “After these dates, I have not received a single summons. How is it possible to even allege, let alone prove, that I have not cooperated. You have nothing to ask me after August 28. They (CBI) don’t have any question to ask me or send me summons,” the lawyers said.
 
 Rebutting the CBI’s claim of frequent overseas visits, Singhvi said Karti had given details of his visits abroad. “I went abroad (UK) from June 15 to July 13 last year. I have nothing to fear. The first date (of visit) is before the lookout notice,” he said. Karti travelled to the UK again from December 1 to 10 last year and to the UK and France from February 18 to 28, the court was told. “I have gone under court order. Is it not distortion, misrepresentation (to allege evidence will be tampered with),” the lawyer said.
 
 Quoting a recent Madras HC order, Singhvi said Karti had been allowed by the court to travel and he had not violated any travel condition.
 
 Taking a dig at recent cases where businessmen have left the country and not returned, Singhvi said Karti was not a “Hindustan leaver” but a “returner”.
 
 The CBI, he said, had not filed “a single status report” in the matter. “Where is status report of non-cooperation and tampering of evidence? I have 110% cooperated with the CBI and the  ,” Singhvi stressed.
 
 The CBI counsel called the submissions “false” and said, “He refused to attend CBI summons. He has not complied with conditions.”
 
 
