VADODARA: As the countdown for elections for the 14 seats of M S University’s new syndicate body has begun, eight candidates supported by the ruling saffron group filed their nominations on Wednesday. 

 Five other candidates also filed their candidature for the five seats of the P G Council – election of which will be held on February 27 along with the syndicate polls. 
 
 The 14 seats for which the elections will be held include two seats of deans of faculties, one principal of colleges, six persons who are neither teachers nor employees nor students of the university and five teachers (including one professor and four teachers other than deans, heads of department and principals of colleges).
 
 Those who have filed nominations included professor Arun Pratap, dean of Faculty of Technology and Engineering (FTE) and professor Hemant Mathur, dean of Faculty of Medicine for the two seats of deans. 
 
 While Dr Virendrasinh Kher, principal of Polytechnic College has filed nomination for the one seat in principal category, Dr Ranjan Aiyer from Faculty of Medicine has filed nomination for the one seat in professor’s category. 
 
 Minesh Shah from Padra College, Dr Rajesh Kelkar from Faculty of Performing Arts, Dr Bijaysinh Rathod from Faculty of Medicine and Dr Satyajeet Chaudhari from FTE have filed nominations in teachers category. 
 
 This apart Dr   from FTE, Dr Dipendrasinh Jadeja from Faculty of Arts, Dr Nipul Vara from Faculty of Medicine, professor Satish Pathak from Faculty of Education and Psychology and professor Nilesh Bhatt from Faculty of Science have filed nominations for  .
 
 The ruling group will shortly declare its candidates for the six seats of general category of syndicate, three seats of   and two seats of Board of Extra Mural Studies. 
 
 While those supported by the ruling saffron group have started filing their nominations, the members of the rival group – the ‘sankalan samiti’ – said their candidates will file nominations on February 19 which is the last day of filing nominations. 
 
 The members of the ‘sankalan samiti’ which consists of the  , the RSS, the student outfit – the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad – and the teacher’s outfit – Maharaja Sayajirao Vishvavidyalay Shaikshik Sangh – also held a meeting on Wednesday with a group of senate members to chalk out its strategy for the forthcoming polls. 
 
 
