Manali: Tourists thronging Manali in the summers will have an added attraction as they will get to experience forest life even during the night hours. 
 
 The vast thick deodar forest area will be opened for tourists till late night hours during the peak tourist season, the wildlife department has decided. The move is aimed at achieving dual objectives. First, it will help decongest Manali town which has no space left for vehicles or pedestrians. Secondly, it will give a new experience to tourists visiting the hill town. 
  
 Earlier, the forest area was closed after evening. The wildlife department is investing huge amount to make it a hotspot for tourists. The concept is new in the country and the department feels it is worth spending money. 
  
 Divisional forest officer (wildlife) Tilak Raj Sharma said, “The forest is being illuminated with electric lights. It will be secured with CCTV cameras. A 2-km-long walking trail has been completed for nature walk. Vehicles won’t be allowed here. We are planning to promote bicycling on the trails,” he said. 
  
 As many as 32 CCTV cameras will keep an eye on all activities. The forest area, popularly known as Van Vihar, will remain open till 10pm. Signboards with colourful pictures of birds and animals will give tourists detailed information about the Himalayan species while several other signboards regarding awareness about environment would be installed. The huge area will be connected with a sound system. 
  
 Sharma said employees will keep a watch on all tourist activities through CCTV cameras and will give instructions to tourists through the sound system. 
  
 Forest minister Govind Singh Thakur said the Van Vihar will help decongest the town and offer a new attraction for tourists. “Tourists visit Himachal to see mountains, snow, rivers and tall deodar forests. We have to explore new things to attract tourists and make them happy. Tourists will now enjoy nature walk amid beautifully illuminated forest while listening to Himachali folk music playing on the speakers,” he said. 
  
 Experience of lifetime 
  
 The forest is being illuminated with lights 
  
 A 2-km-long walking trail has been completed for nature walk. 
  
 Vehicles won’t be allowed in the area. 
  
 The area will be connected with a sound system 
  
 The dept plans to promote cycling on the trails 
  
 CCTVs for security 
  
 “As many as 32 CCTV cameras will keep an eye on all activities. The forest area, popularly known as Van Vihar, will remain open till 10pm. Signboards with colourful pictures of birds and animals will give tourists detailed information about the Himalayan species 
  
 Tilak Raj Sharma | divisional forest officer (wildlife) 
  
  
