PUNE: Copywriter   bought his most treasured book ‘Hindu’ by his favourite author   from  , eight years ago.

 "The book was in high demand and readers had to preorder copies. I did not know this. I just walked into Popular Book House casually while I was passing by. Initially, they told me it was out of stock, then they found a copy that had a printing error. The cover of the book was printed upside down. But, it was the first edition of the book and had been signed by the author himself. I did not mind the error so I picked it. Since, then the book store has made a mark in my mind and I have been a regular here," Khaire said.
 
 
 But the store that has not been able to withstand the digital age and what the owner calls, "a dramatic drop in reading habits of people,” will down its shutters by the month-end.
 
 Set up in 1954 near  , the name of the store was reflected by eminent authors   and Vyankatesh Madgulkar frequenting it. It became a popular reading place for famous personalities.
 
 Second generation owner of the book store,  , said, "Deshpande would often visit the store and go back with a collection. He would sit and chat and narrate his humorous stories. Many of the stories that made their way into his books were born at the store and later got printed. He would spend an hour or two at the store and go back. This was in the 1980s."
 
 Madgulkar would pick up books related to wildlife and mountains and nature, said Gadgil. Apart from these personalities, once Bal Thackeray also walked into the store and went back with two to three of books. Gadgil eventually developed good relations with film personalities including Vikram Gokhale as he would also come regularly to the store. Apart from him, Sadashiv Amrapurkar, Hridaynath Mangeshkar, Anuradha Paudwal were also regular visitors.
 
 The store was probably among the first in Pune to have a dedicated shelf for books on computer science. "We had an entire shelf dedicated to computers and related books which expanded to two to three shelves. Then we added books in management and engineering they too were in great demand. The digital age took a toll on all this," Gadgil said.
 
 The store started to stack audio discs and slowly the books were replaced by bottles of perfumes and CDs. The store that initially had a good collection of magazines also reduced with people opting for online subscriptions.
 
 They began a door-step delivery of books in 2000. "At that time, the concept was absurd. and the idea fell through. We had to suspend the service after some time,” Gadgil added.
 
 Big discounts, flash sales and of 'next day delivery' that commerce websites offered were hard to keep up with, Gadgil said. "This was inevitable. We had started to feel the heat some four years ago when walk-ins fell by the day. On weekends, there would be only about 10% of the crowd visiting. We then started making up our minds to down the shutters."
 
 Gadgil had spoken about poor business and drop in walk-ins with veteran actor Vikram Gokhale. “He told us it should be expected and one had to go with the times. The book store had about 2,500 to 3000 books in the recent times. We decided to shut down before the new financial year begins,”he said.
 
