Nagpur: Be prepared to shell out 4% more in your monthly electricity bill. State discom   State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has proposed a hike in the power tariff due to vast gap between revenue collected by the company and expenditure incurred by it.

 MSEDCL has filed a midterm review petition with the   ( ) for increasing the power rates. The hearing date is yet to be finalised.
 
 Two years back, MERC had fixed power tariff for every year according to which rates were supposed to increase by a specific percentage.
 
 However, the increase demanded by MSEDCL, as compared to the MERC approved tariff for 2018-19, is 4 % more for residential use and between 12-16 % more for commercial. According to the company, its expenses in last three years were more than what was approved by the committee.
 
 The extra expenditure incurred by MSEDCL in 2015-16 was Rs5,490 crores whereas it was Rs6,952 crore in 2016-17. While the extra expenditure is expected to be 4,630 crore for 2017-18, MSEDCL stated that in 2018-19, it can be Rs5,433 crore more than the amount approved by MERC.
 
 According to the petition, the extra expenditure was due to purchase of additional power, refund to industries for the extra payment charged in past, non-payment of dues by farmers etc.
 
 This extra expenditure is one of the main reasons for the proposed hike. “MSEDCL has proposed a revision in fixed and energy charges to bridge the revenue gap. Such tariff revision is minimum requirement for MSEDCL to meet the inflation. The tariff revision is necessary for its survival and it is purely to meet the revenue gap,” the petition stated.
 
 With power tariff of the state is already quite high when compared to states like Goa and Chattisgarh, industrialists fear that with more hike, the state industry will not be able to compete with its counterparts from other states. 
 
 MSEDCL has proposed to withdraw most of the incentives like load factor and power factor incentive, which will sharply increase the industrial power tariff.
 
 Around two years ago, the state government had reduced the power tariff for industries in Vidarbha and Marathwada. By withdrawing the incentives, the discount given to industries of both the regions will become meaningless. As per sources, consumers owe over Rs36,000 crore to MSEDCL. “Out of this, farmers owe around Rs25 crore but failure to recover this amount leads to increase in power tariff every year. The state govt does not allow MSEDCL to disconnect the farmers,” they said. 
 
 Pointing out that electricity is provided for free to Telangana farmers, president of   (VIA)   said that the power hike is not justified. “Vidarbha contributes about 50% of power generation in the state and the region should be an attraction for investments. For this, quality and cost of power are very important. If we want to look forward to good investments coming in the region, efficiency of power generation should be improved rather than simply passing the cost of inefficiency on consumers,” added Pande. 
 
 In the petition, MSEDCL has proposed a new tariff category for companies setting-up units under ‘Make in Maharashtra’ policy. Though the power rate for such industries will be lower than present industrial rate, the state government is not providing any subsidy to such industries. 
 
 
