MUMBAI: Sheena Bora murder accused  , hospitalized for a drug overdose recently, told the special trial court on Monday that she feared she would be killed in jail and denied allegations that she had taken the drugs herself.

 “Someone is trying to kill me in prison. I am constantly looking over my shoulder,” said Indrani, dressed in a white salwar kameez, standing in the witness box. She had made a similar claim to reporters while being discharged from  . She added that she wanted to submit her version of events to the court before giving her statement to the IG, prisons.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 On Monday,   said she believed the drugs were mixed in dal served to her in prison on the evening of April 6, hours before she collapsed. Since it was a Friday, she was on a fast and broke it with the dal around 5.20pm. She found it to be unusually spicy and bitter. Soon after, she felt drowsy and disoriented and even had a bath to freshen up.
 
 Indrani pointed out that she was frisked when brought back to jail from court at 4.40pm on that Friday, and noticed that the guard was not outside her cell and her dinner consisting of a bowl of dal, vegetables and salad was kept inside.
 
 Around 7.40pm, a guard gave her some medicine from a piece of paper, after which she has no recollection of what transpired. The next thing she remembers is being told by doctors on April 9 that she was brought unconscious at 11pm three days before.
 
 Indrani alleged that when she was brought back to jail on April 11, a senior jail official told her not to mention that she had the dal as it could cause problems for the prison staff.
 
 She said she feared for her life as this was the second such incident after a drug overdose on October 1, 2015. “I apprehend imminent danger to my life in prison and I may not be lucky to survive an attack on me the third time. I am undergoing emotional and physical distress on account of this vile attack on me with the intent of taking my life,” she said.
 
 Indrani categorically stated she had not consumed anything when brought to court on April 6. She had only spoken to her three lawyers, Sudeep Pasbola, Gunjan Mangla and  , and no family member or friend visited her. She added that she did not have any form of contact with any stranger on that day. In her earlier appearance in court, the judge had advised her not to take any food stuff from strangers.
 
