NAGPUR: For the first time in the country,   ( ) is conducting security audit of 25 tiger reserves, including the four in Vidarbha.

 NTCA has assigned the task of audit to Global Tiger Forum (GTF), an intergovernmental international organization for conservation of tigers in the wild. A team of GTF experts has already started the audit from March 12. It will continue till March 22 in Pench, Tadoba-Andhari, Melghat and Navegaon-Nagzira.
 
 The security audit is an exercise to assess threat levels in a tiger reserve and current strategies available to address those threats. It consists of three exercises — threat assessment, protection assessment and conservation-oriented patrol standards (COPS). 
 
 Talking to TOI, SP Yadav, assistant secretary general of GTF, confirmed the security audit is being done for the first time in India. NTCA has selected 25 reserves from sensitivity and tiger population point of view.
 
 The audit is currently being used widely across the globe by government and NGOs to assess and improve site-specific protection efforts. In context of tiger range countries (TRCs), it is currently being used in Bhutan, Cambodia, Indonesia, Malaysia, China, Thailand, Laos, Vietnam and Russia.
 
 “In India, all important reserves have been taken up. Four teams each headed by senior retired forest officers, one from   (WCCB) and two NGO representatives, are part of the expert teams, which will visit anti-poaching camps and forest ranges and hold discussions with front-line staff, ” Yadav said.
 
 Yadav further says security audit provides an overview from an outside perspective about where the gaps in protection and enforcement services occur. “This allows the reserves management to redress shortfalls and thereby improve protection that it offers to the biodiversity it is mandated to preserve,” he says.
 
 The audit is being done to make field checks whether security plan guidelines are being followed or not as per the protocol. “This will find out gaps in field implementation and help improve all aspects of protection,” the GTF official said.
 
 Tiger reserve officials said the exercise is apart from the management effective evaluation (MEE) which is done once in every four years. The experts will collect map on man-made features, distribution of species, data pertaining to linear projects threatening reserves, electrocution, crop pattern, human habitations, religious structures, poaching activities, check-points among host of other issues.
 
 
