AGARTALA: At least 30 people were injured as   and   supporters clashed at various places across the state ahead of Sunday's crucial election to the Tripura assembly. 

  On Friday evening, CPM cadres allegedly hurled a crude bomb at state BJP vice-president and Sonamura candidate Subal Bhowmik. While BJP alleged that police are not doing enough to stop violence, CPM claimed that their party's workerswere attacked by BJP supporters on Friday and Saturday. 
 
 State BJP president Biplab Kumar Deb on Saturday lodged a complaint with the Election Commission demanding the removal of DGP AK Shukla. 
 
 Chief electoral officer Sriram Taranikanta said he will not comment on the allegation but the EC is committed to ensuring peaceful polling. BJP alleged that its candidates were attacked on Friday night at Khowai, Teliamura, Majlishpur and Mandai. It claimed that 12 of its supporters were injured in the attacks. 
 
 In Belonia, seven BJP workers were injured when they were attacked by CPM supporters, BJP alleged.The convoy of BJP's Gholaghati (ST) candidate was also allegedly attacked.
 
 Police detained five CPM activists in Khowai district for allegedly assaulting 10 villagers who had recently crossed over to BJP from CPM in Ramchandraghat.The villagers had also reportedly attended Prime Minister Narendra Modi's rally on Thursday.
 
 BJP state in-charge Sunil Deodhar said, "All the attacks took place at night and we cannot say what the CPM will do tonight. We have lodged complaints with the EC. Two CPM cadres were arrested with pistols at Mandai, but police have released them." 
 
 An FIR was lodged against CPM leader of Twishindrai in Teliamura constituency, Pratyush Chakraborty, by BJP candidate Kalyani Roy for using abusive language. Police said they are investigating the complaint and proper action will be taken. 
 
  On the other hand, charging the BJP of using money and muscle power to win the election, CPM spokesperson Gautam Das alleged that CPM workers have been at the receiving end of violence inflicted by the saffron party. 
 
  IGP (law and order) KV Sreejesh said, "Police have registered two cases in regard to clashes between supporters of rival parties last night at Gholaghati and Teliamura and arrested three persons." 
 
  However, he said police have no reports of candidates being attacked on Friday. 
 
 Speaking on the incident on Friday when Assam minister Pallab Lochan Das was found in Tripura after the allotted campaign time was over, Sreejesh said the minister was sent back to Assam as per EC guidelines. 
 
 "Exhaustive measures have been taken to ensure free and fair polling. There is no chance of any kind of attempt to create tension tomorrow and voters can vote without any fear," Sreejesh said. Two choppers and an air ambulance is on standby to respond to emergencies, he added. Saying some central paramilitary forces will stay back in the state even after polling, the IGP said, "No troublemaker will be allowed to intimidate or threaten voters. Police will take stringent measures if something of the sort is reported."
 
 Besides state police and Tripura State Rifles jawans, an adequate number of central paramilitary personnel have been deployed across all constituencies. The jawans are patrolling localities and undertaking several confidence-building measures. Section 144 of CrPC has been promulgated in many places to ensure peaceful polling. Security have been stepped up along the India-Bangladesh border.
 
 The EC has appointed special observer RK Pachnanda, director general of ITBP, to oversee the overall security arrangements here. Panchananda arrived here on Friday night and reviewed security deployment issues. 
 
 
