   needed a late winner from   to edge past 10-man   4-3 and register their first at Fatorda in a thrilling contest on Sunday.
 
  When Ferran Corominas and Manuel Lanzarote scored twice in the first session to give FC Goa a 2-1 advantage at the change of ends, it seemed like Goa would keep their unbeaten record intact, just like the last three seasons. Everton Santos had put the visitors on level terms in the first half itself but the match took a dramatic twist when Goa right-back Seriton Fernandes was sent off in the 48th minute and Mumbai later won a penalty which Achille Emana converted.
  
  The visitors then used their numerical advantage with Thiago dos Santos scoring in the 70th minute, and although Coro got Goa back into the game with a fine finish to make it 3-3, it was Balwant Singh’s 86th minute winner that separated the two teams.
  
  Mumbai City had also won at home so it was a sweet double for Alexandre Guimaraes, who admitted this was a “big, big win.”
  
  Mumbai now have 17 points and moved up a place ahead to fifth after 12 matches. Goa – who have conceded 27 goals, the most in the league -- remain in fourth position with 19 points after 11 matches.
  
  Sergio Lobera fielded an unchanged starting 11 that defeated Kerala Blasters last week. FC Goa showed their superiority at the start as Ahmed Jahouh and Eduardo Bedia bossed the midfield.
  
  The home team took the lead just after the half an hour mark. Coro picked up a throw in from Lanzarote, weaved his way in and passed to Mandar Rao Dessai. The winger’s left-footer was blocked by goalkeeper Amrinder Singh but the ball fell back to Coro, who came up with a clinical finish.
  
  Goa were overjoyed but lost concentration quickly. Cameroonian Emana made good use of his physical presence in the box and set up Dos Santos, whose shot on goal deflected off Everton Santos on its way past Laxmikant Kattimani.
  
  Goa had to start all over again and Lobera’s team responded just before the break. Like the earlier matches, it was Brandon Fernandes who displayed his talent with a delightful through ball past Sanju Pradhan. The former international panicked with his back pass and Mandar made good use of his pace to poke the ball towards goal and Lanzarote did the rest.
  
  Goa continued to attack after the change of ends as Mandar and Bedia came close but they suffered a jolt in the 48th minute when Seriton, a regular at left-back for Goa, picked up his second booking and the inevitable red for bringing down Everton.
  
  The Brazilian striker was again the centre of attention as he earned a penalty after going down to a challenge from Mohamed Ali. Emana stepped up and sent Kattimani the wrong way to make it 2-2 in the 54th minute.
  
  Goa showed spirit but were finally torn apart in the 70th minute. Dos Santos started the move, and after Balwant’s close ranger was thwarted by Kattimani, the Brazilian finished off on the rebound to give Mumbai the lead.
  
  Goa fought back again through a clever chip by Coro in the 77th minute but their resolve was broken four minutes from time when Balwant found himself in the right place at the right time to turn home Mandar’s clearance.
