Controversies dogged  's tenure as a minister in   government. But the Bengaluru city development minister always managed to bounce back. George is confident that he will be elected for the third consecutive time from Sarvagnanagar, notwithstanding the rumblings among his constituents that they have seen little in terms of development.

 While the   is fielding a local leader MN Reddy from Sarvagnanagar, JD(S) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) nominees appear no match for George. The seasoned politician though is not taking any chance and is reaching out to his constituents. George spoke to the TOI on his eventful tenure as a minister and why people should vote for him.
 
 
 
 
 
 I think you are alluding to police officer MK Ganapathi's suicide, because of which I quit as home minister before returning as minister of Bengaluru development. I would like to remind you of the clean chit given to me by the CID. Yet, the BJP kept the issue alive and thanks to its efforts the Supreme Court ordered a CBI enquiry. Eight months have passed since the apex court issued the directive, the CBI is yet to file a chargesheet. They have not even summoned me.
 
 
 
 People very well know what the BJP is up to and I need not comment on their unethical politics. But if they think they can intimidate us by unleashing agencies such as the income tax department, they are wrong. I grew up as a student leader and am too strong to be intimidated.
 
 
 
 The welfare schemes envisioned by chief minister Siddaramaiah and their effective implementation is our trump card. People are happy with the development works carried out by our government..
 
 
 
 We had convinced all stakeholders, including the general public and people's representatives on the need for the infrastructure project. Yet, some vested interests aggressively launched a misinformation campaign and we had to shelve the project. When the very project is cancelled where is the question of corruption?
 
 
 
 I am expecting 141 seats for Congress.
 
 
 
 Those are fake surveys. The Congress never commissioned any poll survey. And there is no question of a hung assembly.
 
 
 
 The Congress has given opportunities to all communities. We are happy to work under the leadership of Siddaramaiah and are confident that he will become the chief minister again.
 
