MUMBAI: Struck by a juvenile perched on a signal pole between   and Masjid stations near CSMT around 9.30am, a 23-year-old   fell off a local train and lost several fingers of her left hand and a part of her right foot on Wednesday.

 The brave   managed to roll away from the tracks as a down train bore down on her, but her digits got crushed. She is stable in a hospital but has lost her left little finger and parts of her middle and ring fingers besides a part of the right foot, including the big toe.
 
  
  
 
 The juvenile, without any past criminal record, was picked up within 24 hours based on tip-offs. He had stolen Dravita’s phone and sold it to a housewife living in the slums at Masjid. She too has been arrested.
 
 Figures for the past two years are not available, but in 2015, over 60 cases of pole robberies (fatka) were registered on   and 42 on Western Railway.
 
 Dravita, a final year BCom student from Kalyan who works part-time, was travelling towards CSMT from Kalyan on the Central Railway main line on Wednesday when she got a call. As she came to the exit to get a clearer signal, she was attacked. 
 
 “A 17-year-old had perched on the stepladder of a signal pole, armed with a bamboo stick, waiting to strike commuters standing on the footboard. After Dravita fell, the youth picked up her cellphone, worth Rs 18,000, and ran away,” said DCP (GRP) Samadhan Pawar.
 
 When an injured and disoriented Dravita tried to get up and walk for help, she spotted a train coming towards her and waved at the motorman. He spotted her and applied the brakes, yet her limbs got crushed. “Dravita later told us that she realised she was going to be run over. With great strength, she pushed herself away from the tracks,” said her father Hemant Singh.
 
 The motorman of the down train picked up Dravita and took her to Byculla station, from where cops rushed her to J J Hospital. “We were at home when we got a call from the cops. Dravita had given my cell number to the GRP and told them to call me. We took two-and-a-half hours to reach   by cab. We decided to shift her to Bhatia Hospital, where she underwent a surgery,” he said. Dravita was able to narrate the incident, but could only say the robber was tall.
 
 The CSMT GRP has registered a case of attempt to murder and voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery. “Our team worked overnight to look for the robber,” said senior inspector Sanjay Shinde. Tip-offs by informants and scrutiny of CCTV footage from the road adjacent to the tracks helped the cops trace the juvenile to Sandhurst Road early on Thursday.
 
 He led them to Rukhsar Barguya, a 25-year-old housewife living in the slums of Masjid, who had purchased Dravita’s cellphone. The teen, a resident of Reay Road, was sent to the Dongri observation home.
 
 The attack area does not figure on the GRP list of robbery hotspots. “This case is a wake-up call for law and order agencies. Urgent steps have to be taken to prevent a recurrence and ensure the safety of women commuters,” said Hemant.
 
 Doctors at Bhatia Hospital said Dravita suffered major crush injuries. “She has lost a part of the right foot, including the big toe. She also partially lost the middle and ring fingers of the left hand. We had to completely amputate the little finger as the damage was irreparable,” said Dr Shailesh Ranade, plastic and reconstructive surgeon. Dravita had a huge swelling on her forehead, but a CT scan ruled out any damage to the brain.
 
 A team led by Ranade performed a three-hour surgery late on Wednesday. “We tried to salvage her foot but the injury was too grave. Parts of the foot and the toe were badly crushed. She had lost a lot of skin, fat and muscle. We debrided the dead tissues, which will help arrest infection and hasten recovery. We are trying our best to salvage the remaining foot,” he said. Dravita is likely to undergo another procedure on Saturday.
 
 
