GHAZIABAD: The family of 18-year-old Farhana, who was shot dead on NH-58 in a   village hours after her wedding last Friday night, has alleged the murder could have been carried out by a youth to whom she was supposed to get married before a   dispute led to parting of ways.

 Relatives said her mother had discovered that Farhana was in a relationship with the man from the same village they lived in, Nahal, and had initiated talks with his family for marriage. But the youth’s family allegedly rejected the proposal, apparently after coming to know that the financial status of Farhana’s family wasn’t strong enough to bring along a fat dowry.
  
  
 The allegation comes against the backdrop of Meerut police probing if a spurned lover shot Farhana. Two youths from Nahal were detained on Sunday, but police have not revealed their identities. 
 
 One of Farhana’s uncles claimed they had spoken to roadside stall owners who claimed to have seen the murder take place and learnt that a youth had interacted with Farhana for around 10 minutes before shooting her. “He forced her husband and his relatives out of the car and drove it 20 metres ahead. He then spoke to her for around 10 minutes before shooting her in the chest,” said Haji Farooq.
 
 At least four assailants had waylaid the car of Farhana and her husband on NH-58 in Daurala on Friday and shot her, a murder that was initially thought to be the fallout of a robbery attempt. But Farhana’s family subsequently questioned the robbery motive, pointing out only she was targeted even though she did not carry enough cash with her.
 
 “Farhana’s mother had found that her daughter had developed a fondness for a local youth, who was a mechanic. She approached his family, but they rejected the proposal after coming to know about Farhana’s financial status,” a relative said. Farhana’s mother had apparently asked the youth not to call her daughter any more. “But he was adamant. He had threatened he would not let Farahana get married to anyone else,” the relative added.
 
 Asked what took Farhana’s family so long to speak about the possibility of the village youth being involved, they said they feared retribution at the hands of his relatives as they are “quite influential”.
 
 Minutes before her death, Farooq said, Farhana had called her mother on the phone but could not utter a word. “It is not at all a case of loot. There is a bigger conspiracy behind my daughter’s death,” said Farman, Farhana’s father.
 
 Meerut police probing the murder case have said a   could be involved in the attack. “As of now, it comes across as revenge of a jilted lover or a case of robbery. Several teams have been pressed into action to work it out on priority,” Prashant Kumar, additional director general (Meerut zone), had said on Sunday.
 
 
