NEW DELHI: The   has agreed before the Delhi high court to pay minimum dues owed to lending banks by Reliance Infrastructure’s (Rinfra) subsidiary   so that the latter’s accounts are not declared non-performing assets.

 Following the undertaking, Justice Vibhu Bakhru in a recent order asked   to appoint an officer who will visit all lending banks to settle the immediate amount the private company owes the banks for the  .
 
 DMRC, which has to pay Rs 5,164.79 crore to  's (Rinfra) subsidiary DAMEPL as per an arbitral award, came to a consensus with the private firm over immediate payment.
 
 In an interim plea, DAMEPL claimed before HC it has to pay over Rs 1,882 crore to the banks to prevent its accounts with them from being categorised as NPAs. It said already some of the accounts with a few banks have been declared NPA and minimum amount needs to be injected to get the categorisation removed.
 
 According to DAMEPL's plea, the 11 banks to whom immediate payments have to be made are — Axis Bank, UCO Bank, Punjab and Sind Bank, Andhra Bank, Central Bank of India, Dena Bank, Allahabad Bank, Canara Bank, Bank of India, IIFC UK and Canara Bank London.
 
 The interim plea was raised by the company in its petition seeking enforcement of an an arbitral award of Rs 5,164.79 crore, including interest of over Rs 2,000 crore, granted in its favour by a tribunal in connection with the Airport Express premium corridor.
 
 The award was upheld by the high court which on March 6 had given DMRC four weeks’ time to pay the amount.
 
 DMRC, on the other hand, countered the claim of DAMEPL and maintained that the immediate need of the company to service the debt was only around Rs 186.76 crore and not Rs 1,882 crore as claimed by it.
 
 Taking note of the stand taken by DMRC, the court directed it to send its officials to all the banks to ascertain “the immediate amount required to avoid the petitioner's (DAMEPL) account with the bank concerned to be classified as a NPA and if the account has already been classified as such, the minimum amount necessary to be paid to thebank for the account to be removed from the category of the NPA”.
 
 “DMRC shall ensure that the amounts so ascertained are paid to the credit of the petitioner on or before March 28,” the court added.
 
 On March 6, while dismissing DMRC’s plea against the Arbitral Tribunal's May, 2017 order asking it to make payments to DAMEPL, the court had allowed a separate plea of the Rinfra subsidiary for an early payment of 75% of the arbitral award in its favour.
 
 According to the DAMEPL’s earlier plea, the concession agreement was signed by the two parties on August 25, 2008. Under the agreement, DMRC was to carry out the civil works, excluding at the depot, and the balance, including the project system works, were to be executed by DAMEPL.
 
 The   was commissioned on February, 2011 after an investment of Rs 2,885 crore, funded by DAMEPL’s promoters’ fund, banks and financial institutions.
 
 
