NEW DELHI: Their  , the alarm set for 3am, the Nagpals were all set to leave for Mussoorie early on Friday morning. Up in the hills, friends and relatives awaited them for their participation at a   there. Instead, the day brought them news that the family of four had been   to death in their house in northwest Delhi’s   after a fire broke out.

 Tragically, Rakesh Nagpal and his wife, Tina, and their children, Himanshu and Shreya, died just hours of a planned departure from Delhi. Relatives of Rakesh, a businessman, told TOI that the quartet had been quite excited about the trip, particularly three-year-old Shreya, for whom it would have been her first outside the city.
 
 Vinesh, the deceased’s cousin, recalled Rakesh’s young brother narrating to him how he had called the family a number of times between 2.45am and 3.15am, the first a few minutes after the blaze started around2.40am. “Ankur also called Tina, but no one answered his calls. He got worried and decided to go to his brother’s house,” said Vinesh. “As he was approaching, he saw a crowd in front of the building. What he saw next shocked him. The entire house was engulfed in flames and people were calling out for Rakesh and his family.”
 
 Ankur phoned other relatives, who soon reached the site of the blaze. As they gathered, firemen pulled out the bodies of the Nagpal family. The fire fighters had found the bodies lying in different locations in the first-floor house.
 
 Akash Khurana, Tina’s brother, said that he last had a word with his sister a few hours before he received news about her death. Barely able to speak, he mumbled about being the closest to her among Tina’s siblings and how he spoke to her without fail every day. “I did not imagine that would be be my last conversation with her,” Khurana sobbed, remembering his phone call some hours earlier.
 
 The Nagpals were a close-knit lot, said family friend Vikas Dalmiya. “Shreya had recently been admitted to a nursery school and Rakesh constantly talked about the plans he had for his two kids and how he would let them live the lives they chose to,” said Dalmiya. “I wish things hadn’t ended so horribly for the family.”
 
 
