NEW DELHI: An additional   in the  , who was handling revenue, finance, advertisement, parking and IT, has alleged that “huge corruption” is plaguing the functioning of the corporation. She has claimed that vested interests have ensured that “huge financial misdeeds and draining of public funds” are hushed up for the benefit of a few while the rest of the employees are not getting their salaries and retirement benefits on time.

 The 1989 batch IRS (custom) officer, Renu Jagdev, made these allegations in a   she wrote a day after being served an order for her repatriation to the union finance ministry, her parent cadre. She has alleged that the corporation's commissioner was exerting undue pressure on her.
 
 “The complaint is false, baseless and mischievous. The matters will require detailed examination. The instances (of wrongdoings) mentioned in the letter do not relate to my tenure. I joined in September 2017,” said commissioner Madhup Vyas. “The allegations seems like an attempt of a disgruntled employee trying to portray herself as a whistleblower to hang on to the deputation assignment.” Vyas asked why she didn’t raise the issues during her nine-and-a-half-year tenure. However, he said the cases would be examined for suitable action.
 
 In the letter she shot off to Delhi chief secretary, secretary union urban development, mayor and standing committee chairperson, Jagdev flagged alleged wrongdoings involving the ownership of a 95-acre plot at Khyber Pass, valued at Rs 15,000 crore. She also mentioned the payment of Rs 110cr compensation for the acquisition of a land for the Rani Jhansi flyover. “Files were therefore referred to the vigilance department in May 2016, and on my pursuing the same, I was divested of the charge of this department in March 2018 and the acting chief vigilance officer was also divested of his charge,” Jagdev wrote. Vyas reacted: “This can be investigated but not a single paisa has been released in the Rani Jhansi acquisition matter.”
 
 The officer also raised the issue of the corporation acquiring a piece of land in Rani Bagh on which allegedly a corporation school and park existed. The acquisition involved an amount of Rs 16 crore. “Ultimately, the matter was referred to CBI and a preliminary inquiry was placed before the high court pointing out lapses,” Jagdev wrote in the letter. 
 
 Jagdev had developed strong differences with the commissioner on various issues and was recently repatriated to her parent cadre. She then expressed the fear that adverse entries may be made in her annual performance appraisal report and has prayed for steps to protect her.
 
 Vyas pointed out that “she served in the civic body from 2005 to 2011, and in second term she came on a one-year deputation in 2014. Her term from 2015 to 2017 was approved late by the house in 2018. In March, the house issued directions to immediately repatriate her to her parent cadre.” He said a proposal to retain Jagdev sent to the Mayor earlier this month was not approved following which her repatriation order was issued.
 
 
