Most of us are adept at ignoring the piles of garbage we often come across all around us — be it the road side, the gullies, or other open spaces. But it bothered 47-year-old  ,  , so much, that ever since she moved to Chennai with her family, she’s been doing her bit to clean the city. So, one fine morning, if you notice a foreigner picking up trash at the   beach, don’t stand still and watch her or ignore, instead, go join her! 
 
  
 Virginie moved to Chennai in 2011, with her daughters, Asha and Saran, and husband Filiep De Zutter, who works with a seaport dredging company. She has been bothered by the dirt and garbage she comes across almost everywhere in the city. She couldn’t ignore the morning scenes of open defecation on the beach either, or the sight of children playing amidst garbage and filth, families living comfortably surrounded by trash…. “I had two options,” she says, “I could either ignore it and go about life, or do something about it.” She chose to do something, and that’s how, today, her project ‘Namma Beach, Namma Chennai’ has flourished and united many volunteers from all over the city. Anyone who values the necessity of living in a clean, garbage free atmosphere, is welcome to join, she says.
  
 “Your country is so colourful with diverse culture, traditions, languages, costumes, food and what not! But it breaks my heart when I see so much garbage. And, it’s not just India, it’s the same with every country these days because we are producing so much non bio-degradable waste. Earlier, we didn’t have so much of plastic in our lives, but now everything is made of plastic. We have less space to live as more space is taken up by garbage,” Virginie rues. 
 A photographer by profession, Virginie also held an exhibition-cum-sale of her photos clicked all over India, showing how people and garbage co-exist in our nation! Virginie says she has been a professional photographer since 1991, and has travelled across the UK, West Africa, Middle East and Asia. “My photographs speak the beauty of reality, and that’s why I called this exhibition, ‘The Small Things That Matter (To Me)’,” she explains.
 
 Since her husband has always been with marine companies, they have always lived close to the sea, and the ocean automatically became a part of their lives. With the NBNC initiative, Virginie is teaching children and young people the importance of caring for the environment and how their life will be impacted if they don’t live in a clean space. Every morning, she goes to the beach with two friends — one from Germany and the other, a Chennaiite, and together, they start cleaning the Injambakkam, Akkarai and the Uthandi beaches. “It’s really strange that many people are surprised when they see me dragging a trash bag, collecting garbage. They ask me why I bother as it’s going to be same the next morning! I ask, ‘Don’t you clean your teeth every day or do you not wash your clothes to wear them again? Imagine what will happen if you stop cleaning your teeth!’ The same goes with our surroundings — and it beats me how we cannot be bothered about the stench from the garbage!”
 
  But all this did not happen overnight. Virginie began her project by cleaning her neighbourhood first. She was lucky enough to get connected with like-minded neighbours, who even adopted the NBNC since she couldn’t have it registered. “The associations in Bharathi Avenue, Seshadri Avenue and VGP Avenue in Injambakkam came forward to help me with the registration of our initiative. The name was suggested by an Indian student, who also helped me to put up a Facebook page. Initially, wherever I found garbage, I’d take pictures and meet the corporation officials, and request them to take strict action. When nothing much happened, I decided to do what I could from my side,” says Virginie, and adds, “Now, the Sholinganallur Corporation provides me dustbins and helps by regularly collecting garbage.”
 
 Virginie has been involved in nature conservation since she was a little girl. At present, she has over 250 volunteers in Chennai who are school and college students, apart from people from different walks of life. Together, they have also set up libraries in government schools, empowered the single mothers of Nandri Trust, Mahabalipuram, to stitch reusable cloth bags that are sold in Chennai and Belgium. 
  
  ‘Operation Ice Cream’ is another initiative that she has been successfully running with the help of school children. “The environmental student team of the American International School of Chennai organised this project with NBNC and the Christian Advent School, too, joined us later. We made an agreement with the ice cream sellers — they were to explain to their customers that the wrappers needed to be kept in the designated bins. The students are given an ice cream for every full bag of garbage they collect. This has brought fishermen’s children, local vendors, police officers, beach visitors and also the Chennai Corporation, together. The corporation staff collect the bags of garbage at the end of the activity,” explains Virginie. 
 
 Other activities that her projects focus on are teaching how to make sanitary napkins to government school children as well as other self-help groups. They also build and maintain hand wash areas and toilets in nearby government schools. Virginie is also now constructing toilets in individual houses among the lower income families who do not have access to toilets in their homes. “Through the CSR activity of my husband’s company, I’ve received some funds; I also have some money that I’ve been saving by selling my photographs, and taking classes. Right now, I have money for building only 25 toilets and we should be done in another four months. I know what I am doing is very little, but I believe it’s better than not doing anything,” she smiles.
 
 -Purnima.Sah@timesgroup.com
 
 
