HYDERABAD: Telangana Drug Control Administration (DCA)’s crackdown on errant companies has resulted in various courts in the state convicting six drug companies and their managements based on five cases filed by the drug controller in January.

 Pangea Pharma, Brand Win Enterprises and Herbal Plus of Hyderabad, Andhra Chemicals of Vijayawada, Nucleus Biosciences of Ahmedabad as well as   of Himachal Pradesh were imposed fines and/or awarded imprisonment for selling magic remedies, drugs not of standard quality and for violating the drug price control.
 
 In one case, two city-based firms selling unlicenced herbal oil for removal of unwanted body hair were convicted by the Nampally court and fined Rs 40,000 each with one month’s imprisonment in case of default.
 
  joint director   said in the case of hair removal oil, a consumer lodged a complaint following which DCA’s drug inspector filed a complaint against Herbal Plus of Motinagar, an individual K Shalini of AS Rao Nagar and Brand Win Enterprises of Madhuranagar. “The third ACMM court convicted the trio for selling a product with no licence number,” Kailasam said.
 
 A junior first class magistrate (JFCM) court at Narayanpet convicted Nucleus Biosciences’ managing director Vishal Parmar and slapped a fine of Rs 8,000, and six months imprisonment in case of default, under the Drugs and Magic Remedies Act, for selling magic remedy capsules.
 
 In a case filed by the   drug inspector, the second additional JFCM court at Eluru slapped a fine of Rs 60,000 each and three months imprisonment on three members of Andhra Chemicals management for selling ‘Synomol’, a paracetamol syrup that failed to meet standards.
 
 The case filed by the Mahbubnagar drug inspector saw the Narayanpet JFCM court convict Pangea Pharma’s managing director   for selling drugs not of standard quality with imprisonment of up to three years and a fine of Rs 10,000. “If the government lab analysis finds adrug has failed even in one parameter, a prosecution is launched,” Kailasam explained.
 
 In a case filed by the Nizamabad drug inspector, the court convicted Scott Edil Pharmacia and its promoters with a Rs 45,000 fine or imprisonment of six months in case of default, for violation of drug price control for Citra tablets.
 
