MUMBAI: The race to take over hospitals chain   witnessed hectic activity on Tuesday with two suitors raising their offer prices for the company. The   offices’ joint bid was increased up to Rs 176 per share, while the Malaysia-headquartered   raised its price to Rs 175 per share, the Gurgaon-based company informed the exchanges. Each of the bids is valid till May 15.

 
 Two other suitors for Fortis — the original bidder   and   — have bid Rs 160 per share and Rs 165 apiece, respectively.
 
 The Munjals of Hero Enterprise and Burmans of Dabur said that they were ready to infuse Rs 1,800 crore in Fortis Healthcare through a two-stage deal, up from Rs 1,500 crore earlier. In the first stage through a preferential offer, they plan to infuse Rs 800 crore at Rs 167 per share, or a price that’s higher under Sebi rules. After that, they would infuse another Rs 1,000 crore into the company by subscribing to warrants at Rs 176 per share, or a price that’s higher under Sebi rules. 
  
  
 
 On Monday, the Fortis Healthcare stock closed 1% down at Rs 152 on the BSE.The Munjals and Burmans also want to have three directors on Fortis Healthcare’s board, up from two under their earlier bid. The joint bidders also plan to sell off diagnostics chain   by divesting Fortis’ stake in the company. Subsequently, Fortis will use the proceeds to buy out the assets that RHT Health Trust, a Singapore-listed entity in which the former promoters of Fortis — brothers Malvinder and Shivinder Singh — hold major stakes. 
 
 TOI reported on April 20 that  , one of the country’s top diagnostics chains, was eyeing acquisition of SRL in a spin-off deal. If the SRL sale does not fructify, or more funds are required to buy out RHT’s interests in Fortis, there would be a rights offer, the bid document said. If recommended by the board, they said the whole deal would close in about four months and the money infused into the company would be used to pay employees’ dues, repayment of loans and also payment to creditors.
 
 The other bidder, IHH, said that it was willing to infuse funds into the company at Rs 175 per share, compared to Rs 160 it had offered earlier. Under the earlier offer, it had proposed to infuse Rs 650 crore in the first stage and then another Rs 3,350 crore after due diligence.
 
 The Fortis board is expected to meet on May 10 to take a decision on the bids the company has received.
 
 
