Chennai: With the high court verdict in the MLAs’ disqualification case expected anytime, the ruling EPS-OPS camp has approached many rebel MLAs for truce, claims   Dhinakaran camp. The   government lacks enough support in the 234-member assembly to cross the magic figure of 118. The stability of the government rests on the support of the expelled 18 members - who have joined hands with Dhinakaran - if the court sets aside their disqualification.

 Two days after Dhinakaran laid down conditions – oust six ministers and choose one among the disqualified MLAs as chief minister - for merger, his supporter and Andipatti MLA Thanga Tamilselvan has listed out the names of the people who they want to be out of the government. Chief minister   and his deputy O Panneerselvam top that list. Others are ministers P Thangamani, S P Velumani, D Jayakumar and K C Veeramani. A senior leader in the ruling camp confirmed that they had approached the rebel MLAs, but added there was not much headway in talks. “Discussions are on with the rebel MLAs,” a highly placed source in the EPS camp said.
 
 
 
 This marks a complete turnaround from EPS’ earlier stand that there was no scope for any compromise with the rebels. Even as the ruling party is hell bent on projecting the stability of the government, the awaited court order keeps the camp in jitters. Thanga Tamilselvan said, “OPS became CM because of TTV and EPS succeeded later due to Chinnamma. They should not be there at all. The three Manis and Jayakumar also should go. We want the   government to continue”. Dhinakaran camp, meanwhile, is elated over the support he is getting from cadres during the state-wide tour.
 
 Thanga Tamilselvan said the crisis would continue if the ruling camp did not yield to TTV’s demands. Former MP and a senior leader in the erstwhile   camp, K C   said the government was prepared to face any eventuality. “We are confident of winning the legal battle,” he said.
 
 Electricity minister Thangamani, a close associate of EPS, is furious about the demand to oust him. “Dhinakaran was expelled by Amma. Do you know he was told not to go to Parliament even when he was MP? Who is he to expel us? What moral ground does he have? We are appointees of Amma and are her true loyalists. We know what to do,” the minister told TOI. He alleged that Thanga Tamilselvan, in a complaint to the party leadership, had blamed Dhinakaran for his losing the 2009 election from Theni. “That is why he (Thanga Tamilselvan) was not included in the (EPS) cabinet, when OPS quit and Theni district was unrepresented,” Thangamani said.
 
 
