CHENNAI: Before 38-year-old   from Nepal compromised security at IOB’s   branch and let a gang of burglars enter, for five years he worked to gain the confidence of bank officials and customers. Investigating officers say there may be two or more suspects, including Shabi Lal, in the heist.

 The IOB didn’t assign a separate security guard to man the bank and it’s ATM. He stayed at one of the rooms provided at the first floor of the same commercial complex. Shabi Lal accessed his room through an entrance at one side of the building while others used the front entrance. Police said Shabi Lal’s room has a small window. 
 
 Shabi Lal chose a fourth Saturday to target the bank, as the officials kept a lot of currencies in their safe as the financial year is ending soon. 
 
 Shabi Lal procured a gas cylinder and attached two cutter nozzles to the cylinder. Police said Shabi Lal first disconnected the electricity connection at the complex. He then cut the iron grille at his window and entered the room close to his closet. He then walked through the open door and came down to the bank’s main hall through a small stair case fixed the rear extreme of the bank.
 
 Then he allowed his associates to sneak into the bank and with the help of them he broke two cupboards using the gas-cutter machine but found only heaps of documents. He and his accomplices then went to the lockers. They targeted a big one – one-foot high and one-foot deep. 
 
 Police said, there were two bags of silver ornaments and some antique valuables in the locker. The burglars took some silver utensils and ornaments leaving behind the other valuables distorted by the heat of the cutter. Then they targeted a smaller locker and found four small bags.
 
 Police found one gold dollar on the floor close to the locker and two ear studs also strewn on the floor inside the locker room. 
 
 The bank officials said the burglars had managed to break open only two lockers and took away meagre amount of valuables kept inside. The locker numbers 259 and 654 belonged to two customers   from Chennai and   from Abu Dhabi.
 
 
