Nagpur: The two-hour two-act play ‘Ganga Jamuna’ had the audience on the edge. Staged at the Vasantrao Deshpande hall on Sunday afternoon, the play had the rustic and over-the-top feel of a ‘zadi patti’ creation, popular in the rural belt of Vidarbha. Presented by Shri Venkatesh Natya Mandal, Navargaon, a theatre group popular in the region for over a century, it dealt with women related issues like child molestation, trafficking and spoke of women empowerment.

 The story revolves around a male dominated family where the men — be it the patriarch, the brother or the brother-in-law — have their way. The women are delegated to the sidelines with no control on their lives. 
 
 The plot resonates with the audience, especially women in rural areas. The story continues to show the exploitation of a mentally challenged girl who is raped, married off to her brother-in-law and ends up in a brothel. How she is rescued by her brother forms the crux of the story. 
 
 The play has been written and directed by well-known theatre person Sadanand Borkar. All the artists gave a stirring performance. Notable were those of Manjusha Joshi who plays mother to two unfortunate girls and Divya Joshi who plays the part of a mentally challenged girl. Borkar as the wily son-in-law of the family is riveting in his act.
 
 “The play is based on a real incident that occurred in the red light area of Nagpur, Ganga Jamuna,” says Sanjay Bharde who organized the maiden show of this bush theatre in the city in aid of Amrapali Utkarsh Sangh, Nagpur.
 
 “There have been 45 shows of the play in Chandrapur and Gadchiroli belt. But since the story happened in Nagpur, I thought it would be relevant to hold a show here,” he added.
 
 All the actors in the play are untrained rural people engaged in farming and have been trained by Borkar. “I retained the play as it is for this show except that in ‘zadi patti’ actors sing numerous songs. Here I used only two songs as background music,” says Borkar and adds that the response from the audience was more than he expected. 
 
 
