CHANDIGARH: As per the manpower audit committee report of Panjab  , around Rs 4.84 crore will be saved annually if new employees are not recruited and certain non-teaching posts are reduced. The committee recommended reducing several posts in different departments and suggested incorporating some additional posts. The first phase of the manpower audit of the non-teaching employees has been completed and the report will be tabled in the board of finance (BoF) meeting on March 1. The report states that there will be no retrenchment of existing staff. However, no new recruitments of Class C cadre posts will be made.

 
 While deliberating on the proposal, the manager of the PU press proposed that in the re-organization of the PU press that the posts which are based on old technology need to be abolished. The committee has given its nod to the proposal and further recommended that 49 posts are not required in the PU press. Moreover, the proposal also suggests creation of additional posts with requisite qualifications and experience to operate in the wake of advanced technology. The committee has suggested creation of additional 13 posts regarding this. Consequently, by reducing 49 posts and creating 13 new posts, the estimated reduction in expenses will amount to around Rs 91.57 lakh.
 
 Moreover, the panel resolved that a common ministerial secretariat should be established for the departments based on proximity.
 
 The committee suggested that a list of departments which have less than 100 students and are in same building should be prepared so that minimum workforce can be deployed in such departments to save money.
 
 The committee recommended that since   has six students and   department has 55 students, both these wings should be merged and provided with one senior assistant, one steno-typist/clerk, one peon and one cleaner. The amalgamation of staff of both these departments will save the varsity around Rs 15 lakh annually, states the manpower audit committee report.
 
 The panel after reviewing the proposal of re-designation of trades under C class posts recommended that all the Class C cadre posts should be placed under diminishing cadres and no new recruitment should be made.
 
 There will be no retrenchment of existing staff, stated the manpower audit committee report. The committee has further recommended that the work may be got done through outsourcing some services in future. The existing staff may be deputed in other new departments from here requirements are being received.
 
 The committee has recommended outsourcing ambulance, transport vehicles, housekeeping work, maintenance and security services.
 
 The committee has calculated that outsourcing ambulance services will help the University avoid expenses on salary of three drivers and outsourcing vehicles will help save salary of 23 drivers.
 
