NEW DELHI: Defence minister   today dismissed a suggestion that the Rs 59,000 crore contract to purchase 36 French Rafale fighters is akin to the   scam of the 1990s in which several leaders of the then ruling Congress party, including Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, were accused of receiving kickbacks from  , for winning a bid to supply India with 155mm field howitzer.
 
 
 "Do not even compare   with Bofors, there is no scam here," the minister was quoted saying by ANI.
 
  
  
 The BJP-led government at the Centre has been accused by the opposition parties of orchestrating a scam in 2016 when the government signed a defence deal with the French government to purchase 36 jets in fly-away condition.
 
 The deal was signed by cancelling an initial plan to purchase 126 fighter jets from France.
 
 The opposition, led by the Congress, accused the government of buying the jets at an exaggerated price, sans the transfer of technology clause.
 
 The allegations have been dismissed as baseless by the government.
 
 Last month, the defence minister offered a point-by-point rebuttal to Congress's allegations and hit out at the Congress for "throwing" tantrums over the Rafale deal.
 
 Stating that she had 'happily released all the answers on purchase of equipment, weaponry and certain helicopters," she said when some helicopters were deployed in friendly countries during UPA regime, then ministers did not disclose information citing national security concerns.
 
 The Defence Minister said Rafale had been considered along with Eurofighter Typhoon under the UPA regime and there was enough data in public domain where within three years between 2011 to early 2014, the UPA's quoted prices about Rafale had undergone nearly 300 per cent increase. She said the process was almost completed and the bids were opened and at the stage of buying, the then "Raksha Mantri thought probably there was something wrong and asked for the details."
 
 Today, the defence minister refuted the suggestions equating the Rafale deal to Bofors scam which was termed as India's biggest political scandal that happened between India and Sweden in 1980s and 1990s. It majorly involved politicians from the Congress party, primarily implicating the then Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi and several people from the Swedish government. These people were accused of receiving kickbacks from a bank called Bofors AB, which is majorly financed by the Wallenberg family's Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken. It was done to win a bid to supply India's 155 mm field howitzer, a short gun for firing shells on high trajectories at low velocities. 
 
 The scale of the corruption was so devastating that it directly led to the defeat of the Gandhi's Congress party in the 1989 general elections. Bofors paid Rs 640 million in the form of kickbacks to top Indian politicians and important defense officials.
 
