HYDERABAD: After being in power for four years and having launched several schemes to woo practically every community, the TRS government in   is hoping that K   will be re-elected as chief minister in the coming days and take the salute on the State Formation Day celebrations in June 2019. 

 From farmers, minorities, women to government employees, the TRS government has provided doles for everyone. Officials said in the four years, as many as 300 decisions were taken and schemes announced to benefit every section of society, especially in the welfare sector.
 
 As soon as the TRS came into power, KCR waived off agriculture loans up to 1 lakh taken by each farmer, and the fulfillment of the poll promise benefited 35 lakh farmers. In the past one year, the state government has come up with two major schemes. One is purification of land records and regularization of agriculture land under Sadabainama, by issuing new pattadar passbooks. The other was grant of 8,000 per acre for kharif and rabi seasons to each farmer as investment subsidy. While the first installment for kharif is being disbursed now, the next is due in October. For this, the state government is likely to spend 12,000 crore this year. 
 
 In January this year, the state government started giving 24x7 power supply to the agriculture sector. From August, the government is gearing up for another major  , the 5 lakh insurance cover for farmers. 
 
 Last year, sheep distribution to the people from Golla community was a major scheme and the chief minister has claimed that this scheme had created wealth of 1,000 crore in a year. Enhancement of pension amount was made three years ago, while pension to single women, lymphatic fylariasis patients,   and other welfare schemes were also announced. 
 
 Since minorities votes are crucial, 12% reservations to minorities in the recruitment and education were announced but the bill is with the Centre. Reservations to STs was proposed to be enhanced to 10% but that too is yet to materialise. For the seven lakh government employees in all departments, TRS government announced setting up of a pay revision commission. 
 
 Political pundits say the TRS government has partially succeeded in keeping people of every section happy. "We are truly on our way to achieving  ," said a CMO official. 
 
 
