Nagpur: The delay in transfer of 6.4 acre Krazy Castle amusement park land belonging to Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) to MahaMetro has the officials of Metro agency worried. They have dashed off a letter to NIT asking it to transfer the land by May 1. However, going by NIT’s current stand, this deadline seems impossible. Earlier, NIT had agreed to transfer the park land to MahaMetro as soon as possible. Now, it wants Metro to compensate the concessionaire Haldiram Foods first. Haldiram has sought a compensation of Rs162 crore from NIT. The state government has formed a three-member committee under divisional commissioner Anoop Kumar to fix the compensation amount. A senior MahaMetro official said that NIT chairman Deepak Mhaisekar had told them that he would put up the proposal before the Trust board and after it got passed a handing over letter would be issued. “Mhaisekar did not say a word about compensation at that time,” he added.  Prashant Bhandarkar, executive officer of NIT, however, took a different stand. “We will transfer the land when the compensation is decided by the Anoop Kumar committee,” he told TOI. The decision to hand over the entire Krazy Castle land to MahaMetro was taken by union transport minister Nitin Gadkari. In the meeting held on February 27, the proposal to compensate Haldiram before handing over of the land did not come up for discussion. Metro was told to provide space in the food court of new amusement park to Haldiram. The Anoop Kumar committee comprising district collector and municipal commissioner is yet to meet even though it was constituted in the first week of March. “Let the new municipal commissioner take charge. We will fix the compensation in next fifteen to twenty days,” Kumar told TOI. Meanwhile, MahaMetro has started work on the parking lot of Krazy Castle. “Soon we will require the actual park land for constructing the viaduct of Subhash Nagar to Sitabuldi stretch. Any delay in handing over this land will delay this stretch,” the Metro official said. There would have been no need for demolishing Krazy Castle had Haldiram accepted MahaMetro’s proposal of shifting the rides at its own cost. Now Metro wants to raze the existing amusement park and build a new one in its place. An international competition will be held for designing this new park. Global tenders will be then floated for constructing and operating the park. Haldiram will be offered the food court under first right to refusal policy.