NEW DELHI: The finance minister in his   speech admitted that the   for the current year would be missed and the goal for next year too will be not quite as stringent as envisaged. What the speech didn’t mention was that the effective revenue deficit in the current year is now estimated to be nearly twice as large as the budgeted amount — Rs 2.5 lakh crore compared to Rs 1.3 lakh crore.

 That is far more worrying. The fiscal deficit measures the extent to which the government has to borrow to fund its expenditure, but it does not distinguish between routine expenditure on things like salaries and investment for creating future assets. The effective revenue deficit, on the other hand, looks at the gap between routine spending and routine income from things like taxes and dividends from PSUs. In short, it shows the extent to which the government is spending beyond its means.
 
 So how did this double from the budgeted amount? Revenue receipts actually turned out about Rs 10,300 crore lower than budgeted while revenue expenditure was nearly Rs 1,07,400 crore higher than had been estimated a year ago.
 
 If the   was contained at 3.5% of   rather than the targeted 3.2%, it was only because the   in the revised estimates is about 12% lower than what the Budget had provided for. Thus, the government spent about Rs 36,400 crore less on creating future assets than it had promised to.
 
 For the coming year, the Budget targets revenue expenditure of Rs 21.4 lakh crore and capital expenditure of just over Rs 3 lakh crore.
 
 These figures are both around 10% higher than the revised estimates for the current year, but interestingly, the revenue expenditure target is almost 17% higher than in last year’s Budget while the capital expenditure figure is 3% lower than last year. Thus, while the FM’s speech may have suggested that the government is investing in the future like never before, the figures tell a different story.
 
 A closer look at the numbers also throws up some puzzling questions. The  , the FM said, would be the world’s largest such scheme covering an estimated 50 crore people for Rs 5 lakh a year. The outlay provided on health certainly cannot be enough to cover it. So where in the Budget is the money provided for this?
 
 Similarly, will the massive hike in MSPs suggested in the speech be possible with the food subsidy increasing by just as much as it did last year? It is learnt that these have not been provided for yet, except to a very minor extent. North Block is apparenyl confident that the increased cess and long-term capital gains tax will raise more than budgeted and hence fund these schemes.
 
 But then, how meaningful are the numbers presented on Thursday? After all, the Budget is more than just a series of policy announcements. It’s ultimately primarily an account-keeping exercise.
 
