Monsoon isn’t even here yet, but a slew of roads in Hyderabad already wear a weather beaten look. Tired of driving on pot-hole ridden roads that seem like craters on the moon, a bunch of irked citizens came up with a novel idea in a bid to wake the authorities up from their slumber. On Monday morning, a few residents of   gathered at the stretch between AOC Centre and Marredpally, and filled up the potholes themselves. But they didn’t stop at that — they went on to affix placards that read ‘Nirmala Sitharaman-KTR road’ in every single pothole. 

 “We named it ‘KTR-Nirmala Sitharaman road’ because both GHMC and SCB only react when either an Ivanka or the defence minister comes to the city,” says Krishank Manne, a volunteer who helped fix the potholes. 
 This is not the first time that citizens have used sarcasm to get the government’s attention. In the recent past, the stretch between St John’s and Sangeeth Cross Roads was labelled ‘KTR-Ivanka Road’ while yet another pot-holed stretch on the KPHB-Hafeezpet road was named ‘KTR IT Park Road’ with the rider ‘Caution: Safety at your Risk’. Ouch! 
 
 The protesters say shaming the government and municipality is the only option left. “They are all active on FB and Twitter, so we want them to see this and feel a pinch of shame,” adds Krishank.
 
 The residents of Marredpally fume that the roads have been in a pathetic state since last summer. “When we complained about the bad roads last year, they said the monsoons are here and we should wait for it to end. The rains came and went, but no repair work or relaying of road happened. now, we are on the verge of expecting the next monsoon. we have no option, but to get out on the streets and do this,” says an exasperated Archa KS, resident of West Maredpally. 
 
 Meanwhile, the group has become a social media sensation overnight. What’s more, they’ve even been getting repeated requests from various parts of the city where denizens want their bad roads named after   as well! “In Hyderabad it is easier to find a bad road than a good one. Our next stop is the road near Railway Hospital in Mettuguda,” says Krishank. 
 Is KTR listening?
 
