GREATER NOIDA: The   on Thursday said it would examine all sanctioned projects to check if any developer had violated the approved building plans, days after conducting a financial   of 28 builders in its area. A committee headed by additional CEO Amarnath Upadhyay has been tasked with conducting the examination, which is supposed to be completed in a month.

 The   will examine all ongoing projects with approved building maps in the city. “If any builder is found to have violated the building bylaws and approved plans on the ground, we will initiate action, including cancelling of sanctioned maps and even the land allotment,” said Arun Vir Singh, CEO, YEIDA.
 
 According to officials, the move has been initiated in the interest of buyers who have been affected by long delays of projects.
 
 “We have been receiving complaints from homebuyers that several builders have violated the layout plans and are not building according to the approved maps,” said Singh. “These complaints include allegations that builders have constructed in green areas, not left the required set back, or not kept the mandatory parking area as per the sanctioned building plans. Some builders have also allegedly constructed more units than the number sanctioned, besides constructing on additional Floor Area Ratio, thereby creating a problem for the residents. All allegations will be looked into,” he said.
 
 “Our teams will go out and inspect each project to check for any   and layout deviation. If any violation comes to light, we will take the strictest action against the concerned developer,” the CEO said. “No one will be spared. If the final report from the committee shows violations, builders will be issued notices to explain and if we do not get satisfactory responses, we will cancel the approval of building plans. We will also not shy away from cancelling the land allotments,” he added.
 
 Singh further said all the 28 projects of the builders in the YEIDA would also be scrutinised for violations. These 28 projects involve about 28,000 residential units, he said.
 
 
