NEW DELHI:   president   on Sunday cited a   report to accuse the government of unleashing “terror” through goods and services tax and said this was now “globally acclaimed”.

 
 The comment prompted an immediate response from I&B minister Smriti Irani, who rebutted the Congress president and accused him of “selectively” quoting from the study to “berate India’s progress”.
 
 “Modiji, the terror of   is now globally acclaimed. The World Bank says it’s the second highest in the world and one of the most complex,” Rahul tweeted on Sunday afternoon.
 
 Less than an hour later, Irani responded using the social media platform. “Rahul Gandhi's hatred for India is astonishing. When World Bank hailed India's rise in Ease of Doing Business rankings, he rubbished the report. Now selectively quotes   report to berate India's progress!” Then, she shared a link to a story, which suggested that the media “cherry-picked” only a few lines from the World Bank report released last week.
 
 The World Bank’s latest   had cited GST as one of the key reform moves of the government which it said would harmonise tax rates, formalise the economy and expand the tax base. 
 
 It also complimented the GST Council, a forum comprising Union and state finance ministers where decisions are taken through consensus, as “an innovative and integrative body that formulates a common policy and administrative framework”.
 
 It then went on to compare India’s GST regime, which kicked in last July, with those in 115 countries and said that tax rates in the Indian GST system were among the highest in the world. The 28% slab was the second highest among the sample of countries, which had GST or VAT. 
 
 The report also said that 49 countries had a single rate, 28 used two rates, and only five, including India had four rates with Italy, Luxembourg, Pakistan and Ghana being the others.
 
 “Adarniya Rahul Gandhiji, if you are free from the world’s longest coronation exercise, I request you to read this article (on cherry picking) and enlighten yourself,” Irani said in another tweet.
 
