Mohali: The members of the Purab Premium Apartment Dwellers Association have threatened to go on hunger strike if the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority ( ) do not fulfill their demands as promised by the authority.

 On Wednesday, the Gmada officials failed to turn up for a dialogue at the meeting called by the association members at the meeting hall of the apartments in Sector 88 and left the residents were left fuming.
 
 The dwellers who waited for over an hour decided that they will give an ultimatum to Gmada, failing which the dwellers will go no hunger protest against the authority.
 
 On the other hand, the Gmada officials were tight-lipped over the issue and avoided giving a reason to have a dialogue with the residents of the apartments, despite of agreeing for the meeting.
 
 The apartment dwellers alleged that Gmada has missed the deadline to repair the faults in the Purab Premium Apartments. It was announced that all the defects will be removed by September end, 2016 after directions were received from Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. However, no action has been taken, said general secretary of the association Harbhajan Singh.
 
 Despite instructions from CM, Gmada did not fulfill the demands and the dwellers are feeling cheated now, complained the treasurer of the association Parwinder Singh.
 
 Gmada had also got the structural stability test conducted of the towers, which was positive.
 
 Purab Premium Apartment Dwellers Association has been fighting for their rights from past many years due to faulty structure and workmanship. Harbhajan said, “The project, which was to come up on 117 acres, has actually been built on only 37 acres at a prime location having been sold to private builder at a hefty price of about Rs 200 crore. Gmada not only failed to complete the project in time but quality has also been compromised.”
 
 After a commotion, Gmada started the restoration of the apartments in Mohali. The Purab Premium towers are under major repairs after protests were held by the residents against poor workmanship at the apartments.
 
 
