PATNA:The growing proximity between JD(U) leader and   CM   and LJP chief and Union minister   has raised speculation of a possible front, primarily to put pressure on BJP, ahead of the 2019 general elections.

 
 Taking into account the recent communal clashes and BJP's "aggressive" stand and RJD's offensive against the Bihar government on law and order, JD(U) and LJP fear that they may get alienated from Muslims and Dalits. Now that Jitan Ram Manjhi has already quit NDA and joined the RJD-led "grand-alliance" and a possible entry of Union minister Upendra Kushwaha-led RLSP is on the cards, Nitish and Paswan fear that RJD would broaden its base in its fight against BJP.
 
 LJP sources said Paswan and Nitish have met at least four times in the past six months. Nitish, along with Kushwaha, is scheduled to attend the national convention of Dalit Sena, LJP's backbone, in Patna on April 14. They say the CM may announce the inclusion of Paswans in the Mahadalit category.
 
 "When Nitish created Mahadalit category, he kept Paswans out of it, instead put them in Dalit category. But the equation between Paswan and Nitish seems to have changed recently. We've been told that Nitish may include Paswans in Mahadalit category at the April 14 convention," a senior LJP functionary told TOIon Sunday.
 
 Paswan fears a dent in his Dalit vote bank, especially after the recent communal clashes, sources said. In a presser, he also expressed concern over a "few BJP leaders" creating an impression that NDA was against certain sections of society.
 
 Kushwaha has been given an "open invitation" by RJD to join the grand-alliance. He fuelled speculation by meeting   last Thursday at AIIMS in New Delhi where the RJD chief has been undergoing treatment.
 
 BJP, however, refuted reports of Paswan trying form a separate front. A senior BJP functionary said deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi had been invited by Paswan in the April 14 convention of Dalit Sena. "Sushil Modi has also been invited and he is most likely to attend it as well, but that does not mean that they are going to form a separate front. People like Sushil Modi would live and die being in BJP," he said.
 
 RJD claimed that Paswan was going to join the grandalliance. "Talks are being held internally between RJD and Paswan and he would soon join the grand-alliance. Paswan is feeling suffocated in NDA. When I had said that Manjhi may join us, BJP denied that. But my prediction became reality and the same would happen in case of Paswan," RJD national vicepresident Raghuvansh Prasad Singh said.
 
