
  In 2006, Arunachalam Muruganantham invented a machine to manufacture low-cost sanitary napkins that changed the lives of thousands of rural Indian women. Nine years later, in 2015, the West Bengal government tried to revolutionise menstrual hygiene in the state by installing   dispensers on university and college campuses. And now, when Arunachalam’s work is back in the limelight, thanks to Akshay Kumar’s Padman, we visited college campuses around Kolkata to assess the state of the installed dispensers. And we discovered that the revolution has fizzled out. Either most of the dispensers are in dire need of maintenance or the students are not even aware about the existence of the machines on their campus. Here’s the lowdown.
 
  
 
 
 
  It began in May 2015, after the state higher education department issued a circular to all universities to instal sanitary pad vending machines. The initiative was taken so that students could get easy access to sanitary napkins and create general awareness of menstrual hygiene. All state universities followed the directive by the end of 2016.
 Following that, the colleges affiliated to those universities started showing interest and by 2017, as many as 25 institutions in Kolkata and more than 150 colleges in West Bengal installed such vending machines.
  
 
 
  On visiting some of these institutions, we found that most dispensers are either not working or lying unnoticed, with most students unaware about their existence. Basanti Devi College, for instance, bought two machines in 2016. One was installed in the girls’ common room on the ground floor and another, in the second-floor toilet. After a couple of months, renovation work started at the college and both the machines are now lying unused. “The students are informed about this facility during the orientation programme. And the demand for the pads is also very good. However, as the college is being renovated, the machines are not in use,” a professor told us.
 Jadavpur University, too, installed two machines in 2016. The one in the girls’ hostel has been lying unused for months. Many boarders told us that they weren’t even aware that the dispenser existed! Bidisha Chanda, who has been living in the hostel for the past 18 months, said, “The closest pharmacy is outside campus and in times of emergency, we have to go outside. Most girls would have used the dispenser had they known about it.”
 The situation in Asutosh College is similar. While a machine was installed in the humanities building in 2017 and is in working condition, the girl students don’t even know about it. “I’ve heard that there is a machine, but don’t know where,” said Agamoni Chakraborty, a student, adding that they were not briefed about the facility during the orientation programme. Besides, according to others, the pads are stored in a loft in an extremely unhygienic way.
  
  
  
 
 
  While some colleges like Shri Shikshayatan and Presidency University have shown genuine interest in the cause, some institutions bought the dispensers just ahead of a National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) inspection and forgot about them later.
 At Dinabandhu Andrews College, a special room was made inside the girl’s common room for the dispenser last year — just ahead of an NAAC team visit. Snigdha Saha, the general secretary of the college, told us “The room is kept locked and opened only when a student needs to use the machine.” We found the room extremely filthy and the machine unplugged!
 Similarly, Asutosh College bought the machine last year before an NAAC team visit. Since the entire thing was done in a hurry, the students were not properly informed about it.
 
 
 
 
 When we spoke to college authorities about these issues, we heard two major complaints. First was the quality of the pads. They said the quality is so   that students do not use them. Secondly, the after-sales service by the company providing them is very poor. So, when a machine malfunctions, the company doesn’t come to repair it even after repeated requests.
 Rajat Roy, the dean of students at Jadavpur University, said that in comparison to the pads available in the market, the products from the vending machines are of inferior quality. “Most students prefer high quality products. But some students, especially those from the humble backgrounds, use these pads for its lower cost,” he added.
 
  . 
  
 
 
 
  We brought these complaints to Robust Solution, a Kolkata-based company that has sold and installed most of these machines. Raunak Sarawgi, the owner, said “These pads are supposed to be used in an emergency. One can use it to control the situation, and once she gets to her comfort zone, she can change it. That’s why the cost of these pads is only fraction of branded products — `2 per piece,” he added.
 Raunak, however, did not agree with the complaint regarding the after-sales service. He said starting from 2015, whenever they got a complaint; they addressed it within a day or two. “Whenever we get a call about a machine malfunctioning, we ask the college to send us a written complaint via email or text. We have records of all complaints starting from 2015. So, if a college is claiming that our after-sales service is poor, they are welcome to challenge us,” he added. 
 Besides, he said that the company is very serious about its products and services and tha'ts why each of the vending machines has Raunak's personal number and all the important mail id printed on them. "In case of any problem, the college authority can contact me directly and lodge the complaint. It is, however, a different issue that many colleges do not do it," he said. 
 
 
 
 Of the two machines installed in the campus, the one in the PG Arts building is used quite often. However, many students are not aware of the other   installed in the girls’ hostel. The tiny room where the machine is installed is basically a store room filled with junk. (photo below)
 
  Rajat Roy, the dean of students, told us that though both the machines are in good condition, the one in the girls’ hostel is not in use. “The hostel canteen is responsible for refilling the machine and they have the pads. But, the students prefer to buy the pads over the counter directly from the canteen workers,” he said.
 
  
 
  
  One machine was bought and installed is the girls’ common room in 2017. A separate room was made for the purpose. At present, the room is kept locked and the vending machine is switched off. 
 
 The principal, Somnath Mukhopadhyay, said female students come prepared and they usually do not use the machine. “If someone needs a pad, we open the room for her,” he added. 
 
  
 
  
  It has two dispensers which are lying unused owing to renovation work. One is in the girls’ common room, which has now been converted into the gatekeeper’s living qaurters and hence inaccessible to students. And the other is kept amidst junk in the chemistry lab. 
 
 Principal Indrila Guha agreed that the machines could have been reinstalled elsewhere, but they haven’t done so. Once the renovation work is over, they will be reinstalled.
  
 
 
 As many as five machines were bought and installed on five different campuses under CU, inluding the College Street campus. Lagnajita Chakraborty, the general secretary of the 
 university, said most of the machines stopped working a few months after installation. Recently, the dispenser at Ballygunge Science College was repaired. 
 
 One of the professors agreed that there were problems maintaining the machine. But, from this month, the university has started taking measures to make them operational again.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  The machine is in perfect condition but seldom used. Also, the pads are stored in very unhygienic conditions in the humanities building. Moststudents are unaware of its location, or even its existence. 
 
 Vice-principal Apurba Roy did not comment even after repeated requests.
 
  
 
 
 One machine was installed last year in the girls’ common room and it is in good working condition. The students told us the pads are in high demand. However, sometimes, the dispenser malfunctions. 
 
 A professor told us that students demanded two more dispensers last year, but the authorities refused to purchase them.
 
 
