KOCHI: As incessant rain continues to lash Ernakulam, sea erosion has intensified along coastal villages of the district, including Chellanam and Vypeen. The sea water has started to seep into roads and houses at Chellanam and   in Vypeen. According to meteorological department, the district received 3cm of rainfall on Monday.

 Dalfin T A of   said that sea incursion has flooded around 150 houses on the Companypady-Velankanni-Bazaar stretch.
 
 “We have been asking authorities concerned to build a seawall and groyne (pulimuttu) across the Chellanam stretch for the past few years. But nothing has happened exceptsomefake promisesto gain political mileage,” said Dalfin.
 
 The West Kochi Theeradesha Samrakshana Samithi has called for a hartal on Tuesday in Chellanam to Fort Kochi coastal area to protest the inordinate delay in building seawalls. Residents of Chellanam staged a sit-in protest at the coastal highway stretch on Monday.
 
 “Last week, fisheries minister   said that the construction of seawall would be completed within five months. Seawalls are required at Velankanni Bazaar, Companypady, Vachakkal and Puthenthode Fishing Gap. We are tired of this lackadaisical attitude of authorities concerned,” said Jinson T, a resident of Chellanam.
 
 Eachtimethesea turns rough, there seems to be no respite from miseries for people, who are slowly recovering from the shock that gripped them during the Ockhi cyclone.
 
 “We are bearing the brunt of sea erosions especially in the monsoon. For the past 20 years, we have been asking authorities to repair the seawalls along the stretches that havebeen damaged andflattened by the waves. Sea erosion is increasingly high in this area,whichhascausedsevere damage to seawalls. We thought at least after the Ockhi cyclone, authorities will do as promised but they cheated us this time too,” said Philomena Louis, who lives near the Velankanni Matha Church, Maruvakkad, Chellanam.
 
 In Veliyathanparambu in Vypeen, water has seeped into around 50 houses following heavy sea erosion on Monday. Despite administrative sanction being granted to build seawalls at   and Veliyathanparambu in Nayarambalam, Vypeen, around four months ago, the residentssaidthatthe authorities concerned have not done anything in this regard.
 
 Sheela Devi, deputy collector, district disaster management authority,saidthedistrict administration has made all the arrangements to carry out flood-relief activities at Chellanam and Vypeen. She said that the flood-relief camps and shelter homes have also been opened in the coastal areas.
 
