GURUGRAM: The   on Tuesday directed   to allot alternative plots to 72 oustees — all GPA and SPA holders — within two weeks, clearing the decks for the development authority to demolish the remaining structures coming in the alignment of Dwarka Expressway.

 Hearing a petition filed by Puran Singh, the high court ordered the Huda administrator of Gurugram to hold a meeting with the property owners with general power of attorney (GPA) and special power of attorney (SPA) by next Tuesday (June 5), and complete the process of allotment within another week thereafter (by June 12).
 
  
  
 
 Even, Huda, in its affidavit, claimed it had no objection to giving alternative plots to the GPA and SPA oustees to ensure speedy completion of the expressway project. Once these oustees get possession of the alternative plots, Huda can remove the remaining structures — currently only around 40 are left — and hand over the land to NHAI to complete the expressway, which is already delayed by more than a decade. Last Saturday, Huda teams had gone to raze 68 buildings coming in the way of the expressway in   but had to stall the drive midway after the high court issued a stay order. However, by the time the officials received the order, around 31 houses were already demolished.
 
 “The court has directed us to conduct a meeting with oustees (with GPA, SPA) and give them alternative plots within a week of the meeting. We will comply with the HC orders,” said Huda administrator  . However, sources said even after giving the possession of the plots, Huda would have to give the oustees a few months more to move out of the area.
 
 On January 25, 2008, the Haryana government had issued a notification under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1984, for the expressway project. However, some oustees moved court, challenging the land acquisition. After a long-drawn legal battle, finally the final terms of settlement (FTS) were worked out on May 18, 2015, under the supervision of the high court to strike a deal between Huda and petitioners. Accordingly, Huda conducted a draw of lot for allotment of plots to all oustees, including property owners with registry as well as GPA and SPA, in July-August 2016. Subsequently, Huda gave possession of plots to the people with registry. 
 
 But the allotment to GPA, SPA holders was stayed by HC following a petition filed in 2016, alleging irregularities in the process. Rishi Raj Rana, who has been leading the GPA, SPA holders in their protest against Huda, said, “As per the final terms of settlement, the authorities were supposed to give alternative plots to all the oustees. Finally, the HC has upheld our demand.” Houses belonging to oustees with registry have already been vacated and demolished.
 
 
