NAGPUR: Four months after TOI highlighted the plight of students of   ( ), Nagpur University has frozen all admissions to the college. Documents with TOI show vice chancellor SP Kane’s office has made it clear that the college wouldn’t be allowed to admit any students for forthcoming academic session (2018-19) due to a slew of deficiencies, including absence of even a single teacher, and infrastructure.

 The VC’s letter, addressed to pro-VC Pramod Yeole and registrar Puran Meshram and others, directs them to convey NU’s decision to the college authorities with the warning that if admissions were made, those would be at the risk of the management. Kane further asked his subordinates to publish an advertisement in various newspapers in this regard.
 
 The pro-VC, heading the Exam Section, and Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director Neeraj Khaty have also been told not to accept enrolment and examinations forms of CIIMC students now onwards.
 
 CIIMC director Sunil Mishra refused to comment, stating that he hadn’t receive any formal communication from   in this regard. He, however, clarified that NU can’t take any such action since the issue was sub-judice.
 
 Though the VC too refused to comment on the issue, the documents with TOI mention students had lodged a complaint with the university about CIIMC running without teachers, not even contributory ones, as reported by TOI on December 9. On the basis of these complaints, the VC later constituted a committee under retired judge of industrial court BC Chandrikapure to probe the issue.
 
 The VC’s letter further cites that NU’s College Section confirmed to the probe panel the absence of lecturers. Similar observations were recorded by NU’s Local Enquiry Committee (LEC) which visited CIIMC premises at Ashirwad Talkies.
 
 “Though the affiliation granted to CIIMC is till next academic session, NU had decided to stop admissions to all its courses on the basis of student complaints and reports from its College Section and LEC. Without a single teacher, the students wouldn’t be able to complete their quota of 180 days in an academic year, as per the UGC guidelines. It would subsequently lead to their loss,” Kane said in the note.
 
 TOI had reported how the students approached VC with a demand to lodge police complaint against Mishra, accusing him of not handing over transfer certificates (TCs), and not depositing their exam fees with NU, which led to their results and degrees being withheld. Not only had they failed to get admission in postgraduate courses, but also lost jobs in the absence of valid degree certificates.
 
 The distressed students had charged Mishra with levying different fees for same course, which was not in consonance with those prescribed by NU. They had attached receipts of fee charged with their representation of demands.
 
 
