Pune: The Pune rural police on Wednesday produced the Indian Reserve Battalion ( )  , Sanjay Shinde (36), before a magisterial court in the city to avoid a law and order situation in  , a day after he gunned down three men.

 Chief judicial magistrate (CJM) Satyasheela Katare sent Sanjay in police custody till January 29. He allegedly killed Gopal Shinde (32), Parshuram Pawar (30), both residents of Vadar Galli, and Anil Jadhav of Kurkumbh Road. They died on the spot in Daund.
 
 Lawyer Hemant Zanjad, who appeared for Sanjay, told TOI, “The rural police’s local crime branch had reports that Sanjay might be attacked on the court premises at Daund following tension caused by the incident. This prompted the rural police to seek Pune district court’s permission and produce him before the CJM here.”
 
 Pune rural crime branch’s inspector Dayanand Gawade moved a remand report stating the police had seized the firearm used in the crime, but Sanjay’s custodial remand was required to establish the source from where he procured it. The report stated that he fired 12 rounds and the investigators needed to verify details of each bullet fired.
 
 The report stated Sanjay used a scooter without a registration number plate while fleeing. The police needed to establish the owner of this scooter and probe if any other person was involved in the crime, the report added.
 
 Zanjad said, “We opposed the police custody remand on the grounds that the firearm used in the crime was a service revolver and its details could be secured from the service book. Similarly, the details of bullets could also be secured from the government records. The police have seized the two-wheeler. So, there was no requirement for his remand in police custody.”
 
 After hearing the either side, the court passed the order remanding Sanjay in police custody.
 
 Additional superintendent of police (Baramati region) Sandip Pakhale said, “Sanjay eliminated the three civilians in an extreme rage. He told the police that he had borrowed money from someone and lent it to one of the deceased persons on interest. The lender was demanding his money back from Sanjay. In turn, Sanjay started demanding money from the deceased person, but the latter refused. Besides the borrowing issues, there are issues related to money lending business.”
 
 Pakhale said Sanjay collected a service pistol from the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), where he was posted, and gunned down the three persons at two different spots. One of the deceased, Anil Jadhav, had slapped Sanjay’s mother a few days ago and he decided to kill Jadhav, Pakhale said. After the shootings, Sanjay fled but was caught at Supa village on Pune-Ahmednagar highway in the evening. 
 
 
