BATHINDA: The inauguration of two   already being used by commuters have become bone of contention for Punjab’   government and the Shiromani Akali Dal(SAD). Both Punjab government and SAD have arranged separate rallies before the inauguration of national highways Bathinda-Zirakpur and Bathinda-Amritsar on Monday by union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari. 

 Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh will accompany Gadkari in inaugurating the highways and addressing a rally at sports stadium in thermal colony whereas SAD chief Sukhbir Badal has arranged separate rally at a marriage palace on   road with Gadkari. Amarinder will also accompany Gadkari to Bhikhi town of Mansa to lay foundation of a highway project. Interestingly Punjab government has arranged two choppers, one for Amarinder and another will be provided to Gadkari to ferry him at various places. Till few days ago only Sukhbir had planned the rally with Gadkari and it is on Sunday that state government planned the visit of Amarinder Singh. Sources said Congress not wanted SAD to take credit of starting of highways in Punjab during the Congress rule.
 
 The foundation stones of these two highways were laid by Gadkai at Bathinda on January 22, 2015 during Parkash Singh Badal government. Sukhbir then had projected these projects as big achievement of the SAD-BJP government.
 
 Hectic activity was sdeen on both the camps of Congress and SAD on Sunday with preparations at full swing. Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Badal told people about inaugurations and ally of Punjab government whereas SAD Chief Sukhbi Badal took stock of the rally at a marriage palace. He asked party leaders to ensure big rush at the rally.
 
 As per the schedule obtained by TOI, Gadkai after reaching Bathinda at 11 AM by a special flight from Nagpur will directly reach at SAD rally at a marriage palace and will reach at 12.15 PM at thermal colony to inaugurate the projects in the presence of Amarinder Singh and union food processing minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal and will address rally government rally. He will fly in Punjab government chopper for Bhikhi where he will lay foundation stone of national highway project with Amarinder Singh and address a public meeting. From there he will fly to village Kaljharani near village Badal in state government chopper to have lunch with Badals. As per another schedule of state government, Amarinder will be using another chopper for arriving at Bathinda and flying to Bhikhi.
 
 Punjab Public Works Department (PWD)minister Vijay Inder Singla said that “216.35 kilometres long Zirakpur-Bathinda National Highway 7 has been laid at the cost of Rs. 3188.70 crore and 174.64 kilometres long Amritsar-Bathinda National Highway 54 has been laid at the cost of Rs. 2894 crore”. Union minister Nitin Gadkarui and Captain Amainder Singh will inaugurate these on Monday. 
 
 SAD leader and former Bathinda MLA Sarup Chand Singla said that “it is only SAD which brought these highways and these were completed due to sincere efforts of Harsimrat Kaur Badal and Sukhbir Badal. It is now that Congress wanted to take credit but people know the truth”.
 
 Bathinda Deputy Commissioner Diprava Lakra said “the inauguration has been arranged by state government and CM has confirmed his participation”.
 
 
