By: 
 

 There is a hype and buzz on reforms in vacancy allocation and rationalization of tenure of   Commanders, which is being touted as transformative change. While the approach is laudable, it is not a panacea or a silver bullet to take care of all ills. Simply put, there was a dichotomy with regard to minimum tenures stipulated for Commanders-in-Chief (C-in-C), also referred to as Army Commanders in the Army.   had varying minimum tenures ranging from 24 months in the Army, 18 in the Air   and 12 in the Navy. This restriction translates into minimum residual service for elevation to this coveted appointment, which has now been revised to eighteen months instead of two years for the Army.
 
 The number of such C-in-C appointments don’t co-relate to scope of responsibility and aspirations of respective officer cadres. The Army has seven for approximately 48,000 officers, the Air Force has the same number for 12,000 and the Navy has three slots for 9,000. Air Force has one appointment in   earmarked for technical cadres while the Army with the largest technical work force has none. Due to turf hardening, it is now a complicated issue yet in the long term, there is indeed a valid case for rationalization in these apex appointments. Uniformity is desirable but it is amusing to keep a tab on switch between winter and summer dress in Delhi with the each Service promulgating its own dates. In the same Integrated Defence Staff HQ, a visiting foreign delegation gets a feel of our diversity, ironically enough through different patterns of uniform reflecting disparate understanding of seasons by the Services.
 
 
 Besides their respective vice-chiefs, the Services also share three rotational appointments — Chief of Integrated Staff (CISC), Andaman & Nicobar Command (ANC) and Strategic Forces Command (SFC). However, there is no clarity on ANC, which by some accounts has been made a naval billet. The magnitude of confusion is such that appointment of CISC was tenanted by an officiating incumbent for eight odd months in 2016 and at one stage the Army had officiating incumbents in three commands.
 
 As an Army Commander with just the mandated 24 months tenure, I found myself as the only link of continuity with three Chiefs of Staff, two to three rotations in Corps and Divisional Commanders and key staff appointments. Longer tenures are most desirable, which the Navy has managed to achieve.  , despite having minimum stipulated tenure of 12 months has Chiefs having full three year tenures and some retiring before stipulated age of 62 years. It has also projected Commanders-in-Chief, who have had four to five years tenures. Hence, tenure stipulation itself is not a solution. The strength of system is seen in steady state and is a function of well thought out long-term policies driven by organizational needs.
 
 The projected change would achieve some uniformity and make larger panel of meritorious senior officers eligible but solution lies in deep selection, i.e. selecting competent Generals and grooming them well. Merit criteria for appointing Army Commanders is not recommended as it is fraught with risks of politicization and lobbying. Proposed step would cut down tenures of Army Commanders for initial three to four cycles till we achieve desired tenures. The crux of reform lies in reduction of vacancies to increase tenures, which is being decried by those in promotion zone and vying for these limited coveted slots. While it is conceded that reform will be painful especially for immediate batches but the present situation is a net outcome of our weakness in tinkering with vacancies to accommodate current batches at the expense of those in pipeline. We can draw some comfort from old maxim, “no pain-no gain”.
 
 Cadre management in senior ranks is based on basic understanding of simple principle of command funnel and queuing. The Army has a command funnel of “09-13-44” , corresponding to number of Army-Corps-Divisional Commanders. Simply stated, an allocation of 44 vacancies, every year would generate one year tenure for Divisional Commanders, subject to having equal or more staff appointments in kitty for those past the funnel or in queue, which is unlikely to be a problem.
 
 The issue becomes a bit more complex due to varying batch sizes, inter se batch profile (strong and weak batches) and dates of birth. A mathematical projection can generate predicted career progression profile with different variables, provided we desist from frequent tinkering driven by parochial regimental and other such ‘jugaad’ type of interventions. Another maxim, “extra fairness to one is definitely at cost to some body” needs to be always kept in mind while dispensing favours or even justice.
 
 It is recommended that the proposed changes be allowed to run their full course and painful remedy be applied in toto. It may be worthwhile to take up other reforms in appraisal, placement and selection policies and most importantly redressing angst amongst officers from technical and logistics stream by just and fair allocation of vacancies. Whenever other reforms are attempted, there is a need to look at transformative approach and some disruptive out of box thinking, which can be best done by external domain experts/agencies aided by in-house experts known for innovative thinking.
 
 The writer is former Army commander, Western Command
 
