LUCKNOW: Now,   will be must for students in class VI, IX and XI in government schools in Uttar Pradesh. 

 In a meeting with district inspectors of schools (DIOS) through video-conferencing on Friday, deputy chief minister   instructed them to link student's Aadhaar number at the time of admission. 
 
 The decision is aimed at ensuring greater transparency and to increase overall efficiency by putting a check on fake registrations in schools.
 
 In the video-conferencing at the start of new academic session on Friday, deputy CM Sharma, who also holds secondary education and higher education portfolios, said, "Ensure that classes are held regularly and minimum 220 days of teaching takes place. Besides , attendance of teachers should be 100%." 
 
 
 
 
 Asking officials to focus on the 148 model schools officially functional from April 16, Sharma said, there should be 100% enrolment in these schools, and that they should not lack basic facilities like furniture, drinking water.
 
 He said that 37 new   will be opened in minority-dominated areas under the government’s   and 851 posts of teachers have been created for them. He also directed officials to pay attention to minority colleges.
 
 
 Sharma reiterated that schools should remain open on birth, death anniversaries of prominent personalities, and seminars and discussions on their life and work should be organised. He also asked officials to visit markets to ensure that NCERT books are available in adequate numbers. He further said that students should not be compelled to purchase guide books. “Those forcing students to buy guides will have to face stringent action,” Sharma said.
 
 “No DIOS will appoint any teachers. Till the time new appointments are made, retired teachers will be hired for teaching. Surplus teachers should be adjusted in schools facing shortage,” Sharma instructed. The government is targeting the three classes IX & XI as registrations for board examinations for class X and XII happens in class X and XI respectively. Aadhar registrations will help in checking fake enrolments. aadhar link for Class VI students is because upper primary begins from class VI.
 
 
