MUMBAI: Following the CM's statement ahead of the final release of the city's Development Plan (DP) 2014-2034 that open spaces will not be comprised,   Aaditya Thackeray on Saturday took to Twitter to make a jibe. Referring to the controversial Metro car shed at Aarey Colony, he said he hoped   was also preserved. 

 "I read in the newspapers that the CM said open spaces will not be compromised in the DP 2034. I am glad. The   has already ensured it. It has rejected the state's proposal to destroy the ecology of Aarey. I hope the CM makes sure our Aarey is preserved and respects the opinion of the elected representatives of Mumbai on a DP meant for Mumbai city. The BMC also rejected a proposal to cut 3,070 trees last month for the same. Let's hope it is accepted by the state," he tweeted.
 
 Former allies Shiv Sena and BJP have been at loggerheads over the Aarey Colony issue. In July 2017, while clearing the city's DP in BMC, Sena and   with 117 votes voted against the proposal while BJP with Samajwadi Party, MNS and NCP, with a total of 81 votes voted in favour of it.
 
  The amendment opposing the Metro carshed in Aarey Colony was moved by Shiv Sena corporator Anant Nar last year. 
 
 Sena has been opposing every proposal pertaining to changing the land use of Aarey Colony. However, it would be interesting to see who will take the final call with the plan now in the hands of the BJP-led state government. With the Metro 3, which envisages a 33.5-km fully underground line between Colaba, Bandra and Seepz, being one of the BJP-led state government's most ambitious project, it is likely to strike down the amendment.
 
 The draft DP has gone through a long revision since it was first unveiled in 2015. BMC invited suggestions/objections to the plan for two months during which a furious debate ensued. Many NGOs and activists criticized key aspects of the plan including high FSI up to 8 near crowded transit hubs like railway stations. In the revised plan, BMC did away with the concept of transit-oriented development. 
 
