On Sunday night,   who is infamous for his mercurial temperament, allegedly beat up his girlfriend,  . After being hospitalised, Neeru, a fashion stylist, lodged a complaint against the actor for assault at the Santacruz police station. The two have been in a live-in relationship since 2015.

 Recounting the horror that unfolded, Neeru spoke to BT from the hospital. She said, “The argument started on a frivolous matter. I manage Armaan’s villa in Goa, which is often rented out, and had made a booking for a client. However, the client had made the payment to the villa staff and when Armaan asked me about the money, I told him that I will ask the staff to transfer it. Suddenly, he started verbally abusing me. Before I realised what was happening, he caught me by my hair and banged my head against the floor. I begged him to allow me to go to the hospital, promising that I wouldn’t approach the police. The wound was so deep that I had to undergo a surgery. The doctor told me that the scar would be visible even after the surgery, as the assault has damaged my skin tissues. Armaan has been sending me text messages since Sunday, asking me to come back home, and he is even promising to marry me right away, but I have had enough!” 
 
 
 
 According to Neeru, she has been assaulted by him before. She says, “He had assaulted me in February this year, and nearly broke my nose. This relationship has been a huge mistake, but I continued to give him chances despite being warned by friends and family. In fact, I had called time on the relationship in September last year, and left for Dubai. I got a job and was living there peacefully. However, three months later, Armaan came to take me back home. When I told him that I didn’t want to get back to the vicious circle, he begged and pleaded with me and said that he would change. He told me that he needs me as I have made him a better person and taken care of his parents and brother. I left everything and returned to India with him.”
 
 
 
 Armaan met Neeru through a common friend in Dubai in 2015, and asked her to work with him as a stylist. They soon started dating. Before that, he was in a relationship with   — they met and fell in love during ' ' in 2013. However, the relationship ended on a sour note a year later. Neeru worked as a fashion stylist for Armaan during ' ', though at that point, they didn’t make the relationship official. In fact, in 2015, the two started a clothes and accessories line. Neeru says, “We were introduced by a common friend and he asked me to work with him. That same year, I came to Mumbai, and soon, we grew closer. A few months later, I moved in with him. Since then, I have been taking care of his work, parents and brother.”
 Neeru adds, “We have been seen together at events, but Armaan never made our relationship official. He wanted to keep it under wraps and I didn’t really care about it. He has had a string of relationships where the girls have often accused him of abuse, so I thought he didn’t want to put me out there to be judged. I took care of his house and put up with his bratty attitude.”
 
 When BT contacted Armaan Kohli for his reaction to Neeru’s complaint, he didn’t respond till the time of going to press.
 
 
 
 
