CHENNAI: Estonia’s minister (entrepreneurship and IT) Urve Palo, who is on her weeklong trip covering Delhi, Chennai and Mumbai, told TOI how Indian entrepreneurs can benefit from its various digital initiatives. On the sidelines of a   event,   spoke about her expectations from India and Estonia’s growing startup ecosystem. 
 

 
 
 
 Very early, the Estonian government decided to focus on e-solutions. They chose to engage with the private sector and added fuel to the system. Our banks were also leading transformation to the extent that we skipped the entire ‘cheque’ generation and moved to internet banking very early. Of our population, 80% use the internet everyday. Of course, our peak success story came with Skype. With its acquisition, many more Estonians were financially rewarded becoming an engine for growth.
 
 IT cuts across all sectors and in Estonia, you will find startups and companies working on solutions ranging from cyber-security to smart cities, drones and 5G. Our success is the ideal example of the phrase ‘size doesn’t matter’.
 
 
 
 
 We want to develop a long-term relationship with India to foster an attitude of cooperation for mutual benefit. We also invite Indian IT professionals to come to Estonia. According to reports, Estonia needs at least 7,000 IT specialists as an immediate requirement. It is a win-win situation for both countries as we will get skilled labour and Indians will get an opportunity to work in a country that is at the forefront of IT innovation.
 
 We have also launched ‘study in Estonia’ as a mission to encourage youngsters to get quality education in Estonia and possibly work in the country as well.
 
 For startups, the e-residency programme gives them a chance to be an e-resident, i.e. they can avail Estonia’s e-services, irrespective of where they are located. We have over 30,000 e-residents from 152 different countries of which 1,200 are from India. This is an ideal platform for startups to leverage and take their businesses global.
 
 
 
 
 India is an important and interesting country for Estonia. We have been meeting public officials as well as entrepreneurs on how we can share knowledge and drive cooperation between the two countries. Estonia is a small country in Europe with a population of just over 1 million. That seems small in comparison to India’s 1.3 billion, but we have a lot advantages to offer. We are part of global alliances like NATO, OECD and Schengen area. We have been ahead of the game with our e-governance solutions. Since 2000, all government services are offered online. All documents are electronically available and our calculation shows that we are able to save 2% of our GDP due to this digitisation.
 
 
 
