According to a recent report by the World Economic Forum on the existing gender gap issue, it has come to light that gender parity is still 200 years away, thus leaving a lot to be desired on that front. Hence, there is an inherent need to put   on the forefront and reinforce their enduring strength more than ever before. On International Women’s Day, here are some inspirational and thought-provoking women characters from leading fiction and non-fiction shows in Kannada   that hope to make a positive change and seek to bridge the gap between genders.

 
 
 A non-fiction show that has been designed to showcase the strength, intelligence and logical reasoning of women. It also has a segment to portray inspiring stories of various everyday women achievers.
 
 
 
 At a time when looks are valued over values, when an entire generation of youth is bending over backwards to lighten their skin tone, Muddulakshmi wears her dusky skin with pride. While women are subjected to humiliation and ridicule because of their looks, Muddulakshmi fights these stigmas and stereotypes thus being a beacon of hope and love for everybody around her. 
 
 
 
 The lead   from Pattedari Prathibha is a housewife who becomes a full-time detective after her brother-in-law discovers her sharp mind and knack to solve cases. How Prathibha approaches the slightest suspicion with her intelligence while facing opposition from her family is what makes for her revolutionary character.
 
 
 
 The lead from Brahmagantu is a plus-sized girl married to a state-level Kabaddi champion, Lucky. As the story moves forward Gundamma decides to take up the challenge of learning Kabaddi from her father-in-law while constantly being shunned by her husband for being obese. Watch Gundamma use this as the perfect opportunity to try her hand at a man’s sport.
 
 
 
 The story revolves around the romance and relation between Rama and Janaki. Rama is a wrestler who is too shy to talk to women, while Janaki is a confident teacher. She is his strength and the one to slowly bring Rama into his own. 
 
 
