Tirunelveli: Power generation in the state has been on the rise in tandem with increasing demand from consumers in both domestic and industrial sectors. As part of government efforts to reduce dependence on thermal power plants and to promote green energy, the Union Government had introduced the Grid Connected Rooftop and Small Solar Power Plants project.

 Officials from the Tamil Nadu Energy Development Agency (TEDA) said that even though the Union Government had sanctioned establishment of 25MW solar roof top power plants in Tamil Nadu, only 3MW has been achieved till now. The deadline was extended from the end of March, periodically, to achieve the target but installations in houses, government buildings and education institutions is moving at a snail’s pace.
 
 In 2017-18, the total installations done in the district under the scheme was a mere 42KW. However, officials said that it is a four-fold increase from 10KW in 2016-17. The biggest installations in the district recently are 7KW unit at the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board office and 5KW units at the RTO office and the block development offices in Vallioor and Pappakudi respectively. 
 
 The rest of the installations were in houses where the capacity was not more than 2KW. In April, 2KW roof top solar units were installed in five houses. "Houses, government buildings, government aided and private education institutions, NGOs and hospitals can install the roof top solar plants of capacity of 1KW to 500KW under the project at a subsidy of 30 per cent," a TEDA official told TOI.
 
 Under the scheme the stake holder can install plants that will match up to 90 per cent of their electricity requirements and directly supply it to the grid. The official added that a 1KW plant could generate 4 to 5 units in a day and would generate 240 to 300 units electricity in a two-month billing cycle, which would be deducted from the units used by the individual or establishment.
 
 Installing a 1KW plant would cost Rs 60,000 and the end user will have to pay Rs42,000 after subsidy. Stating that the cost saved from energy bills for a plant of this capacity would be Rs14,700 a year, officials added that beneficiary would be able to get back their investment in under three-and-a-half-years.
 
 In this project residents need not invest in battery which would be otherwise be an expensive affair as it has to be replaced every three to four years. Apart from lack of awareness on the benefits of the scheme, officials said that one of the major setbacks is fleecing by companies installing the solar panels. TEDA has enlisted vendors who charge according to the rates fixed by the government on their website.
 
 To apply under the scheme, one can log on to http://www.tedaprojects.in/teda/schemes/applicationform.aspx to apply. For further details on the project in Tirunelveli, the officer concerned in the District Rural Development Agency can be contacted on 7708064726.
 
 
