Patiala: Slain gangster Harjinder Singh alias Vicky Gounder, who was killed in an encounter with the organised crime control unit (OCCU) of Punjab on January 26 along with his associates Prema Lahoria and Sawinder Singh, was in touch with pro-Khalistan terrorist Pakistan-based Harmeet Singh PhD. This was revealed during ongoing investigations in the Nabha jailbreak case.

 Police sources said Gounder was using his Hong Kong-based contact Ramanjit Singh Romi, also an accused in the case, to communicate with Harmeet. Operating from Lahore, Harmeet reportedly helped the gangsters with weapons and cash.
 
 The OCCU had picked up Gagan Pandit, wanted in several criminal cases registered against him by the Amritsar police, and it was during his interrogation he revealed that Gounder and Romi were in touch with Harmeet who was trying to push fake Indian currency notes and drugs into India through Nepal, said sources.
 
 Pandit also told the cops that Harmeet had also helped Gounder and his accomplices to buy weapons from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The narcotics being sent by Harmeet were to be used by Gounder and his associates to generate funds as he had plans to spread violence in Punjab to make a name for himself.
 
 While investigating the Nabha jailbreak case, police had found that Gounder and his accomplices, Kulpreet Singh alias Neeta Deol, Gurpreet Sekhon and Aman Dhotian had included Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) chief Harminder Singh Mintoo and another Sikh militant Kashmir Singh in their escape plans, so that they could use their contacts in Pakistan to secure money and weapons to spread ‘terrorist-like violence’ in Punjab.
 
 Harmeet’s name had cropped up during the investigations being carried out by the National Investigating Agency (NIA) into the targeted killings in Punjab. Known to be an ISI-backed operative, he is also said to be in touch with the UK-based Sikh hardliners.
 
 In June last year, Punjab police had busted a terror module with the arrest of three persons Satwinder Singh, Jagroop Singh and Gurdial Singh, who were reportedly trained by him in Pakistan. The arrested persons had told the police that taking advantage of sacrilege incidents and police firing at Bargari village in Faridkot, Harmeet was trying to radicalize Punjabi youth and use them to spread violence in Punjab.
 
 
