BENGALURU: Rajajinagar assembly constituency in West Bengaluru, once a laidback residential locality, is reeling under unbridled commercialisation. Illegal constructions, lack of open spaces, shortage of water and narrow roads are among the slew of problems dogging the constituency.

 
  
  
 
 
 Sitting MLA and   candidate S  , who’s lost only once in 2004 in the past five elections from Rajajinagar since 1994, has run into tough competition from   candidate and former mayor G  . JD(S) has fielded reformed underworld don H M  , popularly known as Jedarahalli Krishnappa.
 
 Padmavathi had unsuccessfully contested against Suresh Kumar in 2008. But a lot has changed since then. As mayor, Padmavathi carefully laid the groundwork for this contest, working aggressively to drum up support through her pro-people measures. The result: both her visibility and popularity has soared. She is also hoping to milk the anti-incumbency sentiment against Suresh Kumar.
 
 “As mayor, I speeded up several development works in Rajajinagar, including Okalipuram signal-free corridor, and also initiated two RO plants in each wards, installation of LED streetlights and asphalting of several roads,” she says. The four-time Congress corporator from Prakashnagar ward in Rajajinagar is also said to be close to energy minister DK Shivakumar.
 
 BJP, on the other hand, believes Suresh Kumar’s clean and secular image will help him continue with his winning streak. “Suresh Kumar is a simple man and a familiar face. Rajajinagar is traditionally our stronghold as Congress has won only twice – 1989 and 2004 – from this segment,” says Ramesh Babu, BJP’s Rajajinagar general secretary.
 
 “I’m confident of my victory as people are aware of development work initiated during my tenure. There is no anti-incumbency in this election. People feel very safe, unlike in other constituencies ruled by Congress MLAs,” Suresh Kumar says.
 
 But Padmavathi is unrelenting. “What has he (Suresh Kumar) done for Rajajinagar, despite being elected from here four times? The constituency lacks basic amenities and also facilities like indoor stadium, public swimming pools and central library. Voters are also looking for a change,” she says.
 
 “Our neighbourhoods are bursting at the seams because of rampant commercialisation... Illegal parking, congestion and pollution are among the main issues we are facing,” says K S Sridhar, president, Rajajinagar Residents’ Welfare Association.
 
 
 
 
