MEERUT: Sher Singh Rana, convicted for murder of  , has been booked, along with three others, for the murder of   district president’s brother, Sachin Walia, in Saharanpur on Wednesday. Rana, who is currently out on bail and is the president of Rajput Mahasabha, is among four named by  , the victim’s mother.
 
  A case of murder and SC/ST Act has been registered in Kotwali Dehat against Sher Singh Rana, Kanha Rana, Narendra Rana and Updesh Rana, station officer Amar Deep told TOI.
  
  While the victim’s brother, Kamal Walia, claimed that Rana had circulated a video threatening Bhim Army and all Dalits with dire consequences if any steps were taken to prevent Maharana Pratap Jayanti celebrations, police refuted these claims.
  
  Saharanpur superintendent of police (city) Prabal Pratap Singh told TOI, “We have no knowledge of any such video.”
  
  When contacted, Sher Singh Rana refuted all the charges. “This is a baseless allegation. First of all, I was in Tatanagar district of Jharkhand on Wednesday where I was part of Maharana Pratap Jayanti celebrations. You may refer to the news reports of that region. Secondly, I challenge Kamal Walia or anyone else to show any video of mine where I am threatening or using filthy language against anyone.”
  
  During last year’s unrest in Saharanpur district around the same time which saw large-scale violence and arson in the region, Rana was present in Shabbirpur village on May 5.
  
  Meanwhile, police could not take custody of the victim's body due to aggressive protests and it was only in the early hours of Thursday that police could send it for post-mortem. After the cremation, Bhim Army workers on Thursday blocked main road in Saharanpur demanding immediate arrest of the accused.
  
  After Saharanpur SSP Babloo Kumar faced protests from Bhim Army activists and Dalits in the area when he visited the crime spot, heavy police force was deployed. District magistrate P K Pandey ordered the suspension of internet services in the district to stop rumour mongering.
  
  Manjeet Nautiyal, national spokesperson of Bhim Army, said, “Whatever the administration says, it is a clear case of murder committed deliberately on the occasion of Maharana Pratap’s birth anniversary. Our patience is being tested and our silence is being taken as cowardice. If the district administration doesn’t arrest killers and probe the case in a time-bound manner, no one must hold us responsible for the consequences.”
