NEW DELHI: Santosh wakes up at sunrise every day for his daily grind on his five-bigha,   riverbank field near the Majnu ka Tilla Tibetan refugee colony, his home for three decades. Tilling, hoeing and watering his farm, or ‘kyari’, takes up his entire day. On some days, however, Santosh hurries through his chores and makes his way to   at Kashmere Gate. There too he has a kyari to tend. So he plods up the steps to the   of one of the buildings. High in the air, he neither ploughs nor waters his ‘field’.

 For five months now, Santosh and others like him who cultivated on the banks of the polluted Yamuna have been engaged in terrace farming, growing, almost unbelievably, spinach, fenugreek, radish and mustard, among others, several metres above the ground. It is a new lease of life for them. As Rajni, a farmer on the river bank, gripes, “Delhi Development Authority frequently disrupts our activities because the   has forbidden   on the Yamuna bank because the water there is apparently too toxic to be used for vegetable cultivation.”
 
 The idea of an alternative to the polluted soil-and-water predicament came when university student Nishant Chowdhary, mulling on how to assist the hapless farmer, recalled a model he had heard was being used in Kerala. The MPhil student approached the university’s Centre for Incubation, Innovation & Entrepreneurship with a proposal for a programme that could enable people like Santosh to grow crops in big containers filled with cocopeat, obtained from coconut husk, on city terraces.
 
 Rooftops can be viable farming space in urban areas, insists Chowdhary. Maintenance is low cost, water need is lesser and crops can be produced continuously for over a decade. “Delhi residents can adopt this technique and consume high-quality organic vegetables,” he adds.
 
 Chowdhary trained around 15   under his Urban Kyari start-up, teaching them about cocopeat, which forms a nutritious and stable base for plants. “We sometimes add plant growth mediums such as perlite and natural pesticides and fertilisers such as neem oil, cow dung and lemon,” the research scholar says. The trainees conceded it was tough for them to think of farming without soil — and without ploughing and constant watering. “But these rooftop farms are lighter and easier on our bodies,” beams farmer Pappu.
 
 Sharique Farooqui, executive director of the incubation centre, is happy with the business model too. The produce from the rooftop farms is “sold to the AUD community at a price higher than the market rate, but which most are willing to pay anyway”. Such business ideas with social development at their core are what the centre aims at. “We took Nishant’s idea and turned it into a business from which the farmers can earn well,” Farooqui asserts.
 
 The idea is spreading — to the farmers’ financial delight. “A Dilshad Garden resident got me to put up a couple of bags at his home for seasonal vegetables. I earn extra for going there once every ten days and keeping an eye on his crops,” says Santosh, finally reassured that even if he is displaced from his riverside farm, he now has a Plan B.
 
 
