BHOPAL: The Pradesh Congress office celebrated Mungaoli and Kolaras victories with beating of drums, dancing, flowers, gulal and ladoos. Former Union minister Kamal Nath tweeted, "BJP's slogan 'Ab ki baar 200 paar' will be changed to 'Ab ki baar vipaksh ke liye taiyyar' (This time, be prepared to sit in the Opposition)." 

 In another tweet, he claimed that chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan who promised voters of these two seats "five years of development in five months" has been spurned by people.
 
 Both Congress and BJP tested their strength in the bypolls, largely billed as the "semi-final" before the November assembly elections. And while the ruling BJP lost, Congress did not seem entirely happy with the results either.
 
 With   off the contest, Congress expected massive victory margins - some local leaders hoped for 50,000 votes- but could barely scrape through.
 
 Congress candidate in Mungaoli, Brajendra Singh Yadav, was very enthusiastic as counting commenced on Wednesday morning. "With the Maharaja's (Jyotiraditya Scindia's) face, his work as MP of the region and public wrath against BJP, we are going to win by huge margins," he told reporters. But as counting advanced, his margin against Bai Sahab Yadav barely touched 5000 votes. Each time he would by a thousand or so, only to have it tumble in the next round.
 
 Congress had a different calculation. It added the party's 2013 victory margin to votes polled by the BSP in that election, hoping that most of it would get transferred to Congress. But that arithmetic failed and state Congress leaders still cannot understand why.
 
 In Kolaras, Congress candidate in 2013 Ram Singh Yadav won by 24,952 votes and BSP's Chandrabhan Singh Yadav secured 23,920 votes. Both parties were speculating that BSP's votes would go to the Congress but that apparently did not happen. Congress' own votebase seems to have been eroded and BSP votes apparently didn't come. The same happened in Mungaoli where Congress' Mahendra Singh Kalukheda had won in 2013 by a margin of over 20,000 votes while BSP's Balveer had secured 12,081 votes. The concern for Congress is whether BSP's votes have been grabbed by BJP.
 
 Even in defeat, BJP is searching for light at the end of the tunnel. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said, "Congress' victory margin is not very inspiring. And these seats were with Congress in the last election which have been retained with much less margin than 2013."
 
 BJP may have lost the bypoll but chased Congress to the finish line so hard that the Opposition is not buoyant even in victory. There is no clear-cut indication for November 2018.
 
 
