KOZHIKODE: The deadly   virus infection has claimed one more life, taking the toll to 16.

 Director of health services Dr R L   told reporters here on Thursday that Rasin (25), of Kottoor village near Naduvannur, died at   here.
 
  
  
 “He was admitted last Sunday with symptoms of Nipah infection. He later tested positive,” she said.
 
 Rasin was under treatment at the same hospital at  , where Ismail, who also died of Nipah infection, was admitted, indicating that the youth could have had contracted the disease from the hospital.
 
 As many as 186 samples were sent for examination, of which 18 tested positive.
 
 “Two infected persons, who have been under treatment at the Medical College Hospital, have shown considerable improvement,” she said.
 
 She also noted that  , who died on Wednesday after contracting the infection, had visited the Medical College Hospital on May 14.
 
 “No one with Nipah infection was under treatment at the hospital during that time. We are trying to find out whether any probable Nipah-infected person was then at the hospital. We have some assumptions, but we will make an announcement only after getting a confirmation,” Dr Saritha said.
 
 The health department, with the support of the revenue department, has been engaged in preparing a list of people who could have been in contact with Nipahinfected persons.
 
 “We are taking all precautions to prevent a second wave of Nipah infection. As of now, there are 1,407 people in the list,” she said.
 
 The health department has also issued guidelines regarding how to deal with a person with Nipah symptoms.
 
 Human Monoclonal 102.4 antibodies, the medicine for Nipah, is likely to arrive on Friday. Health authorities said certain protocols needed to be followed before administering the medicine on patients.
 
 It is a phase-two trial drug that was found effective in patients, who were infected with similar types of virus.
 
 District collector U V Jose said a report would be submitted to the high court on the demand raised by Kozhikode Bar Association that court sittings be suspended for 15 days in the backdrop of Nipah.
 
 The outbreak of the Nipah virus infection, a newly emerging zoonosis that causes severe disease in both animals and humans, has been suspected to be from an unused well at   in Kozhikode, which was infested with bats.
 
