BENGALURU: Once the celebrations die down, the Congress-Janata Dal (Secular) coalition will have to get down to the brass tacks of forging a working arrangement and deliberate on the more "sensitive" issues of power-sharing and portfolio allocations. 

 
 Having accorded unconditional support to JD(S), Congress, sources in the grand old party said, will not seek any plum portfolios or indulge in hard bargaining with their regional partner. "We do not want to destabilise the alliance by creating a rift over power sharing and portfolio allocations at this juncture," admitted a former   minister.
 
 JD(S) is expected to keep a minimum of 12-15 of the 33 portfolios, with the rest going to the Congress.
 
  
  
 JD(S) is also likely to be accommodative of Congress in the upcoming elections from Jayanagar and RR Nagar constituencies, where polling had been cancelled and deferred, respectively.
 
 Such is the delicate nature of the alliance that some Congress MLAs are even considering not taking oath on May 21 along with CMdesignate   as they don't want to steal his thunder. It is expected that Congress will not be imposing any pre-condition of sharing power on a 20:20 basis either, thereby surrendering control of the government to JD(S) till 2019 Lok Sabha elections and also provide shortterm stability to  .
 
 On late Saturday evening, Kumaraswamy said senior leaders of both the parties will sit together to work out the modalities of the alliance on Saturday late night. "Once the modalities are worked out, we will decide on whether any of the Congress leaders will be sworn in on May 21," said Kumaraswamy.
 
 It is expected that Kumaraswamy will invite KPCC president G Parameshwara to become the deputy chief minister. The Congress MLA from Kortagere also becomes the Dalit face to be sworn-in as the DyCM, keeping the JD(S) promise to have a Dalit or Muslim for the post.
 
 The other inclusion in the Kumaraswamy cabinet, apart from the certain ministry to his brother H D Revanna and giant killer G T Devegowda, is likely to be B Mahesh, the BSP candidate from Chamarajanagar. The Mayawati-led party is a prepoll ally of the JD(S).
 
  has been appointed head of the Congress-JD(S) coordination committee. Parameshwara will replace Siddaramaiah as Congress legislature party leader.
 
