BENGALURU: Many companies around the globe that are raising funds through cryptocurrencies are outsourcing their advertising and marketing to small - mainly Indian - agencies and groups. As these agencies use platforms like messaging app Telegram and those unique to the cryptoworld, the ban on cryptocurreny ads by   and   will have little impact on companies planning for   (ICOs).

 "Two or three months ago, there were only a few platforms that helped in advertising. Now, a company going for an ICO will have a few 100 proposals from new marketing companies that are sprouting in India," says  , CEO of Key Difference Media, a Chennai-based marketing agency that has worked with 14 foreign clients doing ICOs. Most of his clients were European.
 
 ICOs became popular last year when nearly $3 billion was raised by startups globally through this method. An ICO is based on cryptocurrencies and is similar to an initial public offering (IPO), though it also has characteristics of crowdsourced funding.
 
 Advertising is crucial for an ICO. The ads are mainly displayed in community groups in Telegram, cryptomedia websites - Cointelegraph, Coindesk, Live Bitcoin News, News BTC - and on websites that list ICO tokens - which are issued to investors in an ICO. "For a banner in a cryptomedia website, you'd have to dish out $10,000 a week," he says.
 
 Uday Kadirvel, co-founder of design-tech company Mobigraph, which is planning for an ICO in May, says the money is usually paid in cryptocurrencies or cash. The high rates globally have led to many companies outsourcing all their marketing services to India, where agencies do it for a far lesser price.
 
 Most groups operate on Telegram, which is seen to be more secure than WhatsApp. The groups get a company's tokens or cryptocoins in exchange for actions like sharing the company's message to others.
 
 This marketing technique is called an 'airdrop'.
 
 "Facebook and Google AdWords hardly generate demand (for ICOs). Only a person new to the space would be googling about it," says Salim Ali, CEO of Loyakk, which is planning an ICO.
 
 Ravi Kikan, COO of Panaesha Capital, says many may claim to be experts in the field, and it is important to verify the claims.
 
