NEW DELHI: Parliament Street is a dignified, tree-lined esplanade branching off from the commercial circle of Connaught Place and ending at Sansad Bhavan. On Saturday, it was taken over by Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar’s followers. The dominating colour was  , the colour of   identity and the colour that has, in recent days, tinged the national discourse. So on a day when   Jayanti was being celebrated, the 1.5-km road to Parliament, opened up as usual by the government to citizens to pay their tribute to the author of the Indian Constitution, bore the hallmark of Dalit distinctiveness.

 There was 23-year-old Pratham Pal in blue goggles and a tee imprinted with Ambedkar’s spectacled visage taking a selfie with a copy of the Preamble to the Constitution. Around him, others jostled for similar vantage points to get their faces alongside the emblems of Dalit assertion: Lord Buddha, Eklavya of mythology and Guru Ravidas. In between songs about “mool niwasi” and Dalit assertion, Pal stopped long enough to state: “This is our national festival. It reassures us that we too have arrived.”
 
 Thousands like him — veteran activists, youngsters and just simple Dalit folk — celebrated their “arrival” at Parliament Street, which had turned into a mini hub of Dalit literature, painting, music and Buddhist iconography. As community members milled around buying Ambedkar keychains, Buddha statues, picture frame of Dalit quotations and decorated copies of the Indian Constitution, Naresh Jakadia of Gautampuri proudly asserted that no other social or political celebration invested so much affection in the Indian Constitution and constitutionalism. “While both the right and left parties are busy destroying it, the Dalits are taking care of the legacy of Babasaheb’s Constitution,” he boasted.
 
 Such boasts were given an edge by the palpable anger over the political events of recent time and the desecration of Ambedkar statues. The younger Dalits appeared particularly incensed. As Rahul Mandrai, 20, a student and part-time driver, bristled, “People may have died during the Bharat bandh, but it was a successful show of strength. Did the anti-reservation bandh a few days later attract as many people? And look around today. India must realise that we are now organised enough to seek justice.”
 
 Indeed, while the day clearly proved that Ambedkar continues to mesmerise the Dalit and is a rallying point for the new generation, the community is now holding out for new aspirations. A modern Dalit expression is being sought through empowerment. “Educating the community is the central theme of Babasaheb’s message. People are victimised by the system, so we have to empower ourselves,” said Praveen Kumar of the DEN Empowerment Network, which was offering free IAS coaching to Dalit youth.
 
 And down the macadam stretch, this message was reiterated by DICCI, the Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. It members — emblems of social success — networked with and urged youngsters to become “job providers”. Almost on cue, some youngsters at Patel Chowk were seeking donations to set up an ‘Ambedkar Cafe’. But they weren’t thinking of a place where the ST/SC youth could sit and indulge in idle talk over a cup of coffee. “We want to start a café where young people can come, connect and learn from each other,” explained Shiv Raj, community mobiliser for Ideal Youth Health and Welfare Society. “This project will also support 20 Dalit students financially with contributions from the community itself.”
 
 After the community gala ended in the late afternoon, Vimlesh, a sanitation worker belonging to the Dalit community, was clearing Parliament Street of the day’s trash. 
 
 “Through the year, we clean the roads for others, so why not for our own Babasaheb?” he said. His cheerful smile appeared to give new colour to the usual dour assertion of Dalit identity.
 
