Ahmedabad: A few days ago, the Central University of Gujarat (CUG) issued show-cause notices to one professor, one associate professor and seven assistant professors after it received a complaint from ABVP — a student wing of the BJP — that the professors had campaigned for the Congress, for Dalit leader Jignesh Mevani, and for SC-ST OBC Ekta Manch leader Alpesh Thakore in the run-up to the Gujarat elections last year.

 The ABVP complaint was apparently submitted to the Union HRD ministry. It says that a few professors had attended Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s meeting in Ahmedabad on November 24 last year. Photographs have been reportedly submitted as evidence. One CUG teachers association member said: “Strangely, the show-cause notice states that the ABVP complaint was filed on November 17.” 
 
 The HRD ministry had referred the matter to the Gujarat’s chief election officer, who in turn forwarded it to the CUG. 
 
 But senior faculty members at the CUG say that the controversy has its roots in the academic council meeting held in March this year.
 
 In the meeting, a few senior professors had protested against their colleagues who hold statutory administrative positions — such as the registrar, the comptroller of exams, and the chief finance officer — instead of concentrating on research and academic activities. 
 
 “We remember the bitter arguments that had broken out in this meeting,” said a senior CUG faculty member. “One section of the seniors had said that since 2009 the CUG had not appointed qualified people to hold these statutory administrative posts. The CUG ranked 60 in India in 2016. In 2017-18, the CUG is not even in the first 200 because of these issues.”
 
 Another member of the CUG teachers’ association said: “Even if the complaint was registered in November last year, why is action being taken now?” 
 
 The member said that CUG’s ABVP president Vijay Mishra and former ABVP state secretary Naresh Desai have denied that ABVP Gujarat issued such a letter.
 
 
