BENGALURU: With the three major   having a clear-cut majority to send their candidates to the upper house based on their strength in the assembly, the election to the council seats from the assembly is set to be a unanimous decision. On Thursday, the last date for filing nominations, the 11 candidates from the three political parties presented their affidavits to the returning officer and incumbent assembly secretary.

 
 Of these, five filed their nominations from the BJP, four from Congress and two from JD(S). The assembly will elect 11 MLCs in this biennial election to the 75-member house.
 
 A look at the affidavits suggests that the JD(S) candidate B M Farooq, who contested the   elections twice in the last three years and lost, is the richest MLC who will be elected this time. Farooq and his wife have assets worth a staggering Rs 770 crore and have declared six vehicles including two high-end cars — a Range Rover and a Lexus apart from a in Camry — which alone is worth Rs 4.6 crore. The real estate magnate has a total liability of Rs 110 crore. Farooq is also likely to be the richest MLC in the legislative council. The other JD(S) candidate is S L Dharme Gowda, a former MLA from Kadur.
 
 Of the Congress, the richest candidate to be fielded is CM Ibrahim who is worth Rs 42 crore and has a liability of Rs 5.3 lakh.
 
 The Congress has also renominated K Govindraj, who is worth Rs 23 crore and has a liability of Rs 7 crore. Both Ibrahim and Govindraj are closely associated with former chief minister Siddaramaiah.
 
 The BJP has the most educated of the 11 MLCs to be elected from the assembly in  , who has a PhD. Her assets total Rs 5.9 crore, with a total liability of Rs 1.4 crore.
 
 N Ravi Kumar of the BJP is the ‘poorest’ of the 11 who will be elected to the upper house in these elections. Kumar has declared assets worth Rs 10 lakh and is unmarried. The richest candidate from the party is businessman K P Nanjundi. The BJP candidate is worth Rs 98 crore and has a liability of Rs 25 crore.
 
