CHANDIGARH: Power consumers will get rebate in their bills as the Chandigarh electricity department owes them Rs 17 crore as interest on security.

 The electricity department caters to 2.15 lakh consumers of nine categories. The majority of power is consumed by domestic consumers followed by commercial category. The interest will be adjusted in the bills to be generated from the months of April to May.
 
 The department generates bills for domestic customers bi-monthly. Domestic consumers have been divided into four groups of 50,000 each. They pay bills in six cycles a year, while bills of commercial consumers are generated every month.
 
 According to the norms, while applying for a connection, each consumer has to pay security charges at the rate of Rs 750 per kilowatt for which the department charges security amount ranging between Rs 1,000 and Rs 10,000, depending upon the type of the connection.
 
  (JERC) regulations make is mandatory for the department to pay interest on security, equivalent to the prevailing bank rate or rate approved by the commission.
 
  superintending engineer M P Singh said each consumer will be paid interest to be calculated at the rate of 7.75 per cent. If a consumer deposited Rs 10,000 as security, the department will credit Rs 775 in the bill.
 
 The department has urged the JERC to approve the amount to be paid as interest on security. The decision of the department will further push revenue gap amounting to Rs 330 crore. The department is also in process of filing annual power petition. According to sources, the department has proposed hike in the existing tariffs up to 20% in different categories.
 
 In the past five years, the commission has revised power tariff only twice – 2012-13 and 2015-16— and turned down the petition on three occasions on the ground that the department had failed to submit certain audited accounts.
 
 
 
 Despite being pulled up by the JERC, the department has yet again failed to file the petition within stipulated time period. For the ongoing financial year, the department had filed tariff petition on January 19, while in 2016 the petition was filed on February 29. The JERC in the latest tariff order noted: “Historically, the petitioner has never filed its petition on time. The commission now directs the petitioner to submit the subsequent tariff petitions on or before November 30 failing which the commission will be constrained to take appropriate action against the petitioner.”
 
 
