CHENNAI: Around 100 more destitute elderly people were shifted out of   in   village late on Wednesday, even as   district officials grappled in the dark on how to pin the facility for various irregularities in the absence of a law governing institutions for the terminally ill.

 For the last two weeks every inch of the home, which sits on a sprawling 16-acre campus in Uthiramerur, Kancheepuram, has been scrutinised by multiple inspection teams from the health, revenue and social welfare departments. The investigation was initiated after one of the home’s vans was found ferrying the body of an elderly man along with vegetables and two other senior citizens on February 20. 
 
 On Wednesday, while shifting out the remaining 100 of the 289 destitute people residing in the facility, officials found nine children housed on the same campus. They alerted the child welfare committee, which sent a member for inspection. 
 
 “Our member tried to take the children away as housing them is such facilities is a violation of the Juvenile Justice Act,” said R N Manikandan, chairman of CWC, Kancheepuram. “The staff at the hospice stopped us,” he said.
 
 The hospice, however, said the children had “legitimate reasons” to be on the campus. “Their parents work as staff for us. We ensure that they have no contact with the dead or the dying,” said Father Thomas, the home’s proprietor. The children, aged between two and nine years, clung on to their parents and refused to leave, he said.
 
 The CWC had given the home time till Monday to present proof of the children’s parentage, following which action would be taken, said Manikandan. 
 
 In the meanwhile, police, as part of their investigation was talking to patients shifted out of the home to find if they were abused. “So far, none of them has reported abuse or come forward to lodge a complaint,” said Santhosh Hadimani, Kancheepuram superintendent of police.
 
 Revenue divisional officer G Rajiv said the main violation the home faces now is the absence of a sanitation certificate. “Their licence expired in September. They applied for a fresh one but it was kept pending because of incomplete paperwork,” he said. 
 
 The village administrative officer had also stopped issuing death certificates for the destitute. “Many of the destitute in this home are mentally ill and can’t identify themselves, so the home gives them a name. The officer for obvious reasons was reluctant to sign these papers,” said another official who is part of the investigation team. “On the other hand, what else can the home do? It can’t refuse a roof for the destitute or dying just because they have no name.” 
 
 The home maintains that all the people they housed were those referred to them by police and government hospitals. 
 
 In the absence of a law for hospices, St Joseph’s Hospice was registered under the   Hostels and Homes for Women and Children (Regulation) Act, 2014.   say the hospice’s situation has only highlighted the need for an Act for such facilities. 
 
 “How can officials call the facility illegal when it is registered under an Act primarily meant for the safety of women and children,” asked A Narayanan of Change India, an advocacy group. 
 
 
