VADODARA: The ruling saffron group on Tuesday registered a clean sweep in M S University’s syndicate elections which were held for 13 seats of the new syndicate body. 

 With this, the group which was enjoying majority in the outgoing syndicate body, will continue to wrest control in the new syndicate body which will take charge on March 4. 
 
 Not a single candidate backed by the ‘sankalan samiti’ which had members of the BJP, the RSS, the ABVP and the teachers body – the Maharaja Sayajirao Vishyavidyalay Shaikshik Sangh could win in Tuesday’s elections.
 
 The atmosphere at the campus was charged up on Tuesday afternoon when voting for the 13 seats of the new syndicate body apart from four seats of the P G Council, three seats of board of accounts and two seats of board of extra mural studies started at 1 pm. 
 
 Of the 89 senators who were eligible to exercise their voting rights, a total of 88 voters cast their votes during the polls held at the university head office. 
 
 The elections witnessed a couple of anxious moments when members of the ‘sankalan samiti’ entered into heated arguments with MSU officials who were trying to cross verify details of the six government officials, who are ex-officio members of the senate. 
 
 After the university officials received clarification from the state government, the representatives sent by the government officials were allowed to vote. 
 
 As the results started pouring in, it became clear that the ruling saffron camp not only had an upper hand but it had won on all the seats across all the constituencies including that of deans, general category and teachers. 
 
 On the two seats of deans,  , dean of Faculty of Medicine, bagged the highest number of votes – 80 — followed by Arun Pratap, dean of Faculty of Technology and Engineering who bagged 57 votes. A C Sharma, dean of Faculty of Science, who was backed by ‘sankalan samiti’ finished third with 37 votes. One vote was declared invalid. 
 
 On the six seats of general category, Dinesh Yadav bagged the highest votes – 57, followed by Jigar Inamdar and Mayank Patel – both of whom bagged 55 votes each while Satyen Kulabkar bagged 52 votes. Satyakant Shastri and Kamal Shah bagged 48 and 44 votes respectively.
 
 Rajnikant Darji, who was contesting as an independent bagged just nine votes while two votes were declared invalid. 
 
 With 48 votes in his favour Ranjan Aiyer won on the one seat of professor constituency defeating Ketan Upadhyaya who bagged 30 votes while ten votes were declared invalid. 
 
 On the four seats representing teachers, Rajesh Kelkar bagged the highest votes – 46, followed by Satyajit Chaudhari (45) Beejaysinh Rathod (44) and Minesh Shah(43) votes respectively. While teachers supported by ‘sankalan samiti’ bagged votes in the range of 25 to 31, two teachers who were contesting as independents – Ashir Mehta and Nikul Patel – bagged 12 and six votes in their favour.
 
 Candidates backed by the ruling group also won in P G Council, board of accounts and board of extra mural studies. 
 
 Bishwajit Chakravarty, Dipendra Jadeja, Satish Pathak and   have got elected on the four seats of P G Council. While Kavita Sindhav, Vinod Patel and Ketul Dashadia have got elected on the three seats of board of accounts, Anjali Mehta and Prashant Murumkar have got elected on the two seats of board of extra mural studies. 
 
 
