MUMBAI: A special court on Monday convicted and sentenced a 43-year-old peon of a children’s home to   for sexually abusing a minor and a young adult in 2014. Both are mentally challenged. 

 One of them had been shifted to this shelter in the eastern suburbs after being rescued from a Panvel   following reports that girls were raped and brutalized there.
 
  
  
 
 The accused was found guilty under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ( ) Act. The special judge said, “The accused is sentenced to suffer imprisonment for life for the remainder if his natural life.” The accused was also fined a total of Rs 50,000. The court said that Rs 20,000 was to be paid to each of survivors from the fine amount. The accused has been in jail since his arrest in 2014. 
 
 Special public prosecutor   said 14 witnesses deposed in the case including the survivors. He said that they deposed through sign language. Other witnesses included psychologists and counsellors.
 
 Police had said the shelter home had around 300 children, mostly orphans, who are sent to a neighbouring school for studies. The girls were 16 and 18 when the matter came to light in 2014.
 
 The case came to light in March 2014. Police had then alleged that the incidents took place a few months prior to that. The matter came to light after the girls told a counsellor, who was part of Chunauti, a field action project backed by  .
 
 The police alleged that one girl was raped by the accused while being taken to the toilet during school hours, and the other was on her way to a water cooler. “The counsellor saw one of the two girls with a Rs 50 note and enquired with her how she got it. Through conversations, it was learnt that the accused had given it to her after sexually abusing her,” Bagade said.
 
 The 2011 Panvel case was brought to light by a Bombay high court-appointed committee to investigate the condition of children's shelters in Maharashtra. The   had no facilities for mentally challenged children. In 2013, a sessions court convicted six in the case. The founder of the shelter got death penalty for the “murder” of a minor. This was later overturned by the Bombay high court and he was sentenced to 10 years. All 19 girls rescued from the Panvel Home and 18 children rescued from Thane were brought to the children’s home where the survivors resided. 
 
 
