UJJAIN: With their unique modus operandi of  , some tribal gangs from Rajasthan in Ujjain district have put police in a quandary. They steal livestock and farm equipment and then line up agents to strike a deal with the victims.

 “After striking a deal and payment of  , the stolen cattle and equipment are left at different areas and their owners are informed about it as well,” said a senior police official RK Rai. 
 
 He said that in such cases police often fail to track down the gang members and the agents since the victims don’t cooperate with them. The police have to take victims in confidence to arrest the accused.
 
 According to sources, more than six cases of thefts have been reported at Mahidpur Road police station in past three months. In all these cases stolen equipment and cattle were found abandoned.
 
 Recently, a stolen tractor of farmer Prahalad Jat of Barukhedi village was found abandoned after Mahidpur Road police registered a case of  . Also, four stolen buffaloes of another farmer in Petlawad were found at a deserted place after the police registered a case of theft. 
 
  Shailendra Jain of Dhelchi village was also in for a shock when he found his stolen livestock abandoned after lodging a complaint of theft. “Similar cases of thefts were reported at Jhuthawad and Hidi villages in Nagda and Koyal village in Mahidpur,” said a Mahidpur police official, requesting anonymity. 
 
 Police suspect involvement of Kanjar gang in the crime on the basis of previous cases in which accused were arrested. “Kanjar gang was active in the district for over a decade. The number of such cases has declined in past three years after we arrested the thieves, mostly belonging to Kanjar gang,” said police adding that they hail from Gangadhar and Choumela villages of Rajasthan.
 
 The gang members travel and steal the cattle and agriculture equipment of farmers particularly living in Mahidpur villages, Aalot of Ratlam and Satimau of Mandsaur. 
 
 Mahidpur Road police station in charge Munni Parihar, however, said she don’t have information about such practice. “We have our teams ready to trace down such gangs, if any,” she said. 
 
 
