BENGALURU: The high court on Wednesday denied bail to Shanthinagar MLA N A Haris’s son  , who was arrested for allegedly assaulting  , son of a businessman, at Farzi Café in UB City on February 17. The court described the attack as “horrifying and terrifying incident”. 

 With this, the chances of   walking out of the Central Jail, Parappana Agrahara, any time soon have dwindled. This is the second major legal setback for him; a city civil and sessions court had rejected his bail plea on March 2. MLA Haris and his supporters were hopeful of the former   leader getting bail this time. 
 
 Justice  , in his 38-page order, stated: “As far as the position of the petitioner (Haris Jr) in society is concerned, he is the son of a sitting MLA and wields power. This can be very much made out after watching CCTV footages (of the incident). The way he and his men attacked and injured brutally (Vidvat) shows the exhibition of wielding muscle power. The fact that nobody in the restaurant came to the rescue of the injured cannot be ignored. The incident appears to be horrifying and terrifying.”
 
 The judge maintained that, prima facie, there are materials to connect Haris Jr to non-bailable offences such as section 326 (causing grievous hurt) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code. Refusing to extend his discretion in favour of Haris Jr, Justice Kumar said it is important to consider the position of the accused and said: “It is sure that he misuses his position as he had already done to intimidate witnesses and tamper with evidence. The CCTV footage shows the horrendous atmosphere created when the incident took place and there is no guarantee that such people will remain quiet without tampering with evidence once they come out of jail.”
 
 
 
 
 The rejection of bail petition has narrowed Mohammed Nalapad Haris’s options of getting out of the jail at the earliest. 
 
 According to legal experts, he can approach the   or wait till the chargesheet is filed by police. Even if Haris Jr approaches the Supreme Court on Thursday, he will have to wait for nearly a week for the plea to come up for hearing.
 
 According to P Prasanna Kumar, special public prosecutor for the CBI at the high court, in normal circumstances, the limit for filing a chargesheet in a criminal case is 60 days. “However, in this case, since section 307 of IPC (attempt to murder) has been invoked, police have got 90 days to complete investigation and submit chargesheet.” In case the chargesheet is not filed in a criminal case within the stipulated time, an accused can seek automatic or default bail under section 167(2) of the criminal procedure code. 
 
 
