CHANDIGARH: The report of the   test conducted on the three accused in auto gang   case has confirmed that they had committed the crime.

 The   (CFSL) report that the Chandigarh police submitted to Chandigarh district court on Wednesday says that Mohammad Irfan, Mohammad Garib and Kismat Ali alias Poppu raped the woman in Sector 53 on November 17 last year. Chandigarh SSP also verified the same.
 
 It is pertinent to mention here that Mohammad Irfan was the main accused in the gangrape of a call centre employee in Sector 29 in December 2016 and his DNA report also confirmed of the same .
 
 As far as case of sector 53 auto gang rape is concerned, Chandigarh police received the report of the DNA tests conducted on the three accused, which shows that their DNAs matched with the samples taken from the clothes of the victim. The samples were sent to CFSL after the three were arrested. The case is being heard in special court and the hearing is going on a day-to-day basis.
 
 On Wednesday, the statement of the civil judge, who presided over the test identification parade (TIP), was recorded. The statement of manager of the petrol pump of Sector 42, Kuldeep, was also recorded as he was the one who shared the CCTV footage of the accused which led to the arrest of the main accused. The accused got his auto refuelled from this petrol pump before committing the crime.
 
 According to charge sheet, a 21-year-old woman had boarded a shared autorickshaw at 7.45pm on November 17 last year after attending her first stenography class in Sector 37. There were two male passengers —Garib and Kismat Ali alias Poppu— already in the three-wheeler. Instead of taking the woman to Mohali, where she stayed as a paying guest, the driver Mohammad Irfan headed towards Sector 42, on the pretext of refuelling the vehicle. Later, Mohammad Irfan drove her to a jungle opposite the fuel station where all the three committed the heinous act. An hour later, two men on a motorcycle spotted the woman crying on the roadside. She told them about the crime, following which they informed cops. The gang-rape survivor identified the accused auto rickshaw driver and the two others during the identification parade. It was also mentioned that the accused were roaming around the area with an intention to commit a crime after consuming liquor. The deliberately drove towards southern sectors to find a target. As the woman boarded the auto, Irfan Mohammad drove towards Sector 53. All of them raped her in an isolated place.
 
