CHANDIGARH: The problems that area councillor   promised to solve a year ago continue to plague   (Sectors 18, 19, and 21) when she is no longer mayor.

 The councillor accepts that she failed to deliver much of what she had promised to the public. She says the bureaucrats running the municipal corporation always came up with excuses to neglect the issues of her area. In a TOI roundtable conference on April 30, 2017, residents from the three sectors of the   had highlighted the bad condition of their parks and roads, the delay in lifting of garbage from the dumping area in Sector 18, the parking problem in their residential areas, and the encroachment in the motor markets of Sector 18 and 21.
 
 
 
  
 
 Residents appreciate the role of the area councillor in installing an open gym and growing flowerbeds in the parks of Sector 19. They are relieved that the system of door-to-door garbage collection has also improved a lot from the past but they also have a long list of unsolved problems. Sector 19 resident welfare association (RWA) president R L Goyal said: “Some aspects of the civic administration that we raised with the councillor have improved indeed. The residents hope that that the councillor will also help us get proper water supply before the harshest part of summer.”
 
 During the TOI discussion a year ago, Asha Jaswal had asked the residents to support her in removing land grabbers from the market by promising that public will not protest any strict action against encroachment. Encroachment has multiplied since in the markets of Sectors 18, 19, and 21. Foswac (Federation of Sector Welfare Associations of Chandigarh) president  , who also leads the resident welfare association of Sector 21, said: “The residents support the municipal authorities and the councillor, yet encroachment upon the market spaces has increased in the past one year. Residents are losing hope.”
 
 Confronted with these issues, Asha Jaswal said even she was dissatisfied with the performance of the maintenance team for the neighbourhood parks. “Neither the paths are constructed nor the sanitation is up to the mark,” she said. “Residents claim that the maintenance system for the parks is complicated and the municipal corporation fails to pay the RWAs in time for maintenance.” She promised to streamline the system.
 
 Residents of Sector 19 want their welfare association to surrender the maintenance of parks to the MC, as the maintenance cost is much higher than the payment they receive. Instead of new open gyms, they want improved parks. They also suggested during the roundtable conference a year ago that keeping in view the parking chaos in residential areas, the municipal authorities should draft a policy that residents must make own provisions for parking in their house.
 
  president   said the situation was getting worse by the day, since the number of vehicles had increased and parking space had shrunk. He said: “If the authorities concerned approached the RWA, we can show them vacant space in the sector for parking lots, but nobody takes the pain.” Asha Jaswal said she had proposed two community parking lots in Sector 19 but the officer of the UT chief architect had rejected the site plan on the ground that since the groundwater level had declined in the city, a green-belt area could not be reduced.
 
 
 
