CHANDIGARH: Congress has started a damage control exercise to quell the dissent among a section of state party leaders who have been upset over the “inadequate” representation to Dalits in the recent  .

 Sources said playing peacemaker, the central leadership has asked the state leadership to explore the possibility of suitably accommodate the sulking leaders, most of whom happen to be legislators.
 
 Technical education minister Charanjit Singh Channi too has joined the chorus for a better deal for Dalit leaders in the party, sources said.
 
 There are reports of feelers being sent out to the disgruntled MLAs that chief minister   would look into “grouses” and they could be meeting him over the next few days, sources added.
 
 “A section of the MLAs, believed to be upset since the cabinet expansion, met the CM on Wednesday as well,” said a senior  .
 
 When contacted, Amritsar (West) MLA Raj Kumar Verka said, “The party high command had asked us to brief the chief minister about the issues on our mind. I’m sure that the matter will be resolved.”
 
 Verka had on Tuesday posted a video on his social media about his reaction to the cabinet expansion. “I had got several calls from college and university students and I wanted to tell them that we needed to move on for a larger cause of Dalits that is being effectively taken further by party president Rahul Gandhi. Otherwise, there is no annoyance with the party,” he said.
 
 Navtej Singh Cheema, MLA from  , who too was considered to be in race for a cabinet berth, said he met the CM on Wednesday to discuss preparations for the upcoming 500th anniversary celebrations of Guru   in his area next month.
 
 Meanwhile, a member of the newly-constituted coordination committee of   said the panel too would convene a meeting shortly to discuss the issues troubling the party leaders. Where there have been reports of some MLAs unhappy with police postings in their area, others rue that Akali leaders in their areas still seem to be calling the shots with the bureaucracy.
 
 Tanda MLA Sangat Singh Gilzian, another sulking MLA, said he too would be keen on discussing the issue of Dalit representation with the state leadership. “After all I have served the party for so long. If they reach out to me, I will certainly ensure that an amicable solution is arrived at. I got to know that some MLAs have got a message to meet the CM already,” he said.
 
 Amid reports of him expecting a better portfolio in the cabinet, Channi, along with deputy speaker Ajaib Singh Bhatti, has been leading the Dalit leaders to the high command, seeking a better deal for them. Even though there were reports of Channi meeting Amarinder, the former was not available to confirm it.
 
 Five-time MLA and senior Congress leader Rakesh Pandey, who too was in the reckoning for a cabinet berth, also met the chief minister on Wednesday. However, when contacted, he said it was a pre-scheduled appointment about some local issues of his constituency that he wanted to discuss with Amarinder.
 
 
