 ( BIJAPUR, CHHATTISGARH): Prime Minister   on Saturday gave a pat on chief minister  's back saying that  's development initiatives are progressing in the right direction with a string of welfare schemes for the poor and focussing on progress of backward areas, including tribal Bastar region. 

 Addressing an impressive gathering after launching Ayushman Bharat scheme from a remote Maoist hit village here, he said universities have been established in tribal Bastar and Sarguja regions and new schools and colleges have been set up in all the districts as a result youth from Bastar and Sarguja are not only becoming doctors and engineers but also entering government services by clearing PSC and UPSC examinations.
 
 Pointing out that Chhattisgarh has taken up revolutionary steps in the field of medical education and health services, the Prime Minister said the number of medical colleges have now increased 10 from two when the state was formed. He said that a massive road network has come up in Bastar region where more than 400-km long new roads have been constructed.
 
  "There were places where it was not possible to reach by jeeps, but now passenger bus services are being operated in Bastar," he said. Referring to the integrated steel plant being set up by National Mineral development corporation (NMDC) in Bastar, Prime Minister said that the plant would be commissioned by the end of this year. Similarly, in the next two years, railway network would reach Jagdalpur, the divisional headquarters of Bastar with the completion of Dallirajhara-Raughat railwayline-a project which was initiated nearly two-and-a-half decades ago.
 
 Modi said that the new airport at Jagdalpur would become fully operational in the next couple of months which will be a major leap in providing air connectivity in Bastar. He said the ongoing projects in Bastar would change the face of the tribal region, hoping that Bastar's new identify would be in the form of economic hub in the near future. Referring to the 'Bastar Net' the first phase of which was inaugurated on Saturday, Prime Minister said laying of more than 800-km long optical fibre network connecting all the seven districts of the tribal region would go a long way in providing internet services. Overall, a new Bastar would usher in, he added. 
 
 
