

 Students should not panic thinking that the question paper for the re-exam will be tough. The difficulty level will be as per   guidelines. In fact, students should be more confident now as they have already appeared for the paper once. 
 
 It is imperative to understand the use of economic theories in handling real life situations to answer application based and high order thinking skill questions. Keep update of current affairs, specially related to government policies and global issues, to write impactful answers.
 
 Studying the NCERT and supplementary reading material provided by the board is important. One must avoid referring to new reference books at the last moment. 
 
 The syllabus is divided into nine distinct units. Units on consumer and producer behaviour, market forms, national income and income determination carry more weight. 
 
 One may tend to get confused with the many diagrams in the syllabus. Make sure to understand and practice each graph sufficient number of times and depict the correct relation between variables through them. See similarities in formulas to learn them easily. 
 
 Tricky items like factor incomes from and to abroad, net exports and net imports, components of operating surplus, compensation to employees, gross domestic capital formation etc need to be identified and accounted for correctly. 
 
 Dedicate maximum 2 minutes per mark while solving the paper. 1 mark questions take lesser time. Weigh the question content against the marks assigned to ensure you incorporate sufficient key points. Make a frame/mind map of the answer before you start writing it. Better to incorporate key words instead of trying to explain the content in your own language. 
 
 Underline sub headings, if any, to get attention of the examiner. Leave at least two extra lines after each point and 4-5 lines after each answer. This will help you to add on extra points while reviewing the paper. This way you will have time to recheck and edit your answer sheet.
 
 (The writer, Delnaaz Kapoor, is   teacher at Centre Point School, Katol Road) 
 
 
 
