Ludhiana: Irked over the denial of tickets from Congress for contesting MC polls, a group of women party workers staged protest outside the residence of MP Ravneet Bittu near Rose Garden on Sunday. They alleged that the party ignored the contribution of the actual women workers and the tickets were given to the wives or relatives of former and senior councillors of the party. They demanded that the party should at least consider the genuine female workers, who have worked at the ground level, even when the party was not in power.

 The female workers slammed Bittu for turning coats and giving tickets to the blue-eyed leaders, who have close contact to the MLAs. They rued that the party had promised to give equal rights to the female leaders but now again the tickets have been issued to the near and dear ones of ex-councillors, MLAs and other leaders of the party. They said these female candidates will act as rubber stamps to their male counterparts, who have emerged successful in getting tickets for them.
 
 Manisha Sharma, one of the ticket aspirants, while protesting said, they are protesting only for their own rights. She said they would have accepted the decision of the party, in case genuine people would have got the tickets. But here, ground-level party workers have been ignored completely. 
 
 Another ticket aspirant Anita Sharma said the party was supposed to give equal seats to the women. But here, when ex-councillors and other leaders have become successful in getting seats for the female members of the house, it means that male candidates will dominate in the MC house and female voices will be suppressed once again.
 
 However, Ravneet Bittu was not available at his residence at the time of protest. Therefore, the Congress district president (rural) Gurdev Singh Lapran, came to accept the demand letter of the protesters and assured them that he will raise their demands with party the high command. 
 
 Notably, since the time the party has announced its candidates for 95 wards, the ticket aspirants are protesting against the leaders. On Saturday evening, Malkeet Alam, a ticket aspirant from ward number 11, had protested outside MLA Sanjay Talwar office. Even in ward number 95, some of the Congress party workers protested against the senior Congress leaders. 
 
 
