Goutam Ghose’s celebrated documentary on   is finally being digitised. The Bengal government has started the process of restoring ‘Ray’ so that it can be shown on the big screen and be made available on DVDs.

 Produced by Information and Cultural Affairs department under the banner of Satyajit Ray Archive and supported by Ford Foundation, Ghose’s documentary was applauded at the Venice Film Festival screening in 1999. A rather shabby version of ‘Ray’ is currently available on YouTube. “But that’s’ illegal since the government hasn’t given rights for it to be shared online. In our vaults, we have one negative of ‘Ray’. Though we have 35 mm positive print, there is no projection system available to screen it. We don’t have DVDS, DCPs or blue ray format of ‘Ray’ on us,” said an official of the I&CA department.
 
 According to Ghose, “Monku-di (Satyajit Ray’s wife Bijoya) had opened the doors of her home for me to shoot whatever I wanted to. I’d request the government to finalise who will restore the documentary and begin work fast.”
 
 Some months back, the prestigious Criterion Collection Inc had expressed interest in digitising and restoring ‘Ray’. The company has restored and released masterpieces by  ,  , Federico Fellini and Francois Truffaut, among others. However, the only hitch was that the Bengal government would have to part with the sole negative available. “We couldn’t take that risk and told the company that we would digitise it and then send it across for restoration. For that, we had asked them to suggest their terms and conditions including the technical specifications. If it suited us, we would try and send the digitised copy. Some three months ago, they replied saying it was too late. But they have expressed the desire to work with us in future,” said the official.
 
 Incidentally, India hardly has a tradition of preserving archive films. Valuable archive footage on Ray, notably his dialogue with Marlon Brando and a rare round-table discussion featuring Ray, Italian film-maker Michelangelo Antonioni, Greek-American director-producer Elia Kazan and Japanese film-maker Akira Kurosawa that was anchored in 1975 by Amita Malik have been shockingly lost by Doordarshan.
 
 Ghose’s 100-minute documentary remains one of the rare works on the legendary director. The director describes ‘Ray’ as a trip into world of a renaissance figure – larger than life- almost unreal in his intensity. It opens with a footage of Audrey Hepburn announcing “the Academy Board of governors have voted to award honorary Oscar to the great Indian film-maker Satyajit Ray”. The camera then moves on to a clip that was shown of Ray in his Kolkata hospital bed. Holding the trophy, Ray painfully gasps for breath while describing it as a “magnificent award… certainly the best achievement of my movie-making career”.
 
 Though this documentary was made after Ray’s demise, Ghose managed a coup by using Ray’s own voice in the commentary alongside that of Aparna Sen. It also has rare recordings of Ray describing his meetings with Tagore. “Meeting is hardly the word,” Ray’s commentary states. That’s because one strolled up to him with “one’s heart in one’s mouth and touched his feet”. “But every time that happened, Rabindranath would glance up to my mother and say: ‘Why don’t you send your son to my school?’” the icon recalls in the docu. Later on, he speaks about his stint at Kala Bhawan where he had joined as a student. “I had no wish to become a painter… certainly not a painter of the Oriental school. I strongly disliked the wishy-washy sentimentalism of the Oriental Art...,” his voice trails off.
 
 The Bengal government has finally taken the initiative to digitise more than 2000 cans of films. This list includes “Ray”. But it doesn’t want to send the negatives to any studios outside its film vaults. “We have finished the cleaning process of ‘Ray’. Four film companies, including Prasad Corporation Ltd. from Chennai, came forward with their proposals to restore ‘Ray’ and other films. Whoever does the work has to get the machine and do it in Kolkata. Money isn’t a factor for the restoration of this documentary,” said the official.
 
 Said Sridhar Gopalan, general manager - business development at Prasad Corporation Ltd., “Apart from over 3000 Indian movies, we have also restored 26 Academy winning films and over 400 Hollywood classics. We have the technology for restoring ‘Ray’. Given an opportunity, we would want to start work on it soon.” Ghosh now wants the government to take a call on this as quickly as possible. “Delaying this decision will only increase the risk of losing a valuable part of our film heritage,” the director said.
 
