KOLKATA: Kolkata and   may be just a month away from the hottest period of the year unless local climatic conditions change significantly.

 April might be the hottest month in the city this summer, which could see the mean average maximum temperature soar by 0.5 degree to 1 degree Celsius above the normal mark. 
 
 May is still considered peak summer in the region but the trend, weather officials point out, has changed over the last few years.
 
 “An altered squall pattern is the reason behind a milder May and more sizzling April,” Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director G K Das said. “Nor’westers now occur more frequently in May than in April and this keeps pulling the mercury down. So the peak summer period in Kolkata has now advanced to April, which means the rise in the mean maximum temperature — as predicted by the   — is imminent next month,” he added.
 
 But the conditions in Kolkata will still be milder than in north and central India where, according to   (IMD) predictions, the average maximum temperatures may soar a degree-and-a-half above normal. 
 
 North and central India might have the worst a month to a month-and-a-half later, Das said.
 
 Weather officials clarified a higher mean temperature didn’t indicate every day this year would be warmer than previous years. “Some days may be much hotter, with the mercury crossing the normal mark, but on other days it may even drop a notch or two. IMD predicted the average of the maximum temperature between March and May. The rise may seem minimal in temperature terms but, coupled with other climatic conditions, it could turn out to be a very harsh summer,” said Das.
 
 A 20-year analysis of the city’s weather puts the average April mean maximum temperature at 30.2°C.
 
 IMD predicted   waves across north and central India but the chances of such spells are lower in the east. Kolkata experienced a heat wave in the second week of April in 2016. “Kolkata enjoys a moderate climate as it is near the coast. We’ve a moderate summer, mild winter but a wet rainy season. Heat waves rarely happen in such weather though they can’t be ruled out,” a weather scientist said. The maximum temperature has to cross 37°C and soar above the normal mark by 4.5°C for a heat wave to occur.
 
 
