HYDERABAD: While many candidates who failed to qualify for the   are busy looking for other options, surprisingly, 32% of those short-listed for the final   have decided to give the test a miss, this year.

 
 According to official data, while 2.4 lakh JEE Main candidates were selected for the   exam, only 1.6 lakh among them have registered for the test, scheduled to be held on May 20. Experts attributed this to more students, particularly those with poor rankings in the Mains, preferring to appear for other tests where they have a better chance of qualifying. This, they added, was advisable for candidates who secured ranks of more than 20,000 in the JEE Main.
 
 ''Over the years, a growing number of students have decided to opt out of JEE Advanced. This is because there are only 7,000-odd seats in IITs. Based on their rank in JEE-Main, students can gauge if they stand a chance to get admission into an IIT. If their JEE Main rank is greater than 20,000 it is advisable that they focus their efforts on other entrance exams and JEE Main counselling sessions. This also gives them a greater chance of securing admission in a course of their choice,” said  , CEO and co-founder of Toppr.com.
 
 Interestingly, the number of students opting out of the JEE Advanced exam is increasing with every passing year. While 21% of eligible students opted out of the Advanced race in 2016, the number increased by 2% in 2017. In 2018, the number has jumped to 32%.
 
 
 “One of the reasons why students, especially from tier 2 or tier 3 cities, opt out of JEE Advanced exam is because they are not well equipped — with things such as a laptop or digital mode of learning — to prepare for JEE Advanced examination. Also, their Mains score gives them a rough idea about their potential. If their rank is around 1.25 lakh or above, most of them prefer NIT or state engineering colleges. Many students also sign up for a second attempt because they think they will get abetter college the next year,”  , CEO, BasicFirst.
 
