AHMEDABAD: “On the night of honeymoon, did you and your husband celebrate your honeymoon with great pleasure and you were very happy and joyful on that night?” When a defence lawyer put this question across the   involving Asaram, the court intervened and stopped the advocate from raising such irrelevant questions.

 However, during her cross-examination by advocate by a co-accused before   district court in February, the rape survivor got 11 such questions which could have been traumatic or humiliating for her to answer. Every time, the court intervened and restrained the advocate from putting such scandalous questions to the witness.
 
 The accused moved   high court against all the orders passed by the trial court restricting her advocate from asking the humiliating questions. It was argued that the trial court was denying the right to a fair trial.
 
 However, the HC was not ready to accept the contention and rejected the plea to allow the questioning. Instead the HC has asked the trial court to continue to be vigilant so that defence advocates do not disturb the witness, who happens to be the rape survivor. Justice J B Pardiwala quoted various orders on courts’ requirement to be strict on defence side to protect victims during rape trials and said, “It is very much necessary for the trial court to effectively control the cross-examination and restrain the defence, if need be, from indulging in pointless and gruelling cross-examination. In this case, the witness is the victim herself. The charge is one of rape. It would not be appropriate to put indecent or scandalous questions to the victim.”
 
 The HC further said that the defence cannot be permitted to put such questions so as to test the veracity of the survivor. The court has a duty to ensure that the cross-examination is not made a means of harassment or causing humiliation to the witness.
 
 The court also cited sections 151 and 152 of the Evidence Act and said that indecent and scandalous questions intended to insult or annoy witnesses are forbidden. “If they are put merely to shake the credit of the witness, the court has complete dominion over them and to forbid them even though they may have some bearing on the questions before the court,” the HC observed.
 
 Asaram and six others, including his wife, daughter and followers, are facing trial for rape, conspiracy and abetment after a former follower went to the police in 2013 filed a complaint for rape, allegedly committed 12 years earlier.
 
 
