HYDERABAD: The worsening cash crunch in Telangana and   has forced banks to move cash from neighbouring states over the past two months to replenish ATMs and disburse money to customers waiting in snaking queues at their branches.

 While Telangana had to ship in cash from Maharashtra and Kerala, Andhra Pradesh did so from Odisha and Tamil Nadu. So severe is the cash crunch that despite efforts made by banks to replenish cash, currency is available in ATMs of big banks only 60 per cent of the time on any given day, while some banks have stopped ATM services for the past three months.
 
  
  
 
 Social security pensioners like Aasara and National Rural Employment Guarantee Act works too have been hit in Telangana as people have to visit post offices multiple times for money as they get their money supply from banks.
 
 
  
 
 There is also a severe shortage of Rs 2,000 denomination currency notes as they are neither being supplied by the   since September 2017 to banks nor are they coming back from customers in the form of deposits.
 
 “With the approval of RBI we moved cash from Maharashtra and Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala to Hyderabad to tackle the situation of accelerated withdrawals from ATMs and bank branches in January and February, but did not do so in March. We usually try to ensure that cash is available in ATMs at least 94 per cent of the time. Post demonetisation, following the cash crunch, we had taken several measures to ensure that ATMs had cash available for at least 85 per cent of the time but in January 2018, this came down to 70 per cent and is now hovering around 60 per cent,” State Bank of India’s (SBI) Hyderabad circle chief general manager   J told TOI.
 
 SBI has 2,200 ATMs, of which 1,500 are operated and maintained by the bank and 700 are maintained by third parties with the cash being supplied by SBI. However, currently only 1,400 to 1,500 of its ATMs are operational.
 
  
  
 
 “There are no deposits of Rs 2,000 notes by customers, and we have the least reserves of Rs 2,000 currency notes,” Swaminathan said, adding that Reserve Bank of India is primarily supplying Rs 200 and Rs 500 denomination notes.
 
 “We have most of the government salary accounts with us. Post offices and treasuries also have to be supplied cash for the Aasara social security pension. Every month, Rs 290 crore has to be given to post offices for Aasara. There are instances of people visiting post offices multiple times for their pensions and NREGA wages,” he pointed out.
 
 An analysis of transactions revealed that members of the salaried class, who usually draw only R s5,000 to Rs 10,000 in the first phase of every month have begun withdrawing the entire amount from ATMs immediately after salary is credited.
 
 Also banks putting an indent for cash requirements to Reserve Bank of India are getting only 50 to 60 per cent of the money they have sought.
 
 
 
 
 
