Nagpur: At Ward No. 10 of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), there is a stream of visitors for Rajendra Thakre. The farmer from Lohara village in Umrer tehsil, who axed a leopard along with his cousin Ravindra two days ago, recounts the encounter with a dispirited expression. The beast had strayed into their farm and was reportedly killed in self-defence. Farmers with land near the forest remain in the fields many nights, to guard standing crop from herbivores like deer and wild boar. It was at day break, after one of their usual night duties, that Ravindra found a leopard on his farm and summoned his cousin for help. Never before had a big cat come so close. However, a day after the cousins killed a leopard, there was a cattle kill in the village by another leopard, says Rajendra. Some days ago, a sheep belonging to the herdsman was also taken away by a leopard, added one of the visitors at the hospital.  “The forest officials had told us that a hungry leopard was lurking in the area, and it ended up on my cousin’s farm. Farmers usually carry an axe to the fields, which came handy that day,” said Rajendra. The leopard had caught hold of Rajendra’s forearm in its jaw, and Ravindra frantically assaulted it with an axe, finally killing the animal. Ravindra, who suffered minor injuries, has been discharged and is back at his village. “We had no intention of killing the animal. I rushed there after I heard my cousin’s screams. He said there was a leopard hiding in the bushes. The plan was to just free the bullocks tied to a stump, so that the leopard does not harm them. However, before we could do that, the leopard swiftly pounced on me and grabbed my arm. Ravindra, who had an axe, began striking the leopard,” said Rajendra. “The loss of a bullock would have been compensated by the government, but only after a long wait. We need a replacement immediately to carry on the work. Buying a new one costs a fortune,” he said. “I was shocked and could not even scream out of fear after the leopard grabbed my arm. I had lost hopes of surviving, but my cousin reacted. We hoped that it would leave us and escape, but its jaws remained locked till the animal was finally dead. It took seven to eight blows to finally kill it,” he said. The duo straightaway reported the matter to forest officials, he said. They claimed to have asked for help from the forest officials to take them to hospital. However, the foresters first went to the spot, and the cousins rushed to Umred, nearly 7km away, on a motorcycle by themselves. “The doctors at Umred gave us first aid and asked us to rush to GMCH Nagpur, thankfully an ambulance was available there and we could reach here,” said Rajendra. Ravindra, who is now back in the village, sounded a bit proud about his act, and had a slightly different version of he story. “Before my cousin and others rushed to help, I managed to dodge the leopard for nearly half an hour. Finally, when it attacked, I grabbed it by the neck. The leopard could not overpower me, but got hold of my cousin later,” he said. “Somehow, I got the inner strength to hit the leopard. Had it been me in the place of Rajendra, perhaps no one would have come to save me,” he said. Ravindra says he too is scared to go to the fields now.