The practice of fermentation has long been used in ancient India to improve food’s nutritional value, enhance medicinal properties and increase it’s palatability.   (yoghurt, idlis, vadas, dosas, pancakes, pickles, kanji, rabdi and dhoklas {for the Gujju in me}) are essential additions in traditional dietary practices. The question arises about their functional benefits, their advantages in cardiovascular health and overall wellbeing.
Fermented foods have recently been even given the label of super foods. You will see a fitness aficionado’s diet sheet full of yoghurt smoothies, yoghurt parfaits, buttermilk and idli/ dosas.
 
 Studies link decreased cardiovascular morbidity, better mental health and improved metabolism to fermented foods. The essential microbiota in fermented foods is“THE GOOD BACTERIA” which cleanses your colon, decreases inflammation in intestinal walls and generally improve the function of the digestive system. Probiotics have also been known to increase HDL cholesterol, decrease blood pressure and slow down process of atherosclerosis by correcting the gut micro biome dysregulation so as to help in reducing obesity and blood sugar levels.
 
 Prebiotics and probiotics are like the 
  They provide better immunity against infections and also help in the prevention of chronic inflammatory diseases including Heart disease,   and Cancer.
 So fermented foods should be an essential component of your diet particularly if you have a weak stomach, poor immunity and are prone to allergies. It’s health benefits are unquestioned and provide a decent content of complex sugars, lacto-proteins, natural antibiotics and vitamins like Riboflavin, thiamine, biotin and Vitamin K2. 
 
 A word of caution- Fermented food is the mystique between fresh and rotten, they are more prone to contagion, so home preparation has a big advantage to commercially available products.
 
 As Ayurveda proclaims that the stomach is the seat of all diseases, it is essential to turn back to traditional Indian practices and incorporate our ancestor’s diet in our life to stay healthy.
 
 
 
 
