NEW DELHI: The Centre and the PDP-BJP coalition government in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) have decided to tackle the Valley's long-standing problem of stone pelting by Kashmiri youth against the   with the help of sports.

 Giving a push to its efforts to use sports as a tool to wean Kashmiri youngsters away from militancy, the sports ministry has finally decided to open a state-of-the-art training centre in Srinagar. This centre, to be run by the   (SAI), will be set up on the lines of   (NSNIS) in Patiala - Asia's largest sports institute- at an approximate cost of Rs100 crore.
 
 TOI has exclusively accessed a draft prepared by SAI, Delhi where a proposal was mooted on Fridaytodevelop theexisting SAI centre in the Valley into a worldclass training academy for athletes, equipped with modern technology and having provision for both indoor and outdoor sports activities. The SAI centre will have a residential academy for national campers, where the athletes preparing for multi-sports events can train. It will also doubleup as a nursery for scouting promising talent from the J&K region under the government's Special Area Games (SAG) scheme. SAI would appoint its talent spotters to unearth talent from the region so as to develop the state into a hub of sports activity.
 
 Apart from imparting training in Olympic and non-Olympic disciplines, the centre will also appoint local coaches, who can spread the message of peace and sports among the Valley's youth.
 
 NIS diploma holder coaches would also be appointed at the centre to impart coaching to the local sportspersons under the sports ministry's 'coaching the coaches' programme.
 
 A specialised team of SAI officials and coachesfrom theNIS Patiala has made multiple visits to Srinagar to give a final shape to the project and help in early opening of the centre.
 
 The central government has already sanctionedRs200crore as a special package to develop sports infrastructure in the state. The ministry has reportedly released Rs 88 lakh for the development of sports under the ' ' scheme to   (DPS), Srinagar and Degree College, Pulwama last year.
 
 J&K women's football team's captain  , whose photo of pelting stones at the police personnellast year had gone viral on the social media, had recently sought the central government's assistancetodevelop a SAI centre in Kashmir to inspire young girlslike her totakeup thebeautiful game of football.
 
 For the purpose, Afshan had even met Union Home Minister  , following which the state government intervened and assured to improve the sports infrastructure in the Valley to promote women's football.
 
 
