Madurai: That Madurai district’s green cover is one of the worst in the country and that of the city far from satisfactory is well-known. Residents only need to check as to how many roads have trees lined up on the sides to realise how grim the scenario is. Suffice it to say that the insufficient greenery is responsible for the all-pervasive dust that has come to characterise the district and the searing heat during summer. The only exception to this general rule seems to be Thirunagar which has an impressive tree cover.

 Anna Nagar main road had many trees lining it some two decades ago and walking on the stretch had a soothing effect. But now, with many HIG and   houses dotting the stretch, the greenery has given way to commercial complexes and the road has almost turned a barren stretch for about 2 kilometres. If Chokkikulam shows green on the map, it is mainly owing to its large houses with gardens. Eco Park in Madurai is one place in the northern part of the city where people still get an opportunity to walk under a canopy as it has many large trees which are about 20 years old. The same cannot be said of its neighbour, the Rajaji Park. Builders too do not encourage tree plantation saying that it would damage the foundation of buildings. In fact, trees have been felled in Anna Nagar for road expansion.
 
 In this backdrop, it is worth noting that Madurai’s smart city programme concentrates entirely on the heart of the city, around the Meenakshi temple. However, in the absence of trees people would have to bear the sun if they intend to walk around the ancient part of the city. ``All cities that boast of their ancient sites also have a rich tree coverage to enable people to walk around and have a good experience, but that is not the case in Madurai,’’ says Geetha who frequently hosts foreign students under exchange programmes.
 
 D Raghavan, a retired bank employee, says that Gandhi Museum road from the telegraph office, Dr Thangaraj Salai and around the Mariamman teppakulam are places which could be potential areas for planting trees as they once had rich canopies. ``But in the recently developed areas the roads are less than 20 feet wide at many places and hence they cannot have big trees,’’ he said.
 
 Thirunagar, the 98th ward of the corporation, is an environment lover’s dream as you could walk from the first bus stop to the eighth under a canopy of trees without feeling the heat even on the hottest summer days. Advocate M Gururaj, a resident of Thirunagar, says that the well-planned layout of the town is the main reason for this. ``It was late chief minister Kamarajar who wanted to replicate the layout of Anna Nagar in Chennai, in Madurai. He sanctioned the Thirunagar colony way back in 1960 for the   workers co-operative society, and it came into being,’’ he said..
 
 All roads are at least 60 feet wide, leaving ample space for trees to spread their canopies. ``But the biggest advantage is that all the electric poles in Thirunagar are in the middle of the road, and hence they do not disturb the trees and the trees do not disturb the electricity,’’ he said. Houses too are planned with the A type houses built on plots of 33 cents while the D sized ones are on 7.5 cents and almost all the houses have gardens. 
 
