PANAJI: Panchayats minister Mauvin Godinho, who is accused in the alleged Rs 4.5-crore power rebate  , has said he will go through the process of law after   upheld the order of the high court of Bombay at Goa that had directed framing of charges against him and others.

 Chief minister Manohar  , as an opposition leader in 1998, had filed a complaint against the then power minister and his current cabinet colleague Godinho.
 
 “Full recovery of loss has already taken place. Once it comes on the record of the court that the money has been recovered, then where is the case. One has to go through the process of law and I will face it. That does not make one guilty,” Godinho told TOI.
 
 He said the matter was sub judice and for technical reasons, the Supreme Court has referred the case to the special court.
 
 Parrikar, in 1998 when he was in the opposition and Godinho was the power minister, had filed a complaint with the crime branch.
 
 Initially, a special court had ordered framing of charges against Godinho and others in 2006 for corruption, forgery, cheating, criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy, which was challenged in the high court.
 
 A few of these charges were dropped by the high court in 2007, but it found that there was prima facie material for framing of charges against all the accused that included the government officials and two companies.
 
 Godinho and others had then been directed by the high court to face trial for criminal conspiracy and obtaining pecuniary advantage by abusing position as a public servant under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.
 
 The high court order was challenged in the Supreme Court.
 
 Godinho’s lawyer argued before the Supreme Court that the high court erred in not taking into account that the complaint against the accused was filed by a political opponent and leveled charges that are “mala fide, misconceived and concocted with a view to scoring political vendetta”.
 
 But the Supreme Court rejected these arguments. “In the light of sequence of events, prima facie, it cannot be said that no case can be made out against the accused appellants. Allegedly, the notification dated 15-15-1996 and 1-8-1996 were issued without the approval of the cabinet and by violation of rules,” a division bench of the Supreme Court comprising justices N V Ramana and S Abdul Nazeer observed.
 
 The Supreme Court also noted that there is no error in framing of charges by the high court, when presumably the material on record obligated the court to do so.
 
 
