KOCHI: Before Thiruvarur native Kasthuri Mahalingam left the hotel to appear for NEET, he told his father   (46) that he would see him soon. His father was unable to accompany him as he had experienced chest pain and minutes later Srinivasan died after a cardiac arrest as his son waited at the exam hall for the test.

 
 The librarian and his son had left Thiruvarur on Friday evening and reached here on Saturday morning. “He had complained of chest pain the previous night and said that it would be fine the next day. But it worsened and I had to drop his son at the exam centre,” said VP Murugiyan, the receptionist at Hotel Airlines in Ernakulam where the father and son were staying. Murugiyan was also a close friend of Srinivasan from his native town.
 
 Murugiyan dropped Mahalingam at  , at 7am. When he returned, Srinivasan wanted to go to a hospital. “We first went to Krishna Hospital but there was no doctor there. I rushed him to  , where medical care was given immediately; but they couldn’t save him,” he said. The body was shifted to Government Hospital’s mortuary.
 
 Hospital staff said Srinivasan had hypertension and diabetes and had not taken his medication for the past couple of days as he forgot to bring them to Ernakulam and this had probably worsened his condition. Officials with the district administration were informed about the incident and they picked up Murugiyan to inform the boy about his father’s demise.
 
 But due to the tense situation outside the school, as parents were upset due to the delay in starting the exam, Murugiyan couldn’t meet Mahalingam. Later, an official with the district administration took Mahalingam to the hospital in a police vehicle. The boy was told that his father was in a hospital after he developed physical discomfort. Collector K Mohammed Y Safirulla told him that his father was admitted to ICU. Later, Srinivasan’s relatives reached here at 3.30 pm and Mahalingam was informed of his father’s death.
 
 The body was taken in an ambulance arranged by the district authorities after 4 pm. A police pilot vehicle will be accompanying them to Thiruvarur.
 
