NAGPUR:   was known for his poetry that was simple in nature but powerful in content. His compositions, set to tune by the who’s who of the Marathi music industry, were brought alive with matching performances by local singers at Vidarbha Sahitya Sangh Sabhagruh, Sitabuldi, on Tuesday.

 ‘Hasle Mani Chandane’, organized jointly by Nagpur Municipal Corporation and Vidarbha Sahitya Sangh, took the audience to the golden era of Marathi music in which Badhe had carved a niche for himself. He was basking in glory as top singers like Kumar Gandharv, Lata Mangeshkar, Asha Bhosle, Manik Verma and Malti Pande sang his poems which became instant hit in the late fifties. 
 
 The programme was organized to mark the naming of a square after Badhe near CP & Berar College, Mahal. 
 
 Tracing the life of Badhe, anchor Renuka Deshkar said though a master in his own way, the late Badhe was a simpleton which was reflected in his poems. He worked in a newspaper at Pune and later joined All India Radio, Mumbai. But it was in Nagpur that he first made name. Born in February 1912, Badhe believed in changing the perspective of writing poems. And he did it with aplomb, Deshkar said. 
 
 Badhe also wrote songs for Marathi movie ‘Ram Rajya’ and Bollywood movie ‘Anguri’. He also launched Sarita Chitra and Swananda Chitra. 
 
 Starting the show, Bhagyashri Baraskar presented ‘Hasle mani chandane’, made immortal by Manik Verma. Singers Gunwant Ghatwai, Manjiri Vaidya-Iyer and Baraskar presented ‘Kashi re tula bhetu’, ‘Prem kele’, ‘Tya chittchortyala’, ‘De malage chandrike priti tujhi’, ‘Kona kashi kalavi’, ‘Chandne shimpit jashi’, ‘Leu kashi valkala, ‘Kalidar kapuri paan’ and ‘Garja Maharashtra majha’, besides others that kept the audience glued to seats. 
 
 The accompanying artistes were Mahendra Dhole, Moreshwar Dahasahasra, Amar Shende and Vikarm Joshi.
 
 Mayor   and Manohar Mhaisalkar were the chief guests. Sandip Joshi, Virendra Kukreja, Ashwin Mudgal and   were present. 
 
 (Reporting by Tejas Mundhada)
 
 
