LUCKNOW: A word of caution for revellers from chief minister  , unprecedented initiatives by his government and alert policing saw a record dip in group clashes during   this year. 

 
  
  
 
 
 In all, 14 incidents of group clashes, including some of communal nature, were reported from across UP on Holi, as compared to an average of over 60 similar incidents reported every year since 2013, as per the statistics available with the office of the director general of police (DGP), UP.
 
 With the   coinciding with Friday afternoon prayers, the state administration found itself on tenterhooks anticipating that mischief mongers could use the occasion to trigger communal clashes. The CM addressed top police and administrative officials through   on February 26, directing them to meet senior members of all communities to see if the Friday Namaaz timings could be shifted. He also directed that mosques be covered if required, so that no one could throw colour on them to vitiate the atmosphere.
 
 Following this, in almost all districts of the state community elders convinced the Ulemas to push the timings of Friday prayers. The move went a long way in preventing confrontation between the two communities. 
 
 "This was perhaps the first time that the peace committees comprising respectable elders from different communities were engaged for such an exercise and eventually the clerics agreed to shift the Namaaz timings," said retired IPS and former UP DGP  .
 
 
 
 
 Notonly this, the CM — who was in Gorakhpur on Holi — remained constantly in touch with the state home and police department for updates. His warning that district officials will be held responsible for any untoward incident within their jurisdiction also kept officials on their toes.
 
 “Apart from adhering to the directions of the CM in letter and spirit, we focused on optimum use of manpower and other resources for the festival,” said DGP OP Singh, who not only cancelled leave of all the men in uniform but also engaged officers from non-district posting departments.
 
