PANAJI:   FC must be doing something right that has helped them win the Nike Premier Cup, a national   football tournament, for three successive years.
 
  Minerva Punjab FC also contributed players to the Fifa U-17 World Cup last year after stunning the national team in a friendly, and are now close to winning their first I-League title just a year after making their debut.
  
  But first the success at the U-15 level. After struggling in the semi-finals where they needed the luck of the tiebreaker to edge past Aizawl FC, Minerva Punjab stamped their class with an emphatic 4-0 win over   in the final at the   in Bambolim on Thursday.
  
  Watched by technical director Savio Medeira, Indian Arrows coach Luis Norton de Matos and national team director  , Minerva Punjab put on a strong display to outplay their opponents from start to finish.
  
  In the stands, two players cheered lustily; India’s only goalscorer at the Fifa U-17 World Cup   and defender Sanjeev Stalin could have been thinking of themselves. Both were part of Minerva in the past and helped them attract attention. Maybe, some from the current squad will also go far.
  
  Notably, keep your eyes wide open for Moirangthem Thoiba Singh. The Minerva captain scored twice in the final, after Lalchhanhima Sailo opened the account and Hemam Bijio Singh hammered the final nail. Minerva led 1-0 at the breather.
  
  DSK didn’t have much of a chance even though the likes of Bhuvanesh Shendre, Zamlunmang and John Lalfamkima all went close with their attempts.
  
  Minerva started strongly and made it clear that they meant business. They were dominant enough to let everyone know that a goal was round the corner. True to form, it came in the 14th minute when midfielder Lalchhanhima Sailo cut in from the right and took his time before unleashing a left-footer that found the back of the net.
  
  DSK Shivajians started the second half on a better note and had it been for better finishing, could have drawn level. Minerva made their rivals pay for those misses with a gem of a goal just after the half an hour mark as Isra Khan swung in a delightful cross which was headed home by Thoiba.
  
  Minerva’s third came from the spot as Sailo won a penalty which Thoiba converted, while Bijio Singh tapped home from close range for the fourth goal.
