Ranchi: Hotels and pubs across the state capital have arranged for special screenings for the 11th edition of the Indian Premier League ( ) that began on Saturday. From cricket themed menus to special drinks named after star cricketers, the   lovers in Ranchi have a lot to look ahead to this cricket season. 

 Kaustubh Sur, the director (sales and marketing) of Ranchi’s only five-star hotel, located at Kadru Diversion, said that their pub will host special screenings for all the matches of IPL this year. He said, “Our bar is sports themed, so naturally, we have planned an extravaganza for cricket enthusiasts this IPL. From Dhoni’s helicopter shot chicken tikka to Virat’s Straight Drive Chilli Chicken, our menu is customised as per the moods of the cricketing season.”
 
 And it is not just the food that is being renamed. Drinks menu across various sports bars and pubs have also been tweaked to celebrate the IPL season. Additional offers and special discounts are being provided to lure in the customers.
 
 The pub will offer coloured shots matched with the jersey colors of the teams. “The customers get to choose a colour of the tequila-based shooters for the team they support. The winning team supporters will get a 50% discount on the final bill, making it a fun activity for the viewers,” added Sur.
 
 An executive food manager at a city-based hotel near the railway station, Ashit Kundu, said, “In most large cities, watching IPL in a social setup is like a ritual for many. We have arranged for special screens for the matches and there are offers on food and drinks for the viewers.” 
 
 Interestingly, only three matches of the coveted IPL were hosted in the city’s JSCA international stadium till date. All of these matches drew crowds of over 20,000 cricket enthusiasts. Ranchi’s JSCA cricket stadium was named the second home ground for Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) in 2013. 
 
 Ashutosh Singh, a city based engineer and a cricket enthusiast, said, “All my weekends in the IPL season are reserved for enjoying matches. As an ardent Dhoni fan, my loyalties lie with Chennai Super Kings (CSK).” Singh added that he had his first IPL evening planned almost two weeks ago. “We now have many sports bars in Ranchi. I have booked a place to enjoy the first IPL match between CSK and Mumbai Indians with two of my friends,” he said.
 
 Talking about the screening of the matches post 11pm, Sur informed that as per regulations venues can remain open till the match ends but they will stop serving liquor after 11pm. “The viewers can stay and watch the match till its end, but according to the rules, no orders will be taken after 11pm,” he said.
 
 
