BENGALURU: A   has alleged that she was illegally detained and harassed by two people, including a journalist in Belagavi city during her pregnancy, and has approached Bengaluru Rural police seeking legal action against them.

 Avalahalli police, Hoskote town, Bengaluru Rural district, have registered a case against the journalist and his advocate-friend based on Dr Sumsin Fathima’s February 19 complaint and transferred the case to their counterparts in Belagavi city owing to jurisdictional issues. The case has been booked under various IPC sections, including for voluntarily causing hurt, wrongful confinement, cheating and criminal intimidation.
 
 Citing from the complaint, police said Dr   met Dr   from Bagalkote district in a Bengaluru hospital, where they worked; they married in 2016. Her father, however, filed a police complaint, saying his daughter was missing.
 
 
 
 
 In April 2017, Dr Fathima came to know that her husband was already married. Nayak’s first wife filed a criminal case against him and Fathima in Mudhol police station over the second marriage. Nayak was arrested and spent eight days in jail before being released on bail.
 
 Meanwhile, Manjunath Patil, who is a Kannada TV news channel journalist and is from Nayak’s village, assured the couple he’d help get the case against them resolved and the missing person case closed.
 
 “I rushed to Belagavi, where he introduced me to  , an advocate. They demanded Rs 1.5 lakh to telecast news favouring us. I paid them Rs 1.4 lakh by pledging my jewellery in Belagavi. My husband paid the duo another Rs 2.4 lakh to get the Mudhol case closed. These payments were made in May 2017. But they did nothing to stand by their word. Under police pressure, my husband went to his hometown. I stayed in a PG accommodation for a few days,” Dr Fathima said in her complaint.
 
 When Dr Fathima demanded the money back, she was taken to Manjunath Patil’s residence. “I was assaulted and abused even though I was pregnant. They kept me in captivity for nearly a week during July that year,” she said.
 
 Meanwhile, Avalahalli police who were pursuing the missing person complaint, landed in Belagavi. “I was taken to Bengaluru and the missing person case against me was closed,” she said. Fathima said she couldn’t file a complaint on time as she delivered a baby on November 12, 2017.
 
 
