

 
 
 No government has failed in just the first year of its term as the one led by Yogi Adityanath. It has failed to make any impact. In the first year, all the funds went in waiving loans of farmers, which is not yet complete. In the second year, with a budget of over Rs 4.5 lakh crore, not a single new project or social welfare programme has taken off.
 
 
 
 If you do not believe me, go through the newspaper reports. Why are cane cultivators burning their crop? Why has the government not been able to clear cane dues, which have now risen to Rs 10,000 crore? As for the loan waiver, the government itself is saying that even half of the targeted 86 lakh farmers have not benefited yet.
 
 
 
 
 This is the biggest crime the state is perpetrating on people by picking up suspect criminals from their homes and shooting them down. If you study the records closely, only a few castes are being targeted. All encounters would be investigated once Samajwadi Party is voted back to power. In the   case, everyone from the thana level to the top trying to cover up were from the same caste.
 
 People tell me that you will be a target too. But I am undeterred. “Chahe jitna atyachar karle BJP, hum Chambal ke rahne waale hain, darne wale nahi hai” (We are not scared of any government crackdown. We hail from Chambal, the land of valour and courage. We will not be cowed down by any intimidation)
 
 
 
 
 I am being forced to do so to counter BJP’s casteist, communal and religious agenda. I always believed in development. But the unsavoury language of BJP’s leadership has forced me to retaliate in the same way. How can a chief minister, who has taken oath under the Constitution, brandish himself to be a Hindu, refusing to celebrate festivals and rituals of other religions. Didn’t they dare brand us “saapchhachunder” (snake and mole) and used abusive language to target us? Now that we have joined hands with the BSP, BJP is clueless, left with less than 20% of the electorate to vote for them.
 
 
 
 
 The alliance is energized. We are working on a joint strategy to defeat the BJP in UP in 2019. For this, we will adjust accordingly.
 
 
 
 
 The time is not ripe yet to disclose our strategy.
 
 
 
 I would describe SP’s win with BSP’s support in Gorakhpur and Phulpur to be a turning point in national politics.
 
 
 
 Netaji (Mulayam Singh Yadav) is an astute politician who has always had his ear to the ground and understands the nuances. He can sense that people are determined to dislodge the BJP.
 
 
 
 
 BJP leaders have opium in one pocket and chloroform in the other to sedate voters. They have done this in the past. But it won’t work this time. We have finally found the glue to bind voters, and their actions will be countered.
 
 
 
 
 To forge good relations with the US, the NDA government had agreed on working to create a cashless economy during then-US president Barack Obama’s visit. To benefit the US and Indian businessmen, the   government strongly advocated a cashless economic system. The demonetisation policy of the Modi government was also aimed at promoting and favouring US credit card companies. It never helped India’s poor.
 
