SHAHJAHANPUR: A Dalit man who was beaten up — along with his family members — by his neighbours over a property dispute in   village under   police station on December 3 succumbed to his injuries on Sunday night.
 
  Deceased Laljeet’s wife   and their two sons Jagmohan and   were grievously injured after they were allegedly assaulted by Rajendra, Ajeet and Azad.
  
  Rajkumari alleged that police, initially, tried to force them to sign a compromise letter, and refused to file an FIR, but when they raised the issue with senior officials, an FIR was registered under IPC section 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) and the accused were taken into custody. However, the accused were released soon by Sindhauli police without any paperwork, the kin alleged.
  
  Nine-year-old Jagmohan told TOI, “I was abused by policemen at Sindhauli police station when I asked them to take action against the accused.”
  
    had around four bighas adjacent to the plot of Rajendra and Ajeet. “The accused were trying to grab a portion of our field. When my husband opposed it, he was brutally beaten up by them. When we tried to save him, they attacked us too in the presence of villagers,” alleged Rajkumari
  
  After a Dial 100 team was informed, the victims were sent to the district hospital. Laljeet was later referred to a Lucknow-based hospital on the instructions of the district magistrate as his condition had started deteriorating.
  
  “In the absence of financial support, we brought him back to the Shahjahanpur district hospital, where he died on Sunday night,” said Rajkumari.
  
  “The accused have grabbed our land in connivance with police, and also harvested our cane crop when we were away for the treatment of my husband. The accused are roaming freely in the village, but police never tried to arrest them. When we approached police with our demand to arrest them, we were abused. Now, I am worried about the future of my children,” Rajkumari told TOI.
  
  Powayan circle officer   told TOI, “We will definitely take action, and will also ensure that the accused are arrested at the earliest. If a police officer is found guilty, then action will be taken against him as well.”
