PATNA: A   was shot dead near   village under Taraiya police station in Saran district on Saturday night.

  Krishna Mohan Tiwary (42) had reached Saran on January 8 to attend rituals of last rites of one of his relatives at his native place   village under   police station in the district.
 
 Taraiya police station   Ajay Kumar Singh said that Tiwary had gone to one of his uncles' residence at Mashrakh and the incident took place while he was returning.
 
 “Tiwary was project engineer working for a construction firm in Bangalore. He had reached Saran on January 8 and was scheduled to leave after Sunday. He had a financially sound background,” the SHO said.
 
 “He was returning alone on a bike. Some villagers said that two bike-borne suspects reached near the engineer and shot him from a very close range,” the SHO said. He said personal enmity with the engineer seems to be one of the prime reasons behind the murder as no attempt to loot was made by suspects.
 
 He said that the techie fell down on road and died on spot. “The bullet entered in his thorax from right side of his chest and perhaps damaged his vital internal organs resulting death,” the SHO said.
 
 He said that Tiwary was rushed to a private hospital, but was declared brought dead. He said that the reasons of the killing were yet unknown.
 
 “The deceased’s younger brother Munna Tiwary submitted a written complaint on the basis of which an FIR was lodged against unknown persons for murder with the Taraiya police station,” he said.
 
 The SHO also said that the pellet of .315 bore was extracted from the deceased’s body during post-mortem which is generally used by criminals in country-made weapons. The techie was married twice.
 
 “He got married for first time in 1996 and has a 17-year-old daughter born out of the wedlock. The estranged wife lives at Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh with her daughter for the last several years. He again got married in 2010 with a woman belonging to his native place and had a son and a daughter from her,” the SHO said. He said further probe was on in connection with the killing.
 
