Kolkata: The Central Board of Film Certification’s Kolkata office is in the middle of turmoil. While one director shot off an email to   chief Prasoon Joshi on Wednesday alleging harassment for 76 days since he applied for online certification, another complained to Eastern India Motion Pictures Association (EIMPA) accusing regional officer Samrat Bandopadhyay of threatening him. 

 Some relief, however, came on Thursday when a group of producers called up TOI to appreciate the swiftness with which CBFC’s Kolkata office is now working.
 
 Tapas Dutta, director of ‘Mon Chhuye Jae’, had applied for certification on December 27 and got it on Thursday. This, he said, was a contrast to how his earlier film, ‘Shankarbabu Ex-Minister’, had been waiting for re-certification since 2015 when Bhaswar Gangopadhyay was regional officer. 
 
 Sudipto Banerjee, director-producer-actor of ‘Aloukik Jyotish’, went home happy on Thursday with the certificate for his film pending since October. The cut verification for Narayan Chandra Das’s ‘Shudhu Tomari Protikhya’ was done on Thursday though applied for in August. Dayashankar Gupta, producer of ‘Pratighat’, and Indira Roychowdhury, producer of ‘Ishq Bewafa’, both said Bandopadhyay began the certification process on Thursday.
 
 “It’s our duty to do the work,” Bandopadhyay said but refused to entertain questions on unflattering reactions from aggrieved directors.
 
 Requesting Joshi’s intervention, director Saumya Sengupta of the K C Paul documentary titled ‘The Geocentric Man’, emailed saying “the regional officer informed that he still has no update on the comments we received and gave us no explanation on what we need to do to get the censor certificate. Moreover, he misbehaved with us and turned us down saying he is too busy to deal with us right now”.
 
 Ranjan Chowdhury, director of ‘Chirodiner Ek Onnyo Premer Golpo’, who was unofficially told to mute the word ‘Musalman’ in his film, said: “I complained to EIMPA because the regional officer threatened me for speaking to the media on this issue. But he didn’t have any time to answer my question.”
 
 
