Kolkata: The CBI has registered an FIR against RP Infosystems for defrauding a consortium of banks that includes Punjab National Bank. This is the first case registered in the city dealing with   after the Nirav Modi-PNB case broke. 
 
 The consortium of 17 banks has alleged that the city-based company has defrauded them of Rs 515 crore. This was done by availing bank funds on the basis of false and fabricated stock/debtor statements and forged drawing-power letters. Other than PNB, the consortium includes SBI, Canara Bank, OBC, Central Bank, Allahabad Bank and Federal Bank, among others. Canara Bank, SBI, Central Bank and PNB have the highest exposure. 
  
 Central Bank has a Rs 82 crore exposure while for PNB, it is Rs 73 crore and Canara Bank Rs 81 crore. After Canara Bank registered a formal complaint on February 26 against RP Infosystems, which manufactures and trades in desktops and laptops under brand name ‘Chirag’, CBI raided several places in Kolkata, Howrah and North 24 Parganas. 
  
 Among those named in the preliminary FIR are the company’s four directors, including Shivaji Panja, Kaustav Roy and Vinay Bafna. They said: “We have cooperated with CBI earlier and will cooperate with them this time, too. We do not know much about the new case and are talking to lawyers.” 
  
  Canara Bank financed a working capital limit of Rs 40 crore. “We were not the leader of the consortium. The leader bank had already filed a case with CBI in May 2015. The account had been treated as fraud by our bank during October 2015 and reported to RBI,” it said. 
  
 After the leader bank relinquished its consortium role as directed by CBI (BS&FC) Kolkata, Canara Bank was authorised by other member banks to file a revised complaint with CBI, it added. This was done on February 26, 2018, the statement said. 
  
 The FIR alleges that Letters of Credit (LC) opened by various consortium members on the applications of the company started devolving from 2012 due to non-maintainenance of funds. The company inflated its receivables. Some of the purported debtors had informed the nationalized bank that they had no dealings with ‘Chirag’, says the FIR. 
  
  
