CHENNAI: The blinding sun has little effect on 17-year-old Sangeetha as she wipes the sweat off her brow — the rickety goalpost ahead, she imagines, is her gateway to freedom.

 It was the same emotion she felt when she stood at the gates of a corporation school four years ago. “Our experience on the street is what drives us on the field,” said Sangeetha, who was raised by her mother on Chennai’s streets.
 
 Sangeetha, who was rescued from a utensil-making unit on Wall Tax Road in 2014, will lead a team of nine girls like her from the city to play at the Street Child (Football) World Cup, 2018, scheduled to be held in Moscow (Russia) from May 10 to 17.
 
 Everyone in the team, trained by volunteers of non-profit organisation  , has a tale of grit and determination. Midfielder Gomathi, 15, whose family had been living in the open for three generations, found a way to attend evening classes hoping to save her mother someday from her father’s thrashing. 
 
 Shalini, 17, the squad’s vice-captain, had fled from her mother, who worked as a rag-picker in  , when she tried to marry her off to a 30-year-old man to clear a debt. Tired of being abused by her alcoholic parents, defender Nirosha, who until three years ago didn’t know what it felt like to have a roof over her head, was determined to steer her own destiny by enrolling herself in a school.
 
 For these teenage girls, dribbling, kicking and shooting the ball is a catharsis of sorts. “They are tough women,” said D Kannadasan, who coached them for more than a year. A former street child himself, Kannadasan had represented India at the Street Child World Cup held in Brazil in 2014. He said when he first interacted with them, some of the girls barely spoke beyond mere acknowledgements. Within a year, the change was evident. “They are naturally strong mentally and physically. Life on the streets does that to you,” said Kannadasan, who fled from his family in Vaniyambadi. “All they needed was to channelise this the right way,” he said.
 
 While five of these girls live in the shelter run by Karunalaya, the others live with their parents on the streets. They have been undergoing training every morning at Madras Port Trust ground near Tondiarpet from 6am to 7.30am.
 
 The Street Child World Cup is a global movement that is held ahead of FIFA World Cup every four years. The team from India will slug it out with 24 other teams consisting of children with backgrounds similar to theirs. They will also be attending other sessions to voice concerns related to   in their respective countries.
 
 The Team from Chennai will talk about the challenges they face in getting government documents. “Two of the nine girls don’t have a birth certificate,” said   of Karunalaya. “Many of them find it difficult to get admission in schools because their families don’t have community or birth certificates. This makes it difficult for them to access various concessions in education and scholarships to higher education,” he said.
 
 
