MYSURU: After weeks of speculation, the news has finally been confirmed: Marker pens will not be used in the  . The marker pens, which were touted to replace   that has been used for more than five decades in all government elections across the country, will not make their electoral debut in Karnataka.

 Karnataka’s chief electoral officer on Friday asked   and Varnish Ltd (MPVL) to supply   authorities to supply indelible ink and sealing wax for the elections, thereby closing the lid on the possibility of marker pens being used to mark voters in the upcoming polls. Given that both the indelible ink and marker pens are manufactured at MPVL in the state, it was hoped that the assembly elections would finally witness a departure from tradition. However, that is not to be.
 
  
 
 Besides supplying indelible ink for polls across the country, MPVL also provides ink for elections held abroad. “The marker pens have passed tests at the National Physical laboratory of India, and have already been used in urban local body elections in Karnataka and Kerala. We were hoping they would be used in the assembly elections in the state, but it appears as though the   (ECI) is not in the mood to try them,” sources in MPVL said.
 
 MPVL chairman HA Venkatesh on Saturday confirmed that there had been no order for marker pens from the ECI. “However, ECI placed an order on Friday for indelible ink, which is used to mark the voter’s finger,” he added.
 
 “ECI has sought 1.32 lakh phials of 10ml each of indelible ink, and around 20,000 sachets of sealing wax for the Karnataka elections. We are expecting a turnover of Rs 2.06 crore from this election. The election authorities have asked us to supply the ink immediately. But, we are confident of manufacturing the ink and supplying it to them in a month’s time,” Venkatesh said.
 
 Malaysia orders voters’ ink
 
 In what is surely another feather on its hat, MPVL received an order from Malaysia for one lakh bottles (60ml each) of indelible ink. “The value of this order for MPVL is Rs 8 crore,” said Venkatesh, adding that the public sector unit owned by the Karnataka government had been supplying the product to nearly two dozen countries for the past few decades.
 
