NEW DELHI: The   moved the Delhi high court on Monday challenging the acquittal of former Union telecom minister A Raja and   MP   among others in a money laundering case in the 2G spectrum scam.

 
 On December 21 last year, a special   court had acquitted Raja and 18 others, including DMK chief M Karunanidhi’s wife Dayalu Ammal and daughter Kanimozhi, for the offence of money laundering. The court had also ordered release of attached properties in the case worth Rs 223 crore.
 
 CBI is also expected to file an appeal some time this week. The ED’s appeal, filed by its joint director Rajeshwar Singh, said the “special judge committed a grave error by acquitting the accused of the offence under Prevention of Money Laundering Act on the basis of acquittal in the CBI case and without applying mind and considering the   offence as a separate, independent and standalone offence to be tried and adjudicated.”
 
  
  
 
 The appeal further said the special court failed to “appreciate the facts and evidences… and ignored the gravity of the offence and the role of the respondents as well as proved testimonies of the 24 witnesses and documents establishing money trail in the serious offence of money laundering”.
 
 The ED said the CBI court “casually ignored the proved evidences through documents as well as supported by testimony of witnesses that Rs 43.75 crore cash was given for accommodation by taking cheque of the equal amount”.
 
 The agency argued that the definition of ‘proceeds of crime’ had a wide connotation and “may even extend to a person connected with criminal activity relating to a scheduled offence but he may not be offender of the schedule offence per se”.
 
 The money trail mentioned by the ED was cited in its chargesheet filed earlier in the CBI court. In its chargesheet, it had cited six transactions between December 23, 2008 and August 11, 2009 through which “illegal gratification” of Rs 200 crore was transferred to  , controlled by Kanimozhi and Dayalu Ammal.
 
