India has voted and chosen The Times 50 Most Desirable Women 2017. The votes received online on 
  along with the internal jury votes, decided the final 50 on this coveted list, which boasts of women who are not just from the movie industry, but also from the television and modelling world. Every year, new faces who make news for the right reasons, find a spot here.

 
 No points for guessing that this year’s winner is   2017  . The gorgeous Haryana girl made India proud by beating 117 contestants from various countries and bringing home the Miss World crown after 17 years, thus becoming a role model for millions of aspiring girls. As she continues to travel across the globe, working towards making a difference to the lives of people, her desirability quotient has increased manifold. Here are excerpts from a candid chat with Manushi on all things desirable...
 
 
 
 
 I really don’t know (smiles); I have never thought about it. Of course, I’m happy that I have been voted as ‘Most Desirable’! I feel I am more of a people’s person and I have this connect with them. Also, probably because I am just like any other girl who had big dreams. I think this is what makes me desirable.
 
 
 Honesty and along with it, a good sense of humour.
 
 
 That’s a very tough one, but in India, I think it’s Ranveer Singh. He has a great sense of humour.
 
 
 Travelling is the best kind of learning. Seeing and experiencing so many different cultures has been amazing. I enjoy doing what I am doing; I get to travel and meet people who are doing such amazing work. Also, after visiting a country, we get a few days off to be with our families, just be ourselves and then we are back.
 
 
 Yes, and that was the first time in life I was star-struck! He has an aura. I also remember him telling me, ‘I know you follow me on Twitter because out of the eight people that you follow, two are me — one is Prime Minister of India and the other is Narendra Modi’. It was a little embarrassing (laughs). That’s when I realised he knew about me.
 
 
 I just want to tell them, ‘Believe in yourself and be yourself, that’s the most important thing. Don’t try to fit into a box that has been created by someone else. Create your own box. Just believe in who you are.’
 
 — Roshni Olivera
 
