NAGPUR: Expelled but unperturbed,   leader   on Sunday said he would remain a Congress worker till his last breath.

 “I have served the party for 52 years. The Congress ideology is ingrained in me and that is something you cannot snatch away,” he said. In a counter move, the city unit president Vikas Thakre presided over a meeting which passed a resolution welcoming the expulsion.
 
 Talking informally to senior journalists at his residence,   said the way his expulsion was engineered by some leaders (read MPCC president Ashok Chavan, ex-MP   and city president Vikas Thakre), it was a conspiracy and politics of vendetta.
 
 “In my long innings I have seen several such ups and downs. I am sure the national leadership of the Congress would hear me out and see how the action was taken without following principles of natural justice or fulfilling established norms. Proper notice was never given, disciplinary committee was not referred and constitutional procedure was not followed,” said Chaturvedi stressing that the action was not acceptable to him. He also pointed out that when Chavan became chief minister, he lost no time in removing him (Chaturvedi) from his cabinet and took extra care to exclude him from his 350-strong state executive body of the party.
 
 “I established myself as a Congress worker right from student days. I am serving the party influenced by its ideology. Following ideals of Mahatma Gandhi, Nehru, Indiraji, Rahulji and Soniaji, I kept the Congress flag flying high in the city which is headquarters of the   (RSS) whose nerve centre is located in part of the city that I represented for five terms in the legislature as an MLA,” said Chaturvedi.
 
 “At a time when the party is on revival path, a handful of people in the party from Nagpur and Mumbai are engaged in weakening it by helping communal forces. These people are actually adding strength to all that the Congress party never represents. I firmly believe that these very elements conspired to take action against me to carry forward their ulterior motives,’’ said Chaturvedi.
 
 Meanwhile, at the city Congress meeting held at Devadia Bhavan, a resolution congratulating Chavan and AICC in-charge   was passed. Without naming Chaturvedi, it said the exemplary action taken against those not following party discipline was in order and will help in strengthening the party.
 
 
