NAGPUR: A leisurely Sunday laced with festive fervour of Sankranti got a bit more heady as   presented a fine bouquet of semi-classical compositions at the ongoing Khasdar Sankrutik Mahotsav. Over 3,000 people filled the sprawling Ishwarchand Deshmukh College grounds in Raghuji Nagar, to watch the vocalist carry forward the lineage of his grandfather Vasantrao Deshpande, who got his initial training in music in this very part of the city.

 Dressed in a ikat black and white kurta, black pyjamas and sporting   rings in his ears,   looked faraway on the huge stage specially set up for the festival. Though the set up lacked the intimacy of an auditorium, where applause and appreciation reaches the artist, yet Deshpande got his share of recognition. He was inundated with requests to present popular compositions of his, and those of his grandfather too. He was more than eager to oblige as he promised that he will try his best to meet all the requests.
 
 His renditions this evening included various genres of classical music as he presented a composition in   Durga and interspersed his performance with abhang, bhav geet and natya geet. Keeping in mind the crowd, which was not exclusively Marathi speaking people, Deshpande presented the nirguni bhajan of Kabir ‘Kaun thugwa’ with immense emotion that brought out the beauty and meaning of the poetry. He presented ‘Albela sajan ghar aayo’ on popular demand, but not before he had apologized to his gurus for presenting an early morning raga Ahir Bhairav in the evening. 
 
 Deshpande with his rich voice honed with deep riyaaz did full justice to evergreen compositions of ‘Katyar Kaljaat Ghusli’, of which he sang the famous ‘Chhand Makrand’ and ‘Dil ki tapish’. His rendition of Tukaram’s Laxmi Vallabh was like a plea and prayer, which it is meant to be. He ended the evenings presentation with ‘Kanhada Raja Pandhari’.
 
 Also present at the concert was founder chairman of HCL Shiv Nadar, who will be inaugurating a unit in Mihan on Monday. Welcoming Nadar, union minister Nitin Gadkari, who has also conceptualized the Khasdar Mahotsav, said that the unit is a much awaited event for the city, as it will create more than 2,000 jobs initially. Reciprocating the warm welcome, Nadar responded by appreciating the city with, “We have honest, intelligent and hardworking people here, who will help us with the growth of this unit.”
 
 
