CHANDIGARH: Why were three senior officers of the Haryana government in touch with a man accused of spreading violence in Panchkula last year after Dera Sacha Sauda chief   was convicted of rape? The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked this question to the   government and told the chief secretary to seek explanations from the officers.

 The officers are Panchkula sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Pankaj Setia, Bhiwani SP Surender Singh Bhoria and  , who is presently posted as DSP in the Indian Reserve Battalion of the state police.
 
 
 Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu passed these orders after additional chief secretary (home) S S Prasad informed the court that the officers were not authorised to talk to the accused. The issue had reached before the court in the wake of an anticipatory bail plea by Jasbir Singh, a resident of Kurukshetra and an accused in violence case. According to the Panchkula police, Jasbir is among the top functionaries of the dera and one of the main accused responsible for spreading violence in Panchkula. The police have also claimed that he was part of the conspiracy to free Gurmeet from police custody after he was convicted.
 
 Claiming innocence, Jasbir has been arguing that he was not involved in the violence and that he was in touch with the officers to try and defuse the situation.
 
 In an affidavit filed before the court on Friday, Prasad said, “No decision was taken by the government authorising Setia, Bhoria and Chander Pal for taking a course of conversation with the accused.
 
 
 File photo of a vehicle damaged during dera violence last year
 
 
 The affidavit further stated, "These officers did not inform the government about any conversation with the accused. Such a course, if any, was taken by them at their own level without the approval of the state government.”
 
 The home secretary was asked to file an affidavit on February 21, 2018, after hearing deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Panchkula, Manbir Singh, who had told the court that "these three officers were in active contact with the accused". Jasbir has claimed in his bail plea that he was in touch with the three officers on their mobile phones from August 23 to 25 and was not involved in prompting dera followers to become violent. “Rather, I was helping the administration wriggle out of the complex situation,” he has argued.
 
 Contesting the bail petition, the state government, submitted that Jasbir had not cooperated with the administration and had misguided state agencies and that he was directly responsible for the war-like situation in Panchkula on August 25. Advocate  , appearing for Jasbir in the high court on Friday, argued that if he is considered main accused, then action should also be taken against the officers who were in touch with him ahead of the violence.
 
