Chandigarh: Senior officers have tried to hold their subordinates accountable for their actions or discipline them in the larger public interest. This has led to a number of incidents of indiscipline and insubordination. It has a problem of a permanent cadre upto the rank of deputy SPs. This has been stated by IPS officer and former SSP of Chandigarh police Nanunihal singh in his statement as a defence witness in   related to former SP of Chandigarh police Des Raj in a special court of CBI on Monday. The matter was also brought to notice of ministry of home affairs. He was given a final chance to appear in court on the next date of hearing as defence witness.

 Nanunihal Singh stated that in the performance appraisal report for the period September 2011 to March 2012, the overall grading of Deshraj Singh was 9.75 out of 10 and the integrity was beyond doubt. He also stated that he did not have the knowledge about the facts of the case, but at that time, when the incident happened, it was strongly felt that it was a case of false implication.
 
 During the cross examination, the issue of tussle between senior and juniors in Chandigarh police was also raised. Responding to that, Naunihal Singh stated, “Chandigarh police is an excellent police force. However, it has a problem of a permanent cadre upto the rank of deputy SPs. This over a period of time had created serious issues of discipline in the force, especially where the senior officers had tried to hold the subordinate accountable for their actions or discipline them in the larger public interest. This had led to a number of incidents of indiscipline and insubordination.”
 
 He further stated that , “The situation was serious enough to be brought to the notice of the seniors including the ministry of home affairs and there was an active consideration to merge the permanent cadre of the subordinate officers with the AGMUT cadre so as to curtail the creation of vested interests in the city.”
 
 He also stated that Deshraj Singh had also held officers accountable for their indiscipline and had moved cases of enquiry and action in an effort to discipline them.”
 
 The six-year-old case pertains to Deshraj being caught by CBI while allegedly accepting Rs 1 lakh bribe. A 2008 batch IPS officer, Deshraj was arrested by the CBI in October 2012 on the complaint of Chandigarh police inspector Anokh Singh, then SHO of Sector 26 police station. Deshraj was holding the charge of the SP (city) at the time of his arrest. The CBI had produced before the court a recorded conversation between the SP and the SHO, in which Deshraj was heard asking for bribe.
 
 
