NEW DELHI:   Group Corp has elevated its   chief executive officer   to executive vice president of the board of directors, a move that potentially places the veteran banker among those in line to succeed the Tokyo-based company’s founder  .
 
  Misra, who took over as CEO of the $93-billion Vision Fund in 2016, is among at least three senior executives who could succeed Son when the 60-year-old Soft-Bank chairman decides to step down.
  
  Misra, an alumnus of the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, and the MIT Sloan School of Management, was handpicked by Son to lead the Vision Fund, the largest pool of private capital ever mobilised, which looks to invest in what has been described as “futuristic technologies.”
  
  The DPS Mathura Road and Indian Institute of Technology Delhi graduate was elevated to the board of the parent company last year, and according to the tech giant’s notice on its annual general meeting to be held on June 20, the 56-year-old’s compensation is $11.2 million including cash and stock.
  
  Misra’s salary is lower than the high profile package received by Nikesh Arora, another executive of Indian origin who was in line to be Son’s successor till June 2016 but stepped down amid a dispute with SoftBank’s shareholders.
  
  In comparison, Son’s remuneration, according to the notice, is $1.23 million.
  
  
 
  Also promoted as executive vice presidents are Marcelo Claure, chief operating officer, and former Goldman Sachs senior executive Katsunori Sago, who will join as chief strategy officer, Soft-Bank said in a statement dated June 1. Both are also contenders for the top job.
  
  Claure at $12.4 million and Soft-Bank vice chairman Ronald Fisher at $18.2 million are two company executives and board members who are paid more than Misra.
  
  The appointment of Misra, Claure and Sago is subject to the approval of shareholders at the upcoming AGM.
  
  While Son has publicly said he is in no hurry to step down as CEO, the latest appointments may be seen as indicators that the billionaire is looking to appoint his successor from among his top lieutenants.
  
  When contacted by ET, SoftBank spokespersons declined to state that Misra was a front-runner to succeed the charismatic billionaire.
  
  “Son’s potential successors are not limited to these three, but they are among them,” a company spokesperson wrote to ET.
  
  Claure took over as COO last month, filling a role that was formerly occupied by Arora, who was Son’s chosen heir apparent before departing in 2016 amid accusations of conflicts of interest and a regulatory probe, among others.
  
  Arora, who regularly topped the highest-paid executives league tables during his time at   and SoftBank, was named chief executive at cybersecurity firm Palo Alto Networks on Friday.
  
  Arora, 50, replaces Mark McLaughlin, who took Palo Alto Networks public and now assumes the role of vice chairman. Since resigning from SoftBank, Arora has been linked to several high-profile jobs, including coming on board as CEO of  .
  
  Arora was reportedly paid $73 million during his time at Soft-Bank, making him the highest paid executive in the world, a financial package that, however, struck a major discordant note among the more staid Japanese business community, who reportedly disapproved of his high-flying stature and Son’s decision to name him as his heir.
  
  Arora was also among the most highly paid executives at Google, pulling in close to $50 million before quitting to join SoftBank.
  
  During his time at SoftBank, Arora led the Japanese investor’s charge into India, racking up a string of investments, often at astronomical valuations, in startups such as real estate portal Housing, ride-hailing app   and online marketplace  .
