KOLKATA: The south suburban division of Kolkata police on Monday decided to go to the   on   in Kasba to demonstrate the dangers children were facing in their everyday life. The interactive session for students elaborated on harassment and other dangers in the society. The 40-minute-long Power-Point presentation by Kasba police was attended by students of both sexes studying in classes VIII-X.

 As the six-feet-tall “police uncle” took a momentary break before announcing he would talk to them about sexual assault, the 120-odd girls and boys listening intently broke into a smile. But there was no discomfort.
 
 For the next 10 minutes, Kasba police station OC Debasis   tried to explain to the students the need to differentiate between good touch and bad touch.
 
 “Do not conceal your discomfort. Engage your seniors — your parents, teachers and even us — whenever there is anything “gandi” (bad) that you come across. Promise me that you will not keep quiet when a girl is abused and that you will respect them for the sheer reason that can accomplish anything and more that a male can,” Dutta said. The requests were met with a resounding “yes” . The Kasba police team also comprised second officer Manasi Patra and Silbhadra Ghosh.
 
 Among the many topics discussed were sexual harassment, exhibitionism, abuse by family members and relatives, cyberbullying and pornography, trafficking and drug abuse. The hourlong session touched on all sensitive issues and described how to deal with them. DC (SSD) Santosh Nimbalkar said, “It is a gender sensitization programme where we are visiting schools to increase awareness among children, especially girls and dispel myths and fears.”
 
 Most children had no clue what the “eve” in eve-teasing was, or about exhibitionism. “It is important to explain the concepts,”said Dutta.
 
 Most of the questions from the students revolved around cyberbullying. “Why can’t I even a share a photo of mine on Facebook,” asked Shilpa Singh, a student of Class VIII. Dutta said as long as the privacy setting is intact and data sharing is set to “only friends”, there is no problem. “It is not your Class X admission form that you need to share your private details with the rest of the world. This is Facebook. Asingle post of yours can be viewed by thousands. Many of the ‘nice’ people you know can have a dark face with another account that is filthy and dirty,” Dutta told the students.
 
 Pervin Sultana of Class X said, “The concepts are clearer and we now know how to seek help in case of trouble.”
 
