GORAKHPUR: At least 13 children, aged between seven and 11 years, died on the spot and four others were injured when a passenger train rammed into their school van at an unmanned railway crossing in UP's   district on Thursday morning. A nine-year-old survivor told TOI that the driver couldn't hear the children screaming to warn him about the fast-approaching Sivan-  passenger train as he was talking on his cellphone.

 A controversy erupted soon after when chief minister  , who reached the site of the accident in Vishunpura, told the locals protesting on the railway tracks to stop the "nautanki (drama)".
 
 One of the four survivors, Krishna Verma, who sustained an injury on his leg, told TOI: "We were shouting and asking driver uncle to stop the van but he didn't as he was busy talking on his phone and was not able to hear us."
 
 According to other witnesses, passers-by tried to stop the driver but he drove the van with 17 schoolchildren straight onto the railway tracks. "Driver uncle went very close to the train. When I gained consciousness, I was among others who were lying on the ground and not moving," said Krishna, whose 10-year-old sister Roshni is critical.
 
 The crossing had no barrier to stop road traffic but a "gate mitra" — a civil society member keeping watch at unmanned crossings — was posted there.
 
 An angry crowd assembled at the spot soon after the accident, demanding a manned crossing. They raised slogans even as Yogi began addressing them using a megaphone.
 
 Yogi said: "Yeh dukhad ghatna hai… yeh naarebazi band kar dein. Abhi bhi main bol raha hoon. Iss baat ko note kar lo. Nautanki band karo. Yeh dukhad ghatna hai… Raasta khali kar dein. Bheed mein main muayana nahin kar sakta… Iss samasya ka samadhan hamein mil kar nikaalna padega. Iss samay faltu ki naarebazi aur netagiri karne ke bajaye, samasya ke samadhan ki taraf hum log badhein (This is a tragic incident. Stop sloganeering in this moment of grief. Take note. Stop this drama. Clear the way or I cannot conduct an inspection. We have to work together to find a solution to this problem. Instead of doing this pointless sloganeering and politics at this point, we should work towards a solution)."
 
 The opposition slammed Yogi for his "highly insensitive remarks", but the UP government claimed the remarks were directed at people who were shouting slogans and trying to disrupt inspection by the CM.
 
 The four injured children as well as the driver were first taken to the Kushinagar district hospital and subsequently shifted to BRD Medical College in Gorakhpur. Yogi visited the injured at the hospital.
 
 Later, Yogi told reporters, "Prima facie, there seems to be a lapse on part of the van driver. There are reports of him driving with earphones on. There are doubts about his age too. These are matters of probe. An inquiry committee under the Gorakhpur commissioner has been set up."
 
 The school is reportedly not registered and its principal, K J Khan, has been arrested. The manager of the school is absconding. The basic education officer of Kushinagar and the block education officer of Dudahi have been suspended.
 
 The additional regional transport officer (enforcement) and transport department's passenger tax officer have also been suspended.
 
 The CM has announced an ex gratia payment of Rs 2 lakh each to the kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 for the injured. Railway minister   also announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh to the families of the dead, Rs 1 lakh for those with serious injuries and Rs 50,000 for those with simple injuries.
 
