CHENNAI: Hundreds of citations adorn the walls and shelves at music composer Ilaiyaraaja’s house. Now, the nation’s second highest civilian award –   Vibhushan – will have to squeeze in between them. 

 Better known as ‘Isaignani’ (saint of music) for millions of his fans who live and breathe his music across the globe,   gets the honour eight years after getting the Padma Bushan. 
 
 Hailing from a small village, Pannaipuram, near Theni in south  , and with just zeal for music,   hit the limelight with his music debut for the Tamil film ‘Annakili’ in 1976. And there was no looking back. The ‘melody king’ has composed music for more than 1,000 films and 6,000 songs in several Indian languages.
 
 “The Padma Vibhushan awarded to me is an honour to the Tamil people and Tamil Nadu,” Ilaiyaraaja said on Thursday evening, after the announcement by the Union ministry of information & broadcasting. 
 
 While actors   and Kamal Haasan congratulated him over phone, several from the Indian film industry tweeted praise.
 
 Millions since the late 60s have kept large collections of his songs for company, at home, car and work. Ilaiyaraaja offered variety – from folk to western to classical compositions – and was seldom matched by anyone in the Indian film musical history. At a time when electronic keyboards have come to rule the industry, he lives by his trust in ‘live orchestration’.
 
 “It is most befitting and I am proud. The award is a recognition for Ilayaraja’s talent and hard work. In spite of all his achievements and recognition from across the world, he has maintained simplicity,” said leading Carnatic and   musician T V  , who is credited with guiding Ilayaraja on the nuances of classical music. 
 
 “That Ilaiyaraaja presided over the latest edition of Music Academy’s annual conference and concerts showed that the classical music world has accepted him completely,” said Gopalakrishnan. 
 
 “Music cannot be made, it happens,” Ilaiyaaraja, a man of few words, said at the Music Academy that evening. For the maestro, the Padma Vibhushan was waiting to happen.
 
 
