BENGALURU: An air of uncertainty prevails in the State, not just around the Vidhana Soudha — Karnataka’s seat of power — but also at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium, home of   (RCB). As in the political circles, there is plenty riding on permutations, combinations, numbers and luck.
 
 
 
 
 Thanks to the insipid performances early in their campaign, RCB find themselves on sticky wicket even as the business end of the league approaches. Although they only have two games left to play, RCB still nourish the hope of making the playoffs. First though, they need to win their last two games and also increase their net run rate in the process. Their passage, thereafter, would still depend on other results going their way.
 
 
 
 RCB therefore have nothing to lose and all to gain going into their first hurdle — and a formidable one at that — against table-toppers   on Thursday night. It’s their last home game for RCB and   and his men would need the rain to stay away and Lady Luck to shine.
 
 In the corresponding away fixture last week, the Hyderabad outfit had handed RCB a demoralising five-run defeat. Since then, RCB have notched up two comprehensive back-to-back wins, the last, a 10-wicket rout of Kings XI Punjab.
 
 Hyderabad on the other hand, come into the contest on the back of a defeat to Chennai Super Kings, but will hope to regain the winning momentum here, especially before going into the knockouts. The Sunrisers have built a reputation of being a mean bowling side and Kohli’s team, largely recognized as a batting outfit, will have to execute their A game to perfection especially against the likes of pacers Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Siddarth Kaul and spin ace Rashid Khan.
 
 AB de Villiers and skipper Kohli have been in menacing form with the bat and they would have to bare their fangs yet again. The inclusion of wicketkeeper Parthiv Patel (40 off 22 balls against KXIP) in place of Quinton de Kock has beefed up the top-order but the middle-order batsmen still appear cold, a concern RCB hasn't able to address effectively this season.
 
 Like RCB, the Sunrisers have also largely depended on skipper   and Shikhar Dhawan to deliver the goods with the bat. The dangerous Manish Pandey, a player who knows the Chinnaswamy as if it is the back of his hand, lurks lower down and RCB’s bowlers must quickly silence these cannons if they are to secure full points.
 
