Namakkal/Erode: Green activists alleged that many textile dyeing units at Pallipalayam and Kumarapalayam had been polluting the River Cauvery for long by discharging untreated effluents into it.

 Pointing out that several hundreds of people were dependent on the river for potable water, they called on the district administration and Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) officials to take stern action against the dyeing unit owners for polluting the Cauvery.
 
 Green activist A Adhavan, who is also state convener of Tamilaga Desiya Katchi, told TOI that about 3,000 small and big textile dyeing units have been functioning at Komarapalayam and Pallipalayam areas. “All of them discharge effluents into the Cauvery as they do not have treatment plants,” he said and appealed the district administration to take action against the erring units.
 
 Another activist, C Nandhagopalan, said most dyeing units at Pallipalayam were located just a few meters away from river banks. “During the day, they store untreated effluents in a huge tank. They discharge it into the Cauvery at night,” he further said.
 
 Nandhagopalan, who is also state secretary of Tamil Meetchi Iyakkam, alleged that the dyeing unit owners have dug up separate drainage channel from their units to the Cauvery. “All the drains are connected to the river where untreated effluents get mixed with water. As a result, water can’t be used for potable purposes,” he said.
 
 Residents of Pallipalayam and Kumarapalayam areas, meanwhile, said borewell water had also been contaminated because of the dyeing units. “Today, we are solely dependent on municipal water to meet our potable requirements,” they said
 
 When contacted, Namakkal collector Asia Mariam said both the district administration and TNPCB officials had always been strict with the dyeing units. “We regularly inspect the units and take action against the erring ones. We will monitor the present situation and take necessary action,” she said. The collector has also directed the TNPCB officials to monitor the dyeing units regularly.
 
 
