TUTICORN: The Madras high court stayed the expansion plans of the Vedanta Group-owned Sterlite Copper plant that’s at the centre of a raging agitation in  , even as another protester was killed in fresh police firing on Wednesday.

 
 A day after 10 people had died in police firing, violence erupted again on Wednesday morning when more than 200 protesters thronged the Thoothukudi Medical College and Hospital (TMCH), where bodies of the victims were kept for postmortem and over 100 people were being treated.
 
 The high court, meanwhile, also directed the state government to preserve the bodies of those killed.
 
 Amid widespread criticism of the police firing and the opposition’s demand for action, the Tuticorin collector and the SP were transferred on Wednesday evening. 
 
 
 
 WHEN CAN COPS OPEN FIRE
  
  
 
 
 
 
 The National Human Rights Commission issued notices to the Tamil Nadu chief secretary and the DGP, asking them to submit a detailed report within two weeks. 
 
 The state government, acting on suggestions from MHA, suspended internet services in the neighbouring districts of Tuticorin, Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari for five days from Wednesday evening. The government directed internet service providers to stall data connectivity till May 27. 
 
 On Wednesday, the violence shifted to the area around TMCH. As the crowd started swelling outside the hospital, two bike-borne men hurled a petrol bomb near the building’s entrance, prompting police to lathi-charge, fire tear gas shells and rubber bullets. 
 
 Protesters hurled stones at the cops and set ablaze a police truck and damaged three other vehicles
 
 A division bench of Madras HC stayed the expansion of Sterlite plant’s second unit, based on a petition moved by  , an environmental activist. A bench of Justices T Ravindran and P   directed the state government to file its counter affidavit by May 30 on a PIL from three advocates. The bench directed the central government to submit a report after conducting a public hearing in Tuticorin to ascertain opinions about the plant’s expansion, within four months.
 
 The TN government, meanwhile, appointed former Madras HC judge Aruna Jagadeesan to probe the violence and police firing.
 
 
