UDAHAT ( ): CM   on Thursday sought to mitigate the ‘Taslimuddin factor in poll-bound   assembly constituency, claiming that the seat traditionally belonged to JD (U).

 The byelection in Jokihat, slated for May 28, has been necessitated as sitting JD (U) MLA Sarfaraz Alam, RJD heavyweight late Mohd Taslimuddin’s elder son, quit the seat and contested and won the Araria parliamentary bypoll on RJD ticket following the death of his father who was an RJD MP.
 
 While Nitish’s JD (U) has fielded Murshid Alam as the NDA candidate, RJD has given ticket to Taslimuddin’s younger son Shahnawaz Alam in Jokihat.
 
 Addressing a public meeting on the Umanath High School campus,   also tried to clear murmurings among the JD(U) workers against the party ticket to Murshid. “Murshid was given ticket on the recommendation of the minister in charge of Araria district,” he said.
 
 In his 30-minute speech, Nitish solicited votes for Murshid on the basis of the development works his government has done for them and, rather dramatically, sought the audience’s permission to garland Murshid to celebrate his victory in advance. 
 
 Recounting the development initiatives taken in the district, Nitish gave details of the schemes done during his regime for the uplift of people of the constituency. He also reminded them of the extremely backward caste (EBC) status granted to the Kulaihiya section of the Muslim community, which constitute the majority of the Muslim voters in the area.
 
 The CM said the demand of local people that Udahat be declared a separate block by carving out some of the gram panchayats of Jokihat block could be looked into by the government.
 
 He said the budgetary allotment for the welfare schemes for Muslims in the state jumped from around Rs 4 crore in 2005-06 to Rs 800 crore now, while the state’s general budget also increased from Rs 30,000 crore to Rs 1.8 lakh crore.
 
 The CM wished the audience Holy Ramzan, and thanked people for hearing him patiently in the scorching sun. He also came down heavily on his critics, saying they had only words to speak and nothing to do for the welfare of the people of the state.
 
 Nitish also referred to the steps he initiated for the development of Mahadalit groups as well as SC, ST and EBC sections. He also talked about the beneficial aspects of the prohibition enforced by his government.
 
 Others who also addressed the meeting were minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav, BJP national spokesman Shahnawaz Hussain and former minister Ashok Choudhary.
 
 
