NEW DELHI: Indian football legend   has picked his top three teams of the ongoing   (ISL), singling out table-toppers   as the favorites.

 
 In his column for TOI, India’s most-capped player took stock of the 10 franchises at the half-way mark of the league's third season and gave his views on how the ISL could pan out. 
 
 "To me, three teams — Chennaiyin, Goa and Bengaluru — have looked more consistent than the rest to make it to the semis, from where any of the four teams could go on to win the championship. The other slot, I feel will be a fight between Pune City and a scramble between Mumbai City and  ," wrote the former India striker. "Bengaluru have been the most organised team, and with the experience of playing in the inter-zonal AFC Cup final, they look confident and hungry. They will break away a bit to play in the AFC Cup qualifiers, a move which I feel will enable them to gel more as a unit. However, with so much of travelling involved, a bit of rotation holds the key for them."
 
 Bhutia, 41, also praised  's striking abilities for Chennaiyin FC - he is the leading Indian scorer with six goals. "It's heartening to see Jeje Lelpekhlua lead the charts for Chennaiyin with six goals so far. His lethal prowess in the 18-yard box has made a difference, especially with the midfield keeping the supply line on," he wrote. 
 
 "Goa have been one of the best attacking sides with   and Manuel Lanzarote scoring 16 between themselves. It’s a healthy competition, with Corominas staying atop with nine goals while Lanzarote is on seven. Gifted and a nightmare for the rival defenders, they have struck an enviable combination."
 
 Of the other major teams, Bhutia singled out Pune City's attacking instincts but felt they struggled on their home turf, and gave credit to Kerala Blaster's new manager   for installing a new spark in the franchise. "They were always the strongest on paper and James has been able to get   back in form, that too with a hat-trick," he wrote. 
 
 Bengaluru FC top the ISL table with 18 points, courtesy six wins from nine matches, followed by Chennaiyin FC with 17 and Pune City with 16.
 
