Visakhapatnam: Rural police are monitoring the transactions in the bank accounts of tribals to eradicate the   menace in the Visakha agency. They are reportedly gathering details about the transactions made by tribals during the past one year in eight mandals such as GK Veedhi, Hukumpeta, Chintapalli, G. Madugula, Pedabayalu, Munchingput, Dumbriguda and Paderu. 

 According to sources, police found some of the   youths living in the Maoists-infested interior villages and roadside villages under different mandals have bought expensive motorbikes worth Rs one lakh and more. 
 
 “We have noticed several changes in the life style of the tribals, especially youngsters, in the recent past. It is a matter of concern how the tribal youths, despite not having any source of proper income are managing to buy these two-wheelers and lead luxurious life styles,” said a senior police officer. 
 
 However, the police were shocked to know that many tribal youths of interior villages are earning money on a par with the roadside mandal headquarters like Chintapalli, GK Veedhi, G. Madugula and Paderu etc. 
 
 Besides, it was also found that many villagers had the money debited in their accounts from unknown persons from plain areas. 
 
 Police in the agency mandals already approached some branches of various banks to gather the details required. They discovered that some persons received over Rs 50,000 to Rs one lakh repeatedly in their accounts. 
 
  “Many tribals involved in the ganja trade have been receiving money in their accounts from the smugglers of plain areas. Some of them are paying cash while others are transferring amounts due to scarcity of money in ATMs and limited withdrawals,” sources said.
 
 More than five lakh population in the eleven mandals of Visakha agency. out of which, the mandals involved in ganja cultivation and transportation allegedly have more than 5,000 accounts, sources said. Cops would enquire the amount transferred place and the particular person’s credentials to nab the smugglers or their men, they said.
 
 
