MADURAI: A   plays an important role in almost every south Indian meal. The famous Pandian pickle, which is available widely in Tamil Nadu, has its roots in  , where it all began as a cottage industry over half a century ago.

 Ganeshan started his pickle making unit in a small 1000 square feet area in Madurai, way back in the year mid-1950s. He soon became popular among locals for his quality pickles, which had a good shelf life. Pickling is an art, where the fruit or vegetable being pickled, is cured using traditional recipes which are passed down through the women in the family. The main ingredient is cured in the brine, which is a mixture of the salt and juice of the fruit or vegetable and then tempered with spices. If not prepared in the proper way, the pickle will spoil soon.
 
 When local business did well, Ganeshan who was happy with his success, urged his son   to join him to expand the business, which he did after finishing school in 1972. Chellasamy, urged his father to think of expanding their business beyond Madurai, and soon they became a household name in many homes in Tamil Nadu.
 
 Their ``matai oorukkai’’, where they wrap the pickle required for just one meal in a small piece of dry arecanut leaf, became an immediate hit as soon as it was introduced as it was easy to carry, and could be discarded without damaging the environment. Even today, a plate of rice and a ``matai oorukkai’’ is the staple diet of many daily wage earners throughout the state.
 
 Then they introduced a slightly improved version, where the single meal pickle was sealed in a sachet for Re. 1 or a slightly bigger packet for Rs 5. But, when the sachet was introduced it sold at just 50 paise. The small manufacturing unit made it difficult for them to meet the demand, and in 2004 they moved to their own premises and set up a unit on a two acre area in Sikkander Chavadi, and mechanised the process, which has helped them to reach to distribute pickles to many states, including Maharashtra and  .
 
 A family business, managed by Chellasamy and his younger brothers, Sivagamy Nathan, Kandasamy and Surendran, they are now preparing to export their pickles. Quality has been their motto, say the brothers, which has helped them to stay ahead despite heavy competition from many other brands. ```The competition today is healthy,’’ says Chellasamy.
 
 They produce nine types of pickles, but lime, mango, garlic and citron, continue to rule the roost and are in high demand. People from Madurai who live abroad, never fail to take a 300 gram or five kilogram pet jar, back to their homes, as part of their luggage. They have also expanded to making spices, masala powders, and pastes of various curries.
 
 
