In the latest episode of  , Luv and Kush try to tell Kartik and Naira about the missing ring but they don't listen to the kids.

 
 Naksh compliments Kirti while Kartik teases Naira with an earring. Aryan (Shubham), too, is in a happy mood at the engagement party.
 
 Savita blesses Kirti. She hands her 'shagun' and steals the bangle from her hand. Suhana sees her doing so and scolds her. She asks Rahul to keep an eye on her.
 
 Naira is looking after the arrangements when Kartik takes her photos without her knowledge. As he leaves for some work, somebody else tries to take her photos from behind the curtain.
 
 Some men try and misbehave with the caterers. Naira and Kartik see them and they turn suspicious. They go and check so that the ceremony isn't disturbed and Swarna doesn't feel bad.
 
 The celebrations begin and everyone hits the dance floor. Suddenly, the lights go off and Naira falls on the floor. She gets up with some help and notices that the rings are missing. Dadi asks Kartik to take her to the hospital.
 
 Manish says that the engagement will take place only after Naira returns. Kartik, Naksh and Kirti take her to the hospital. The doctor says that she is perfectly fine.
 
 The family is relieved to hear this. Savita tells them that the engagement won't be able to take place as they don't have the rings. Swarna sees her reaction and asks Dadi to get another ring from their family jeweler.
 
 Naira feels sad as the engagement ceremony was disturbed due to her. Swarna brings the rings and asks both Shubham and Suhana to choose. Suhana is happy as her plan worked. 
 
 As Naira and Kartik get ready to leave, they see a photo of a girl, very similar to Suhana, next to a patient's bed who keeps calling her Ruby. Naira and Kartik feel that they cannot ignore him. Naira realizes she has seen the guy before. They think of a way to get the patient out of the hospital to know the truth.
 
 Naira and Kartik try to take doctor's help for the same. The doctor tells them that the patient is dangerous. The patient looks at them and asks if they have seen Ruby (Suhana). Kartik takes his photo as an evidence and goes home with the hope that he'd be able to stop the engagement.
 
