JAIPUR: Painkillers, when abused and misused, may cause harm to patients, sometimes leading to death. Now, to deal with it, Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Medical College is eager to find out alternatives to   by looking at   and yoga as a possible solution.

 SMS Medical College is contemplating to open a centre for acupressure to offer patients an add-on acupressure therapy to the conventional therapy in management of chronic pain in patients of osteoarthritis of the knee.
 
 It would be second such major step taken by the SMS Medical College if the new acupressure therapy centre comes into effect aiming to reduce the misuse and abuse of painkillers. The SMS Hospital had set up yoga and naturopathy centre earlier in 2016, with a separate outpatient department (OPD) for patients with migraine or different joint and muscular pains.
 
 “Painkillers abuse may cause damage to kidneys, liver and it also causes gastric ulcers leading to anaemia. Irrational use of painkillers is one of the leading causes of kidney failure. People take painkillers to get relief from different pains such as in osteoarthritis, headache, fever, musculoskeletal pain. Such medicines should be taken under proper doctors’ guidance and it should not be abused,” said Dr Sunil Mahawar, assistant professor (medicine), SMS Hospital.
 
 SMS Medical College’s pharmacovigilance (PV) centre has made a presentation before the ethics committee of the medical college to its approval for acupressure centre. However, the permission is still awaited.
 
 “We have already set up a yoga and naturopathy centre at SMS Hospital to prevent painkillers abuse. Now, in this series, we are planning to introduce an acupressure centre in the hospital,” said, Dr Lokendra Sharma, professor pharmacology and co-coordinator pharmacovigilance centre.
 
 He said that the study will find out the effectiveness of add on acupressure therapy to the conventional therapy in management of chronic pain in patients of osteoarthritis of the knee.
 
 Dr Sharma said that for the study purpose, 120 osteoarthritis patients will be taken as control group(pharmacological treatment group) and 120 osteoarthritis patients as study group (acupressure as an adjunctive therapy to pharmacological treatment). The study will find out effectiveness of acupressure in providing relief to the patients with knee pain.
 
 
