AURANGABAD: While the fuel prices continue to be high, five cities in the state have been paying an additional tax for the past ten years taking the cost of petrol and diesel a notch higher than the rest. An extra beautification tax was added to the petrol and diesel rates at  , Nandurbrar, Amravati, Nagpur and Dhule.

 People from the city, most of whom are unaware of the tax, are not pleased as they feel very less has been done towards beautification considering the amount being charged for the purpose since a decade. 
 
 Close to ten years ago, the erstwhile state government picked five cities in the state and issued a notification for the implementation of a dedicated tax to be levied along with petrol and diesel prices. The cities were selected based on their scope of developing at a fast pace. For Aurangabad, the gazette had stated that petrol will have 3% and diesel 2% of the tax. Accordingly, the citizens have been paying an additional tax since then. 
 
 According to  , secretary, petrol dealers association (Aurangabad district), sales tax commissioner, divisional commissioner and the district collector were not aware about the tax imposition in the city when it was first introduced. “I had informed MP   about the tax, following which a meeting was held where all the stakeholders were invited and a discussion was conducted. We expected the state government to use that tax to bring the much needed development to the city. However, not much has been done,”   said.
 
 Talking about the injustice, Syed Asif Ali, civil engineer said, “The inefficient public transport compels people to shell out more on petrol and diesel. The government should at least work on providing a robust public transport. Public representatives should raise the matter in assembly and bring justice to Aurangabad citizens.” 
 
 Supporting the citizens, MP Chandrakant Khaire stated that the state government should declare the amount of tax collected and the purposes that it has been used for. “The tax has been imposed since the past several years and it should be lifted now. I will take up the matter with the government again,” he said.
 
 According to Abbas, on an average, the city consumes 3 lakh litre petrol in a day. Thus, over the years the state would have accumulated gargantuan sum of money through the tax. He added that most of the consumers are not aware that they are paying so much on a daily basis for fuel.
 
 
