LUDHIANA: The   (MC) elections may have ended in the city, but election rivalry has not. In an incident reported in Maha Singh Nagar of Daba, the supporters of two rival candidates — the victorious and defeated candidates — indulged in a scuffle and also pelted stones on each other on Wednesday evening. Following the high drama in the area, police was called. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP-South)  , and Daba police reached the spot. 
 
  (BJP) candidate   had contested from Ward No.31 against ex-councillor and independent candidate Baby Singh, defeating her by 304 votes. Incidentally, Sonia and Baby are neighbours. Baby’s husband Thakur Vishavnath Singh alleged: “After the victory, supporters of BJP candidates were trying to instigate them. They were bursting crackers outside our house since last evening, and were trying to provoke our supporters. Today, when my wife, both daughters, and some supporters were at home, one BJP supporter indulged in an argument with our supporter Rohit. First, they manhandled him and later locked him inside their house, and beat him up.” Following this, Baby’s supporters and those of Sonia Sharma gathered on the spot and pelted stones at each other. 
  
 On the other hand, Sonia’s uncle Ashwani Sharma said their entire family, including Sonia, had gone out, but he and some supporters were present at home. At that time, Baby’s supporters, infuriated with their defeat, thrashed Sonia’s supporters. Ashwani further alleged that the main accused, Rohit, barged into their house to attack him, but he managed to overpower Rohit. 
  
 ACP-South Dharampal said the police registered a case on Ashwani’s complaint against Rohit and his accomplice under sections 452 (trespassing), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 348 (wrongful confinement to extort confession, or compel restoration of property), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the IPC. He added that the police secured CCTV footage from the spot where the accused were captured pelting stones. 
  
  
