KOLKATA: One of the last bastions of the Leftists in Bengal is likely to stay with them in the forthcoming elections of the new council, the body that runs the  . The elections are due on April 28. 

 Every two years elections to the Council happen but what is unique this year is that the existing Council will sail through because except for one position, all others will remain unchallenged. 
 
 Asiatic Society, the seat of Indological studies in the country, is 234 years old and reports to the ministry of culture. It was in the eye of the storm at the time of the last elections in 2016. The key positions are that of the president and general secretary. The Centre, upset over allegations of funds embezzlement that ran into crores and the fact that the then Council had approved special grade pay scales that did not tally with the Sixth Pay Commission, had stalled the implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission scale. Funds were also blocked for several activities of the Society.
 
 The new Left-backed Council that came into power was, however, able to address many of these issues to the effect that the Centre has granted it the Seventh Pay Commission scale from this month. Insiders said that the reason why the Left- backed Council will win uncontested is primarily because of this rather "impossible" achievement. 
 
 Pradip Bhattacharya,   MP, is contesting for the post of vice president and he will win it uncontested. He is replacing Aparajita Basu, who is contesting in another position. It is being said that the "vacancy" has been "deliberately" created by the sitting Council to "accommodate" the senior Congressman. There are a total four VP positions. The only position that is being challenged is that of the philological secretary's.
 
 Another interesting entry is that of Atish Dasgupta, twin brother of former state finance minister Asim Dasgupta. He will be seen in the election arena after a long time. He will contest as a Council member and will remain unchallenged as is clear from the nominations filed. "The reason for a strong Left "lobby" at the Society, despite its political failure elsewhere, can be attributed to Dasgupta's efforts because he enrolled members who had allegiance to the Left," said a source. The last date for withdrawing nominations was March 21.
 
 "While most people want to paint the Council red, I want to remind them that the Society is a largely apolitical body. However, this is indeed the first time that the election will remain mostly uncontested," said Ramkrishna Chatterjee, publications secretary of the Council and a historian.
 
 
