NEW DELHI: The   session of Delhi assembly started on a stormy note on Monday as AAP and BJP lawmakers sparred over the ongoing   drive against commercial establishments using residential properties. 

 Soon after the proceedings began, AAP legislators raised the issue of sealing and rushed to the well shouting slogans against BJP and armed with posters and banners. 
 
 They claimed the traders were being “harassed” and there was “huge corruption” in the sealing. Speaker Ram Niwas Goel had to adjourn the House twice. 
 
 But when the House resumed for the second time, BJP members rushed to the well to  . Leader of Opposition Vijender Gupta directly blamed chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for the sealing “because the AAP government has not notified 351 roads for commercial and mixed land use thus exposing the commercial establishments on these roads to the threat of sealing”.
 
 AAP’s Satyendar Jain countered Gupta by saying that these roads haven’t been notified as “the civic bodies have not submitted answers to several questions raised by the government like provisions for parking on the roads that will convert to commercial from residential”.
 
 But the storm refused to ebb, resulting in two more adjournments. After the House resumed for the fourth time, BJP members said they wouldn’t discuss the matter until Jain promised to notify all the roads. Eventually, BJP MLAs were marshalled out. 
 
 Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia then hit out at the opposition. “BJP does not want a discussion on sealing since discussion will leave it exposed. BJP has kept the issue pending for long because it uses the issue to make money from the traders,” he alleged. 
 
 AAP’s Saurabh Bhardwaj demanded the summoning of the three municipal commissioners to the assembly to explain how the corporations spent Rs 1,000 crore collected by the corporations against conversion charges in the last 10 years. MLA Alka Lamba alleged that the civic bodies have not issued receipts to the traders who have submitted conversion charges in the past. “The collection of conversion charges involves corruption to the tune of Rs 1,000 crore,” she said.
 
 MLA Anil Bajpai said that the sealing in Gandhi Nagar has left several workers jobless and there is a sense of terror among the businessmen. 
 
 Meanwhile, AAP’s trader wing organised a protest march against the sealing drive outside the Civic Centre on Monday. 
 
 
