Industries minister Subhash Desai is at the receiving end for “inept” handling of the row over the Rs 3 lakh crore Nanar refinery project in Ratnagiri district. After maintaining silence for over a year, Desai said that a notification issued on May 18, 2017, had been scrapped. However, he did not examine the procedure required for taking such a decision.

 The MIDC headed by Desai promulgated the notification to provide for acquisition of land for setting up the refinery and the Centre signed a memorandum of understanding for the project on April 11. After the notification was issued, villagers lodged a strong protest, saying the project would displace 3,200 families and 8,000 farmers, and use up 15,000 acres of fertile land. Villagers had called on chief minister Devendra Fadnavis,   chief Uddhav Thackeray, NCP president Sharad Pawar and Congress boss Rahul Gandhi. Recently after Thackeray visited Nanar, Desai declared that he had given instructions to MIDC to scrap the notification. Villagers did not know the procedure for scrapping the notification and that Desai had no such powers.
 
 Fadnavis declared that only a committee headed by the chief secretary could annul the notification. Desai was left red-faced as he was unable to implement an announcement made in the presence of Thackeray.
 
 
 
 BJP spokesperson   has been appointed vicechairman of the Maharashtra State Rehabilitation Authority and got a minister of state rank, but many say his assignment is “insignificant”. Bhandari does not have an office or staff. Bhandari, one of the most loyal BJP workers, has been a prominent face of the organisation on television channels. On crucial occasions, Bhandari has strongly defended the BJP, particularly when the party was reeling under a crisis due to wrong decisions by some office-bearers. For more than a decade, he had been hoping for a state legislative council nomination.
 
 Bhandari was confident of bagging a Rajya Sabha seat or a council nomination after the BJP government came to power in Maharashtra in October 2014. Till the last minute, his name was in the zone of consideration, but he missed the bus. For the legislative council polls instead of considering Bhandari, BJP nominated defectors. For the Rajya Sabha elections, Prakash Javadekar, former chief minister Narayan Rane and former Kerala state chief   were the party’s nominees, and they were elected unopposed.
 
 When it became clear that Bhandari would not be accomodated in the Rajya Sabha or the legislative council, he was expecting a slot in state-run enterprises or corporations. Bhandari was keen on Siddhivinayak Temple Trust, Maharashtra Area and Housing Authority, Mumbai Housing Board or an organisation where he could make a mark, but he missed the bus again. There is uncertainty on whether or not he will accept the new assignment.
 
 Senior bureaucrats observed that they do not know the role and agenda for the newly set up authority for relief and rehabilitation.
 
