CHENNAI: Avoid jeans and leggings to keep rashes at bay, take a shower twice a day and install curtains on doors and windows — these are among a series of suggestions made by the state health department for residents to shield themselves from summer-related ailments. 

 The advisory, issued by the government on Tuesday, included tips for the public to keep themselves hydrated as a lot of fluid and salt will be lost to sweat. The government has cautioned children, pregnant women and senior citizens against venturing out between 10am and 3pm. “Even if you don’t feel thirsty, drink at least 2.5 litres of water a day,” said the health department in its statement. Public health officials have recommended more buttermilk with salt, tender coconut water, lime juice and oral rehydration solution for those who tend to get dehydrated fast. They have also suggested residents to add fruits that have high water content to their diet, like cucumber and water melon.
 
 Dehydration can manifest in many ways ranging from giddiness and exhaustion to even stomach pain.
 
 As rashes on the skin are also routine during summer, officials have asked people to switch to loose cotton clothes and avoid wearing jeans and leggings that could result in skin diseases. “The public should also ensure that they are not prescribed ointment that contain steroids for skin diseases,” said the release. 
 
 Doctors say urinary tract infections too are common this time of the year, especially among children and women. Director of public health K   said the department is operating at least four phones lines for the public in addition to the 104 helpline. “Those having any health-related query or want to report an outbreak, if any call the control room, which is operational round the clock,” he said. 
 
 The   too has stepped up its initiatives to check the quality of food and water among street vendors. The department has released a series of brochures and pamphlets targeted at women at home, students, street vendors and big restaurants. 
 
 For any health-related query contact 104, 044-24350496 , 044-24334811, 09444340496, 09361482899.
 
 
