CHENNAI: Assailing the attempt made by private power generators established under ‘mega power policy’ of the state government, to convert their plants into a ‘captive power plant’ (to utilise majority of the power produced for their own purpose), after availing themselves of monetary benefits to the tune of Rs 100 crore from the government, a retired chief engineer of   (TANGEDCO) has approached Madras   to ensure that such plants supply 85% of power generated to  .

 Admitting the plea, the first bench of Chief Justice   and Justice   ordered notice to TANGEDCO returnable by April 13.
 
 According to petitioner R N Sekar, in terms of policy notified dated December 14, 2009 by the union ministry of power, the projects classified as ‘mega power projects’ would be required to tie up power supply of upto 85% of its capacity to the distribution companies (TANGEDCO) through long term power purchase agreements in accordance with the National Electricity Policy 2005.
 
 The tariff for sale of such power to the distribution companies would be determined by the electricity regulatory commissions of the respective states. The whole purpose and objective of having policy guidelines in relation to mega power projects was to substantially bring down tariffs from the identified mega projects to provide relief to state electricity boards from raising tariffs from generating stations, he added.
 
 “The benefits availed themselves of by such power plants which runs to over hundred crore, including subsidised procurement of coal, help reducing input costs. The mega power policy does not envisage to promote captive power plants for captive users. One of the conditions of the policy is that the tariff would be fixed by the state’s regulatory body. But if the private plants are allowed to convert as captive plants, the regulatory body would not have hold on the tariff,” petitioner’s counsel senior advocate   said.
 
 Noting that one of the respondent – IL and FS Tamil Nadu Power Company Limited — was one such company, he said that apart from monetary benefits, these companies have also availed of customs and excise duty concessions based on its categorisation as a provisional mega power project plant.
 
 He further alleged that TANGEDCO has grossly failed to exercise their statutory functions and take actions against such conversion, particularly that of IL and FS into a captive power plant.
 
 
