Tirupur: An   reply has shown various discrepancies and irregularities in implementing developmental works in Palangarai panchayat in Tirupur district between 2006 and 2012. However, former panchayt president M   Kumar has refuted all the allegations. 

 On Monday,   cadres, led by former Tirupur south MLA K Thangavel, petitioned the district collector seeking action against the former panchayat president or any officials based on the reply. They alleged that an amount of Rs 2.03 crore could have been swindled in this period. Even after the audit reports mentioned the irregularities, the revenue authorities failed to take action against former panchayat president or any other officials. They sought a special committee to probe into it.
 
 With population of around 20,000, Palangarai panchayat is one of the largest local bodies in Avinashi panchayat union generating annual revenue of Rs 1.5 crore. Palangarai panchayat bagged the Nirmal Gram Puraskar Award for cleanliness in the year 2005-06.
 
 M Senthil Kumar, who was in DMDK and later switched loyalty to  , was the president of the panchayat between 2006 and 2016. M   of CPM preceded Senthil Kumar for three tenures. Now, Palanisamy filed an RTI which showed that there could be corruption in the local body while Senthil was the president.
 
 As per the RTI information, Palangarai panchayat has spent Rs 1.57 crore for maintenance and repairing works in the drinking water distribution system between 2011 and 2016. In many places, the annual audit reports said the authorities have failed to produce valid work orders and the places where the maintenance works were conducted.
 
 It has spent Rs 14.8 lakh for purchasing electrical goods, many of which were not approved by district rural development agency. Highlighting the expenditure of Rs 8.1 lakh for maintenance of streetlights in 2012, the annual audit report said, “In panchayat, which has only 273 streetlight electrical posts, the authorities have failed to submit reason as to why they have spent an amount more than what the government had fixed.”
 
 The civic body has failed to produce bill receipts for spending Rs 11.04 lakh for electricity bill. On the other hand, the outstanding bill payment of the electricity was Rs 71.6 lakh, said the RTI. It added that Rs 4.5 lakh was spent without the consent of the panchayat president while the recipients’ signatures could not be found in the receipts for the works worth Rs 24.2 lakh.
 
 “I had sought the audit reports a decade since 2006 but the government gave the reports only for seven years but not for the last three years. But the given reports itself spoke about the corruption involved in the civic body,” said Palanisamy.
 
 Refuting all the charges, Senthil Kumar said, “There was no corruption in my period and we have all the records. If the discrepancies were found during the annual auditing, why would the authorities spare us?”
 
 R Selvan, secretary of the panchayat said, “It was normal that the auditors would pinpoint the mistakes on expenditures made, if any, and then, we would rectify it. We have enough records to show that there was no corruption. But Palanisamy, who seemed to have a ‘motive’ against Senthil, is making false claims.” When contacted, a DRDA higher official said, “We have not received the petition, so far, and we will look into it.”
 
 
