JAIPUR: Known for birds, Bharatpur is now buzzing with bees as honey-making has taken wing in a big way. From 28 metric tonnes of honey in 1997-98, Rajasthan today accounts for 4,100 metric tonnes, thanks to the contribution of Bharatpur that alone produces close to 1,800 tonnes.

 While states like Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh still remain the strong traditional geographies contributing much of the 80,000 metric tonne that India produces annually, the vast expanses of mustard fields in Bharatpur are now drawing large colonies of the stripped honey-makers making it the number one district in the country in terms of quantity of production.
 
 A state that is still slotted by Khadi and   (KVIV) as having least potential for apiculture, the ‘sweet revolution’ was not without an intervention. In the early 1990s, Lupin Human Welfare and Research Foundation ( ) sensed an opportunity in the pasturage of Bharatpur.
 
 “We conducted surveys, which indicated good possibilities for beekeeping. In 1992-93, two entrepreneurs of village Aghapur and one of our employees were sent to Hissar Agriculture University for practical training. When they came back, they were given 20 boxes of bee colonies which were stationed at Aghapur in the close vicinity of Keoladeo National Park (KNP). The experiment failed due to an attack of wild bees of KNP over the domesticated bees,” recalls  , executive director of LHWRF.
 
 But the failure led to more experiments taking assistance from and working with Central Bee Research & Training Institute in Pune, KVIC and other agencies. The activities gained momentum again. SIDBI and mirco-finance institutions were roped in to provide finance. Wherever difficulties arose, Lupin chipped in with funding.
 
 
  
  
 
 “Experimenting constantly, documenting and developing scientific practices, and empowering entrepreneurship skills has been the cornerstone of LHWRF’s efforts for promoting beekeeping activity in the district. Providing training, exposure visits and access to finance were also key components of our strategy to popularize the activity,” added Gupta.
 
 The success in Bharatpur intrigued chief minister  . In 2007, she appointed LHWRF as a nodal agency for a honey cluster development project to expand and organize the activity in the eastern districts of Rajasthan covering Hadauti region and Kota division. Keen to promote the low-cost and high returns economic activity, National Bee Board made LHWRF its member.
 
 “Economically, bee-keeping is highly rewarding. A colony of 50 boxes is the ideal size for a person to start the activity which costs around Rs 3 lakh. The government provides subsidies up to 40%. But in the first year of the activity, the entrepreneur earns about Rs 2.40 lakh from selling honey. Raw honey is sold at Rs 100-125 per kg. Each box produces about 50 kg honey annually. So the entrepreneur gets back his entire investment in the first year of operation,” said  , additional chief project coordinator, Lupin, Bharatpur.
 
 Gupta said LHWRF has supported about 3,000 bee-keeping entrepreneurs in Bharatpur who are mostly jobless youth and marginal farmers and the foundation has set a target to create 15,000 bee-keeping entrepreneurs. With activities rising and volume increasing, a couple of entrepreneurs have also set up a honey refining unit in Bharatpur.
 
 “About 8,000 metric tonnes are processed annually in the unit and a large chunk of it is exported. People from neighbouring states like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar bring their raw honey to process here,” added Gupta.
 
 Initially, farmers were apprehensive about bees damaging crops. But that notion changed completely when they realized that bees actually help the pollination of crops and increase the yield of oilseeds, pulses, fruits, etc by at least 15%. “It is an important agriinput. Beekeeping deserves to be recognized as an organic technology in raising farm production,” said Gupta said.
 
