Nagpur: There is permanent traffic chaos on Ravi Nagar-Ram Nagar road, especially at Ram Nagar Square.

 On Monday, however, traffic flowed smoothly here because the roadside vendors were removed and warned of seizure action if they returned. The reason why traffic police got cracking was that Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari has shifted his home and office temporarily from Mahal to Ravi Nagar-Ram Nagar road.
 
 Commissioner of police K Venkatesham on Sunday himself asked a couple of flower vendors doing business outside a temple by occupying footpath to vacate the place.
 
 TOI had many times in the past reported that Ram Nagar square and its vicinity were the most chaotic traffic in west Nagpur. The road is quite wide. However, rampant encroachments on either side of the road create bottlenecks. The presence of heavy vehicles and encroachments leaves traffic crawling. The shrinking road space is a matter of annoyance for motorists. However, it seems the traffic police need a VIP to get into action.
 
 Civic activist Dinesh Naidu welcomed traffic cops' move. He said, “Now, all encroachments along the Ravi Nagar and Ambazari Swimming Pool T-point have been removed.” He wondered, however, why the cops did it only when a VIP shifted to the place. “Why not remove encroachments on a regular basis round the year from every part of Nagpur,” he asked.
 
 That cops do things only for VIPs is clear if one one looks at North Bazar Road between Laxmi Bhavan Square and Ram Nagar Square. The entire footpath on this stretch has been encroached by flowers and fruit vendors, leaving no space for people to walk. They occupy not just the footpaths but also a major portion of the road.
 
 These vendors alone are not to blame. Vehicles of customers, handcarts and shops on footpaths also add to the chaos. Yet, neither traffic cops nor NMC are acting here. 
 
 Raju Wagh, founder of Jeevan Suraksha Prakalp and working president of Apghat Mukt Nagpur Samiti, said there was no place for encroachments in a city. “We appreciate traffic police efforts in removing the encroachers from Ram Nagar square but it will be only for the time being as Gadkari has shifted here temporarily. May VIPs should be asked to live on all major roads,” he added.
 
 MLC Prakash Gajbhiye termed the action illegal and said hawkers should be provided a hawkers zone.
 
 Traffic police and NMC should not show double standards. Encroachments should be removed permanently and encroachers allotted proper place in notified markets, the MLC said claiming he had raised the issue in the legislative council too.
 
 Commissioner of police K Venkatesham admitted he had urged the flower vendors to vacate the footpath as they were causing jams. Asked about other spots, the top cop replied: “Actually it is the job of Nagpur Municipal Corporation to clear footpaths and roads of encroachments.” 
 
 
