GHAZIABAD: A 50-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself in her flat in GH7 society in   on Tuesday. Her pet dog, a 14-year-old black Labrador, lay dead on a sofa nearby, apparently poisoned by her.

 All this is believed to have happened while   was taking a nap. Madhusudan woke up around 5.30pm and found the body of his wife Karuna hanging from the ceiling fan in the adjacent room of their seventh-floor flat. “Our pet dog Bruno lay dead on the sofa. It seems Karuna poisoned him before committing suicide,” Madhusudan said on Wednesday after a police team reached his house and brought down the body.
 
 The police are also keeping a watch on Madhusudan (60), who claimed he too had contemplated suicide after finding his wife dead but could not muster the courage to do so and informed cops at the local police outpost on Wednesday afternoon, almost 24 hours after Karuna died. 
 
  
  
 A note, allegedly scribbled in bold by Karuna on the wall, read, ‘This House is Haunted…Madhur Jain of  , Rohini, Delhi has killed us.’
 
 Police said Madhusudan had told them he was heavily under debt and was facing a cheque-bounce case. “During questioning, Madhusudan told us he was a contractor and had dealings with Delhi-based Heydey Communications. He owed them Rs 12 lakh but, about seven months ago, the cheque he had given to them bounced. Following this, the company had filed a case against Madhusudan at Rohini court,” said  , who heads the Crossings Republik police outpost.
 
 Madhusudan was served a notice a fortnight ago and since then the couple had gone into depression, police said. “They feared they would have to go to jail,” said Tyagi. 
 
 The couple lived in flat number 10102 in GH7 along with Bruno. They bought the flat in 2010 but, due to financial constraints, sold it to a colonel and shifted to Delhi in 2012. In 2013, the new owner of the house requested that they shift to this house, to which the couple agreed. “We had to pay rent and with no fixed source of income, it was very difficult to carry on with life,” said  . The couple had no children and no relatives other than Madhusudan’s brother.
 
 Circle officer   said, “We are awaiting the postmortem report of the woman and her dog. Only after this will we be in a position to say something conclusively.” Though not detained, Madhsudan has been kept under watch. “After finding Karuna dead, I went out with an intent to commit suicide,” Madhusudan said on Wednesday afternoon, adding, he roamed the whole night in the vicinity of Crossings Republik and sat in a park in the Golf Course area. “I could not muster the courage to kill myself so I roamed around here and there the whole night and came back to the flat,” he added.
 
 
