MUMBAI: The   has chalked out a plan to make four wards in the suburbs garbage free in its long-term quest for acleaner Mumbai.

 It includes eliminating public garbage collection points, and getting the contractor to start a toll-free number where complaints about accumulation of garbage can be made and the grievance addressed immediately. The plan hinges on appointing a single garbage contractor for a ward to put a stop to passing the buck among them in case of deficient services.
 
  
 The four wards where the project will roll out are R Central (Borivli), R South (Kandivli), R North (Dahisar) and T(Mulund). The BMC wants public garbage collection points in the wards closed in six months. If that does not happen, it will levy a penalty on him of Rs 500 per 8-hour shift on the contractor.
 
 The proposal to be tabled before the civic standing committee later this week will include appointment of contractors for collection and transportation of garbage for the four wards at a cost of about Rs 400 crore for seven years. “One contractor will be appointed to handle the garbage generated in each ward. He will be responsible for everything, namely providing bins to the housing society, collecting the garbage, employing labourers to transport the garbage, and ensuring it reaches the dumping grounds,” said an official from the solid waste management department. “We are working towards making the city garbage-free.
 
 The contractors will be responsible for eliminating garbage collection points in these areas within six months and also start a toll-free public helpline so that if there is excess garbage in case of any social gatherings, it can be immediately collected,” he explained.
 
 In another development, contractors bidding for the tenders did it at almost 97% more than the estimated cost, leading to a proposal from the civic administration to issue showcause notices to the solid waste management department officials involved in drafting the tender. “It’s difficult to understand how someone could prepare such a low estimate. Seeking some clarity, we have proposed showcause notices be given to the concerned officials,” said a senior official.
 
 An official explained that the contract required the contractor to chalk out the entire plan for collection and transportation of garbage and, therefore, the rates estimated by them and proposed by the contractor did not match.
 
