Nagpur: Age-old aesthetic buildings, underwater adventures, sneak peek into the space and street side candid, imaginations of the young artists knew no bounds during the ‘On Spot Painting and Photography Competitions’, which flagged off the much-awaited five-day ‘Athena Fest’ organized by   College in association with The Times Of India on the college premises on Wednesday.

 The two out of the 10 events, inaugurated on Day 1, were introduced in the festival for the first time and received an overwhelming response. Schoolkids too got a chance to participate in the painting contest.
 
 “All the competitions during the festival are actually a reflection of the activities of different clubs in the college. Likewise, The Kalakars and Shoot at Sight are the clubs promoting fine arts and photography,” said convener, Lovely Menachery.
 
 The executive team members racked their brains to come up with interesting topics for all categories which were revealed to the participants merely 15 minutes before the start of the event. Despite such a short duration to think, the creativity of young minds was commendable as they managed to pour their heart out through the art. Considering the heritage tag which Hislop College has been bestowed with, ‘Historical Monuments’ was the theme for high school students along with ‘Sunken Treasures’.
 
 Taj Mahal was a big hit among the kids as most of them painted their own versions of the monument. The epitome of love covered with rustic shades of mustard, brown and olive green caught the attention of onlookers along with silhouettes and neon theme. An Eiffel Tower splashed with cool colors and neatly done Red Fort were a treat to the eyes. Apart from the mainstream heritage structures, Deekshabhoomi too was unmissable. Mermaids, scuba divers, sea animals, underwater stash, legendary Titanic and even the whole ‘Atlantis City’ were seen following the other theme.
 
 For the elder artists, the topic revolved around ‘Interstellar’, a Hollywood science fiction movie based on planet exploration. Here the artists used water colours and spray paint to depict the galaxy. They also finely painted astronauts, space shuttles and different planets. The second topic was a portrait of ‘Robert Downey Jr’, American actor popularly known for his character of ‘Ironman’. 
 
 About 40 enthusiasts got their hands on   to capture moments for the ‘street photography’. Student coordinator Kuwarjit Arora said, “We come across many things everyday while commuting but don’t pay much attention to it. The real challenge for a lensman is to create an image portraying something unique and has a story to tell.”
 
 
