NOIDA: Members of the Sector 18 market association met Noida MLA   on Saturday and sought his intervention for reducing the fee at the multi-level car park managed by DLF. 

 The traders also demanded that the Noida Authority scrap the deal struck with DLF to maintain the multi-level car park and the surface parking lot. The Sector 18 market association has been organising protests demanding the parking fee be brought down.
 
 DLF has said the rates were not fixed by the company but by the Authority which had issued the tenders. No official from the Noida Authority could be reached for a comment.
 
 The delegation pointed out that DLF charged Rs 1,000 for towing away a vehicle to the multi-level car park while the regular rate was Rs 300.
 
 Sushil Kumar Jain, the president of the market association, said the fee for parking a car at the multi-level facility is Rs 30 for the first two hours, and an additional Rs 10 for every extra hour. 
 
 He also pointed out that the rate at the surface parking lot is Rs 20 an hour.
 
 “The parking contract has been given with an intention to ruin the business of Sector 18. DLF is the owner of Mall of India. They are in direct competition with us,” he said. “Their parking contract should be cancelled and two different companies should be invited for managing the multi-level car park and the surface parking along the road.”
 
 BS Bhasin, general secretary of the association, suggested that the rates should be revised to Rs 20 for 8 hours at the roadside parking and Rs 10 for 8 hours at the multi-level facility.
 
 Dev Baisoya, head (operations) at the DLF Mall of India, said the company was only following tender guidelines issued by the Authority.
 
 Lack of parking space has been an issue in the sector. Of the eight floors at the multi-level parking, only three have been functioning as of now, accommodating 900 vehicles every day. Once fully functional, the   can accommodate 2,800 cars across the eight floors and another 1,000 in the surface parking lot.
 
 
