NEW DELHI: The wait for a bus in Delhi can be tiring. It could arrive in a minute or in 30 minutes. At times, it becomes a test of patience. Many would say with an air of resignation that “it’s life”. 

 But imagine this: you get out of your house and figure out where your bus is and how long it would take to reach you with a single swipe. This could soon be reality.
 
 The   has made it mandatory for   to be GPS-enabled by April 1. And   would crack down on vehicles that don’t have functional   from next month. In the next few months, it is hoped that the entire two-lakh strong public transport fleet in the capital, including buses, taxis and autorickshaws, would be linked to a central control room. This would have several pluses. 
 
 Dr Sewaram, professor of transport planning, School of Planning and Architecture, said with GPS tracking it would be possible to find out the exact location of buses in Delhi. But it is important to make that information available at bus stops for easy access. 
 
 “Bus operators will also get to know the exact time taken by a bus to complete a route so you can re-plan the route according to actual conditions. You can also find out if buses are actually halting at stoppages or not,” Sewaram said. 
 
 GPS tracking would also make the vehicles safer to travel in, believes Professor P K Sarkar, director, transportation, Asian Institute of Transport Development. Sarkar said there needs to be an interface between GPS data received and a traffic management centre, preferably managed by the  .
 
 “The police would be then able to monitor or at least retrieve data, and vehicle drivers would be afraid to commit any crime. Automatic vehicle locating would help in finding the exact position vehicles. This is the reason why many autorickshaw drivers don’t want to get these installed,” Sarkar said.
 
 He added, “GPS is part of intelligent transport system and without it we can’t go ahead. At a bus stand, commuters would be able to see what time a bus would arrive, and even the speed of the vehicle and its position would be available,” he said.
 
 S Velumurugan, senior principal scientist, traffic engineering and safety division at CSIR-CRRI, said GPS also helps in better traffic management. “If a particular route is congested, you can plan an alternative route. There are about 780 bus routes in Delhi and GPS will help in changing routes if one particular route is longer or clogged. This is one major advantage of GPS and will help in putting in place an advanced public transport management system,” Velumurugan said. 
 
 While the new system would be a novelty in India, similar systems are in place abroad. “While in developed countries, real-time bus arrival information is available at bus stops, we don’t have such infrastructure yet. However, the information can be made available online and those with smartphones can access it,” Velumurugan said. 
 
  
 
 Automotive expert Anil Chhikara believes the biggest benefit of GPS tracking would be control on speeding. “Speed governors in majority of vehicles are not working or have been tampered with. Road accident fatalities are directly proportional to the speed of vehicles. Checking speeding vehicles on the road is a tedious and dangerous process, but GPS can give you accurate data and fool-proof evidence from a control centre,” Chhikara said. 
 
 He added, “Apart from public service vehicles, goods vehicles should also have GPS devices as they too are involved in many fatal accidents.”
 
 A better life on the road may be possible. 
 
 
