Jaipur: Fuel prices have touched an all-time high on Tuesday with petrol reaching Rs 76.66 per litre and diesel Rs 69.12. The steep increase in prices is burning a hole in the pocket of people in the city.

 People complaint that poor public transport has left them with no option but to use their own vehicles. Besides, the fear of rising prices of commodities looming large over their heads.
 
 The rise has disrupted the domestic budget of middle class households who are facing the pinch of price rise in all fronts.
 
 Bhashkar Sharma, a floor in-chrge in a mall at Bais Godam, bought a petrol car two years ago has completely shifted to motorbike from the last three months due to fuel price hike.
 
 "I purchased my car not to park for days but the fuel price rise has made it out of my reach. I live at Malaviya Nagar and it costs 1.5 litre a day even if I use it for my work. It means spending a minimum of Rs 100 a day on fuel. I am spending almost half the amount on my bike making some savings,” said Sharma.
 
 The price of petrol in October was Rs 73.53 per litre which shot up to Rs 76.66 as on April 3. The hike may be of Rs 3 but it matters for families who consume 30 to 50 litre fuel per month.
 
 Aman Naqvi (25), a lawyer, now occasionally goes go out to meet his friends in his car. “Everything around us increasing—school fees, movie tickets, price of a popcorn and fuel. In order not to cross the budget, I have slashed a bit from everything including my car trips,” said Naqvi.
 
 The middle level independent businessman who couldn’t hike the price of products/services due to competition are making less profit. “I supply MDH spices in entire Kishangarh territory in my pick-up van. I cover the cost of transport from my profit margin which has not changed from long. I cannot push my retail amount which will end up losing clients. So, my profits have reduced and I am thinking to terminate the service of my one helper to make up the loss,” said Ankit Goyal, a retailer based in Kishangarh.
 
 The transporters are left with no choice to increase the transport cost which has started the rise in price of every commodity. Narendra Yadav of Delhi-Rajasthan Transport Co Ltd says that they have increase the transport cost by 10% in the last six months. “Diesel price is skyrocketing added with GST has put are margins all-time low. The increase of 10% made in several phases. It has reduced the work impacting our revenues,” said Yadav.
 
 
