CHANDIGARH: The paid parking charges have doubled within a period of just three months. The commuters have, however, termed the move as ‘completely unjustified and surprising’. The rates have increased but the situation in the parking lots remain the same. The commuters have to suffer a lot to get a proper place to park the vehicle. Either most of the parking lots are overcrowded or haphazard parking creates trouble for the commuter.

 After the charges were doubled on Sunday, a TOI team visited two prominent paid parking lots in Sector 17, Chandigarh in the evening. The correspondent found that the situation of the parking lots worsens in the evening.
 
 Besides, the city residents, hundreds of people who throng Sector 17 market, also known as the heart of the city, weren’t happy with the revised parking rates and that too, within, three months. Most of the visitors termed the increase in parking charges as ‘unfair’.
 
 On our visit to Sector 17, we noticed illegal parking is rampant in the city. The vehicles were parked in a haphazard manner, thus creating inconvenience for many commuters. We noticed how people rushed to the counter with their slip and asked those at the counter to remove the illegally parked vehicles so that they can move their cars. In the meantime, parking attendants were only seen at the entry points. Since there was no attendant in the parking lot to facilitate the commuters to park the vehicles properly, it only increased the problems of the people manifold.
 
 Shamsher Thakur, a resident of  , while talking to TOI, said, “I am a regular visitor here. I visit most of the city markets and I feel that doubling the charges within three months is not justified at all. The authorities should work for the welfare of the citizens. They shouldn’t be minting the money especially in a situation like this where the parking lots are badly managed.”
 
 Ashok Kumar, a resident of Sector 44 said, “The way people are being financially burdened is surprising. If the authority provides top class facility, then we will love to shell out extra money. But, look at the situation in the parking lots of the city? How can we pay extra in this situation?”
 
 Though, the city mayor has already given assurance that he would talk to the   governor and Chandigarh administrator on the issue, but now it will be interesting to see that in this tussle of political body and executive body of UT MC, who will reign and will the facilities improve in the near future or the commuters will continue to suffer?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 If the authority has decided to double the paid parking charges within a period of just three months, why they did not think about providing top-class facility to the people? In case they provided the commuters with better facilities, we wouldn’t have felt the pinch in our pockets. The government has been taking all means to make as many holes as possible in our pockets |  , a resident of Kharar
 
 There is no space in the parking lot and I found it immensely difficult to park my vehicle in the parking lot. Now, if I visit three to four markets with my family for shopping on any given day, I will have to shell out Rs 100 only for parking. This is not justified at all| Rupinder Singh, a visitor of Sector 17 on Sunday
 
 There is hardly any space in the parking lot. They have doubled the parking rates. There is no facility in the name of smart parking at all here. I am against it | JK Singh, a Mohali resident, who visited sector 17 market with his family
 
 I am really surprised how the authority has increased the parking charges within such a short span of time. The parking lots lack basic facilities | Sonali, a UT resident and visitor of sector 17 market 
 
 
