PUNE: The crime branch on Friday booked six men, including two beat marshals, for abducting the general manager of a construction firm and his driver. 

 The incident took place on May 23, when the complainant and his driver were abducted for a ransom of Rs14.3 lakh.
 
  (37) of Vadgaon Khurd and his driver,  , were on the way home when four men on two motorcycles intercepted them around 6pm at Sopan Baug. 
 
 One of the four men attacked Navghune and pushed him into the passenger seat, taking control of the wheel. Two others got into the SUV, sitting next to Katkamwar. One man pointed a pistol at Katkamwar’s stomach. The SUV was driven around the city, while the fourth man followed on the motorcycle. 
 
 According to the police, the suspects told Katkamwar that they were abducting him for ransom as his firm had purchased huge tracts of land from farmers without paying them proper compensation in 2006. Rahul protested his innocence.
 
 The suspects further told Katkamwar that the farmers gave their boss a contract (supari) to kidnap and extract ransom from him.
 
 Katkamwar first told them he would only be able to afford to give them Rs1 lakh as he was a salaried individual, but they threatened to kill him if he didn’t cough up the full amount, police said.
 
 According to senior inspector   of the crime branch (unit five), a terrified Rahul arranged Rs14.3 lakh from various sources, including his wife, relatives and friends, and even withdrew some cash from an ATM. He handed over the ransom to his abductors, following which they let him go at   the following day. 
 
 The incident came to light on May 25 after Rahul contacted joint commissioner of police  , who in turn transferred the investigation to the crime branch. 
 
 An FIR has been lodged under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act.
 
 Beat marshals booked
 
 In his complaint, Rahul Katkamwar also named two beat marshals posted at Bharati Vidyapeeth police station. Katkamwar alleged in the complaint that the two marshals received Rs2.4 lakh from the abductors when they stopped the SUV for a routine check at Katraj. Katkamwar said the marshals found the massive cache of cash in the SUV and threatened to take action. According to the complaint, the suspects handed over some cash in a plastic bag to the marshals, following which they were allowed and had threatened to take action on discovering huge cash. The marshals then allowed the suspects to go, he alleged. 
 
 
