GURUGRAM: The misery of around 550 families living in the condominium   which has no road connectivity, is likely to end.

    has finalised a deal to acquire land for construction of the missing portion of the 1.5km-long and 60m-wide sector 70-71 road, to provide access to the society. 
 
 Huda had acquired land over a 1.3km stretch, but acquisition of a 200m stretch was held back, due to which the road could not be completed so far. Now, Huda has finalised a deal with the land owners to acquire around seven acres for Rs 40 crore, to construct the remaining 200m of the road and ensure connectivity to CHD Avenue.
 
 “Land owners have given their consent and we have finalised the plan to get it. After a meeting of our land acquisition committee on Wednesday, the file will be send to the head office and the CM’s office for approval,” said Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav, adding that land owners will be paid once approval is granted, and possession of the land can be taken immediate afterwards. Land owners have already given their consent, so taking possession won’t be an issue.
 
 He said construction of the road will be completed as early as possible. “Estimate of the road is ready, so once we get possession, construction can start within a month,” said Yadav.
 
 Delay in completion of the road has forced residents to live in islands. Spread across 16 acre, CHD Avenue is in   village and consists of 861 apartments, of which 550 have been occupied since 2014, but residents complain they are still waiting for authorities to deliver basic amenities.
 
 The main access of the society is through the sector 70-71 master road, which is incomplete. In the interim period, the developer had leased out a 300-400m-long stretch to connect the society with Captain Chandan Lal Marg, an internal road that leads to Sohna road and NH-8. 
 
 However, on January 15, land owner had dug up the road, blaming the developer for not paying rent for the stretch. Thereafter, Huda and residents held multiple meetings with the land owners and eventually managed to prepare a plan for acquisition of the land to complete the road.
 
 Ravi Ahuja, president of the CHD Avenue RWA, said, “We’ve been getting assurances for a long time. It’s now time for action. We’ve been approaching the authorities for the road during the past three years since we began living here.”  , another resident, said, “Every day is a challenge for residents to reach home. We hope the road will be ready soon.”
 
 
