

 
 
 The legal process will have to be followed. I would prefer to talk about the cases which came to the commission and it was found that they were not false. If you see the percentage, it would give a different connotation altogether. Nevertheless, there is a set procedure under law for a case to be cancelled. For that, the government has set up committees at the district level and deputy commissioners are the nodal officers along with the prosecution. That will be followed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Facts would differ from case to case. At the same time, there is an obligation on the police to register each and every case, wherever or not a cognizable offence is made out. This is as per   directions. On the one hand, the police are expected under law to register a case whosoever comes and if somebody is making a false complaint, there is a procedure to take action against him as well.
 
 
 
 Again, we need to appreciate the legal process. Unless and until the cancellation report is accepted by the court concerned and it declares an officer guilty of registering a false case, we cannot act. Whenever a case is put up for cancellation, the magistrate is under legal obligation to call the complainant and then seek his personal hearing on whether he is satisfied with the report which has been submitted or not. So, due opportunity has to be given to the complainant as well as the victim. Only after that can a court take a decision. Thereafter, it is open to the complainant to take a call and he may appeal against the lower court’s decision in the high court. Until the issue takes finality, how can you hold a police officer guilty? He is also to be given a due opportunity.
 
 
 
 
 I have always said that there will never be revival of the Khalistan demand. Nevertheless, there are some fringe elements which keep raising the bogey of Khalistan, either because they want to remain relevant within their own group or because they want to make a few extra dollars. They have even started misguiding the unemployed youth in Punjab now. And, as an incentive they are giving them some funding and an illusion that they will be settled abroad. Beyond this, I don’t give any serious consideration to this.
 
 
 Why do we have to put it this way? I would say Punjab police is capable of handling any situation that may arise in the future. To further strengthen this, we have recently got a sanction for setting up a special operations group which is undergoing training. We will put it into operation very soon.
 
 In the Maur IED blast case, Punjab police finally made a breakthrough by producing four witnesses before the court on February 8. Why has the trail gone cold thereafter? Former   MLA Harminder Singh Jassi is seeking a   investigation.
 
 When things are under investigation, they never go cold. In certain cases, you make a breakthrough immediately and in some cases it takes time. I would say the investigation is on track and we will definitely succeed.
 
 
 
 
 I would say that we need to take three steps. One step we have already taken is establishing a special organised crime control unit (OCCU) under an inspector-general. Since the movement of these criminals is inter-district and inter-state, this is the unit that is keeping an overall bigger picture in mind and results are there in front of you. Secondly, we need to go in for more case trials by video-conferencing. The proposal is with the government at the moment. The third step is coming up with the Punjab Control of Organised Crime Act (PCOCA) which I had been talking about. It is again under the consideration of the government. You have to see the outcome of our actions thus far. If the fear factor is not there and witnesses get threatened, how do you take control of the crime situation? So, there are certain procedural issues which can be taken care by the PCOCA.
 
 
 
 
 We have all passed through youth where there is a certain fascination for violence and guns. It is difficult to quantify the impact that songs glorifying guns may have, and I am not saying this is the only reason behind crime in Punjab. You will find crime in societies that don’t glorify guns as well. But if you are a parent, then you will be the first person to say that singers of popular songs must not glorify guns. I think it is the collective responsibility of society to fight against crime. The police is not the only stakeholder in this fight. This appeal is to the singers’ conscience.
 
 There is a belief that multiple agencies dealing with drugs are creating confusion. Internal politicking among police officers and bureaucrats has marred the initiative. Your comments.
 
 This is an absolutely wrong perception. It is a coordinated effort and it is reflected in the higher seizures that all the agencies have made. The statistics will speak for themselves. I don’t think there is any confusion or politics. This is a wrong perception and many times unwarranted.
 
 
 
 
 The CBI is the nodal authority for executing red corner notices through the Interpol. We keep following it up and I think it is at quite an advanced stage.
 
 But none of the accused have been extradited so far.
 
 Not yet. But it is a lengthy procedure and it is pending in court.
 
 It had been over two years since the Behbal Kalan firing took place, but we have not been able to identify the cops who were responsible for the killing of two Sikh men protesting against desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib. The Justice Ranjit Singh commission found that even the bullets recovered from the site had been tampered with. Your comments.
 
 The issue is under investigation. I would not like to comment on it. Before the commission gives its final report, it would not be appropriate for me to say anything.
 
 
 
 
 This case is now being investigated by the National Investigation Agency. They would know the exact situation.
 
 
 
 
 They are wanted in a different case as well. They have been declared proclaimed offenders here. I believe that either Interpol red corner notices have been issued against them or are under process. As of now, they are still wanted and absconding.
 
