NAGPUR: Government agencies are expected to observe rules framed by other state departments. However, this is not the case with division No. 1 of the state’s public works department ( ). The officials are brazenly violating rules of   (NMC) by letting out parking slot of Vasantrao   in Civil Lines for holding exhibitions.

 When this fact was pointed out to Mahesh Morone, assistant commissioner of NMC’s Dharampeth zone, he said he would issue a notice to PWD officials.
 
 As per NMC rules, a land or building can be used only for the purpose mentioned in the building plan and city development plan. If a building in a residential area is used for commercial purpose then it is illegal. In this case, the PWD is using the land meant for parking for commercial purpose.
 
 This is not only violation of law but creates traffic congestion on the road in front of Deshpande Hall. Many times functions are held in the auditorium when an exhibition is going on in the parking lot. As a result, people don’t get space to park their vehicles inside the hall premises and park them on the road.
 
 JH Bhanuse, executive engineer of division No. 1, who permits these exhibitions, sees nothing wrong in letting out the parking area. “The hall is not used for days together. We are only increasing government’s revenue. The money goes to the department’s account,” he said.
 
 According to Bhanuse, traffic congestion is created when exhibitions are held in the adjoining South Central Zone Cultural Centre (SCZCC). “The centre does not have parking space for vehicles. Many times over 2,000 people visit the exhibitions in a day. They park their vehicles in Deshpande Hall and MLA Hostel and when there is no space left, the visitors park them on the road. We do not let out the entire parking area but only a part of it. People who visit the exhibitions park their vehicles in the vacant space,” he said.
 
 PWD’s division No. 1 has been in the news mostly for wrong reasons. In the past, TOI has highlighted how crores were wasted on preparations for winter session of the state legislature. Earlier, 24 engineers were suspended for poor quality renovation work.
 
 
