NEW DELHI:   President   on Sunday alleged that Prime Minister   was supplying to American companies data on Indians who had signed up for his “NAMO app”, continuing his attack on the saffron camp since the Centre accused him of engaging controversial data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica — a charge categorically denied by the opposition party. 

 
 Setting off another round of political sparring, Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “Hi! My name is Narendra Modi. I am India’s PM. When you sign up for my official app, I give all your data to my friends in American companies.”
 
  
  
 
 The tweet tagged a web report which stated that a French cyber expert has claimed that personal data of subscribers to “Namo app” was automatically sent to a third-party domain without consent. Rahul has been tweeting incessantly since law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad alleged at a press conference that Congress had engaged controversial data mining firm CA. Prasad cited media reports to ask Congress if it would manipulate data to win the 2019 polls. The CA is at the centre of a storm for illegally harvesting Facebook data.
 
 While Congress roundly dismissed the allegations and asserted it had never hired the services of CA, Rahul called Prasad’s allegations as a ploy to divert popular attention from death of 39 Indians in Iraq which triggered off biting criticism of the   government.
 
 The row took a new turn when the India partner of CA alleged that the company may have tried to “infiltrate and sabotage” Congress in 2012. Rahul alleged the Congress-CA links were “manufactured” by BJP to bury the revelation. An angry AICC chief accused minister Prasad of lying for PM Modi as Goebbels did for Hitler.
 
 
  
 In a series of tweets, BJP countered Rahul Gandhi’s twitter jibe at  , saying it shows that the Congress President and his party colleagues have “zero knowledge” of technology and even accused the opposition party of taking help of data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica for electoral contests. 
 
  
  
 
 Party said that Gandhi is no match for Narendra Modi and his fright about the NaMo app is very amusing. “When his bots tried to trend #DeleteNamoApp day before yesterday (Friday), the popularity and downloads of NaMo app only increased. Today, it will be no different!”
 
 “All they can do is scare the masses about technology while they continue to steal data using his ‘Brahmastra’ of Cambridge Analytica,” the party said, reiterating its allegations that Congress used stolen data from Facebook during the recent polls.
 
 Responding to the charges that NaMo app was sharing users’ data, the party said contrary to Gandhi’s lies, data are being used for only analytics, using third party service, similar to Google Analytics. “Analytics on the user data is done for offering users the most contextual content,” it said.
 
  
  
 
 BJP clarified that this ensures that a user gets the best experience by showing content in his language and interests. “A person who looks up agri-related info will get agri-related content easily. A person from TN will get updates in Tamil and get an update about an important initiative about TN.”
 
 BJP also highlighted Rahul’s candid admission during an interaction in Karnataka that he was unaware of NCC. “Rahul Gandhi is in sublime form these days. After MRI & NCC, today he exposes his great knowledge about technology. He is so rattled by the Cambridge Analyitca expose that he daily tries to divert attention from it, yesterday (Saturday) it was the judiciary and today (Sunday) it is Namo App,” BJP said. BJP said Rahul should download the NaMo App to keep himself abreast with the good things happening in India. 
 
 
