KOCHI: Despite the   revising the road restoration charges, Kochi corporation is processing an application by the   ( ) with lower rates, which was fixed earlier. 

 
 The corporation authorities are learnt to have put the item on council's agenda for giving road cutting sanction to IOAGPL without considering the recommendation by the works standing committee that the rates should be fixed according to changes in the rate decided by the government.
 
 Earlier, the corporation had been charging higher rates, but IOAGPL, the agency which implements the city gas project, approached the state government seeking lower rate. Later, the state government introduced uniform rates, which is very less compared to the corporation's rate, for all local bodies and   last year. 
 
 In the last week of May, the state government revised the rates bringing it almost at par with the higher rates fixed by the corporation earlier. 
 
 After months-long dispute over road restoration charges, the corporation started to process the application for road cutting permits by IOAGPL six months ago. The works standing committee processed the application and sent it for the approval of the council in April. The item has been included in the agenda of the council meeting to be held on Monday.
 
 The earlier rates fixed by the corporation for restoring bituminous macadam and bituminous concrete (BM-BC) roads was around Rs 5,800 per metre square. Later, the state government, while considering IOAGPL's petition, slashed the rates to Rs 3,600 per metre square. In the last week of May, the government again increased the rate to Rs 5,600 per square metre. 
 
 As the corporation's health standing committee processed the IOAGPL application two months ago, the charges were worked out based on the existing rate, which was Rs 3,600 per square metre.
 
 "If the revised rates are not charged, the corporation will suffer huge revenue loss. So, the agenda for granting road cutting sanction should be postponed," a councillor belonging to the ruling front said.
 
