Only the best of friends and the worst of enemies visit us,' reads a board at Jaisalmer’s BSF camp near the Indo-Pak border. In last two years, many 'best of friends' from   have visited the camp. From Arjun Kapoor, John Abraham, Ajay Devgn to their recent guests, Manoj Bajpayee and Sidharth Kapoor – actors have spent days with jawans at their camp. However, it’s not just the Indo-Pak border, Bollywood stars visit paramilitary forces quite frequently in areas like Jammu, Amritsar and Manipur. While actors call it an enriching experience, the jawans say that it these visits give them a break from their tough, monotonous life, especially in the  .

  
  Manoj Bajpayee, Sidharth Malhotra, Rakul Preet Singh and Pooja Chopra trained with the jawans at the BSF camp in Jaisalmer in January 13 this year
 
  
 Many stars visit border areas and spend time with jawans. BSF’s frontier headquarters in Jammu has hosted celebs like Akshay Kumar, Kangana Ranaut and Nana Patekar over the last 18 months. Talking about what these visits mean to jawans stationed at the headquarter, Ram Awtar, IG, BSF, says, "Life can get very tough, challenging and monotonous for jawans stationed on the border. These visits act as a clutter breaker and give them a little break. It’s also good for their morale to get a chance to meet their favourite celebrity and interact with them."
 
  
  Vidya Balan met BSF jawaans in Kutch in November, 2017
 
 Officials tell us that stars visiting the camp gives them the opportunity to organise a fun event for the families too. "Families of many jawans live here, almost cut-off from the rest of the world. These visits are a good way of recreation, it is almost like a festival that day," says a senior BSF official.
 
  
  Varun Dhawan visited ITBP personnel in Delhi in August last year
 
  
 All the paramilitary forces have their bands, which can play filmy tunes too, and when actors visit these camps, the personnel turn it into a true Bollywood event.
 
  An ITBP jawan says, "When Varun Dhawan came to ITBP camp last year, he was overwhelmed to hear our band play a song from 'Judwaa'. He hugged many of us, and even danced with us. He was also very surprised when we sang 'Tan Tana Tan Tan Taara with him'."
 
  
  Kangana Ranaut at BSF Frontier Headquarters, Jammu in February, 2017
 
  A BSF jawan posted in Jaisalmer says, “We get a lot of compliments. The funniest part is when an actor visits our camp, and says, "Oh! aap is shehar se hain, maine apni film ki shooting ki thi wahan. Also, at times it’s hard for celebs to believe that we are movie buffs. They would often say ‘Woh meri ek film thi, pata nahi aap jante hain ya nahi’ and then suddenly many jawans would raise their hands, telling the actor that they can even recite dialogues of that film."
 
  He adds, "We might not get to see latest releases, but when we get time, we catch up. We are movie buffs too and we’ve seen more movies than they could guess."
 
  
  Vidyut Jamwal visited CISF Special Security Guard (SSG) camp in Greater Noida in March, 2017
 
  
 When asked what advice they would give to the stars visiting camps, a CISF jawan, says, "Kisi bhi camp mein koi bhi actor aata hai, toh woh kehte hain – ‘Aap toh real hero hain, hum to bas screen pe hero hai’. We feel proud when they say it, but they don’t need to! They are heroes, and we also look forward to meeting them as much as they want to."
 
  A BSF jawan shares,"At an event in Jaisalmer, three actors told me a same thing, 'You guys are real heroes.' I wanted to tell them – but you’re my hero and I'm a huge fan."
 
  
  Shah Rukh Khan celebrated   with jawans last year
 
  
 When Sushant Singh Rajput visited the CRPF camp last year, he met the women squad and was quite impressed with their commando Ranibala’s martial art skills. When   visited the CISF camp in Greater Noida, he participated in a push-up contest with the jawans. A BSF official says, "We get many compliments for our fitness and our schedule.This is something they can relate to. They discuss their fitness schedules with us. They ask us questions like kitane push-ups karta hoon, aapko iss exercise ko karne mein kitna time lagta hai, we enjoy such conversations. For us, what’s routine, for them it’s our fitness schedule!"
 
  
  
 
 
  
 At camps, the schedule is strict, so how’s the visit accommodated? A senior CISF official clears that question for us, "There’s no question of disturbing the daily schedule of jawans because the visits are planned keeping the routine in mind. Sometimes, we schedule it for lunch hour or in the evening."
 
  Sometimes it’s for movie promotion, and sometimes actors want to meet jawans. But for any visit, clearance is required from the headquarters. Amit Lodha, DIG told us, "It doesn’t take much time for us to give a nod to a visit. After the BSF receives request for star visits, it is assessed from HQ and then permission is given."
 
  
  
 
  
 The senior officials say that when actors come to meet jawans, it’s motivating for them too.  , an ITBP official posted in Delhi, says, "We have put up a photograph of Akshay Kumar meeting with jawans at ITBP headquarter in Delhi. Any day you walk into our office and you’ll find a small crowd there. Akshay ki photo ke saamne aap ko paanch dus jawan kabhi bhi mil jayenge. Wherever such pictures are put up after stars’ visits, it becomes a point of discussion. Some even click their selfies with those photos."
 
  
  Akshay Kumar visited ITBP personnel in Delhi in August last year
 
  -- With inputs from Abhimanyu.Mathur@timesgroup.com
 
  
 
