GURUGRAM:   plans to open the Hero Honda Chowk underpass, which will decongest the junction by creating a passage for commuters travelling between sectors 10A and 37, by the end of March. 

 The Hero Honda Chowk project, including the underpass, a flyover and service roads, was conceptualised in 2007, and May 2017 was set as the project  . The work on the project started in November 2014. The flyover at the junction was opened to the public in July 2017. However, due to delays and litigations in acquiring the land for the underpass, it has not been completed yet. 
 
 According to the authority engineer of the project, Indian Technocrat Limited (ITL), the underpass is likely to be completed by mid-March. “The underpass in 96% ready. We are hopeful that it will be completed by mid-March. The underpass got delayed due to three major hurdles: the Sugandha restaurant, which was coming in the way of construction of the service roads; two high-tension towers of 22KV and 66KV; and an Indian Oil petrol pump. All three hurdles have been removed and we have acquired the land,” said Ravinder Singh Yadav, team leader, ITL.
 
 According to Yadav, the main hurdle was the Sugandha restaurant, which was demolished to make way for the underpass. He said, “The acquisition of nearly 900 metres of land on which the restaurant stood was crucial for the completion of the 1.4km-long underpass. NHAI got that land only eight months ago. The underpass construction had to be stalled for more than six months in 2017 as the restaurant was coming in its way. In July 2017, the Punjab and Haryana high court passed a judgment in the favour of NHAI.” 
 
 On the status of the project, Yadav said, “Now, we are making the service roads. Considering this is a low-lying and flood-prone area, we are constructing cement concrete roads (CCR) at an additional cost of Rs13.5 crore.” 
 
 The underpass will ease   movement to sectors 33-34, 9, 9A, 10 and 10A, and Sector 37 industrial area. Heavy rains in July 2016 had triggered a massive traffic jam at the Hero Honda crossing — one of the busiest on the expressway. Termed ‘Gurujam’, the situation had propelled the authorities to expedite the underpass project. 
 
 NHAI project director Ashok Sharma confirmed, “The underpass will be opened to the public on March 31.” TOI has learnt that the engineers of the project are currently deciding on the colour to be used to paint the underpass. 
 
