VADODARA/ ANAND: A native of Haryana’s Rohtak city,  , has bagged the highest salary package of nearly Rs 47 lakh as the placement season wound up at country’s premier rural management institute – the Institute of Rural Management, Anand (IRMA). 

 The 26-year-old, whose father R P Dua, is a retired government employee, has been picked up by Singapore-headquartered   – the Indian multinational having huge agri-business operations in  . “IRMA is not about packages or positions. It is more about people who consciously choose to work at the grassroot levels for the neglected sectors which really require professional assistance,” said Dua, a B Tech from YMCA, Faridabad, quit his job to begin his own start-up for a year before joining IRMA. The institute once again registered 100% placements for its graduating batch of post graduate programme in rural management (PRM) for a record 37th year in a row.
 
 And there are more records that the graduating batch has registered. While the placements ended in record three days, the number of recruiters, the number of jobs offered by them and the salary packages offered also jumped. 
 
 “There is a tremendous jump in the number of recruiters who had evinced interest in placements this year. Last year, we had 92 organizations in the placement drive and offered 220 job offers to 180 graduates. This year, we had 114 organizations offering 315 job offers,” said professor Pratik Modi, IRMA’s placement coordinator. “This is mainly because corporate sector is focusing more on the rural sector where IRMAns have an edge over the rest,” he said. 
 
 The average salary offered by the private sector this year touched Rs 12.17 lakh per annum against last year’s Rs 10.57 lakh per annum. Also, there is a substantial jump in the median salary from the development sector including NGOs, cooperatives and government development agencies. “This year, the average salary stands at Rs 9.42 lakh per annum as against 9.37 lakh last year. The combined average salary for the current batch is Rs 11.39 lakh per annum against Rs 10.22 lakh last year while the median is Rs 10 lakh per annum against Rs. 8.40 lakh last year,” said Modi. 
 
 This year, 18 students had already received pre-placement offers while like the last placement season, GCMMF — country’s largest co-operative federation — emerged as the single largest recruiter inducting 16 candidates. 
 
 “This time, apart from Tolaram, we had multinational agribusiness corporations like Afriventures, Kancor, ADM, Godrej Agro, Cargill, ITC, Zuari, Mars International among others. The biggest job offers came from banks, finance and insurance companies,” said Modi. 
 
 A total of 16 students took up offers made by government and non-government development organizations including the BAIF Development Research Foundation, Bihar Rural Livelihoods Promotion Society, JEEVIKA, Kudumbashree, and Livolink Foundation, an associate organization of the Tata Trust among others. 
 
 
