KOLKATA: Kolkata traffic police has locked horns with the railways over the construction of a height barrier near the Kolkata station from the RG Kar Hospital side. The police said that the “unilateral” move was made by the railways last Saturday and it was only due to “the cops’ quick intervention” that the construction of the barrier was put on hold.

 “Our office found that the railways was constructing a height barrier on Saturday. We immediately intervened and stopped it. The purpose of the height barrier, they claimed, was to stop buses from entering the station. This would have been detrimental to the passengers as there are few taxis available directly from the station. There is just one auto route that will be insufficient for the passengers if buses are not allowed,” said an IPS officer at Lalbazar.
 
 DC (traffic)   said they would be writing to the railways explaining to them the present situation. “The buses were initially given permission to go up to Kolkata station by the railways. The routes connecting as far as   and   were decided by the transport department after consulting the railways who felt this would help attract more passengers. We need to know the reason for such a decision and seek their cooperation to try and reverse the decision if possible,” said Kumar.
 
 Eastern Railway officials, however, maintained that buses were never supposed to enter the Kolkata station. “We never granted permission to any bus to enter the station premises. Passengers are supposed to get down at the bus stop outside and then enter the station,” Basudev Panda, divisional railway manager,  , said. Another official said a number of long-distance and ‘luxury’ buses were using the station premises as a parking lot, hence the decision to put up a height barrier.
 
 Police said that since there are plans that railways might shift several important trains to this terminal from Sealdah, they had themselves made plans to ensure smooth movement of vehicles to Kolkata station.
 
