SHIMLA: Caught among bureaucrats who are either loyal to previous chief ministers   and   or are divided into factions, chief minister   has started the process to identify officials who really want to work for the welfare of people and development of the state. Once such officers are identified, a major administrative reshuffle will be done after the budget, wherein performing officers will be given key responsibilities while non-performing ones will be sidelined.

 Sources said Jai Ram is not happy with the way some officials are taking the developmental agenda of the state government lightly. It is being alleged that in the last five years of the Congress rule bureaucrats ran the government and now again in the new set up they want to have their way.
 
 According to sources, two top officials had sent files to the chief minister’s office without taking the legislators into confidence. On noticing this, Jai Ram asked the officials not to do such things and returned the files. He also asked them to ensure the involvement of MLAs in decision making. Worried with the fact that past loyalties and factionalism prevailing among the bureaucracy could derail the developmental agenda of state government, the CM has started the process to build his own team. For this, the process of identifying the performing officers has been started.
 
 Highly placed sources in the government told TOI that streamlining the divided bureaucracy has become a challenge for the CM as taking desired performance from them has become a cause of concern. To remove bureaucratic hurdles a new team is being prepared that will almost be ready after the budget session, they said.
 
 In  , bureaucracy in the state has remained divided among the loyalists of former chief ministers Virbhadra and Dhumal. Sources said Jai Ram is minutely evaluating the performance of officers in the government and based on this he is going to assign them responsibilities after the budget session. Sources said people have pinned high expectations from the new government led by Thakur and latter wants to live up to that expectation. They further said ministers have been asked to ensure the periodic review of their departments and to set short targets to achieve better results. “Officials have also been asked to come prepared with the presentation of their respective departments instead of coming with a copy and pen,” they said.
 
 Directions have also been issued to ensure the presence of field staff and to take strict action against those not discharging their duties sincerely.
 
 
