GURUGRAM: Residents of around 700 houses in   Phase 2 in   have complained about   supply for the last 15 days. 

 On Wednesday, at least four people complained of dehydration owing to the dirty water, which is suspected to be mixed with   water, after which residents submitted a protest memorandum addressed to MCG commissioner V Umashankar. 
 
 A group headed by former ward councillor Laxman Bagri and current councillor Sheetal Bagri went to meet MCG executive engineer Vikas Malik.
 
 TOI also received reports of the foul water supply from other areas in Sector 3A. “Is this water fit for consumption?” asked a resident, Regha Rastogi. “We’re unable to use this water. I had to take my son to a doctor after he complained of stomach ache and diarrhoea.”
 
 Laxman Bagri too confirmed he was informed of at least four cases where residents had complained of dehydration. “Initially, the water was totally brown. After a few days, it appeared to have become clearer but even then it was contaminated. The supply hours suddenly seem to have been reduced. We waited for so many days for the issue to be resolved. On Wednesday, it became too urgent, so we went directly to MCG executive engineer Vikas Malik and submitted our complaint,” Bagri said.
 
 “Over the last few days, contaminated water is flowing out of the taps,” the letter reads. “There has been a leakage somewhere in the pipeline and the water supplied to Laxman Vihar stinks. Children are getting ill by consuming this contaminated water. It can neither be used for drinking nor for any other purpose.”
 
 Residents have also reportedly warned MCG officials that they will launch a protest if the issue wasn’t resolved at the earliest. “MCG officials have assured the issue will be fixed as soon as possible.”
 
 TOI called up Vikas Malik of MCG, who confirmed that he had received the letter. “The problem is locally contained. Some residents have received water mixed with sewerage. Our men are at work to detect the leakage point. We’re trying to resolve the matter as soon as possible.” 
 
 
