GANDHINAGAR: In the ambitious river-linking projects — the Damanganga-Pinjal and Par-Tapi-Narmada projects — the   and Maharashtra governments have failed to reach an agreement on sharing water. The Union ministry of water resources tried to intervene on Friday, at a meeting attended by the secretary of water resources, Gujarat chief secretary   and his Maharashtra counterpart, in New Delhi.

 The Gujarat government conditionally agreed to share Narmada waters with Maharashtra, provided Maharashtra reciprocates for rivers flowing from Maharashtra to Gujarat. However, Maharashtra is unwilling to accept the conditions of the Gujarat government. Gujarat has mandated that Maharashtra first agree to sharing more Tapi water, whose source is in the Sahyadris in Vidarbha. Only then will Gujarat sign on the dotted line to provide more water from the Damanganga-Pinjal link to quench Mumbai’s thirst.
 
 Nitin Patel, deputy CM and goverment spokesperson said, “On Friday we had talks with Maharashtra and government of India for river linking projects between two states. We expect CM level talks soon for further pursuing the project.”
 
 J N Singh, chief secretary, Gujarat, who attended the tripartite meeting said, “We presented our perspective and Maharashtra their. GOI is leading the project. Major finance will be from Union government only. We expect further rounds of talk at CM level. Total project will be around Rs 10,000 crore.”
 
 The Damanganga-Pinjal link envisages transfer of surplus water from the Damanganga basin at the proposed Bhugad and Khargihill dam sites to the Pinjal reservoir, to augment the water supply of Greater Mumbai. All three reservoirs will be connected through tunnels. The Pinjal dam is across the Pinjal in the   basin, which supplies water to Mumbai.
 
 The Par-Tapi-Narmada link will mainly benefit Gujarat, while the Damanganga-Pinjal link will help Maharashtra. The former envisages the transfer of surplus water from the west-flowing rivers north of the Damanganga to the Tapi in Gujarat. The scheme, though mainly located in southern Gujarat, will cover some areas north of Mumbai on the Western Ghats in Maharashtra.
 
 A tripartite memorandum of understanding (MoU) for linking the Damanganga-Pinjal and Par-Tapi-Narmada rivers and a water sharing agreement had been signed in 2010, in the presence of then PM Dr   when   was Gujarat CM and Ashok Chavan was Maharashtra CM.
 
 Though the implications of sharing water with Maharashtra are not yet in the public domain here, in Maharashtra it is a key political issue and opposition parties have disrupted the assembly to protest over it.
 
 
