From being a shooting location to inspiring plots of films like Lucknow Central, Delhi’s   is no stranger to Bollywood. Now, its filmi connect is set to become stronger as several inmates of the jail have been roped in to design costumes for a movie. Under the supervision of fashion designer Winky Singh, the inmates will be designing costumes for an upcoming movie, titled Marksheet. 

 
 Tihar jail officials say that this is the first time in the history of Indian cinema that jail inmates are designing costumes for a film. The film, directed by Harish Vyas and starring Delhi-based actor  , was initiated in 2012, but was soon shelved. The decision to offer the inmates the film deal came after Imran attended a fashion show last year that showcased designs by Tihar inmates.
 
 
  
  
 Last September, Tihar’s female inmates presented their debut khadi collection at a fashion show
 
 
 
 
 Imran says that they decided to go ahead with the film last year, and when he was invited to a fashion show put together by Tihar women inmates then he decided to include them in his project.
 
 Imran says, “I loved the designs so much that I decided to do something for them and what would be better than offering them a movie? What followed was a long series of conversations with the DG of Tihar and other senior officials. They were quite supportive, and then we decided to announce it.”
 
 Winky Singh, who also attended the fashion show, tells us, “I was at the fashion show and as the inmates walked the ramp, I couldn’t help wonder if it’s the work from the inside of a jail or from a fashion designer’s workshop. They were wearing those gorgeous costumes, which were flowy, with quite stylish cuts. I immediately thought that these skills need to be nurtured.”
 
 
  
  
  (Imran Zahid with his co-star Kulnoor Brar)
 
 
 
 The business of designing clothes for films is very different from fashion. How are they dealing with it? Winky says, “I have designed clothes for actors like Priyanka Chopra, Ali Fazal, Neha Dhupia, but somehow never designed costumes for a film. This is my first chance too to design costumes for a film. There are those puzzles of where we will be working, what would be our time of visits and even as karigars work in our workshop, in this case I’ll be visiting the inmates almost twice or thrice a week to understand the project. Also, we will ensure that the inmates are not bogged down with the pressure of designing costumes for movies. When those inmates got to know that they have to design costumes for a movie, they told me it was a dream come true. One of the inmates told me that she always wanted a celebrity to wear clothes designed by her, but never thought it would be possible.”
 
 
 
 On Tuesday, Winky Singh and the cast and crew of Marksheet met the inmates in Jail-6 at the fashion lab to discuss about the costumes. They will have regular meetings with the inmates for the next few days. She says, “We will be discussing scripts and requirement of costumes with the inmates, following which the fabric and procurements will be finalised. The film is supposed to go on the floors somewhere around June, so we have two months to train the inmates and do it together. I have seen their work and I think their professionalism is unquestionable. I will be taking my best-experienced karigars with me to Tihar jail to train them.”
 
 She adds, “I have also spoken to Tihar officials to get these women designers involved in my Punjab-based Phulkari project. So, like them, it’s a beginning for me too.”
 
 Ajay Kashyap, DG (Prisons), says, “It’s a unique opportunity for Tihar inmates. We rehabilitate and re-integrate inmates in the society after they complete their jail term. And all these activities are under that objective to enhance their skills and give them the means to support themselves once they are released. We have 18 such projects in Tihar including designing and tailoring. It is to provide skills, and a project like working for a film will add to their capabilities. Some of the operational details have been worked out. The designer and their team will be visiting Tihar for it.”
 
 By: Niharika Lal
 
