MUMBAI:   sported a turban for this interview and was as forthcoming as one would have expected him to be. He claimed to have been best treated by his new franchise, KXIP. 

 
 
 
 In a chat with Mumbai Mirror, he took a range of questions, including on his career, danger of being not picked in the IPL auction, controversies and having a pole dance facility in his house. And above all, he also explained how   saved IPL by picking him in the auction. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Two best teams were playing, so it had to be good. SunRisers have got into the final with their bowling attack and one would have expected them to defend that sort of total (178). But they were hit by Shane Watson, he played a magnificent innings.
 
 That is what you call a big match player, it was a big match. Chennai were in this position before and they came out on top. I don’t think anyone should complain, it was a batting team versus a bowling team. One innings took the game away from SunRisers. Chennai was Chennai.
 
 
 
 Without a doubt! It was superb to be part of the IPL once more. It is the best tournament in the world. I played for a new franchise, the reception there was fantastic. We had a good start but we lost the momentum in the final stages. Hopefully, next year.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 It was not a joke, I am serious. You have said IPL needs stars and you have answered the question. I have done so much for the IPL. You look back and see what I have done for the IPL. I had two centuries and won a trophy, still active and playing. You can still see what I have to offer to the game. I love to continue playing in India. This is where a lot of passion lies. There is some fuel in the tank.
 
 
 
 
 No, no, no. I was not surprised. Whether it was the first or last minute (being picked) does not matter. But I don’t have too many expectations in life. You have to prepare yourself for disappointments. I have seen these things happen in the IPL. I was not actually following the auction. It was early morning for me back home in the Caribbean.
 
 Y
 
 
 I have no idea. Maybe it is because of my age. How old is Watson? He has scored two centuries. I am 39 and still scoring hundreds.
 
 
 
 
 As you know, they used to call me World Boss.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The world, man! The World’s Boss, the most dominant boss in cricket -- to be able to do so much within cricket and outside cricket. You have to stand up and fight for your rights. Most players don’t do such things.
 
 I have opened the doors for the cricketers to believe in life and enjoy the life while playing cricket. I can still dominate the game. I have done that within the world. I need a new task, so I take the space to the Universe. And then eventually, I start to fight with the aliens up there now. I have to fight bowlers in Jupiter, Mars and in all these places now. So, I am the Universe Boss, always.
 
 
 
 
 There was no secret. He was bowling to the best player in the world. I have played against him quite a few times. He is the top T20 spinner right now. I have to give him credit for that. His passion for the game is fantastic. He will always inspire more spinners within the game and T20 cricket is also about spinners. Spinners will dominate T20s.
 
 
 
 
 The World Cup is coming next year. We had to qualify for the World Cup. We will see what happens after that (the World Cup).
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 No, no. I am the quickest person between the wickets, what are you talking about?
 
 
 
 
 Only because it would not be on. If it is on, I will take even four.
 
 
 
 It’s a clothing and fashion brand and I am a brand ambassador of that. I don’t have attitude man, I am passionate.
 
 
 
 (Laughs). I am a good man, I am a great man, unless you write something controversial and bad about me.
 
 Life is good, man, I can’t complain. None (controversies) actually came my way in the last few years. I’ve sued them all.
 
 
 
 
 Like I said, I have sued all of them and I won’t say anything.
 
 
 
 
 I don’t remember all that.
 
 
 
 
 It’s very important for women to do men’s work as well. There are some great women cricketers as well. We need to highlight them. I don’t know about the women journalists.
 
 
 
 
 Who’s Ian Chappell?
 
 
 
 
 The bowlers are worried, not Chris Gayle. My back is broad you know. I’m strong.
 
 
 
 
 The youngsters are coming up. We’re in a rebuilding process. It is going to take a while, it is not going to be over overnight. We’ve lost a lot of experienced players but life goes on. No player is going to play forever. At some stage, everybody has to depart the game. I will continue to wish West Indies cricket all the best.
 
 
 
 
 I take life as it comes
 
 
 
 
 You come to my house and see for yourself. Let me know when you are coming to Jamaica. I will make arrangements for you. But yes, there is one in the basement.
 
 
