KOCHI: A   probe has been sought into the circumstances behind the acquittal of minister   in the sexual harassment case involving a ‘journalist’ with the   news channel. S V  , a senior news editor at the channel, filed the plea before the high court in this regard.

 
 “The petitioner has no iota of doubt that he presented a news item which was said to be cent percent genuine by the 8th accused (woman journalist). Now, it became fake news only because 7th respondent (Saseendran) and the 8th respondent colluded together and settled the case, though many evidences were found against the 7th respondent. Now, there arises a lot of questions/doubts regarding the infamous ‘sleaze tape’ case which is to be investigated by an independent agency and real facts to be brought out before the public,” the petition stated.
 
 No proper investigation is being conducted by   wing of state police due to the political power of Saseendran, it is alleged. Continuation of the investigation by CBCID or any other agency under the state government will not fetch any result, the petitioner contends while demanding a CBI probe.
 
 Saseendran obtained an affidavit from the woman ‘journalist’ discharging him from the allegations of sexual harassment and used it to secure an acquittal from Thiruvananthapuram chief judicial magistrate court, the petitioner has alleged.
 
 The case against Saseendran was filed on the basis of a private complaint filed by the ‘journalist’ on April 5, 2017. This followed Mangalam channel’s airing of sleaze audio tape of a phone conversation allegedly made between the minister and the ‘journalist’.
 
 It was alleged in the complaint that the ‘journalist’ approached the minister in November 2016 at his residence to obtain an interview for the channel. She had alleged that the minister made sexually explicit comments, placed his hands on her shoulders, showed his private parts and asked her to go upstairs. On the basis of the complaint, a case was registered for sexual harassment (Section 354A of Indian Penal Code), stalking (Section 354D), and insulting modesty of woman (Section 509).
 
