NEW DELHI: Only a week ago, they whole-heartedly supported the nationwide protests against "dilution" of the SC/ST atrocities law. Now, they are vowing to celebrate   like never before. And the two politicians are not Dalits. GenNext OBC leaders   and   are in lockstep on backing the fresh cycle of Dalit assertion, a move that carries the potential to tear down the last wall of socio-political resistance to assertive Dalit politics. The Yadavs of the Hindi heartland are only the most conspicuous symbols of the Mandal class seeking to throw the net wide to construct a more diverse tent. 

 For many, it carries the seeds of an emerging new trend. After all, aggressive street protests by Dalits, even though rarely heard before, has been anathema for politically entrenched Mandal blocs.' Even the centrist Congress has time and again shown its discomfort with Ambedkarite radicalism, worried it would disturb its carefully crafted rainbow alliance which includes upper castes.
 
 BJP appeared to betray similar concerns when only its Scheduled Caste legislators and office-bearers spoke against the Supreme Court order "diluting" the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. OBCs and Dalits have traversed an uneasy journey, joining hands and splitting apart with changing circumstances. According to observers, OBCs, not upper castes, emerged as the bulwark against Dalit aggression in recent years. 
 
 It could be that their political aspirations in the north were unleashed in the Mandal era, pitting them as competitors. The rush for targeted development schemes for SCs and SC-dominated villages, especially land redistribution, riled the backwards, who saw their position threatened just when they had dislodged the upper castes from the top perch.
 
 Their anger over these myriad reasons crystallised in hostility to the SC/ST Act, a lightning rod of sorts. So much so, it was   that single-handedly protested and blocked the constitutional amendment in Parliament to facilitate "reservation in promotion" for Dalits during UPA-2.
 
 Now, if the new-found tolerance, rather support, for Dalit agenda is counter-intuitive, it primarily stems from the existential threat that Hindutva forces pose to OBC and Dalit groups. Both the blocs are vulnerable to co-option by the large umbrella of religious mobilisation. 
 
 At the same time, weakening of Dalit component in politics has blunted the polarising potential of issues like the SC/ST Act. It was in a similar situation that OBCs and Dalits came together in the 1990s, during the post-Ayodhya saffron surge. BJP's defeat in Gorakhpur and Phulpur by-elections in UP has raised hopes that "grand bahujan" can only stay afloat together in the Hindutva storm.
 
 However, counter forces seemingly at work have not escaped the attention of observers. The reprisals to Bharat bandh involving backward individuals have led to theories if it could lead to a "Dalit vs OBC" faceoff.
 
 However, OBC outfits deny such a possibility, arguing that backward leaderships would make a radical Dalit outreach only after sensing the pulse on the ground in favour of a social alliance. "It is never, and cannot, be imposed from the top," an RJD MP said. The Mandalite indulgence of a sharp-edged revolt from erstwhile "untouchables" is intriguing to many. 
 
 After all, Dalits, as a political party, exist only in Uttar Pradesh, but the leaderless, Whatsapp-social media mobilisation — as seen on April 2 — virtually creates an independent community flag in every state. Politics is definitely in for a new trend.
 
