NAGPUR: The Indian camp received a severe blow when second seed Kidambi Srikanth and eighth seed HS Prannoy withdrew at the last moment from the   World Tour Super 500   tournament which begins in Jakarta on Tuesday.

 
 In the absence of Srikanth and Prannoy, the men’s singles section wears a depleted look with other top Indian shuttlers also deciding to skip the year’s first major tournament. Experienced   and young   will have to play out of their skins to make a mark in the tough field.
 
 However, both PV Sindhu and   are determined to start the new year with a bang. Defending champion Sindhu will lock horns with Hanna Ramadini of Indonesia in the first round. World No.3 Sindhu will be facing world No. 33 Indonesian for the first time on the circuit. After a spectacular 2017, second seed Sindhu must be hoping to continue her sparkling form.
 
 World No.10 Saina meets China’s Chen Yufei. The seventh seed has been in good form lately and has a psychological advantage too. World No. 8 Chen had outlasted Saina in their only previous meeting a couple of months ago at the Hong Kong Open in three games.
 
 Kashyap, promoted to the main draw after withdrawals, will take on his nemesis Wei Feng Chong of Malaysia in the first round. The former India No.1 has lost all his four previous matches to the world No.46 Malaysian.
 
 Sameer Verma, world No. 30, will meet in-form world No. 21 Kazumasa Sakai of Japan. The head-to-head record between the two is 1-1.
 
 In men’s doubles, Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty will clash with the eighth-seeded Japanese pair of Takuto Inque and Yuki Kaneko.
 
 Rio Olympians and reigning national champions Manu Attri and Sumeeth Reddy take on Chinese Taipei’s Lu Ching Yao and Yang Po Han.
 
 In the qualifiers to be played on Tuesday, Subhankar Dey, who impressed everyone with superlative performance in the PBL early this month, will take on local boy Panji Ahmad Maulana. The other qualifier, Abhishek Yelegar faces another Indonesian Vega Vio Nirwanda.
 
