Ghaziabad: Three persons were booked after anti-encroachment teams and protesters clashed in Vasundhara on Friday. Teams from the   Board, GMC and   were heckled by protesters while undertaking anti-encroachment drives in their respective areas.

 The UP Housing board teams were assaulted in Vasundhara by the alleged henchmen of a builder leading to the FIR being filed at Indirapuram police station.
 
 Rajeev Kumar, executive engineer of UP Housing Board, said, “We carried out anti-encroachment drives in sectors 5, 4C and 2B of Vasundhara in which a number of shops and housing units were sealed. However, in Sector 5, the situation got out of control when some people manhandled and misbehaved with the officials while they were sealing the flats. We then lodged a complaint.” 
 
 Sushil Kumar Diwedi, SHO of Indirapuram police station, said, “An FIR against three persons, Raj Dhasman, Raju and Manish, was registered based on the complaint by UP Housing board under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the IPC.”
 
 Similarly, GMC officials, too, were attacked by protesters during an anti-encroachment drive in Vaishali Sector 3. “When the GMC team went to Amulya housing society they faced stiff opposition from residents,” said C P Singh, municipal commissioner, adding, “Some women obstructed the work and manhandled officials while they were trying to demolish an illegal structure, forcing us to summon female cops. We could only carry out the drive after they had been restrained.”
 
 The GDA, too, razed three banquet halls that were built in green belt areas in Indirpauram’s Kanawni area. “The halls that were demolished included 7 Heaven, Amarpali Grand and Ocean Blue,” said Dayanand Prasad, OSD, GDA. “The area where these banquet halls were operational comes under the green belt as per our master plan. The demolition was conducted because of this and the drive went on despite feeble protests,” he added. 
 
 As per rule, the green belt stretches cannot be used for commercial purpose even though ownership right wrests with private parties. The GDA, which has razed at least six banquets halls recently, plans to act against three more on the CISF road very soon, said Prasad.
 
 
