PUNE: Even a few years ago, there was hardly any chance of sinking your teeth into a dum murg jungbari or slurp on sancha ice cream unless you could wangle an invitation to a Bohri friend’s place. With the Bohris being a closeknit group, their culinary delights did not reach far and wide, until recently.

 
 This year, many restaurants in the city have lined up an array of   throughout  . Though Bohri cuisine offers a wide gamut of choices, the pièce de résistance is the Bori   which has Puneites hooked and hungry for more.
 
 “Earlier, people had not idea from where they could get Bohri food. Now, the scenario has changed and a large section of non-Bohra people order Bohri Thal. We started Degchi’s cafe about a year ago and the response has been phenomenal,” said Ali Engineer, owner of Degchi’s, a speciality Bohri restaurant, in the city.
 
 According to Engineer, Bohri Thal, which is eaten together in groups of 8, comes in a specific format with sweet and savoury items being served first followed by another round of sweet and savoury items. “Only after this, do we serve the main course. While a Thal is meant for 8 people, we serve it for 3 to 4 people too. About 8 months back, we dished out a mini Thal, that is sufficient for 1-2 persons,” Engineer said.
 
 A city-based home cook,  , who has hosted 14 Bohri Thals at her residence, said that Bohri food has become extremely popular in the city. “The food is served in a particular format, and people sit on the ground and eat from a big plate. We start and end a meal with a pinch of salt as it clears the palate and is known to fight 72 types of disease,” Yusuf explained.
 
 “Before our patrons sit down for a meal, we inform them about Bohri culture and food. We request them to wash their hands with a  , just like we do after our meals. For the festival of Ramzan, I am hosting a special Iftaar Bohri Thal on June 2,” she said.
 
 Another restaurant,  , has started offering a Bohri Thal as a special menu all through Ramzan. “We are offering Thal’s which can be had by four people. There has been such a massive response that we had to limit it to only weekdays,” explained Chaitanya Adgaonkar, owner of Dalchini.
 
 “We try to serve food from all over the country that doesn’t reach people easily. We celebrate festivals like Onam, the month of Ramzan and others by offering related cuisine. Bohri food has a different style of cooking .. We learnt the recipes from a friend’s mother,” he added.
 
