New Delhi: Three of four pedestrians killed in road accidents in the capital die while crossing a road or waiting for a bus on the roadside. 

 According to an   by the   of   conducted last year, the city has   than  , leading to speeding   hitting pedestrians crossing a road. 
 
 The study also found that 40% of Delhi roads do not have sidewalks for pedestrians, forcing them to walk on the road. About 95% of the accidents are caused due to encroachments and poorly maintained stretches. The study found 60% of road accident victims to be in the age group of 20-40. Of this, 42% come from the lower economic strata. 
 
 Also, 62% of the total vehicles are two-wheelers that are involved in 36% of fatal accidents. Two-wheeler tracks in accident-prone areas could solve the problem, police think. 
 
 Police found 127 FOBs and subways, most of which were located away from the actual place of need or fitted with stairs instead of escalators. People don’t prefer taking stairs, they added. 
 
 Police recommend providing FOBs and underpasses at ideal locations to curb this trend. 
 
 “Roads like Ring Road, Outer Ring Road, GTK Road, Grand Trunk Road, Rohtak Road, NH-24, Mathura Road and NH-8 carry almost 70% of the vehicular traffic and are most prone to accidents. The solution to reducing the accidents could be segregation of road users in lanes,” said an officer, quoting the study. 
 
 Another cause of accidents is the increase in static traffic, which leads drivers to turn impatient and speed. The police study found that 75% of the city traffic remains static at every intersection while only 25% is allowed to move. Thus, whenever a signal turns green, drivers have the tendency to dart out to cross the stop-line quickly leading to accidents, a police officer said.
 
 The study also identified 108 accident-prone zones in 2016-17 of which 65 were found to be at intersections. Police also found that most accidents happen at multilevel intersections.
 
 It was also found that 77% of the accidents were caused due to the driver’s fault. Police suggest linking the Aadhaar card of a driver with the driving licence. The report suggests that a policy needs to be formulated to send the conviction reports from the courts directly to the transport authority concerned to update the driving licence record. 
 
 Police suggest construction works along roads should be allowed only within a strict timeline. The report also suggests repairing worn out speed breakers and mastic strips. Different speed zones for different types of vehicles are also suggested. 
 
 
