MUMBAI: The supervisor of a slum survey team has been arrested for extorting from residents of an encroachment at  . The survey was on the eligibility for free housing under the state's  . 

  Nehru Nagar is a slum settlement on Juhu airport and spread over 30 acres of the airport's 385-acre sprawl. The slum survey team is part of MahaOnline, a private agency appointed by the   (SRA) to carry out a biometric survey at slums across Mumbai. 
 
  Survey supervisor  , prime accused in the extortion racket, is now out on bail. "More arrests are likely," said senior PI Sunil Ghosalkar of Juhu police station. 
 
  The issue is snowballing into a major controversy with former Congress MP Gurudas Kamat alleging that there is no plan to carry out in-situ rehabilitation of slum-dwellers on airport land given restrictions around Juhu airport. 
 
 He has demanded that the government reveal how it plans in-situ rehabilitation as promised by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis in the run-up to the 2017 civic elections.
 
 On February 2, during a door-to-door survey of tenements at Nehru Nagar, one of its residents, Jagdish Jangam (33), took a picture on his mobile phone of Rs 5,000 he had with him. When the survey team reached his home, he gave the money to Padmashali and told him to collect the balance Rs 30,000 he demanded from his mother. Once Padmashali pocketed the money, Jagdish's friends surrounded the survey team and dragged them to the Juhu police station.
 
 They complained to the police that the team had been demanding and collecting Rs 35,000 from each tenement's dwellers, threatening that otherwise their homes would remain unmarked, making them ineligible for free housing. As proof, they told the Juhu police to search Padmashali for Rs 5,000. Finding it, and supported by Jangam's picture of one of the notes, the police filed an FIR, naming four persons. Two others are Ankush Hegde and Yogesh More. The fourth person's name wasn't mentioned, but his mobile number was.
 
 When TOI visited the slum that abuts the Juhu runway, there was fear in the area and people refused to reveal their names and speak on record. "In all, nine residents came forward and testified against the survey team's extortion. For a price, slum residents were told, their tenements would be shown as two units so that they could claim two free houses," said Mumbai Mahila Congress vice-president Bhavna Jain.
 
 Former MP Kamat has been demanding that the government make public its plans for the rehabilitation of slum-dwellers. "To rehabilitate slum-dwellers in-situ would require building towers, which is simply not possible and given the height restriction around the airport," he said. "Residents are being coerced to give consent to rehabilitation without being informed where they will be rehabilitated."
 
 The Slum Rehabilitation Authority started the survey of tenements on Juhu airport's land in January. The survey is at the behest of the civil aviation ministry, said Swati Karle, deputy collector (encroachments) overseeing the survey. Her office, part of the SRA, has washed its hands off the incident. Karle said her office's job ends with issuing notices informing residents of surveys and marking eligible tenements. Her team has so far numbered 3,500 tenements.
 
 "No official from the deputy collector's office was present the day the incident is reported to have occurred. Those involved in the incident are private persons. MahaOnline has been appointed by the SRA," said Karle. "The two teams have been working in the slums simultaneously, but not together. A report has been sought about the incident from MahaOnline."
 
 Following the incident, Karle said she demanded the team be removed and a new one appointed. For a week the survey was stopped. It resumed on Friday with a new team.
 
 When TOI asked Deepak Kapoor, chief executive officer, SRA, if the survey will be cancelled in light of the incident and an inquiry conducted, he said, "I have told our survey in-charge to submit a factual report by next Monday. Let the report be submitted."
 
 
