NEW DELHI: A new study on more than 2000 compensatory   plantations across the country found that in 70% of the projects plantations have been taken up on notified forest land but termed as "degraded" in official records. Case studies documented by authors of the study reveal in many cases plantations have been raised in dense native forests defeating the very purpose of afforestation. 

 In about 53 of the 63 case studies taken up by Community Forest Rights- Learning and Advocacy (CFR-LA)—a coalition of researchers working on forest rights, no consent was taken from gram sabhas for plantation. 
 
 The authors used secondary data downloaded from e-greenwatch website (environment ministry website on plantations) for 2479 compensatory afforestation projects in 10 states. The plantations were taken up at a cost of Rs 195 crores during 2007-2017. No data was available for the performance and survival of the trees planted during this period on the e-greenwatch website. But the data analysis shows 70% of the compensatory afforestation has actually been taken up on forest lands rather than non- forest lands. “This is in violation of the guidelines issued under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980. As per these guidelines, compensatory afforestation should be done on non-forest land in the same district where there is diversion of forest, or in areas closer to it. Only if non-forest land is not available should the plantation be sited on degraded forest land twice the area of diverted forest land,” the study highlights. 
 
  
  
 
 
 Every time forest land is diverted for non-forest purposes like mining or industry, the user agency is supposed to "afforest" an area of the same size of the forests that were diverted but in most cases the forest department is ending up afforesting existing forests. In fact consultations with forest dwellers while documenting 63 case studies in Maharashtra, Chhatisgarh, Jharkhand and Odisha revealed that many plantations were taken up in dense forest areas. For example, in Maharashtra, the plantations were carried out in   district’s Wadsa forest division, where about 1000 ha was taken over for plantations in 2015-17 in a region with 70-90% natural forest cover. Similarly, in Kandhamal, Odisha, plantations were taken up in dense forest areas.
 
 
  
  
 
 In 43 of 56 instances (information is not available for 7) community forest resource rights under forest rights act had been claimed but recognised only in 22 cases. “There is evidence to suggest that in several villages, FRA claims are kept pending or are out rightly rejected in anticipation of compensatory afforestation plantations. In Ganjadih and Arjuni ( ) the plantations were started soon after rights were claimed by forest dwellers on the same land.
 
 In 53 of 63 case studies no consent was taken from gram sabhas for plantation. “The forest department shows a strong preference for monoculture, commercial, exotic and invasive species that demand excessive resources and harm the surrounding biodiversity. Data from 2548 plantations clearly show about 60% of the plantations are of commercial species, with teak and eucalyptus together comprising more than 25% of trees planted,” the report adds.
 
 Researchers and activists working on forest rights on Friday submitted their objections and comments to union environment ministry on the draft compensatory afforestation rules 2018. They have referred to the findings of CFR-LA study extensively in their submission. One of the major objections according to them is that the draft rules are in violation of the forest rights act (2006).
 
 The submission highlights that schedule V of the constitution, Panchayats Act 1996 and the Forest Rights Act (FRA) 2006 provide for democratic governance of land and forest resources by forest dwelling communities who have used the forests for their sustenance. “FRA vests the right and authority to protect, regenerate, conserve and manage community forest resources in the gram sabha. Contrary to this, the draft CAF rules empower the forest bureaucracy with management and administration of compensatory afforestation funds,” they said in their submission. The Supreme Court in Orissa Mining Corporation Vs ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) also recognized that the FRA vests the right and authority to conserve forests in gram sabhas.
 
 Another major objection in the submission endorsed by 66 groups led by the All India Forum for Forest Movements (AIFFM) and Community Forest Rights- Learning and Advocacy (CFR-LA) is that the draft rules limit the rights of forest dwellers to select areas where FRA titles have been already recognised. But, “FRA applies to all forest lands where tribals and forest dwellers have traditional and customary rights. This includes land on which titles have been granted as well as forests over which claims are pending, or over which communities have pre-existing rights but have not initiated the claims process.”
 
 CFR-LA recently found gross violation of FRA in most of these plantations such as raising plantations on community forest land, common lands, pastures and grazing grounds among others. “In many instances access to these lands is prohibited or heavily restricted preventing the exercise of forest rights,” their submission states. It also refers to MoEFCC’s guidelines of November 2017 where they have permitted the creation of land banks out of degraded or revenue forests on which communities have already asserted rights. “The draft rules have no provision to ensure protection of legal rights of forest dwellers over customary forests,” the submission adds.
 
