Coimbatore:  , Edayarpalayam traffic signal has made the life difficult for the commuters and the local residents alike. While shopkeepers were forced to down their shutters due to dust problem, travelling on the stretch has become a nightmare for the commuters.

 Edayarpalayam traffic signal, where Thadagam Road meets Vadavalli Road, was dug up for laying water pipelines to Thondamuthur under the Combined Water Supply Scheme more than a month ago.
 
 When TOI visited the spot, a huge pit surrounded by heaps of mud was found at the signal, making commuting difficult. To add to the woes, traffic light posts, where were removed for the work, were dumped at a side. In the absence of traffic signal, heavy traffic snarls are a common sight at the peak hours, with several school and college buses plying on the road.
 
 Residents and shop owners said the work had been going on for around one-and-a-half months now. “The area sees heavy traffic from 8am-11am daily. There are days when vehicles are lined up for almost 1km stretch till Kovilmedu,” said P Padmanathan, an autorickshaw driver.
 
 R Gopal, another autorickshaw driver, said the traffic light posts at the junction were dismantled for work. “Rarely do we see a traffic cop to man the vehicular movement. When there are traffic snarls in the evenings, we come forward to regulate the traffic,” he said.
 
 Shopkeepers at the area said the bad state of the junction and the adjacent Vadavalli Road had forced them to close down their shops for the past one month. “When they dug up the road, the dust was unbearable. So i shut my shop,” said T Krishna Thirumani, who runs a grocery shop on Vadavalli Road near the junction. “The condition of the road is bad even now. Only one vehicle could pass at a time,” he said.
 
 When contacted, Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD) officials attributed the slow pace of work to the usage of 700mm diameter mild steel pipes for the project. “Welding these pipes is difficult as we have to align them every 5m,” said an official. He said they would close the pit by Friday night and then go for water testing.
 
 
