KOCHI: Every year, several thousands of lives are lost or maimed in road accidents in the state. A good many of them could be saved from morbidity or permanent disability if they were reached to hospitals or given proper trauma care in the first hour of the incident. 

 In an attempt to equip common people in life skills training, the Rotary club of West Kochi along with the Kochi city police and doctors from VPS Lakeshore Hospital has initiated a three-level basic lifesaving (BLS) skill programme for students and teachers of CBSE schools in the city.
 
 The project 'Samaritan' which began in this academic year has already covered 2500-odd students in level one in nearly 25 schools aims to target 40 schools by the end of this academic year. "A team of experts including doctors, paramedics and cops interact with students in their school campus. This includes power-point presentations and interactions. Then a group of 10 students from each of the schools are invited to Lakeshore hospital for a second level training with mannequins," said   Gopinath.
 
 He said, "We wanted to introduce it in government schools but an order by the state asking that nothing out of syllabus shall be taught there. So we decided to look at the private schools and the response has been very encouraging. We expect the kids who are trained to teach it to their fellow- students and also to the community."
 
 "Keralites are very helpful in reaching out to people in distress. Locals are often the first to reach the spot. However, the actual help to the victim often ends there. It's because a victim who has been injured in an accident is often picked up like a sac and transferred to a hospital. Often in the process, the victim would have suffered more injuries because the rough handling would have resulted in a fracture to the spine or neck etc. Hence, it has become important to train people in basic life-saving skills," said Dr  , neurologist at the hospital.
 
 He said the recent tragic incident, in which a five-year old child choked after a pill got stuck in her throat, could have been avoided had somebody known how to open the airways. "These kinds of skills come from very simple life-saving skills. Before reaching the hospital itself, her life could have been saved," he said.
 
 Ideally, this should be incorporated in school syllabus as it is important for every individual to know what to do in an emergency. The programme runs into a 3-4 hours and engages the kids to understand what is to be done during any kind of trauma - be it at home, school, neighbourhood or on the roads.
 
 "We are planning to send the kids who have done the second level training to the nearby government school provided we get their permission. What they learnt is already being taught to other students in our school," said Esther Agnes, Vidyodaya School, Thevakkal.
 
 The students learn about the necessity of BLS in the first level. Under the programme, the students are taught what to do if a person collapses in a lift, a person is found lying on the road, how to transport an injured person etc. After a hands-on training at the second level in the hospital, the kids get to interact with the city police in the third level. "The first is called Samaritan, next it is Good Samaritan and at the third level, they become royal  ," Ajith Kumar said.
 
 The students learn to be courageous to help anybody in need and that too correctly, he added.
 
 
