Nagpur: The Nagpur University on Tuesday launched a crackdown against its old nemesis Sunil Mishra by taking a host of decisions against him. It was on expected lined as reported by TOI in a series of investigative reports last week. NU will not only lodge a police complaint against him with Sitabuldi police station for producing bogus mark sheets, it will also bar his entry in all of its seven premises till further orders. TOI on March 9 had first reported how Mishra had managed to surrender his bogus mark sheets to the then Board of Examinations (BOE) and get a high court reprieve from his 12-and-half-year jail sentence. NU would also be writing a letter to Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis on inaction by Ganeshpeth police station officials against Mishra despite two complaints being lodged against him. While cancelling the affiliation to Mishra’s Central India Institute of Mass Communication (CIIMC), the university decided to issue show cause notices to local enquiry committee (LEC) members on how they had given a positive recommendation when it was working sans teachers, non-teaching staff and infrastructure. The LEC, headed by Sanjay Kanode with Madhuri Nasre and Sayali Pande as members, had given the green signal for granting affiliation for two years till 2019. After receiving a slew of complaints, NU had decided to freeze CIIMC’s admission for 2018-19 session last month. On Tuesday, VC SP Kane reiterated the decision while announcing that all its students would be accommodated in other colleges on NU’s responsibility.  “A retired judge panel would probe financial misappropriation by Mishra while another panel would investigate his move to surrender his travel and tourism diploma in same meeting of November 13, 2006,” VC SP Kane said.  NU would also be probing the role of ‘dummy candidate’ Pradip Motiram Rathod who wrote about surrendering his MA Sociology (first year) mark sheet citing that he want to pursue MA Political Science (second year). “He appeared in both examinations simultaneously while brazenly flouting rules and cleared both subjects. When NU withheld his results for this reason, he wrote for surrendering MA Sociology mark sheet. Shockingly, the then BOE members allowed his proposal, ignoring the fact that those were never handed over to him,” the VC said. He dropped a bombshell by disclosing that the then BOE led by ex-VC SN Pathan, pro-VC GS Parasher, and ex-registrar Subhash Belsare were apprised of the fact that allowing someone to surrender mark sheets was completely out of its purview, still they committed the “illegal act”.  “In police complaint, we would informing them on events taking place right from the first day and how then BOE members became a part the conspiracy by allowing Mishra and Rathod to surrender mark lists. Interestingly, the BOE had many self-proclaimed legal pundits at that time,” he said, while indirectly referring to Dr Vedprakash Mishra. The VC disclosed that it was Dr Mishra’s letter to NU on surrendering his diploma which was obtained through plagiarism that led to the expose of his misdeeds. “Dr Mishra also sent his diploma for surrendering before BOEE while citing BOE’s decision of November 13, 2006, which allowed similar acts of Mishra and Rathod. On suspicion, we launched an enquiry through Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director which led to these startling findings,” said Kane.