THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state home department is ready with a draft bill that would allow the preparation of a   that can be accessed by the public and the various enforcement agencies. The draft bill titled 'The Kerala Sex Offender Registration Bill, 2018', accessed by TOI, aims to prepare an electronic database which will collate and retain all the necessary information about sex offenders. 

 
 The access for the public, however, will be conditional with necessary penal clauses against misuse of the registry. There are also provisions in the draft bill to de-stigmatise the offenders who figure in the database by getting their names removed, and provisions to penalize those who discriminate and harass the offenders.
 
  
  
 
 As per the draft bill, a convicted sex offender will be obliged to get his name and details included in the database. The sexual offences will be classified as those which pose low danger to the community, moderate danger and serious danger. The details of offenders in the register will be updated once a year, once every six months and once every three months according to the classification. Also, the information provided will be retained in the registry for 15 years, 25 years and for life of the offender as per the classification.
 
 The bill also has provisions for the setting up of an Ombudsman, before whom the offender can appeal for deletion of his name from the database after a prescribed period. The Ombudsman's decision will be based on the offender's behaviour and conduct, participation in social welfare programmes and other correctional indicators. The Ombudsman's decision can also be appealed before a court of law. 
 
 Every police station will be duty-bound to maintain a register of names and details of sex offenders within their jurisdiction. There will also be a   in charge of overall maintenance of the registry in every district.
 
 The public can seek details of an offender under the RTI Act. The applicant will be required to give reasons for seeking the information and also give an undertaking that the information so obtained will not be disclosed to third parties through media or oral dissemination, and would not be used to victimise or harass the sexual offender.
 
 Information will only be disseminated by the adjudicating authority on the basis of locus and nexus of the applicant with the victim, threat of danger posed by offender on the applicant and the potential for misuse of the information. The fraudulent applicants or those violating the conditions, can be penalised with a maximum imprisonment of one year or a fine of Rs 1 lakh or both. Those who harass or discriminate the offender in terms of providing employment or residence may also face imprisonment of up to two years or penalty of Rs 3 lakh, or both.
 
 Additional chief secretary (home) Subrata Biswas has convened a discussion on the bill with various stakeholders like state police chief Loknath Behera, senior officials of law, social justice and prisons departments on Friday.
 
 
