NEW DELHI: A sprawling house set amid a complex of over a few acres in the middle of a wooded area in Karmatar village proved to be the hub of one of the most vicious cyber cons in India. Ram Kumar  , who was apprehended after his vishing network was busted by  , lived there in the palatial house in   district of Jharkhand, all built with the money that he appropriated from the gullible victims of his e-wallet swindle.

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Police say that Mandal, who also went by the alias of Hello Master, a dark testimony to his reputation, ran the largest network of fraudulent call centres from Karmatar. He employed a sizeable number of youngsters to make calls purporting to be from bank service centres and get people across the country to reveal their passwords and one-time-passwords on phone, which were immediately used to siphon off funds. Mandal’s success even inspired many local youths to follow his lead in setting up their own networks, turning the nondescript Jharkhand village into a notorious crime spot.
 
 Locals informed the cops that Mandal, the son of an agricultural labourer, had dropped out of school after completing Class 10 and initially worked alongside his father in the family field. He later went to Mumbai, where he worked in a cellphone shop in 2014. There he learnt how to pay bills through e-wallets, and he returned home to use this knowledge in a criminal manner.
 
 His associates in various states collected cash from customers to pay their utility bills. The payments, however, were made not with the money collected but through e-wallets with the funds Mandal’s network got from duping people into revealing their bank details.
 
 In evading police scrutiny in Jharkhand, Mandal took advantage of the information network operated by the Maoists, who alerted him of police presence in Karmatar. Sources said even the movement of the local police was reported to Mandal. The swindler also had his own pair, who kept a constant watch to alert him if any police vehicle approached his house. Whenever police conducted a raid in the area, Mandal quietly crossed the Bengal-Jharkhand border into the neighbouring state.
 
 The Delhi Police team that tracked him down thwarted this surveillance set-up by travelling first by bus and then on foot to reach the village, giving the spotters no clue to their intent.
 
 Mandal was arrested in 2016 and lodged in a jail for a few months. It was at this time that he learnt about the strategies the police adopted to trace cyber criminals and was, thus forearmed, was able to evade the cops from Delhi, Mumbai, Goa and Kolkata who had been pursuing him for two years Sources said police teams from various parts of India have raided Karmatar in the last couple of years. The local police have arrested more than 100 people in two years for similar tech crimes, a telling statement in a forested village of around two lakh people, most of whom are agriculturists.
 
