NEW DELHI: Mathematics is, by and large, the subject most dreaded by students, and getting past the   exam was a huge relief to many. But hours after the test on Wednesday came the news that they would have to sit again for the maths paper. Not only is the   maths re-test a source of stress for students and parents, but it has also messed up vacation plans.

 What made students all the more unhappy was the fact that the exam had proved relatively easy. “I am disheartened at having to prepare afresh and sit for the exam when it had gone really well as it was an easy paper,” said one student.
  
  
 Most parents too resented the re-test move. “Within hours of the examination, students who were relaxing, found themselves facing a   because of CBSE’s bloopers,” protested Sanjiv Kumar, a parent. Sudip Saral similarly said, “It is high time   got its act together to ensure these problems cease. It is unfair to ask students to sit for the exam for no fault of theirs.”
 
 Another parent, Karan Paul, decried the inability of the board to ensure that meritorious students received their just rewards. “It is depressing for a child who has slogged through the year to walk into the examination hall and find students who have not studied claiming they will get 90%. How has the education system degraded to such a level?”
 
 The re-examination is a spoke in the wheel for holiday planners. Advocate Khagesh Jha’s son was scheduled to go abroad, but has had to abruptly change his plans. Saral too had planned to go to   with his family once his daughter’s exam was over, but will have to re-schedule it after CBSE notifies a new date for the Class X maths and Class XII economics exams. 
 
 Teachers were disappointed that a year of hard work had come to naught. A maths teacher recalled, “Some of my students came out of the exam hall and told me they had got the question paper the night before but hadn’t paid attention because it was handwritten. It is so sad that children who haven’t studied will gain from this, not those who worked diligently throughout.”
 
 Some of the students alleged many other question papers had been similarly leaked. “Several times I saw students discussing the questions they had received on their phones,” claimed one.
 
 
