KOLKATA: City-based youth theatre group —   (MAD) — has landed in trouble after a girl, in her personal blog, accused her former partner — an actor-director of MAD — of being a serial offender who used his position of power to physically abuse young interns, including minors.

 The blog which accused the person of sending “sleazy texts”, “molestation”, “gaslighting” and “emotional abuse” of vulnerable youngsters soon went viral opening a can of worms as testimonials of other victims flooded the timelines. However, co-founder and present president of the group Soumendra Bhattacharya insisted that the group immediately took action as soon as the allegations came to the forefront. In a Facebook post, the group uploaded a copy of the suspension letter that was issued to the accused on March12.
 
 “In March, allegations of him being a serial offender was raised. When we confronted him, his explanations were not convincing. The girl mentioned another person who said she wasn’t comfortable with
 
 the kind of messages this man was sending. We saw those messages and they were sexual. This convinced us the allegations levelled were not baseless. Being in the entertainment circuit, it is important to conduct oneself in responsibly. We suspended him immediately. If anyone wants to take any legal action and wants MAD to cooperate, we will,” Bhattacharya told TOI.
 
 Unfortunately, Bhattacharya’s argument didn’t pacify many who insisted that MAD’s explanation was horsefeathers. Another ex-member of the group also accused another member who had allegedly got intimate with her without her consent. “The founder of the group had also told me that he was aware of this incident but assumed it was consensual without asking me about it. This obviously isn’t done. In this theatre group, women are slut-slammed while men are celebrated for being womanisers,” she alleged.
 
 Said US-based journalist, who was a year junior to the accused in  , “I knew him before MAD existed. There’s a lot that the accused did, including making a jab at me in a play when I didn’t reciprocate his feelings for me. Combine that with inappropriate touching while we were drinking with friends (he has done the same to other people I know). I refuse to believe that MAD did not know about this. I think they shielded him and are now saying they stand by the woman who wrote the post to maintain their image.”
 
 JU student Ekabali Ghosh, who shared a post about this controversy, claimed that she was aware of the “numerous stories” of the accused harassing women. “I have come across multiple testimonials of women he has harassed. This group has a time-tested pattern of hiring female interns and preying on them. They even go after girls who are below 18,” Ghosh alleged.
 
 Theatre activist Panchali Kar, who also levelled plagiarism charges against MAD, also isn’t convinced with the group’s arguments. According to Syamantakshobhan Basu, a JU research scholar, the sheer number of complaints point to a structural problem. “Whispers of pervasive sexual harassment are recurrent in the youth theatre circuit. The suspension letter does not answer the claims that the members knew of his behaviour previously and vaguely refers to private information which dilutes the apology. They should respond more sensitively.”
 
 However, director Kaushik Ganguly who knows at least one of accused very well, stood by him. “He is very courteous and well-groomed. I can’t believe the allegations and I stand by him. I want justice to prevail,” Ganguly said.
 
