PATNA: Police on Friday have identified the location of the person who was behind the leak of Physics question paper of intermediate examination conducted by Bihar School Examination Board on Thursday (February 8). According to the sources in investigation of paper leak, they have able to identify whose mobile phone was used for circulating the question paper.

 A source of the investigation told TOI on Friday that at this point of time, we can’t reveal the identity of the person. “The police force is trying to the nab the person who viral the question paper of Physics found on mobile phones of eight people who were detained by the police on Friday from various location in Motihari district. During the investigation, it was found that the paper was matched with the actual paper. At this point, we are not disclosing the name of the culprit as it may hamper the investigation,” said the source.
 
 On Thursday, East Champaran police detained eight persons, including three examinees, at Motihari following a tip-off that they were circulating Physics question paper before the beginning of the examination. The leak came two days after Class XII Biology question paper went viral on social media nearly two hours after the exam started in Nawada district on Tuesday (February 6).
 
 However, BSEB chairman Anand Kishor said that he has yet to receive the investigation report. “On the basis of the report, the board will take the further action,” he said. Kishor has asked the invigilators and teachers to collect the OMR sheet for objective questions by 11.15am in first sitting and by 3.15pm in second sitting.
 
 Meanwhile, altogether 113 examinees were expelled for using unfair means and two impersonators were arrested on the fourth day of intermediate exams (Class XII) conducted by Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) at 1384 examination centres across the state on Saturday.
 
 According to data released by BSEB, Aurangabad and Madhepura topped the list with 13 cases closely followed by 12 in Bhojpur, nine in Jehanabad, eight each in Buxar and Saharsa, seven in Banka, five each in Nawada and Jamui, four each in Vaishali and Rohtas, three each in Munger, Gaya, Samastipur and Nalanda, two each in Patna, Saran, Begusarai and Darbhanga, and one each in Sheikhpura, Araria, Arwal, Lakhisarai and East Champaran. Two impersonators were caught red-handed at each exam centre in Araria and Madepura.
 
 Total 4.55 lakh examinees appeared for Hindi paper of NRB (non-rashtra bhasha) in first sitting whereas 51,241 examinees appeared for accountancy and vocational course in second sitting.
 
