Many of us have heard time and again that people don’t like kissing someone with unhealthy teeth. Crooked teeth may be fine but swollen, red and smelly gums and teeth are surely a date breaker!

 
 As if this was not bad enough severe gum disease may also be an indicator of  . Researchers from the University of Amsterdam in The Netherlands assessed a total of 313 participants from a dental clinic at the university. Of these, 126 patients had mild-to-moderate gum disease, 78 patients had severe periodontitis (gum disease), and 198 individuals did not have signs of gum disease. This research got published in BMJ Open   Research & Care recently. These patients also had higher BMI (Body Mass Index) and high HbA1c (Glycated haemoglobin, an indicator of diabetes control).
 
 
 This study identified a very easy chairside test which uses American Diabetes Association guidelines for the diagnosis of diabetes. This validated finger-stick test for HbA1c has the accuracy of the standard immunoturbidimetric assessment of HbA1c on a clinical analyzer. Therefore, this method is very useful for the screening of (pre)diabetes in a dental office setting.
 
 
 The researchers have said that 18% of people with gum disease did not have diabetes yet the fact remains that 23% of the people with severe gum disease were diabetic and 47% were prediabetic. Although the authors agree to the fact that this is a purely observational study yet it would be useful to make the dentist’s office a preliminary place to test for a prediabetes or diabetes condition early to avoid complications due to late diagnosis and better management. 
 
 
 Inflammatory and infectious gum diseases are a cause of concern not only for oral health but also are associated with conditions like stroke, myocardial infarction and arthrosclerosis. Lately it has also been correlated to the incidence of both pre-diabetes and diabetes. In such cases dental clinics become an easy to access place for early diabetes detection even when the real symptoms may not exist.
 
 
 
 
 
 
