NAGPUR: Six armed dacoits barged into an Indian Oil petrol pump in Rana Pratap Nagar on Ring Road and looted cash and other valuables worth Rs 56,000 including one mobile phone. The dacoits, who had their faces covered, carried an arm-long knife each. They left the place after injuring a petrol pump employee.

 The dacoits had ambled into Om Auto Servo Station at around 11.15pm in pairs of two, so as not to arouse suspicion among the pump staff. They fled from the petrol after committing the dacoity within four minutes. The pump was supposed to close at 11.30pm. The employees claimed the loss could have been much worse but about a couple of lakh rupees was taken away for depositing in bank before 9.30pm.
 
 CCTV cameras installed at the pump had been shut for the last few months as the place is being renovated. The cops could not so get much footage from other cameras in the vicinity.
 
 A guard, deployed at an eatery on the opposite side of the road, claimed to have spotted three more goons waiting around 100 metres away. It is, however, not known whether they had come on bikes or car they may have parked nearby.
 
 This is the second significant dacoity in city in which the goons used sharp weapons to injure victims while wrenching valuables from them. In the early hours of January 27, armed goons had perpetrated five dacoities within an hour, leaving four victims injured in different places in city. Though the crime branch had managed to bust the gang then, the latest incident has thrown another challenge before them. This dacoity has taken place within half-a-kilometre of Rana Pratap Nagar police station. Nagpur Rural police are also faced with the uphill task of detecting a similar dacoity at a petrol pump at Mouda last month.
 
 DCP, crime,   sounded hopeful about detecting the latest dacoity. “There had been a dispute at the pump. We are looking into that aspect. We have been detecting cases, making arrests and also taking preventive action repeatedly. The actions taken by us would be deterrent,” he said.
 
 The petrol pump, owned by  , has been running for 13 years and there has never been any such incident here.  , who sustained injuries on his left leg and hand, is learnt to have earned the wrath of the goons as he was unable to take cash out of his pocket quickly.  , another employee, said the goons themselves took out the cash from their pockets without wasting time. “There were five employees at the pump. Each was held at knifepoint by the goons, who were all either wearing monkey cap or scarf to hide their face,” he said. 
 
 Ramteke also recalled how the dacoits initially walked in casually into the pump in pairs chatting among themselves. “We thought they were customers in need of fuel and their vehicle may have run dry somewhere else. Suddenly they started pouncing on us,” he said. 
 
 Another pump staff, Ramesh Murmu, was counting cash when the goons pounced on him. “They grabbed me by my neck while constantly poking the pointed edge of the knife into my stomach demanding the money. I told them to take whatever they want but spare us,” he said. 
 
 Bawne, bleeding from his injuries, was rushed to Padole Hospital as the other employees went to summon the police. 
 
 An offence of armed dacoity has been registered at Rana Pratap Nagar police station. Senior PI   of Rana Pratap Nagar police station said the dacoity seemed to be a well planned one.
 
 
