AHMEDABAD: After examination of 955 witnesses, the   case took a serious turn when a witness to the criminal conspiracy came to the witness box last month.

 The suspected Indian Mujahideen (IM) members facing the trial for July 26 bombings appear to be in a mood to take on their `friends' who stood witness against them. As first of the 26 secret witnesses testified against the accused, and identified his ‘friends’ who were allegedly involved in the terror conspiracy, the blast accused have moved   high court demanding that the witness too was part of the conspiracy and he should be arraigned as an accused and put on a trial with them. 
 
  As soon as the prosecution completed examination-in-chief of the first of the star witnesses and he stuck to his statements made before cops as well as the judicial magistrate under Section 164 of the CrPC, the defence counsels demanded that the witness be implicated in the case on the ground that he was part of the conspiracy and had hidden important information about the crime to be committed.
 
 The accused persons requested the designated court to arraign the witness as an accused as per provisions of Section 319 of the CrPC. They argued that from his examination-in-chief, it becomes clear that the witness knew everything about conspiracy; knew the name of the organization; participated in meetings; knew about who conducted recce; who supplied the explosives; how the accused got disappointed when bombs did not go off in Surat; and provided a sim card to an accused  . It was also submitted that from his revelation it is clear that he never withdrew from the conspiracy.
 
 Special prosecutor H M   opposed the demand and submitted that this was the first of the secret witnesses, who were eyewitness to the conspiracy and the events that had taken place before the blasts. There were more such witnesses to depose and the defence lawyers may file such an application in each of the cases in future. This is a means to build pressure on other witnesses. If the investigating officer feels that the person could prove an important witness and is required to be protected, such a person can be made a witness, he argued.
 
 Special judge A R Patel dismissed the application by saying that it was not proper to evaluate examination-in-chief of the witness at this stage. It is not proper to believe that he was part of the conspiracy by his mere presence in meetings held by the accused.
 
 The witnesses is yet to be cross-examined. The accused have moved the HC, which is likely to hear the case on Monday.
 
 Fifty-six persons were killed in 20 blasts that rocked Ahmedabad on July 26, 2008.
 
 
