NEW DELHI: A day after the south corporation sealed 350 shops in Amar Colony market, chief minister   on Friday told agitating traders that he “would go on a   if the   issue is not resolved by March 31”. 

  
  
 
 Amid anti-Kejriwal slogans, the chief minister said all political parties needed to unite to resolve the sealing issue. “There is a need to make changes in the master plan to provide relief to the traders suffering due to the sealing drive,” he said. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 “The Supreme Court has stayed the amendments made by DDA. I request all political parties and MPs to sit down and work out a solution in a bid to provide relief to the traders. This can’t go on,” he added. “There is a need to bring an ordinance to halt the sealing drive and only the central government can do that.” 
 
  
  
 
 Following the directive of the SC-appointed monitoring committee, the corporation sealed 350 shops for misuse of property and unauthorised construction on Thursday. 
 
  
  
 
 
 Sanjay Singh, Rajya Sabha MP from AAP, said he had requested several MPs from different parties to raise the issue in Parliament. “We will continue to do so till the problem is resolved.”
 
  
  
 
 
 However, traders want immediate action. “Where was the Delhi CM when the sealing drive started? It has been two months since the drive has been initiated and now the CM has woken up to resolve our issue,” said Ramesh Kumar, a trader.
 
 Local councillor Abhishek Dutt, who was present in the gathering, slammed Kejriwal for politicising the issue. “It has been more than two months but the CM arrives in the market today. The Delhi government has remained a mute spectator during the drive and now CM Arvind Kejriwal is politicising the issue,” said Dutt. 
 
 In a press conference, AAP’s Delhi chief spokesperson, Saurabh Bharadwaj, reiterated the ordinance demand and alleged that the BJP-led central government was not serious about the issue. “The BJP functionaries in Delhi have been making tall claims but have taken no significant step to give relief to traders.” 
 
 
