Ludhiana: It may sound bizarre, but is true. People living in same houses in Ludhiana have been identified as voters of two different areas.

 In one such case, Brijesh Chaurasya of Gurmeet Nagar, his brothers Mukesh and Jugnu are enrolled as voters in Ward 31, while the trio’s father, Sehdev Chaurasya, and mother have votes in Ward 30. All five have the same address. “It sounds funny, as some of our family members have votes in one ward, whereas others have votes in another ward. I think even the candidates would be confused who are their voters in the family,” said Sehdev. 
 
 According to district electoral officer (DEO) Pradeep Kumar Aggarwal, the only one to blame for the situation were the voters. “The draft of voter list was released about one and half months ago, and the voters could get corrections made in case of errors within seven to eights days of that. The entire process was completed on February 3,” he said.
 
 According to a source, a “technicality” could have led to the faux pas, but it refused to elaborate further.
 
 In another such case, half of the family of Jain Colony resident Hari Om has votes in one ward, while the other half is enrolled to vote in another ward. “We are a family of four, and our votes have been divided into two for the wards,” he said. “It is not just my family, though. There are nearly 50 houses in Jain Colony where families have been divided by votes.”
 
 He added that government should take immediate note of the discrepancy in voting list and solve the issue.
 
 A resident of Gurmeet Nagar, Dayanath Pandey, said he had lodged complaint into the matter with the district election authorities, but nothing had been done so far. “As per a government notification and map, our address comes under Ward 31. But authorities have enlisted as voters in Ward 30. Even the candidates of Ward 31 are confused as they come to our house for campaigning, and we have to tell them we have votes in Ward 30. This is funny, but true”, said Pandey, who has three votes in his family, including that of his wife, Ajay Kumari, and daughter Preeti. 
 
 The husband of candidate Gauri Jain, Yogesh,said they had a list of such cases where half members of a family had votes in one ward and rest in another.
 
 
