BENGALURU: A gang of men promising cure for multiple disorders through an oil has allegedly cheated many patients and their families in Bengaluru. The team operated from   store in Indiranagar II Stage. The store, however, has remained shut for the last 10 days, with patients who fell prey to the crooks making multiple trips to the shop. One of them has filed a police complaint.

 Victims have lost amounts ranging from Rs 8,000 to Rs 2.7 lakh buying the oil.
 
 
 
 
 Two young men speaking in   or English would approach vulnerable patients and their families at public places and explain to them the power of the healing oil. If the patient or a family member agreed to buy the oil, one of them would visit the family the same day and prepare the oil using several herbs, coconut oil, flower and other ingredients. They would make the victim buy the ingredients. Once the oil would be ready, the man would ask one of the family members to accompany him to the store, where the person would be told to pay huge sums of money to buy bhasma (ash) that had to be added to the oil.
 
 The men are now absconding and not even reachable on their cellphones.
 
 Homemaker   P, 45, a victim from  , has filed a complaint with Indiranagar police, saying she was cheated of Rs 8,000. “I was headed to a temple on my two-wheeler, when a man abruptly stopped me and started telling me about this oil that could cure my skin disorder. He even came to my house and prepared the oil the same day. While my husband was against this, I somehow fell for it. The man got agitated when my husband asked him if he was a doctor,” she said. Once the the oil was prepared, the man took Padmavathi to Parampara store to buy bhasma.
 
 “A gram of bhasma costs Rs 2,000 to Rs 8,000. Soon, the man started ordering 20-30 grams of bhasma on my behalf. That’s when I got a doubt and refused to pay. He, however, managed to convinced me and I ended up shelling out Rs 8,000, as that was all I had. I was told to pay the rest of the amount later,” she said. Disappointed with the oil, Padmavathi returned to the store a week later only to find it shut. 
  B K  , a businessman from Byrathi, too has been making multiple trips to Parampara store. He was there on Wednesday too, when TOI visited the place. “I wasted Rs 2.7 lakh on this oil. Once, when I was taking my wife to an orthopaedic, two men approached us, saying they had an oil that could cure her. They even came to our house and prepared the oil,” said Thyagarajan.
 
 
 
 
 The men even tried to con a doctor from Indiranagar, who was visiting   with his family. “They saw my mother-in-law suffering from Parkinson’s and said they had an oil that could be of help. They came home and prepared the oil using several herbal ingredients. Later, when we were taken to   shop, we realized it was a trap. They asked us to pay Rs 37,000, but we refused,” the doctor said.
 
 A senior doctor from the Ayush wing of the state health and family welfare department admitted to the department receiving similar complaints. “Six months ago, a senior- citizen couple reported a similar case. These gangs are operating in public places and it’s tough to nab them. People must be aware of such crooks. If any patient wants ayurvedic drugs, he or she must go to a certified practitioner or visit the government ayurvedic college or government dispensaries,” the doctor said. 
 Asked why the government was turning a blind eye to this whole issue, despite being aware of it, the doctor said the matter would be taken up with the higher authorities soon.
 
 
  
