TRIPUNITHURA: It was an interesting 'twist' of a CCTV camera that led to the arrest of three persons from the 11-member gang behind the serial robbery at Pullepady in Kochi city and   in   in December last year.

 The three accused, Arshad, Shamsad and   were brought to   on Sunday morning by train from New Delhi. They were then taken to Tripunithura circle inspector's office. "We identified the accused from the footage of a CCTV installed at a footwear shop near   office in Eroor. The camera caught them breaking the CCTV installed near the   office. But, they did nit destroy the camers as it was not facing them. We suspect that due to strong wind, the camera might have turned and captured their actions," said Tripunithura circle inspector P S Shiju, who headed the special investigation team (SIT) to  .
 
 The CCTV footage showed that the gang reaching near the financial institution in an auto in the early hours on December 13. Though the footage showed the auto used by the gang, the number of the vehicle was not clear. "But a sticker on the auto, showing the symbol of love with the photo of two lovers, was visible in the footage," Shiju said.
 
 The police then traced the auto with the 'symbol of love' from Vyttila mobility hub. The auto driver identified that he had taken the persons captured on the CCTV camera in his auto.
 
 From the CCTV footage at Vyttila hub, the SIT could trace the bus from which the gang members got down at the hub. Here also the video footage showed only the front portion of the bus without the number.
 
 "Here we could notice a scratch on the front of the bus," Shiju said. "This scratch enabled us to spot the bus and the conductor. As they had an argument with him over the issue of fare the conductor was able to identify the group easily," Shiju explained the miraculous turn of events in the investigation.
 
 The conductor also said that these group boarded his bus from High Court after getting off a bus coming from Vypeen. Based on this valuable information, the cyber cell drafted a detailed scanning of calls in Vypeen area. This search finally zeroed in Noorkhan alias Nazeerkhan, Arshad, Shamsad and Rony, said the police officer. Bangladesh native Noorkhan, the mastermind behind the robbery, used his scrap warehouse at Vypeen as the point from where the 'operations' were planned. 
 
 
