Alcohol and age have dimmed 61-year-old Sivaraja Subramaniam’s memory of what happened in March 2011. He has vague recollection of shadow-boxing, singing a lewd Tamil song and tottering within the high walls that had been his home since he fled the war in   a decade ago. Seven years on, Subramaniam, a Sri Lankan refugee in Tamil Nadu, is still paying the price for his drunken antics. He has a case of public nuisance pending against him – a reason officials find valid enough to stop his return home.

  like Sivaraja are among those being baited by people smugglers who are bristling in Tamil Nadu’s refugee camps for Lankan Tamils. Since April 1, the Sri   has intercepted at least five fishing boats illegally ferrying families from refugee camps in TN to the northern parts of Sri Lanka.
 
 
  
 
 On May 4, a fishing boat crammed with 14 refugees, including four children was intercepted by Sri Lankan authorities while trying to cross over to the north-west province of Mannar via Palk Strait. Less than two weeks later, a four-member family from Tamil Nadu’s Mandapam camp, including a 11-month-old child, were detained in Jaffna when they arrived on the northern coast in a dinghy. Since April 2016, officials there have detained at least 100 people who have risked their lives to undertake the treacherous   route home.
 
 Officials in both countries say there could be many more who are unaccounted. 
 
 Noting the increase in people opting for illegal ferry rides over the legal channels provided by the UNHCR, the Q Branch of Tamil Nadu police organised a meeting with refugees in Mandapam camp in Ramanathapuram on May 21. "Some of the refugees said they aren’t given a timeline for   by officials. Tired of waiting, they take the ferry," said Mathivathana Kaliraja, a retired Sri Lankan government official, who was part of the meeting. Pending cases against them and mounting debts were cited as other reasons. Mandapam camp, which can house 10,000 refugees, now has 1,800 from the community.
 
 Organisation for Eelam Refugee Rehabilitation (OfERR), which has offices in Chennai and Jaffna, did a survey among 109 refugees who landed on Lankan shores — close to 30% of them had a case pending against them or a family member in India, 16% of them had debts and close to 20% of them didn’t have documents required by UNHCR for repatriation. Almost all of them were heading to Vavuniya, Mannar, Jaffna, Trincomlee or Mullaitheevu.
 
 Kirthikan M, 22, left on a boat from Point Calimere in Nagapattinam district along with his father and brother in the night of August 17 last year. At 18, he was accused of stealing a mobile phone. "For four years, no chargesheet was filed. When we applied for repatriation to UNHCR, our application was rejected citing the case," Kirthikan told TOI over phone from Chettikulam in Sri Lanka. They paid `40,000 per head for the journey. 
 
 "Many of us don’t have the money for legal aid. At the end of our term, another petty case is slapped on us and we go right back in," said Subramaniam, who, like Kirthikan, is yet to be chargesheeted. His family left through the legal route in 2015. 
 
 On December 18, last year, a Sri Lankan Tamil, a resident of Mandapam camp who ran a small canteen, moved the Madras high court alleging that the Q Branch police of threatened to implicate her family in false cases, when she refused to pay them bribes. 
 
 Officials, however, say some of the cases against refugees are serious, including murder, attempt to murder and drug smuggling. "Many of them borrow heavily and simply vanish," said an official in the Tamil Nadu commissionerate of rehabilitation and welfare of non-resident Tamils. He cited a recent incident of four families, with pending debts, vanishing from a camp in Tuticorin.
 
 UNHCR facilitates refugees’ air travel and local allowance to reach the airport and from their place of residence. It conducts interviews with refugees to ensure their willingness to return. It is when they are asked to obtain exit permission from authorities, the ones with cases and debts in their names are in a fix. To a question on how many applications have been rejected since the end of the war in 2009, the refugee agency was evasive. At present, 1,400 refugees have registered with the UNHCR and are waiting to complete formalities.
 
 S C Chandrahasan, founder of OfFER, said the government should consider giving amnesty to those accused of petty offences or at least fast track cases. "We have also been pushing for legalising ferry service between both countries," he said. A proposal for this, submitted by the Tamil Nadu government, is currently pending before the Centre. Officials have identified around 3,000 refugees in camps who want the legal ferry service to resume. 
 
 
