Trichy: National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy recruited 48 teaching faculty on Tuesday. While the recruitment has come after a record 10 years, a total 131 existing faculty members were also promoted who have been awaiting the same for over 6 years. The last recruitment was made way back in 2008.

 Faculty shortage has been a major issue in almost all NIT’s after the flexible four tier recruitment was adopted in 2012 leading many of the existing faculty members to court and the recruitment was frozen.
 
 Breaking a decade old deadlock on faculty recruitment, that has been taking a toll on its quality, National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy recruited 48 teaching faculty. Out of the new entrants, 42 are assistant professors, 2 associate professors, and 4 professors.
 
 “Most of the candidates hold Ph D degrees from various Indian Institute of Technology and also have exposure in foreign universities,” said the director, NIT Trichy Mini Shaji Thomas.
 
 NIT Trichy is the first NIT in the country to make the first set of recruitment, after the revised set of recruitment rules released in July last year, Mini Shaji said.
 
 Saying that they kept selection process strict, she said applications were called to fill 132 vacancies but 48 were selected.
 
 Out of total 3700 applications received which includes 134 existing faculties due for promotions, 460 were shortlisted. Over 50 section committees were formed to select teaching faculty for 17 departments.
 
 Terming the development as a landmark for NIT-Trichy she said the new entrants would help the institute for its faster growth. However, she said 48 out of the existing 134 vacancies have been filled and more recruitment will be done in the upcoming years to fill the vacancies.
 
 Asked on the doubts that candidates from the state funded universities are not considered for recruitment, she said candidates should have atleast one degree, either B Tech, M Tech or Ph D from a centrally funded institute. Only such eligible candidates have been allowed and recruited she added.
 
 
