Ludhiana: A day after the income tax department announced the launch of its   campaign for city schools, queries have started pouring in from more schools and even colleges, seeking the department’s help in making such gardens in their institutions. After the visit of about 100 school principals to the department office in Rishi Nagar on Monday, principals and staff of 150 schools visited the department’s office on Tuesday, to see the vertical garden installed there, and take in-depth details about the project from IT officials.

 Reacting to the response received to the vertical garden campaign, chief commissioner of Income Tax (Ludhiana)   said: “We are getting an overwhelming response to this green plastic initiative of ours, and it is really heartening to see how schools have responded to this initiative, which can turn the fortunes of the city from one of the most polluted to the cleanest and greenest city of the country. This initiative can be very effectively spread through the involvement of schools, and lead to over-all improved health of the children. Apart from being an effective means of reducing pollution throughout the city, this Green Plastic Initiative is a novel project and an innovative tool for connecting the I-T Department with tax-payers and society at large, presenting a responsible and responsive face of the department.”
 
 Other officials present in Tuesday’s programme included principal commissioners R Bhama, DS Choudhary and Avdhesh K Mishra; additional commissioner Rohit Mehra; joint commissioners   and Manav Bansal; and deputy commissioners Maninder Kaur and Kamal Deep. 
 
 SCHOOLS KEEN ON GREEN PROJECT
 
 “This is really an impressive concept, and the best part is that along with beautifying the building, it helps in cutting down pollution. We have already conveyed our consent to the I-T department for installing this project in our school, and we are hopeful it will be completed by January 30.” —  , principal, Government Middle School, Boothgarh Jattan
 
 “We congratulate the Income Tax department for starting this marvellous initiative that will help reduce pollution in our city. Our school will be more than happy to be a part of this project. Moreover, installation of such a garden in school will help inspire students to care for the environment, and also take this message forward to their families and relatives.” — Tapinder Pal Kaur, Principal, Government High School, Khandoor
 
 “This type of innovative initiative is the need of the hour in Ludhiana, and indeed a very cheap way of spreading the green cover. Thanks to the I-T department for making us a part of this campaign, and we feel proud to be associated with this initiative. We have started arranging the required material for the project in our school, and we will start it very soon.” — HK Kaushal, principal, Government Senior Secondary School, Kasabad
 
 “It’s a wonderful project. We have been thinking for a long time to have something like this in our school, which presents a beautiful sight and is also easy to maintain. We have already requested our students to bring waste bottles from their homes, so that we can complete the project at the earliest. This is really going to have a very huge and positive impact on our students, and will help them learn a lot.” — Dr Amarjeet Kaur, Blossoms Convent School, Jagraon 
 
 
