NEW DELHI: The Delhi   on Thursday   the   for its   to come up with a   to   the simian population in the city. It wondered if the government thinks   will wait and not procreate or bite people till it comes out with a method to   them.

 A bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar also faulted the government for importing oral immune-contraception vaccines for testing on the simians, without obtaining required approvals.
 
 It noted that the vaccine imported from the United States was primarily used to sterilise horses and has not been used on monkeys anywhere in the world. “Why did you import the vaccine if the permission for trials has not been received,” the court queried, reminding the agencies that the issue of controlling monkey population is pending since 2001 and the Centre is yet to develop a mechanism to reduce their numbers.
 
 The court was hearing a PIL filed in 2001 by advocate Meera Bhatia seeking directions to the authorities to take steps to deal with the menace of monkeys and dogs in the city.
 
 The bench noted that even the Delhi government and a committee set up on court orders to develop an action plan to control the simian population, have not taken any steps. It directed the committee to hold a meeting in a day and come out with a timeline to take steps to sterilise the monkeys.
 
 The court said members from NGO Wildlife SOS and the Wildlife Institute of India would be part of this panel, which will also draw up a project estimate for sterilisation of monkeys and will forward it to the Centre.
 
 The Wildlife Institute of India was directed to ensure that it applied for all requisite permissions within three days and the central agencies were asked to process these applications within four weeks. 
 
 During the arguments, Wildlife SOS told the court it had successfully carried out surgical sterilisation by laproscopy of 500 monkeys in Agra and said it could replicate the results in Delhi too if it received the authorities’ cooperation. Delhi government, on the other hand, said that surgical sterilisation was ruled out as it was found to be invasive.
 
 
