
 
 
 KOZHIKODE: In a rare instance of true tribal empowerment in action, a tribal housing construction society formed by around 50 enterprising tribal youths at   is on the way, albeit in baby steps, to become a construction major and is rewriting the way in which tribal housing projects are being implemented in  .
 
 The   formed by tribal youths— most of whom victims of cheating by benami contractors who had made it a practice of abandoning construction of houses midway after duping the tribal beneficiaries of the sanctioned funds — now has their order books full. They have become the builder of choice for Muttil and Kaniyambetta panchayats along with government agencies in the district.
 
 The society has completed 49 tribal houses so far and has over 150 houses currently under construction. That apart, Wayanad district authorities have asked the group to complete the works of 50 more tribal houses abandoned by benami contractors under the LIFE project.
 
 It is one of the many societies formed by the district administration in 2014 as an answer to the rampant mismanagement and corruption in the construction of houses for the poor. The tribal stronghold district of Wayanad still has around 6,000 unfinished houses, including those allotted to the SC category, mostly after being abandoned by benami contractors.
 
 “We know first-hand what it means for a tribal family to have a roof over their head. Even some of the members of the society have been victims of cheating by contractors,”   Pannikuzhy, president of the Muttil tribal society, said.
 
 Impressed by their track record,   has approached them to construct over 100 cattle sheds for select beneficiaries for an upcoming Rs 2.47-crore dairy scheme in Wayanad. Also, the society has completed construction of 15 toilet blocks in Kalpetta municipality.
 
 “The society has 46 members and all of us are into construction of houses, handling works like masonry, carpentry, electrical works, painting, etc. We ensure that the entire amount of Rs 3.5 lakh sanctioned for each house for constructing a 400 sq ft house is spent on the house itself and we take just the wages,” Sasi added.
 
 ITDP project officer P Vanidas said that the department has recently sanctioned Rs 3 lakh towards purchase of construction equipment for the society to strengthen it and help them expand their activities.
 
 Sasi said that the society look forward to slowly expand its operations in the future to become a major player in the construction sector. “We have before us examples of labour contracting societies like the Uralungal Labour Contract Society Ltd which has made it big from small beginnings. Actually, we were trained by them and we hope to scale up in the future,” Sasi added.
 
 Wayanad district collector S Suhas said that the society has been doing an excellent job in taking up and completing tribal housing project on time. “Due to their presence, we have been able to get rid of benami contractors in Muttil panchayat to start with,” he said.
 
