TIRUNELVELI: J Maria Rose  , the wife of murdered policeman,   has said that she suspects the role of a few tainted policemen and revenue department personnel in her husband’s killing.

 In a petition to the collector, Margarete, who is in her fifth month of pregnancy, said that her husband has been serving the department for 11 years. She said that around 9pm on Sunday her husband received a call from the sub-inspector of   police station that illegally mined sand is being smuggled between Vijayanarayanam and   and was asked to rush to the spot. She added that he started from their house in   village on his two-wheeler.
 
 “Close to midnight I received a call from the Moolakaraipatti police (a police station near Vijayanarayanam) saying that my husband is missing. Puzzled, we (she and a few relatives) searched for my husband and went to the Vijayanarayanam police station as we could not find him,” she said.
 
 “The policemen on duty at the station were sleeping. Later, two policemen accompanied us to several places in search of my husband. Around 6am on Monday we were informed that my husband was murdered,” Margarete said in the petition and put forth five demands to the state government. The key demand was to identify the police personnel, officers and revenue department staff who were working hand in glove with the illegal miners and punish them.
 
 Margarete, who is a M. Com. and B.Ed. graduate, also sought a government teacher’s job on compassionate grounds, Rs 1 crore compensation for securing the future of her family and urged the state government to fully meet the educational needs of her three-year-old son and the soon to be born child. Her relatives handed over the petition to the sub-collector of Cheranmahadevi, P Akash.
 
 Earlier, Durai’s relatives resorted to a road blockade outside collector’s bungalow, near the government hospital mortuary where the body was kept and sought the arrest of those involved.
 
 Meanwhile, police personnel too suspected that few people in the department could be behind Durai’s murder. They also said that the district administration should conduct an inquiry with officials in the mines and minerals and revenue departments for not checking illegal sand mining.
 
 
