VADODARA: In a gruesome incident, a nine-year-old tribal girl was allegedly raped by the cleaner in a moving private sleeper-coach bus in   taluka of   district post Wednesday midnight .

 The girl was travelling with her family to attend a wedding at Bhindol village in Pavi Jetpur. The girl’s grandfather told the police that after boarding the bus at   village around 9.30 pm, the family was sitting on the front seats of the bus while the girl went and sat in one of the sleeper cabins in the rear of the bus. Both villages are in Pavi Jetpur taluka.
 
 Around midnight, when the bus was passing by Ratanpur village, the girl’s uncle heard knocks on the door of the cabin. He opened the shutter and brought her out and caught the cleaner, Vishnu Koli. There was huge uproar and chaos in the bus after it came to light that the girl was sexually assaulted. When the driver slowed down the vehice, Koli took advantage of the situation and managed to escape from the bus in the dark of the night. Ratanpur is around 90 km from Vadodara.
 
 When the girl was asked, she said that Koli entered her cabin and closed it . When she shouted for help, he gagged her mouth and raped her. Initially, no one could hear her shout for help as the vehicle was moving and it was noisy. Even when the   tried to shout, Koli slapped her and threatened of dire consequences. It was only when she knocked the door, she was rescued.
 
 Police said that the family did not approach the police immediately as they did not want to disturb the wedding. But they informed Pavi Jetpur police on Thursday morning about the crime.
 
 The police seized the bus and asked the driver to reveal details of the accused. “The driver told us that Koli was a casual labourer and used to work as cleaner in any private bus in Pavi Jetpur. He earned Rs 200 for every trip,” said A N Bhatt, police sub-inspector, Pavi Jetpur police station.
 
 Bhatt added that when they learnt through the driver that Koli was to go on another trip with a private bus, they nabbed him in Pavi Jetpur town itself.
 
 When they produced him before the rape survivor, she identified him as the man. 
 
 When police questioned him after arrest, he also revealed that his father Ramesh was in jail for some crime. On Thursday, both, the girl and Koli, were brought to the state-run   in Vadodara for medical check-up.
 
 
 
