Nagpur: In a noble gesture, artists have joined hands with HCG NCHRI   Centre and HCG Foundation to put up on sale their paintings half of the proceeds of which would go to the relief fund for those children who are fighting the disease. 

 An exhibition of paintings organized jointly by the foundation and Swati Art Gallery was inaugurated at Kalamna Ring Road hospital on Sunday in which 20 city artists have showcased their skills to create awareness about cancer in children.
 
 Addressing the gathering, neurologist Chandrashekhar Meshram said consistent support and positive attitude go a long way in dealing with cancer patients. Lauding the initiative, Dr Meshram said it will provide financial assistance to the suffering children and boost the morale of their relatives.
 
 Paintings and models of different genres have been put up at the exhibition that will be open to viewers from 9am to 6pm till April 4.
 
 Curator of the exhibition Chandrakant Channe said that the society has a crucial role to play in fighting diseases like cancer. The artists have discharged their duty towards society by contributing to the exhibition. Half of the money generated through sale of the paintings will go to the relief fund while the artists will take the remaining amount, Channe added.
 
 Dr Suchitra Mehta, director, HCG NCHRI Cancer Centre, said, “Holistic medical approach is required to treat cancer. There are cases when some families cannot bear the cost of treatment and therefore need financial support. There are some other families which get devastated if one of them is diagnosed with cancer and need morale support,” she said. 
 
 Mehta said the funds raised through the sale of exhibits will be utilized to treat children suffering from the life-threatening cancer. This will help them lead a dignified life after getting cured. The motto of the foundation is to provide quality treatment to every patient irrespective of their financial background, she added.
 
 As part of the campaign to support children suffering from cancer, the centre runs unique therapy sessions. Art, book and audio-visual therapies for patients and their relatives have found to be effective in fighting and getting better of the disease like cancer, Dr Mehta said. 
 
 Sagnik Jaiswal of Swasti Art Gallery said art can be used as a therapy and the goal is to reach out to patients and aid them in every possible way. The exhibition has provided a platform to regional artists, besides helping patients, she said.
 
 ends
 
 
