MANALI: While Himachal government is mulling exploration of possibilities to set up ropeways and monorail tracks to connect its crowded tourist destinations to decongest roads, villages on the fringes of towns will soon be connected by electric taxis. Transport and forest minister Govind Singh Thakur has advised   (HRTC) officials to identify routes to villages closeby where   can be operated. 

 The minister announced to start four electric taxis very soon and also directed officials of National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) to speed up road widening projects and pay special heed to public rights.
 
 “To strengthen sewerage system and to connect villages near Manali with sewage treatment plan, a DPR (detailed project report) of Rs 162 crore has been sent to the Centre for its sanction. A biodiversity park would be developed at   in Kullu. Ecotourism would be promoted in the state. Modern bus stands will be built in Manali and   and forest land for the purpose would be transferred shortly,” he said.
 
 The minister also asked the department officials to clear all formalities to build a multi-story parking and power substation in Manali. He told them to open files of channelization of the Beas river from   to Aut and several other irrigation schemes. He said the government would also look in to the possibilities of expanding the civil hospital in Manali.
 
 “All facilities like toilets and other amenities along the road between Kullu and Manali would be developed for the convenience of tourists. More nature parks would be developed. All departments have been directed to start preparing for coming summer season in advance. All officials have been asked to come out of the offices and meet people to get their feedback for various development schemes,” Thakur said.
 
 The minister also directed forest officials to increase surveillance to check deforestation and asked them to take strict action against forest and mining mafia. Expressing concern over increasing cases of drugs in Kullu, he asked police to run strict campaign against drug mafia.
 
 
