Kolkata: If issues like open defecation and menstrual hygiene are providing food for thought to mainstream Bollywood movies, can Tollywood be left far behind?

 Mainstream Bengali cinema – apart from literary adaptations and whodunits – is mirroring social realities of today’s Bengal. Keeping an eye on the cash registers no longer only means relying only on the girl-meets-boy story. From child sex abuse at a Ranikuthi school to eye donation, from dementia to terrorism – matinee idols are embracing scripts with all these subjects and more.
 
 According to Prosenjit Chatterjee, his recent screen outings - ‘Drishtikone’ and ‘Mayurakshi’ – are continuing the trend set by yesteryear Tollywood. Bengali cinema, he reminded, have had a history of making such movies. As reference, he cites Asit Sen’s “Dweep Jele Jai” – the 1959 blockbuster that hinged on the iconic performance of Suchitra Sen in the role of a psychiatric ward nurse, the haunting “Ei raat tomar amar” song by Hemanta Kumar and Anil Gupta’s silhouetted shots. “Mainstream Tollywood is going back to those days. Cinema is the best medium to communicate. One way of communication is to go the didactic way. The other way is to do it intelligently. Dev’s ‘Kabir’ tried to give a strong message even while sticking to a mainstream format. Today’s mainstream audience isn’t alienated while movies touch issues like mental health (‘Mayurakshi’) and involuntary organ harvesting (‘Drishtikone’),” Chatterjee said.
 
  
  
 A still of ‘Drishtikone’
 
 According to Srijit Mukherji, everything changed with his Prosenjit-starrer ‘Autograph’. “The niche subject of my film got an overwhelming popularity. Then, came ‘Baishey Srabon’, ‘Bhooter Bhobisyot’, ‘Hemlock Society’ and Nandita Roy-Shiboprasad Mukherjee films. Now, Kaushik Ganguly’s movies have also joined this brigade which has got bigger and stronger with the escapist mainstream cinema not doing well. Stars are also keen to explore new territories. Dev had intelligently made the shift with ‘Buno Hansh’,” said Mukherji whose forthcoming “Uma” is about a girl dealing with terminal illness. Up next is a 2018 adaptation “Chowinghee” to highlight the hotel industry of contemporary Kolkata.
  
  
 A still from ' '
 
 Incidentally, Roy-Mukherjee’s “Ichhe” has set a benchmark in this context of mainstream Bengali cinema. After this sleeper hit, the director duo churned out other commercial successes including “Muktodhara”, “Ramdhanu” and “Belaeshe”. “Tollywood always made these kind of films. Look at Tarun Mazumdar’s ‘Ganadevata’ and Tapan Sinha’s ‘Atanka’ and ‘Apanjan’. All that stopped when the urban and rural divide in cinema was created. But we refuse to believe in this divide. The child abuse issue in schools that we have raised in ‘Haami’ is as relevant in Kolkata as it is in Serampore or Bangalore,” Mukherjee said.
 
 Director   describes this as “neo-mainstream cinema”. According to him, this form of cinema is continuing the trend set by yesteryear hits like ‘Sansar Simante’, ‘Udayar Pathe’ and ‘Aparichita’. He particularly highlights the Supriya Devi-starrer ‘Mon Niye’ - film on psychological health had become a big box-office hit. “My forthcoming film – ‘Goodnight City’ – is exploring the psychology of a criminal in a very mainstream format. Earlier, I made ‘Cockpit’ – a film based on true incidents of three plane crashes,” the director said.
 
 Kaushik Ganguly cites the example of Uttam-Suchitra’s “Saptapadi”. Though its “Ei poth jodi na sesh hoy” remains an anthem for any romantic at heart, this Ajor Kar classic isn’t just another song-and-dance routine. “There was a World War II reference even in this inter-faith love story. In my ‘Bisarjan’, there was a backdrop of border politics and Hindu-Muslim communal unrest. Now with ‘Drishtikone’, I explored an extra-marital love story while bringing in contemporary disturbing maladies like involuntary organ harvesting,” Ganguly said.
 
 All this, if Ganguly is to be believed, is a test of for mainstream Bengali films growing out of their infancy in choosing their subjects. “Entertainment cannot just be swinging around tree trunks and prancing around in the snow. Our audience resides in a world, wounded by scars of insecurity, instability and urban unhappiness. They turn to entertainment to ease their pain. It is our prerogative as craftsmen to gift that very audience, relevant, relatable entertainment with a healing touch.”
 
