As you enter the venue of the  , ten vibrantly-painted cars and two auto rickshaws, parked in a row, greet you. Like every year, the festival - an initiative by Jaipur-based vintage car restorer  , which opened to the public on Friday this time - has blended automobile, art and sculpture together, with artists across India exhibiting their work before the Jaipur junta. 

 From a Jaguar E-Type 1961 model, designed by Himanshu himself, using 5,000 various automobile parts, attractive sculptures of camel and blackbuck, made by Santosh K Venkatesh from Visakhapatnam, using old parts of trucks and motorcycles, to variety of painted toy cars and a Beetle covered in pichwai embroidered fabric, the festival has displayed it all. The Jaguar E-Type 1961 model became a selfie zone for many on day one of the festival because of its unique design. 
 
  
  
 
 So what's new at the festival this time? "It is the fourth year at the festival and this time, we have come up with furniture made of automobile parts or resembling automobiles, made by local artisans. From a centre table carved out in the shape of a car, tire chairs to coffee tables made of bike and car parts, we have exhibited all. This year, we have also come up with small steel trunks with unique artwork and catchphrases, ones you will usually see on the back of trucks. For instance, on one of the trunks, there is a one-liner painted 'Horn Ok Please'. While on the other, 'Wait For The Side' is painted," replied Himanshu. 
 
 Simultaneously, art students and art enthusiasts have been busy unleashing their creativity on the canvas at the festival. The theme of the art works at this fest: Automobiles. "They have come from all across India and on the last day, we will be exhibiting their paintings at the festival," informed Himanshu. 
 
  
  
 
 On day one, we came across Mahesh Prajapati, a mechanical engineer from Ahmedabad, who was busy painting a blue car on the canvas. "Since I am a mechanical engineer, my life revolves around automobiles. Painting, on the other hand, is my new-found love. I have been painting for the past two years. Thus, I thought of participating in this festival where I could combine my love for automobiles and fascination for art. I am making a 3D model of a car. I hope it turns out well," said Mahesh. 
 
 Firdosh, a fine arts student of Jamia Milia Islamia, was seen making an interesting painting where she was trying to fuse Rajasthani culture with the theme of automobiles. When we asked her how she would do that, she replied, "Camel is still a means of transport in many villages of Rajasthan, employed to carry people and to pull carts with loads of heavy goods. So I am making a painting of a Rajasthani villager pulling a convertible car instead of a camel cart. The car will be decorated in a way similar to the manner in which camels are adorned in Rajasthan." 
  
  
 Nikhil Sharma, another fine arts student of the same institute, was busy with calligraphy drawings. "I am writing letters in calligraphic font style. So, if you look at the painting, you will see that all the letters are written/arranged in a way that they are taking the shape of a car," said Nikhil. 
 
 The festival attracted a lot of attention from the tourists as well. Sigrid, a tourist from Germany, summed up her experience of visiting the festival in just one word: "Superb!". 
 
 Meanwhile, Himanshu added, "A huge painting of 'We Love Jaipur' will be made at the festival which will be a gift from the   to Jaipur." 
 
  
  
 
