CHENNAI: In response to a plea from CM Edappadi K Palaniswami to set up a unit of   (HAL) in his home district Salem, defence minister   advised the state government to work on a defence corridor connecting   port, Chennai, Trichy, Coimbatore, Hosur and Bengaluru. 

 They were speaking at a two-day defence-industry partnership meet in the city on Thursday. 
 
 "Madam, I recall your recent speech in Coimbatore on the MSME sector and fully agree with your views. SMEs should come forward to take up large projects and programmes from defence forces, DRDO, Isro and other central defence PSUs. Our state government will readily support such moves," said Palaniswami. The CM followed it up with a request to set up an HAL unit in Salem. "In this backdrop, I request the minister to consider establishing a manufacturing facility of HAL for light combat aircraft and helicopters in   in any suitable location. I suggest that HAL may set up their base in Salem, which is centrally located and has a large land bank. I also request the minister to set up a military base in Sulur Air force station in Coimbatore," the CM said.
 
 Sitharaman did not give any commitment on the HAL proposal. "I have the proposal put forth by the CM in mind. But TN can think of having a defence corridor starting from Kattupalli port," she said. Chennai has huge potential for defence equipment manufacturing as it has three ports, apart from the Avadi tank factory, she said.
 
 Meanwhile, Codissia (a cluster of small industries in Coimbatore) came in for praise from three vice-chiefs of services. "A few months ago, we had interactions with industrial associations. At that meeting, we were asked about Codissia. None of us, including me, had any knowledge about it," said   vice-chief Lt Gen Sarath Chand. Codissia is a grouping of 5,000 small companies in one district and this is the largest in the country, he said. 
 
 Coimbatore has enormous skill resource. Looking at TN's intellectual resources, there is huge potential to work on products in metallurgy and solids, said Air Force vice-chief Air Marshal S B Deo. He said his office would help in clearing doubts of MSMEs interested in getting involved in defence equipment manufacturing.
 
 
