John Abraham’s next film, the Robbie Grewaldirected espionage-thriller 'Romeo Akbar Walter' (RAW) which is set in the 1970s, sees him share screen space with Jackie Shroff for the first time. The duo is set to kick off the film’s first schedule in Gujarat on June 10.
 
 Joining them will be  , who was last seen as the terrorist Haroon Sherchand in the Anil Kapoor-starrer Hindi version of the TV show '24'. In the film, Sikander plays John’s nemesis and the two actors will feature in several rounds of “war of words”. After wrapping up his portions as the baddie of Tigmanshu Dhulia’s 'Milan Talkies' in Lucknow, Sikander is now prepping to play the villain once again, this time inspired by a real-life man-on-a-mission with shades of grey. “I am undergoing readings and workshops,” Sikander says, while writer-director Robbie adds, “There will be several sequences where John and Sikander are pitted against each other. During the readings I’ve noticed that the timing is going to be crucial. Sikander makes a great nemesis.”
 
  
  
 The film will be shot in a start-to-finish, threemonth schedule, which involves 60 days of rigorous shooting. “We begin in Gujarat; filming continues through Jammu and Kashmir, Nepal, and the schedule ends with some portions being filmed in Mumbai. A leading lady, who will join the cast in Kashmir, will be announced shortly,” informs Bunty Walia, who is co-producing the film with wife Vanessa, Ajay Kapoor, Dheeraj Wadhwan and Gary Grewal.
 
 Robbie is presently in Gulmarg on a recce. The film will also be shot in Srinagar and Jammu. “I’ve been to Kashmir several times to shoot for commercials in the past. My father was in the armed forces and was posted there. I was very young when I first visited the Valley and I wish I could shoot there again and again. The people, the scenery, the food, everything is splendid,” Robbie told Mirror from Kashmir.
 
 The film’s highlight is expected to be the actors’ unique looks as the makers have roped in National Award-winning makeup artist Vikram Gaikwad and famous costume designer Amera Pulwani for the film. John and Jackie’s characters are based on real people, with the latter playing a stylish Chief of RAW.
 
 Meanwhile, John has wrapped up Satyamev Jayate, a Bhushan Kumar and Nikkhil Advani co-production. Directed by Milap Zaveri, the action-packed thriller is set in Mumbai and revolves around a cop and a murderer. It also features Manoj Bajpayee and Aisha Sharma.
  
  
 
