CHANDIGARH: Attempts to bring back the   during the student council elections have hit yet another roadblock. In a bid to conduct paperless elections in Panjab University (PU) this year, the university was contemplating to revive the open house system in PU. However, in a meeting held recently to discuss the issue, sources said that some were against its revival and want to limit the open house to smaller platforms like department-wise. 

 While discussing the recommendations to limit the use of paper in the student council elections, it was discussed that handling an open house can be problematic for the authorities. It was then recommended that PU should opt for open houses at department levels. Instead of conducting one single open house for the entire university, student parties can look at exploring the option of department-wise open houses, said sources. 
 
 Moreover, university authorities are yet to take a decision on implementing the paperless election system. “We are yet to discuss the matter with our legal counsel since we have to keep in mind the   norms and cannot defy these since the directions have come from the  ,” said dean student welfare (DSW) Prof Emanual Nahar. 
 
 The open house system came into play two days before the actual polling date in an open space adjoining the Student Centre in PU. However, it was stopped in 2010 after untoward incidents of brawls. The most-awaited annual event would attract huge number of students where the student parties would highlight their ideology, strengths and the issues they would take up if they come to power. Violence and presence of outsiders were the reasons behind discontinuing the open house.
 
 Moreover, the recommendations include introduction of fixed time slots at the radio station of the university for campaigning. PU was contemplating making the student council election paperless after the Punjab and Haryana high court on September 30, 2017, had issued notices to the Central government,   (UGC) and PU after taking cognizance of a petition seeking paperless student elections in PU. The petitioner sought directions for holding paperless canvassing in the elections. He also sought directions to ensure the   elections are held without polluting the environment. 
 
 
