GURUGRAM: Haryana’s first  , equipped with a digital forensic laboratory, was inaugurated in Gurugram on Wednesday.

 The police station is located on the first floor of a three-storey building in front of Two Horizon Centre on Golf Course Road. It will have a dedicated team of 35 specially trained cops, including two inspectors.
 
 Inaugurating the cyber police station,   CEO V Umashankar said, “This is a foundation step into building the city into a smart city. The nature of crime is constantly changing and police also have to catch up with changing times. These are crimes which are not just happening in the city physically but anywhere in the country or in the world,” he said.
 
 Inspector  , the SHO, said earlier data storage devices like hard drives and mobile phones had to be sent to Madhuban forensic laboratory for analysis. “Now, preliminary analysis can be done in Gurugram, and only be sent to Madhuban for the final report. This will speed up the investigation process,” he said. In 
 
 the forensic lab, an EDAS FOX portable machine will be used for digital storage and data analysis, while the mobile analysis system can also be used to circumvent passwords and several encryptions to generate data analysis in order to gather proof for evidence, officials said. 
 
 Five high-end software for creating a digital image of storage, mobile forensics, disc forensics, CDR (call detail record) analysis, and for maintaining hash value (to verify digital data to be used as evidence) have also been provided in the forensic lab, officials said. The lab is equipped to monitor social media as well, the officials added. 
 
 “Around Rs 40 lakh has been spent just on equipment for the police station. The station will soon have a separate magistrate and experts will also be roped in for training and support,” a police officer said.
 
 Police commissioner   said cops have been moved from other positions to the cyber police station. “But it won’t lead to manpower shortage in other police departments as the state government has created more posts which will be replenished as soon as the new batch of cops come into the city, which is likely next month,” he told TOI. Apart 
 
 from senior police officers, high-ranking executives of real estate giant DLF were also present at the launch. DLF donated the building to Gurugram police.
 
 
