PORVORIM: Chief minister  , on Wednesday, said that “sharing of   waters (with  ) is inevitable” as the river passes through three states and that anyone thinking to the contrary is “living in fool’s paradise”. 

 Replying to queries on the Mhadei issue at the cabinet press briefing, Parrikar said his letter to senior Karnataka BJP leader B S Yeddyurappa is very clear. “My letter says I’m ready to talk, but within the parameters of the Mhadei tribunal.”
 
 Maintaining that each of the three states through which the Mhadei river passes has “some right to a share of the waters”, Parrikar said that the question before the tribunal was whether the Mhadei water basin is water deficit or not. Parrikar said the state has produced documentary evidence to show that the Mhadei water basin is deficit and as such its waters cannot be diverted.
 
 The diversion of Mhadei waters to another basin “is not part of my discussion” Parrikar said when pointed out that 24 NGOs have joined hands in demanding that he withdraw his letter to Yeddyurappa.
 
 “I have made my stand clear time and again,” the CM said, adding that no NGO has approached him. “I have not received a single letter from them (NGOs). I will write to them. There is a huge difference between what they are saying and what I have written in my letter,” Parrikar said.
 
 “I had called Rajendra Kerkar for a meeting to assure him that Goa’s interest will not be comprised. So also Nirmala Sawant,” said Parrikar. 
 
 On the letter received from Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah, Parrikar said that it is a “completely different letter” and has nothing to do with what he wrote to Yeddyurappa. “It talks about tri-party agreement, and seeks discussion for diversion of Mhadei river to other basins,” Parrikar said, adding that he has forwarded the letter to the water resource department “to analyse”. 
 
 Parrikar said that though his letter is “completely valid and in the interest of the state”, some sections, media included, have interpreted it in their own way.
 
 I have taken enough precautions in my letter to ensure that Goa’s interest in not compromised, he added.
 
 Parrikar said that most water augmentation schemes were initiated during his tenure. “No projects were taken during the Congress regime. The ‘bhandaras’, including those built on Mhadei river were constructed during my tenure. I know the issue, though I’m not an expert.”
 
 Parrikar also said that in keeping with the 2014 court order, work on the Kalsa-Bandura canal project was stopped.
 
 
