MADURAI: The Kurangani police in Theni district have been directed not to arrest Peter Van  , a trekking organiser, till April 12, in connection with a case in which 22 people died due to forest fire at the Kurangani forest in Theni.

 Justice G   of the Madras high court Madurai bench on Thursday who heard the anticipatory bail petition moved by Geit from Belgium also directed the police to file a counter to the case and adjourned the hearing. 
 
 The fire accident that occurred on March 11 has so far claimed the lives of 23 people. One more person, Swetha, 29, succumbed to burns at a corporate hospital in Chennai. The woman’s death has pushed the death toll in forest fire accident to 23. Apprehending arrest in the hands of police, Geit filed an advance bail petition. 
 
 When the case came up for hearing, the petitioner’s counsel submitted that the petitioner has not committed any offence as alleged by the police. But, he was being sought to be fixed and framed as a scapegoat just because he is a foreigner with no roots in the country. 
 
 The petitioner was not the organiser for trekking and sightseeing of either of the teams from Chennai or Erode. The team led by informant Prabhu from   was his Facebook friends. The Chennai team was organised as a women’s day special trek by Divya Muthukumar and Nisha Tamiloli who invited participants from Chennai Trekking Club through e-mail. 
 
 The petitioner is in India on yearly employment visa since 1998. He is a marathon runner and trekking activist and is one of the trustees of the Chennai Trekking Club (CTC). Because of his active and selfless involvement in various social activities he is known as a key person in the CTC. 
 
 He participated in three-day marathon event from Chennai to   that started on March 9. He was in no way connected to the trekking event. 
 
 Based on false information, police have come to a conclusion that the petitioner is solely responsible for the loss of lives. There is a chance for him to be treated badly in the event of his arrest. Hence, he might be given anticipatory bail, the counsel said. 
 
 The government counsel sought time to file a counter to the case.
 
 Following it, the court granted time till April 12 and said that the police would not arrest him till then. 
 
 
