KOLKATA: The   (KMC), which is the custodian of the trees in the city, has claimed the paving of tree trunks to advertise brands was done without its permission. The issue assumes significance following a study that revealed that several trees that were uprooted in Tuesday’s squall had been paved with concrete and glazed tiles around the base.

 After letters from an environment action group to the municipal commissioner in January did not elicit a response, it filed an   on the issue.DG (parks and squares) has stated that the structures at the base of trees were not constructed by the department, nor was permission issued to anyone to build the structures or advertise any brand.
 
 Bonani   of Public, the action group that has been pursuing the matter, is livid. “Trees are public property and acity’s asset. How can someone use them to advertise brands? The KMC is claiming it has no idea how it happened, but it is hard to believe the trees were usurped all over the city without its knowledge,” she said.
 
 Trees have been paved all over central and south Kolkata, including Jawaharlal Nehru Road, Theatre Road, Rawdon Street, Loudon Street, Ashutosh Mukherjee Road and Ballygunge Circular Road. Initially, a knitwear firm, a company manufacturing water storage tanks and a cafe had put up advertisements on them. But after Public took up the matter with KMC, the tank firm and cafe have removed their names. However, more such tree bases have been paved since then, prominently displaying the knitwear company’s name.
 
 Kakkar says she doesn’t know why, even three months after it was brought to its notice, the KMC has refused to demolish the structures.
 
 “We are truly baffled as to why this is being allowed to continue when it is common knowledge that you allow a concrete-free area around the base of the tree so that rainwater seeps in and the root system is allowed to strengthen,” pointed out Kakkar.
 
 Naba Datta of  , an umbrella organisation with multiple green action groups under its fold, says KMC’s action, or inaction, is criminal given the uprooting of such trees during Tuesday’s squall. “KMC claimed it has no knowledge of who concretized the bases. But it has done nothing to stop the encroachment of public space and destruction of public property,” he said.
 
 The chairman of the knitwear firm whose brand has been advertised on the paved tree bases said he was not aware of who had done it or why.
 
