Visakhapatnam: Thousands of   in   district are suffering from vision problems, say district officials. 

 According a preliminary study, the first of its kind in Andhra Pradesh initiated by Srikakulam district collector K Dhanunjaya Reddy, nearly 10,000 to 12,000 schoolchildren studying from Class I to Class X in all 3,400 government schools in the district are suffering from minor to major eyesight problems.
 
 While some students suffer nearsightedness of below `minus 1’ to ‘minus 4’, others suffer from farsightedness ranging from ‘plus 1 to plus 3’.
 
 According to VVL Narasimha Rao, superintendent of Government Regional Eye Hospital for north-coastal districts, nearly 25-30% of every 100 schoolchildren are currently suffering from vision problems.
 
 Earlier, the percentage was limited to 10-15, but now it has gone up to 25-30% due to usage of electronic gadgets like smartphones, laptops, and tablets besides a reduced level of natural immunity in the body, Rao told TOI.
 
 “Parents should take utmost care and do all they can at home in order to prevent their children from suffering from such vision problems from a tender age,” Rao said.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Srikakulam collector Reddy said that parents in rural areas and the parents who send their children to the government schools are not able to requisite care of the children particularly on the vision problems.
 
 “After observing the vision problems of the students of some schools in my district, I decided to screen all four lakh schoolchildren in the government schools. Based on the preliminary screening report, we have estimated that the nearly 10000 to 12000 students need eye-wears and some of them require eye surgeries,” Reddy said.
 
 Reddy further added that they would take second level of screening by sending the children to the nearby ophthalmologist to get a better report. The procurement of eye-wears and other supporting measures like eye surgeries would be taken by the district administration by using District Mineral Funds (DMF).
 
 “Nearly Rs 50.5 lakh is required to procure the eye wears to the children,” Reddy said. By end of this academic year, the screening process would be completed and by beginning of next academic year 2018-19 all the identified children would be given the spectacles at free of cost besides medical treatment from the government, Reddy said.
 
 “Our sole objective is none of the government schoolchildren in the district suffer from vision problems in reading books and reading letters on board in the classroom,” Reddy signed off.
 
 
