CHENNAI: In the 2016   assembly election, the   spent Rs 1 crore just for procuring visor hats with the party symbol printed on them. The party’s audited accounts submitted to the   show it got poorer by nearly Rs 82 crore in 2016-17 as it received only Rs 4 crore from various sources, but spent Rs 86 crore. It remitted more than Rs5 lakh in I-T, but as the expenditure was more than earnings, the party has sought refund. Similarly, the   spent Rs 87 crore against Rs 49 crore in earnings.

 The DMK’s primary source of income was interest accruals from bank deposits. In the last financial year, the party earned Rs3 crore in the form of interests. The party had earnings from membership fees collection as well as money paid by candidates for securing party seats in the elections.
 
 
 On the expenditure front, the party spent the maximum of Rs45 crore on elections. This is followed by Rs 37 crore spent on advertisements and propaganda. The party spent Rs 15 lakh on getting mufflers and dhothis for its workers. The party spent Rs 43 lakh for the cancelled local body elections.
 
 The value of land and building, if any, at district headquarters and income thereon and expenditure related to that, said to be under district units of the party, was not recorded in the books maintained at the party headquarters owing to lack of details from district units, DMK chartered accountant V   said in the audited accounts.
 
 The AIADMK’s main income last year was money received from party functionaries and workers for the local body elections. It received Rs35 crore for the cancelled local body elections. It had earnings from the membership drive also. The AIADMK spent the maximum - about Rs50 crore - on advertisements. Unlike the DMK, the AIADMK accounts do not show details of various expenses. The party has also sought a nominal refund from the income tax department.
 
 The   received more than Rs 3 crore income and spent about Rs63 lakh more than that. Much of its expenditure was towards party administration.
 
 The DMDK is the only party which spent less than what it earned. It recorded more than Rs 4 crore excess income in the accounts despite spending Rs 1 crore towards elections.
 
