PATNA: The Centre’s decision to stop   subsidy to Muslims has evoked mixed response in the state with some supporting the central government’s move with riders while others keeping mum on the issue.

 As many as 6,983 Muslims against the quota for 10,000 from Bihar went on haj last year. Over 5,000 applications have been received till now for the current year and over 2,000 have already been processed. 
 
 The Centre’s decision appears to have definitely queered the pitch for political parties on the matter, as it has seemingly put them on a slippery ground. The RJD, which has strong support in the Muslim community, slammed the Centre on cancellation of haj subsidy.
 
 However, the JD(U) maintained that it would reveal its formal standpoint only after broad consultations both within the party and outside it. “The matter has to be first discussed threadbare in the inner circle of the party,” a state JD(U) spokesman said.
 
 State RJD spokesman Chitranajan Gagan, however, said the Centre should not have cancelled the haj subsidy at one go. “It was a huge assistance for the poor people who wanted to go to Saudi Arabia on pilgrimage. It is not just the rich who go on this pilgrimage,” he said.
 
 As the Centre took this decision in response to the Supreme Court order in 2012, Gagan added, “Everyone should respect the apex court order. But the withdrawal of subsidy has come suddenly. It should have been done gradually.”
 
 He also said there was no guarantee to the expenditure of the equivalent amount of subsidy amount on the uplift of the poor Muslims as Union minister for minority welfare Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi had maintained on Tuesday.
 
 Former Rajya Sabha member and All India United Muslim Morcha (AIUMM) president Ejaj Ali supported the Centre’s move, but said the subsidy money should be spent on the education of dalit Muslims and also on their economic uplift. “It is a bold and right step,” Ali said.
 
 He said PM Jawaharlal Nehru had thwarted the economic and educational uplift of the dalit Muslims by not extending them reservation benefits. Ali also maintained that it is mostly rich Muslims who go on haj pilgrimage.
 
 
