MEERUT: The   ( ) on Tuesday issued notices to ministry of environment and forests, National Board for Wildlife, National Biodiversity Authority and forest department of Uttar Pradesh seeking a report on the steps taken to protect wildlife in   Wildlife Sanctuary.
 
  Taking cognizance of a petition filed by environmentalist and advocate Gaurav Bansal, a bench headed by acting NGT chairperson Justice Jawad Rahim issued notices to the above authorities while seeking their reply before July 23.
  
 The green tribunal took the step in response to a PIL filed on the basis of a Wildlife Institute of India (WII) report that had stated that endangered species like swamp deer and hog deer were at risk due to high human presence and forest fires in the sanctuary.
  
 The report further stated, “A large proportion of Hastinapur sanctuary lies within very high human use area. Instead of diluting efforts in managing a large wildlife sanctuary that is predominantly under human use, management interventions should focus on intensively managing these identified critical wildlife habitats.”
  
 In his petition, Bansal said, “The applicant has learnt from the Red List of threatened species generated by the   and Natural resources published on January 10, 2015 that the population of swamp deer (barasingha) is assessed as vulnerable because the estimated total population lies between 3,500 and 5,100 animals and also its protection status is not secure.”
  
 The petitioner went on to add, “Hastinapur wildlife sanctuary is one of the most important sanctuaries spread around river Ganga but I must say it is the most neglected as well. There is too much of human interference leaving little room for animals to thrive. Man-animal conflict is rampant and WII report has only authenticated the problem in the area.”
  
 Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary in Uttar Pradesh is spread over an area of 2,073 sq km encompassing Bijnor, Amroha, Muzaffarnagar,   and Hapur forest divisions. Vast tracts of this sanctuary lie within high human use area. The flagship species of the sanctuary, swamp deer, continues to inhabit suitable habitats within Hastinapur. A survey was carried out during 2017 and 2018 to identify critical swamp deer and other wildlife habitats in the sanctuary.
 
 The sanctuary has over 14 species of mammals and several reptiles including crocodile and gharial.
