RAJKOT: A ceramic unit worker fr-om Morbi was arrested on Tuesd-ay for allegedly   and smashing her face with a boulder before burying her body under rocks in the hilly region of Chotila in Surendranagar district, about 100km from here.

 Premji Jayram Gohel (35), resident of Shivparakh Society on Jetpur Road in Morbi, was arrested by the Chotila police on Tuesday after he allegedly confessed to having killed his wife Kamla Gohel (33) over domestic dispute. Gohel in his statement accused Kamla, a mother of two daughters (six-year-old and 2.5-year-old), of harassing his parents and also suspected her of having an affair.
 
 Kamla’s body with a completely smashed face was found buried under rocks in the deserted area on   on Sunday. A man from Nanvagam village saw the body and informed village sarpanch Pankaj Chauhan, who called the police. A complaint was registered against unknown persons and probe began to ascertain identity of the woman.
 
 Meanwhile, as the message spread across police stations, Morbi taluka police reverted to Chotila police saying they had received a complaint of a missing woman that matched the description of the body found. The missing woman had a tattoo of words ‘PK’ written in English on her hand. 
 
 Police informed Premji, who had filed a missing complaint of his wife on January 25. He identified the woman as his wife, who had left the house with some money. Suspecting something fishy in his story, police checked his mobile phone records and found that he was in Thangadh, about 25km from Chotila and from the place where the body was found on January 24. On further grilling, Premji confessed to killing Kamla.
 
 Premji told police Kamla had been demanding a gold necklace since last 15 days and harassing him and his parents. Frustrated with the constant nagging and other issues, Premji decided to eliminate her. He took her to Chotila on January 24 to offer prayers at Jariya Mahadev temple and on their way back he allegedly stopped the car at a deserted place and strangled Kamla to death with a plastic rope and smashed her face with a big stone. After returning home, Premji lodged the missing complaint on January 25.
 
 
