CHENNAI: On Sunday, Southern Railway finished upgrading the   yard by straightening tracks, commissioning a new electronic interlocked signal system and extending two platforms-a work that was pending for 10 years, and which will eventually improve train speeds and benefit people. However, it is unlikely that passengers will see it in positive light, as they bore the brunt of erratic and chaotic train services between Chennai and Bengaluru, Kerala and Coimbatore over the last few days of work.

 
  
  
 
 Railway insiders say there has been poor planning and execution of the work; some are discontent, for despite their hard work, the public has not got the right message. For instance, premier trains like the Mysuru-Chennai Shatabdi and some trains to Coimbatore were cancelled over the weekend in the last minute. On Saturday, it was announced that the Chennai-Coimbatore Cheran Express for Sunday was cancelled. But 24 hours later, railway sent a release that it was not cancelled.
 
 On Sunday, a girl from Kerala missed her NEET exam in Chennai as Chennai Mail was delayed by 5 hours. Through the week, many trains bound for Chennai were detained outside   and Arakkonam, sometimes for hours, with passengers complaining about lack of water in toilets and no food to eat. On Saturday, it worsened with passengers on some trains from Bengaluru having no clarity of when their train would depart from Katpadi.
 
 At some stations, bus operators were seen haggling with stranded passengers about rates for tickets to Chennai.
 
 “There has been complete lack of communication. Railway officials should have had consultations with local residents in   and Arakkonam. We would have helped by chipping in with suggestions,” said  , member of Divisional Rail Users Consultative Committee, an interface between passengers and the railways.
 
 Cancellation of suburban services to suit work operations meant that many from the suburbs could not get a train to Central, to take express trains. T Sadagopan, a senior citizen from Pattabiram, spent ?400 on a cab to drop his wife in Centralon Friday to take the double-decker Express.
 
 Internal disagreements resulted in express trains not being given a temporary stoppage at Tiruvallur, which is inbetween Chennai and Arakkonam. From Thursday night, a temporary one minute stoppage was given, but no official announcement was made.
 
 Defending the poor communication, Chennai divisional railway manager (DRM) Naveen Gulati said extensive publicity had been given through social media, media briefings and even at stations and that feedback has been largely positive. “Passenger associations are well aware of the work,” he said. When asked why they were not taken into confidence earlier, he said policy decisions cannot be formed in an open forum.
 
 “Maybe media could have played a bigger role in explaining the benefit of the works,” Gulati said.
 
