PUNE: Two Thai women forced into prostitution were rescued on Tuesday night from a spa and massage parlour in a mall on the Bibvewadi-Kondhwa Road, exposing the clandestine operation of sex rackets involving foreign nationals at unconventional places.

 A team of the Market Yard police headed by senior inspector Mohan Shinde and inspector   raided the spa and arrested two persons, working as pimps for the rescued Thai women. “We have arrested   (30) and   (30), both hailing from Manipur and settled in Koregaon Park here,” Deshmukh said.
 
 The duo were running the spa for the past two-three months, he said. They had hired the place on rent. “We have seized a large number of condoms from the spa,” Deshmukh said.
 
 This is the fifth instance of Thai women being rescued in the past four months.
 
 Acting on a tip-off, the police team raided the parlour and the two women were found. “One of the women is 41-year-old and the other is 35,” Deshmukh said. They came to India on tourist visas in September, 2016.
 
 “The women informed the police that they landed in Mumbai from Bangkok, following which they were shifted to Pune,” he said. A case has been filed under the provisions of Immoral Traffic Prevention Act against the arrested men.
 
 On Saturday, the social security cell of the city crime branch had rescued four women from Thailand from a spa and massage parlour at Mukundnagar off Pune-Satara Road. The Yerawada police had rescued five Thai women from a spa at Kalyaninagar, where they were forced into flesh trade.
 
 Many rescued women told the police that their monthly salary was Rs20,000-25,000. The salary is minimal and so they are forced into prostitution by the spa or massage parlour owners. “These women get extra perks for attending to the ‘customers’,” said senior police inspector   of the social security cell.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police, Foreigners’ Registration Office (FRO),  , said, “These women are victims.” After obtaining a report from the police station or the crime branch concerned, the FRO prepares report of these women.
 
 “So far, we have sent back 16 women to Thailand after they were rescued from different spas and massage parlours. We have blacklisted these women before repatriating them,” Singh said.
 
 
