Long before Raazi’s ‘humanising the enemy’ narrative was accepted by the audience, one of its actors,  , who left Kashmir in the   of 1990, had learnt that understanding the other side is far bigger for your own growth than hating it. He tells us how doing theatre and working with students from conflict zones like Syria and Palestine has put his own community’s suffering in perspective, and why when he visits Kashmir today, he talks of inclusiveness and not conflict.

  
 
 
  I just came from the   recently. Ten days, I was in the Valley for an event which was to bring communities together. I have been very vocal and I told people – main Kashmir mein bolta hoon, Delhi mein bhi bolta hoon, aur London mein bhi; I don’t change my tone.
 
 
  
  Ashwath plays a Pakistani Major in 'Raazi
 
  
 
  Yes, they come to Delhi and say one thing and go back to Kashmir and say something else. They say one thing in Kulgam and one thing in Pattan and one thing in  . I said to people there that two things concern me a lot as far as Kashmir goes. First, if there has to be reconciliation, there has to be truth. And truth of both sides, not one way. Har cheez ke do pehloo hote hain jeevan mein. Yeh shayad mujhe theatre ne sikhaya hai ki har character black and white nahi hai. Grey bhi hai life mein kuch. So, I talk a lot about it – truth and reconciliation. The second thing I said is, what am I giving to my next generation? One generation is already gone. Chhote-chhote bachchon ki buses par pathar maar rahe hain log. Kaun sensible, samajhdar aadmi bachchon ki bus par pathar maarega? Mujhe yeh bahut hurt karta hai. Koi bhi mazhab ka ho, bachcha hai, usko main pathar maar raha hoon. It makes me uncomfortable and destroys me mentally. Toh yeh maine Kashmir mein kaha, ki yeh do cheezein soch lena aap, jo kar rahe hain hum log. Yes, I want to be in my hometown, I want people to come, whosoever wants to go and whosoever wants to live wherever. But the second thing is, what are you giving to the next generation? Main Kashmir 2006 se jaa raha hoon. Main England se aaya and then I have been regularly going for research; I wrote a film, ‘Lamhaa’, and at different points, I had different encounters. Main Hizb ke militant se le kar ek chhote se ex-militant tak sabse mila hoon. I am making a documentary as well. It’s called ‘The Other Half Of Paradise’.
 
  
  
  
 
  Yes. Mujhe uss par bhi gaaliyan padi. ‘Kashmiri Pandit hote hue tumne Kashmiri Panditon ko koi line nahi di’ was a point of view. Maine kaha, yaar, tum meri integrity par question mat karo na yaar. Main koi balancing act wala aadmi nahi hoon. Aise toh Vishal Bhardwaj se bhi yeh sawal poocha gaya tha   ke time par. Vishal ji se meri baat hui thi. He said, ‘Ashwath, isme kitne point of view hain Kashmir ke. Aap ek film mein har cheez cover nahi kar sakte ho. Mera yeh apna point of view hai’. 
 Kya hai ki sachai kadwi hai Kashmir ki. Koi sachai na sunna chahta hai, na bolna chahta hai. Agar hum sach bolenge toh sab cheezein theek ho jayengi, lekin sach itna kadwa hai ki koi sunna hi nahi chahta hai. 
 Aap kisi se baat bhi karte hain imaandari se and you want to help people, woh kehte hain aap kis agency se hain? Arre bhai main kisi agency se nahi hoon, na main press ka hoon. There is a trust deficit now in Kashmir.
 
 
 
 
  No, now I think the audience has grown. Maturity aayi hai. Ab unko lagta hai acting kar raha hai yeh. When Anupam Kher can play a character that is almost Geelani, what’s wrong with me playing a Pakistani Major?
  I did ‘Phantom’ also with Kabir Khan. I asked him in the first meeting, what is your vision. He said look Ashwath, everybody is doing their job. RAW is doing its job and ISI is doing its job and I want to show ki uss job ke dauran yeh kahaani chalti hai – the killing of Hafiz Saeed – joh movie mein dikhaate hain. Maine kaha khwaab achha hai. Film mein hi poora kar lijiye. Lekin jab woh film aayi, kya hua usme? They (ISI) create havoc in half of the subcontinent and we treat them like idiots. In films, we show that they don’t have brains. They’re not idiots.
 
  
  Ashwath in Kashmir during 'Haider’s' shoot
 
  
 
 
  Yes, because we make everyone we don’t like a demon. It doesn’t work like that. Everybody is human. We also have skeletons in our cupboard. If you look at films, jab Kargil hua toh suddenly you had patriotic films, with ‘Doodh maangoge toh kheer denge, Kashmir maangoge toh cheer denge’, because that catered to people. ‘Gadar’ hua toh hand pump nikaal kar Pakistan ko aapne hila diya. It doesn’t happen like that. 
 
  I’ve researched a lot for’ Raazi’. I saw Pakistani Army videos because koi reference hai hi nahi uske alawa. Fortunately, I must be the only actor – or a rare actor – who had dinner in a Pakistani cantt. I was a guest of DG Lahore Shabbir Ahmad sahab (Director General of Parks and Horticulture Authority, Lahore, between 2003 and 2006) in 2004. I was working with a German (theatre) company at that time and we were supposed to tour South Asia. Uski recce ke liye main aaya tha. My passport says I’m not supposed to go there but I’m sitting there with Shabbir Ahmad sahab. Shayad kismat mein tha ki ek din Pakistan Army ka Major play karoonga. 
 Also, the way Meghna has dealt with ‘Raazi’, it’s very human. Sehmat went as a spy but she didn’t intend to harm anyone. She intends to get things done for her own watan. She is told ki ek din tumhe zaroorat pad jaaye aur kisi ko maarna pade... But then, what is driving her is that it’s all for the nation. By the end, she is totally heartbroken; she is gone, only alive physically.So, it’s not the story of India-Pakistan but of a human being, the lowest denominator.
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  I have mellowed down. I still have huge anger because my only question was what is my fault that my mother cries 24 hours a day? Neend mein bhi aansoo nikal rahe hote thay. What’s her fault? She has not hurt anybody, harmed anyone. But I’m not angry. I’m not saying sympathise with anybody. Lekin ek cheez hai empathy, jo bahut zaroori hai life mein. That can be for anyone.
 MK Raina, Vir Munshi and I were discussing the other day in Kashmir ki artist chahiye. Moti Lal Kemmu ji (noted playwright and Kunal Kemmu’s grandfather) also passed away recently. Woh guru thay hamare. Unka bhi yahi concern tha till his death – ki artist paida hona chahiye community mein. Jis community mein artist marr jayega, uss community mein kuch nahi bacha. Writers nahi paida honge, thinkers nahi paida honge, painters, sculptors – we need people who have diverse backgrounds. For me, what is more important is aapne language bachaya apna? Who was stopping you from saving your language? Who was stopping you from saving your culture, or telling your children – the next generation –ki beta, Kashmiri mein thoda-bahut baat kar lo. 
 
  
 
 
  Mere saare relations waise hi hain. Aaj bhi unhi Musalmaan gharon mein jaata hoon. Unko mama tab bhi bolta tha, aaj bhi bolta hoon, unki beti ko main behen bolta hoon. Gaya toh hospital se doctor le kar gaya unke liye. ‘Raazi’ ke time par main gaya toh unko le kar gaya. Jinhone mera ghar jalaya main unse bhi mila, chai bhi pi unke saath baith kar. Our old neighbours told me that our carpet is in another neighbour’s house – uss par namaaz padhta hai woh. My father said a very amazing line, he said ki uss aadmi ko sochna hai ki kya uss kaleen pe woh jo namaaz padhega, woh qubool hogi? 
 Hamare yahan duniya aati thi – India se, baahar se bhi because my grandfather was a big name – Dwarka Nath Bhatt. He had so much faith that he said sabka ghar jalaa sakte hain, mera nahi jalaa sakte. But yeh joh saari cheezein hain... mujhe yahi lagta hai ghoom-phir kar ki shukr karo hum Syria mein nahi hain iss samay. Aap Iraq mein nahi ho. ‘Hamare saath ye hua’ – khatm karo yeh narrative. Inclusive banaiye na.
 
 
