Chandigarh: Haryanvi youths are so desperate to join the armed forces that they are resorting to fudging their mark details or passing off others’ documents as theirs. Fed-up with frequent cases of such fraud resorted to by aspirants, the Army authorities have procured an ultra-violet document analyser — a device that helps in detecting if the mark sheet is genuine.

 The Army had to procure the device after a large number of mark sheets of successful candidates were found fake after the selection process got over. The machine, used for the first time in October 2017,
 
 helps in verifying the genuineness of mark sheets issued by the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) and the Central Board of School Education (CBSE). It helps in checking the water marks of the mark sheets, signatures of the authorities and other identification marks used by the concerned boards.
 
 The officials with the Army’s recruitment offices told TOI that they also remain in touch with the concerned boards to know the pattern of the mark sheets issued by them during a particular period.
 
 There have been many cases where aspirants were found to have used forged or coloured zerox copies of detailed mark sheets of other persons to take part in the recruitment process.
 
 Colonel A K Pillai, director, Army Recruiting Office (ARO), Charkhi Dadri, said that the machine is extremely helpful for them, as they are now able to weed out those using fake documents at the very first stage.
 
 “Earlier many candidates were selected on the basis of fake mark sheets and caught only after they had joined the training centre. It not only wasted precious time and resources involved in selection of a jawan but also deprived other genuine candidates of selection for almost a year. It was then the Army decided to introduce such machines for AROs in Haryana”, Pillai added.
 
 Besides such device, the AROs have also introduced multiple tests to detect if candidates have used performance enhancers in the recruitment rallies. Similarly, water and tamper-proof hand bands have also been introduced by the authorities to prevent fudging of any data pertaining to the physical or medical examination by an aspirant. Earlier permanent markers were used.
 
 “The young candidates in Haryana are extremely desperate to get into the Army. Every time they come out with new ideas to cheat the process. We have to think ahead of them and that is why there is scanner for almost every part of Army recruitment in Haryana,” said Col Pillai.
 
 
