ALWAR: Three of family, including an eight-year-old girl, was killed after the taxi in which they were travelling lost control in dense fog and fell into a pond in Deeg area of   district late Monday night. The deceased were residents of Alwar and returning from a pilgrimage to Sonagiri in  .

 According to Bharatpur police, the accident took place near Deeg when the driver of was negotiating dense smoke and uneven road on the highway. At about 12.15 AM, the driver lost control over the vehicle and it plunged into a pond located adjacent to the road.
 
 The deceased have been identified as   (36) a resident of Shikaripada area of Alwar city, his wife   (33), and their daughter Pari Jain (8). Pawan’s sister   (34) a resident of Ramgarh in Alwar, was also killed in the accident.
 
 Five persons are currently undergoing treatment at Alwar’s   Government Hospital. According to the police, the two families were returning after completing a pilgrimage in Madhya Pradesh. They were passing through the limits of Deeg police station in Bharatpur when the accident took place. The driver reportedly survived the accident.
 
 The villagers managed to rescue five persons and rushed them to the hospital. “The villagers used their tractors and other vehicles to take the cart out of the pond. The taxi had got stuck in the muck,” said an official.
 
 According to relatives, Pawan Jain owned a hardware and report shop in Alwar. Miraculously, the villagers saved the life of Pawan’s nine-year-old son Piyush.
 
 A pall of gloom descended upon the Shikaripada locality of Alwar after report of the accident spread across the city quickly. Pawan Jain’s father Giraj Prasad Jain (78) was inconsolable when he looked at the bodies of his son, daughter-in-law and gran-daughter.
 
 Both Giraj and his wife Nagina Jain are heart patients and had bouts of unconsciousness when they learned of the mishap. “We were a happy family, last time when I last spoke to my son he replied that he will be back by 4 am,” Giraj told TOI.
 
 
