Trichy: The state highways department has planned to widen the stretch of the much congested Thanjavur Main Road from Palpannai junction to Rettaivaikal bridge, a long-pending demand by road users and local people in Mahalakshmi Nagar and Viswas Nagar. A contractor was identified to do the work after floating a tender in this regard. Official sources said that the road widening would commence in a couple of weeks.

 The road serves as a vital link between the interior localities such as Thennur and Thillai Nagar and outskirts like Palpannai and Ariyamangalam. The junction point of the road, where Chennai-Trichy National Highways and Trichy-Thanjavur National Highways intersect, has been handling heavy volume of vehicles that the space could not handle. Branching off from Gandhi Market, the road that goes on till Palapannai junction was plagued by encroachments mostly by the traders who put up their stocks and advertisement boards on the road. Official sources with the highways department said that a contractor was identified to do the widening works. Out of the 2.2-km stretch, the highways department has planned to widen the 800-metre stretch between Palpannai junction and Rettaivaikal Bridge. “A much needed move. It would be great if the officials crack whip against the encroaching traders,” Syed Ajmal, a resident of Viswas Nagar, said.
 
 While the actual width of Thanjavur Main Road varies between 9m and 15m, the proposed widening works will increase the width of the stretch by 1 to 3metres. “The widening work will be carried out in a total outlay of Rs 2 crore. Storm water drain will also be set up along with the project,” a senior official with the state highways department said. Meanwhile, officials said that the 900-metre road widening work taken up by the department on Race Course Road near Khajamalai would conclude in a month.
 
 Residents, while welcoming the widening work, sought the authorities to keep a constant check on encroachments on the stretch to decongest the mounting traffic. Besides the local people, the widening of the stretch will be beneficial to the tourists from Coimbatore and Karur districts who take the Thanjavur Main Road to travel to Thanjavur and other delta districts.
 
 
