PATNA: The state   on Monday was surprised by the open critical stance of senior JD(U) functionaries towards the Centre under PM Narendra  , as they have raked up the demand for special category status to   and made veiled projection of CM Nitish Kumar as “PM material”, with Nitish himself clarifying his stand on the core ideological concerns of the saffron party.

 The instances of sudden gear change and visible sharp turns taken by the JD(U) has left the state BJP rank and file visibly surprised. Their confusion has been compounded as quite a few RJD MLAs like Bhai Birendra and Vijay Prakash said their party would support the JD(U) if it pressed for the grant of special category status to Bihar.
 
 “What the JD(U) functionaries are saying is their party’s internal matter. Every party has its own agenda to shore up its image and reach to people,” said state BJP spokesman and former MLA Prem Ranjan Patel, adding the Congress-led UPA did nothing for Bihar, even with regard to special assistance which, however, was given by PM Modi. 
 
 Curiously, CM Nitish has taken the matter a notch high. On Sunday, JD(U) national president Nitish, while campaigning for his party’s candidate Mahima Patel in Channagiri assembly constituency in Karnataka, said he was opposed to the “politics of confrontation” and the use of a language that debases political discourse. “It is not in national interest,” Nitish said, adding he was against “three Cs — corruption, crime and communalism”.
 
 Nitish, who heads the   government in Bihar, also pointed out that the JD(U) has been against the imposition of uniform civil code in the country and supports Article 370 in the Constitution.
 
 Further, on the issue of triple talaq, Nitish said his party has made its position clear before the law commission. He described Karnataka as the developed state, but added that it was plagued by corruption.
 
 However, on Saturday, at an all-party meet held in   to discuss the issues related to the 15th Finance Commission from the viewpoint of Bihar, JD(U) general secretary and Rajya Sabha member R C P Singh noted that his party’s long-standing demand for special category status to Bihar had not yet materialized. He had also endorsed the recommendations of the Raghuram Rajan committee under the UPA-II that Bihar was a backward state that needed special assistance.
 
 Besides, JD(U) MLC Ghulam Rasool Baliyawi said on Monday it would be better for the state if the “key of the country” remained with Bihar, implying that CM Nitish was a PM material and, therefore, well placed to play a big role in national politics.
 
 It did not go well with the state BJP. Its spokesman Azfar Shamsi shot back, “The key of the country is in the proper hand (read PM Modi). The situation will not change even in 2019.”
 
 
