PATNA: The Patna University Students’ Union ( ) election at all the 46 booths located at 14 centres passed off peacefully on Saturday. The voters’ turnout was only about 42.5%.

 There were 19,870 voters and only 8,458 of them cast their votes.   had the maximum (81%) and Patna Women’s College the minimum (22%) voters’ turnout.
 
 Also, only 31% of the electorates turned up at   where there was some disturbance in the beginning owing to a clash between the students and the supporters of some candidates.
 
 PU students’ welfare dean   said Patna College, Women’s Training College and Patna Science College witnessed a fair turnout where the polling percentage was reported to be 68, 66 and 60% respectively. The polling percentage was around 60% in Patna Law College, 46% in B   and nearly 55% in the faculties of science, social science and humanities, he said.
 
 Even though the polling commenced at 8am, several enthusiastic students had turned up at different booths at least half an hour earlier as they wanted to have their first experience of participating in electoral politics.
 
 “I have never voted in any election so far. So, I am quite excited to cast my vote in the students’ union election,” said a BSc honours student of Patna Science College.
 
 A B N College teacher said the voters’ turnout increased considerably around 11am.
 
 There was heavy police deployment at every booth and no student or even polling staff was allowed to enter the polling centres without showing their identity cards.
 
 The university had arranged for videography of the entire election process at all the booths. Candidates or their authorized representatives remained present during the sealing of ballot boxes.
 
 PU vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad Singh, registrar Rabindra Kumar, students’ welfare dean N K Jha, proctor G K Palei and election committee chief P   visited different booths and supervised the smooth conduct of election.
 
 The counting of votes for five key offices of the union commenced at about 4pm at the examination hall of Patna Science College under tight security arrangements. Counting of votes for council membership was completed at the polling centres. 
 
 
