AHMEDABAD: The State Human Rights Commission ( ) of   has junked a plea filed by a retired law professor from Mehsana, Ashwin Karia, because he did not file an affidavit in support of the plea. Karia had sought an inquiry into an elderly woman’s death due to cold, who allegedly had to sleep in the open as the Vadodara Municipal Corporation demolished her residence.

 Karia had in January filed the application seeking the inquiry regarding media reports stating that a 50-year-old woman had died in Vadodara. The SHRC directed him to file an affidavit in February, to which, Karia had replied that there is no such provision of filing affidavit by an applicant, and the commission should have rather asked the state to furnish details of the incident.
 
 Karia’s complaint said that the women identified as   (50), whose house at   in   was demolished by Vadodara Municipal Corporation on January 3, had died on January 9. Solanki’s family members had then alleged that she had died from cold as she had to sleep in the open.
 
 Karia had on April 15 received a letter from the commission informing him that his plea was closed. The letter sent by SHRC reads, “With regard to your plea dated January 14, 2018, the state human rights commission had asked you to file affidavit in this regard but you did not file any affidavit. This seems that you do not have any interest in this issue so your application is disposed off.”
 
 When contacted, Karia said that Gujarat has the weakest SHRC as compared to other states like Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra where the commissions had made stringent directions in cases of human rights violation. “It is the duty of SHRC to ask the state administration to conduct probe in the issue but the commission has miserably failed in performing its duty,” said Karia.
 
 SHRC member M H Shah was not available for his comment on the issue.
 
 A rights activist, Kaushik Parmar, said that there are instances where the commission had taken suo-motu cognizance in issues like ripening of mangoes through carbide and also in the case of dilapidated condition of a bus stop. “The SHRC must take suo-motu action in such cases or it should at least order the state administration to conduct inquiry into the case,”   said. 
 
 
 While inquiring into complaints of violations of human rights the SHRC may call for information or report from the central government or any state government or any other authority or organization subordinate thereto within such time as may be specified by it; provided that if the information or report is not received within the time stipulated by the commission, it may proceed to inquire into the complaint on its own. On the other hand, if, on receipt of information or report, the commission is satisfied either that no further inquiry is required or that the required action has been initiated or taken by the concerned government or authority, it may not proceed with the complaint and inform the complainant accordingly. 
 
 
 
