PATNA: The announcement by Union HRD minister   to reduce the NCERT syllabus by half from the new academic session has been welcomed by students, but criticised by teachers in Patna.

 In a   interview on Saturday last,   said the school syllabus was more than that of BA and BCom courses, and it needed to be reduced by half so that students got time for other activities for their all-round development.
 
 Reacting to the announcement,  , a senior mathematics teacher at St Michael’s High School said it would have an adverse impact on students. “I have been teaching classes XI and XII students for 32 years and know that the books they read are not enough to help them prepare for competitive exams. If the already insufficient syllabi are reduced to half, how will students face tougher examinations later,” he asked.
 
 Chemistry teacher Abha Chaudhary also expressed reservations about the decision to cut down the syllabus in schools. “It’s a competitive world and if students’ base is not strong enough, how will they face the challenges in higher education? The syllabus has already been reduced by almost two-thirds ever since I began teaching,” she said.
 
 Students and their parents, on the contrary, welcomed the Union minister’s decision. Paramjeet Kaur, whose daughter studies in Class V of The Tribhuvan School, told this reporter, “My daughter gets very less time for co-curricular activities as she is overburdened by studies. Many a time, she learns exercises by rote. Most teachers are more concerned about completing the syllabus because it’s too lengthy.”
 
 Another parent, Vikash Singh, whose two sons study in St Karen’s High School and  , said, “It’s good news for parents. Schools should give importance to overall personality development of students.”
 
 According to Loyola High School student Abhilasha, who studies in Class VII, reduction in syllabus would be beneficial for students. “It will lessen the burden of our school bags. After the CBSE removed the Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation, I wondered how I would deal with all the pressure. Now, I’m happy,” she said.
 
 
