PATNA: The   ( ) has demanded from the state government 7.5 acres of land on the Patna airport’s western side and 45 acres of land on its eastern side for extension of the runway as well as development of facilities like isolation bays for grounded flights.

  director Rajender Singh Lahauria said on Tuesday the additional land near Chitkohra rail overbridge on the airport’s eastern side has been sought for installation of a new VHF omnidirectional radio range (VOR). The VOR guides the pilot en route and during arrival and departure.
 
 “The VOR at Patna airport is 20 years old and it needs to be replaced,” Lahauria said.
 
 As for the land on the airport’s western side, Lahauria said the length of the runway would increase by 135 metres if the 7.5 acre land was made available to the AAI. 
 
 The JPNI is marked as one of the most critical airports of the country due to its short runway. It has a runway length of 2,286m, but only 1,677m to 2,072m is available for flights to land or take off because of locational constraints. The clock tower at the main secretariat building is one of the main obstacles for the flights.
 
 Sources said there was little scope for extending the runway as it was constrained by Peer Ali Path (airport road) on the northern side and   railway line on the southern side. 
 
 According to Lahauria, the state government has been requested to divert the airport road to pave way for the  . “A letter demanding the land for extension of runway was issued by our HQ around six months ago. A missive in this regard is likely to be sent by our HQ to the state chief secretary in a few days,” he said.
 
 The airport director said the runway extension would pave the way for installation of more tarmac lights that guide the pilot to establish visual contact with the runway while landing an aircraft. 
 
 “Ideally, the minimum stretch on which tarmac lights should be installed is 420 metres before the runway. However, the tarmac lights at the city airport are installed only on a stretch of 210 metres,” Lahauria said.
 
 
