On March 10, 2011, the hero of the day was  , then 38 years old. The Telangana Joint Action Committee (TJAC) of which the   (TRS) was the main partner, had called for a march with a million people to Tank Bund to press the claim for a separate Telangana.   had given a slip to the police, got into Lumbini Park, took a speed boat but midway in the lake, he was arrested.

 The days of agitation are behind Harish Rao now. The 45-year-old nephew of CM K   is now the irrigation minister whose job is to make the dream of KCR to provide irrigation water to one crore acres of farmland come true. Saturday was as hectic as any other day for Harish Rao. Accompanying the 6ft 2 inches tall mantri in his car, STOI did a free-wheeling interview with him. Excerpts:
 
 
 
 A: The efforts have just started. The CM will tour other states and go to Delhi. He strongly feels, and rightly so, that there should be a culture change in the way we address national issues. In Telangana, we have given concrete solutions. There is enough power supply as the issue has been resolved 100%. There is a permanent solution for drinking water and irrigation water problems. The issues are being addressed on a permanent basis. But what we notice in the country today is issues are being handled in a routine political manner. The CM’s agenda is to bring about a change in the country.
 
 
 
 A: (Laughs) Those who cannot strongly face our party can only be spreading these rumours. KTR and I have a strong bond. Apart from being related, we are childhood friends. He lived in a house in   as a child when he was pursuing his studies and I lived in his house for three or four years in Hyderabad for my studies. Stories about we not getting along are totally wrong and baseless.
 
 
 
 A: In 10 years of Congress rule, they could achieve providing irrigation water for only 6 lakh acres, out of this 4.5 lakh acres was of old projects. In just three years, the TRS government has been able to provide irrigation water for 10.5 lakh acres.
 
 Additionally, stabilisation under   and other projects, another 12 lakh acres were provided water. We have achieved this 22 lakh already. By the end of 2018, water will be provided for another 10 lakh acres as targeted. Compare what we have achieved in three years with what the Congress delivered in 10 years. Under Kaleshwaram, 36 lakh acres will get water.
 
 
 
 A: Not at all. We will soon be opening 50 more ‘Mana Kooragayalu’ outlets in the city in addition to the 50 that we already have. We have one at KBR and a couple of more will be opened on another side of the park because we have noticed that a lot of morning-walkers are buying fresh vegetables at the existing outlet. The idea is to get the customer get fresh produce at reasonable rates and the farmer also gets the right price without middlemen being involved. In the last 65 years, only four lakh metric tonnes of godown space was made available in the state, but after the TRS came to power, we have constructed 330 godowns at a cost of Rs 1,024 crore, providing for godown space for 18 lakh metric tonnes. This is where seeds and fertilizers are stored in advance for the season, and also crops are harvest in every godown at mandal headquaters which have been constructed in a scientific method.
 
 
 
 A: How can I do that? It is for the chief minister to assess my performance.
 
 
 
 A: Since I know the effort I put in, I think I am up to the mark.
 
