COIMBATORE: Shanmugam Rangasamy, former president of Odanthurai panchayat, will address students of Toronto University in Canada on ‘smart villages’. Rangasamy and his wife Lingammal Shanmugam were instrumental in supplying clean drinking water and proper toilet facilities in the 10 villages under Odanthurai panchayat.

 Rangasamy, a Class X dropout, was president of Odanthurai panchayat from 1996 till 2006 and was succeeded by Lingammal remained in the post till 2016.
 
 The panchayat owned a water treatment plant near river Bhavani and every day supplied treated drinking water to villagers. It also owned a windmill and has not had to pay a single rupee to the   over the last ten years.
 
 Rangasamy received a letter from University of Toronto last month, asking him to address a conference on April 4 and 5. But he could not get a visa. “The university authorities then told me they arranged another conference in May,” said Shanmugam.
 
 Umapalayam, Uppupallam, TAS Nagar, Vinobhaji Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Kavin Garden, AKS Colony, Aathivasi Colony, Agasthiyar Nagar and Kallarpudhur villages come under Odanthurai e panchayat and boast of a population of more than 9,500.
 
 “We did not tolerate corruption at any situation in our panchayat and now the village panchayat has become a model to all in the state. We started a water treatment plant near river Bhavani at Mampatti near Mettupalayam in 1999 and we have been supplying treated, bacteria free drinking water to the villagers,” said Rangasamy.
 
 The village panchayat supplied bore well water to all the households. But drinking water was supplied to only street pipelines in the ten villages, he said.
 
 “Four women self-help groups started a drinking water plant at   under the Odanthurai panchayat and supplied bottled drinking water in the name of ‘Sugam’ to Mettupalayam, Tirupur and surrounding areas. The panchayat hes been helping them since 2005,” said Randasamy.
 
 People from 43 countries, including the US, France and  , had visited the village panchayat to witness the developments, he added.
 
 
