CHANDIGARH: There’s a lack of menstrual hygiene and related facilities for many Indian women, but this is especially true for those residing in rural areas of   where only 30% women use sanitary napkins. What’s more, it is considered a taboo to dispose of the sanitary napkin after use, reveals a study conducted by the School of Public Health, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). The study evaluated the government’s menstrual hygiene scheme was published in International Journal of Community Medicine and Public Health.

 The researchers found that to avoid the taboo, women used cloth napkins which results in health hazards like urinary tract infection and even run a risk for cervix cancer.
 
  Rural Health Mission had launched this scheme in April 2005, to spread awareness about menstrual hygiene. It was found that while 80% women were aware of sanitary napkins, only 30% used it in  . The ASHA workers, who were to make available the napkins, were disappointed due to little margins of profit and irregular supply from the scheme. The other stakeholders in the community were not actively involved in the implementation of this scheme.
 
 Under the scheme, napkins were being sold to the target population — adolescent girls — at the rate of Rs 6 per pack of six napkins by Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs). “But these workers were not regularly paid the incentive. They were eligible for an incentive amount of Re 1 per pack,” said Dr  , first author of the study, PGIMER.
 
 As many as 50 interviews were conducted and a common problem of napkin disposal stood out. “There is no guideline followed to throw the sanitary napkins. We found that in Haryana, there is a common belief that stepping on a menstrual napkin ‘thrown by others’ is very harmful,” said Dr Amarjeet Singh, co-author of the study.
 
 He said, “This study, published in 2016, pointed out that irregular supply and minimal subsidies are the major barrier for implementation of this programme.” There were no disposal bins for sanitary napkins. “There are many schemes on the papers. But nothing on ground and the situation remains the same till date,” said Dr Bhattacharya.
 
 
