TUTICORIN: Five days after the anti-Sterlite violence claimed 13 lives in police firing, a state minister who also happened to be an MLA from the district, visited   on Sunday. Quite understandably, minister for information and publicity   had to face the brunt of simmering anger from the injured patients and their relatives at the Tuticorin medical college hospital.

 
 
 An injured victim and his mother raised a volley of questions at the minister demanding that he give it in writing that the Sterlite copper smelter plant would be closed down. Raju, the   MLA from Kovilpatti constituency, visited the hospital a couple of hours after the district administration and police lifted Section 144 of CrPC around 8 am. Ahead of the minister’s visit, a heavy posse of police was stationed at the entrance of the hospital where a makeshift check post was set up. Accompanied by district collector Sandeep Nanduri and superintendent of police  , the minister visited injured patients on the sixth floor of GH.
 
 Kadambur Raju politely inquired about the condition of two injured patients, L Prabhu and  , from a team of doctors and spoke to them. However, while reaching the bed of an injured college student,  , the minister didn’t expect what was in store. “Don’t try to fool us. Treat us with a humanitarian approach,” K Vasanthi, Raj’s mother, told the minister. She was pointing at the bruises in the victim’s hand, allegedly caused in the police lathicharge. She asked the minister to permanently close down the Sterlite factory.
 
 Next, it was the turn of the youth himself to shoot questions at the minister. “Will you take responsibility if the factory (Sterlite) functions again? We are ready to collect and pay double the amount you have received from Sterlite,” he told the minister. He also asked him what action had been taken by the government to close the factory. Raju, along with the district collector, pacified the mother-son duo by stating that electricity and water supply to the factory had been disconnected. Rattled by the face-off, Kadambur Raju decided to cut short his visit and left the hospital in a hurried manner. Later, the minister held discussions with a senior IAS official at the collectorate.
 
