CHENNAI: For 23 kids from corporation and government-aided schools across the city, every weekend in the last four months, has begun with an exciting new discovery – about themselves and the outside world. Their day starts with them assembling at the Children’s Club in Mylapore to sing Bharathiyar, Amir Khusrau and Tagore songs, and every tune they’ve imbibed paves the way to their first over seas trip – the Serenade International Choral Festival, which will be held from June 24 to July 5 at Washington DC.

 As these kids soak in the spirit of peace and brotherhood through the voices of some of history’s best known visionaries, what their mission needs more pressingly are funds and  , which has been training the children for this opportunity, is calling upon people to contribute in a fundraising campaign they’ve launched on Ketto.org. “Our Chennai Children’s choir has performed across Chennai, and since the choral festival spotted their potential and wrote to us, we’ve been thrilled,” says   of Nalandaway. “The festival will have close to 25 choir groups from around the world and ours is the only children’s choir.”
 
 
 For  , a homemaker from Mylapore, thewait is almost feverish. Her 14-yearoldson Muthuselvan isthetalk of every family get-together, as they repeatedly run over how his America visit could turn him intothehero of thefamily. “When he started singing, he made us proud. That his talent could take him to America was beyond our imagination,” says Mariswari. Muthuselvan himself found in his singing lessons the key to freedom from his day-to-day worries. “There’s a song we sing that says music helps you forget all your worries, and that’s just what I feel,” hesays.
 
 Over thelastfour years,   has set up 12 Art Labs, a programme under which kids displaying exceptional talent in the arts are scouted from government-aided corporation schools across the country and nurtured through studios and a structured training programme set up in their respective schools. Many of the kids featured in the Chennai Children’s Choir include children from Nalandaway’s Art Labs across the city. Co-directors of the choir, vocalist and composer Vedanth Bharadwaj and musician  , have been training the kids for the festival. The songs, according to the team, are still being composed and willbebasedon reconciliation, the spirit of harmony, world peace and humanity.
 
 Of the Rs32,92,850 required for the kids and their conductors to travel to the festival, the team has raisedRs8,58,506 so far. “We have two visually challenged children and two with special needs as part of the choir. This performance will help create role modelsofthese children for others in their community,” says Ayer.
 
