AURANGABAD: A 17-year old boy and a senior citizen were killed and property worth an estimated Rs 100 crore damaged in the communal violence that rocked the old city area from Friday night to Saturday morning. 

  
  Police in riot gear prepare to deal with protesters
 
 Around 60 people, including police personnel, were injured in the violence. Police said they were forced to fire plastic bullets and even tear gas shells to control the mobs besides lathi charge. Residents of the affected areas, however, said police were mute spectators and reacted only when they felt threatened by the rioters.
 
 The boy died of a bullet injury, reportedly fired by police, while the 65-year old man died of suffocation and burns when the shop in which he was sleeping was set alight by a mob.
 
 Police refused to comment on the boy's death, saying that they were investigating as to who shot him and awaiting the post-mortem report.
 
 Around 50 suspects involved in the rioting have been rounded up, said police, adding that more will be arrested soon.
 
 Among the policemen who were injured and taken to hospital were assistant commissioner of police  , ACP (crime) Rameshwar Thorat, City Chowk police inspector Hemant Kadam, Kranti Chowk police inspector Shripad Paropkari and several crime branch personnel.
 
 
 
 
 Locals said, "The absence of seniors left the cops clueless about the course of action to be taken and allowed the mobs to indulge in violence." 
 
 Mobs were seen carrying swords and sticks and moving about freely in the streets till Saturday morning. At least 60 shops were torched, several houses burnt and a number of police as well as private vehicle were either set on fire or damaged by the mobs.
 
 Acting commissioner of police Milind Bharambe told TOI that the police stations have been ordered to register all the complaints. 
 
 The office bearers of Vyapari Mahasangh, a traders' organisation, have pegged losses at about Rs 100 crore in about 14 hours of rioting.
 
 The   Jilla Vyapari Mahasangh has appealed to the traders not to react to the rumours and to continue with their business peacefully.
 
 It all started on Friday, when a team of the civic body reached Motikaranja area for snapping the illegal water connection to a mosque and a temple. After snapping the connection of the mosque, the team was prevented from cutting the connection of the temple. A strong objection was raised by a group, resulting into a clash between the residents of Gandhinagar and Motikaraja areas. Police quickly intervened and pacified the groups.
 
 However, later in the evening, some miscreants from Gandhinagar demanded money from the mechanic of a garage for liquor, said sources. The suspects reportedly thrashed him when when he refused to pay them cash.
 
 One of them carried a sword, which sparked panic among residents. 
 
 Soon, a mob from Gandhinagar damaged several shops and even torched vehicles in the area. It was after a couple of hours of violence that police intervened.
 
 Taking advantage of the situation, the father of an independent corporator reportedly announced in his area that some miscreants belonging to a community were planning to attack their houses. In response, several youths wielding sharp weapons moved towards Shahgunj, where local youths started throwing stones at them.
 
 With certain political leaders allegedly provoking the youths, the violence spiralled out of control. 
 
