GURUGRAM: A 23-year-old MCom student has lodged a complaint with police against a youth whom she met through Facebook and two of his friends for raping her repeatedly over a period of two years. The three allegedly used a   clip to   her, police said. 

 Keshav (19), the Facebook friend of the woman and a resident of Nawada, and Abhishek (23), a resident of Naharpur, have been arrested while Sunil (22), also a resident of Nawada, is absconding. Keshav and Abhishek are BTech students while Sunil is unemployed. Police got Keshav on a day’s remand from court. Abhishek was sent to judicial custody.
 
 The woman alleged the three men made a video while raping her the first time on June 2016 and used it to blackmail and rape her repeatedly. She kept mum because they threatened to upload the video to the internet. However, recently, they used it to break her engagement after which she confided in her family. An FIR was registered at the Manesar women’s police station.
 
 The woman told police she became friends with Keshav on the social networking site on January 2016. Soon, they had shared their cellphone numbers and started talking to each other. On June 2016, Keshav came to her college in the Manesar area and offered to take her to “a quieter place” to talk.
 
 “Unsuspecting, I got into his car. He took me to a house near my college. Sunil and Abhishek were already in the room. Keshav offered me a cold drink and sedated me. When I came to my senses, I realised I had been raped. The men told me they had made a video and threatened to make it viral. From then on, they have been blackmailing and raping me repeatedly,” she told police in her complaint. She alleged Sunil had once taken her to a hotel in the IMT area and sexually assaulted her there.
 
 According to the complaint, some months ago, the woman changed her phone number. She also got engaged and was to get married on April 29. But last month, Keshav called her on the new number. When she did not take the call, he sent her nude pictures to her fiancé which led to the wedding being called off.
 
 Keshav, Abhishek and Sunil have been booked under sections 376-D (gang rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. The woman recorded her statement in front of a magistrate. “The accused have admitted to the crime. Abhishek has been sent to jail and we have taken the main accused, Keshav, on one-day remand to recover his mobile phone which was used to make the video of the act. We are conducting raids to nab Sunil and he will be arrested soon,” said inspector Poonam Singh, SHO, women police station, Manesar.
 
 
