BHUBANESWAR: The state Crime Branch is planning to take the assistance of an agency in Israel to retrieve CCTV footage of the Raipur-based courier firm from where English lecturer Punjilal Meher had allegedly sent a 'parcel bomb' to the house of his colleague,   Sahoo, at Patnagarh in February. 

 Meher was arrested on April 26 for planning and executing the blast that killed Sanjukta's newlywed son   and mother-in-law   on February 23. 
 
 The Crime Branch said the courier firm's CCTV hard disk did not have high storage capacity. "We are looking for the autorickshaw driver who took Meher to the courier firm's office on February 15. Meher feigned illness and sent the driver into the office to despatch the consignment to Patnagarh. When we scanned the CCTV footage, we could not get the visuals of that particular day," a Crime Branch officer said. 
 
 Experts in the country, the officer added, failed to retrieve the footage. "We contacted some experts in the country, but they failed. We are now in touch with an agency in Israel that has assured us that it can retrieve the two-month-old footage," he said.
 
 Asked why the sleuths chose Israel, the officer said the country is reputed for its services concerning CCTV footage retrieval. He did not divulge whether the agency is a government investigating unit in Israel. "We (state government) are ready to pay for the retrieval of the CCTV footage. Once we get footage, we will track the driver. The footage will work as solid evidence against Meher," the officer said.
 
 Crime Branch said they will also send Meher's laptop and other electronic gadgets to the   at Gandhinagar in Gujarat to retrieve data. "We came to know that the Gandhinagar laboratory has the requisite technology to retrieve old data. We will also use latest technology (ninhydrin) to trace Meher's fingerprint on a letter and envelope," the officer said.
 
 Meanwhile, the additional director-general of police (Crime Branch)  , who had found vital clues and instructed the investigating team to zero in on Meher, has sent appreciation letters to the team members, including inspector general Arun Bothra and investigating officer Anil Das for cracking the case.
 
 
