State   are just around the corner and with the code of conduct set to come into place soon, many politicians are using the time before that to garner as much public support as possible. And the people who seem to be most in demand are those in  . From event organizers and coordinators to   actors — big and not-so-well-known — and even photographers and makeup artistes, they’re all being hired by the dozen to entertain supporters of various political outfits.
In small towns and districts, gala nights with  , singers and dancers are being organized. Performances, appearances and meet-and-greet opportunities are the order of the day. The agenda of every politician worth his salt seems to be to outdo others. 
 An organizer, on the basis of anonymity, tells us, “These are the kind of dream events that most of us aspire to organize, given the sheer magnitude. Those who hire us are clear in their mandate that we are to go all out to entice voters, so we get to work with great talent and use the best equipment and facilities to ensure everything looks larger than life.”
 The events see names from television and film industries, along with popular singers and reality-show contestants being called on. They get to interact with the fans onstage and perform. “Everyone wants to bring popular names, for which they are ready to shell out big money, so much so that even lesser-known celebrities get paid well for appearances. This is a great time for anyone to be in showbiz; everyone seems to be in demand for these shows,” adds another artiste coordinator. The budget of a show, these sources say, can easily go up to `1 crore, which includes pay outs to celebrities and the extravagant setup. “They also bring in people in big numbers, running into tens of thousands and the organizers arrange for food and beverages for them, apart from transport,” adds an event coordinator. 
 With stars and celebrities happy with the money received, fans thrilled seeing their idols onstage and the organizers getting happy supporters, this seems like a formula that satisfies all, don’t you think?
 
