NEW DELHI: Former India allrounder  , impressed with  's win over Sobo Super Sonics to enter the final of the  , acknowledged the importance of death bowling in the tournament. Agarkar, speaking about the final that takes place on Wednesday, highlighted that the team bowling better during the death overs is more likely to win the contest.

 
 
 
 "It is time for the business end of the inaugural T20 Mumbai League and the Triumph Knights Mumbai North East did not disappoint in the first qualifier as they comfortably beat the   by a massive 40 runs to deservedly secure a place in Wednesday’s final. As the tournament has progressed, as much as the spinners have come into play with all the wear and tear of the pitches, the team that bowls best towards the end of the innings might just have best chance to win the honours," Agarkar, who played 26 Tests, 191 ODIs and four T20Is for India, wrote in his column for TOI.
 
 
 
 Triumph Knights rode on a whirlwind 63 in 35 balls from captain   to post a challenging total of 162 for six and then defended it successfully against some poor batting by their rivals who were arrested at 122 in 19.1 overs to emerge triumphant. 
 
 "Put in to bat after losing the toss, things were looking perilous for the Knights against the Supersonics, whose attack has always looked good with the new ball, and they found themselves at 48/3. In moments like these that you expect a senior and experienced player to put his hand up, and a spirited 63 of just 35 balls by the Knights skipper, Suryakumar Yadav, saw them post a respectable total of 162 which made it very competitive on a slowish dry pitch," Agarkar wrote.
 
 "The Knights struck early as they removed Jay Bista for a golden duck on the first ball of the second innings. Aakarshit Gomel and keeper Prasad Pawar tried to steady the ship for the Sonics but left-arm spinner Aditya Dhumal was having none of it as he picked up two wickets in the next three balls, including that of Abhishek Nayar from which they could never really recover."
 
 Chasing 163 for victory, Super Sonics got off to a shock start when key batsman Jay Bista fell to the first ball of the innings, caught at covers. They then lost two more wickets inside the power play, both batsmen getting out to poor shots in the sixth over of the innings from left arm spinner Aditya Dhumal and never looked like chasing from that position. Dhumal packed off Prasad Pawar, caught at mid-off for 27 in 19 balls, to break the second-wicket stand at 45 and then got rid of captain Nayar, caught at backward of square, as Super Sonics slumped to 45 for 3.
 
 "As the scorecard changed from 45/1 to 50/4 the target of 163 looked like an insurmountable mountain and the growing required rate was too much for the Sonics batting order to chase down. The Knights had defeated the Sonics in the league stage as well and will go in to the final with a great amount of confidence as well as a day extra to rest. With the batters letting them down, the Sonics would feel it was a huge opportunity lost," Agarkar said.
 
 The Triumph Knights thus straightaway entered the final, set for March 21, to fight for the top prize of Rs one crore, while Super Sonics will get another chance in Qualifier 2 which is set for Tuesday at the Wankhede Stadium.
 
 "All is not over for the league table toppers as they have one more chance to make it to the final which also would mean that they play 5 days in a row if they do get to the finals. As this article goes to press the Sonics are awaiting their opponents in Qualifier 2- the winner of the Eliminator match between the Namo Bandra Blasters and the Shivaji Park Lions," added Agarkar.
 
