PUNE: The decisions taken by former   chief Tukaram Mundhe have hit the right note with experts and ex-bureaucrats, who want his policies to continue for the betterment of the transport utility.

 The favourable opinion has been set off by new PMPML chief Nayana Gunde’s recent assertion that any decision to reverse the termination of 153 staffers will be taken on merit basis. These employees were terminated by Mundhe.
 
  
 Sources in the PMPML said there have been attempts, mainly by corporators, to reverse some of the decisions taken by Mundhe. PMC standing committee chief   had earlier said the new CMD has been requested to take a fresh look at the decisions regarding transfer, termination and suspension of employees. These decisions were taken by her predecessor.
 
 “The new CMD should prove to the people that the decisions taken by her predecessor were wrong before amending or scrapping them. Mundhe meant business. While I do accept that some of his steps were not right, they can be tweaked a bit. Changing or scrapping them completely will set a bad example,”  , secretary of the  , said.
 
 Ramchandra Gohad, a retired bureaucrat, shared the same opinion. “To streamline the public transport of a city like Pune, some harsh steps were required. Even if some of Mundhe’s decisions were not very friendly, they shouldn’t be discarded outrightly. They can be diluted a bit,” he said. 
 
 Transport activists said the decisions that affected commuters adversely needed a relook. “The decisions that may have affected the commuters adversely should be tweaked. Eventually, it is all about commuters,” Yatish Devadiga, a transport activist, said.
 
 He added that the new CMD shouldn’t give into the political pressure. “Mundhe’s successor has a view of her own. She should work for the betterment of the PMPML and amend decisions which she feels are not in the interest of the transport utility,” Devadiga added.
 
 A senior PMPML official said the call for a relook in decisions was expected. “However, the PMPML chief should now concentrate of providing better services to the commuters. There needs to be more focus on simple things which make a difference,” he said.
 
 
