NEW DELHI: The   ( ) administration may find itself in a spot over violation of University Grants Commission’s regulations regarding financial matters.

 The university not only failed to comply with UGC’s order of October 2017 (a copy of which is with TOI) in recovering overpayment to a teacher of Rs 20.88 lakh, but even after accepting the objections of Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) it sat on the matter till recovery became “time-barred”.
 
 Sources said this could be just the tip of the iceberg as there are close to 100 cases, including that of a top JNU official, where past service has been counted for payments in violation of   regulations and the total overpayment could be worth several crores.
 
 CAG, in its inspection report for the year 2014-15, pointed towards overpayment of Rs 16.51 lakh to a teacher as her past service had been counted and consequent promotion given to her in violation of UGC rules. TOI is in possession of these documents. “The university accepted the audit observation and stated that the promotion to the grade of assistant professor (senior scale) and associate professor granted to the faculty member were not in accordance with the UGC rules,” the CAG report states.
 
 The report added, “Since the matter relates to undue financial benefit and overpayment to an employee from government funds, the matter is serious. The university should take immediate actions to (a) recover the excess payment of Rs 16.51 lakh… (b) the dates of promotion of these two scales may also be changed to the date of which the teacherbecame eligible as per UGC rules.”
 
 The CAG audit revealed that not only was the overpayment of Rs 20.88 lakh not recovered, but the faculty member continued to be overpaid. The matter was also brought to the notice of K K Sharma, secretary (higher education), ministry of human resource development by M P Singh, director general of audit, central expenditure in June 2017.
 
 The matter remained “unattended” by the JNU administration till the recovery became five years old and, hence, time-barred in terms of a Supreme Court’s judgment and DoPT’s office memorandum dated March 2, 2016. The five-year period of overpayment got over on May 29, 2017, following which JNU referred the matter (highlighted by CAG on May 10, 2016 and March 16, 2017) to UGC in September, 2017 (a copy of which is with TOI).
 
 UGC, in its reply dated October 17, 2017, stated that “the matter was re-examined and found that the university has given promotion under CAS… by violating UGC regulations. UGC regulations on promotions are mandatory in nature. Any promotion in violation of these orders is irregular. You are, therefore, requested to immediately recover excess amount without any further delay and compliance report may be sent to UGC immediately.”
 
 On receipt of UGC’s letter, the JNU vice-chancellor on November 7, 2017 issued a recovery order. But the executive council in its meeting on November 23, 2018 resolved “to authorise the VC to setup a committee to look into this case…” and “further resolved that the issue of recovery of arrears from… would be kept on hold till the receipt of response from CAG.”
 
 Despite several calls and text messages with detailed queries on the matter to top officials of JNU administration, including the registrar, no response was received till filing of this report.
 
 A highly placed source in the university said that “while the university left no stone unturned to rectify the UGC regulation’s violation in PhD and MPhil admissions leading to reduction in admission for the current year, the same administration didn’t act despite reminders received from CAG, UGC and MHRD asking for recovery.”
 
 
