CHENNAI: Four days after a woman software engineer was pulled off her bike, attacked and robbed, police on Saturday arrested three men for the crime. The scooter of the victim, 30-year-old Lavanya   from  , her jewellery and mobile phones were recovered, a police officer said. 

 Of the arrested men, N Vinayagamurthy, 20, and L Logesh, 19, were involved in a murder in   in 2016. They, along with P Narayanamurthy, 19, have been sent to jail, the officer added. All three are from   in Semmancherry. Police also recovered a knife from Vinayakamurthy. 
 
  Explaining the arrest, additional commissioner of police M C   said the first breakthrough came when the stolen Honda Activa was found near a Tasmac outlet at Tsunami Colony two days after the crime. "It was the work of members of all special police teams. Scanning CCTV camera footage, we found two men walking in the opposite direction after parking the scooter whose number plates were removed," he said. 
 
 Another officer said they had questioned more than 100 people in the vicinity and showed them the CCTV camera footage. "We got key clues and narrowed down on the suspects," he said.
 
 He added that Vinayagamurthy attacked Lavanya Reddy with a large knife, sniped off her 1.5 sovereign gold chain and snatched a portion of her bracelet and left her bleeding in a clump of bushes away from the main road.
 
 The laptop and two mobile phones, including an iPhone, that Lavanya had placed in the compartment under the seat of the scooter were also taken away. On Monday night, Lavanya had gone to a private company in Guindy to discuss a project and was heading towards the residence of her sister Narisha Reddy in Nookampalayam near Thalambur when she was attacked and robbed.
 
 “The software company in which she worked offered a cab to drop Lavanya home, but she preferred to ride on her own vehicle,” said a senior police officer.. Lavanya, a native of Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh, had moved into a rented apartment at Thalambur three months ago. She had earlier been staying with Narisha Reddy and her family, poilice said. Lavanya’s father Pitchi Reddy Janga is a businessman in Visakhapatnam.
 
 
 
 
