Music and technology have gone hand-in-hand for a very long time, be it moving on from acoustic instruments to electric ones, inventing new-age instruments or state-of-the-art sound recording and mixing devices. Musician and music producers the world over are tech-savvy in their own ways, blending their talent and available technology to bring out catchy tunes. But when you think of music instruments and recording studios, images of huge equipments with multifarious controls and buttons come to our mind. All that is slowly changing, as app makers are bringing out cutting-edge mobile and tablets   by the minute, enabling musicians to carry all that’s required to produce good music wherever they go, and Bengaluru musicians are catching on to them real quick.
Take, for instance, music producer   D, who, along with  , was in the limelight recently for his cover of   using an app called  . The unique app has an innovative interface that makes it easy to learn and use, and can mimic the sound of a Carnatic mandolin, as well as many other instruments. Speaking about it, Vijay, who’s produced songs and jingles for close to a decade now, says, “I came across the app only six months ago, and when I started using it, I was surprised by its versatility and ease of use. It’s so easy to slide from one note to the other, something that my mom, a Carnatic musician herself, noticed and appreciated. As humans, we always crave for something unique and new. This not only has given me an identity of my own, but because of it’s many functionalities, its become easy to produce music on the go. And without disturbing others too, because I can plug in my headphones and practise or create tunes.”
 One thing that’s important in adapting to changing times is realizing the advantages of such technology early and leaving your mark on it. City–based composer/producer   is one such, who says, “It was all about realizing just how much I could do on my smartphone that could help me streamline the production and composition process when I got to my studio. You can get almost everything on your phone/ tablet now, and although they’re usually distilled versions of what you can access from your laptop, they’re still quite powerful. So, it was more of a ‘making the most out of everything’ situation for me.”
 There are, of course, advantages and disadvantages to these apps that help making music production easier. “They’re easily accessible; there’s an app for almost every instrument and you have enough power to start giving shape to your ideas. Something as simple as BPM Tap to figure out the tempo of a track to synth apps like S.A.M.M.I and Caustic, makes life easier,” says Zain. But is it a good thing that everyone has the power to produce music? Will good music not get lost in all the clutter, good and bad? “Not at all. Good music always finds its way to the top. It’s great that in today’s fast-paced world, when not all have the luxury of time and money to practise traditional instruments that are hard to master, such technology gives the musician in everyone a chance to express themselves. Of course, without a good a foundation, you cannot go very far. But once you get hooked to making music, I’m sure people will take the effort to learn more,” says Vijay Krishna.
 App makers are increasingly integrating touch gestures and phone accelerometres to making music in innovative ways, and it doesn’t seem to stop anytime soon.  , of Bengaluru-based Answer duo, says, “Music production apps today have their own limitation, if you compare them to laptop softwares, but they’re developing so rapidly that this won’t be an issue for long. I use apps to record and recreate sounds I hear at the airport and parks and other public places, which add freshness to my music. Indulging in pocket-friendly technology is the way to go, if we want to stay current and relevant. That’s the best way to go forward today.”
 
