CHANDIGARH: "Just stay in your life, where you are. Staying with your friends and family and pursuing the same career and still feeling incredibly contented in your heart- meditation has the power to do that," said  , an international violinist, a teacher and a 'heartfulness' trainer while talking to TOI. 

 On his maiden visit to the city to promote his latest book titled 'The Heartfulness Way' Pollock confirmed of having reached a point in his path of spirituality, which lies beyond the divisions of belief and doubt. "Healthfulness is a concept that teaches you to become a guide to your ownself without having to depend on any guidance from the external forces or other people. It is like an experiment, where people should come and practice this concept and see what it does for them," said Pollock. 
 
 "The book is essentially based on a set of conversations that I have had with my guru over a course of time. He and I started working on the book in 2015, which was released in 2017," he added. The book was released by President Kovind at the   in January, 2018.
 
 'Heartfulness' works with the understanding of 'yogic transformation', which means pulling your stream of consciousness from the flow of your body, and from the limbs and other parts of it and making it focus on one point within yourself. "When you meditate, your consciousness begins to shrink from the rest of your body and just becomes focused on one point inside of you. It means to become the best version of yourself, to befriend the divine within you," said Anil Vashisht, another 'heartfulness' practitioner seated for the discussion.
 
 Joshua Pollock, 38, who started playing violin at the age of 4.5 years, considers 'heartfulness' as his way of life. Originally form Maine, USA, he currently lives in New Delhi. He started treading the path of spirituality almost 15 years ago. "The concept of 'heartfulness' was actually started by a man named   in Fatehgarh, Uttar Pradesh. It was after him that a movement Ram Chandra Mission spread in the northern and western parts of India," added Pollock, who got in touch with the concept back in 2004 and has been a disciple of  , popularly known as 'Daaji'.
 
 Speaking about his collaboration with A R Rehman, Pollock mentioned that he first met him in London in 2008, while he was teaching violin at the Guild Hall School of Music and Dance. "In 2008, Rehman invited me to come to India and teach western classical music in his school in Chennai. I was the first international faculty member there. And then eventually, I played for Rehman in movies like Delhi 6 and Ghajini from 2008-2010," said Pollock. 
 
 He said the readers will find helpful tips, practical details and the understanding of how 'heartfulness' can be applied in their lives to transform them.
 
 
