RANCHI:   of Delhi Public School Ranchi became the city topper in science stream with 98% marks in the   results of class 12 declared on Saturday. Madhumita of   topped the Arts stream in Ranchi with 96.2% while RN Shivani of DAV Kapildev clinched the top spot in the city in the commerce stream with 97.2% marks.

 
 Prakhar and RN Shivani also topped the state in science and commerce respectively. Talking to TOI, Prakhar Kumar said: "I was expecting about 95% in the boards but becoming the state topper is extremely exciting. I have written JEE Advanced already and I am waiting for the results of the same."
 
 Students and parents exchanged jubilant greetings across various schools across the capital after the results were declared. "The economics re test was extremely concerning for me as I had my WBJEE exams a day before the second time the exam was conducted. I was exhausted from the travel. I was lucky that my preparation was on point and I managed to score 99 in the subject," said  , a science student from DPS Ranchi.
 
 From dreams of cracking civil services to getting into elite engineering colleges, the toppers shared their goals and aspirations for the future on the occasion. "Even though I have a plan of studying English as a subject for my graduation, I want to pursue creative writing as a full-fledged career option. I will be applying to   and study creative writing on the side," shared Madhumita of JVM Shyamali, the city topper of the Arts stream.
 
 
 
 In a curious case,  , a student of science of Kairali School was in for a shocker when he discovered he has scored only 33 marks in mathematics. The student, who has 95 marks in both Physics and Chemistry and has an overall percentage of 88.8%, is devastated by the results. Talking to TOI, Kumar said: "I am at a loss and extremely confused. My overall percentage has dropped drastically because of my marks in mathematics." Jacob CJ, principal, Kairali School said: "We have advised the student to go in for scrutiny of the marks. His performance in the other subjects is starkly different and the marks in mathematics is probably a error."
 
