BHOEWAL: Families of the four Punjabi youths hailing from nearby villages in Majitha, who were proclaimed dead along with others that had earlier gone missing in Iraq, have demanded credible evidence, including the DNA test reports of their kin, based on which the government had declared them dead.

 The grieving families had gathered at the house of Gurpinder Kaur, sister of slain  , to console each other.
 
 While talking to TOI, Gurpinder said Union external affairs minister   had been claiming for past three-and-a-half years that all of them were alive but the government didn’t know their whereabouts. “Now, when she has finally admitted that all of them were dead, she must have said so on receiving some credible evidence. We also want to see that evidence, including the DNA test reports,” she said.
 
 Meanwhile, Baba Bakala sub divisional officer Ravinder Singh also met the aggrieved families reached at Gurpinder’s house on Wednesday and to expressed condolences on behalf of the administration.
 
 He said, “We are here to express our sympathy. The family members have given us a letter demanding evidence confirming death of their relatives.”
 
 “Since the government officials have personally come to convey the message of their demise, we have to believe them. I still want the government to provide the evidence of death to the kin of the deceased,” said Gurpinder.
 
 The family members also discussed about mounting pressure on government for seeking compensation.
 
 Sonia, wife of Sonu, resident of Chavinda Devi, said she had been doing menial jobs all this time hoping that her husband would return and take on the responsibility of looking after two children and his ailing mother. “But now my world has turned upside down. I really don’t know how we will survive,” she said crying. The government should take responsibility for educating the children, continue to provide her the monthly compensation of Rs 20,000 and give free medical facilities to the family.
 
 Gurpinder said there were few families whose financial condition was really poor and now they had lost their lone bread winners too. “The government should give jobs to those who are qualified and settle others who were not,” she said.
 
 Sukhdeep Kaur, whose brother   was killed by the ISIS, said, “First we want to see the evidence with our own eyes and of course the government has to think of giving compensation to us since we have lost our lone bread winner.” 
 
 
