BENGALURU: A team of heritage enthusiasts has stumbled upon a   dating back to the 11th century. The relic, found in a graveyard in  , east Bengaluru, is one of the first Tamil inscriptions discovered in city limits. It bears information on the building of   (presently located behind ITPL).

  PL, who is spearheading the physical verification project, Inscription Stones of Bangalore, said they were surprised to find the stone inscription amid graves. “We were on project rounds and saw the inscription dating back to 1043AD a few days ago. The Tamil text mentions the name of king  , who in his 32nd year of reign facilitated the building of Pattandur Lake with three sluice gates and even gifted land for the construction,” he added.
 
 According to Udaya, the engraving says the ruler ordered installation of idols of three deities, including goddess Durga and lord Ganapathi. It also warns that those who try to damage the inscription or tank shall inherit the sins of those who have died between the Ganges and Cape Comorin (present Kanyakumari). “He (one who damages the inscription) shall be the husband of his own mother. May the line of him who protects the inscription prosper,” Udaya said quoting the inscription.
 
 Highlighting the importance of the inscription, Udaya said, “Now we know that Pattandur Lake, located about 7km from the inscription site, is more than 1,000 years old and the village with the same name is even older. Further research on the inscription can throw more light on the history of Bengaluru,” he added.
 
 When asked whether the inscription is in its original place of installation or has been displaced to the graveyard, Udaya said site inspection shows it’s the original spot. “There is a Shiva temple right behind the graveyard and there are some stones there. The graveyard could have come up 100 to 200 years ago,” he added.
 
 Pattandur: A lake under threat
 
 Pattandur Agrahara Lake recently hit headlines, with the high court issuing notices to civic agencies to clear encroachments on the lakebed. Citizens living in its vicinity have been campaigning to revive the waterbody.
 
 Whitefield Rising, a citizen group, in its petition to the court has challenged the BBMP’s plan to construct an 80-feet-wide road connecting Varthur Kodi Road to ITPL Main Road as the proposal poses a threat to the lake’s buffer zone. Citizens say illegal dumping of debris and cutting of trees is rampant in the zone.
 
 
