PANAJI/MAPUSA: Even though the electricity department staff worked overtime, it was 40 hours before power was restored to pockets of Valpoi, Bicholim, Anjuna and Assagao. Torrential rains and gusty winds hit the state on Thursday morning knocking out power. Department staff continued to work on the lines on Friday night as a second bout of rain accompanied by strong winds on Thursday night caused feeders to trip yet again.

 With the department’s staff busy restoring power, contractors and labour were hired to re-erect uprooted poles and restring wires. In Sankhli, power could not be restored to Ravindra Bhavan and Goa Institute of Management as contractors were reluctant to re-erect poles that had fallen in marshy land.
 
 The department’s loss of Rs 80 lakh could cross Rs 1 crore if the 10,000 kVA transformer at Mapusa is found to be beyond repair. For now, the transformer has been replaced so that power could be restored to Anjuna, Assagao, Badem and ward no 6 of the MMC.
 
 Public relations officer and executive engineer C H Rajagopalan said damage to the department’s infrastructure has been one of the worst seen in recent years where conductors, insulators, poles and smaller transformers were also affected. Majority of the damage was caused in North Goa as compared to South Goa where the loss was estimated to be Rs 10 lakh. 
 
 In North Goa, the damage to the high tension transformer at Mapusa, caused due a lightning strike, itself has been estimated at Rs 60 lakh. Trees and branches falling on cables brought down many high and low tension poles and snapped conductors, which loss has been pegged at an additional Rs 3 lakh.
 
 When asked why many people were left without power despite pre-monsoon maintenance work carried out, Rajagopalan said the department is helpless in times of natural calamities.
 
 “If we did not carry out preventive maintenance, the effect would have been disastrous and much worse,” he said. 
 
 Power was restored late Friday night in some pockets because the department gives priority to restoring high tension lines that affect a larger population, he said, adding that there’s no point restoring low tension lines unless the high tension ones are made functional.
 
 Department officials said that at 3am on Friday, the transformer from Nagoa substation was brought to Mapusa and that by 7am it was installed. “A team from Margao was requisitioned for the work. We have commenced testing the transformer after which we will charge it. Hopefully, by Friday evening, power will be restored,” assistant engineer Subhash Parsekar told TOI.
 
 Parsekar said that as an interim measure, since Thursday night, power was supplied to the areas of Anjuna and Assago on an two-hourly alternating basis. As of 7pm on Thursday, power was resumed to ward no. 6 of the Mapusa municipal council by way of a diversion through the Siolim transformer, he said.
 
 All four circuits that come from the main substation in Xeldem in Quepem to Nesaai in Sao Jose de Areal that in turn supply power to Margao, Benaulim and Colva went down on Thursday with department staff struggling to find and fix the faults till late Friday evening. While, two circuits were fixed, the staff were still struggling to fix the other two. It is taking time to locate the fault along the lines that pass through forest area, officials said.
 
 Areas where underground cabling was carried out, for example in Panaji and the entire South Goa coastal belt, parts of Margao, Loutolim and parts of Vasco, were less affected as compared to areas where the overhead lines were exposed to falling palms and trees.
 
 The directorate of fire and emergency services were also on their toes, receiving close to 100 calls on Friday from all over the state of mango, badam, jungle and forest trees fallen on roads, homes, garages and vehicles. In Karaswaddo, a badam tree fell on a garage causing a loss of Rs 1,000. In Shirgao, a tree fell on a house near the panchayat causing loss of Rs 2,000 and saving lives. Trees fell on a building in Pilerne, a compound wall in Porvorim, at the Kadamba depot in Porvorim and on a kiosk in Old Goa. A large number of calls were received from Old Goa.
 
 
