BENGALURU: What to pursue after II PU has been an age-old question in the minds of students and parents. While   and   are still the popular courses, there is a plethora of opportunities in other streams as well, allowing students to take up professional courses that suit their interest and capabilities, say experts. 

  According to Dr Sudha Bhogle, professor of psychology and head,  , "No course guarantees a job, unless you are good at it. Today, there are many other courses available, from event management to creative arts and data science to animation, for students to venture into depending on their interest and personality, and not follow the herd." 
 
 Sridhar G, managing director,  , said there is an acute shortage of expertise in all fields, paving the way for job opportunities for those with  . "We are also looking at a paradigm shift in the formal job sector, from employees on the payroll to informal self-employed specialists/freelancers who are experts in fields such as journalism, social media marketing and technology. To excel in this set-up, students will have to simply concentrate on two things: gaining domain knowledge/expertise and understanding their passion so they eventually enjoy what they do," added Sridhar.
 
 Neeraj Khanna, co-founder, CEO, Spark Career Mentors, agreed. "Some of the critical elements needed for success include strong work ethics, a 'can do' attitude, adaptability to deal with change and identifying a career that suits the student's aptitude and personality."
 
 In order to excel, students need to find their passion before choosing a stream. To answer students' and parents' queries, The Times of India is organizing a higher education expo - Mission Admission 2018 - where psychometric tests will help evaluate a student's skills and interest areas and present the viable career options after analysis, and a one-on-one counselling session by expert career counsellors.
 
 Register at 
  for availing the free psychometric test, analysis and counselling.
 
 
