BHOPAL: It’s the soothing   and not the chilled beer that the people of   division chose to toast this summer with. Consumption of wine, considered a drink of sobers, has shot up to 60 per cent this April as compared to last April.

 
 The rise in consumption of wine was several times more when compared with the beer, which is considered as guzzlers summer drink. Even the tipplers enjoying Indian Made Foriegn Liquor have been left far behind by the wine lovers in April 2017 to April 2018 in Bhopal division covering Betul, Sehore, Rajgarh, Vidisha, Raisen, Hoshangabad and Harda.
 
 Excise department figures state 846 litres of wine was consumed in Bhopal last April which has gone up to 1,341 litres this April. The quantity may appear less but the increase is close to 60 per cent over last year.
 
 Another surprising fact that came to light was when the consumption of other three forms of beveragesbeer, IMFL and country made foreign liquor were taken into account. The most preferred choice for the people of Bhopal division is IMFL and not beer.
 
 
 
 
 It is again against the common belief that consumption of IMFL comes down during summers as people shift to chilled beer. As many as 8,07,503 litres of IMFL was consumed this year as against 6,15,273 litres consumed last April. The rise in consumption of IMFL is over 31 per cent from last summer to this summer.
 
 The consumption of beer also recorded a rise, but it was marginal when compared with 60 per cent rise in wine and 31 per cent rise in IMFL from last April to this April. People consumed 2183198 litres of beer this April while last year the beer consumption was 20,10,005 litres during the month. The increase in this year’s beer consumption from last year was around 8 per cent.
 
 It is even less than the rise recorded in the consumption of country made liquor. The consumption of country made liquor was 17,17,900 litres this April while last year it was 14,69,325 litres, so the rise this year is almost 17 per cent from the last year, which is more than double the increase in consumption of beer.
 
 Oncologist Dr   said all forms of liquor can lead to cancer.
 
 People consider red wine safe due to antioxidants, but many often drink a full bottle of wine to get the high. Consuming wine in heavy quantity can also lead to cancer and it should be consumed in moderation, he added.
 
