CHENNAI: Travelling across thick layers of   at a glacial pace and   a hole through a large ice shelf formed over an unexplored region of Antarctica,   are inching closer to uncovering the missing links between melting glaciers in the southernmost continent and  .

 A team from the National Centre for Antarctic and Ocean Research (NCAOR), Goa, and the Norwegian Polar Institute drilled through an ice shelf up to a depth of 150 metres to collect samples of ice cores formed centuries ago. The study is being conducted about 200km from India’s permanent research station Maitri in Dronning Maud Land in eastern Antarctica as part of a four-year Madice project to study Antarctica’s contribution to global sea level rise.
 
 
  
 
 “The objective of this project is to study the ice rise dynamics, as it restricts the movement of glaciers to the sea. If the ice rise is cut off, glaciers will begin melting into the sea leading to sea level rise,” NCAOR director M Ravichandran said.
 
 An ice rise is a mass of ice resting on rock surrounded either by an ice shelf or both ice shelf and sea. It plays a key role in buttressing the discharge of ice sheets into the sea thereby regulating its contribution to the sea level. The study is being conducted at a time when researchers across the world have recorded rapid melting of ice sheets and have linked it to global sea level rise.
 
 Group director, polar sciences, of the project Thamban Meloth said data from the samples taken in 2016 and 2017 will be compared and analysed. “We have completed a major portion of the field studies and will come up with the results in a year’s time,” he said.
 
 The field studies involved camping in sub-zero temperatures in a region that is highly crevasse-prone. The team used radar systems to detect crevasses before setting up their camps where they had to stay inside metal containers.
 
 “The ice core collected from the region will be stored in a container at -20C and transported to our laboratory in Goa, which also maintains the same temperature. We will get these samples by May and further analysis will begin after that,” Ravichandran said.
 
 
