KOLKATA: The   on Thursday sent a strong signal to the rickshaw-pullers plying in   to behave properly with passengers. The message comes two days after a 25-yearold marketing executive was allegedly molested, abused, dragged out of a car and forced to touch the feet of a rickshawpuller followed by an argument over the fare from Karunamoyee to a tea joint opposite   near City Centre on Tuesday.

 
 Some local rickshaw-pullers — led by Karunamoyee rickshaw stand union secretary Nirapada Manna — met   mayor Sabyasachi Dutta at   on Wednesday evening and discussed the incident. “I told them that the rickshaw-pullers must not stir any trouble with the passengers regarding fare or any other issue. What happened on Tuesday cannot be repeated,” Dutta said to 
 on Thursday.
 
 Manna said that they went to meet the mayor after the four rickshaw-pullers accused in Tuesday’s incident were arrested. “We are ashamed about what had happened. We will definitely cooperate with the civic authorities to come up with a fixed fare chart and look into other issues,” he said.
 
 The mayor said that a panel of civic officials would be formed under an MMiC to look into the regularisation rickshaw fare and all transport related issues. “The team would look into irregularities and complaints related to rickhsaws, totos and e-rikshaws,” said Dutta. We will decide on who among the seven MMiCs of the civic body would lead the team.
 
 On Wednesday, Dutta had said that the civic authorities would chalk out a fixed rate chart for rickshaws plying on different routes and every rickshaw-puller would need to have a proper licence to ply in the township.
 
 At present, the civic body does not have any proper section to look after transport related issues. Earlier, the Bidhannagar municipality had set up a transport sub-committee asking all councillors to submit reports on their respective wards — mentioning the number of autos and rickshaw stands to regularise them with proper licence. But the plan never materalised. The present civic body does not have any official figure on how many rickshaws ply in Salt Lake and surrounding areas with proper licence.
 
 “Just like there are separate departments for water supply, lighting & parks, solid waste management and health, a panel on transport is also required to come up with fare charts for rickshaws, regulate them and hear passenger compliants over issues such as unregulated fare charged by rickshaws and totos,” said a civic official.
 
 
