MUMBAI: More members of the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI’s)   ( ) appear to be inclined in favour of a rate hike, going by the minutes of the April meeting released on Thursday. The comments by the committee members reveal a distinctly hawkish stance compared to the actual reading of the policy statement.

 
 While   executive director   has been a known inflation hawk who has voted in favour of a rate hike in the past, RBI deputy governor   also indicated that he will push for a tighter policy in June. In his comments, Acharya said, “I am, however, likely to shift decisively to vote for a beginning of ‘withdrawal of accommodation’ in the next MPC meeting in June. Reinforcement of inflation-targeting credibility that such a shift would signal is crucial in my view for prudent macroeconomic management, on both the domestic and external fronts.”
 
  principal economist Aditi Nayar said, “Today’s minutes suggest that a back-ended rate hike in 2018 remains a possibility, if headline inflation exceeds the trajectory set out by the MPC. As a result, bond yields are likely to harden in the immediate term.”
 
 While RBI governor Urjit Patel has struck a balance, he has highlighted fixing of minimum support prices (MSP) by the government for crops and international crude oil prices as factors that will determine the course of inflation. In his comments, the governor has also come out as rather optimistic on growth. “There are clearer signs of revival of investment activity. The manufacturing sector is strengthening, which is also reflected in higher capacity utilisation. Improving global demand and trade should boost manufacturing and investment activity, going forward. Leading indicators also point to the strengthening of the services sector; purchasing managers’ index (PMI) for services moved into the expansion zone again in March,” said Patel.
 
 Axis Capital economist Prithviraj Srinivas said, “The MPC is shifting towards a hawkish bias, but is waiting to see how risks to growth and inflation unfold. The two inflation boogeymen troubling the MPC is oil and MSP.” He added that going by the minutes, the probability of a rate hike next year has increased. “The size of the MSP policy will determine the duration of the pause. Too generous and the RBI will have to consider sacrificing urban consumption and investment growth to meet its inflation objective,” he said.
 
 As announced in the April 5 policy, of the six members, Patra was the only one to vote in favour of a rate hike. The other members besides Patel and Acharya who voted for a pause were Chetan Ghate, Pami Dua and Ravindra Dholakia.
 
 
