CHENNAI: Commonplace errors in  , including content that can wrongly influence the thinking of children and mistakes in spelling and information, have sent alarm bells ringing in the state school education department. To prevent such mistakes creeping into the new texts for the upcoming academic year, the   state board has introduced a system where teams of experts double check the content before printing.

 The new textbooks for Classes I, VI, IX and XI, based on the revamped syllabus, are now at the printing stage. 
 
 On several occasions in the past, Tamil Nadu curriculum framework committee chairman   said, political and religious overtones have creeped into textbooks across different boards and it is important to have a check at every stage. Anandakrishnan, a former vice-chancellor of Anna University, said the content going into the new books was being thoroughly reviewed by two sets of people — one comprising professionals in the subject concerned and the other of experts on society and its dynamics to be able to add perspective.
 
 Several parents believe that some of the errors noticed in textbooks, both of state and central boards, could wrongly shape their children’s perspective. A recent example that they shared with members of the curriculum framework committee was of a CBSE English workbook exercise about doctors. One of the passages in the exercise reads: “Once a doctor was called in to see an old woman. The doctor treated her badly. So the family of the old woman caught him by throat and tied him up to a big stone, and then threw him into the running stream. They wanted to punish him for this careless treatment...” 
 
 Whether directly or indirectly, such content can influence children’s minds and set them thinking that it could be a joke to tie up a doctor and attack him for treatment that went wrong, said Priya, a parent. What are we trying to make the children think,” she questioned. 
 
 Last year, the issue of gender bias surfaced on the topic of a debate in a stateboard textbook: “Should girls be educated.”
 
 This, academicians feel, brings up the question of responsible printing and verification at micro and macro levels. Questions of printing information relevant to the state, publishing insensitive content, use of language, cultural differences, and material that can form perceptions for a child need to be raised before matter goes into print, say experts.
 
 Others say schools too have an important relay in such matters. Malathi of   said that even if irresponsible content crept into texts, schools could still take a call on dealing with it in their own way. “Teachers can choose to not carry out such exercises or conduct debates on certain inappropriate content to bring out viewpoints among students on the matter, she said. Teachers will have to have healthy discussions to make children understand and develop a conscience and sensitivity, she said.
 
 
