PUDUCHERRY: Chief minister   said he will lead a delegation of ministers and MLAs and call on the President, Prime Minister and Union home minister at New Delhi to lodge a complaint against lieutenant governor   for ‘abusing her powers’ and for overriding the legislative assembly and the elected government on several aspects. 

 Speaking to reporters on Wednesday,   lashed out at Bedi declaring that she has been interfering in the day-to-day affairs of the government with the sole intention of bringing ill-will and bad name to the   government and tarnish its image in the Union territory. He was of the strong opinion that even the President cannot intervene once an elected government assumes office. 
 
 “The President can exercise his powers in the absence of legislative assembly and an elected government. The President shall cease to exercise his powers once elected government assumes charge. The President’s agent (lieutenant governor) has no authority to interfere in the administration. It is misuse and abuse of power. It is overriding the legislative assembly and the elected government to bring ill-will and bad name to the government,” Narayanasamy said. 
 
 He pointed out that even the lieutenant governor of New Delhi – where the law and order, land, services and finance subjects do not come under the state government – has not been visiting government offices, holding review meetings with the officials and passing direct orders to the officials. 
 
 He said none of the governors and lieutenant governors of the states and Union territories barring   and   had visited the government offices and reviewed implementation of various projects. He said as per the Constitution, lieutenant governors do not have any authority to hold review meetings and pass direct orders to the officials. 
 
 “Lieutenant governor can act only on the aid and advice of the council of ministers on the subjects in the state list and on the issues related to day-to-day affairs of the administration. On the subjects under concurrent list (state and Centre), the lieutenant governor must consult the chief minister and take a decision with the concurrence of the chief minister. Lieutenant governor can refer the issues on which a consensus could not be reached with the chief minister to the President for a final decision. On subjects under the Union list, the central government will take a decision,” he said. 
 
 He said he will call on the leaders of various political parties in New Delhi and apprise them on the constant interferences of the lieutenant governor in the administration of the elected government.
 
 Puducherry: As the Congress government stepped up its attack over her style of functioning, Puducherry lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi on Wednesday defended her periodic field visits to review government schemes, saying it was ‘most rewarding, most energising and most refreshing’.
 
 “Going to departments and sitting with the rank and file, reviewing and thinking together helps a mutual lift as it did in the visit to PWD. Such visits are most rewarding, most energising and most refreshing,” she said in a tweet. Her tweet came hours after chief minister V Narayanasamy said he would soon meet the President and Prime Minister to apprise them of her ‘undemocratic’ working style.
 
 Bedi had on Tuesday camped at the office of the PWD chief engineer, along with the secretary and other officials of the department and of Raj Nivas.She reviewed projects executed and also scheduled for implementation and the steps the department should take up for infrastructure development.
 
 Bedi in a WhatsApp message later said she had invited PWD minister A Namassivayam for next review meeting in the department in the last week of February and that he had accepted it. 
 
