SECUNDERABAD: Railways authorities are just a step away from laying tracks between Sanathnagar and   under the Multi-Modal Transport System (MMTS) Phase II.

 A survey taken up by the local defence authorities to allot nearly 65-acre defence land near Suchitra (Secunderabad Cantonment periphery) has just been completed.
 
 The Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), Hyderabad, waited for nearly 10 months to get a clearance from the ministry of defence (MoD) to conduct a survey. The RVNL authorities also conducted a series of review meetings with the Telangana government to speed up the survey.
 
 According to a proposal sent by railways, they need defence land to lay the second railway track between Bhudevi Nagar and Suchitra under MMTS phase-II, that will connect the   stretch.
 
 “Nearly three to five months were taken to complete the 65-acre defence land survey. We have sent a detailed report after the survey along with a sketch of railway track to the MoD. Once the MoD gives a clearance, the defence land will be allotted to RVNL,” a defence source said.
 
 The length of the doubling works to be taken up is 3.5 kilometres. Currently, goods train services are continuing on a single track and when the doubling works are completed, the railways will run passenger trains between Sanathnagar and Moula Ali.
 
 Over one lakh employees working in Hi-Tec City, Madhapur, Gachibowi and  , will benefit. Over 90 percent employees stay at Suchitra, Neredmet, Malkajgiri and adjoining residential areas and will need help to move by two and four wheelers daily.
 
 “The survey on defence land has reached its final stage. It’s a a great relief for people living in Malkajgiri, Alwal, Kapra, Medchal and adjoining areas in GHMC periphery,” said B T Srinivasan, one of the representatives of Residential Welfare Associations (RWAs) of Malkajgiri.
 
 Another major proposal of   railway station is long pending with the ministry of railways.
 
 This is the only place where the two tracks, Moula Ali-Malkajgiri-Sitaphalmandi and Moula Ali to Sanathnagar bypass, are going parallel and it is very convenient for commuters to go to various places, including Shamshabad Airport.
 
 “Reaching the final stage is good news for thousands of commuters. The doubling work is important and will benefit all of us,” said one of the members of MMTS travellers group, K Vijay Raghavan.
 
 
