CHENNAI: A central team which recently inspected schools in   has found that nearly   function with only one teacher who handles all the subjects for students from Class I to VIII. An adverse student-teacher ratio (STR) was also reported in nearly 1,480 other schools funded primarily by the state government. 

 This in turn has affected the quality of education and learning environment of government school students at elementary and middle school levels, says the report, a copy of which is available with TOI. The average score by these students in the National Achievement Survey was only around 40%.
 
  
  
 
 The high STR in these schools is a gross violation of Section 25 of the   and Compulsory Education Act (RTE), the report added. The Right of Children for Free and Compulsory Education Act says that the ratio should be around 30:1 per school at upper primary level.
 
 The central team also noted that more than 37% of upper primary schools in Tamil Nadu do not have subject teachers as mandated by the RTE. There is only one science teacher for every 57 students in the state. 
 
  and   districts have been identified as two backward districts in terms of STR.
 
 A total of 3,800 teacher posts are vacant across government and aided schools at elementary and middle school levels and the state government has not shown any intent to fill these posts last year (2015-16) as the overall student-teacher ratio is comfortable at 25:1, the report added. 
 
 The same issue, along with classroom-teacher ratio, was raised by the central government in 2013-14 and the state subsequently restricted the number of sections in each standard, which in turn helped the figures shoot up, said a government school teacher from Coimbatore, requesting anonymity. 
 
 Tamil Nadu school education department authorities argue that the state has redeployed more than 2,000 teachers last year to primary and upper primary schools where there was a demand.
 
 There has been a significant drop in enrolment of students in government schools and even if teachers were recruited, the overall STR would tend to be on the positive side, say experts.
 
 The dropout rate in TN schools was 1%, i.e. more than 13,000 students stepped out of government schools in Tamil Nadu last year. 
 
 
