KOLKATA: Bengal chief minister   on Friday used the Rajya Sabha nominations to drive a wedge between Congress and CPM, even as both parties’ state legislative wings were “discussing” the possibility of selecting a common candidate.

 Banerjee named four   leaders for the four Rajya Sabha seats that the party is sure of winning from Bengal. But it was her second decision, to support Congress candidate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, that may help take care of several of her niggling problems and keep the secular opposition in Bengal divided — and confounded — forever.
 
 This decision, for one, left Bengal CPM in total disarray vis-a-vis its off-and-on relationship with Congress. CPM, which risks becoming a largely one-state party following the recent Tripura defeat, has been having a vexed internal dialogue on the issue, with divisions even within state and district committees over whether to accept the Congress’s hand.
 
 Friday’s move has also taken care of the strident anti-Trinamool elements within the state Congress unit for the time being. Banerjee has shown the likes of Bengal Congress president Adhir Chowdhury that she has a direct line with the Congress high command and can strike a deal with the Gandhis as and when she chooses.
 
 Trinamool circles here, as if to rub it in, indicated that the “request” to help with one RS seat came directly from the Congress leadership. 
 
 A senior Trinamool leader said: “The CM had more or less made up her mind to field five Trinamool candidates. This sudden change — to field four party candidates and leave one berth for the Congress — has to do with the Congress request.”
 
 CPM’s initial reaction to Banerjee’s move indicated it did not know what had hit it. “The Left and Congress legislative parties were discussing how to nominate a common candidate. We were thinking of selecting an educationist or a social worker but, before we could make up our mind, the Congress high command unilaterally announced a candidate,” Left Front chairman   said.
 
 The Left Front nominated veteran CPM leader Rabin Deb for one RS seat but, with the bloc having only 32 votes in the Bengal Assembly (49 first-preference votes are needed to ensure one RS berth), it may be left without too many options.
 
 Bengal Congress president Chowdhury blamed the LF for the “discussions” failing to reach a definite conclusion. “We asked them to support our candidate but they wanted to field an independent candidate. I called up   on Thursday and told him to reconsider their decision. So I immediately agreed when Madam (Sonia Gandhi) called me up later on Thursday evening and told me that the central leadership had decided to nominate Singhvi,” Chowdhury said, trying to explain what had happened behind the scene. “He is our party member and a competent candidate,” Chowdhury said.
 
 But he put up a braver face than the LF: “It is the Trinamool’s choice; we have not asked them to support our candidate.”
 
 Congress has 44 votes in the Bengal Assembly and is five short of the 49 first-preference votes required to book an RS seat. But the Trinamool, which has 211 MLAs, will actually have 15 more votes after it sends four of its own candidates to Parliament’s Upper House (it needs 196 MLAs for four RS berths); these 15 votes can be Singhvi’s lifeline. Singhvi was an RS member from Rajasthan.
 
 
