MUMBAI:   of Malwani, Gorai, Jogeshwari and   will be transformed in the coming decades as the   has earmarked 2,100 hectares of   (redesignated as Special Development Zones) and 320 hectares of salt pan land for constructing 10 lakh   under the ambitious Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana. These areas today have no civic infrastructure such as roads, sanitation network, school and hospital.

 Additional chief secretary (Housing) Sanjay Kumar said five lakh homes will be constructed by 2022.
 
 There is, however, fear that the government may end up constructing hovels with poor quality of life while benefiting builders through incentive floor space index (FSI). Sitaram Shelar, member, Hamara Shahar Mumbai Abhiyan, said putting up the poor in areas with no infrastructure and further degrading their quality of life is a big disservice to the city and the poor who contribute to its economy. “Instead the government must upgrade the infrastructure in the areas which they now inhabit,” he said.
 
 Housing activist and architect P K Das said any construction on salt pan land would have a high cost of construction given the salinity and it would defeat the idea of affordable housing. “The potential of creating affordable housing through redevelopment projects is very high and government must focus on it,” he said.
 
 Yomesh Rao, a member of Practising Engineers, Architects, Town Planners Association, said there should have been an Environment Impact Assessment Study before deciding on housing in Special Development Zones and Salt Pan lands. “Salt pans are a concern. There is a need to regulate development on SDZ as the environment will be affected. Mumbai may see more incidents of flooding,” he said.
 
 Municipal Commissioner  , allaying fears of hovels being created, said civic infrastructure will be created simultaneously and the onus on creating infrastructure within the layouts will be on the developer. Urban development secretary Nitin Kareer said these layouts will have sale component, which will ensure that developers create infrastructure.
 
 
