WASHINGTON: US President Donald   is barreling towards a confrontation with his own Justice Department after his lead attorney indicated that the President would ignore any subpoena from FBI Special Counsel Robert Mueller and could take the Fifth Amendment to avoid testifying under oath in the   collusion probe that has now become entangled in the Stormy Daniels affair.
 
 In a flurry of tweets on Monday morning Trump raged that there were “unrevealed Conflicts of Interest” in the Russia probe, following up his assertion that several investigators from the FBI team are partisan Democratic sympathisers. 
 
 He appeared to be referring to reports that some members of Mueller’s team had donated money to the Democratic Party and the Hillary campaign in their individual capacity.
 
 The President also attempted to the put the probe beyond the legal and judicial ambit into the political orbit, asking, “Is this Phony Witch Hunt going to go on even longer so it wrongfully impacts the Mid-Term Elections, which is what the Democrats always intended? Republicans better get tough and smart before it is too late!”
 
 “The Russia Witch Hunt is rapidly losing credibility. House Intelligence Committee found No Collusion, Coordination or anything else with Russia. So now the Probe says OK, what else is there? How about Obstruction for a made up, phony crime. There is no O, it’s called Fighting Back,” Trump said in a barrage of tweets, referring to the GOP-led Congressional panel absolving him and his campaign of any wrongdoing and instead zeroing on Democrat’s effort to implicate Trump.
 
 The partisan political battle is seemingly headed for legal and constitutional challenges in courts that are themselves politicized to a large degree. Trump referred to proceedings in a federal court last week where one judge questioned the nature of Mueller’s probe, suggesting it was aimed at implicating the President.
 
 “You don’t really care about Mr. Manafort’s bank fraud. … What you really care about is what information Mr. Manafort could give you that would reflect on Mr. Trump or lead to his prosecution or impeachment.” Judge T.S.Ellit said in course of a hearing about the FBI case against Trump’s former campaign manager Paul Manafort.
 
 While the court’s observation came as some relief to the beleaguered President, his new attorney Rudy Giuliani has been going on a media blitzkrieg over the past five days, making more than a score of TV appearances and going into contortions to explain, rationalize, and normalize the fact that Trump paid off a porn star for her silence over a one-night stand she claims they had and he denies.
 
 Giuliani, a former Mayor of New York who lost a Senate election to   and was one of Trump’s early supporters, went so far as to suggest the $ 130,000 Trump paid (which he had denied any knowledge of) was too little if there really was anything to the porn stars claim; if it was true she would have claimed millions.
 
 Amid hilarious jokes that followed over how many false claims Trump would have paid from his porn star pay off fund, particularly after Giuliani said there may have been more women Trump had paid off, he made the more serious assertion of executive privilege while arguing that the President does not have to comply with a subpoena from Mueller and he cannot rule out the White House occupant taking the fifth – a constitutional right that allows citizens to decline self-incriminating testimony.
 
  
 
 Such an eventuality would be unprecedented in U.S Presidential history and will almost certainly be tested in the Supreme Court, where, legal experts warned, the executive would fail. In previous cases, notably involving   in the Watergate, the Court has ruled that the President has to submit to subpoena unless the matter involved national security.
 
  
 
 Trump is now pitching the November mid-term Congressional election as a virtual referendum on the legitimacy of his Presidency, going on frequently campaign style rally of his supporters where he exhorts them to help the GOP retain the House. Democrats taking control of the House could lead to his impeachment.
 
  
 
 The U.S President is also helped by dazzling figures on the economic front, from greater job creation to the booming stock market to soaring home prices. He is also getting credit for foreign policy breakthroughs, notably on the Korean peninsula, and for a stronger stand on the Iran nuclear deal that he is threatening to jettison unless it is reworked.
 
