AJMER: Following the   pattern in Ajmer   by-elections,   candidate Raghu Sharma in last two days went to different temples from Pushkar to Kishangarh and to   showing confidence in Hindu religion.

 On other hand,   candidate Ramswarup Lamba is trying to grab the pulse of urban BJP workers and holding meetings with BJP wing leaders since last two days. Lamba is aware of the rural BJP set-up but finding it difficult to connect with urban party workers.
 
 Both BJP and Congress candidates will file their nomination on the last day on Wednesday and both parties are trying to showcase their strength.
 
 PCC chief   and Avinash Pandey reached Ajmer on Tuesday evening where they will remain for campaigning. It is also expected that chief minister Vasundhra Raje will reach Ajmer on Wednesday at the time of filing of the nomination of BJP candidate and also address a gathering in Patel Madan.
 
 Meanwhile, Raghu Sharma on Monday went to Pushkar to offer prayers in the Brahma Temple and later in evening went to dargah of Khwaja Moinuddin Chisty. On Tuesday, he went to Kachariya Peethaeshwar and also went to Salemabad to get blessings from Shriji Shamsharan Devacharya. Sharma was accompanied by local Congress workers at these places.
 
 On other hand, Lamba in last two days met members of BJP organizations and on Tuesday held a meeting with BJP mandal adhyaksha of Ajmer city. Lamba is accompanied by BJP leaders who were with his father late Sanwar Lal Jat. All of them are from rural region, mostly Nasirabad and Bhinai, and are not aware about the urban set-up of BJP.
 
 Both the candidates will file their nomination on Wednesday and prepare for a massive rally in Ajmer. BJP rural organization is gathering people from villages as well as from the city to make the rally a success. Senior leaders of state level as well as of district are prepared and expecting CM Raje to reach on Wednesday. The Patel Stadium was searched by police and security tightened in anticipation of Raje’s visit.
 
 Congress is also preparing for a big show on Wednesday. Pilot came to Ajmer and stayed at Haribhau Upadhyaya Nagar where he was holding meetings with several Congress leaders to prepare the strategy of nomination rally.
 
 Congress is stressing on unity and, therefore, several leaders will assemble who have been asked to bring large crowds. 
 
 
