NEW DELHI: Starting April this year, the district magistrate of Namsai in   will keep a close watch on how his counterpart in Jaisalmer in Rajasthan is doing. These two districts are among 115 chosen by the government as 'aspirational' to develop in a focussed and monitored manner. Spread across 28 states these districts, some of the most backward in the country, need urgent improvement on 48 parameters of health, nutrition, education, skill formation, infrastructure and financial inclusion.

 Following the success of state rankings on ease of doing business, the NITI Aayog has prepared a new template, where districts will be ranked on a real-time basis for their performance vis a vis the most developed ones. A district's monthly score will depend on how boys and girls fare in maths or language in schools or how many pregnant women were anaemic.
 
 While a large part of the data will be provided by the districts, agencies such as the Bill &   Foundation and the   will be tasked with quarterly surveys to gauge if progress is actually being made in areas such as acute malnutrition or female literacy rates. "The idea is to benchmark these districts with the best in the state and the country," explained an officer in NITI Aayog, the agency which is preparing the monitoring tools.
 
 The process started with identifying the districts, which include the 35 infested with Left-wing extremists and are being monitored by the home ministry. Another 30 districts will be monitored by the NITI Aayog while the remaining 50 have been assigned to different ministries ranging from panchayati raj to health and HRD.
 
 Instead of following a topdown approach district magistrates will be tasked with preparing the strategy for improving each parameter. They will have two mentors or prabharis — a joint secretary or additional secretary rank officer appointed by the Centre and one secretary rank official from the state government.
 
 "The DM will decide if she wants to first focus on improving nutritional standard or institutional delivery, depending on which one is easier to implement," explained the officer. The implementation is being left to the DM although the prabharis will visit the district under there charge at least six times a year.
 
 The prabharis will report the hurdles to a soon-to-be-appointed empowered committee headed by NITI Aayog CEO   with expenditure secretary AN Jha and other secretaries as members.
 
 The UPA too had undertaken a similar exercise, but its approach did not include rankings and hand-holding at the implementation level. Availability of funds is not likely to be an issue. Although initial feedback has suggested that timely release of funds under various schemes is a major complaint across districts, but availability of funds is not a constraint. Allocation under various government schemes range from Rs 600-700 crore for smaller districts to Rs 1,100-1,200 crore for the larger ones. However, in case funds do fall short, the government could tap into CSR funds available with companies.
 
