KOLKATA: The family of 14, which finds itself in the mid-dle of Kolkata’s first public “ghar wapsi” row, is actually from   and does not have anything to do with   or Kolkata.

 Hussain Ali, head of the family showcased by Hindu Samhati on an Esplanade dais last Wednesday as the city’s first public display of ‘ghar wapsi’, told TOI on Saturday that they were brought all the way from   in Assam to announce their “re-conversion to Hinduism”. The family’s interview with TOI was arranged by Hindu Samhati at one of their city offices on Saturday afternoon. TOI could not independently verify the family’s claims.
 
 The family had “voluntarily” contacted a Hindu Samhati organiser in Assam’s Silchar after “being systematically isolated in the community in their village”, Ali said, without disclosing the name of their village in Silchar. “We do not want to be identified as the situation in our village is not conducive,” he explained.
 
 
  
 The immediate cause of their re-conversion to Hinduism was the return of his married daughter, Minara Beg-um, to his home after her husband gave her “instant triple talaq” when he came to know that she was born of a Hindu mother. 
 
 “My wife, Mayna Bibi, used to be a Hindu before I married her. She converted to my religion after our marriage. My son-in-law did not know this when he married my daughter and flew into a rage when he somehow learnt about this last year,” Ali said in the presence of his wife and daughter and other relatives.
 
 The problems in their neighbourhood got aggravated after that, Ali said. “Many of our neighbours stopped talking to us after my daughter returned home. Some of them knew of my wife’s Hindu past and there were some problems but my daughter’s return aggravated the situation,” he added, explaining why he had to contact the Hindu Samhati.
 
 The family said it had already visited a notary public in Kolkata to legalise their change of religion to Hinduism. “I could have done it before a judicial magistrate in Silchar. But I feared a retaliation from my community there,” Ali explained, adding: “We need to change our names before a judicial magistrate and give insertions in the press announcing the change of religion.”
 
 The incident has triggered an outcry among the city’s intelligentsia that sees it as a “display of majoritarianism”. But Hindu Samhati president Debtanu Bhattacharya found nothing wrong in organising the re-conversion. “We have done 300 such re-conversions across the country and rehabilitated them in the mainstream,” Bhattacharya said. Supreme Court and high court judgements do not come in the way of an individual’s changing religion if s/he does it with “a bona fide intention”, say experts.
 
 Ali recounted that he had come with his Muslim father and settled in Assam but, again, he would not say where he and his father had come from. He also insisted that he had forgotten his grandfather’s name and religion.
 
 
