Ishaan Khatter’s debut comes as a breath of fresh air. While we witness a lot of hype and hoopla around the launch of most star kids, Ishaan’s first step into Bollywood seems to be grounded in reality, much like his debut film, ' ' ('BTC'), which is also widely-acclaimed Iranian filmmaker Majid Majidi’s first Indian film. While Ishaan hails from a family of prolific actors, the young talent says he wasn’t “influenced to pursue acting”. Nonetheless, it’s in his genes and he takes pride in that. In a chat with BT, he talks about working with an accomplished director like Majidi, the influence of a strong mother and a rock solid brother in his life, and how it has shaped his value system and ideologies. Excerpts...

 
 
 I have been passionate about dancing and acting as long as I can remember. It was a natural progression to make it my passion, pursue it, learn more about it and develop myself as a performer. However, I was not influenced to pursue acting. It was entirely my decision. Both my brother and mother are actors and dancers. Of course, my mom, who is a Kathak exponent, is the most established dancer amongst the three of us. The fact that my family is so accomplished translates into more responsibility for me. However, I have never felt nervous about it; instead, it has always been about eagerness and curiosity. There was so much to achieve, while discovering myself as an actor. It was only later that I realised that I am very comfortable in front of the camera and feel at home on the set.
 
 
 
 You can’t imagine, there is so much to learn. I made it a point to be on the set every day, even if I wasn’t shooting, hoping if I could be of any assistance. Even if not, I would just give him a massage when he had time off, which became a tradition. He wouldn’t go one day without a massage. He is a father figure in my life. Once he opens up to you, he is very affectionate. Majidi sir is a complete family man and that’s why he portrays relationships the way he does in his films. It’s fascinating to watch him work. He told me, ‘I know you want to be a great actor, but focus on being a good human being first and everything else will follow’.
 
 
 
 Karan Johar sir wanted to meet me (for 'Dhadak') and the one way he could do that was through my brother. Perhaps, he saw some videos or footage of mine on social media and thought that I was of an eligible age to be a part of the kind of films that he wanted to make. It was his decision not to audition me for his project. Majidi sir did not know about my background when he cast me. In fact, it would have hampered my chances had he known about it because he wasn’t keen on casting anybody who brought any kind of baggage to the part. I got 'BTC' on the basis of the audition and I feel that have I earned the part. I am glad my journey has begun this way.
 
 
 
 I discussed it with my mother and brother. My mother was over the moon when I bagged this film. She is a huge admirer of Majidi sir’s cinema. She told me, ‘Don’t ask any questions, just go ahead and surrender yourself’. My brother hasn’t seen much of Majidi sir’s work. He was very happy, but he was also insistent that I need to handle it the right way because the film I was offered before this was Karan Johar’s ('Dhadak'). Although I was not officially signed, I had given him my word. I told Karan sir about 'BTC' and he was gracious enough to understand the kind of opportunity it was, and allowed me to work in it as my first film. I don’t believe in the idea of a conventional debut and don’t understand why anybody would feel that it’s necessary to be launched in a certain kind of film. It is not necessary that a person is the way his public image is perceived to be. People presume that just because I am Shahid Kapoor’s brother, I must have studied in an international school, gone out on foreign vacations and had a certain kind of upbringing. But the truth is quite different and I am very proud of where I come from. My mother has brought me up in a manner that has allowed me to retain my values, ideologies and philosophies. I was let loose, just enough to develop an individual personality.
 
 
 
 He is like a sage sometimes. He has a philosophical side to him that a lot of people are not exposed to, where he says things like, ‘Beta, come let me tell you about life’. So, he imparts a lot of wisdom and shares his experience. Mostly, it’s me listening, while sometimes he is interested in listening to my perspective about things, too. One of the most significant things my brother told me was to always be honest, as that will translate on camera. He says, ‘Chase honesty and authenticity. Be sincere in the moment. Try and find an honest moment rather than achieving a certain kind of effect’. Actors can become technically sound, but honesty always translates even if you are not doing a lot of things on camera.
 
 
 
 He likes to use the experience card a lot. His closing line is ‘Vadda kaun?’ when he doesn’t win an argument (laughs!). However, he is not overtly dominating. We come from a very liberal family. He has strong opinions, but he doesn’t always share them, unless I am seeking his views. I have watched his films repeatedly and have learnt a lot by observing him. Since I am close to him, I know where a certain emotion is coming from.
 
 
 
 I strongly believe that your work speaks for itself. I would never compare myself with him. If others do, they have a right to their opinion and freedom of choice. It will be unfair to pit me against my brother as he is somebody with 15 years of experience. There is no way I can perceive him as competition, as he is family. I don’t find any sense in these comparisons.
 
 
 
 My growing-up years have been largely influenced by my mother. I have had the opportunity to understand women through her. She is strong, liberal, independent, and she has made sacrifices to see her children bloom. She is immensely talented and she has seen fame at a very young age. Her personality is influenced by the changes and circumstances in her life. She has been a single mother and I have seen the hardships a single mother has to go through to raise her children. But she survived them and emerged stronger. At the same time, she has the passion and fire in her belly that she has passed down to her children. All the things that are good in me, I have inherited from her. My opinion of women is very high. Sometimes, I feel they are more evolved as human beings than men. I highly admire and respect women who have an identity and opinion of their own. I would like to be as much, if not more, supporting to the women I love.
 
 
 
 I was very young when my parents separated, and later, my mother remarried. For six years, I stayed with my stepfather (Ustad Raza Ali Khan) and my mother. Then, they separated and I saw her go through two broken marriages and her struggle to keep things together. She would often put her own feelings in the back seat to take care of others. That’s an act of selflessness. For many years, I saw her go through emotional strain and difficulties. She had more on her plate than she could deal with while taking care of us. I often saw her go through changes in her personality. She is a lovely person, that’s why it’s important for me to give her all the comfort, happiness and satisfaction I can. I have great admiration for her. I can’t say that my childhood was easy or difficult, and I can’t relieve those days, but what I can say is that it made me grow up faster than other kids. It taught me a lot and made me the person I am today. I am emotionally strong, passionate, empathetic and sensitive towards others, especially the people I love. As for my father, I developed a friendly equation with him once I grew up. He has seen 'BTC' and has loved it. Even today, my mother and father are good friends, like they were before their marriage. That has helped me a lot.
 
