Panaji: A special investigation team ( ) probing the Rs 35,000 crore illegal mining cases on Saturday filed the first chargesheet that said former chief minister Digambar Kamat and 15 others caused a loss of Rs 135 crore to the state exchequer.

 The 700-page chargesheet was filed before the special court against Kamat, government officials and others for allowing condonation of delay in filing application for renewal of mining leases, which resulted in loss to the state exchequer worth Rs 135 crore.
 
 The SIT has recorded statements of 25 witness in the case. TOI was the first to report about the SIT filing a chargesheet in the case.
 
 Crime branch SP Karthik Kashyap told TOI that the chargesheet was filed in the main case after investigating illegal condonation of delay in filing application for renewal of mining leases, theft of iron ore, criminal conspiracy and wrongful loss of revenue to the state exchequer.
 
 Kashyap said Kamat, who was the then mines and chief minister , had allowed condonation of delay by overruling observations of two IAS officers. He said, as per the law, the state government had no powers to allow condonation of delay.
 
 Kashyap said taking advantage of condonation, Margao-based Kadnekar family, that has stakes in mining in Goa, had entered into an agreement with  , thereby transferring the rights of lease without the Centre and state government’s approval and allowing them to mine iron ore.
 
 Kashyap said Magnum Minerals was formed for the specific purpose of extracting iron ore. He said as per figures provided by  , there was a loss to the tune of Rs 135 crore to the state exchequer. However, the SIT is further investigating the exact quantity of iron ore extracted by conducting a detailed survey with the help of the mines department.
 
 On August 19, 2013, the crime branch had registered an FIR against politicians, bureaucrats, mine owners and officials of the mines department and others identified in the three reports. SIT PI   investigated the case.
 
 The FIR was registered under   sections 120(b) (conspiracy) and 166 (public servant disobeying law), sections 13(1) (d), 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act and certain sections of the Mines and Mineral Development Act, Mineral Concession Rules, Mineral Conservation and Development Rules and Goa Prevention of Illegal Mining, Transportation, Storage of Minerals Rules, 2004.
 
 
