New Delhi: For those aspiring to study at  , average scores in   will no longer be a hindrance. The   College, in collaboration with   ( ), is starting a Pathway programme at five centres for undergraduate studies in business studies and commerce in India. This programme will help students cover the first year of education in India and catch up with the curriculum before they move on to the second year on Monash campus in Melbourne. 

 The pathway programme, initially is going to start with business studies and commerce. But, according to Monash College CEO Jo Mithen, they are looking at expanding to more disciplines over time. “Currently we are running out of five TPL centres, including Delhi, Mumbai and Pune. But we will increase it to other urban cities and bring in more disciplines,” said Anish Srikrishna, TLP president. The objective, said Anish, was to make global quality of education more accessible and affordable to students in India. “We are trying to ensure that the kind of quality that is there at the Monash mother campus is also available to kids who have just passed out of Class XII in an affordable and less disruptive way,” said Anish, referring to the culture shock students go through in a foreign land.
 
 Even though they’ll be taught in India by Indian professors, the curriculum, said Mithen, was exactly the same. “The course is exactly the same. They will have the same exams, same substance. The quality mechanisms in place are there to ensure that students have the same quality of education here. Parents, too, will be at ease knowing that the transition is not so stark,” she said.
 
 While students will have to score 70% to be eligible for transfer to Melbourne campus, those unable to make it to Monash or preferring a different campus will have options in other Australian and Malaysian universities. 
 
 For students who make it to Monash, there will be a mechanism to get placed in the industry with the help of a similar pathways programme.“While the placement rate for those who take internships is 100%, we cannot guarantee employment. But Monash is a leading university and its degree programmes are highly respected, and these dimensions help students land jobs in the market,” Mithen added.
 
 
