MUMBAI: When   was heading to Goa to participate in the sub-junior national   tournament, she was carrying the pressure of expectations - not from her parents or coach but from the state body,  .

 Many parents had questioned the selection of Diya Chitale in the state team but she proved everybody wrong by not only winning the title, but winning a treble - the singles, the doubles and the team title.
 
 The best part of her victory, as Diya calls it, was winning after playing the qualifying rounds. "I have won titles earlier, but this was special," said the 14-year-old who is supported by the Olympic Gold Quest.
 
 What makes Diya's achievement stand out is her mental
 
 fortitude, a trait very rarely seen in players so young. Her coach,  , the brother of Sanil, says he rarely sees such attitude among players, who are willing to go that extra mile not only in training by in mental makeover.
 
 "Not many players will want to adapt to a European/ Asian diet. But Diya is different, especially for somebody so young. Her dedication and determination is so good that if she continues this way, I can predict a very bright future for her," says Shetty.
 
 "Her focus is remarkable. She wants to achieve success and I see a very mature head on a14-year-oldshoulders."
 
 There is little surprise that even the   supports the talented youngster. Recently, she went on a training stint to Germany where she and her coach Shetty were under the guidance of  .
 
 "What you get to learn from the Germans is technique that helps you in a crisis. Peter has been coaching for 40 years and he was impressed with the attitude of Diya," said Shetty.
 
 Shetty is most impressed with Diya's understanding of a ball game. "Her dynamic understanding of how a spherical object moves is far superior to others. To top it she understands the language of table tennis very well."
 
 Diya, who is ranked No 4 in her age category, now needs to play at the top level to maintain her ranking. "I have seen talented boys making the transition from top ranking to top 100 ranking in the world. But when it comes to women, they just slump. They fall beyond the150 mark in many cases. And I hope Diya bucks that trend," says Shetty.
 
 Shetty feels Diya has it in her to go that extra mile to achieve success. Maybe it is time the girls dominated the table tennis scene like the   and Achanta Sharath Kamals did for some years.
 
