Nagpur: This year on Valentine’s Day,   were silently giving up on their favourite food or indulgences as it was Ash Wednesday, which marks beginning of  . Rising from the belief that Jesus Christ gave his life to pay for the sins of mankind, the Christian community tries to relive the pain and suffering of their saviour during this forty days period.

 The young and old alike have their own interpretations for how Lent is to be observed. “This is the time for introspection and to put oneself on a self-correction course,” says Justin Clarke, a thirty-year-old trader. “I don’t believe in giving up a habit just for forty days. I try to kick it out of my life every year by singling out one every year,” he says.
 
 Wednesdays and Fridays are sacred as special prayers are offered over a month-long period. “It is important for each member of my family to visit the church during Lent. I ensure this by explaining to them the significance of doing so,” says Isabel John, a young homemaker. “I feel that true change of heart comes through religion,” she adds.
 
 There are many who treat this period as one for performing penance. “There are so many incidents and behaviour which many times leaves us guilt ridden,” says Rita D’Souza, a retired teacher. “I confess my mistakes and try to ask for forgiveness from those who I feel have been grieved by them.”
 
 The sacrament of confession is mandatory for all Catholic Christians. “Our advice to all practicing Christians is that they should reflect inwardly to change their relationship with God first and then with their family and others. Prayer, penance, alms giving and fasting are the desired acts during this time,” Father Jerome Pinto, the vicar general of St Martin Deporres Chruch explains.
 
 Small gestures which help us build virtues like speaking the truth, being kind to the elderly and even respecting our parents are all part of the spirit of Lent feels, corporate employee Santan Titus. “I observe this period by trying not to cause hurt to people around me,” he says.
 
 Describing as different the way youth looks at God, Fr Jose Thomas says, “There is a rise in the number of youth in the Church on Wednesdays and Fridays during Lent. They are the ones who have a taste for religion and make sacrifices, as they realize that this is the time to return to God.” 
 
 
