GURUGRAM: Sunday morning’s   that left two people dead and an airline pilot seriously injured, has brought attention back to the state of safety in Gurugram’s underpasses, which have become speeding zones according to road safety experts who believe bikers and car drivers speed inside underpasses. 

 In the underpasses on NH-8, including ones at Rajiv Chowk and Signature Tower, the assigned speed limit is 30kmph, while in ones at Cyber City and Golf Course Road, it’s 50kmph.
 
 According to officials, on Sunday morning, the driver of the Scorpio that caused the accident, had most probably arrived from the Mehrauli Road flyover, and was driving towards Cyber City, when he suddenly changed his mind and decided to speed towards Sikanderpur, entering the underpass on the wrong side, causing the accident. 
 
 Road safety officer Navdeep Singh said the intensity of the head-on crash, and the resultant fatalities, were the result of both cars being driven at speed. “On average, drivers ply on most underpasses at 80kmph, despite instructions to drive at lower speeds,” he said.
 
 According to Singh, driving down the wrong side in underpasses is common, and that he had recently faced a situation similar to the one that turned fatal on Sunday, in an U-turn underpass in Cyber City. Besides, officials said minor accidents keep happening in this underpass, but were not recorded as they were not fatal. 
 
 “Wrong side driving is dangerous and is one of the main causes of accidents across the country. In underpasses, especially ones with U-turns, it becomes more dangerous as people drive at speed and there is no space to suddenly change lanes,” he said.
 
 Officials maintained there are ‘No entry’ signs placed on the entries to the wrong sides of all of the city’s underpasses. DLF officials said CCTV cameras are already being installed in underpasses and main junctions. Work has finished in two U-turn underpasses and a third underpass in Cyber City, while they are currently being installed in the  , officials said.
 
 An accident in which a biker was killed in Sikanderpur underpass in December 2017 had put the spotlight on bikers. But road safety experts cautioned that bikers can’t be kept out of underp-asses, so creating special lanes for them should be considered. “Unless enforcement is strict, bikers will enter underpasses. Either there should be lanes designated for bikers, or traffic police should keep a check on underpasses round the clock, which is not possible,” said a road safety expert.
 
 Evacuation plan for underpasses during contingencies like a natural calamity, has not been submitted to the district administration, despite orders by deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh during a road safety meeting on February 22. 
 
 TOI had reported on March 16 that none of the city’s 15 underpasses have an evacuation plan.
 
 Traffic cops said an interceptor has been placed on Golf Course Road and duties allocated to cops at various locations and times of day.
 
  But residents said enforcement is poor, especially at night, when traffic cops are rarely visible.
 
 “Driving on wrong side is common in Gurugram,” said an user, responding to a TOI tweet. Another one said, “Plz take care of it before it takes more lives. Need stricter punishments for rule breakers.”
 
 A DLF spokesperson said, “We’re coordinating with authorities to see what can be done to prevent such accidents in future. Traffic police have required expertise, and we’ll abide by their directions.”
 
 
