R   remembers spotting the fire from less than 100 yards away. The techie, who works for a city based IT firm, was part of the 24-member trekking group from Chennai who were caught in the   hills in Theni district. 

 In a telephonic conversation with TOI, Vijayalakshmi narrated the moments in which the amateur trekkers came face-to-face with the deadly fire, one that could have been fatal for her. “Until the moment we saw it, we had no idea that there was a forest fire raging in the hills,” said Vijayalakshmi.
  
  
 “We had completed the uphill trek the previous day,” she said, adding, “At around 1pm (on Sunday), we had stopped to have lunch. We were already halfway through on the trek downhill,” said Vijayalakshmi.
 
 That is when the group noticed the fire, which was at least 100 yards downhill, according to Vijayalakshmi. It did not seem to be raging as they could only spot the smoke coming out of shrubs. “We did not think too much of it. We thought the fire was moving along a different trail,” she said.
 
 They did not assess the situation correctly. Within minutes, the fire ran uphill, consuming every inch of flora along its destructive trail. “The fire encircled us. We panicked. Some in the group, including me, started running uphill,” she said.
 
 Vijayalakshmi managed to escape with minor burn injuries. “I jumped over a small rock and hid under it. There were two others who fell over me but they suffered worse burns,” she said.
 
 Five minutes later, the fire continued its race uphill. The terrain around her was scalding hot from the impact. “We poured water out from the bottles that we carried to put out the smaller fires. Then, we took another trail to reach a safe zone and called the emergency numbers. The villagers were first to help us,” she added.
 
 This was only the second trek Vijayalakshmi has ever gone on. Theni district and forest officials stated that the trekkers had no permit to venture into Kurangani hills. Did she not know that they had no permit?
 
 “We didn’t know. We thought the   had taken care of the permits,” she said.
 
 
