It’s 20 years since the face of   lit up the   after the midfielder’s twin headers propelled France to a famous victory over Brazil — their only World Cup title so far. As captain of Les Bleus in 1998, current manager   will have fond memories of that historic night in Paris.

 
 
 While that was their high noon, one that well and truly launched the legend of Zidane, there is always a sense of excitement around France that’s hard to miss. Heading into Russia this time, when you look at the wealth of young talent at Deschamps’ disposal, it is easy to understand why.
 
 Antoine Griezmann,  ,  ,   – from back to front, this is clearly a squad decorated with gems who sparkle for the biggest clubs in world football week in week out.
 
 But is that alone going to be enough to help France march to a second World Cup title? If one were to look at how they got along at the last two major tournaments, the trajectory of this French team would suggest they ought to be ready to hit their peak in Russia.
 
 Having lost tamely to Germany in the quarterfinals at the last World Cup, France avenged that 1-0 defeat in Brazil with a Griezmann-inspired 2-0 win over the world champions in the Euro semifinals two years ago. But then the manner in which the heavily-favoured hosts stumbled to a surprise 1-0 loss to Portugal in the final raised many questions. Critics felt the game, which saw the Portuguese handicapped by the loss of their inspirational captain Cristiano Ronaldo to injury early, offered substantial evidence that Deschamps’ lads were not quite the finished article. Something was still missing. If only Deschamps could put a finger on it.
 
 They did seal their ticket to Russia by topping a tricky qualifying group that also contained Netherlands and Sweden, but their mental frailties were once again ruthlessly exposed by Colombia in a March friendly where they let a 2-0 lead slip to crash to a 3-2 defeat.
 
 Deschamps has had to cop flak from experts back home who feel that his preferred 4-4-2 formation is forbidding in expression and effectiveness given the talent at his disposal. In the recent friendlies, he did experiment with a 4-2-3-1 against Colombia before opting for the 4-3-3 against Russia, with Mbappe switching from a wide midfield role to centre forward in the latter game where the 19-year-old scored twice in a 3-1 win. The positive result aside, it was interesting to hear midfielder Blaise Matuidi’s thoughts on the collective showing. “Our display and the team spirit (needs) to be stronger, we have to work on this because the World Cup will arrive quickly, and we will have to be ready,” said the Juventus star, perhaps implying that the problems lay in the mind.
 
 Deschamps has the opportunity to become only the second man to captain and coach his national team to World Cup glory after German legend Franz Beckenbauer. As boss of one of the most promising generations of French footballers, you would have to say the 49-year-old tactician will head to Russia well equipped to do so, provided he hits upon the right formation in time and succeeds in passing on some of the steel he was famous as a player for.
 
 
