JAIPUR: Infamous for a huge number of  , the state government has set a target to make Rajasthan a child marriage free state in the next 10 years. 

 Department of women and child development (WCD) has  ,  ,  ,   workers and sathins to cooperate and play an active role in achieving the target. 
 
 
  
  
 
 Directions have been issued to all zila parishads, sarpanch and ASHA workers. All have been directed to develop networks at their own levels to prevent child marriages, said a WCD official. 
 
 The state is notorious for child marriages as there are still a large number of such weddings that are solemnised before the couple attain the legal age of marriage.
 
 “The state government in consultation with different government departments and agencies have formulated a joint strategy to free Rajasthan from child marriages in 10 years,” wrote  , minister WCD, to all pradhans of the state on Monday. 
 
 The focus of the state government is to declare individual panchayat samities free from child marriages with the help of public representatives, block level officers and NGOs. 
 
 Besides, the state government has also instructed all sarpanchs of the state to remain alert regarding such cases. “All those who are helping in the entire process of child marriages such as the baraaties (those taking part in wedding processions), priest, relatives, bandwallahs, halwai (caterers), photographers, vehicle owners in the processions and tent vendors are all liable for punishment, with imprisonment for up to two years and a fine of Rs1 lakh,” she wrote in the letter. 
 
 The state government has set responsibilities for officials in preventing weddings of minors. “Gram panchayats have dual responsibilities— first creating awareness against child marriages and second enforcement of child marriage prevention act,” Bhadel wrote. 
 
 Rajasthan is the state that reports highest number of child marriages in the country. According to the national family health survey (NFHS-4), 35% of women aged between 20 and 24 years are married before the age of 18. Besides, 36% of men aged between 25 and 29 years are married before the age of 21. 
 
 Moreover, WCD has made anganwadi workers aware of the ill effects of child marriages on the health of girls. Girls who get married before the legal age may give birth to malnourished and underdeveloped infants. Pregnancy at an early age is also a major reason for anaemia in women.
 
