CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh district court gave relief to former   Commissioner and retired IAS officer   and suspended the conviction till the pendency of the case pertaining to forgery of records in a   case with her mother. 

 The court sent the case to mediation centre. Asha Sharma was sentenced to three-year-rigorous imprisonment by court in September, 2016 following which she appealed against this order in appellate court in November.
 
 Meanwhile, the court has sent the case to the mediation centre and directed both the complainant and Asha Sharma to settle the matter. The court has directed mediation centre to call both the parties and settle the matter. The court further directed mediation centre to send the report of the status of the case by February 26. The complaint in the case was filed by mother and brother of Asha Sharma. District court has given them the opportunity to negotiate the matter.
 
 Asha Sharma was convicted under Section 426 (mischief) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) after which she was sentenced to three-year-rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs 1,000 under Section 466 (forgery of court record or public register) of the IPC.
 
 Asha Sharma’s mother,   had averred that on November 12, 1999, it was revealed that the original will of the late Col Balwant Singh, husband of the complainant, was missing from the record. It was revealed that on page numbers 10 and 11 of the file, there were a series of notes showing that the original office file was taken to the residence of Asha Sharma, on the orders of then assistant estate officer, Estate Office, UT, who noted that Asha Sharma had tampered with some documents in it.
 
 Chander Kala had submitted a complaint with the advisor following which a vigilance inquiry was marked. her complaint, an inquiry was conducted and the report for the same was sent in 2000. A case under sections 406, 420, 468 and 477 of the Indian Penal Code was registered against Asha Sharma.
 
 The former officer was earlier in the news when she continued to reside in a government accommodation despite her retirement.
 
 
