At a time when gender-based violence has become a worldwide phenomenon, a theatre group is ready to roll out a play on atrocities against women and also the effeminate, or men with characteristics typical of a woman.   that dealt with street plays with random enthusiasts and was consolidated as a group only a month and a half back, is set to voice the social concern with  . A host of individuals, who have been relegated to the sidelines of the society and are considered ‘toxic’ (bishakto), will be a part of the production.

 Elaborating on the concept, theatre director Chiranjib Guha said, “We would regularly do street plays and worked closely with the LGBT community. This play raises some of their concerns. Today, not only are women subjected to brutality, but men who have a feminine streak in them are also suppressed. Bishakto Panchali, which will premiere on June 4, goes with the tagline: ‘Nari ebong nari sulobh purusher amulya gatha’ (a unique story of women and the effeminate).” The play draws parallels with The Mahabharata, where Draupadi had to suffer because of the Pandavas. “I have read The Mahabharata many times and I could relate to Draupadi’s plight. When Arjun came home with her, Kunti, assuming he brought alms, asked him to divide her among the five brothers. Again, Yudhisthira pawned her in a game of dice. At that time, a wife was equated to wealth by the husband. Yudhisthira himself had become a slave of Kauravas and couldn’t have claimed authority over Draupadi, but he was still allowed to stake her. Bishakto Panchali raises a few valid questions on her behalf,” explained the director.
 
 
 The play also aims to merge the LGBT community with the mainstream. The cast includes Tista Das, a trans woman, who is also an actress,  , an ex-convict and several homosexual students who were physically abused by men. “Tista told me how she was often called a eunuch and wilfully ignored by the mainstream. Despite being an actress, she never had a good role coming her way. She plays one of the female leads in our production. Then there is   or Mamoni to me, who served a 13-year sentence in the Kunal Bose murder case. The cast also includes a student, who was gangraped by a group of seniors. In the play, I too play a woman even though my orientation is straight. The message that I want to convey is that gender identity comes much later; we are humans first,” said Chiranjib.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The theatre group has found unexpected support in actor  , who is one of the organisers of the play. “Every year, Kolahol would come up with theme-based street plays. I saw their work on old-age homes and orphanages and found them interesting. When they came to me with the concept of Bishakto Panchali, I liked it and suggested that they do it in an auditorium. Things were finalised within days and I am looking forward to see them make a splash,” said Nigel.
 
