CHENNAI: A day after the ministry of human resource development released the National Institutional   Framework ranking,   is celebrating – at least one in every top 5 institutions under engineering, medicine,   and overall is from the state.

 On Wednesday, the government announced that Anna University, University of Madras, Alagappa University, Periyar University, Barathiyar University and Tamil Nadu Agricultural University qualified and applied for institutions of eminence. If selected, these institutions will be among 20 in the country that will enjoy complete academic and administrative autonomy . “All of them have applied for this,” said higher education secretary Sunil Paliwal. “The state has considered grading and rankings by national organisations seriously. Now, we shall focus on the NAAC score as well so we can get Category- A institutions,” he said.
 
 One of the most important reasons for the progression, academicians say, is better participation in the ranking system. Data shows more number of institutions from the south, particularly from the public sector, have taken part in the assessment in 2018 compared to 2017. For instance, Presidency College, which did not apply for a ranking in 2017, was among the top 10 in the colleges across the country. University of Madras, ranked 41 last year, is now ranked 18 after vice-chancellor P Duraisamy and senior faculty members held focused meetings to perfect parameters and record them carefully in the self-assessment notes.
 
 It was a celebration for several private institutions too. Most engineering colleges managed to retain their scores, even if some slipped. “The value-volume ratio has moved in the progressive direction and with greater policy impetus, the state is poised for a bigger share in the national scene in 2019,” said SASTRA University dean, planning and development S Vaidhyasubramaniam.
 
 The biggest surprise is five   colleges and  , including state medical university-affiliated Christian Medical College, Vellore, in the top 25. The state, a hub of medical care, is now emerging a hub for medical education as well. 
 
 
