PATNA:   would check the vehicles being driven by women only under   surveillance, Patna traffic SP P N Mishra said on Saturday. 

 
 In case of male drivers, if   camera is not in the vicinity, police officers would record the checking procedures on their cellphones as proof for future. The CCTV footage would be saved for a week, he said.
 
 Male police personnel have been ordered not to touch women drivers no matter what her crime is. Vehicles with women passengers should be checked by women police personnel only. All traffic rules apply to both men and women, he said.
 
 Traffic police personnel have also been asked not to get into skirmishes with drivers regarding fine or punishment. A case would be registered against those found driving a vehicle without licence, Mishra said.
 
 Traffic police personnel have been directed to maintain a list of seizures, take signature of the driver in the presence of independent witnesses at the time. As a proof, police personnel would click a picture of the documents if they found any problem with them.
 
 All police officials would be in proper uniform with their name tags attached. They have advised not to stop a vehicle by standing in front or going close to it from their safety point of view. “The directives have been issued with exhaustive traffic system in Patna in mind. Those from other districts who drive in Patna change the traffic scenario on the city roads. The directives are meant to ensure not only their safety but that of the police personnel as well while checking vehicles,” the traffic SP said.
 
 The directives were issued after transport department officials allegedly misbehaved with a girl near R-Block on May 22. According to police officials, the girl was asked to stop her scooty near R-Block for driving without a helmet. They also alleged that the girl had misbehaved with the officials. While the girl alleged that a transport department driver had clicked her picture and grabbed her hand when she objected. 
 
 Tractors on Gandhi setu: The Patna traffic administration has decided to allow tractors and medium-weight vehicles on   from 11am to 4pm to ease the burden on the bridge caused due to the movement of all such vehicles during night hours. “We have decided to allow medium-weight vehicles from both sides of the bridge to break the traffic flow,” traffic SP Mishra said.
 
 
