GURUGRAM: In a city where   that is both good and affordable is a major concern, this is a big relief. 

 The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority ( ) on Thursday approved a a multi-speciality hospital in the city under the public-private partnership mode. The 500-bed not-for-profit hospital, will come up in Sector 67, officials said. The decision was taken at the GMA meeting chaired by chief minister  . 
 
 Officials remained tight-lipped about the details of the project as the some of the terms are yet to be finalised. However, sources revealed that at least eight acres in Sector 67 owned by GMDA had been allotted for the hospital. 
 
 The proposal is to give the hospital to a charitable trust or social organisation that will take minimum charges from patients. The ownership of the land will remain with the government which can take over operations, in case the private player does not fulfil terms and conditions, according to sources.
 
 Besides, an additional wing would be added to General Hospital in Civil Lines for now to allow it to accommodate more patients. 
 
 The adjacent land, on which two schools stand, has been allotted for a new building of the hospital. But that is likely to take a long time. Deputy commissioner   said it was not possible to accommodate students from these schools to other government schools. Therefore, there is a proposal to build a new school building on a ‘gaushala’ land in Old Gurugram. After the students are shifted there, the new hospital will be built in two phases. Meanwhile, the school will vacate nearly 10 rooms adjacent to the hospital building for its additional wing.
 
 In the first phase, a 100-bed building will be constructed, along with residential quarters for doctors. In Phase 2, the operations that take place in the existing hospital will be shifted to the new building, and the old structure will be demolished. Then a 200-bed building will be constructed on 5.6 acres.
 
 The new hospital will have facilities like a burns wards, a cochlear laboratory, and a dialysis centre.
 
 
