VADODARA: Two minor tribal girls were raped and one of them was murdered in the   village of Jhalod taluka in Dahod district. The incident had taken place on May 14 and an offence was registered after the autopsy of the dead girl revealed that she was raped.

 
 
 The two girls had gone to the marriage of a relative at Depada village on the night of May 14. Late in the night, nine-year-old Parul (name changed) was tired and went to sleep inside the house where the marriage was taking place. Her cousin 16-year-old Shweta (name changed) too was tired and went and sat in the house late in the night even as others were involved in revelry.
 
 Parul allegedly came to Shweta and around 12.15am and told Shweta that she wanted to relieve herself. Shweta allegedly took her to a dark place behind the house. At this time, the cousins were approached by three men Kalpesh Katara, a resident of Sagan in   district of Rajasthan, Mehul Amaliyar and Sunil Garasiya, both residents of Jhalod taluka.
 
 Both Kalpesh and Mehul were videographers who had come to shoot the event. Parul’s father stated in his complaint that Parul had stayed back with her grandmother, but was found missing early in the morning. When he reached the village again and started looking for Parul, she was found inside a well. Her pyjama was also pulled down, the father alleged.
 
 It was subsequently, that Parul’s father learnt that Katara, Amaliyar and Garasiya were missing in the night and when a relative had called one of them, their phone was switched off. This led to the father naming the three as suspects in the case in an offence registered on Thursday night.
 
 It was after this that Shweta too approached the police that she was raped by Katara. She revealed in her FIR that the three accused had raped Parul and two of them took Parul away. After going through the video footages of the wedding and telephone call details, Limdi police arrested the three accused on Saturday.
 
 Circle police inspector B K Baria who is probing the case said that since the names of suspects had been given, the police verified each one of them and ascertained that they were involved. He added that the accused will be presented in a court on Sunday to obtain a remand for their interrogation.
 
 
