PUNE: What started off as a market to provide farmers with various brass bearings for agricultural use over 100 years ago is now a full-fledged interior fittings bazaar. From locks to fancy door handles and curtain knobs, when it comes to redecorating a living space the   in and around Bohri Ali and   is a safe bet.

 While many traders continue to deal primarily in brass fittings, others have branched out to capture the growing demand for hardware made using other material.
 
 Juzer Poonawalla of   shared that the agri-fitting market has turned into more of an interior-fitting market. “Many stores are as old as 100 years. The market started with agricultural fitting supplies as there was no demand for domestic brass fittings at the time. But, over time, the demand pattern has changed and now it is a predominantly interior-fitting market. The market is flourishing since traders have managed to adapt to consumer needs,” Poonawalla explained.
 
 He added that since Bohri Ali is the go-to place for Punekars, many brass traders have also expanded to dealing in plastic items too.
 
 Hatim Alif of   at Raviwar Peth pointed out, “We have been dealing in brass furniture fittings for 52 years. The only change has been the introduction of new designs and trends. This has always been a trading sector. We source our stock from paces like Jamnagar and Rajkot in   and Aligarh,” he stated.
 
 Alif added that the flourishing business has prompted younger members of the family to join the business. “Many youngsters have joined their family businesses in this particular sector. I have completed my MBA but I chose to continue with the family business. My brother is an interior decorator and runs a franchise so that he too can remain connected to the business,” he further explained.
 
 Speaking about the industrial use of brass bearings,   of AK Santrampurwla and Sons said, “Our store was set up in 1939 and then we dealt in hardware like brass door fittings, and others. But later we started dealing in brass instrumentation fittings. Due to its qualities like resistance to steam and water, anti-corrosion and higher longevity, small and medium industries prefer using brass fittings.”
 
 
