For six hours,   writhed in agony on the floor as the poison did its work. Her father who forced the poison down her throat and watched her die later told police it was just punishment for loving a man outside the community and insisting on marrying him against their wishes. 
 
  
 The chilling crime in Gollanabeedu village, barely 15km from Mysuru, was revealed as police took up suo motu investigation a week after Sushma's death. Rumours of an "honour killing" did the rounds as the girl who was called to talk to the family on February 20 was cremated secretly at dawn the next day.
 
 Sushma's father Kumar   has been detained for questioning. Police are still looking for her mother and uncle, who helped Gowda kill her and destroy evidence after the murder. 
 
  Additional SP N Rudramuni said Gowda, his wife   and her brother Kempanna were opposed to Sushma's relationship with a Dalit youth, a painter from the neighbouring Alanahalli village. Sushma was the eldest of three daughters and had dropped out of college. In December last year, Gowda, along with a few panchayat members, tried to dissuade Sushma and when he failed, sent her to a relative's house in Hulikere in   district. 
 
  Since then, Gowda, a farmer, allegedly called Sushma home on three occasions to convince her to marry a man of the family's choice. Sushma is said to have refused their proposal outright, angering them. The family called her a fourth time on February 20 but this was no effort at rapprochement. 
 
  "Involving her in a conversation, the girl's mother is said to have offered her orange juice laced with a toxic liquid. Sushma took a few sips and stopped, saying the juice tasted strong. Seeing their ruse had failed, Kumar, Jayanthi and Kempanna held her nostrils and forced the juice down her throat," Rudramuni said. 
 
  "She was given the toxic juice at their farmhouse around 10.30pm. She died around 4am on February 21. Gowda said Sushma struggled for six hours, writhing in pain on the floor. After she died, her body was cremated in the farm around 5am," Rudramuni said. 
 
  "We're looking for the mortal remains of the girl and any other evidence." 
 
 The crime would have been buried but for beat constable Ravi who tipped off his seniors on hearing rumours of the unsuspecting girl being killed over a love affair. 
 
 A case was filled at Heggadadevana Kote police station on Wednesday. Police officials said that Gowda admitted to killing his daughter with the help of his wife and brother-in-law but showed no remorse. All three accused in the case have been booked for murder and destruction of evidence. 
 
 
 
 
 
