By- Jason Soares

 Sounds can evoke a certain kind of emotion within us. At times, it can be a harbinger of sorts, doing away with the need for the spoken word. Be it the fierce rattling of the ‘dhol’, the gentle, monotonous pealing of temple or church bells, or the clap of firecrackers, the use of sound has always proved to be an effective means of social communication. But there are also certain sounds, like that of the ‘foznem’, which can set both your spirit and pulse racing at the same time. 
 
 The ‘foznem’ or miniature cannon, has been an integral part of village feasts as far as memory can stretch. Its deafening explosion has the potential to reverberate across more than 13km, across neighbouring villages, signalling the commencement and culmination of novena and feast masses. As an added attraction, a type of candle-lit lanterns called ‘sorange’, uniquely colour coded for each village, were also released in the evenings post novenas, thus serving as a visual treat in the sky. While the lanterns lost their significance, as haystacks in fields would get inadvertently incinerated owing to falling embers, the ‘foznem’s’ relevance continues to echo, albeit on a dimmer note.
 
 “As church bells had limited range, the firing of these cannons was particularly helpful for bed-ridden people. It alerted them and they could then join in the prayers,” says historian  . 
 The bursting of ‘foznem’ was mostly undertaken by members of the economically backward Mahar community, who served as helpers in the church. “All churches would have their own ‘foznem’. Three shots were usually fired at the start and end of mass, while it would be six each for the feast mass,” recalls Colin   of Anjuna.
 
 Contrary to popular belief, this tradition of firing cannons has no liturgical significance. “It’s just a show of extravagance and grandeur put up by the feast organisers. Those who have the money didn’t mind a bit of splurging,” says Pereira. 
 
 In recent years, the firing of ‘foznem’ has diminished significantly, with no takers for the risky profession being one of the reasons. Only a handful of these ‘foguers’ continue to keep this tradition alive. 
 
  of Chandor says his entire family, right from his great grandfather, have been sought after for over 100 years, a legacy that he continues along with his elder brother and cousin to this day. 
 
 “It’s a dangerous task. Once my elder brother sustained burn injuries and had to be admitted in hospital for 15 days. Someone was smoking a cigarette near gunpowder. We have to cotton-pad our ears every time we light the cannons. And long afterwards our hands will reek of gunpowder, for which a thorough scrubbing is essential,” the 53-year-old says as he displays his outstretched palms. 
 
 Even the use of gunpowder is now restricted, as a special licence is needed from the collector. “Nowadays, we insist that the feast organisers get the necessary approvals, or else we refuse to handle the gunpowder. The government wants us to fire these cannons only in open spaces. Even we have been told to get ourselves registered,” says  , who also takes up contracts for ‘foznem’ firing. 
 
 As most parishes have sounded their last cannons, the profession of these ‘foguers’ threatens to fade into oblivion. “This has been our bread and butter through the ages. Although we have jobs now, our family will continue with the profession,” vows Andrew. 
 
 But, more importantly, the ‘foznem’ is a symbol of festivity that people seem unable to let go of. “For the first time in years, the Chandor feast of Three Kings on January 6 didn’t have the ‘foznem’. Many NRIs make it a point to visit Goa for the feast, and eagerly look forward to these ‘foznem’. But it was disappointing this time. The feast has lost its charm,” says a parishioner. 
