Ahmedabad: With completion of the gauge conversion of Ahmedabad-Botad and Ahmedabad-Himmatnagar from metre gauge line to broad gauge, the city traffic, too, will be heading towards freedom from waits at railway crossings. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has announced during its   that new flyovers or underpasses are being planned at 25 railway level crossings in the city. With these, city traffic will be able to avoid all railway crossings.

 Officials said there are 69 railway crossings in the city, and 33 already have flyovers or underpasses, while two are under construction. Besides 25 more flyovers and bypasses, five existing underpasses like those at Mithakhali and Madalpur will be widened by AMC and Railway Vikas Nigam Limited. 
 
 The AMC and Railways have also decided to close four crossings namely Jantanagar, Naranpura, Sardarnagar and Daxini crossing to traffic and are carrying out a feasibility study for the crossing near Navrangpura police station.
 
 AMC officials said that the AMC and the Rail Vikas Nigam Limited are carrying out the study to find if there was a possibility of an underpass or a flyover at the junction. The junction has two roads. One coming from Mithakhali Crossroads and the other coming from CG Road.
 
 For the Jantanagar, Naranpura, Sardarnagar and Daxini railway crossings the feasibility study was negative for flyovers or underpasses at the crossings themselves and underpasses will be built in nearby areas to connect the main roads by avoiding the railway crossings.
 
 The Railways had earlier written a letter to the AMC to plan flyovers or underpasses at the crossing as two meter gauge lines from city — one to Botad and other to Himmatnagar — were getting converted to broad gauge and with increased train movement, frequent traffic jams at railway level crossings would be unavoidable unless flyovers were built.
 
 All railway crossings in city are on the six railway lines which include Sabarmati-Chandlodia-Viramgam-Rajkot, Chandlodia-Jagatpur-Khodiyar-Gandhinagar, Sabarmati -Chandlodia-Gandhigram-Botad, Kalupur-Sabarmati-Palanpur-Delhi, Kalupur-Maninagar-Mumbai and Kalupur-Asarwa-Naroda-Himmatnagar.
 
 
