LUCKNOW: A massive fire broke out in the store room of   power substation in Aliganj on Wednesday. Goods worth lakhs were gutted but no loss to life was reported.

 However, the thick black smoke led to panic among residents and offices in the locality.
 
 It took three hours and eight fire tenders to douse the flames.
 
 According to the police, around 2.45pm, sub-divisional officer (Ahibaranpur)   informed Aliganj police about the fire. Within minutes, flames engulfed the store room as a team from the fire department arrived.
 
 Chief fire officer   said prima facie it appeared that lubricants used in electrical machines dumped in the store had caught fire.
 
 “It was very risky as the fire was next to the boundary wall of the power substation. Had the flames touched the electrical poles, a major disaster would have occurred,” said Pandey.
 
 While fire fighters were at work, panic led to closure of  , situated next to the power substation. People from two small private hospitals, a bank, and a school nearby also came out to find out what had happened.
 
 Residents, many watching from the rooftops, complained of asphyxiation, nausea and vomiting because of the smoke.
 
 Varun Shukla, who stays behind the power house, said, “I had to take my mother to hospital because smoke inhalation led to vomiting and nausea. Thankfully, she is stable now.”
 
 Populated with coaching institutes, the area saw students come out of classes and heading to the terrace for a glimpse of the fire.
 
 The cloud of smoke led to ascare in a government bank located opposite it. Officials said they ran out, thinking a big disaster had taken place. “The sight was nerve-racking,” said an official. Work was suspended for hours.
 
 Pandey said people carelessly dump electrical waste containing oils/lubricants around them. During summer, if it comes in contact with a spark, a fire can break out and winds help it spread. Executive engineer KC Azad said old and used parts of transformers were dumped into the store room. The exact cause will be investigated.
 
 
 Power supply to around 2,500 houses was discontinued after a fire was reported in the store room of Ahibaranpur power substation on Wednesday afternoon.
 
 The 33KV/11KV substation on Sitapur Road provides electricity to hundreds of households in Triveninagar, Khadra, Mohan Meakin, Daliganj and on Sitapur road till Puraniya crossing.
 
 Lesa executive Engineer KC Azad said no major power failure had taken place, only some wires had been damaged in the fire, he said.
 
 As the fire blazed in the store, supply was shut as a precautionary measure.
 
 Residents of Sitapur Road, however, had to face a long power cut, disrupting daily routine.
 
 In some areas, there were repeated outages leading to impact on electronic equipment such as televisions and air conditioners.
 
 Lesa chief (trans-Gomti) Pramod Kakkar said, “As a precautionary measure, we shut the line of Ahibaranpur Sitapur Road. However, nearly 2,500 houses were effected. We were compelled to do this to ensure the safety of residents. The fire was threatening to spread but was controlled. Power was restored around 6pm.”
 
 
