CHENNAI: Sri Lanka’s   staved off stiff challenges from compatriot  ,   and defending champion   in the final round to triumph at the Chennai Open   Championship here. Despite a subdued performance on Sunday, where he managed just two birdies, the 31-year-old held aloft his sixth PGTI title after notching up an even-par-70 to finish with an overall score of 14-under-266.

 
 Thangaraja, who was second overnight, had edged ahead of Mithun by one shot after the first five holes in the fourth round, but lapses in concentration cost him towards the end as he eventually slipped to fourth at 12-under-268. The day’s best score belonged to Digvijay, who shot an eight-under-62 to finish joint second at 13-under-267 alongside Mukesh (66) and gave a scare to Mithun. However, it was Mithun’s consistency over the past four days which helped him have the final laugh.
 
 It was Perera’s first PGTI title since winning in Bengaluru in February 2014. The win, no doubt, came as a huge source of relief for Mithun, having been frustrated by his inability to cross the finishing line in recent times. “It feels amazing because the victory has come the hard way. The last four years have been very frustrating because I came very close but wasn’t able to get over the line. This is the most special title considering it has come after a gap of four years. Chennai, of course, is very close to Sri Lanka. This means a lot to me. I think this will make the headline in Sri Lankan papers on Monday,” an ecstatic Mithun said moments after his victory on Sunday.
 
 Looking ahead, Mithun seems keen on returning to the Asian Tour and proving his mettle once again. Till 2016, Mithun had possessed a full card at the Asian Tour - the first ever Sri Lankan to do so. While his best performance was finishing second at the Singapore Classic in 2012, he remains confident of going all the way in the future. “I want to get back to the Asian Tour and win a title or two. I came very close on three occasions - Singapore Classic in 2012, Myanmar Open in 2013 and Panasonic Open in 2014. I also came third at Indian Open in 2015 (lost by one shot). I maybe did not have the luck. But the belief is still very much intact that I can win at that level,” he added.
 
