MUMBAI: Eight   who were recently booked for a question paper leak were apprehended on Friday and sent to a juvenile home. This is possibly the first time that such tough action has been initiated against SSC students.

 
  
  
 The Amboli police had booked the eight SSC students, all aged 15, on Monday after the History & Political Science papers were found on their phones minutes before the exam. Along with the students, a maths teacher at a Mumbra school,   (47); a tuition teacher, Rohit Singh (24); Khan’s office boy Imran Shaikh (45); and an IT engineering student, A Hasan (22), were also booked for the leak. 
 
 While the adults were arrested and sent to police custody, the teenagers were allowed to appear for the remaining papers. The exams concluded on Friday and soon after, the police apprehended the students and sent them to an observation home in Dongri.
 
 The students will have to spend the night at the home and their parents can appeal for bail on Saturday when they will be produced before the  . 
 
 Subhash Borse, secretary in charge of the board’s Mumbai division, said, “The students, even though minors, have made a conscious decision to participate in the wrongdoings. So the law must take its own course.” The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has decided to institute an internal committee that will probe into the SSC question paper-leak racket and bar students who are involved from taking board exams for the next three to five attempts.
 
 Investigating officer Daya Nayak said that to obtain bail for the students, their parents will have to get bail orders from the court and submit it to the police station. The police will then issue a receipt, which will have to be submitted to the court and the observation home for their release.
 
 Nayak said that the eight students were part of a group, “Board ke imp”, on Instagram and that leaked papers were distributed to those who had paid for them. The group was deleted after the leak came to light but investigators have managed to retrieve the history, he said. “The students were allowed to write their SSC examination and on Friday, after they completed their exams, their parents got them to the police station,” said an officer from Amboli police station.
 
 An officer said that the students’ parents have claimed they were unaware about their wards having paid to get question papers. “They said that learnt about it only when the police called them up and handed over notices about their children being booked for the leak.”
 
 The police said that some of the students had paid money to Hasan (22), who had posted the question paper on the Instagram group and also circulated it on WhatsApp groups. “Some students said they had already paid Hasan money, between Rs 500 and Rs 3,000, but he has claimed that he was still to receive it,” said the officer.
 
 On Monday, invigilator Sandhya Pawar (27) at MVM Swami Muktanand High School in Andheri (west) spotted three students outside the examination hall glancing into their mobiles and referring to books ahead of the history and political science papers.
 
 In her complaint, Pawar has said, “I was in the examination hall when I saw three students checking mobiles and looking into their books. I got suspicious and went closer. The three got scared when I inquired. I immediately took one of the kids’ mobile and found a question paper on Instagram. I alerted the board and incharge of the centre.” Pawar declined to comment on the matter when TOI contacted her.
 
 The three students were allowed to take the exam, and later, they were taken to Amboli police station and a case was registered late on Monday. The three students’ mobiles led the police to another candidate from Madanpura in south Mumbai. This student’s mobile helped them track down Hasan from Kamathipura. Hasan’s arrest and his mobile helped the cops trace the other students from Grant Road, Sion and Badlapur. Hasan also led the police to Khan, the kingpin, Singh and Shaikh. The police custody of Khan, Hasan and Shaikh was extended till March 26 on Friday, while Singh (24) has been remanded in custody till March 27.
 
 Khan, who runs Brilliant Classes in Ambernath for the past 16 years, is known in the locality for helping students pass SSC exams. Some locals told TOI that Khan asks students to appear at outstation centres so that he can use his connections to help them pass exams. Atik Raut from Ambernath said, “Khan is good teacher. We are surprised he has been arrested.”
 
 In Thursday’s paper leak at a Sakinaka centre, arrested private tuition teachers Firoz Yusuf Ansari (42) and Muzzamil Iqbal Kazi (27) were produced before a court on Friday. The duo has been sent to police custody till March 27. “Notices have been issued to four students who were caught with ICT papers before exam on Thursday. Their names are not mentioned in the FIR,” said DCP Navinchandra Reddy.
 
 “The board is taking several measures to curb leaks in the past few years but students and few teachers continue to indulge in malpractices. Strict punishment must be ensured for those who are at fault. For the past few days, there has been news about various FIRs filed but it still doesn't deter people as there is no fear.”
 
 In the late 1990s the economic offences wing (EOW) had investigated a   and found that well-known citizens had purchased leaked question papers for their wards.
 
 
