Depending on who you ask,   may be the best player in the world, or at least right up there among the very best which includes multiple Ballon d’Or winners - in no particular order - Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo.

 
 
 
 For   FC fans, he is the Egyptian king, who makes them sing “Salah-la-la-la.” His incredible form since making the move from Roma this season has seen him score 32 goals in just 36 Premier League appearances, setting a new record.
 
 There are plenty of rewards: Golden Boot, Premier League Player of the Year, FWA Footballer of the Year and PFA Player of the Year. Should the Egyptian winger carry on with his stunning form one last time this season in the Champions League final, they could even have his statue at the Anfield sooner than anyone expected, just like his boots being displayed amidst the statues of ancient pharaohs at the British Museum.
 
 
 
 This has been a crazy year for Salah. A year when he can do no wrong. A year when everything he touches turns to gold, and a year when he ended Egypt’s 28-year wait for a place at the World Cup, the world’s biggest sporting spectacle. That he did it with a stunning 94th minute winner against Congo only added to his legendary status, although given Egypt’s incredible record at the continental level, you wondered why it took them so long. For a side which made history by winning three consecutive Africa Cup of Nations between 2006 and 2010, how could they always fall short and fail to qualify for six World Cups since Italia 1990?
 
 Maybe, they didn’t have Salah, or the blazing form he has enjoyed this season.
 
 “I don’t think anyone could have foreseen what Mo has done and achieved this year. Everyone knew he was a very good player, having watched him the past few years with Fiorentina and Roma. But he has been absolutely incredible this season,” Robbie Fowler, another Liverpool legend, told TOI.
 
 Before the 25-year-old arrived at Liverpool, Fowler was the original ‘God’ at Anfield. For the Anfield faithful, his status remains unchanged, but there’s only one man occupying the space at the moment. Salah has broken Fowler’s Liverpool records with impunity this season, whether it’s the fastest to score 20 goals, number of goals in a season, or those scored with the magical left-foot.
 
 Little wonder then, the world’s eyes will be fixated on just one man when   play former champions Uruguay in their opening match on June 15. At 45, Essam el-Hadary could become the oldest player to compete at a World Cup, but it’s Salah who will be the cynosure of all eyes. The World Cup is pivotal for Salah in his quest to end Africa’s wait for a second Ballon d’Or winner. But can he do for Egypt, and Africa, what he did with Liverpool?
 
 “The obvious answer is no. Can Egypt do well, of course they can, and maybe a lot more expectations will be on Mo now to deliver because of what he has done with Liverpool. I think they will get out of the group ahead of Russia but there are bigger and better nations who will progress the further the competition goes,” feels Fowler.
 
 From a group that has the hosts Russia, and Saudi Arabia, the lowest-ranked team in the competition, Salah alone could ensure that this team does better than the Egyptian squads of 1934 and 1990 when they didn’t advance past the opening round. There are genuine fears opponents may find it easy to neutralise Egypt’s star man, and you have to wonder if there is enough in the tank to maintain his form during the summer.
 
 “He will want the campaign to go well and will make sure it’s not about him. He is a proper team player who maybe shuns the limelight and will want the world to see how good the Egypt team will be, qualifying for the World Cup for the first time since 1990.
 
 “Expectation levels have certainly risen, but good players thrive in great conditions. This is the perfect opportunity for Mo to shine and I am sure he will do what’s needed to help his team get out of the group. But then the stronger nations will take over,” said Fowler.
 
 Until then, enjoy the magic.
 
