GHAZIABAD: A 22-year-old man was found dead with a bullet wound in his head near IMS Engineering College in Masuri on Monday morning. 

 According to the police, the victim, Mohammad Amir, had a criminal background and was a suspect in a murder case in 2014. However, his name was later struck off from the FIR. Amir was sent to Dasna jail on December 25 after he was found in suspicious circumstances with a knife. He was booked under Section 25/4 of  . 
 
 He was released from the jail on Sunday morning. The police found a slip containing several phone numbers of people and messages for them from his possession. SHO, Masuri, Satendra Prakash Singh said: “The police control room received a call around 8am on Monday. The victim was shot in the head. The body has been sent for postmortem and an FIR would be registered based on the kin’s complaint. We are investigating further using the slip found in his poket as lead.”
 
 Amir’s father Hashrat Ali said he last spoke to his son around 10 pm on Sunday after which his phone was switched off. Ali added that Amir was running an AC repair shop in Noida with his two associates.
 
 This is the fifth murder to take place in Masuri in the past three weeks. On December 18, the body of five-year-old girl Suhana, studying in Class 1 in a government primary school, was found strangled with shoelaces in a mustard field in Sikroda village, 500 metres away from her home.
 
 On December 27, Mohammad Farooq, a property dealer in Masuri, was found dead in his car on Chittora bridge. 
 
 On December 30, a three-year-old boy was found murdered in Inayatpur village in Masuri on Saturday afternoon. According to police, the victim’s relatives, who live next door, are behind the crime.
 
 A day later, the body of a man with his throat slit was found under mysterious circumstances below the Dasna flyover in Masuri. Four days later, the police identified him as Lokesh Srivastav (22), a resident of Etah district and a second-year student of biotechnology at IMS Engineering College.
 
 
