While a few chose not to leave their seats inside the auditorium, most of the students and faculty in attendance at 
 , made the best of the their time as they waited for the first edition of Symbiosis International Deemed University's literary festival to begin. Thanks to the interesting book, food and merchandise stalls set up outside the auditorium, there were no qualms that the event started nearly an hour and half behind schedule. Lyricist, poet and scriptwriter   and minister of state for heavy industries and public enterprises,  , along with the chancellor of the university, Dr SB Majumdar, inaugurated the two-day festival on February 3. 

  
  
 
 Giving space to cultural events, authors and opinion leaders, day one attracted literary enthusiasts across all ages with sessions like book readings and author interactions, besides a Q&A with Babul Supriyo. Taken up by the enthusiasm of the young crowd, Javed Akhtar said, "We always thought aesthetics or mythologies are not bankable things and failed to pass them over to our younger generation. But today, what we see is that there is a kind of resurgence in younger generation’s interest in poetry, art and literature. I am glad to see them present in this auditorium today.” 
 
  
  
 
 The inaugural session ended on a light-hearted note when Babul Supriyo said, “Politicians are always tagged as long speakers, but I am glad Jawadji took the blame from me,” referring to Javed’s nearly 40-minute address. The second half of the day kicked off with an interactive session with  , during the launch of his book about the journey of the Kapoors in the film industry. The actor answered nearly all the questions that were sent his way.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 "Topics like religion, gender and politics were discussed in a different light during the inaugural session" shares Ankita Chawla, a student of SCMC. "I liked how Javed Akhtar stressed that we should focus on equality of human beings. His message will stay with me for a very long time, adds Ira Gopal, another student from SCMC.
 
  
  
 
 --Moumita.Chakraborty@timesgroup.com 
 
