Med aspirant ends life’, ‘Drugs, sex, stress in Kota’… India’s coaching hub gets a lot of bad press. But in Rajasthan’s Sojat town, they know Kota as the place that helped Ramchandra Sankhla crack the IIT exam and get to the US to work in one of the world’s top companies.

 Born into the family of a daily wage earner, Sankhla, 25, grew up in a single-room home in Sojat, a town that is India’s top mehendi producer. Seeing his calibre, a teacher in his government school urged him to shift to Kota for IIT-JEE coaching. But cost was a major worry. “We borrowed some money and headed for Kota, unsure whether we will be able to pay it back,” Sankhla tells TOI over the phone from the US.
 
 Sankhla needn’t have worried. A year later he was picked for a scholarship; he qualified for IIT-Roorkee;   hired him and after a stint at Bengaluru, he was sent to Seattle.
 
 Sankhla is one amongst the numerous IITians that Kota’s coaching institutes churn out annually. Most of them came here in their tender mid-teens; many, like Sankla, came from underprivileged backgrounds – the son of a coolie at a railway station, a NREGA worker from  , a girl child bride… In Kota, they found both support and success. “Had I not moved to Kota, I would have never moved out of Sojat,” explains Sankla.
 
 Today the city is a melting pot of students – from Kerala to Kashmir, Gujarat to the Northeast – studying together in classrooms and hostels, or dining and praying together in common halls. Food streets at Talwandi or Rajiv Gandhi Nagar now offer something for every palate – from wazwan to Gujarati dal, momos to sattu, aloo parantha to masala dosa.
 Naveen Maheshwari, MD of Allen Career Institute, lists several reasons why the city churns out the most number of IITians annually. It has a traditional outlook that helps keep students focused on studies. A family environment, personalised attention, and counsellors for ironing out problems provides them “mental peace, confidence, and comfort”, bringing out the best in them. “It is this that brings thousands from diverse background across the country to Kota every year,” says Maheshwari, and adds that his institute made it to the Limca Book of Records for bagging the top 10 ranks of the AIIMS exam in 2017.
 
 Some successful alumni have been granting scholarships to needy students. Vatsalya Singh, son of a welder from Khagaria, Bihar, hit the headlines after he was hired by   with an annual package of Rs 1.2 crore in 2016. “I was showered with love by my mentors and batchmates in Kota. Had Kota not supported me, I would have perhaps become a welder too,” says Singh. Today, he has been helping others achieve their dreams.
 R K Verma, MD of Resonance Eduventures, says, “Kota handholds students and their parents in almost everything from the moment they arrive here. No degree or certification is given here but students migrate because the ambience here helps them match the best in the industry.”
 
 As part of a CSR initiative, Verma’s institute has been providing coaching assistance to the Jawahar Navodaya School in Bundi. Of the 50 students coached there, 48 got selected for IITs last year. “The success of these students from rural backgrounds has given us motivation to go for more such initiatives,” adds Verma.
 
 The city’s coaching expertise is also being used to bring change in Naxalite-affected   and insurgency-hit Kashmir. Pramod Maheshwari, director of Career Point says, “Our collaboration with the Chhattisgarh government in providing coaching in Naxal-hit areas and collaboration with local partners in Srinagar is bringing the children of the region into the mainstream.”
 
 Mahendra Singh Chouhan, director of Vibrant Academy, explains that Kota differs from other coaching centres because of a combination of students and teachers making the city a very fertile place for bringing out success stories.
 The successes, in turn, want to do their bit. “Driven by the way I was helped in Kota I am trying to give something back to the society,” says Sankhla, who spent a month teaching kids at the Shanidham Girls Orphanage in Shojat in 2016. Even now, he takes classes via video conferencing when required.
 
