KOLKATA: Indian pacer Md Shami’s relatives met   Jahan’s lawyer   on Sunday in a bid to broker an out-of-court settlement. Sources said that “amicable discussions between the seniors in the families were in progress.” Though Hussain confirmed such a discussion has begun, he did not spell out the details. Hasin, too, confirmed this and said: “They have spoken to my lawyer. But I have received no calls myself.”

 Shami’s relatives are also in consultation with criminal lawyers in Kolkata. “If he really wants to change himself, if he is really serious about saving his family and this relationship, I am ready for a rethink,” Hasin said. She, however, added she is circumspect about such moves by Shami and his family.
 
 “Before lodging the FIR, I had made umpteen calls to Shami, which went unanswered. My child’s future is also at stake here. I tried whatever I could to mend his ways, instead I got threats and insults. I have nothing to say now. They have to speak to my lawyers,” she said. Disputing Shami’s claim that he had tried to settle the issue by talking to her privately, Hasin said, “Ever since I posted on a social networking site, I have received no calls from him. He had even rejected calls from my lawyer,” she said.
 
 Md Shami’s outreach to Hasin and her lawyer isn’t without reason, say legal experts. Shami, facing serious penal charges, may have to move for anticipatory bail either in a sessions court in Kolkata or the Calcutta High Court.
 
 Lalabazar sources on Sunday said they have lodged a case based on the specific allegations made by Hasin. “So far, we have received no fresh official inputs from either side. We will go ahead with the forensic test of the audio clips,,” said a senior official involved with the probe.
 
 According to lawyers the most feasible option for Shami is to move court for quashing the FIR. However, the onus is on Shami to prove that Hasin’s FIR has been lodged only for malicious reasons and to trouble him. Since the penal charges are non-compoundable, lawyers say this is his only reprieve.
 
