MUMBAI:   has managed to retain its position as the country's third best institute. The Powai institute is also ranked as the second best engineering institute and fifth in the management category in India after institutes such as NMIMS and SP Jain. In the overall institutions' category, only six from the city make it to the top 200.  's is the only one from the city to figure in the country's top 100 colleges. However, its rank has dropped from 40 to 74. 

 Unsurprisingly,   did not figure in the top 100 universities in the country. In fact, the university's position dropped from the 101-150 band down to 151-200. 
 
  
  
 
 While an official statement released by deputy registrar   said that they would work towards improving its performance under the   parameters for the next ranking cycle, academicians attribute the poor performance to lack of research, patents, consultancy and even poor placements.
 
 A professor said that the university is only focussed on conducting exams and announcing results for the last few years. "Teachers do not have enough time for research. In the semester pattern, exams have to be conducted every six months. Most time is consumed in teaching and assessing papers," said the professor.
 
 Principal Agnelo Menezes from St Xavier's said that he is not very disappointed with the drop. "We have not fared well in research and in government scholarships, so we were expecting a drop in our rank. Ours is an undergraduate college and the focus is more on conducting lectures and exams, which is time consuming. We will work on setting up more endowment scholarships in the years to come," said the principal. Though more colleges have participated in the process this year from Mumbai, the numbers have not exceeded 15. In the state, Pune's   is ranked the best with a 19th rank.
 
 A professor pointed out that many colleges from Delhi have participated in the process for the first time and have taken over the top ranks. Fifty-four of the top 100 colleges in the country are from Delhi, said the professor, which pushed other institutions too.
 
 Medical colleges were ranked for the first time by NIRF. However, not many from Mumbai or Maharashtra participated in the process. Pravin Shingare, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), "We were not informed about the medical category this year. But we will definitely participate in the process next year."
 
 Educationists continue to allege that the process is riddled with discrepancies every year. "The committee does not consider the data provided by the institutes in its entirety. No scientific process is used to compare an engineering institution with a university. The data is handled in an amateurish manner. How can institutions which are specialising in management such as NMIMS and SP Jain or even some of the IIMs perform worse than an IIT, which is primarily an engineering school?" asked a professor. A director of a leading institute pointed out that the ranking agencies are independent bodies world over, unlike NIRF which is launched by the MHRD. "Government institutions are bound to get preferential treatment in such a model," he added.
 
 
