GURUGRAM: Sixteen-year-old   won a second gold medal in the season’s first International   Sport Federation (ISSF) World Cup in  , Mexico, in the mixed team pistol event on March 7. She had won her first gold in the 10m air pistol gold event on March 6.

 The Jhajjar-based girl is set to come back to India on March 14. Speaking on her win, Manu said, “It was a challenge to play in the World Cup. I wanted to prove to everyone that I can do it and I have done that.” Before participating in the games in Mexico, Manu had taken part in the Asian shooting championship in Tokyo and won a silver in December. 
 
  
 Manu studies in Universal Senior Secondary School in Goriya village and is presently awaiting for her Class XI exam results. She has taken up science and wants to become a doctor. “Even though I am an international level shooter, I still want to become a doctor,” said Manu. 
 
 Manu’s father   is a chief engineer in merchant navy. He spends most of his time on ships and regrets not getting much time with his family. “My work doesn’t allow me to spend much time with my family. As a father, I was always worried about my daughter in Haryana. This is the reason I wanted her to take up a sport which would make her confident. Shooting was the answer.”
 
 Manu took up shooting only two years ago. Her mother   said, “She had always been inclined towards sport. When she was in Class VI, Manu played state-level boxing and karate but then she took up shooting and Thang Ta (Manipuri martial arts). Being a sportsperson, she also likes to run in marathons.” 
 
 The Class XI girl had also taken up roller skating and was quite good at it, said Sumedha. The mother added that her daughter was a very tough girl and climbed trees, cycled around the village and played in the mud in her spare time. “When she is not practising shooting, she also likes to listen to music,” she said. 
 
 Universal Senior Secondary School is the only place that has a shooting range in Jhajjar district. “The shooting range in school is not of international standards and is very basic. However, Manu has learnt the art of shooting from this range only,” said Sumedha. Manu qualified for the World Cup in Guadalajara based on her rankings in 2017. She is getting ready for ISSF Junior World Cup Sydney which will start from March 19-29. Manu has also qualified for Commonwealth Games, Australia, which will start in April. She will be in the country for two days only before leaving for Australia to take part in the tournaments.
 
 Speaking from Mexico, Manu spoke about how she has improved as a player. “This tournament has taught me to stay focussed. My concentration level has increased,” she said. 
 
 Shooting is a very expensive sport. Her mother said that they spend nearly Rs22 lakh every year on practice and equipment. “We spend a huge amount on her shooting equipment. Every other day, she wants a new gun but we have been able to give it to her,” said Sumedha. 
 
 
 
