Kolkata: A version of CPM’s draft political resolution — differing from the one placed at the party’s central committee meeting in Kolkata recently — has gone viral among party activists and sympathisers in Bengal. 

 It has come in handy for those advocating that the party should not “mix up” electoral tactic with strategy and drop clause (2.115) of having no understanding or electoral alliance with Congress.
 
 A section of Bengal CPM pointed to the CPM CC’s dropping section (2.112 ix) from the final draft political resolution on display to buttress its point. The section formed a part of the resolution former CPM general secretary Prakash   had placed in the Kolkata meeting.
 
  The section talks about CPM’s electoral tactics at the regional level. “In states where the main force fighting the BJP alliance is a regional party, we may have an understanding with that party even as it enters into an alliance with Congress. In such cases, we should not project any state-level front or alliance with Congress,” Karat’s resolution stated.
 
 The former CPM general secretary inserted this clause drawing experience from the Tamil Nadu elections in 2016 when CPM tied up with DMK that had a tie-up with Congress then. Surprisingly, the draft placed by CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury at the Kolkata CC meeting that got defeated doesn’t mention about any understanding with Congress. “Suitable electoral tactics should be worked out to ensure that the primary objective of ousting this RSS-BJP government and its policies is achieved while not entering into any electoral front or alliance with bourgeois-landlord parties,” it stated. The Karat lobby, however felt that this was a ploy to cobble up an understanding with Congress during elections. 
 
 However, many in the Bengal CPM didn’t like Karat’s “roundabout way” of handholding with Congress in Tamil Nadu while turning down the electoral understanding with Congress in the 2016 Bengal assembly polls. “The Party Congress deliberates on the party’s strategy usually and not the electoral alliance that changes with time. It is good that the section has been dropped from the final draft after accepting amendments to Karat’s resolution,” a CPM state committee member said.
 
 Taking the cue, thousands of party members and sympathisers from Bengal have been sending “delete the clause” amendment in prescribed format, raising eyebrows at the headquarters in Delhi. 
 
 
