NEW DELHI:   Garud commando  , who laid down his life while single-handedly shooting dead two to three terrorists during an encounter in Hajin area of Jammu and Kashmir last November, is all set to be posthumously awarded Ashoka Chakra, the country’s highest peacetime gallantry medal. 

 Altogether six terrorists, including the nephew of   chief and mastermind of the 26/11 terror strikes  , were killed in the fierce gun-battle. 
 
 The Republic Day gallantry awards list is yet to be officially announced but sources said Corporal Nirala (31), who hailed from Badladih village in Rohtas district of Bihar, is likely to become the first-ever IAF airman to get the highest medal for a ground combat operation. Flying officer Nirmaljit Singh Sekhon, a Gnat pilot, was posthumously awarded the Param Vir Chakra for his gallantry during the 1971 war, while Squadron Leader Rakesh Sharma was conferred the Ashoka Chakra for becoming the first Indian cosmonaut in 1984. 
 
 Nirala, who is survived by his widow Sushma, a minor daughter, ailing parents and three unmarried sisters, was part of the small Garud commando batch attached to the Army’s specialised counterinsurgency force, the Rashtriya Rifles, when he displayed the “pre-eminent act of valour” on November 18. The Rashtriya Rifles-Garud team, acting on an intelligence input, had surrounded a house at the Chandragarh village in Hajin area when they came under heavy fire from the terrorists holed up inside. 
 
 “Nirala, armed with a light machine gun, displayed conspicuous bravery in confronting the terrorists and killing two to three of them despite himself being hit by bullets. All six terrorists were killed,” said an official. 
 
 Since last year, small units of Garud commandos are undergoing “battle-inoculation” and “live situational training” with the Rashtriya Rifles for counter-terrorism operations, as part of the decision taken after the terror attack on the Pathankot airbase in January, 2016. Three Garud commandos have laid down their lives in the operations till now.
 
