CHENNAI: Each city household may end up paying four times the present charge when   soon begins charging by the quantity consumed with the help of digital meters.

 Currently, the monthly charge of ₹50 for homes, ₹150 for partly commercial establishments and ₹400 for fully commercial establishments is collected on a half-yearly basis. Once the new system kicks in, charges will be collected on a monthly basis.
 
 In a city where there are around eight lakh water connections, with nearly 10,000 new connections added each year, the  , in the first phase of the project, to install about 12,000 meters for commercial entities by April.
 
 “The tenders for the GPSenabled digital meters will be finalised in February. Based on the success of phase-I we will expand the project to all buildings,” said an official. However, it could take more than a year before the agency is able to kick off the next phase of the project, he added.
 
 Residents, who now pay a meagre amount each month as water tax, may have to cough up ₹20 per 1,000 litres — unless they learn to judiciously use water. The move, officials say, is aimed at garnering more revenue and also avoiding waste resource.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 The electronic meters will also enable the agency to   use from the respective area offices. “The meters will be fitted in the existing meter chambers and the bill will be generated automatically based on consumption,” the official said.
 
 If a resident decides to go outof town on a long vacation, he can stop supply before leaving by shutting off the valve in the  , the official said, adding that the cost of the meters would be recovered from users.
 
 “The meters will help us offer better services. If we fail to supply water, we will not charge the user,” he said. The meters will also help Metrowater detect theft and leaks in pipelines.
 
 
 
 
 Metrowater, which supplies city residents 650 million litres per day (mld), may now increase supply if neighbouring Andhra Pradesh supplies sufficient amount from the Krishna river. Earlier this year, Krishna water released by Andhra Pradesh reached the city at 20 cusecs (566 litres per second). The flow has since increased to 188 cusecs (5300 litres per second). As per an interstate agreement, AP has to supply TN 12 TMC (thousand million cubic feet) every year. In 2017, only 3 TMC was supplied, while in 2016, only 1TMC was supplied. 
 
