CHENNAI: Concerned at the increase in reports of suspected bird hits at Chennai airport, the Airports Authority of India plans to set up with   (corporate social responsibility) funds a solid waste management plant in Pozhichalur which falls in the approach path of planes come in to land. Indiscriminate dumping of garbage in the neighbourhood attracts birds. 

 Though most suspected bird hits are, following inspection of planes, proved wrong, quite a bit of time is lost in the procedure triggered when pilots inform   and ground engineers about seeing birds while landing.
 
 The project proposed will not only help the neighbourhood to reduce garbage pile-up but will also have an indirect benefit for the airport in minimising bird hits.
 
 Airport director G Chandramouli said a project proposal for a plant at Pozhichalur would be sent to   headquarters soon. "It will be approved based on the funds available under CSR scheme. Once approved we will take up the work. It will be useful for the residents. There will be an indirect benefit for the airport."
 
 He was speaking on Wednesday on the sidelines of a function where a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between AAI and Greater Chennai Corporation to set up a 32.6 lakh solid waste management plant near  . The plant, which will benefit the 2.5 lakh residents in the area, is expected to be completed by June. E Karunanidhi, who represents Pallavaram in the state assembly, was present. 
 
 The rules mandate that areas within a 10km radius of an airport do not have garbage dumps or crowded markets that attract birds, especially kites. Though environmental committee meetings are held periodically with local body officials, there is no efficient garbage disposal in neighbourhoods near the airport. The approach path to the main and second runways at Chennai airport is lined by densely-populated areas.
 
 There are no concrete plans to target neighbourhoods in the approach path, but AAI may consider some proposals as the headquarters have asked airports to set up solid waste management plants. The airport director also said that there were plans to set up a solid waste management plant for the airport also.
 
 
