NAGPUR: She is bold, courageous, and has a no-nonsense approach. In work, she takes calculated risks, makes firm decisions, and means business, including breaking the glass ceiling of sorts in the largely male-dominated realm of exports. Meet  , the city’s first businesswoman-exporter.

 While export of oranges from Nagpur is still in the nascent stages, Loharikar has dared to venture into this difficult field. Her first consignment of a tonne of oranges left at 4.20am and reached Dubai early on Friday morning by the   flight. The entire lot was bought by local traders within half an hour. She got an immediate further order, and is planning to send the second lot on Monday. She is exporting the oranges through her firm  , along with her partner Nitesh Murudkar.
 
 Loharikar is using her experience of trading in vegetables from India to Dubai. She lived in Dubai for about 15 years, until two years back, and use to import vegetables from all over Maharashtra to Dubai. But her husband took seriously ill about 2-3 years back, and she had to come back to Nagpur for his treatment. Unfortunately, her husband passed away, and she shifted to Mumbai for business. She has been exporting vegetables for the last two years, sourcing them from Vidarbha and other parts of the state.
 
 When Loharikar came to know that Maha Orange, APEDA (Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority), and MSAMB (Maharashtra State Agricultural Marketing Board) were looking for orange exporters, she immediately jumped into the race. “I know the Dubai market, or in fact the UAE market well. I contacted my clients there and got a very good response from them. Hence, I have decided to export oranges on a regular basis. There is lot of risk involved since oranges are a highly perishable fruit. Though this was a trial consignment, it was worth taking the risk,” she told TOI.
 
 However, like other exporters, Loharikar too hopes that the state government supports them in raising the export of oranges. She says that since she has to pay for the fruit as well as for grading and packaging immediately, she needs a few lakh in credit to maintain her holding capacity. “The importer gives us money only in 30 days. Till then our money is blocked. If the government allows bank loans for this, it would be of great help. Otherwise too, the business is of volumes and not cost,” she said.
 
 
