Sangrur: Four days after Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) of the Punjab Police gunned down dreaded gangster Vicky Gounder and his accomplices in Hindumalkot area on the Punjab-Rajasthan border, another notorious gangster Ravicharan Singh alias Ravi Deol, who is wanted by the police of three districts, on Tuesday surrendered before a local court. 

 Ravi Deol, whose famous Punjabi number ‘Sada Ki Kasoor Sada Shehr Sangrur’ had been topping the charts, has two NDPS cases, two cases of assault on police officials and an attempt to murder case registered against him at Sangrur. He is also wanted by the Patiala and Fatehgarh Sahib police after his name cropped up in the multi-crore synthetic drug trade, which was being run by wrestler-turned-DSP-turned drug kingpin Jagdish Bhola.
 
 After his surrender, Deol was first sent into judicial custody following which the district police moved an application seeking his remand. The court then sent him in police remand till February 3.
 
 While investigating the multi-crore synthetic drug, the Fatehgarh Sahib police had recovered 5 kg Ice and 90 kg of pseudoephedrine, a banned performance-enhancing substance used by sportspersons, from Deol’s Sohian road residence in 2013. After he was booked by the police in a number of cases, he had uploaded a video on YouTube alleging that he along with his brother-in-law Ram Singh, a dismissed cop from the Punjab police, were being falsely implicated by the police.
 
 According to SSP Sangrur MS Sidhu, Deol had moved out of Sangrur after multiple cases were registered against him and he kept on shifting his base from Punjab, Chandigarh, Delhi and Mumbai. While being in Mumbai, Ravi had tried his hand at modelling and singing. 
 
 He is also said to have known Beijing Olympics bronze medallist boxer Vijender Singh, but after his name cropped up in several cases the boxer had reportedly snapped ties with him. Deol’s brother-in-law Ram Singh was the Vijender’s sparring partner and was dismissed from service in 2013 after his name appeared in the synthetic drug case.
 
 It was also learnt that a total of eight cases are pending against Ravi in the three districts, while he had been acquitted in seven. 
 
 
