The close connection between two cultures, that of Awadh and the French, were well depicted at the five-day festival organised by   in the city recently. Organized at   and Salempur House, with the theme of ‘Francisi Awadhi Taaluqaat’, Lucknowites witnessed an overwhelming evening with cultural activities ranging from dance, play, music, mushaira, food festival and more. The center of attraction of the festival was the exhibition that brought some of the rarest 18th and 19th century paintings from Victoria and Albert Museum in London, Museum for Islamische Kunst in Berlin to be displayed in Lucknow. A splendid photo exhibition at Salempur House also stole the show.

  
  Vipul Kumar and Aisha Ayub giving daad at the mushaira (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmed Siddiqui) 
 
  
  Seriyah dance performance at   (BCCL/ Manoj Chabra) 
 
 The inauguration of the festival saw a spectacular Oddisi dance presentation 'Seriyah' by dancers of   at La Martiniere College. Performed by Surupa Sen, Bijayini Sarpathy, Pavitra Reddy, the dance won several applause from the audience. 
 The following days were full of cultural and literary events that attracted a large crowd to the Baradari. 'Baid Baazi', which is similar to antakshri, was the major highlight for the evening on day one. The two teams which participated were led by Naseem Iqdar and Sabiham Anwar who gave a tough competition to each other in sher-o-shayri. 
 
  
  (L-R) Durjye Bhaumik, Ankita Damde and   performing at dawn in Baradari (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmed Siddiqui and Vishnu Jaiswal) 
 
  
  Some of Lucknow’s leading ladies participated in the Baid Bazi, reciting shers at Safed Baradari (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmed Siddiqui and Vishnu Jaiswal) 
 
  
  Ali Hamid and Sara (L) and Sanaa (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmed Siddiqui and Vishnu Jaiswal) 
 
  
  Ali Khan Mehmudabad, Ammar Rizvi and Arshiya (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmed Siddiqui and Vishnu Jaiswal) 
 
  
  Atul Tewari and Anjali Tewari enjoying some desi food at the food festival (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmed Siddiqui and Vishnu Jaiswal) 
 
  
  The food festival witnessed a huge turnout while Sabika Abbas' shayari kept the guests engrossed (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmed Siddiqui and Vishnu Jaiswal) 
 
  
  (L-R) Madhavi Kuckreja, Prof Rakesh Chandra and Runa Bennerjee (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmed Siddiqui and Vishnu Jaiswal) 
 
  
  (L-R) Manjari Mishra, Sangeeta Singh and Alka Singh (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmed Siddiqui and Vishnu Jaiswal) 
 
  
  Inderpal Singh and Naaz (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmed Siddiqui and Vishnu Jaiswal) 
 
 A classical music performance by Padma Talwalker, famous classical singer of the   gharana, at dawn, witnessed a huge gathering of classical music lovers of the city. Singing some famous classical bandish like Albela Sajan Aayo Re, Kya Karun Sajni, the singer was accompanied by Durjye Bhaumik on tabla, Paromita Mukarji on the harmonium and Ankita Damde on the tanpura. 
 The festival concluded on a grand scale with a Jazz performance by Mezcal Jazz Unit along with Bickram Ghosh which took the audience on a journey of musical excellence. Lead by bass player and composer Emmanuel De Gouvello. Mezcal Jazz Unit and Bickram Ghosh rejuvenated the experience and introduced Lucknow to a beautiful musical melange. The performance gave the festival a beautiful wrap.
 
  — Prachi Arya
 
