A good command of numerical and chemical reactions is a must to score well in Chemistry, says Abha Chaudhary, chemistry teacher at Patna’s Notre Dame Academy as Faryal Rumi seeks her advice for Class XII examinees. Excerpts:

 How can students remember reactions in chemistry?
 
 First they have to understand the reactant that is converted into products; they have to memorise it with the name of their reagent and catalyst. If students find it difficult to memorise it, they should speak it audibly. The significance of the reaction is that it converts A into B in the presence of reagent C. By asking questions to themselves, students can remember reactions.
 
 How should they handle numerical and chemical formulas?
 
 They have already understood how the formulas have come from. For numericals, they need to read the questions properly. The question itself helps them answer that question. They should write in rough what the question is asking for and what’s the objective of that question. Solid State, Solution, Electrochemistry and Chemical Kinetics are four important chapters to solve the numerical and chemical formulas. One reasoning graph is there in Electrochemistry that is quite important.
 
 Is there any trick to memorise periodic table?
 
 There will be no questions as such from periodic table in Class XII  . Reasoning questions are asked. Students should do exercise questions and solve example questions only from the NCERT book. 
 
 How to score well in chemistry practical?
 
 In practical, there are three experiments — titration, organic- functional group identification and salt analysis. If students aspire to score well, they should be ready with these experiments as the viva questions are based on these experiments. If the students fail to answer these questions, externals ask which chapter they are good at. I, therefore, advise students to prepare two chapters for the viva. 
 
 Last-minute tips for examinees…
 
 Students should solve as many sample papers as possible. At least, 10 papers should be solved. The NCERT book is good enough to help students score well in Class XII and competitive exams like IIT-JEE. 
 
 Things that should be kept in mind while writing the paper…
 
 Students should answer questions with the help of chemical reactions. Chemical formula in each reaction should be written with their units. If students don’t write units, they would lose marks. Numerical should be attempted step-wise. No need to worry whether they get the answers correct. Evaluators give marks on the steps.
 
 
