RAJKOT: Two burglars, who had brutally thrashed a 62-year-old widow of a renowned industrialist in   and looted cash and ornaments worth Rs 25 lakh on April 13, were arrested on Sunday. 

 The burglars were identified as Aizaz Vagher alias Ejalo (30), a resident of   in Salaya of   district, and Yusuf Sumra alias Chhapari (30), who lives in Sumra ni Chali in Jamnagar. Both the accused are history-sheeters. Aizaz has earlier been arrested in robbery, theft and physical assault cases. Two months ago, he had fled from police custody after attacking the cops who had come to arrest him. Yusuf has also been booked for robbery, theft and physical assault cases. 
 
 “The duo was nabbed from the Jamnagar State Transport bus stand from where they were going to board buses for Rajkot and Ahmedabad to sell off the booty consisting of gold and silver jewellery,” said an official from Jamnagar local crime branch. Police recovered 1,150 gram gold jewellery, Rs 66,000 cash and a knife from them. They were caught in one of the CCTVs near the house and later police questioned some history-sheeters to get more clues.
 
 “During interrogation, the duo said that they knew about the wealth the woman possessed and decided to loot her. They had also conducted a recce of her house for the three days before striking,” Pradip Sejul, Jamnagar superintendent of police (SP), told media persons. 
 
 The robbery victim, Sharda  , is the widow of late Jayanti Kankhara, a well-known name in Jamnagar industrial circle and the Bhanushali community. She lives alone in the bungalow ‘Riddhi Siddhi’ located in Digvijay Plot area. Sometime between 2am and 3am on the night of April 13, Aizaz and Yusuf broke into the house and woke her up. They tied her, stuffed her mouth with a cloth and started beating her till she fell unconscious. 
 
 The accused then took away Rs 10 lakh in cash, 50 tola gold ornaments (worth around Rs 16 lakh), gold biscuits and other jewellery including that of diamonds worth Rs 25 lakh from the safe and cupboards.
 
 In the morning, when she regained consciousness, she started shouting for help. The neighbours then took her to the hospital and informed the police. Kankhara’s son Mukesh is also no more, while her grandson Mitesh lives separately with his mother in a flat near the bungalow. He lodged a complaint in this case.
 
 Cops said that the CCTV cameras installed in the bungalows were non-functional. 
 
 While Jamnagar SP Sejul visited the spot of crime, the local crime branch (LCB) joined the probe with the A-Division police station where the offence had been lodged.
 
 
