Manali: The official website to book permit for   and other areas beyond Gulaba has become a headache for tourists and taxi operators, who are spending hours on it yet failing to book any. There are complains that the site server remains mostly down and that the website does not work when online permits are opened twice a day for bookings.

 The website was built after   ( ) directed the   government to issue permits online for convenience of travellers and to bring in transparency. The website has been built by National Informatics Centre (NIC) and remained in controversy for its speed and failure to automatically refund payments. 
 
 A taxi operator Surender Thakur said the site opens for permits at 10am and 4pm daily, but the server does not respond until all permits are booked by unknown users. “I have been trying since Wednesday evening, but not got a single permit. Earlier, I thought something was wrong with my computer or the internet connection. But then all taxi operators I know started complaining about the same problem. The website starts working again when all permits are issued,” he said.
 
 “Even tourists are upset. All the sites built by private professionals are capable of handling any traffic and work smoothly. If NIC is not capable of making it work, the site should be handed over to a private firm. Why should lakhs of tourists and taxi operators suffer because of a faulty website,” complained another taxi operator Rohit Boktapa.
 
 Another taxi operator Duni Chand said he does all the works online and is well versed with online booking. “But this permit website is very tricky. Most of the taxi operators pay Rs 500 to 1,000 to a cyber café owner, travel agent and others to get a permit booked. That is why operators, who have permit in hand, are charging a fare of Rs 5,000 an more to take tourists to Marhi, 35km from here.”
 
 The online permits are available for 200 diesel and 400 petrol vehicles each per shift, making it 400 diesel and 800 petrol vehicle permits every day. The permit is available after paying online permit fee of Rs 500 and congestion charges of Rs 50. 
 
 Kullu deputy commissioner Yunus said they are improving the website regularly and are making required changes to make website smooth and user friendly. Transport minister Govind Singh Thakur said the officers concerned will be directed to rectify the errors as soon as possible.
 
 
