Bengaluru: Sending feelers for the possible formation of a third front ahead of 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati on Saturday launched a scathing attack on the Congress and the BJP in her first public rally after the decimation of her party in last year’s Uttara Pradesh assembly elections.

 “The ghatbandhan (alliance) with the JD(S) is aimed at fighting the unjust social and political order of the Congress and BJP,” Mayawati said at the mammoth rally in Bengaluru organized to formally launch the JD(S)-BSP combined poll campaign in Karnataka. 
 
 The rally billed as the “mother of all rallies” lived up the expectations and it was the biggest political rallies held in the recent times in Karnataka. This is the first time since 1996 the BSP has gone for a pre-poll alliance and chosen to play second fiddle to the JD(S) in Karnataka apparently in a bid to strengthen the third front to fight 2019 polls, which political experts view as Mayawati’s agenda to revive her dwindling fortunes in the home state. 
 
 Recalling how the Congress had been “a bane” for Dalit community and its leaders, including B R Ambedkar, Mayawati said: “People of Karnataka should not be swayed by the emotional and divisive agenda of the Congress to woo Dalits during polls. The Siddaramaiah-government in the past five years has failed to make an impact on the lives of Dalits and the poor though he emulated several of our schemes initiated in UP.” 
 
 Attacking the Narendra Modi-government later, the BSP chief alleged that the BJP too has adopted an aggressive behaviour towards Dalits, backward classes, religious minorities and farmers and made them feel insecure. “The economic condition of the common man and farmers has gone from bad to worse during the four-year rule, because of his misrule and wrong policies including demonetization,’’ she said. She urged the people to reject the Congress and BJP and promote parties which possess a ‘missionary zeal’.
 
 Gowda called the ghatbandhan with BSP as a pleasant and significant transformation in the history of Karnataka. “Don’t underestimate the strength of Mayawati. She can change all equations provided we give her some momentum on the ground. Please ensure the photographs of Mayawati and Kumaraswamy are put together in every nook and corner of the state and you will see the results,” he claimed.
 
 
