NEW DELHI/BENGALURU: The bell has rung for another BJP-Congress faceoff with the Election Commission announcing a one-day poll in Karnataka on May 12. The contest is seen as a quarterfinal ahead of the assembly polls in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh later this year, and the Lok Sabha elections next year.

 The poll — the results of which will be announced on May 15 — is already heated with BJP and Congress keenly aware of the importance of the prize. 
 
  
 A loss will rob the Congress of one of two major states it is in office; the BJP needs a win to regain the momentum it lost after SP and BSP came together to win two prestigious UP bypolls despite a saffron victory in Tripura.
 
 Karnataka is important for the BJP as a success here will mark a re-entry in the south by regaining a state it lost to the Congress five years ago after a rebellion by its senior leader BS Yeddyurappa. In a turn of events, Yeddyurappa, who returned to the BJP ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, is leading the party campaign, while the party will bank on PM Modi as its mascot.
 
 Newly installed Congress chief Rahul Gandhi is campaigning hard and the stakes are high for him as the party needs to prove its success in running BJP close in Gujarat was not a flash in the pan due to prolonged incumbency of a saffron government. CM Siddaramaiah has raised the stakes by declaring the contest as one between “communalism and secularism”.
 
 Karnataka will yet again test the Congress’s ability to take on the BJP as the record has favoured the saffronites since Modi became PM. As of now, Punjab is the only other major state it holds and retaining Karnataka is crucial to the Congress’s claim to being the main anti-BJP force and Rahul’s credentials as the primary challenger to Modi.
 
 In Karnataka, the battleground issues are a medley of governance gripes, Hindutva, caste combinations and minority wooing. The BJP has accused Siddaramaiah of seeking to divide Hindu society by proposing to identify Lingayats as a separate religious minority though the Congress claims it is a legitimate demand of the community. The state government’s decision to celebrate Tipu Sultan Jayanti has resulted in a political scrum, with the BJP accusing Congress of another divisive move and the secular-communal faultline heating up.
 
 The BJP is looking to a Hindutva consolidation to counter the caste combinations that Siddaramaiah is relying on. The CM, an OBC, is looking to leverage the backward vote in his favour. The move to declare Lingayats as a religious minority is a serious challenge for BJP and the party is hoping Yeddyurappa’s credentials as the leader from the community will prevent votes from drifting away from the party.
 
 
