GHAZIABAD: A two-and-a-half-year-old girl who had stepped out into the lane outside her home carrying an ice lolly in her hand was dragged to a nearby sugarcane field by a pack of strays and mauled to death in Ghaziabad’s   on Monday afternoon.

 When her parents found her in the field after two hours of frantic search, the pack had already bitten off her ears and mauled a portion of her hands. She was rushed to a community centre in Modinagar, where doctors declared her dead on arrival.
 
 The girl,  , lived with her parents in a two-storied house in  . Her father is a private electrician while her mother a homemaker.
 
 “Our relatives and their children had come over for the summer vacations. Shivanya and the other kids were playing outside when an ice cream vendor was passing by. All of them were given an ice lolly each and told to go inside in the scorching heat. While the other kids went inside, Shivanya walked to the lane just outside home, eating her ice cream. She could not be found for two hours after that,” Shivanya’s uncle, Vijender, told TOI.
 
 Shivanya’s family and neighbours launched a search for her when they could not find her at home or the terrace. After a two-hour search, they found her mutilated body in the sugarcane field. The lane outside Shivanya’s house was deserted as most people remained indoors in the scorching afternoon heat, which is probably why no one saw her being attacked by the pack.
 
 “Some five strays in our lane had been biting kids in the recent past. We spotted one of the dogs on the edge of the field. When we went inside the growing canes, we found Shivanya lying covered in blood. Around four of the dogs were still mauling the body. They had torn flesh off her legs, hands and abdomen. Both her ears were missing. We chased away the dogs and took her to the health centre,” said Vijender.
 
 Police said the family was yet to lodge any complaint. “They have informed us about the incident, but have not sought any police action so far,” said Modinagar SHO Gajendra Pal Singh.
 
 Residents of Bhimnagar said a pack of around half-a-dozen strays had bitten two to three kids in the area over the past one week. “Around seven days ago, these dogs had attacked a girl and were trying to maul her. She was saved by some passersby. The dogs stay in the nearby jungles. Earlier, there was a tannery near the jungle where dead buffaloes and cows would be skinned. The strays used to feed on the carcasses and roam in the jungle. Now that the tannery has been shut for the past two years, the dogs have been venturing into human settlements in Bhimnagar,” local councillor Pradeep Sharma said.
 
 Officials in the  , which is responsible for civic amenities in Bhimnagar, said they were in talks with NGOs to undertake a campaign to sterilise the dogs.
 
 “We have taken note. Sanitary inspectors have been directed to immediately take steps and end the menace created by stray dogs. We are exploring options according to the rule of law on how to rein in the population of stray dogs,” said  , the executive officer of the local civic body.
 
 
