Trichy: The learning outcome of students in Class VIII in mathematics and science in government and government-aided schools in Trichy remained poor, going by national achievement survey-2017 of the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT). The average performance in mathematics was found to be below 40 % in Trichy. 

 The overall average performance of eighth standard students in Trichy was only 30.87%, according to the survey done on November 13 last year among 546 students in government schools and 654 in government-aided schools.
 
  In the central region, the survey was carried out in seven districts – Trichy, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagappattinam, Perambalur, Karur and Pudukkottai. Class VIII students in all the other six districts also failed to make an impressive performance in mathematics, except the students of Perambalur who scored slightly higher by achieving the overall average performance of 42.94 %.
 
 In fact, the overall average performance of Class VIII students across the state also remained low at 35.17 %. The result was better in mathematics in Class 5 in the districts with the overall average performance ranging between 39.01 in Trichy and 60.84 in Perambalur. Interestingly, Class 3 students in all the seven districts fared well in mathematics with an average performance ranging from 52.51 % in Trichy to a maximum of 67.37% in Perambalur. 
 
 The survey also revealed the poor learning outcome of Class VIII students in science in all the seven districts with Trichy coming last with an overall average performance of 31.68 %. As far as environmental science (EVS) was concerned, the overall average performance of Class 3 and Class 5 students was normal. 
 
 The performance of Class 3 students in Perambalur district topped the list with 71.05 % among the other districts in the region. In Trichy, the average performance in EVS was also not impressive with 44.25 % recorded in Class 5. However, the learning outcome of Class 3 students in EVS was 57.12 %. 
 
 The learning outcome was reasonable among students of Class 3, 5 and 8 in language with the score remaining above 50 % in all the seven districts in the region. Students of the three classes in Perambalur proved better than those in other districts with a score above 60 % in overall average performance.
 
 
