KOZHIKODE: The ongoing central-sponsored project to relocate 800 families in 14 forest settlements inside   (WWS), billed as one of the largest voluntary relocation programmes in  , has been crippled with the state government taking back the Rs 18 crore central fund allotted for the project.

 Greens have flayed the move by the state government to lay hands on the allotted central fund and raised concern that it would affect the remaining allocations from the Mo-EF for the Rs 80-crore project as the last date to provide utilization certificate to MoEF is February 15.
 
 The transfer of unspent funds worth over Rs 5,000 crore from the 367 treasury accounts in the state to the consolidated fund of the state was made as per the order issued by principal secretary (finance) in January as part of financial streamlining process. The Rs 21 crore fund, including Rs 3 crore allotted by the state government, was deposited by forest department in the joint treasury account of the district collector and ITDP project officer for the relocation project.
 
 Forest department deposited the fund in this account ‘by mistake’ despite the collector maintaining a separate bank account exclusively for the project.
 
 “The act of taking back the funds allotted by the central government is highly improper. We fear that it would affect the future of the project itself as the state will miss the February 15 deadline to submit utilization certificate to MoEF. Already the treasury curbs which were in place have delayed the payment of compensation,” N Badusha, president of   said.
 
 Wayanad district collector   has sent a letter to the finance principal secretary urging to immediately re-allocate the fund and has also sought transferring the amount to the dedicated account maintained by collector in Canara Bank, exclusively for the project.
 
 The collector said in the letter that the meeting of MLAs from the district has pointed out that any further delay in providing compensation to the 150 families from   settlement would even create law and order problems.
 
 Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary Farmer Welfare Committee, an organization of settler farmers inside the forest, said that though central and state governments had allotted Rs 48 crore for the project so far, only 250 families from nine settlements had been relocated by spending Rs 25 crore and the remaining fund had been lying unspent for close to one year.
 
