MUMBAI: The   widening work will be completed by May next year. This deadline to finish the long-pending work of   was set by chief minister   during a three-hour meeting held on Saturday.

 The deadline is just in time for the general elections and state assembly elections slated to be held in 2019.
 
 With an eye on the 2019 assembly polls, Fadnavis and Union minister for road transport and highways   reviewed all ongoing and pending road works in the state at the meeting.
 
 Road work to the tune of nearly Rs 66,000 crore, stretching over more than 5,000 km across the state has been pending for various reasons, including land acquisition and shifting of utilities like electric poles, water pipelines among others. At the meeting, Fadnavis set March as the deadline to acquire land and directed the collectors of all districts, where such work has been pending, to complete the process.
 
 On the Mumbai-Goa highway, work on the 84km Panvel-Indapur stretch in Raigad district has begun after a delay of six years. This delay was spurred by financial troubles faced by the contractor, Supreme Infra. It is expected to complete by May this year. This work is being carried out under the central government’s highway-widening
 
 programme. It is being executed by the  .
 
 The 366-km stretch from Indapur to Zharap, which is being executed by the state’s public works department, is slated for completion by May 2019. “Work of acquiring land in Ratnagiri is to be completed,” said a senior official. “This part of the project will cost is Rs 10,000 crore with cost of compensation for land.”
 
 At Saturday’s meeting, 71 projects under the state agencies and 26 pending projects under National Highway Authority of India were reviewed. Officials present at the meeting said that another pending project also includes four-laning of the Mumbai-Vadodara highway.
 
 Gadkari said the secretary of the forest department should convene a meeting with the National Highway Authority of India to expedite permissions from the forest department for road development.
 
 
