Vadodara: Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) commissioner Vinod Rao called on Raopura BJP MLA Yogesh Patel at the latter’s residence on Thursday. Patel has gone all out against Rao on two occasions since last week and levelled charges against him.

 Patel and Rao found themselves on the opposite ends regarding the contract for Sanjaynagar slum redevelopment project in Warasiya area . Alleging irregularities in the project, Rao had issued notices to the developer on December 4. 
 
 The VMC had alleged that the developer had violated tender conditions by changing the stakes of companies that were a part of the joint venture (JV) that took up the work. It was also alleged that the tender of a storm water drain was brought out by VMC despite the fact that the job was to be done by the developer.
 
 The controversy took an ugly turn with Patel being linked to the issue and it being alleged that he had met chief minister Vijay Rupani on behalf of the developer. Patel has maintained that he had been approached by the developers who were arguing that they were being wrongly victimised. Patel had been pointing fingers at Rao hinting that he was involved in maligning him. Patel even made graft allegations against Rao and minced no words in targeting him.
 
 Late on Thursday afternoon, Rao and his wife went to the residence of Patel in the Amdavadi Pol. While leaving Patel’s house, Rao spoke to the media for the first time after the controversy had erupted. 
 
 Rao said that he had come to meet Patel to discuss some issues in public domain and resolve them. He even added that he had ‘family relations’ with Patel for the last seven-eight years.
 
 Commenting on the housing scheme row, Rao said that while a preliminary inquiry was being conducted in the matter there was no scam in the scheme in his opinion. He hinted that irregularities or illegalities were different issues. 
 
 “There can be something that is totally illegal or mistakes in procedures. The system has mechanisms to correct errors in procedures, but illegal things cannot be made legal,” Rao said.
 
 Rao added that a legal opinion had been sought regarding the scheme. He added that it did not seem that there was something illegal in the scheme as of now. “The government has appointed a probe and the results will come out soon,” he said.
 
 Patel said that he had taken up the issue of a tender for the first time in his public life. “I did so because I felt that injustice was being done. I spoke to the commissioner, but after that problems happened,” said Patel. 
 
 He pointed out that he was dragged into reports regarding the alleged scam. “The question as who was doing this and through whom,” he said. Patel added that he had told certain things to the commissioner and if these were clarified there was no reason to fight.
 
 
