JAIPUR: A 76-year-old woman and her 39-year-old son, both hailing from Agra, were found dead inside a hotel on   area of the city on Sunday night. Police suspect it to be a case of suicide.

 The deceased were identified as   and Ankit Agarwal. They were residents of   area in Agra.
 
 According to relatives, the mother and son had left home on February 13 on the pretext of visiting   shrine in Jammu.
 
 The bodies were first discovered by a hotel staffer who knocked on the door to inform the guests about check-out time.
 
 “They had checked in on February 20,” said a hotel staff,” said a hotel staffer.
 
 
 
 
 "They rarely stepped out of their room and wore same clothes most of the time. They were supposed to check out on Friday morning but extended their stay. They also ordered two glasses of buttermilk in the evening,” said a hotel employee on the condition of anonymity.
 
 At 10 am on Saturday, the hotel’s reception desk called at intercom to tell Ankit about the check-out time. When he did not answer, the hotel staff opened the room at 11.30 am and found the bodies.
 
 Anil, brother-in-law of Ankit, told TOI that Ankit lived with his mother and ran a small stationery shop near Vijay Nagar in Agra.
 
 “He had divorced his wife 10 years back. He had incurred losses in business but never told us anything,” Anil said, adding that Ankit and his mother had left Agra on February 13.
 
 “After leaving Agra, they switched off their mobile phones and became untraceable. We tried their numbers multiple times but did not get any answer,” he said.
 
 The Jaipur police suspect that Ankit had laced buttermilk with poison. “The exact cause of death will be ascertained only when after the autopsy. They had consumed buttermilk and we suspect that some poison was mixed in it,” said Radmal Singh, SHO, Sadar police station.
 
 Stains of vomit were found on Ankit’s shirt, bed and floor. A broken glass was also lying on the floor. “He must have vomited the fluid. We have not found any major injuries,” Singh said, adding that the bodies would be kept at the mortuary and autopsy would be conducted on Sunday.
 
