NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Friday ordered the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) to reinstate a dean and four chairpersons of different schools and centres of learning, after they agreed to implement the mandatory attendance requirement of 75% decided by the varsity’s academic council.

 The university had in March replaced seven heads of the various schools and centres in JNU for not following the mandatory attendance requirement introduced as per the new rules. Those affected had challenged the removal order in the high court. Justice Rekha Palli, while ordering their reinstatement, also issued notice to the university and sought its reply on their plea which also challenged the legality of the 75% attendance requirement, besides their replacement as deans and chairpersons.
 
 Following HC’s intervention, JNU has to reinstate Kavita Singh (  and Aesthetics),   (Centre for English Studies, School of Language, Literature and Cultural Studies), Dhir Sarangi (School of Language, Literature and Cultural Studies),   (School of International Studies) and   ( ). The order came after senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the five petitioners gave an undertaking that the mandatory attendance requirement would be followed by them till the matter is finally decided on its validity. He also apprised the court that though agreeing to follow the attendance requirement, the petitioners have not given up their challenge to the legality of the procedure followed to bring the norms into effect.
 
 Central government standing counsel Monika Arora, appearing for JNU, told the court that the varsity has no objection to the reinstatement of the teachers as deans and chairpersons so long as they follow the attendance norms. She maintained that the attendance norms were fixed according to the   (UGC) regulations as per which 75% attendance is mandatory in the wake of the dropout rate among students and the professors complaining of consistent absence by students. The AC in its 144th meeting held on December 1 last year had made 75% attendance mandatory for students but the teachers had refused to implement it, terming it illegal.
 
