SHIMLA: The   in the hill town of Shimla has deepened to such an extent that even the   councillors have come out to   against it. The BJP-led state government and the municipal corporation have failed to provide adequate drinking   to the residents, with some areas not receiving water supply for the last 8-10 days. 

 While the government has informed the state high court that water was being distributed in according to the schedule being released on daily basis, the residents allege that the schedule was not being followed and many areas mentioned in the list did not get water on the due date.
 
 Meanwhile, angry residents who have been without water for the last over a week blocked the Chandigarh-Shimla national highway at Ghora Chowki on Thursday. It was only after the police officials intervened and pacified them that the traffic was able to resumed on the busy highway. Similarly, residents also blocked a road at Chakkar to protest not getting water supply for the last 10 days. They said water being supplied through the tankers was not sufficient and after standing in long queues for hours together, they were only getting a bucket or two of water.
 
 Joining in the protest, BJP councillors Arti Chauhan from Engine Ghar ward and Kamlesh Mehta from Dhalli sat on a dharna outside the MC office demanding water to their areas. Chauhan and Mehta lifted dharna only after deputy mayor Rakesh Sharma assured them to resolve their issues. Chauhan said water was supplied to her area after six days as per schedule but this was not sufficient. "I was left with no other option but to sit on indefinite strike to ensure water for my area,' she added.
 
 Some residents of Benmore ward sat on dharna outside the residence of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday morning demanding water as their area had not received water for the last nine days. Though BJP councillor Kimi Sood was seen standing with the protesters, she denied taking part in any protest. "Our house is located next to the CM residence and we had not given any dharna...we were tired so sat in front of the gate," she said.
 
 Ironically, at a time when residents are struggling for every single drop of water, officials have failed to plug leakages in the supply lines despite the HC and the state government directions. BJP councilor from Sanjauli ward, Satya Kaundal was seen crying on Thursday after she saw water being wasted due to leakage in a storage tank at Sanjauli.
 
 
