HUBBALLI: While the cases of violation of the   (MCC) and   (EEM) in the ongoing assembly election are continuing to be reported in  , the   in similar violations during the previous election is just 16.4%.

 According to data obtained from the Ballari district administration, 31 expenditure related FIRs were registered in 2013 and 42 cases for MCC violation. Of them, accused in 26 cases have been acquitted while   have been submitted in four cases for  . Three cases are pending trial. The number of cases in which the accused were convicted is 12. Interestingly, there were no cases of paid news in the previous election.
 
 The MCC is a set of norms for conduct and behavior on part of political parties in general and candidates in particular.   sources said that MCC is a document that originated and evolved with the consensus of political parties. It intends to provide a level playing field for all political parties, keep the campaign fair and healthy, avoid clashes and conflicts between parties and ensure peace and order. It aims to ensure that the ruling party, either at the Centre or in the states, does not misuse its official position to gain an unfair advantage in an election.
 
 When it comes to expenditure, section 77(1) of the  , 1951 makes it mandatory for every candidate to keep a separate and correct account of all expenditure incurred or authorised by him or by his election agent, between the date on which he was nominated and the date of declaration of the result of election, both dates inclusive. The total of the said expenditure shall not exceed such amount as may be prescribed under section 77(3) of Act.
 
 Ballari deputy commissioner and district election officer V Ram Prasath Manohar told TOI that chargesheets were filed in connection with the violations. “The acquittals were due to the lack of evidence or for not committing the offense. Several measures are being taken to provide strong evidence to the court to prove the offense of violators,” he added.
 
 
