By Sunil Rahar
 
The municipal corporation had taken the decision amid much fanfare on March 7 this year. While the civic body wanted to encourage a culture of   in the city with the move, not even 1% of its employees are willing to opt for it.
 
 This Wednesday, two officials and three employees chose to cycle to work.
 
 Some employees could be seen leaving their vehicles at parking lots nearby and behind the MC building. A woman staffer could even be seen trying to hide her helmet after parking her scooter at the Sector 17 office of the  , which is next to the MC office.
 
 Most of the woman employees used public transport to reach office, while a few of them used auto-rickshaws and cabs. According to an MC official who did not want to be named, most employees park their vehicles in other parking lots at Sector 17 and then walk to work.
 
 Right at the start of this initiative, around 100 employees came to work on bicycles. MC additional commissioner  , who was among the two officials who cycled to work, said, “This initiative was not mandatory, but advisory. I will send a report to the commissioner and inform him that less number of employees are coming on bicycle to work.”
 
 To encourage cycling, MC had also announced to start giving bicycles on rent. However, the initiative is yet to be started. A senior official said the initiative was good, but MC employees were treating it like a burden. “See, the initiative is really good. But employees and officials must understand that it’s not only good for environment or improving city’s traffic situation, it’s also good for their health. They first must admit to cycling being a good habit. Only then, will this initiative succeed,” said the official.
 
  president   said many bottlenecks prevented residents from using bicycles as a mode of transport. “Traffic is a major problem. Most people are scared to cycle in the morning. Lack of infrastructure and cycling tracks is another problem. We have to change our mindsets,” he said.
 
 PU Bicycle Lovers’ Group founder   said awareness was needed to be spread awareness about the benefits of cycling. “We need to make people aware of how they will benefit from cycle riding. People should respect cyclists. Many people don’t ride bicycles because they feel it does not match their wealth and people would assume they are poor,” he said.
 
 
