PUNE: Engaged in the trade of raw materials required to make Ayurvedic medicines for nearly 100 years, three shops nestled in Tulshibaug are experiencing a boom due to growing inclination towards use of natural products.

 With greater awareness, even internationally, store owners believe that healing through Ayurveda is only set to grow in the coming years. 
 
 Speaking about his store, Kanhaiya Gujar of Gokuldas Govardhandas said, “Our shop is now about 100 years old and, over the years, the demand for Ayurvedic products has remained constant. We continue to deal in all products we had when the shop started and people still buy them. We once had products that were exclusively available at our store but with poor demand, our stocks started getting spoilt and we discontinued such items.”
 
 Sitting in a shop emanating a peculiar aroma of spices and herbs, with walls lined with numerous drawers that hold various powders and dry herbs, Gujar stated that the coming of bigger brands dealing in Ayurvedic items has only provided a thrust to the market. “Bigger brands have publicized and popularized Ayurveda and natural products. Due to this, many people are moving back to consumption and use of Ayurvedic products. Some products like amla, kadu jeera, kadu neem, methi, saptrangi, jambul, kapur, asmantara and ovaful have been in high demand over the last few years due to their healing properties. People suffering from diabetes or joint pain are opting for these powders and herbs to gain relief,” he explained. 
 
 Another Ayurvedic trader Hrushikesh   of Ambadas Vanaushadhi said that the business was and will remain profitable. “Our shop was established in 1939 and we have seen a gradual rise in sales. With some people complaining of reactions and side effects to allopathy and antibiotic medicine, the importance of Ayurveda has grown of late. People are once again opting for natural products thus providing a boost to sales. People demand certain Ayurvedic remedies based on articles they have read. While the impact is positive in some cases, it is always better to consume these products in consultation with a doctor,” Ranade shared. 
 
 He also mentioned that thanks to easier global access new Ayurvedic materials have come into the market. “While we maintain more or less the same products that we had when the shop started, some products have gone off the shelves. Some products were banned or not available in the wild and so we had to do away with those. Meanwhile, products like Kawasi and Panirful, which are not found in India, have found their way into our stock due to ease of access,” Ranade explained. 
 
 He further said that the Ayurveda market has expanded a lot in the recent past. “We have seen that many Ayurveda shops have now cropped up across the city and these deal in various finished Ayurvedic products. Many such products are also available off the rack in medical stores. However, we remain among the very few stores that deal in raw materials and thus our market remains strong,” Ranade stated.
 
 
