JAIPUR: Security has been tightened for outgoing BJP president and MLA Ashok   following anonymous extortion threats.

 A senior police official told TOI that a threat was issued to Parnami on his WhatsApp number on Sunday and Monday, following which security was increased.
 
 Parnami, MLA from Adarsh Nagar constituency, had complained to police commissioner   on Monday about somebody asking him to pay either Rs 10 lakh in three days or bear the consequences. Parnami had also received a WhatsApp call on his number but he did not pick it up.
 
 The initial investigation shows that the call was made from a foreign number; however, the cops also suspect that the caller may have routed through different servers to hide his identity. The police said they are taking the help of cyder experts to ascertain if the call was indeed from Pakistan.
 
 Apart from Jaipur police, the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS),   (SOG) and intelligence agencies are looking after Parnami’s security.
 
 Parnami’s house has also been turned into a fortress, with a temporary police outpost set up near his house.
 
 Commando units, snipers and additional police personnel are guarding his house. All family members of Parnami are being given additional security cover. CCTVs have also been set up to keep a close vigil.
 
 ATS officials confirmed that they are tracing the caller who sent the extortion message to Parnami. The MLAs in Uttar Pradesh have also reportedly complained of similar threatening messages.
 
 The intelligence wing of Rajasthan police is also collecting information about the caller, and assessing the threat level. “It is a handiwork of some miscreants, I have reported the matter to the senior police officials,” Parnami said.
 
 “Till we find out if it is a mischief or there is indeed some syndicate behind it, we cannot comment on the nature of threat,” an official said, adding that as the prima facie investigation indicated it was an extortion call made from a foreign number, so the security arrangements were put in place. Several BJP MLAs had received similar threats in 2014 too. 
 
 
