NEW DELHI: The ministry of corporate affairs is considering legal options to try to stall bankruptcy proceedings in the US against diamantaire Nirav Modi’s group firm  , amid stepped up action in the over Rs 13,000 crore scam at PNB, according to officials.

 
 The move comes close on the heels of the   restraining more than 60 entities, including  , Mehul Choksi, various individuals, companies and limited liability partnership (LLP) firms, from selling their assets.
 
 A multi-agency probe, including by the Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO), is progressing into the scam, whose kingpin is alleged to be Nirav Modi. The fraud was perpetrated by way of issuance of fraudulent Letters of Undertaking (LoUs).
 
 According to officials,   Diamond that filed for bankruptcy in a US court is a subsidiary of one of the companies against which the NCLT has passed the order.
 
 Since there is a strong possibility of fund diversion among various group entities, money could well have been diverted to Firestar Diamond, they added.
 
 Against this backdrop, the ministry is exploring legal options with regard to the bankruptcy case of Firestar Diamond and the process of engaging lawyers is being looked at, officials said. They said the effort would be to stall the bankruptcy proceedings so that the company’s assets are not liquidated before completion of the probe.
 
 Meanwhile, sources said PNB is looking to be part of the bankruptcy proceedings against the firm in the US as a claimant. Earlier this month, a US court passed an interim order that prevents creditors from collecting debt from Nirav Modi-owned Firestar Diamond after it filed for bankruptcy. Modi has a majority stake in Firestar Diamond and its other sister companies through his other firms.
 
 The NCLT order, dated February 23, was passed against 64 entities that includes Nirav  , Mehul Choksi, few individuals related to PNB, various companies and LLPs.  , Gilli India, Nakshatra Brands and Firestar Diamond are among the companies while partnership firms include Solar Exports and Stellar Diamond. The SFIO, which comes under the MCA, is probing 107 companies and seven LLPs linked to Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi groups with regard to the scam. 
 
