NAGPUR: The research centre (RC) at the Dr GM Taori Central India Institute of Medical Sciences (CIIMS) has initiated a study on incidence of antibiotic resistant diarrhoea. 

 The project, apparently the first of its kind in the country, is being done in collaboration with the  , UK, which is funding the research. Another partner in the study is the MAHAN trust of Melghat run by Dr  .
 
 RC director   told TOI that it is the first study of this kind in the country. Clostridium difficile (CD), a type of bacterium, is the leading cause of antibiotic associated diarrhoea worldwide, in both hospitalized as well as community patients. 
 
 “Generally, when antibiotics are given to a patient over a period, it affects even the friendly gut flora (organism which helps in digestion). Since the antibiotics cannot distinguish between the good and the pathogens, it kills them together, said Kashyap.
 
 “This disturbs the functioning of the gut flora and allows the growth of harmful bacteria like the Clostridium difficile, which causes diarrhoea, which can be fatal if left untreated,” explained Kashyap.
 
  There is little awareness whether it is just CD or other strains of Clostridium which cause antibiotic associated diarrhoea. The CIIMS study aims to identify the effect of the organism in not just the urban population, where it is expected to be more, but also see its incidence in rural as well as tribal populations.
 
 CIIMS, otherwise, has been working in tribal population in Melghat for other projects and hence is being involved in this project too. 
 
 “We plan to generate a baseline data to help physicians and paediatricians handle the use of antibiotics better and more judiciously. We will also be using whole genome sequencing to study the genetic changes in the micro-flora of the gut,” said Kashyap.
 
 The study will involve study of stool samples of patients by identifying the levels and effect of glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH), an enzyme. A simple kit will be used to identify the enzyme. “Current antibiotics, while successful in treating initial infection, are less effective in preventing recurrence and management of severe CD Infection. Treatment of CDI is complicated by the fact that antimicrobial resistant CD isolates are increasing, and most of them are currently multi-drug resistant,” explained Kashyap.
 
 Tanya Monagham and   from the University of Nottingham are collaborating in the project. They signed the project about six months back with CIIMS research lab.
 
 
