The third day of the auspicious nine days of   will be observed on 20
  March. This day is worshipped by the name of Chandraghanta and devotees worship the specific form of Goddess Durga with great dedication and devotion. According to Hindu mythology, Devi Chandraghanta is the Goddess of spirituality and internal strength. It is also believed that people who experience too many obstacles in life and has enemies should worship Devi Chandraghanta.

 
 
 
 The married form of Goddess Parvati is worshipped in the form of Chandraghanta. After marriage, Lord Shiva adorned Goddess Parvati with a Chandra which was made from chandan and thus, she is known as Chandraghanta. Goddess Chandraghanta wears orange but her devotees prefer to wear white or orange colour.
 
  
  
 
 
 It is believed that Devi Chandraghanta has golden complexion, has ten arms and three eyes. She has Lord Shiva’s crescent moon on her forehead and wears a garland of bells which terrifies demons. She rides a tiger and protects her devotees.
 
 
 
 
 
 Atma Pooja: Puja is done for self-purification
 
 Tilak and Aachman: Put tilak on the forehead and drink holy water from palms.
 
 Sankalpa: Taking water in hand and making a wish in front of the Goddess.
 
 Aavahana and Aasan: Offer flowers
 
 Paadhya: Offer water to Devi’s charan.
 
 Aachman: Offer kapoor (camphor) mixed water.
 
 DugdhaSnan: Offer cow milk for bathing
 
 Ghrita and Madhusnan: Offer ghee and honey for bathing
 
 Sharkara and Panchamritsnan: Offer sugar and the panchaamrita bathing.
 
 Vastra: Offer sari or cloth to wear.
 
 Chandan: Put Sandalwood tilak on the deity.
 
 Kumkum, Kajal, Druvapatra and Bilwapatra: Dhoopa and Deepam Prasad
 
  
  
 
 
 Om Aim HreemChandraghantayNamah ||
 
 Om Devi ChandraghantayayiNamah(108 times)
 
 PindajPravaarudhchandkopastrkairyuta |
 
 PrasadamTanuteMadhyamChandraghantetivishrutaa ||
 
 Om Hreem Shri Chandra Ghanta Durgaaye Namaha
 
 Om Devi Chandraghantayayi Namah
 
 Pindaj Pravaarudh chandkopastrkairyuta | Prasadam Tanute Madhyam Chandraghanteti vishrutaa ||
 
 ॐ ह्रीम श्री चंद्र घंटे दुर्गायै नमः |
 
 ॐ देवी चंद्रघंटयई नमः |
 
 पिंडज प्रव्रुद्ध चण्डकोपास्त्रकैर्युता |
 
 प्रसादं तनुते माध्यम चन्द्रघण्टेति विश्रुता ||
 
  
  
 
 
 नवरात्रि के तीसरे दिन चंद्रघंटा का ध्यान।
 
 मस्तक पर है अर्ध चन्द्र, मंद मंद मुस्कान॥
 
 दस हाथों में अस्त्र शस्त्र रखे खडग संग बांद।
 
 घंटे के शब्द से हरती दुष्ट के प्राण॥
 
 सिंह वाहिनी दुर्गा का चमके सवर्ण शरीर।
 
 करती विपदा शान्ति हरे भक्त की पीर॥
 
 मधुर वाणी को बोल कर सब को देती ग्यान।
 
 जितने देवी देवता सभी करें सम्मान॥
 
 अपने शांत सवभाव से सबका करती ध्यान।
 
 भव सागर में फसा हूँ मैं, करो मेरा कल्याण॥
 
 नवरात्रों की माँ, कृपा कर दो माँ।
 
 जय माँ चंद्रघंटा, जय माँ चंद्रघंटा॥
 
 
 
 
 पिण्डजप्रवरारुढा चण्डकोपास्त्रकैर्युता।
 
 प्रसादं तनुते मह्यां चन्द्रघण्टेति विश्रुता॥
 
 
