LUCKNOW: The birth anniversary of Dalit icon   is all set to be celebrated on a grand scale across the state on April 14 in a politically charged environment, with all political parties having set their eyes on Dalit vote bank ahead of 2019 elections. 

 Not just BSP and BJP, but even   has planned elaborate celebrations this year to mark the icon's 127th birth anniversary. BJP will celebrate the day as 'Samrasta Diwas' (Social Harmony Day) with party workers organising functions in all district headquarters. 
 
 The celebrations will be held along with a programme highlighting the implementation of NDA government's scheme of providing electricity connections to rural households, especially those living in Dalit-dominated areas. Samajwadi Party, on the other hand, has sent out a circular to all district and city presidents to hold functions at the party office or public place. It will perhaps be the first time when a conscious effort is being made by Samajwadi Party to ensure celebrations on Ambedkar Jayanti on a large scale.
 
 SP national president Akhilesh Yadav will preside over the function at the party's state headquarters in Lucknow and will pay floral tributes to the architect of Indian Constitution and later address party workers on Ambedkar's contribution towards a society where every Indian was treated as an equal.
 
 "We celebrate Baba Saheb's birth anniversary every year in line with similar celebrations related to other great personalities like Mahatma Gandhi, Ram Manohar Lohia, Janeshwar Misra and others," said SP MLC   adding that the party always respected the contribution of personalities who have worked for uplift of the downtrodden.
 
 "Even today, our party chief presided over a function on the birth anniversary of   and   at party office," he said. 
 
 He admitted that Ambedkar Jayanti celebrations are expected to be on a grand scale this year as party workers are excited over the coming together of SP and BSP for 2019 Lok Sabha polls.
 
 BSP, meanwhile, said that it would not like to politicize the event in light of various political developments taking place across the country in the past month. "We will celebrate exactly how we have been celebrating in past. Programmes will be organized at division level where floral tributes will be paid to Ambedkar and cultural programmes will be held," said a BSP MLA.
 
 
