CHNADIGARH: Dwelling in the spirit of womanhood, the students and teachers of Post Graduate Government College, Sector 42, Post Graduate Government College, Sector 11 along with Centre for Social Work, Department of   Studies, Panjab University (PU) and  , on Wednesday, held the sixth annual ‘Chandigarh Rising’, part of the global movement titled ‘One Billion Rising’ or OBR to mark protest and express solidarity against all forms of violence against women. 

 The event is held in association with  , a non-governmental organisation working for women rights.
 
 The movement was started by   playright  , who is also the writer of the famous play ‘Vagina Monologues’. After over a hundred and eighty five countries started the movement with almost a hundred colleges celebrating it in India, PGGC-42 became the 101th women’s institute to express solidarity for the said cause.
 
 The event comprised varied performances like flashmobs, skits and song recitals, which were re-worded and re-scripted by the students of the college themselves to omit the sexist connotations, imagery embedded in popular Indian music. “We have seen numerous songs in popular culture these days, which objectify women and have sexist lyrics like Kala Chashma, Kaali-Peeli, Ooh Lala among others. Hence as many as ten such songs have been chosen by the students of the college. They have re-written the lyrics for the same in a gender sensitive perspective,” said professor Jyoti Seth, coordinator for the event.
 
 Keeping up with the spirit of ‘OBR’, the celebrations began with a recital of ‘Apni rah chunni hai mujhe-main kabil hoon, maahir hoon, buland hain irade mere’ followed by a  . The celebrations further propelled with a presentation of a skit titled ‘Main Aaj Ki Ladki, by the students of PGGC-42 elaborating upon the woman of today, their right to safety in public spaces and their right to freedom.
 
 The Syayum team of the Chandigarh Police, then, gave an exceptional demonstration on self defence techniques. DSP Anjeetha, who was the chief guest, addressed the students and emphasised upon the inherent strength of girls and the need to recognise and harness this strength, which would bring ‘more confidence’ in them.
 
 
