Coimbatore: The online application registration for Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions (TNEA) began on Thursday. Around 165 students visited the three TNEA facilitation centres (TFCs) in the city –  ,   and   regional campus - to register their applications.

 As the engineering counselling would go completely online from this year, TFCs have been set up to help the students, who do not have internet facility at their houses, take part in the process. K Karthik Kumar, a student who visited the centre at the Government Institute of Technology to register his application, said, “Overall, the online registration process was easy. It just took half-an-hour. I had a few confusions regarding the counselling process, which I got clarified.”
 
 While students like Karthik visited the centres as they had no internet facility at home, several other students, who have internet facility at home, also visited the centres as they thought the volunteers there would help them and make the process easy. V Priya is an example. “I came to the centre as I thought the volunteers will help me in the process,” she said.
 
 The students were allowed to bring along one parent or guardian to the centres. They were given a model form to fill in first to avoid any error. Later, they were made to fill the online application with the help of a volunteer. The online applications were then printed and handed over to the students.
 
 R Mahalakshmi, first year MTech student of the Government Institute of Technology, who was a volunteer, said the students mainly had doubts about nativity, special reservation and the counselling process. She said the volunteers were given a two-day training to guide the students.
 
 At the Coimbatore Institute of Technology, volunteers said students from Erode and   had also come for registration. By Thursday evening, 67 students had registered at the Government Institute of Technology, 72 at the Coimbatore Institute of Technology and 25 students at the Anna University regional campus. The registration process would go on till May 30.
 
 
