Former India international Kris Srikkanth heaped praise on the India’s wrist-spinning duo of   and   saying that when on song, the duo has the ability to take the wicket out of the equation, and that might prompt Indian captain Virat Kohli to play both of them in the ODI series opener against   at Kingsmead, Durban today. 

 
 Writing in his column in TOI, Srikkanth opined that with South Africa producing some of the best batting tracks for ODI, Kohli would be tempted to play both spinners and it will be interesting see how they fare against a strong batting unit. “Usually, South Africa produce some of the best batting tracks for One-dayers. So Kohli could well be tempted to play both his wrist spinners. The young duo does take the wicket out of the equation. Kuldeep and Chahal could be a touch expensive, but in the limited chances that they have got, they have provided regular breakthroughs. It will be interesting to see how they stand to the pressure of bowling to an attacking set of batsmen.”
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 As per Srikkanth, the ODIs will be much more exciting and it is tough to pick a favourite between the two sides. “Thanks to the fantastic win in the third Test, India will go into the limited overs leg of the series with renewed vigour,” wrote Srikkanth, adding, “It goes without saying that the format is different and the teams also have a new look to it, but the Indian think tank now knows what it takes to put it past South Africa. In my opinion, the One-Dayers will be even more exciting and not much to pick between the two sides.”
 
 
 
 Ab de Villiers has been ruled out of the first three ODIs against India with a finger injury and the former India captain felt that de Villiers’ absence will boost India in the first three ODIs. “The absence of AB de Villiers will definitely work in India’s favour,” he said. “One look at his numbers at home in the shorter formats, will give a fair idea of how destructive he can be. AB has this special ability of turning a game around in a matter of few overs. Luckily, the Indian bowlers don’t have to worry about that for the first three games.”
 
 Writing about the Indian team, Srikkanth said that India’s top-order looks settled and with an overall balanced side, this series could provide details on where Kohli and his boys stand in ODI cricket.
 
 “The Indian top and middle-order looks settled. The start, as in any series, will be crucial. Having a cracking pair in Rohit Sharma and Shikar Dhawan would surely help. If they can negate the first eight to nine overs, then Kohli and the others can take over from there.
 
 “India look a balanced side. In Bumrah and Buvi, they have the best death-overs bowling pair. South Africa, at home, are one of the toughest sides to beat, especially in a bilateral contest. Fielding is another area, where the hosts will have an edge, but it is also a department where India too have made some rapid strides in the last few seasons. In more ways than one, this six-match series will provide details on where Kohli and his boys stand in ODI cricket,” added Srikkanth. 
 
 
