CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government has told the Punjab and Haryana high court that it has removed all the signage/advertisements of liquor vends on   in the state after taking action against liquor vends. It also claimed that at present there is no violation of state's excise policy in the state. 

 Excise and taxation (excise) collector-cum-additional commissioner   provided this information to the high court on Wednesday. The reply from the state has come in the wake of a petition seeking directions for immediate removal of liquor vends/shops where liquor is being served/sold/supplied within 500 meters of the national and state highways.
 
 The petition, filed by a local NGO, Arrive Safe, through its president  , has sought removal of all kinds of advertisements/ hoardings/signs/signage/decorative lights which are still displayed and not to issue licenses for sale/service of liquor within 500 m of national and state highways in contravention to the judgments passed by  .
 
 Responding the petition, the state government has submitted that liquor vends situated at NH 44 (old NH-1) near Ambala were checked on November 25, 2017 and December 7, 2017 and display of advertisement was found inside a vend.
 
 "The liquor vend was challaned and display board found inside (the vend) removed. Reports sought from deputy excise and taxation commissioners (excise) of all the districts have revealed that no violation regarding advertisements/hoardings/signage being displayed was found at any of the liquor vends or bars and if there was any, the same has been removed," the state has mentioned in its reply.
 
 The government has also assured that as and when any violation of provisions of Haryana Excise Policy 2017-18 is reported or found, immediate action is taken by the authorities concerned.
 
 The petitioner had submitted that on December 15, 2016, while disposing of a bunch of petitions, the SC had directed that the states and union territories shall desist from granting licences for liquor sale along national and state highways. It also ordered that all signages and advertisements of the availability of liquor be prohibited and existing ones removed forthwith. According to the petitioner, the purpose behind SC directions was to exterminate the bane of drunk driving from the highways.
 
 In November 2017, the high court had issued a notice to the state governments of Haryana, Punjab and the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) on a plea seeking directions for immediate removal of liquor vends/shops where liquor is being served/ sold/ supplied within 500 meters of the national and state highways. 
 
