HYDERABAD: About one   appeared for the written format of Joint Entrance Examination-Main (JEEMain) 2018 across 116 test centres in the state on Sunday.

 Students and experts said in terms of difficulty this year paper was in line with previous years papers. However, they said there were a few ambiguous questions in physics and chemistry.
 
  
  
 
 “Although maths paper was lengthy, it was very easy. Chemistry, which is easy each year, was tough this time as questions were picked from a chapter which does not have much weightage. Physics, as usual, was the toughest for me,” said Anand M, who appeared for the test today.
 
 Another student Sadhana D said “I am sure that I would qualify for  , which will be held in May. Many questions, especially from physics and maths are from previous question papers.
 
 ”Experts said that physics was the toughest paper amongst the three, followed by, chemistry and maths.
 
 “Physics was the toughest paper amongst the three. The questions were a mix of theory-based and calculative. There were 17 questions asked from the 12th   and 13 questions from the 11th standard syllabus. It had 4 difficult questions, 20 moderate questions, and 6 easy questions. Initial assessment suspects none of the options of question 6 set B were correct. This was the question based on Pulley where minimum mass was required,” said Rajshekhar Ratrey, VP educational content, Toppr.com adding that maths was the easiest and most questions were calculative.
 
 In the math section, 10 questions were asked from 12th standard syllabus and 20 questions were from 11th standard syllabus. The section had 3 difficult questions, 14 moderate and 13 easy question, he said.
 
 He further added “When it comes to chemistry, the questions were a mix of theory and calculations, which ensured that students saved time for the other sections. This section had 3 difficult questions, 17 moderate questions, and 10 easy questions. Initial assessment suspect students may find 2 options of question 63 set B could be correct, however, wethink the answer should be option 1. This was a question from alcohol phenol and ether, on a reaction of phenol.”
 
 While the candidates, who choose to appear for   gave their exam on Sunday, the JEE Mains online mode will be conducted on April 15 and
 
 16. Out of these candidates, only about 2.2 lakh candidates would be short-listed to appear in the JEE Advanced 2018, giving them a chance to compete for just about 10,000 seats in the various Indian   (IITs).
 
 
