CHENNAI: The government has flouted norms while floating tenders for supply of chassis for 2,000 new buses for the eight state transport corporations at an estimated Rs 300 crore, a leading automobile manufacturer has complained. 

 Though it is mandatory to invite all companies participating in the tender process while opening bids, this was not done and details of the selection were not shared, it wrote to the state  , alleging a gross violation of the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders Act, 1998.
 
 The tender specifications were biased towards one supplier leaving no scope for others to even participate and no pre-bid meeting was conducted, said the letter accessed by TOI.
 
 Normally, for all government projects including those involving transport undertakings, interested bidders get a chance to clarify doubts over bidding documents and scope of work during pre-bid meetings. 
 
 R Ananda Padmanaban, director of government-run Chennai-based Institute of Road Transport that was the nodal agency, said pre-bid meetings are conducted only when new projects are launched and purchasing chassis for buses is done annually as per requirement.
 
 Admitting that the manufacturer in question was not kept in the loop when the bid was opened and results announced, Padmanaban said the firm did not meet the technical requirements. But, he did not furnish details of the other bidders invited for the opening. 
 
 On its part, the firm in question said that with more than 300 authorised dealers and services centres, it had an established presence and supplied more than 6,000 buses to transport corporations across 15 states in the last few years. 
 
 October 20, 2017 was the deadline for submitting the final tender. Two new conditions only 10 % of the tendered quantity shall be awarded to new tenderer (who has not supplied chassis for  ) and a technical committee will have the final say on the required wheelbase depending on the geographical operation nature were added 10 days before expiry of the deadline through a corrigendum despite opposition from many interested bidders, sources told TOI.
 
 No other state discriminates among manufacturers on supply quantity and its requests were within the Central Motor Vehicle Regulations, the firm said, demanding re-tendering and highest standards of fairness and transparency.
 
 In response, Padmanaban said 10 buses would be put on the road on a trial basis and orders for the rest would be scrapped if found unsatisfactory. “This was mentioned in the corrigendum released on October 20, 2017,” he said. 
 
 
