Why are the most successful people in the world also the most stressed? The reason, said  , is because we want to expand without limits, but without enhancing ourselves. “Do you think you can win a Formula One race driving a city car loaded like a truck with all your shopping? No way! You will have to upgrade your machine if you are looking to win on that track. Similarly, you need to focus on enhancing your life, your body mechanism, if you wish to succeed in any activity — be it business or political,” he said.

 Speaking on ‘Guts, Gumption and Growth while doing Business’, the founder of   said growth is intrinsic to human nature. But it is largely understood to mean ‘accumulation’. When somebody accumulates a lot of money, he feels like a big man, but this “bigness” is only when everybody else is poorer than him. “This is not growth, this is sickness. If we have guts and gumption, we have to look at growth in a multi-dimensional way. When growth is not linked to what you accumulate, it becomes sustainable,” he said.
 
 Without producing great human beings we are not going to produce a great nation and enhancing the human being has been our USP, said Sadhguru.
 
 The wellbeing of a nation does not depend on its military or political success, but the success of its business, he added. “This is something we understood for centuries, which is why we were once the most commercially active nation in the world.”
 
 He listed three things that are important for the making of a nation or a business — territory or area of operation, the system that manages the nation or business, and third, the people.
 
 There is enough scientific evidence to prove that when people feel fantastic, they naturally do wonderful things. “One way of keeping the body mechanism in the best shape is if your mind and body take instructions from you, because then you will always choose to be blissful, and not miserable,” he said.
 
 Growth also involves risk taking, and it is important not to be gripped by anxiety or fear. “You will do fine if you just ensure what happens within you, happens your way. This is the best state to be in,” he said.
 
 Our success depends on how well we harness our body and our brain, said Sadhguru, and advised that just as we invest in the outer world for dividends, we need to invest in the inner world too.
 
