In the latest episode of   Ka Ooltah Chashmah, everyone goes to Mehta's house to think a way out and convince Bapu Ji not to adopt Pinku.   then calls   to know his opinion. Pinku is seen with Tapu and he is happy about Bapu Ji's decision.

 After the call, Jethalal is seen stressed and gets into a tiff with Popatlal. Mehta intervenes in their fight. Jetha and Taarak try to come up with an idea that would stop Bapu Ji from doing what he wants. All sorts of suggestions are made but none of them are conclusive. Mehta then suggests they get a lawyer, who they can manipulate according to their will.
 
 Meanwhile, Bapuji meets a lawyer, who happens to be Dr. Hathi's friend. The former seeks his help and tells him Pinku's story. 
 
 Bapu Ji then makes the lawyer meet Gokuldham society members. The lawyer asks him if there is enough evidence to support Bapuji. He looks at the Gokuldham society members, who reluctantly agree with him. When Babita asks Bapuji to reconsider his decision, the lawyer instead tells them to support Bapu Ji in his brave endeavor. 
 
 After the lawyer leaves, Bapuji asks everyone to assemble in the society compound at 11. Jethalal leaves with the rest of the society members. He talks to Mehta about the doubts and confusion in his mind. 
 
 Mehta tries to calm down Jethalal but also tells him they can’t do anything as it is Bapu Ji’s decision. Babita Ji instead tells Jethalal that they will try and find a way to overcome the situation. Jetha goes with Anjali Bhabhi and Mehta to their house to think of a solution. He doesn’t want Bapu Ji to adopt Pinku.
 
 Anjali Bhabhi gets soup for Jethalal so that he is able to think better but he doesn’t like it. He thinks of an excuse to stop her from serving him more. When he is about to leave, Bapu Ji enters and informs that he has completed all the formalities and needs only a copy of his Aadhar card. Jethalal tells him that he cannot adopt Pinku tom as there is a ‘yamkaal’ tomorrow that is inauspicious. He was informed about it by Daya bhabhi.
 
 Bapu ji tells Jetha that he had met Daya a few minutes ago. She was instead supporting him and did not mention anything of that sort. Bapu Ji catches his lie and asks him to go and get the work done. 
 
