KOLKATA: The state government has approached the airport authorities for a ‘No Objection’ certificate to allow them break a portion of the perimeter wall near Gate 2.5 to churn out a road and expand a portion of  .

  
 The PWD had submitted a blueprint of the plan to the airport authorities in a joint meeting at the police divisional commissioner’s office when the AAI had verbally agreed to the arrangement. “On Monday, they have placed the final documents and have sought for an  . We will go through the documents and decide on the course of proceedings shortly,” a senior airport official told TOI.
 
 As per the plan, the existing opening from Gate 2.5, which now serves as a two-way road connecting VIP Road to Jessore Road plying through the airport premises, will become a one-way stretch where small vehicles can take a left turn from Jessore Road and head to airport or VIP Road. The new portion of the road that would come up after breaking the wall will be a one-way drive for small vehicles from VIP Road to Jessore Road.
 
 With the new road bringing in a heavy influx of traffic on the Jessore Road, the state government has plans to expand the existing road by breaking portions of footpath and shifting it deep inside the existing area between the footpath and the roadside shops and buildings on the Birati bound flank.
 
 “The pavement here is situated in the middle of the road, between the main carriageway and some grass patch that has been encroached illegally. We will remove illegal encroachments from these patches as well as the pavements and will shift the pavement itself. The expanded portion will be wide enough to accommodate at least a bus, turning the flank into a three-lane road,” said the official.
 
 In the Dum Dum-bound flank, the road will be expanded by removing a roadside garden maintained by   and shifting the pavement close to the boundary wall of the airport premises.
 
 “At present, when vehicles leave the airport premises and hit Jessore Road, it creates a traffic mess, forcing Dum Dum and Birati-bound vehicles remain stuck before traffic signals for anything between two to five minutes during morning and evening peak hours. This arrangement is likely to bring down the waiting time,” said  , the joint commissioner (airport) of   Police.
 
 Along with the road expansion, PWD would also install iron rails on median dividers to prevent jaywalking, bar movement of slow vehicles like rickshaws from the road, deploy more policemen to prevent driving against traffic and illegal Uturns and install more streetlights.
 
