HYDERABAD: Poaching of   in the   in and around Medak and   is still continuing unabated. In what has sent alarm bells ringing among the forest officers, the recent six-day survey covering tiger census and other wild life by volunteers and officers have found traps, snare and electric wiring near water bodies in the Pocharam wildlife sanctuary.

 These traps and snares have been seized by the forest department who have now launched investigation into the continuing menace of poaching. Though local villagers are suspected to have placed snares to trap wild animals including deers, sambars and wild boars which are in sizeable numbers in these forest areas, forest officers are not ruling out the possibility of inter-State poachers involvement with the help of local villagers.
 
 Telangana Principal chief conservator of forests PK Jha told TOI that traps, snare and electric wiring were found during the survey. “Yes, poaching is being suspected to be continuing in the forest area. We are going to increase the inspections and also adopt a strategy to effectively check the poachers,” he said.
 
  
 Though the survey brought good news of an increase in animals populations, the traps recovered from the jungles have come as a major worry to officers.
 
 “Yes, the tigers were spotted by volunteers during the survey at four times at four different places in the wildlife sanctuaries. Sambars too have been spotted. Going by the droppings of herbivorous and  ,   and other indications, there is definitely an increase in the wildlife population including tigers but it would take about six months to scientifically prove the same,” Jha said.
 
 Presently there are large number of vacancies at field level and sufficient personnel are not available to conduct this huge exercise in all the Forest areas of the state. To augment the numbers, the   took the help of NGOs, wildlife enthusiasts, student community and local youth in pooling up the required personnel for conducting the Tiger estimation work.
 
 Volunteers comprised scientists from research and development of various organizations like Indian Immunological Institute, ICRISAT, GSK R&D, mechanical engineers,engineering students, forestry students, software professionals, employees of HSBC, NOVARTIS, Genpact, IIL, ACCENTURE, BSNL, NASSCOM, members from Friends of Snake Society, WWF India, Bird Watcher Society, Hyderabad Tiger Conservation Society, Humane Society International, People for Animals, chartered accountants, medical doctors, bankers, financial consultants, tourism dept., IT professionals, house wives, and include a retired director general from GSI, and a retired manager from ITC.
 
  Some volunteers have travelled to Hyderabad from outside the state from places like Bengaluru, Chennai, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, and even include NRIs on vacation.
 
