CHENNAI: At least 67 unused answer sheets meant for the Group-I examinations went missing from the   office premises, helping the recruitment process to be rigged, officials with the state public service commission have revealed.

 
 The central crime branch (CCB) police have already arrested four TNPSC officials and one of them,  , stated during questioning that he was an ex-student of Apollo Study Centre which has come under the scanner because 62 of the 74 candidates selected are from the institute. An investigation officer said   had spilled the beans about others involved in the racket who are yet to be named in the FIR. Apart from the four TNPSC officials, police have also arrested a candidate Ramkumar, his friend  , both hailing from Madurai, and a broker Paulraj.
 
  
  
 
 The XV additional sessions judge (vacation judge), S Purushothaman, had granted anticipatory bail to Apollo Study Centre director   on May 16 and directed him not to leave the country without the prior permission of the court. A senior police officer said, “We may get more information after questioning Rajeshwaran.” Police will soon approach the court to cancel his bail plea as they believe he performed a key role in the scam.
 
 Investigation officers had already collected the mobile call list of   and the arrested TNPSC officials. “We can conclude based on the call list that Rajeshwaran was in touch with TNPSC officials on a regular basis. He was also in touch with experts who prepared question papers for the examination held last year,” said the officer. Preliminary investigations had confirmed several irregularities as some answer sheets were also altered post-examination before being sent for evaluation.
 
 The investigation was shifted from the forgery wing of the CCB to the investigations unit of crime against women (IUCAW) wing. The additional deputy commissioner of police V Shyamala Devi, who was promoted as deputy commissioner of police, has been assigned as a special officer to probe the case.
 
 
