BANGALURU: The fourth additional chief metropolitan magistrate court on Wednesday extended the police custody of four wealth managers arrested in the nearly Rs 400-crore   fraud till Saturday.

 The Banashankari police produced the four accused -- former sports journalist   and fellow insurance agents Narasimha Murthy, Prahalada and KC Nagaraj – before the magistrate and sought extension of custody on the grounds that the scam was serious and there were hundreds of people had been cheated. The scam’s mastermind   will also be in police custody till Saturday.
 
  
 Meanwhile, the number of complaints received swelled to around 350 in different police stations across the city. “Banashankari police station received 275 complaints and more people are visiting neighbouring police stations such as Jayanagar and J P Nagar, alleging that they have lost lakhs of rupees invested in the firm,” a police officer said. Complainants include the city’s top cardiologists and gynaecologists along with sports personalities and prominent businessmen.
 
 Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) S D Sharanappa said: “The passports of all accused persons have been seized. During investigation, we found that the main accused had travelled multiple times to several foreign countries.” Police seized the laptop of the accused and are tracking where the money collected from people was moved to. Police have also intensified the search for Srinath’s wife Sunitha Achar, a director in the firm.
 
 A senior police officer said: “The majority of people had been coaxed by friends and family members to invest in the firm. The wealth managers, who were also insurance agents, played an important role in netting high-profile investors. Shockingly, of the nearly 1,800 persons who were cheated, only around 50 had met Srinath in person. The rest were swayed by the smooth talk of the wealth managers and did not bother to check the credentials of the company before investing. Hundreds of people reinvested their initial returns which went up to 40 per cent annum.”
 
 
 
 Preliminary investigation revealed that some wealth managers had travelled to the US and Gulf countries, including Dubai, to woo rich Kannadigas to invest in the firm. One of the accused is said to have travelled to the US eight times in the past 3-4 years. A police officer said: “We’re not sure how many non-resident Kannadigas (NRKs) have invested in the firm.”
 
 
