CHANDIGARH: A district consumer disputes redressal forum has directed a real estate company -- Emerging Valley, Chandigarh -- to pay Rs 50,000 as compensation to a resident of Shimla for failing to give possession of his flats. It was stated by the consumer that the company had advertised their project – Trinity Homes -- before taking permissions and thereafter failed to deliver flats.

 Taking cognizance of the matter the bench of the court held that if bookings were made and the booking amount was collected before obtaining necessary sanctions/approvals, permissions and licences, it amounts to indulgence into unfair trade practice.
 
 In his complaint, Paras Sood of Shimla stated that he applied for two flats for which booking amount of Rs 1 lakh was made to the realtor on April 17, 2013. He stated the developer company made an offer that if he deposited Rs 13.80 lakh, the cost of the flat, in advance, then he was entitled to receiving guaranteed return of Rs 11,000 every month till the date of possession. Sood was also issued provisional allotment letters on April 25, 2013 and May 23, 2013. Subsequently, he deposited full and final amount of Rs 13.80 lakh towards one flat and Rs 6.60 lakh towards the other as per the plan.
 
 According to the complainant, he had paid full and final payment for one flat and was paying installments for the other. The consumer was taken aback when the guaranteed returns were not paid after 11 months.
 
 “I then approached the realtor, who assured me that the amount would be adjusted in the installments of my other flat. In June 2015, I visited the site and got the shock of my life as the construction work had not even started there,” the complainant said. Following the episode, Sood took the matter to the forum.
 
 In its arguments, the real estate company objected that the consumer forum had no territorial jurisdiction as the flats in question were situated in  .
 
 It was admitted that the complainant had deposited full and final cost of Rs13.80 lakh towards one flat. It was also stated that the realtor had already applied for licence and necessary approvals/sanctions after depositing the requisite fee. The company stated that the construction was at its full swing and the complainant was made aware about the progress of the construction from time to time.
 
 After after hearing both sides, the forum observed, “It can safely be concluded that the realtor, while advertising and offering the proposed project to the prospective buyers, including the complainant, did not have requisite permissions under the PAPR (Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation) Act, 1995. The company had defaulted in terms of the provisions of the PAPR Act, 1995 and is deficient in rendering proper services to the complainant.”
 
 The forum then directed the realtor to pay an amount of Rs 50,000 and Rs 10,000 as litigation expenses. The forum further directed the firm to refund Rs 13.80 lakh deposited by him with 7% interest per annum from the date of receipt.
 
 
