MUMBAI: City   chief   on Friday accused ruling partner Shiv   of creating hurdles in the coastal road scheme by objecting to the appointment of the project management consultant (PMC), triggering a war of words.

 “Why are they (Sena) opposing PMC for the project? Are they opposing the project? They should announce their stand,” Shelar said in a press release.
 
 The Sena was quick to react.   corporator and standing committee chairman Yashwant Jadhav said the BJP needs to focus on the promises made to the public instead of bothering about the coastal road, which, he claimed, is the Sena’s pet project. “Coastal road is our dream project. Incomplete PMC proposal was tabled before and it was technically wrong, so we kept it on hold for some clarification."
 
 The tussle began on Wednesday, when the proposal for a PMC came up before the standing committee. The administration said it was submitted on March 9 and the panel had failed to take any decision within the stipulated 30 days. Hence, it is deemed to have been cleared.
 
 Jadhav objected, asked for the proposal to be cancelled. The administration insisted it is not legally possible because 30 days have passed. But the Sena members supported and cleared Jadhav’s proposal while the BJP members opposed it.
 
 The wrangling comes when the coastal road work is expected to start in couple of months. On March 9, a proposal to appoint two PMCs by spending Rs 120 crore was submitted to the municipal secretary, who works under the standing committee chief. He failed to present it at the panel meeting on March 14, mandatory under the rule, but did so on March 21. The civic administration says according to rule, the mandatory 30-day period (for the proposal to be deemed passed) need to be counted from March 14. But Sena says it should be March 21.
 
 “The law is very clear. If they are unable to take a decision within 30 days, the proposal needs to be deemed as passed. We will inform the general body meeting about it,” said a senior civic official.
 
