HYDERABAD : Ahead of the ensuing gram panchayat, Assembly and Lok Sabha elections, the K Chandrasekhar Rao-led cabinet on Sunday approved the yardstick to determine “local status” in employment and education sectors in the new zonal system in Telangana.

 
 Between class 1and class 7, a child must study for four years in the local area to formally get the   tag. Earlier, local status was determined based on four-year study between class 4 and class 10.
 
 In another significant decision, the Cabinet approved 95% reservation for locals and 5% was left as open category in the zonal system. Earlier, 80% reservation was for locals in district cadre, 70% in zonal and 60% in multi-zones.
 
 This assumes significance as over a lakh government jobs are to be filled up by KCR-government before 2019 polls. The approvals on local status were made by the Cabinet based on the recommendations of the Cabinet sub-committee headed by deputy chief minister Kadiam Srihari.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Telangana NGOs leader Devi Prasad who was a special invitee to the Cabinet meeting hailed the cabinet decision, saying, “justice has been done to the sons of the soil. This new local status formula, new zonal system and 95% reservation for locals are landmark approvals by the KCR-Cabinet. What’s more locals can also compete in the 5% open category too,” he said.
 
 The cabinet resolutions need changes in the Presidential Order to be implemented. The AP government had got local status approved for its residents in 2016 with the approval of the then President Pranab Mukherjee.
 
 In other decisions taken, Cabinet also approved enhancement of retirement age from 58 years to 65 years for health department professors in teaching. It approved proposal to create seven zones and two multi-zones and also ₹5 lakh insurance cover for farmers between 18 and 60 years. The insurance scheme will be announced on June 2. Cabinet approved staff including MD to State Rythu Samanvaya Samithi by way of redeployment.
 
 
