NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Wednesday questioned AAP MLA   why he should be granted bail when the   is being harassed through notices by assembly committees.

 Jarwal, who is in judicial custody for the alleged assault on Delhi chief secretary  , has sought bail in the high court after his plea was rejected by a sessions court.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 “You cannot harass a complainant like this. By hook or crook, the chief secretary is being harassed. Is it not a ground to reject the bail plea?” Justice Mukta Gupta said after the counsel for the top bureaucrat informed the court that he has been served with a notice by an assembly committee after he lodged an FIR against the MLAs.
 
 Terming the situation as “very unfortunate” where the “state and its officers feel unsafe and are being threatened by each other”, the court reserved the order on the plea of the MLA arrested on February 20 for the alleged assault during a meeting at chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence a day before.
 
 The court also expressed concern at the law and order situation in the city. “At a place where the chief minister is sitting, a person is assaulted. What is the law and order situation? This is happening in front of the chief minister. I am not going on the personality of the person who was assaulted. You need to answer this,” the court told the MLA’s counsel.
 
 Justice Gupta also demanded to know, “How should I be satisfied that no such incident would take place in future?”
 
 During the hearing, senior advocates Rebecca John and Dayan Krishnan, representing Jarwal, sought relief and said their client was ready to abide by any condition imposed by the court. 
 
 Challenging the police version, Jarwal’s counsel maintained that only heated arguments took place between the MLAs and the chief secretary and no assault occurred. But the police in its status report informed the court that as per the medical report, the senior bureaucrat had suffered injuries of simple nature and highlighted that Jarwal had also been booked under non-bailable sections of Indian Penal Code.
 
 Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for the chief secretary, opposed Jarwal’s bail plea, saying the bureaucrat was called in the room consciously because no camera was there and he was made to sit between two persons. Prakash has filed an intervention plea in the bail petition.
 
 The court also issued notice and sought a status report from Delhi Police by March 12 on another bail plea of AAP legislator Amanatullah Khan, who is also in custody in the same case.
 
 
