Mumbai: Israel PM   on Thursday invited some of the top leaders of India Inc to set up research & development (R&D) centres in Israel, just like several of the top global companies have done, and also asked them to encourage innovation. Netanyahu also discussed about the growing partnership between the two countries, expressed his worries about lack of job creation in Israel and also about his impatience with bureaucracy and regulators.

 The Israel PM discussed various issues with  ,  ,  , Ashok Hinduja,  ,  ,  , Ajay Piramal, Atul Punj and Dilip Shanghvi for over a one-and-half hour breakfast meet, sources said. After the meet, Daniel Carmon, ambassador of Israel in New Delhi, tweeted about the Israeli PM’s interaction where Netanyahu spoke about the business scenario in Israel and suggested “they contemplate setting up R&D centres in Israel as so many international players have already done”.
 
 There are over 250 R&D centres in Israel owned by multinational companies — including Microsoft, Google, Amazon, IBM and Cisco. Among the Indian companies, the  ,  , Jain Irrigation, Sun Pharma and Tech Mahindra have R&D centres in the country.
 
 The Israeli PM also asked business leaders to focus on innovation and said that the future belonged to those who innovate. “It is very, very crucial today for you and your Israeli counterparts to meet up, because the future belongs to those who innovate,” Netanyahu told the leaders of India Inc. There were about eight people from Israel and about 10 business heads from India at the meet.
 
 Adi Godrej, chairman, Godrej Group said the Israeli PM spoke about the kind of help Israel could provide to Indian businesses. “We had a general discussion on Indo-Israel cooperation. It was also discussed how such cooperation can be advanced,” Godrej said.
 
 Ajay Piramal, chairman, Piramal Group said the Israeli PM spoke about how both countries should reduce red-tapism and bureaucracy, which slows down economic progress. “Israel has been lowering taxes to improve business sentiment. Also, he (Netanyahu) wants Israel to move up and be in the top 10 countries in the index of ease of doing business,” Piramal said. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, another business leader who attended the meet said that Israeli PM expressed his views about how technology is changing the world and emphasised on the importance of India becoming a global power in a multipolar world.
 
 
