MUMBAI: Three days after the AC   began operations from  , the response is still tepid in the belt north of   because of the schedules and high fares.

 Although the services began from Borivli from December 25, Western Railway decided to have a full-fledged run from Virar from January 1.
 
 When TOI travelled by the train from Virar, there were barely 30 passengers on board, most of whom were in for a joyride.
 
 Virar resident Vidyadhar Rane said, “It is a good train but fares definitely need rationalisation. My wife and I took the train for the first time but we are not sure if we will take it regularly as it may pinch our pockets.”
 
 Another commuter, Tushar Desai, said, “The frequency is a deterrent for many to opt for it regularly. There should be at least one train every hour. I may opt for the train. It would have been better if fares were equivalent to first class fares.”
 
 Vasai resident Prakash Mathurekar said, “The fares should be cheap and there should someone on board to issue tickets. There are chances that one may miss the train after buying a ticket from the booking counter as platforms and FOBs are overcrowded.”
 
 Rakesh Mhatre, another commuter, said, “I usually travel by a cab aggregator to Andheri, which is comfortable but expensive as the fare sometimes touches Rs 2,000. This is the best option for me because of the comfort of AC and speed. Local trains are too crowded.”
 
 International lagori player Mugdha Lele said, “With fares at Rs 190, a family or three to four people will find it expensive.”
 
 A WR officials said, “We hope many people will opt for AC season tickets after their existing first/second class season tickets expire.”
 
 A ticket-checker said, “The response is good from Borivli onwards, but many yell at us for introducing the service at the cost of normal services.”
 
 Bhayander resident and National Rail Users’ Consultative Committee (NRUCC) member Shailesh Goyal said, “The train is not of much use for the Virar-Borivli belt as it halts only at Vasai and Bhayander.”
 
 
