AHMEDABAD/SURAT: Main accused in the rape and murder of a 11-year-old girl in Surat,  , is not confessing to raping the girl but admitted to brutalizing her, said police. “The injury in her private parts could kill a child. However, she died of strangulation,” Satish Sharma, Surat police commissioner, told TOI.

 
 Postmortem report of the girl has revealed 87 injuries on her body including the private parts. The report also mentions dried up tears and mud on the girl’s face.
 
 “Even if rape is not proved in the medical report, the case will be considered as rape as per the law since the victim is a minor,” said Sharma.
 
 Gurjar was arrested from his native Gangapur in Rajasthan’s Sawai Madhopur district on April 20 while his brother Harisinh and two supervisor brothers – Naresh and Amarsinh were detained from Surat. 
 
 According to Ahmedabad crime branch sources, Gurjar’s accomplice in crime, Hari Om, is absconding and a manhunt has been launched to nab him. 
 
 “Since March 20, when the girl's mother was murdered by Gurjar and Hari Om, the minor had been confined in Gurjar’s elder brother's room. She was subjected to extreme sexual torture and beaten several times a day so that she doesn’t open her mouth,” a senior Ahmedabad crime branch official told TOI. 
 
 On April 5 night, the girl started screaming and crying uncontrollably as Gurjar barged into her room. He then gagged her with a piece of cloth. She couldn't speak but tears continuously rolled down are eyes as she made her lie flat on the ground. 
 
 With his bare hands, Gurjar strangled her to death.
 
 Gurjar then dumped her body in the car and threw it in the bushes on Jiav-Budia Road in Pandesara area around midnight. 
 
 After returning home, he calmly put the car keys back and had a glass of water. While drinking water, he threatened Naresh Gurjar, the supervisor working with him, not to reveal anything as he told him about the murder. Naresh had woken up when Gurjar came in and had started asking questions.
 
 Ahmedabad crime branch had cracked the case after detailed scanning of CCTV footage from an under-construction building about a kilometre from the spot where the girl’s body was dumped on April 6.
 
 
