NAGPUR: At a time when Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has taken serious note of absence of rehabilitation provisions for canines serving in the armed forces, plight of another retired sniffer dog of the   (RPF) has come to the fore.

 Eleven-year-old Caesar, a German shepherd, who had played key role in tracing several thieves while working as a detection dog for about 10 years, is now struggling to survive. On Saturday, severely ill Caesar, who retired around a year back, was hospitalized. 
 
 With no post-retirement pension or plans in place to rehabilitate sniffer dogs, Caesar is now left at the mercy of some animal-lovers. When Caesar retired, his handler offered to adopt him. “He took care for a while but the dog’s health started deteriorating soon and the handler could not bear the medical expenses,” said Karishma Galani of the  .
 
 Through the NGO, Caesar was adopted by city hotelier   eight months back. “Initially, I offered to shelter him for a few days but I soon got attached to him and decided to adopt. However, since the beginning, the dog has been unwell. It seems he was not taken care of during his service,” said Ghate, who along with the NGO, is now bearing the medical expenses.
 
 The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court had taken sou motu cognisance of TOI reports of June 22 exposing the absence of measures for rehabilitation of canines serving in the bomb disposal and detection units. While hearing the petition, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Manjula Chellur and Prasanna Varale had directed the   (AWBI) to file an affidavit on steps taken to rehabilitate dogs serving in the bomb disposal and detection units of armed forces, after their retirement.
 
 In the reports, TOI had highlighted that lifespan of sniffer dogs is not more than 12 years after being constantly exposed to hazardous explosives. While they get around Rs10,000 every month for food and other expenses during the service years, no money is allocated to them once they retire. Veterinarian Dr Rajendra Mahajan, who is treating Caesar, said that a monthly pension for retired sniffer dogs is a must. “After serving for 10 years, they are bound to suffer from health ailments. Recently, I treated a sniffer dog which was serving in Pune’s crime branch. Once they retire, they have no one to take care of their medical treatment,” he said.
 
 
