LUCKNOW: On ordinary days,   of Madarsa Darul Uloom Anjuman Islamia, Kushinagar, is a religious leader showing the path of righteousness to the community. However, the elderly, who played an important role in convincing Muslims to let their children take polio drops, has an additional task at hand these days.

 He is preaching against the misconceptions that hold back children from taking timely medical help when the killer encephalitis attacks.
 
 Visiting different localities and villages of Padrauna, he is making people understand that fever with fits was a sign of encephalitis ignoring which will push the child in a death trap.
 
 Akram is one of 5000-odd social influencers forming   (SMN) roped in by the state government to beat acute encephalitis syndrome ( ) in UP.  , which comprises teachers, social workers, religious leaders, local doctors and revered community elderly, is already working to promote routine immunisation in state.
 
 
 
 
 The success of polio eradication in India has established that community can achieve health targets. Using SMN can help in spreading the much-needed awareness to cut the time wasted at the doorsteps of quacks and faith healers, the first choice of parents in the region for encephalitis treatment," said Nizamuddin Ahmed, communication for development officer (Immunization), Unicef, which for the first time has collaborated with UP government to beat encephalitis.
 
 Studies have shown that delay in reaching the medical facility was behind the high AES death rate in UP. One such study conducted by social organisation Path found that 52% parents took children with encephalitis first to a quack or faith healer. A small number of them tried home remedies like warding off the evil eye. The survey also showed that only 17% of children were taken to a government health facility when symptoms show.
 
 Community mobilisation efforts on the other hand in case of Polio eradication campaign have ensured nearly total community ownership of the programme. The success could be gauged from the fact that SMN brought down number of families resisting polio vaccine from 20% in 2001 to less than 1% in 2014. "Valuable time to save the brain damage caused by encephalitis slips out of hand as parents trail the quacks and private doctors before finally reaching the designated medical facility. The wastage either costs the life of the child or survives as life long brain damage or disability," shared Prof Shailly Awasthi, paediatrician with  .
 
 But while these technical jargon makes little sense to poor, barely literate and unexposed villagers, the trust that they have in social influencer like Akram can play a vital role. Talking about his connect with the community, the Maulana puts his duly imparted knowledge to reinforce health messages.
 
