She may play the bold formidable   in the serial Sembaruthi (on Zee Tamil), but  , in real life, is a fun-loving person with an incomparable zest for living. Her career has been a dream run, says this bold actress, who minces no words when it comes to talking about the ‘progress’ our television industry could do with. Here she is, telling us why ‘regressive’ and ‘progressive’ are mere words when it comes to show business, and how our small-screen businesses could do with a bit of structured approach… 

 
 
 Well, it’s not that everything is complicated, but when we do try to represent life, it has own set of complications. Even real-life is sometimes bizarrely complicated, isn’t it? And when it comes to serials, we do exaggerate and present it. That is to show that complications are inherent in any situation in life, and more so in serialised versions because one has to continue with a plot.
 
 
 Yes, I play the role of a woman with principles, someone who is fiercely independent, is headstrong, lives by the roles she is expected to play within the family and in the society… She is also very compassionate, kind, large-hearted, but tolerates no nonsense. She is very careful that no one besmirches her reputation and honour — in a way, she is quite a package. 
 
 
 Yes, she is very dominating, and because of the very principles she leads her life by, one would sense an alienation between her and her own children, and at one point of time, even her husband. She also wears the pants in the house, and she very well recognises that she has to do that. Why would an emancipated woman be ‘given’ any freedom? But then, there are codes of society, caste, culture and tradition — one still lives within all this, and so does she. Akhilandeshwari has immense clarity on where this generation is headed, and whom she is grooming, and for what. For me, it’s a very well-written character — generally these kind of characters become the loud one-dimensional stereotypes on screen — be it in the movies, or the small screen. But happily for me, it isn’t. I am myself fascinated by the character, because somewhere as a woman, it also helps uncover facets to myself I haven’t explored till now. 
 
 
 No, not changed, exactly — at the end of the day, it’s a role. But sometimes, I do get into her mind space, I have insights — they remain in the head. And you admire those qualities she has. At times, it’s very important to stand up for yourself, and what you believe — it’s a critical influence on my way of thinking. I am someone who gives people a long rope — Priya, as a person, trusts people to a point of naivete. But Akhilandeshwari is very canny, and yet, she’s grounded, she’s in there in the moment, very aware… and I am like, ‘Hey, I could use some of that, too…’.
 
 
 Yes, I’ve had some amazingly rare combos when it comes to films — I did Valli with   in an era when he was ruling the roost — that period between the late 80s and the early 90s, you know. I was a teenager and from nowhere I got this title role opposite him. Then with   and Kamal Haasan and then, Mohan Lal — I have been blessed that way. But then, considering today’s milieu, it was not a difficult decision to enter television. Earlier, some 10-12 years ago, TV was a taboo for movie stars. It was said an out-of-work star might as well do a serial to earn something — it was the death knell for his or her acting career. But today, TV has redefined its parameters, and also the audience’s choices. Watching TV is as good a medium of entertainment today, as it is with movies. This is not to say that I won’t be doing movies, it is always my first love. I was still getting film offers back then when I made a foray into television, it was working on my mind as to do I really need to do television… will I make as much as an impact on the small screen? But I chose this role on television because it portrays the girl I am in my real-life — also, my kids are old enough to be cool about a working mom, and yet want me in some way. I can stay away during the day, but they will be happy if I come back home at the end of the day. I have now realised that I can make an impact anywhere with good work. 
 
 
 This one thing — this debate about progressive and regressive — has been going on forever. The way I see it, ‘progressive’ and ‘regressive’ are great words. But it is also true that our progress is also within certain stereotypes. So, how do you make a heroine, or a lead TV female character ‘progressive’? You give her a few English lines to mouth here and there, show her as ‘educated’ — that’s it. That’s how shallow our perception of what a progressive woman is supposed to be on screen, is. But the truth is, even in the late 80s and 90s, there were a handful of serials that did stand apart as progressive, and if you look at it, the mainstay of commercial cinema still continues to be largely hero-centric. So what are we talking about here? 
 
 
 The real progress, one must say, has been in these quarters. There is equality of pay to a large extent —   happen to be as central to any project and voices that say they should be paid as good, is on the rise. Issues like harassment and casting couch are being addressed loud and clear. Sadly, the whole thing is lost in translation, as it hasn’t made any real impact when it comes to onscreen characters. In fact television is slightly more — I don’t want to use the word ‘liberated’ or ‘progressive’ here - let’s say forward, on these matters. Here we aren’t talking of only men characters, but strong women characters —  , stereotyped, still — in terms of typical bahu, maa and wife — but more defined, nevertheless. The argument here is that the target audience is women — but I would say TV is a burgeoning industry and women are on a parallel track. In the west, TV is seen as ‘big’, as movies, webseries, and shorts are shot exclusively for television. Also, there are a lot of these related industries mushrooming up feeding off one another. In India, progress will be seen, but we need to structure it better. We are trying to progress but very much within the box — that’s the real issue here.
 
 
 When it comes to TV, I really don’t look for much outside of what I am supposed to do — I am particular about the time the serial airs at, and the channel it airs on. Apart from these two or three things, I don’t look at who am I acting with, the rest of the cast — I meet, interact casually with all, that’s it. I happen to be a very flexible, adaptable person, and can work with anyone. So, if anyone comes with a baggage, it doesn’t disturb me. As far as Sembaruthi is concerned, the lead actor Sanjay Asrani — I had done a movie with him 23 years ago, which had Kamal Haasan in the lead. We renewed our acquaintance. The rest of the cast come across as very professional, clued into what they are supposed to be doing. 
 
 
 Movies are definitely happening — I have good offers from Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam industries. But I am not rushing headlong into anything… 
 
 
 When I look at the statistics, most ‘comebacks’ are executed by women, not men. Women get married, have babies, get busy obviously with another facet of their lives, and then, when she decides to work again, it’s a comeback. This necessarily doesn’t happen to a guy even if he were to clearly return after a gap of five years. That said, I think every season is a comeback — and if there you do no movies for say, a year, then the next movie will be seen as a comeback. But you don’t really exit the stage — you know. If you are an actor, you are always there in the frame. You were not there physically, in the studios, but the fact that you want to act is always there in the head…
 
 
 The real Priya is a very committed mom. I am a single parent, and I believe in being hands-on with my children. I also dabble in business. I like to keep myself active; I dislike lethargy. I am very peace-loving. I love to laugh, I travel a lot, and play with my kids. Travel does not necessarily mean a trip to a high-fashion destination. It could be anywhere where I can enjoy my life. I would say at the moment, I am enjoying my life and having a lot of fun. 
 
 
