NEW DELHI:   has prepared a   to ensure safety of all road users in the capital.   has been given to   and   and to achieve zero fatalities due to accidents. The policy is now being put up in the public domain for inviting suggestions and objections.

 Last year, transport minister Kailash Gahlot had announced that a road safety policy would be prepared and committees constituted to analyse accidents and find measures to reduce fatalities.
  
  
 The policy envisions reduction in road accidents as well as fatalities by 30% between 2018 and 2020 and by 80% between 2018 and 2025 with a minimum 10% reduction yearly. The policy focuses on four Es — education, enforcement, engineering and emergency care.
 
 As part of the policy, every fatal road accident would be scientifically probed to determine the cause and remedial measures. Accident-prone areas and black spots would be identified on the basis of accident intensity and severity every six months.
 
 The government would also undertake safety audit of all roads in a phased manner to identify all engineering and signage defects that compromise safety of road users, including pedestrians and non-motorised traffic. Plans are also afoot to remove all encroachments from pavements to ensure uninterrupted walking zones.
 
 Safe pedestrian crossing facilities near schools, hospitals, markets, etc would be ensured and speed zones would be created across Delhi within one year of the policy coming into effect. A system would be established for regulation and accreditation of driver training institutes as errors by drivers are one of the major causes behind road accidents.
 
 As part of the awareness programme, road safety education would be imparted to schoolchildren, including conducting special safety audits around schools. The government also seeks to create awareness about Supreme Court’s guidelines for protection of good Samaritans in road accidents.
 
 The plans include reconstitution of road safety cell of the transport department, which would function as the secretariat for State Road Safety Council and coordinate with other departments and agencies.
 
 The cell will analyse data on road accidents compiled by Delhi Traffic Police and identify roads and categories of accident victims. A dedicated State Road Safety Fund would also be created to fund various road safety activities.
 
 Special software would also be made to connect all trauma care centres, hospitals and ambulance services. It will also provide analytics capable of in-depth accident data collection, analysis, investigation and reporting.
 
 Traffic police personnel and engineering staff of all road-owning agencies will be required to undergo 3-5 days training on road safety every two years. The training modules for traffic police will include sensitisation towards non-motorised users and traffic management and enforcement to enable safe crossings. The training module for road engineers will include conducting road safety inspections and audit, rectification of black spots, traffic calming elements and planning and design of new and existing roads.
 
 
