LUDHIANA: The Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has developed and released five varieties of vegetables and two varieties of flowers for general cultivation in Punjab. These include Punjab Kheera 1 of cucumber,   of tomato, Punjab Tinda 1 of tinda,   1 of pumpkin,   of brinjal and Punjab Mohini and Punjab Shingar of chrysanthemum. The varieties were approved during the meeting of  , held under the Chairmanship of Dr P.S. Aulakh, Director of Horticulture, Punjab. Dr Navtej Bains, Director of Research, and Dr J.S. Mahal, Director of Extension Education, PAU, said the salient features of these varieties were discussed thoroughly by the Committee.

 The plants of Punjab Kheera 1 are vigorous, bearing 1-2 fruits per node and suitable for cultivation in poly-net house only. Its average yield is 304 quintal/acre and 370 quintal/acre in September and January sown crops, respectively.
 
 The plants of Punjab Swarna are indeterminate in growth habit with dark green foliage and suitable for cultivation under protected conditions. It gives early average yield (harvested till end of March) of 166 quintal/acre and average yield of 1,087 quintal /acre. It is suitable for table purpose.
 
 Punjab Tinda 1 is an early maturing variety and suitable for sowing in spring season. Its leaves are green and moderately lobed. Its average yield is 72 quintal/acre.
 
 PAU Magaz Kadoo 1 is a variety of pumpkin for edible seeds. Its seeds are hull-less and can be used as magaz and snacks. Its immature fruits can also be used as vegetable. Its seeds are a good source of oil and omega fatty acids. It is early in maturity and gives 2.9 quintal/hectare seed yield.
 
 Punjab Raunak is an early maturing line of long fruit group of brinjal. Its plants are medium in height, compact, thornless with green foliage. Its average yield is 607 quintal/hectare.
 
 Punjab Shingar is a mid to late season variety that requires 121.89 days for flowering. Flower yield is 71.80 quintal/acre and suitable for loose flower production. It is resistant to Septoria leaf spot disease.
 
 Punjab Mohini is an early to mid season variety that requires 93.33 days for flowering. The variety produces 331 flowers per plant, having diameter of 3.09 cm and is suitable for pot culture. It is moderately resistant to Septoria leaf spot disease.
 
 
