PANAJI: Two ayurvedic hospitals, one each in North and South Goa, announced by   minister   in 2015 are yet to take shape. So also, the setting up of the National Institute of Naturopathy and Research Center at Dhargalim in Pernem hasn’t moved much since it was announced almost two years ago. 

 Admitting to the delays,   told TOI recently that the process of handing over land for the Dhargalim project couldn’t happen on time due to the illness of chief minister Manohar Parrikar. 
 
 “Yes, there has been a delay,” Naik said. “The proposal for transferring land was deferred due to chief minister’s illness.” Naik, however, added that it would be done shortly, and that the Rs 500 crore project is very much on the cards. 
 
 A source said there had been reservation from certain quarters at the directorate of health services (DHS) in transferring about 56 acres of land for the project.
 
 Former health minister Francis D’Souza had in 2016 sought to know the total benefits that would accrue to Goans after the project is commissioned. Some argued that some portion of the Dhargalim land ought to be retained by the DHS, in case it wants to set up its own facility. Another source said that it hasn’t yet been examined whether a small state like Goa needs another ayurvedic college. “Will it able to sustain the additional 40-50 ayurvedic physicians from the new college?” he asked.
 
 Goa currently has one ayurvedic college, in Shiroda. Most graduates of this institute usually pursue government jobs while the rest join private hospitals. Very few set up their own practice. 
 
 “Those who work for private hospitals don’t practice ayurveda,” a source said. “Ayurvedic and homeopathic physicians get hired by private hospitals as they come cheap as compared to MBBS doctors.” 
 
 Naik said that the   hospital for South Goa, which was planned to be built in Macazana, will be now build in Margao. The North Goa one, he said, would be built in Sakhali. Regarding the latter, a DHS official said that questions were raised about the rationale of having two ayurvedic hospitals — in Sakhali and Dhargalim — in one district. Some even suggested that the Sakhali project be dropped. Naik, however, said both the projects are very much on the cards.
 
 The Central government had sanctioned over Rs 4.2 crore for the two projects, but neither have happened so far. 
 
 
