Pune: Frequent communications from respective bank headquarters are keeping currency managers on their toes to keep the ATMs running. 

 Shortage of currency notes in the denominations of Rs 2,000 and Rs 200 is posing a major challenge for these managers to ensure cash flow in the ATMs. “On one hand, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is not providing enough money. On the other hand, people are not bringing back cash. I have to manage with the available resources among all my network ATMs. It is becoming quite a task,” said a senior banker with extensive experience in currency management.
 
 Besides, he said, another concern is to move around with money as there’s tremendous security risk. “Maintaining so many ATMs is difficult, but it is not necessary either. At some places, there are five ATMs almost side by side. There’s an urgent need to rationalise them,” he said.
 
 Data reveals that the banks have 54% of their ATMs in metro and urban centres. If one adds the semi-urban areas to the mix, this share increases to about 82%. Rural areas, with 69% of the country’s total population, have to make do with just 18% (40,500) of the ATMs. 
 
 Another currency manager of a leading public sector bank said, “I have said so many times that limits should be imposed on cash withdrawals. People should be asked to visit bank branches to withdraw big amounts.” 
 
 He added, “RBI can fix a cap, depending upon the socio-economic profile of the population, average transaction size and the number of withdrawals.” 
 
 Data shows that average withdrawal per transaction was at about Rs 3,450 in February 2018. Over 2.2 lakh ATMs across the country saw about 72 crore transactions in the month. This translates to less than one transaction per card in a month for the over 89 crore cards in the banking system.
 
 There is, however, no publicly available micro-data on the number of times a card is used in an urban or rural area and the region-wise split. Attempts by banks to cap ATM transactions in the past had, however, invited stiff opposition from the people and bank staffers alike.
 
 
