NOIDA: Sixteen people linked to different outfits were arrested on Sunday night for vandalising the DND toll plaza earlier in the day. The accused, who were demanding a ban on the movie  , networked through WhatsApp before the incident and mostly belong to rural areas. While ten are residents of villages like Ghodi Bachera, Piyawali and Kasna in Gautam Budh Nagar, five are from Dhaulana in Hapur and one is from Ghaziabad. No one is from Noida.

 The accused are associat-ed with different outfits like   Uthan Sabha, Karni Sena, Kshetriya Mahasabha and so on. 
 
 Sushil Kumar Rathi, a sub-inspector at Film City police outpost, said scores of people had gathered in Greater Noida’s Ghodi Bachera village on Sunday afternoon to prepare for the protest. The village has mostly Rajput families.
 
 The police registered a case against 15 persons and 200 unidentified men for rioting, endangering public life, attempt-to-murder, criminal intimidation and so on under Sections 147, 148, 149, 336, 436, 307, 504, 506 of the IPC. Late on Sunday night, a man named Sanjay arrived at the police station requesting the cops to release the accused. The police scanned CCTV footage and found that he, too, was involved in the   and had come to the police station after changing his clothes. Sanjay, too, was arrested.
 
 “The protesters had come on bikes and cars. They held a programme for half-an-hour. Half of them decided to march to Greater Noida while others came to Noida and vandalised the toll plaza,” said Rathi. CCTV footage showed they were armed with rods and swords and raising slogans against the release of Padmaavat. The   guards got scared and stepped back, said Rathi. “These men remained connected to each other through mobile phones, messages and WhatsApp groups. Some of these members have political connections,” he said.
 
 Thakur Dheeraj Singh, the western UP president of Rajput Utthan Sabha, conceded that nearly 2,000 people from Noida, Greater Noida, Hapur and Bulandshahr had attended the meeting in Ghodi Bachera village. He, however, denied involvement of his outfit. 
 
 “After the meeting in Ghodi Bachera, we had held a protest march at The Grand Venice Mall and returned. A separate group had marched to Noida but we had no connection with them,” said Dheeraj, who claims to be associated with Jewar MLA Thakur Dhirendra Singh.
 
 Thakur Dhirendra Singh said Dheeraj was known to him. “I feel there is no room for violent protests in a healthy democracy to meet any demand. I also feel the filmmakers should be more careful in making films that can hurt people’s sentiments,” he said.
 
 In the FIR filed by sub-inspector Rathi, the arrested accused have not disclosed their association with any outfit. Abhinandan, circle officer of Noida I, said the police were scanning CCTV footage to identify more people. The police have seized five motorcycles from their possession. The bikes had punch-lines like “Solid Rajput”and “Thakur Tha Kaleja”.
 
 In the wake of the movie release on January 25, the police have beefed up security outside malls and theatres.
 
 
