NEW DELHI: Slamming   for reducing   for traders to allow them to run businesses from residential floors, the   said on Wednesday that the Delhi government has become a "government for traders" and was unconcerned about common residents facing problems of pollution, water shortage and garbage. 

 A bench of Justices   and Deepak Gupta said the authority is focusing on granting relief to businessmen facing the threat of sealing but not addressing infrastructure problems faced by residents. "It is a government for traders only and the people of Delhi are irrelevant for them," the bench said. Its reference was to the land-governing authority which, in the case of Delhi, is DDA under the   who is its chairperson. DDA's functioning is also closely coordinated by the ministry of housing and urban affairs. 
 
 The bench said poor citizens are being neglected because they were not going on strike to raise demands and DDA is neglecting them while addressing the problems of traders. “The interest of traders also has to be protected but your decision should be in larger public interest,” the bench told DDA. 
 
 Justifying its decision to reduce conversion charges, DDA contended that a one-time conversion charge was fixed in 2012 on the basis of 100% difference between commercial and residential rates but this was revised recently to make it reasonable, fair and affordable. It said the charge was rationalised after the approval of the Centre and the decision is not arbitrary. 
 
 “The proposal was forwarded to the ministry of urban development and, on approval, the notification issued on December 29 and conversion charge for various markets was reduced from Rs 89,094 per sq m to Rs 22,274 per sq m. DDA feels a reasonable rate will allow owners of such plots to come forward to contribute in streamlining planned development,” DDA said in its affidavit. 
 
 “It is submitted that the earlier conversion charges, which were based on 100% difference between commercial and residential value, were stringent and restrictive in nature and for a built-up area of 100 sq m, the owner had to pay Rs 89 lakh, which was almost the cost of the land in some cases.
 
 Hence there were only a few takers at such exorbitant rates,” it said. The court, however, said it meant that those who violated the court’s order by running businesses from residential floors were being granted relief while others who complied suffered. 
 
 “Is it the rule of law?” the bench said. Advocate A D N Rao, appearing for the SC-appointed monitoring committee, sought two weeks’ time to respond to DDA’s affidavit. Rao also told the court that the committee had decided to de-seal bank lockers sealed by it for three months to enable people to get their belongings from them. 
 
 “Those which have not yet been sealed will not be sealed for another three months, till June 30. If any bank has any doubt about the legality or otherwise regarding the use of the basement for lockers, it can approach the committee on or before that date. If any sealing of bank lockers is to be done after June 30, the committee will give three days’ notice to the bank concerned,” Rao told the bench. 
 
 DDA had earlier told the court there was need to amend Master Plan 2021 to accommodate the ever-growing population of the national capital and it allowed mixed use of land to ensure that people have access to commercial activities in their proximity. It had said that concerns raised by the court regarding impact of change in law on the environment and existing infrastructure had been examined by the authority and there was no illegality.
 
