MUMBAI: Coming back into the Indian Premier League (IPL) fold after a gap of two years and chasing 166 for victory in the opening match of the 11th edition at the   on Saturday evening,   began to appear like they were heading towards a defeat. Cornering them for most part of the chase were defending champions  .

 
 And that is when,   happened. Using his blade to devastating effects, the West Indian allrounder blasted seven huge sixes and three fours to smash a 30-ball 68 and left Wankhede in a state of absolute shock with a magical innings. Bravo was dismissed by Jasprit Bumrah on the last ball of the penultimate over, but, inspired by the ‘Houdini act’ of the Caribbean import,  , who had earlier walked off the field while on 14 with a hamstring strain, returned to sweep Mustafizur Rehman for a six and then drive the pacer through the covers for a four to fashion a thrilling one-wicket win.
 
 The two-year hiatus and the eventual return ended up being all the more memorable for the Chennai franchise.
 
 With a rampaging Bravo leading the way, the Super Kings smashed 40 runs in the 18th and 19th over, scoring 39 of those runs. The bowlers at the suffering end were Mitchell McClenaghan and Bumrah.
 
 Earlier, apart from producing a thriller right away, IPL-11 seemed to have thrown up a hitherto undiscovered talent in the first game itself. Not even the die-hard cricket afficionado would’ve heard of a 20-yearold from Bhatinda called Mayank Markande. On Saturday, though, the young leggie from Punjab enjoyed the biggest night of his life, as he took three for 23 in his four overs on his IPL debut for the Mumbai Indians.
 
 Preferred ahead of much better-known spinners in the line-up by skipper Rohit Sharma, Markande, who’s played for the India Under-19 team, started his match-winning spell when he had the dangerous-looking Ambati Rayudu trapped in front of the stumps while sweeping. Then, in a moment which may render him sleepless for some nights to come, he trapped CSK skipper MS Dhoni lbw with a superb googly. The young turk then scalped his third wicket when Deepak Chahar was stumped after giving him the charge.
 
 Earlier, MI did reasonably well to post 165/4 after being put in to bat first. The hosts were off to a stuttering start as they lost both their openers — skipper Sharma and the West Indian Evin Lewis — by the fourth over. It was then left to Suryakumar Yadav (43, 28b, 6x4, 1x6) and Ishan Kishan (40, 29b, 4x4, 1x6) to put the hosts back on track by adding 78 for the third wicket off 52 balls. Once this duo was dismissed, the Pandya brothers swung into action, with Krunal doing the star turn this time, smashing a quickfire, unbeaten 41(22b, 5x4, 2x6) during a 52-run, 32-ball, unbeaten partnership with Hardik for the fifth wicket. The efforts ensured MI finished their innings with a flourish.
 
 Krunal was especially severe on Mark Wood, with the England seamer going for 36 runs in his last two overs. Feasting on Wood’s pace, the left-hander blasted two fours and a six in both the 17th and the 19th overs delivered by the fast bowler. It concluded a nightmarish IPL debut for Wood, who conceded as many as 49 runs off his four overs. The 28-year-old has good pace and seemed to rattle the batsmen with his bouncers, but on a flat Wankhede wicket, he was cannon fodder for batsmen like Krunal, who twice pulled him for sixes — the second one landing in the top tier behind the fine leg region.s
 
 
