PANAJI: Much to the dismay of several students answering the   ( ), they have been assigned centres in neighbouring Maharashtra and  . This has given rise to the worry among   at the exam might be affected as the day before the test will be spent travelling.

 
 The NEET to be held on Sunday will see 3,683 students answer the exam from eight centres across the state. As per central government directives, NEET is held for aspirants to degree programmes in medicine, dentistry, ayurveda, and homeopathy. But, the state government decided that admissions to five allied health degree programmes and the nursing course will also happen through NEET.
 
 This has resulted in an increased number answering the exam in 2018 from Goa, which is why several students were allotted examination centres outside Goa’s borders.
 
 NEET director in a public notice issued on April 18 stated that “there is no human intervention in allotment of the centres as the same is being done with the help of computer.” The notice went on to add that, “After allotment of centres, no change in the centre or centre city could be done in any case because all the arrangements for the examination have been made by the CBSE. The centres are not allotted on first cum first service basis”.
 
 The public notice was directed to students who made requests to change their centre after they saw that they were allotted a centre that wasn’t among their three choices.
 
 Students answering NEET were asked to provide three centre preferences in the registration form for the test. Many stated that they filled names of centres in neighbouring states just as a formality and had no inkling they would be allotted these instead of centres in their home state.
 
 This has left several parents and students upset with the arrangement. Parents said that booking tickets for travel during   also caused them lot of anxiety.
 
 Parents told 
  that they were unable to understand the criteria behind allotting centres to students. One parent said that with schools shut for vacations, and plenty of classroom space available, there shouldn’t have been any problem in introducing more centres for students within the state.
 
 The problem is being voiced in other states, too.
 
 Meanwhile, on Friday, preparations for the NEET were on in full swing in the centres in Goa. Among other arrangements, exam centres were being fitted with phone signal jammers.
 
 
