HYDERABAD: Proceeding along the road behind the High Court towards Afzalgunj from City College, one can’t help but despair at the sorry state of the mighty river Musi. The river, once trademark of Hyderabad for centuries with its pristine and crystal clear waters is now in decline, frothing at the Muslim Jung bridge, carrying a streak of highly poisonous foam.

 Downstream of the Muslim Jung bridge, foamy water flows along the river’s left bank over the now defunct rubber dam, while in the middle of the river and on the bank, oily dark black water can be seen. As if the poisonous foam and highly polluted black water is not enough, the presence of huge heaps of foul-smelling garbage, strewn all along the river course bodes badly. It will only worsen as the summer approaches.
 
 Though the Musi has been frothing for quite some time, streaks of foam are developing at new places as pollution levels of the river increase. Foamy water was noticed just behind the high court, downstream of Puranapul and   and   on Tuesday. The situation is even worse downstream of Chadarghat as the Malakpet nala and the sewers from   side join the river, bringing in more pollution.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 A visit to several areas abutting the Musi from   to Peerzadiguda reveals the cause. As more and more municipal drains empty into the river as it flows towards east, the water quality only turns murkier, points out senior scientist and environment activist Dr K Babu Rao.
 
 Dr Rao’s team carried out a study on biomedical waste sent into the river, particularly near Osmania  . Several other research reports by local, national and international teams of researchers also say that Musi has over the years turned into one of the most polluted rivers in India. Earlier this year, the World Health Organisation (WHO) reported the presence of poliovirus shed by children, who underwent trivalent poliomyelitis vaccination, indicating the mixing of human waste with the river water.
 
 The proposed Musi beautification project will take some time to become a reality, “Opening sewage treatment plants (STPs) will take a long time. Until the mega plans of the state government takes shape which will clean the Musi of its polluted waters, clearing of garbage should be taken up as an immediate step.” says environmental activist V Satyanarayana.
 
 
