HASSAN:   district police will take on the onerous task of keeping count of visitors climbing and descending the   during the  . The decision is aimed at better crowd management and to avoid potential trouble. It is part of the elaborate arrangements made by Hassan police and the district authorities to ensure order and manage the crowd.

 Hassan SP, Rahul Kumar Shahapurwad, told TOI that police will keep track of every visitor ascending or descending the hill. This he said will be done with the aid of technology. “It will give us an idea of how many people are gathered at the hill shrine at any given time,”   said. “This will help us manage the crowd smoothly in case of an emergency.”
 
 Another major challenge for police is to monitor movement of vehicles, especially since the town will be crowded. About 105 acres around Shravanabelagola town, including some streets, have been earmarked as parking areas. No private vehicles will be allowed close to the hillock. Only vehicles carrying VVIPs and security personnel will be allowed beyond town limits during the Mahamastakabishekha from February 17-26. KSRTC buses will ferry visitors from designated parking areas to the Vindhyagiri hills.
 
 About 40 lakh people are expected to turn out for the festival, but police claim they are prepared to tackle any number of visitors. An integrated control room has been set up at the site to handle any situation and to monitor the crowd. This will be done in coordination with officials of all departments concerned including health and fire and emergency services. Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority officials will also keep in close touch with police and district authorities.
 
 Barricades have been arranged to avoid a potential stampede and CCTV cameras have been installed at virtually every vantage spot in the town, the Mahamastakabishekha site, hillock and steps. The footage will be monitored round the clock. A public address system is also in place to direct visitors.
 
 Shahapurwad urged visitors and devotees to follow instructions delivered by authorities. He also advised people to travel with minimum load or luggage. He said general instructions have been issued to visitors, organizers, officials on duty and other stakeholders.
 
