A postgraduate medical aspirant approached the Bombay high court on Saturday saying a Navi Mumbai-based college, part of a deemed university, has asked her for an “unofficial payment” of Rs 50 lakh in addition to the fees for a MD (dermatology) seat in the NRI quota.

 “Please save my seat. I got it on merit. They are selling it…. It will affect my career,’’ she cried, seeking “urgent relief ” from a vacation bench of Justices Shahrukh Kathawalla and Ajay Gadkari.
 
 An official from D Y   told TOI that he is unaware about this specific case, but that “there are students who are allotted seats by the Centre and are unable to pay the fees upfront and they also want to hold on to the seat. We are not sure if this is the case. We will look into it”. He added that the seats are limited in post-graduation courses, so not many admissions will be affected. He also said that the petitioner would have to produce proof about her allegation.
 
 Mentioning the matter for urgent relief, her advocate said she was granted a provisional allotment on May19 by   (DGHS) for admission in MD (Dermatology) in the NRI quota. Although the college accepted her documents, it did not give an acknowledgement for it. When she went to pay the fees, she was asked to pay Rs 50 lakh additionally.
 
 The judges said it is not possible to grant any relief as the college is not represented. The advocate then said it was the last day and if by 5 pm she is not given admission, the seat would go to someone who is ready and willing to pay for it.
 
 The student also said there is demand for dermatology. “There are many takers for dermatology. They are willing to pay anything for a seat. You (judges) know how things work here,” she said.
 
 The bench, in its order, said: “Since notice is not given to the college we are unable to verify the allegation.” Posting the hearing for May 28, the judges said all steps taken by the college granting admission to students in MD (Dermatology) between today and Monday “shall be subject to the orders passed by this court on Monday”.
 
 The college is affiliated to part of a deemed university, so its fee structure is not regulated by the state government. Admissions to such institutes are, however, conducted by the DGHS. The fees for a merit quota MD (dermatology) seat at the institute is Rs 45 lakh and for the NRI quota it is $1,00,000 (or Rs 67 lakh, as per Saturday’s conversion rate) according to their website.
 
 
