The equity market of India saw a pretty negative start on Wednesday, primarily because of weak global cues and Nifty on Singapore Stock Exchange (SGX). At 8 am in the morning, Nifty50 futures of SGX were trading 61 points or 0.57 per cent lower at 10,589. 

 Below mentioned is the list of top stocks that are expected to be in focus throughout today's trading session: 
 
 Bharti Airtel: India’s major telecom giant’s operations reported their first net loss in nearly 15 years in the Q4 results of FY2017-18 and joined Idea Cellular and Vodafone India in business, as Reliance Jio’s lowered tariffs and international termination rates (ITR) took toll on the country’s largest tele companies. The company managed to earn a net profit of Rs 83 crore on a consolidated basis, which was the lowest in about one-and-a-half decades, in the quarter that just ended, a 78 per cent year-on-year drop. This was the result of Africa operations which clocked a profit of Rs 698.70 crore. 
 
 
 Fortis Healthcare: Malaysia-based healthcare group IHH and KKR-earned Radiant Life Care have submitted lucrative offers for   on Tuesday to compete with Manipal-TPG and a combined offer from Hero Enterprise Investment-Burman Family Office. IHH has submitted a binding offer to use Rs 650 crore immediately into Fortis Healthcare, while Radiant-KKR have submitted a binding offer to purchase Fortis Mulund for Rs 1,200 crore without any delay.
 
 
 Wipro: The IT exporter   is slated to announce its March quarter results today. Everybody is eyeing on the management commentary on its energy segment that constitutes about 13 per cent of the company’s revenues. Also, an update on its healthcare branch will be looked forward to. Popular brokerage firm, HDFC Securities Institutional Research stated that the IT firm would lag peers in terms of FY19-20 growth. 
 
 
 ICICI Bank:   has gave up the plans to sell its non-banking finance company, which was into home finance after more than two years of trying and is now looking to expand its loan book through the affordable housing section that saw a rise in demand because of government subsidy. ICICI Home Finance (IHF) will also restart financing consumer durable purchases 10 years after stopping that business in the bank.
 
 
 IDFC Bank:   today reported over 76 per cent jump in the net profit to Rs 41.93 crore for the March quarter on rise in bad loans and higher provisioning. The bank had earlier registered a net profit of Rs 175.95 crore in the January-March quarter of FY 2016-17. Its total income was however higher during the fourth quarter of 2017-18 at Rs 2,374.35 crore as against Rs 2,279.65 crore in the year-ago period, the bank said in a regulatory filing. 
 
