NOIDA: Local residents and family members of gym trainer  , who was shot at by trainee sub-inspector Vijay Darshan last Saturday night, held a protest outside the district magistrate’s office on Thursday, demanding a   inquiry into the shooting. They marched from Noida stadium to the DM’s office at around 11.30 am. Traffic was disrupted as the protest continued for almost one hour.

 Nepal Yadav, Jitendra Yadav’s father, said almost a week had passed since his son was shot at in cold blood. “There was no personal enmity between my family and others. We demand a CBI probe into the case so that justice is delivered,” he said.
 
 The protesters, holding placards and banners, raised slogans against the encounters taking place in Noida and other areas. Samajwadi Party’s Rajya Sabha MP Surendra Nagar also joined the protest and extended support to the victim’s family. They submitted a memorandum to governor   through city magistrate Mahindra Singh.
 
 A delegation led by Nagar later met district magistrate B N Singh. “We have demanded a CBI probe into the shooting. The other three cops accompanying the accused sub-inspector should also be arrested. The family should be given adequate compensation by the government,” Nagar told media persons.
 
 District magistrate B N Singh said that he would forward the application demanding a CBI probe to the state government. The medical reports revealed that Jitendra Yadav was under the influence of alcohol at the time of the shooting. Nepal Yadav said he does not believe the medical report. “My son is seriously wounded and he is not in a condition to state the facts. It is us versus the state government. They have the machinery and the system in place. We do not know what the medical report says. They can get the report manipulated,” he said. The family members said they will wait for a week for the government response and then decide on further move.
 
 Meanwhile, SSP Love Kumar held a meeting with under trainee sub-inspectors and sensitised them over policing. Kumar advised the SIs to be tough with criminals but ensure their behaviour was friendly with citizens. 
 
 “The sub-inspectors have been sensitized to maintain the discipline and decorum,” he said.
 
 
