NEW DELHI: When commuting in the city, your frequently chance upon a displeased Hanuman staring at you from the rear windshield of cars. Eyes glowering below arched eyebrows, half the face in shadows, the image on the fluorescent orange sticker hints at religious indignation. It is, but not in the way you would interpret it. For a family at Pillanji village uses it for an entirely noble cause.

 At Pillanji, which lies behind INA Market, a 10-foot high hoarding with the familiar image stands in front of a small temple. “Balaji Kunba — a family against hunger”, reads the text. The description goes on, “He goes to a temple to eat a laddoo, he goes to a mosque to eat kheer. The hungry don’t understand religion.”
 
 Within the temple courtyard, a family group (kunba means clan in Hindi) is busy preparing the last lot of fried savouries, bread and tea. As he slips bread pakoras into the hot oil,  , 31, says, “Our motto is ek parivar bhookh ke khilaf. Our message is: Let’s be angry at hunger, not religious issues.” He then discloses that Hanuman’s anger is directed at hunger and poverty.
 
 The group, initially comprising four cousins in the   extended family, has now grown to 10. For nine months now, it has been distributing free food outside hospitals like AIIMS, RML and GB Pant and to the homeless living under flyovers and in slums. “I saw hungry kids begging at road crossings every day and decided that giving them food instead of money was a better idea,” reveals Dinesh. Since then, on every Tuesday and Saturday and on festive days, puri-sabzi, halwa, chickpea (and sweets on special occasions) leave the temple at Pillanji. The group normally feeds up to 300 people, but Dinesh says it has doled out breakfast or tea and snacks to even 1,000 people at times.
 
 Despite the religious iconography, Balaji Kunda engages with all communities, asserts  , having even “distributed kheer on Eid”.   operates a fleet of 30 taxies and sets aside a part of his income for the project. Gaurav, another member, owns a tent house business and contributes with resources. “It takes Rs 12,000 a week to keep things going, much of it coming from our families,” Dinesh says. A clan member adds, “But it also a pretext to meet extended family members.”
 
 But why Hanuman stickers? “Because we are operating from a Hanuman temple and we really liked this image. It is different and gets your attention,” reasons Dinesh. “We contacted the original artist in south India and he had no problem in its being used for a good cause.” The family has apparently distributed over 20,000 stickers. The car sticker is made in   and costs Rs 300 each, while the smaller stickers take around Rs 3 to print at a press in Okhla.
 
