If being a bohemian requires courage and the ability to be an unapologetic dreamer, what does it take to be a partner of such a person? Unconditional love, an ability to accept uncertainties, and the strength to forget — and forgive, maybe — all that life never made easy.

 Seventy-three-year-old Minakshi Chattopadhyay has all of that, and much, much more. As the wife of poet Shakti Chattopadhyay, whom she had met in 1965 and married two years later and lived with him till his death in 1995, she has seen and borne it all — the “madness” and indiscipline of a genius poet, but also the warmth and easy companionship of a husband who she misses every day, even now. 
 
 When they met in the heady mid-Sixties, Minakshi and Shakti were part of a group for whom evenings meant songs and adda. “He was the one to introduce me to so many obscure places in Kolkata,” she recalls. “I never knew Victoria Memorial had such a good museum inside. He took me to the cemetery of Achi Saheb in Budge Budge. He also gave me a statue of Jesus during our trip to Kumartuli,” she reminisces, about their courtship.
 
 She was as surprised as everyone else when Shakti announced to the entire world that he would marry her on August 15, 1967. “He hadn’t talked to me about it. When I confronted him in front of the Gwalior monument at Babughat, he just said it seemed fine, since it was a holiday. When I asked him, ‘What if I don’t agree?’, pat came the reply: ‘Ganga-e thele phele debo! (I’ll push you to the Ganges)’.”
 
 Back then, Shakti didn’t have a permanent job. They had a ten-and-a-half-year age difference, and his unkempt appearance wouldn’t make him a handsome groom. But the bohemian Shakti won, and the couple registered their marriage on August 15.
 
 One day, soon after marriage, Shakti stepped out of home, telling Minakshi he was going to buy cigarettes. On the way, he met a friend who was driving to Bhutan. The next thing Minakshi knew, Shakti had hitched a ride to Bhutan. “I would initially worry,” she says. “But his mother was quite relaxed. Indiscipline, I soon realised, was in his blood.”
 
 Shakti, she says, once announced that he and his friend Samir Sengupta would open a bookshop. Minakshi had quit teaching at South Point school at that time. The plan sounded fine, but for one glitch: Shakti had neither the money nor the space to run a bookshop. He would get Rs 20 for a poem, but “he believed he would be able to convince the owner of a studio near Purna cinema to vacate his premises and make room for the bookshop,” she says.
 
 The idea was highly implausible. Why would a man suddenly give up his studio at the request of someone he didn’t even know? But Shakti believed otherwise. One day, he actually went to convince the studio owner. Minakshi stood at a distance, watching Shakti and Samir argue their case. Obviously, the studio owner didn’t relent. But that day Minakshi understood that marrying a dreamer would mean more such incidents. 
 
 It didn’t take long for Shakti’s outward flamboyance, clubbed with the inner calm of his enduringly mysterious monologues, to turn him into an icon. But that didn’t curb his restlessness. Once, a kabuliwalah landed up at their home, since Shakti wanted to start a pistachio and nuts business! On another day, along with author Subhas Mukhopadhyay, he went angling. “He promised to come home with fish that I should cook for lunch. While waiting for him, I cooked rice and egg curry. In the afternoon, he returned empty-handed and asked me what was for lunch. When I reminded him of his promise of getting fish, I was told that they had luckily escaped arrest because they had landed up fishing in a prohibited zone,” she says.
 
 Yet, Minakshi never accuses Shakti of being irresponsible. “Even when he left home unannounced, there would be slips tucked around mentioning how much milk he had fed our daughter before leaving. He would stay up at night to apply cold compress if our children ran high temperature or clean up if they puked,” she recalls.
 
 But dealing with his alcohol habit wasn’t easy. It added to Minakshi’s woes of running a financially unstable household. She would burst out in anger, but her tirade would always be met with silence. “He never uttered a word when I shouted,” she says. When she left home in anger because of his sudden disappearances, Shakti would write her letters claiming he had left unannounced in search of a job. Minakshi didn’t buy those alibis, but she agreed to live with the man who was an iconoclast.
 
 Loving and living with a bohemian isn’t easy. But Minakshi insists it’s not an impossibility, when there is trust and dependence. And what is her advice to a girl who’s in love with a bohemian? “Be friends, but don’t get married,” she signs off.
 
 
