It’s been more than a decade since she made an appearance in a Bollywood film, but that doesn’t take away from the popularity   enjoys. That the actress was literally mobbed at a recently held event in the city stands testimony to it. “I know it’s very unnerving when so many people pounce on you like that. But it makes me really happy to see that I’m still liked by so many people,” Shilpa tells us later in her five-star suite. In a brief yet lively chat, the actress talks about motherhood, life away from showbiz and the good and ugly sides of social media. 

 On social media war
 Shilpa handles social media with elan and is well aware of its potential pitfalls too. “Social media is like a double-edged sword. You have to tackle it very carefully,” she says. Then how does she manage it? “We are already living in a glass fish bowl. Our lives are out in the open. Now, with social media, it has become even more public. But that’s a choice we all make. I’m very active on social media because I think it is a great tool, which can be used to our advantage if need be,” she adds.
 Shilpa also thinks social media has made it easier for celebrities to interact with their fans directly. “This is one platform that cannot be misconstrued by your audiences and fans,” she says, adding, “Back in the day, when we began our career, we’d sometimes be misquoted in our interviews. There were limited ways to clarify things and even when we could, it would take a long time. But now, social media acts as a platform to clarify our stand and voice our opinion. It’s a very powerful medium and I do know where to draw the line.”
 Admitting its adverse effects on today’s generation, Shilpa says, “Today’s youth is heavily influenced by social media. So much so that they are losing the basic essence of life. They are so engrossed in taking photos and posting it online that they are forgetting to live the moment.”
 Shilpa, who has been attacked by online trolls time and again, has learnt it the hard way. “As a celebrity, we should never complain or explain. I think that mantra has really worked for me,” she reveals.
 
 
 Her Kolkata connect
 Shilpa, who visits Kolkata every now and then, has some of her favourite things in the city. “I love Kolkata. All my favourite desserts come from here,” she says with a smile. But given the fact that she maintains a strict diet, does she at all touch the sweets? “Yes, I love sweets. Don’t you see my Sunday binge posts on Instagram? (rolls her eyes)” she asks, adding, “My favourite is rosogolla. Today, as I came here, I nicked a cheat day and indulged in some mishti doi. Besides, I also love the chaat and desi Chinese delicacies.” Apart from food, the actress also has other reasons to like the city. “There is this old-world charm about Kolkata. The trams, the buildings are all reminiscent of the colonial era. I have also shot here and have many fond memories of this city,” she adds. 
 
 Handling the spotlight
 From being mobbed to posing for endless selfies — Shilpa handles it all with her enviable smile. But how does it feel to be in the spotlight constantly? The actress feels she has been in this industry for way too long to imagine things differently. “When you choose to be a public figure, you have to succumb to the clauses in the contract that come with it. I’ve been in this profession for around 25 years. And now I don’t know how life would be without this chaotic craze,” she replies with a smile.
 being a busy mom
 Does she feel guilty for being a busy mother? “Yes,” she replies instantly. “That’s such a quick answer, no (laughs)? But then I read somewhere that you shouldn’t feel guilty because that permeates into your relationship with your child,” Shilpa says, adding, “Like every mother, I feel I should spend more time with my son ( ). See, we live a very hectic life. When I am home, I dedicate all my time to him. But guilt creeps in despite the fact that I give my son a lot of time.” But the actress also has equal respect for her work. “I’m a hands-on mother. But there are certain things that I have chosen to do. I have started walking on this path of spreading the message of health awareness, wellness and fitness. I have to travel and do other things that demand my time,” she adds.
 
 Missing being an actor
 It’s been a decade since she appeared in a movie. Despite being in the limelight, she does miss acting. “I miss playing a role. I miss taking directions in front of the camera but I don’t miss the erratic lifestyle. I’ve done that for almost two decades and then I decided to get married. In two years I had a baby. I did not want to work because I became a mother pretty late in life. Once you have been there done that you don’t miss it. Motherhood filled my life with joy. But when my son was seven months old, I started working in TV again. I’ve not done a movie in the last 11 years,” she says.
 
 
 
