NEW DELHI: Delhi’s forest department may soon be trying a host of new techniques to bring the growing   population under control across the capital, beginning with special vaccines imported from abroad. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Following Delhi high court’s recent observation that the Asola Bhatti wildlife sanctuary had become extremely overpopulated, the forest department wrote to the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) to import special ‘immunocontraception’ vaccines for a trial run, which will be conducted at the Asola Bhatti sanctuary that currently houses nearly 20,000 monkeys.
 
 Forest officials said discussions were held recently to   an alternative site in the city where the monkeys could be shifted, however no suitable place could be identified. Following this, other options were being discussed. Officials said immunocontraception vaccines have been used abroad successfully and are often used in the wildlife to control the numbers of several different species.
 
 “The vaccine is quite expensive and will have to be imported to the capital, so we will first use it on a trial basis before importing more. The trials will be carried out at the Asola Bhatti wildlife sanctuary soon,” a forest official told TOI.
 
 According to sources, the monkeys will be isolated in the testing phase and examined for a brief period to see how effective the technique can be. Based on the success of it, the department will take the next call. “Finding new locations is a problem as the central or northern ridge both have settlements around them. If monkeys are released there, they will start moving out and reach colonies nearby,” said a forest official.
 
 Experts, however, feel natural options in the form of predators need to be looked at. C R Babu, professor emeritus and head of the Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystem (CEMDE), said the department needs to improve the habitat at Asola so that the predator count increases in the area. “Once you improve the habitat, the carnivores and predators will increase and this will naturally control the population of monkeys there. Civet cats and jackals are already known to prey on young monkeys and an increase in their numbers can help bring better balance,” he added.
 
 The forest department has been transferring monkeys to Asola Bhatti wildlife sanctuary for nearly a decade now after a high court order. The monkeys are fed nearly 2,500kg food every day.
 
