UDAIPUR: Fires in the wild are not uncommon in Southern Rajasthan, the bizzare tribal customs and their indigenous technique of burning the hills and land to re-vitalize it, is posing a major threat to the dense green forest cover in the area. Recently, more than 400 hectares of grassland was charred in   wildlife sanctuary when fire prevailed in the area for more than five days at a stretrch while Sajjangarh hills caught flames a day ago. Disaster fighting team had toiled for hours to control the fire that had spread to a large area. Sources claim, tribal custom 'Magra Snan' i.e offering fire to please ' ' or the Hill God upon accomplishment of any wish is the foremost reason behind the wildfires that damages the precious flora and fauna. 

 Sources claim, as per tradition, local tribals go on a forest-burning spree after the Holi festival. This practice of burning forests, which is carried out in tribal areas has caused major destruction of the green cover. However, forest authorities claim in Udaipur no serious damages have been caused to the trees or animals. "Despite several efforts to sensitize, people in tribal areas continue to offer 'agni snan' on being mislead by the local 'bhopas' and tantriks. They believe it to be a purification process to ascertain prosperity in their lives," said Rahul Bhatnagar, Chief Conservator of Forest (Wild Life). Another reason behind the intentional fire is the local belief that if grass are burnt, the ashes supply phosphorus to the soil and enrich its property and next year they get better and softer grass for their livestock. Mahua and Honey bee collecting communities too reportedly, set fire in the forest, authorities claim. "Mahua flowers drop in the early mornings. Its rather difficult to segregate flowers from the heap of dried and fallen leaves and so the tribals go to the forest a day earlier. Collect and put fire on the dried leaves heap so that next morning they can easily identify and pick flowers. However they do not care to putoff the fire when the heaps are burnt and sometimes the fire takes a massive form," Bhatnagar added. 
 
  "Earlier locals had a share in the forest produce but ever since there had been an amendment in the Rajasthan Forest Act with the villagers getting no benefits, they have stopped cooperating when fire breaks out and we have to fight it alone with a deficit manpower," Bhatnagar pointed out.
 
