KOLKATA: Class X and XII   board examination candidates, who took their mathematics and economics tests respectively on Wednesday, were shocked to learn they would have to appear for the papers again following a question paper leak on social media. The board announced a retest after images of the papers, which had been circulated the night before in some regions, were confirmed a leak. The CBSE will announce the re-test date within a week.

 Shortly after the tests concluded, the CBSE issued a notice, saying the board had “taken cognizance of certain happenings in the conduct of certain examinations which has been reported”. “With the view to uphold the sanctity of the exam and in the interest of fairness to the students, the board has decided to re-conduct the examinations—economics (Class XII) and mathematics (Class X),” the notice stated.
 
 MHRD minister Prakash Javadekar’s assurance of a “leak-proof ” question paper from Monday came as little consolation for students here. For Class X examinees, the Wednesday’s math test was to be the last mainstream paper. Even school principals and teachers seemed dismayed as news of the retest broke, some calling it “nothing short of harassment”.   principal Rekha Vaisya felt the mathematics question paper on Wednesday was easy. “Students came out of the exam halls smiling. Even the economics question paper was up to the mark. Now, students will be apprehensive about how they will score a second time.”
 
 Anusuya Majumdar, mother of twins Anushna and Anushka who appeared for their economics exam, is worried about the re-test. “We are stunned. CBSE is supposed to be a very efficiently administered examconducting body. Economics is a vital subject. After the paper got over, my daughters were relaxed as they had only one more test to go. They are now disappointed that they will have to take the test all over again,” she said. Anushna pointed out that the re-test would come in the way of preparation for entrance examinations. “They will lose out on preparation time,” she said.
 
 A student at   accused CBSE of not being able to ensure secure question papers. “We have plans for a vacation. I was elated that we will head out soon after the examination. But now, I am worried about the difficulty level of the next question paper. Our plans will go for a toss,” he said.
 
 DPS Ruby Park principal   termed the leak and the re-test “nothing short of harassment”. “Even now we are not aware of any leak of question paper anywhere. My students appearing for CBSE Class X said the exam was conducted smoothly on Wednesday. Even the economics paper was easy. I can empathize with them as I know how much stress they are now undergoing,” she said.
 
 Birla High School student   was visibly irritated: “I had prepared well for my mathematics paper and was confident of a good score. Now, I will again have to start from scratch,” he said. His friend, Harishankar Nair, who studies at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, said he was all set to travel to Hyderabad. “Now, we are thrown into uncertainty,” the Class X student said.
 
