LUDHIANA: Doctors from private, charitable, and government hospitals of Ludhiana district went on a strike on Tuesday. They had gathered in the office of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) —   — to raise their voice against the new National Medical Council (NMC) Bill. The IMA declared 2 January 2018 as ‘Black Day’ for medical practitioners all over India.

 Dr Avinash Jindal, president, IMA Ludhiana branch; Dr   Sobti, former president, IMA Punjab; and Dr  , president elect-2018, IMA Ludhiana; said: “The NMC Bill in the present form is unacceptable to us. Doctors in   also went on strike for two hours. Many patients did suffer, but we had no choice. When we resumed, we did check patients who were waiting.” 
 
 Civil surgeon Dr Hardeep Singh Ghai added: “Emergency was working in Civil Hospital, but OPD was closed for two hours. I have given information about this to higher authorities. In Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), the general OPD was closed. Only those patients were checked who had chronic ailments, those who had taken prior appointment, and those coming from other districts and states.”
 
 DMCH medical superintendent Dr   said: “OPD was closed as per orders of national IMA. We know many patients suffer, but at times even doctors are helpless. Standing against this was important. After gathering in the IMA House, doctors went to the deputy commissioner, submitted the memorandum, and asked for their demands to be fulfilled.”
 
 During peak hours, OPDs were closed in all hospitals. 
 
 
 
 
 1. NMC is a pro-private management bill that removes all regulations required to start a medical college. Also, any private medical college can increase their UG/PG seats on their own.
 
 2. Medical education in the country will become expensive, placing lower socio-economic groups in great disadvantage. Only 40% of seats in a private medical college can be regulated by the government. For 60% or more seats, private colleges will fix the rates.
 
 3. Huge loopholes in financial penalties, ranging from Rs5 crore to Rs100 crore, opening the floodgates of corruption.
 
 4. It is anti-patient since it permits and promotes unscientific mixing of systems of medicine. It closes the gates for Indian medical graduates, and opens them for foreign doctors and foreign-educated medical graduates.
 
 5. Only five states will be represented in NMC at any point of time.
 
 6. The state medical councils will come directly under NMC.
 
 7. Medical universities do not have a representation in NMC. One per state will be represented in an advisory body called Medical Advisory Council.
 
 8. A medical bill like NMC without concurrence of the medical profession and medical association will be a disaster.
 
 9. The cost of medical education and healthcare will rise astronomically.
 
 
