HYDERABAD: Iranian President  's visit to Hyderabad and his proposed interaction with the city's Muslim elite is seen as a strategic move by Iran to emerge as a world leader of Muslims. Cultural and historical ties between Iran and Hyderabad are over 500 years old and dates back to the period of Safavid dynasty in Iran and   regime in Hyderabad. There were times when rulers of Hyderabad were more affiliated to rulers of Iran rather than the mighty Moghul Empire in Delhi. 

 In fact, no other city in the world has been so much influenced by Iranian culture, history, heritage, fabrics, gardens, mansions, architecture, urban planning, customs and traditions and cuisine as Hyderabad. Everything that's considered   now is a blend of Indo-Iranian culture. According to city historians, the visit of Dr Hassan Rouhani to   and other historical sites of Qutub Shahi era will strengthen the age-old relations between India and Iran.
 
 Some local Muslim groups, however, feel the visit will help Iran consolidate its move to emerge as the world leader of Muslims. In fact, only Iran and Turkey have been raising the cause of Muslims, particularly the Palestinian issue. 
 
 
 
 
 Turkey President Recep Tayyip Erdogan was hailed in the city as a world Muslim leader when he opposed the US decision to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. In this backdrop, the visit by the Iranian President gains significance.
 
 Incidentally, Hyderabad is the only major city in India where Sunnis and Shias live in harmony. Sufism, which is widely practised in Hyderabad, was introduced to India through Iran. This Islamic school of mysticism has Iranian influence. Hyderabad has an Iranian consulate too.
 
 Commenting on the proposed interaction with the Muslim elite and the address at the Friday congregation in Mecca Masjid, city historian and senior Shia scholar Allama Aijaz Farruq told TOIHyderabad is the most suitable place for Sunni-Shia and in fact, Hindu-Muslim unity. “There is no better place than Hyderabad for a visiting dignitary to address different sects and sub-sects of Muslims at one common platform,” the Allama said.
 
 According to nonagenarian Jeelani Pairak, who heads the World Qiraat Council, a body dedicated to holding competitions in the recitation of the Quran, the Iranian President has rightly chosen Hyderabad as the city is influenced largely by Iranian culture. “Delhi is influenced by Moghul culture, while Hyderabad owes its city planning and architecture and the extinct gardens to Iran,” he adds. The state government made arrangements for the historic visit of Rouhani to Hyderabad. According to a statement, the President will visit Salarjung Museum and interact with people of Iranian descent.
 
 
 
