RAJKOT: Eight persons including BJP leader and vice-president of Gujarat Thakor and Koli Development Corporation,  , were booked late on Thursday night after a video of two youth —   Bawalia and   Makwana — being thrashed and paraded semi-naked in Gondal town went viral. 

 All the accused were booked for rioting, assault and insulting with the intent to provoke breach of peace. 
 
 It has come to light that the youth had pasted posters on walls across Gondal town against local cop Narendra Jadeja, accusing him of corruption. They had pasted one such poster on the stage where idol of lord ‘Madhata’, considered god by the people of Koli community, was installed.
 
 The posters alleged that Jadeja was involved in illegal activities like bootlegging and gambling and requested the district superintended of police to take action against him. However, no abusive word was used in the posters.
 
 According to sources, the entire episode was intentionally made into a case of abuse of religious sentiments of Koli community. Police did not intervene when both the youth were being paraded semi-naked on Gondal roads. 
 
 When the mob came to police station with the abused duo, they were sent to hospital for treatment. Since this was a medico-legal case it became necessary to register an FIR. 
 
 A policeman close to the development confirmed that after the video of the incident went viral on social media, senior police officers feared that it could become a national issue like that of Dalit man being beaten to death in Shapar, Rajkot and decided to lodge the complaint.
 
 However, the FIR states that the posters with wrong allegation against Jadeja were posted by the victims. It further read “because of the posters, feelings of a community was hurt”. 
 
 Both Ranjit and Dilip are in shock and in no position to talk. They were engaged in daily labour work. 
 
 Rajkot in-charge SP Shruti S Mehta told TOI: “The duo wrote against Narendra Jadaja because Ranjit’s mother-in-law had lodged a complain against him and Jadeja is investigating the case. So prima facie, we believe that he did it harbouring grudge against Jadeja.”
 
 When asked why people were allowed to take law into their hands, Mehta said “The same thing happened in Shapar as well as in Gondal. That is the mindset of the people here to take the law in their hand rather then informing the police. We are struggling to change it.”
 
 
