AMRITSAR: Union home minister   Singh unveiled a statue of revolutionary   at   here on Tuesday. The statue has been installed by International Sarav Kamboj Samaj, 78 year after Udham Singh had shot dead Michael Francis O’Dwyer, the then lieutenant governor of Punjab, at London’s Caxton Hall on March 13, 1940.

 O’Dawyer had endorsed the action of General Reginald Edward Harry Dyer, who had ordered the   troops to open fire on unarmed gathering of Indians at Jallianwala Bagh on April 13, 1919, which left over a thousand persons dead and several injured.
 
 Earlier, Rajnath paid obeisance at the Golden Temple and paid homage to the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh at the flame of liberty monument.
 
 During his address, Rajnath lauded the efforts to Kamboj community for honouring freedom fighters. He also announced that government would observe the centenary massacre of Jallianwala Bagh at the national-level.
 
 He said he couldn’t resist himself from attending the unveiling ceremony of Udham Singh’s statue when he was contacted by Kamboj community leaders. The home minister said, “He represented the youth who had the strength to bring about a positive change and energy in the country. Udham Singh’s statue would instil inspiration among the youth of the country.”
 
 While expressing concern over the incidents of toppling, demolition, and defacing of statues across India, Rajnath said this was against the culture of the nation.
 
 He also condemned the Naxal attack in Sukma in Chhattisgarh, where left nine CRPF personnel were killed. “It’s a deeply distressing incident,” he said, adding that he bowed to every person who attained martyrdom while serving the nation.
 
 He also tweeted, “My heartfelt condolences to the families of those personnel who lost their lives in Sukma blast. I pray for the speedy recovery of the injured jawans. I spoke to DG @crpfindia regarding the Sukma incident and asked him to leave for Chhattisgarh.”
 
 Meanwhile, a few activists of the   students’ body NSUI showed black flags to Rajnath and protested against Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘pakora employment’ remark. “Government should provide deserving jobs to the educated youth,” said Arjun Sharma, president of NSUI unit of Sri Luxmi Narayan Ayurvedic College.
 
 Rajnath also held a meeting with local BJP leadership and held discussions about next general elections.
 
 
