AHMEDABAD:The 2018 New Year honours list released by the UK government includes  , the director of the London-based   (IoJ), who has been appointed an MBE — Member of the Order of the British Empire. It was a matter of double joy for the family. His father,  , the deputy chairman of IoJ, was conferred the same honour in 2016. They are perhaps the only father-and-son duo of the Indian diaspora in Britain to have received the honours.

 While Sanghrajka Sr. was recognized for services to the community and inter-faith work, his son was awarded for services to the Jain faith and education. Mehool Sanghrajka, who has been the director of the IoJ for 15 years, said: “I am humbled to receive this major honour. It adds responsibility, but at the same time it is a recognition for the years of work that the IoJ has done in establishing Jainism as a major world religion and building inter-faith relations.”
 
 
 
 
 Mehool Sanghrajka said the award would promote the institute’s activities. Mehool is also the executive director of  .org, which has digitized over 4,000 manuscripts at major British institutions. IoJ represents 32 Jain organizations in the UK and has been pivotal in establishing the Jain All-party Parliamentary Group and introducing the celebration of Ahimsa Day and   to the British Parliament.
 
 Sanghrajka Sr is a prominent Jain scholar who has represented Jainism on platforms such as Humanum, an inter-religious international colloquium organized by the Vatican. He said that he and Mehool have a unique history. “We studied together for a master’s in religious studies, we pursued and completed our PhD together and also worked as lecturers simultaneously,” he said. “It is a matter of great joy that we have got the recognition almost together.”
 
 Mehool said that it is important to connect with youth and to encourage them to play an active role in Jainism. “Many feel distanced and disconnected. The messages of our faith are totally in sync with what they seek — a more peaceful and tolerant world, responsibility for the environment, and love for animals wherever they live,” he said, adding that the IoJ’s inter-faith programmes spur dialogue among the youth.
 
 The New Year honours have feted a number of prominent NRIs including persons of Gujarati origin for their contribution to fields such as medicine, education, social service, science and technology, business, and charity.
 
 
