AHMEDABAD: Gujarat   came down heavily on the   ( ) for its failure to   near Ankleshwar and termed it a paper tiger.

 The HC has been hearing a case pertaining to industrial pollution caused by the industrial units in the GIDCs near Ankleshwar town. The industrial units had earlier approached the HC for relaxation of norms in treating the affluent. The court was concerned with the level of pollution that prevails in the area. 
 
 For the Union Ministry of Forest and Environment, assistant solicitor general Devang Vyas pointed out during previous hearings that the norms of treating affluent and discharge in the deep sea is a subject of experts to decide. But while the industrial units and the GIDC associations are claiming of performing their part of the duty, the pollution levels near Ankleshwar are not going down. 
 
 The bench headed by Justice MR Shah called all authorities for solution. It was pointed out to the court earlier that if the problem of ghost pipelines, through which industrial units discharge their untreated affluent, is not resolved, the Narmada and Amravati rivers nearby are likely to be affected in the future. 
 
 During the hearing on Tuesday, a bench headed by Justice M R Shah took notice that the ghost pipelines are still there and pulled up GPCB by saying that it appears a toothless tiger. “Is GPCB a monitoring body? Why are there no steps taken to curb pollution? Nobody is ready to take responsibility. All are shirking their responsibility when it comes to save mother earth,” the judges commented.
 
 The judges also said that if GPCB cannot perform its duty, let it be close down.
 
 For concrete plan to resolve the issue of pollution around Ankleshwar, the court appointed senior advocate Shalin Mehta as amicus curiae and asked him to conduct an inquiry into the problem of ghost pipelines and prevailing pollution levels. Mehta will conduct a meeting involving all stakeholders on April 28, find out the real picture and submit a report to the court.
 
 The court has posted further hearing on the issue in the first week of May.
 
 
