GURUGRAM: The city is set to get a   (UN) technology innovation laboratory which will work on promoting women entrepreneurship in the region. An MoU was signed between the state government IT department and   to build the laboratory at the   campus in Udyog Vihar 1.

 Now, the UN team is working on internal clearances and the laboratory is expected to start operations in 2018. “The UN innovation lab will focus on promotion of women entrepreneurs in the state and research in this regard would be done under two sub-heads — creating an ecosystem to support local women innovators and investing in technology startups by women,” said a senior official from the   IT department.
 
 He added that the scope of the lab, however, would not be restricted to women entrepreneurship only. It will work as a resource centre for delivery of and training for new innovation and technology tools to benefit all the UN member states.
 
 “The lab will help to develop tech-based pilot programmes to address various concerns of regions and countries and build information communication technology for meeting UN’s sustainable development goals,” said the official. 
 
 A few of the sustainable development goals enlisted for the Gurgaon lab include providing food security, developing sustainable agriculture practices, catering to health and well-being of all age groups, building safe, resilient and substantial cities and human settlements, combating climate change and its impacts, and building effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels to promote peaceful and inclusive societies. 
 
 It will also help to support the Aadhaar project in the state of Haryana. Two more such laboratories have been proposed in Kerala and Chattisgarh. 
 
 The upcoming project in Haryana has recently found mention in the department of industrial policy and promotion’s collection of best practices being followed by different states for supporting startups. It has been mentioned in a booklet released last week.
 
 The state government is, also, in the process of setting up a centre for Internet of Things in the same campus and a global start-up village is on the cards, too. Many of these projects might be kicked off in the run-up to the central government’s announcement of startup rankings of states, expected this summer.
 
 
