RGI Best Innovation Awards-2018 Level III were recently organised at   to promote research and innovation amongst students. 

 
 The competition received huge response from students of undergraduate, post graduate and doctorate researchers from all over the country. There were total 269 projects submitted by around 1000 students of 11 states, 41 cities and 42 institutes like National Institute of Technology Calicut. COEP Pune. Anna University Chennai and Rohtak University Delhi, This award was organized in three categories which included hardware, software and concept based projects and in three levels.
 
 At Level 1, projects were evaluated and shortlisted by Industry &a Academic gurus Shortlisted projects at Level 1 were selected for demonstration at Level -2. Level 2 was arranged at three zones such as Pune, Jalgaon and Nagpur. In all 93 projects were shortlisted at Level2 event for final round level3. RGI Innovation Award 2018 final round Level 3 organized on 24th March 2018 at G.H.Raisoni University, Saikheda (MP). The Program was inaugurated by the hands of Chief Guest Dr. Ajit Patankar, Advisor, Rajiv Gandhi Science and technology Commission, Govt. of Maharashtra and Ex Head Technology Transfer ; Collaboration Division, BARC in presence of Dr. Rajan Welukar Hon. Vice Chancellor of GHRU and Dr. Preeti Bajaj Director GHRCE. Chief Guest of the function Dr. Ajit Patankar has appreciated the efforts taken by GHR Labs and Research Centre in organizing such event which motivates the budding engineers and innovators.
 
 Further he advised all innovators to go ahead with their innovations till it incubates into enterprise. In all 93 were evaluated by the eminent judges such as Dr. A. M.
 Kuthe, VNIT, Nagpur, Smt. Pragati Gokhale, Deputy Director (Management and Systems), Mahatma Gandhi Institute for Rural Industrialization (MGIRI), A National Institute under Ministry of MSME, Govt of India, Dr. A. G. Keskar, VNIT, Nagpur, Dr. Urmila Shrawankar, GHRCE, Nagpur and Dr. Prabhat Sharma, VNIT, Nagpur.
 The first Prize goes to two projects, one from Pune Institute of Technology for the project “Doc2Latex” and other from HR Patel College, Shirpur for the project “Pregnancy Planning Kit”. Both projects awarded with cash prize of Rs.25,000 each. The secondprize again given to two projects, one from IIIT-Nagpur for the project “Ar Book: The Learnings Redefined” and other from GHRaisoni Academy Nagpur for the project “Design And Fabrication Of Flexible Door Opening”. Both projects awarded cash prize of Rs.15,000 each. The third prize given to two projects, one from GHRCE for the project “Design And Fabrication Of Automatic Chakli Maker” and other from GHRIET-Nagpur for the project “Solar Powered Cooling And Utility Umbrella”. Both projects awarded cash prize of Rs.10,000 each. Two projects, one from GHRCE and one
 from RC Patel Institute Shirpur were given consolation prize of cash Rs.2,000 each.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
