NEW DELHI: Expressing concerns over the reports of Facebook data being used to interfere in the US elections, company CEO   said that his organization is committed to upholding the integrity of elections around the world, 
  

 
  In an interview to CNN, Zuckerberg acknowledged that there have been attempts by nation-states like Russia to interfere in elections in the United States and spelled out measures taken by his organization to quell these attempts.
 
  
  
 
  "And we have a responsibility to do this, not only for the 2018 midterms in the U.S., which are going to be a huge deal this year and that's just a huge focus for us but there's a big election in India this year, there's a big election in Brazil, there are big elections around the world, and you can bet that we are really committed to doing everything that we need to make sure that the integrity of those elections on Facebook is secured," he said in the interview to the US-based news channel.
 
 The reference to the Indian elections came in response to a question on the actions taken by the social media giant to curb the influence of external elements in the election processes of various countries.
 
 Zuckerberg elaborated on the steps taken by his organization, such as the use of Artificial Intelligence tools, to identify "russian bots" who were trying to influence the outcome of French elections held in 2017 and election for the senate seat in Alabama.
 
 Yesterday, the Facebook CEO had admitted mistakes in handling the private data of the users on his platform and outlined steps to protect it.
 
 In a Facebook post, Zuckerberg said it will ban developers who don't agree to an audit. An app's developer will no longer have access to data from people who haven't used that app in three months. Data will also be generally limited to usernames, profile photos and email, unless the developer signs a contract with Facebook and gets user approval.
 
 
 
 Zuckerberg has been facing severe criticism following allegations that political consultancy   improperly accessed Facebook users' information to build profiles on American voters which were later used to help elect U.S. President Donald Trump in 2016.
 
