KOLHAPUR: Twelve members of a Pune family, including a ninemonth-old boy, were killed and three others injured when the minibus in which they were travelling plunged into the Panchganga river in   on Friday night. The bus driver also died in the accident.

 The accident took place on the 140-year-old   in Kolhapur when the family was returning from Ganpatipule after visiting the famous Ganapati temple there. The bus driver allegedly lost control of the vehicle on the two-way bridge.
 
 According to the police, the bus had almost reached the end of the   when it suddenly swerved to the right and crashed into the stone railing. The old structure broke and the bus fell into the river, 69 feet below.
 
 The minibus hit the rocky river bank, overturned and was half submerged in the water. Sources said most of the deceased died due to head and other injuries. All of them were residents of Pirangut and Balewadi in Pune.
 
 The dead have been identified as Santosh Babanrao Warkhade (45), his daughters Gauri (16) and Dnyaneshwari (14); Sachin Kedari (34), his wife Nilam (28), their daughter Sanskriti (8) and son Saanidha (9 months); Bhawana Kedari (35), her son Sahil (14) and daughter Shravani (11); Chhaya Dinesh Nangre (41) and her son Pratik (14).
 
 
 
 
 The driver of the minibus, Mahesh Laxman Kuchekar (45), a resident of Hinjewadi in Pune also died in the accident.
 
 Manda Bharat Kedari (50), her daughter Manisha Santosh Warkhade (38) and her granddaughter Prajakta Dinesh Nangre (18) survived, and were moved to Pune for further treatment.
 
 Superintendent of police   said, “All the deceased and those injured are relatives. They had started their journey from Hinjewadi around 6 am on Friday for Ganpatipule in Ratnagiri district. They were returning to Pune after taking darshan at Ganpatipule when they met with the accident on Friday night.”
 
 “When the minibus was about the cross the Shivaji bridge, the driver must have lost control of the vehicle. The bus rammed into the railing and fell into the river. The front end of the bus hit the rocky patch on the river bank, overturned and fell in the water.”
 
 The police rushed to the spot as soon as they received information of the accident. The victims were taken to the Chhatrapati   (CPR) civil hospital, where the authorities declared all, except three, brought dead, he said.
 
 After the accident, traffic on the bridge was halted from both sides till Saturday morning. Later, only motorcycles were allowed to cross the bridge till Saturday evening. “Other vehicles were diverted through different routes connecting Kolhapur and Panhala to avoid any inconvenience,” he said.
 
 DRamanand, dean of the CPR civil hospital, said the bodies were handed over to the relatives on Saturday morning. “Three injured women were discharged from the hospital after their relatives stated that they would admit them in a private hospital in Pune for further treatment.”
 
 He added that the hospital had preserved the viscera of the driver. “It will be sent to the forensic laboratory for chemical analysis to find out if he was under the influence of alcohol,” Ramanand said.
 
 Dilip Jadhav, inspector in-charge of the Karveer police station, said a case has been registered against the driver under several sections of the Indian Penal Code.
 
