NEW DELHI: Two commanders of   have been grounded for allowing a woman friend to fly in the cockpit of a Goa-Mumbai flight. She remained in the cockpit till the flight landed in Mumbai some months back.

 
 However the two   did not spend their entire grounding period, well, on ground. The airline asked them to resume flying in the period when they were not supposed to do so following a Directorate General of Civil Aviation ( ) order suspending their licences for the lady-in-cockpit episode. One of them even operated a flight in the license suspension period. 
 
 Accepting this, a Jet spokesman said: “An administrative oversight led to a  , currently off flying duties, being assigned a training flight after completing a ground training session. The company has proactively reported the event to the DGCA and has already fixed the gap in the assignment process, to prevent its reoccurrence, following an internal investigation.”
 
 This unprecedented chain reaction — violation; followed by punishment; subsequent violation of punishment and then again punishment — began on January 8, 2018, when the two pilots were operating 9W 762 from Goa to Mumbai. They reportedly let a lady friend of one of them travel in the cockpit till the flight landed in Mumbai. 
 
 The airline got to know of this violation later and grounded them for a month.
 
 Just when the grounding period of the pilots was getting over, the DGCA on March 19, 2018, suspended their flying licences for a month. “Captain(s) permitted the entry of unauthorised person into cockpit of flight number 9W 762. Hence compromised with the safety of aircraft operations and its occupants…. privileges of pilot licences are hereby suspended in public interest for one month,” DGCA’s joint DG Lalit Gupta wrote to Jet on March 19.
 
 While the DGCA had suspended the pilots’ licences for a month, a Jet official somehow instructed that these pilots be utilised for flying the very next day (March 20). The two then went through simulator training and one of them even operated a flight on March 27.
 
 Soon Jet realised its mistake. On March 29, the airline’s VP (flight operations) Captain Manoj Bhambhani wrote to DGCA’s chief flight operations inspector Captain Atul Chandra about the “violation of DGCA suspension order”. Admitting that a Jet official somehow issued an order for the two pilots to fly again, Bhambhani wrote: “it seems like he has gone ahead and given instructions without consulting me which has caused contravention of a DGCA order. I have initiated an immediate investigation into the matter and will inform your office of the action taken… and also concrete steps taken internally to prevent such a recurrence. (the two pilots) will continue to serve the suspension as directed by your office.”
 
 
 
