PATNA: JD (U) will hold a meeting of its block level workers at CM Nitish Kumar’s 1, Anne Marg residence on January 7. The meeting is part of training of JD (U) workers at block level in different districts over the next two months.

 The meeting will be chaired by JD (U) national general secretary (organisation) and   member R C P Singh and attended by several senior functionaries, including state president of the party  .
 
 Earlier, a 22-day training session of JD (U) was held in Patna in December. The master trainers identified in the training session will be briefed on further training of block level workers in the upcoming meeting.
 
 “Altogether 600 block level workers of the party will participate in Sunday’s meeting. Deliberations will be held on further training across all 534 blocks in the state over the next two months. Batches of around 60 master trainers will be made for training on different subjects, such as party ideology, election management, development and leadership skills and social media,” said state president of JD (U)’s training cell Sunil Kumar. He added the block level trainings will be held on every Saturday and Sunday in different districts.
 
 JD (U), which parted ways with RJD in July and returned to the NDA fold, is of late putting emphasis on strengthening the organisation at the grassroots level. Like its ally  , the JD (U) intends to put greater emphasis on booth level management in the coming months. The party also wants to expand its base on social media in order to reach out to larger electorate.
 
 Around 23,800 booth level agents (BLAs) of the party were briefed on such strategies in JD (U)’s 22-day training programme in Patna from December 1 to 22 last year. Thirty BLAs from each assembly constituency were invited for the state level training programme in the state capital. The BLAs will work as master trainers in their respective assembly constituencies and impart similar training to the rest of BLAs in their constituency. 
 
 
