CHANDIGARH: While driving around the city these days, you are sure to notice the ongoing work for setting up cycle tracks near the roundabouts and connecting them through the dividers. However, you are also bound to notice that a number of dividers and roundabouts across the city in various sectors are lying broken. 

 On one hand, where some of the roundabouts are seen to be shattered in more than one location, the dividers are usually seen to broken at their curb or at the ends.
 
 The conditions of the dividing road of Sector 41 and Sector 42, the roundabout of Sector 37 and Sector 38, the PGIMER roundabout, the road divider behind the lake leading to   village along with the roundabout leading to the IT Park road are equally miserable. "I have noticed that many of the the road dividers in   have a similar condition. I wonder what is the reason behind this. They look so shabby and unhygienic and directly impact the beauty of the city," said  , a passersby, who lives in Mohali.
 
 As a result, in many places, the broken fragments of the concrete have started rolling in thick concentration on the roadsides, falling in the way of cars and other vehicles posing threats of accidents. At various other parts of the city, the broken pieces of concrete have been left untouched, piled up on one another.
 
 "I am a jogger. I jog near the fire-station in Sector 38, just next to the roundabout. In the last four months, this roundabout has been repaired at least three times already," said  , a resident of Sector 38. 
 
 However, when asked, traffic cops said this is the result of speeding vehicles driven by people in inebriated state in the middle of the night. "They drive fast and hit the dividers, pavements and roundabouts, leaving them broken. It is a regular affair," said  , a traffic cop.
 
 Many other people also blamed heavy motor vehicles like trucks and bike riders as well, who end up slipping or running into dividers, every now and then.
 
 "If you notice closely, numerous roundabouts in the city have been repaired all over again and the cemented patch can be easily identified from the rest of the paint. However, we have also made these dividers and roundabouts slightly less harder than rest of the concrete structures, so that if a car or a two-wheeler smash into them, they take the impact of the collision. A low amount of cement is also used around the curbs of the divider to join them together. It helps," said senior engineer at Chandigarh municipal corporation, N P Sharma.
 
 According to SP traffic, Chandigarh,  , the permissible speed limit for light and heavy motor vehicles in Chandigarh is 60 kmph, whereas people generally drive their cars at 80 kmph or even more. 
 
 "They do not know. The speed limit is 45 kmph for auto-rickshaws and for any vehicle it is 30kmph within 80 metres of a roundabout."
 
 " We need to educate people about it in the city. Moreover, we have also been talking to the engineering department of UT administration about increasing the visibility of dividers and roundabouts, which is specially needed during this time when the visibility is low due to fog. We have asked for attaching blinkers, on all the four sides of a roundabout and for possibly attaching reflective tape and reflectors at the ends of the dividers. Moreover, the streetlights refurbished now, which will help in visibility as well," he said.
 
 
