Actress  , known for her work in films like 'Mardaani' and 'Secret Superstar', staged the play ' ' in the city recently. Mona, despite repeated requests to the media and the public to switch off their mobile phones and not click pictures during her mono-act, was in for a rude shock when people started clicking pictures with the camera flash on. Getting distracted during her performance with the continuous clicking sound of the cameras, the actress, losing her cool, stopped the play in between and asked the photographers to stop clicking pictures. Commenting on the basic etiquettes of people while coming to watch a play, the actress said, "I regret allowing disruptive members of the audience to disturb me. I know it reduces the impact of the play for those who were actually watching it. Apart from the fact that it is simply bad manners to click pictures during a live performance, it also means that they themselves miss out on parts of the play and disturb others in the audience as well as the actors." And as if this was not all, later, a mobile phone also started ringing during the play. 
 Mona added, "The sound and light from the incessant photography was very disturbing to everyone in the auditorium. I thought that Lucknow is a city of culture and it values culture too. But such kind of things are very disheartening. On the hindsight, I loved the audience who enjoyed the play."
 
  
  Mona in a still from the play 'Ek Madhav Baug' (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) 
 
 And it’s not the first time that theatre actors or directors have complained about Lucknowites lack of care in maintaining silence during plays. Well-known actors, including   and Lubna Salim, in the past, have stopped their play in between because someone in the audience didn't put their mobile phone on silent mode. 
 Commenting on this, actor-director  , who has staged and acted in several plays in Lucknow says, "Lucknow mein, I have noticed that if a few people don’t find the play interesting, they tend to switch on their mobile phones. They don't realize that the light of the phone screen is so strong that it actually makes the person sitting behind blind and they are not able to see anything. In fact, there have been times when I have heard mobile phones ring in between my performance. It’s very disturbing for actors on stage because it breaks their concentration and disrupts the flow of the play and the acting," says Kaul, who’s acted in films like 'City Lights' and 'Jolly LLB 2'.
 Even during his last play ' ' staged in the city in January, Kaul had made repeated requests to the audience to switch off their phones, yet a phone had started ringing in between the play. "I feel that if you are giving your time to a play, then you should concentrate on it rather than spending time on your mobile phones. I actually beg and plead with the audience to switch off their mobile phones so that the actors don't face any disturbance during their performance."
 Agreeing with Kaul is Lucknowite   Husain who has staged several plays in the city. Faisal believes that making videos during plays is infringing upon the intellectual property rights of the director. "It is very rude and against all norms of watching a show when people click pictures and record it. It so happened during my last play 'Doc In The Dock', when suddenly a phone rang in between the play despite of us requesting people to switch off their phones. We still had to face that problem. It was a live show and suddenly the ringing of the phone affected the actors as well as it caused disturbance for those who were interested in watching it. It is actually traumatising for the actors who have read a long script to enact the play and if you disturb their act, everything is finished. That synchronisation is lost," opines Faisal.
 Similar situations have been faced by  , founder of Repertwahr theatre festival. He recalls an experience of staging a play in Lucknow, when the ringing of a mobile phone had created a problem for the actors and the audience. "I remember when I staged the play ' ' in 2009, suddenly in between the play, a mobile phone rang and we had to stop the play in between. The actors who were so thorough with the lines had forgotten them! The audience doesn't realise it but as actors and directors, we know that it is very difficult to get back that rhythm again once it is lost," He adds, "I have staged my play 'Muktidhaam' in six cities and my experience in the other cities has in a way changed my mindset that Lucknow is a very culturally rich city. The continuous camera flashes and mobile phones ringing disturbs the atmosphere, which people just don't realise. People lack theatre ethics in Lucknow," says Rai. 
 — Prachi Arya
 
 
