PATNA: The   faction of JD(U) will launch a new party, ‘Loktantrik Janata Dal’, on February 20. 

 National general secretary of   faction of JD(U), Arun Srivastava, said on Monday that three names — Samajwadi Janata Dal, Apna   and Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) — were submitted before the Election Commission (EC) for its approval. He said the EC was most likely to approve the name of Loktantrik Janata Dal in a day or two.
 
 Shrivastava said the new party would be launched at   in New Delhi on February 20 with massive participation of around 10,000 delegates from all parts of the country, including Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh.
 
 He said a case was pending before the Delhi high court in connection with the claim by the Sharad faction on the JD(U) after Election Commission had rejected its pleas for granting the party’s ‘arrow’ symbol.
 
 On December 12 last year, Sharad had moved the Delhi high court seeking setting aside of his disqualification from the Rajya Sabha. Sharad pleaded before the court that he was not given any chance by the Rajya Sabha Chairman to explain his position before passing an order against him. Sharad, along with another JD(U) Rajya Sabha member Ali Anwar, was disqualified from the Upper House of Parliament on December 4. He had joined hands with the opposition parties after JD(U) president and Bihar CM   dumped the grand alliance with the RJD and the Congress in Bihar and tied up with the   in July this year.
 
 Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu had agreed to the JD(U)’s contention that Sharad and Anwar had “voluntarily given up” their membership by defying the party’s directives and attending events organized by the opposition parties. Bihar’s ruling JD(U) had sought their disqualification on the grounds that they had attended a rally of opposition parties in Patna in violation of the party’s directive. Sharad was elected to the Rajya Sabha in 2016 and his term was scheduled to end in 2022. Anwar’s term was to expire in April this year.
 
 
