HYDERABAD: Taking the process of establishing the high court in AP's   forward, the Hyderabad HC has constituted three committees comprising judges who will address various issues related to the division of the high court. 

 The first is the building committee headed by senior judge Justice V Ramasubramanian and includes Justice C  , Justice  , Justice T   and Justice M   as members. The building committee will soon visit Vijayawada and inspect the buildings proposed by the AP government and check their suitability for housing high court in all respects. 
 
 The AP government wants one of the buildings to be approved by the judges so that it can start the process of modifying it in tune with the needs of the judiciary.
 
 Andhra Pradesh wants its high court to start functioning from such a building from June 2, 2018 till a modern building for the HC is constructed in Justice City of Amaravati.
 
 The second committee will address the issue of staff bifurcation and is headed by Acting Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and has Justice Suresh Kumar Kait, Justice A Rajashekher Reddy, Justice A Shankar Narayana and Justice Shameem Akther as its members. The staff bifurcation committee will put in its efforts to sort out the issues that are likely to arise from the division of employees.
 
 The third is the digitisation committee, which is headed by Justice CV Nagarjuna Reddy and has Justice Sanjay Kumar, Justice P Naveen Rao, Justice S V Bhatt and Justice U Durga Prasad Rao as members. Though there is an existing committee looking after computerisation and e-Courts projects, the Digitisation Committee has been set up exclusively with the objective of digitising the huge court files pertaining to AP so that the division of the HC happens faster without any hitch.
 
 Meanwhile, several lawyers from AP currently practising at the common high court, including the AP High Court Advocates Association, have been expressing apprehensions that the process of shifting the HC to AP is being hastened without taking the Bar into confidence and without sparing a thought for the advocates who need the minimal facilities to function at the proposed HC building or area.
 
 It may be recalled AP chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu wrote to Hyderabad High Court’s acting CJ Ramesh Ranganathan requesting him and all the judges to inspect and approve one of the proposed buildings in the capital region area and enable them to have their HC in their territory by June 2018. Later, a full court meet of HC decided to form committees to oversee the process of  
 
