HYDERABAD: Amid rising number of road crashes, a city-based lab has designed a high-tech solution—a smart helmet that will enable riders to ensure that emergency contacts are informed immediately of a crash and thus improve the guarantee of emergency response, and treatment within the ‘golden hour’.

 The high-quality and vintage-inspired designed helmet has been fitted with high-tech sensors and features including invisible bluetooth integration, an in-built Crash Detection system and a SOS-beacon.
 
 "The smart helmet gives riders access to solutions most likely to be used while riding—phone calls, music, maps navigation, intelligent personal assistant—all while ensuring minimal distraction. The crash detection and response system: reduces the risk of missing the “Golden Hour” for medical care when a rider meets with a critical accident by ensuring that emergency contacts are informed immediately and are provided with the GPS location of the crash as well important crash and health information that could assist in delivering emergency medical services. Weighing only 1,270 gms, it also happens to be the lightest smart helmet in the world,” said Anirudha Surabhi, designer of   Helmets— a product of Quintessential Design.
 
 Quintessential Design (Quin), is a Minneapolis-based innovations lab which has its research and design lab base in   in Hyderabad. The sensors integrated with the helmet detect any force above 100G as a crash and trigger a Crash Alert signal—that can be switched off manually within 10 seconds, failing which it will send the message for help. When facing an emergency other than a crash, riders can also manually trigger an SOS beacon to call for help on-the-move. This feature was developed in particular for areas where crime and harassment against women are high.
 
 Founded in 2017, and having just released their first line of three helmet models, the project has raised $65,774 through an online global crowdfunding platform called Kickstarter. The campaign was designed with a goal of $30,000. According to its makers, the smart helmet will be out in the market in a few months, after which people can purchase them from stores with a price range of Rs12,000 to Rs28,000, depending on the helmet model. 
 
 “Typically, such helmets with carbon fibre material and technology are sold for anywhere above Rs60,000 while ours is currently priced at Rs28,000. Those who wish to purchase these helmets can do so on our Kickstarter page for exclusive campaign-only discounts,” Surabhi added.
 
 
