CHENNAI: Not long before, realtors would market residential complexes as quiet corners of comfort within the city. Eked out of farmlands or plots adjoining dry lakes — and sometimes the lake itself — the ideal neighbourhood, claimed the ads, would have tree-lined lanes leading to tranquil tenements. But that was then for the city’s residential areas and silence zones have been among the noisiest of late. According to the   ( ), in 2017 Chennai had the maximum night sound levels followed by Lucknow, Kolkata and Mumbai.

 As part of the National Noise Monitoring Network, 10 areas in the city were classified under silence zones, residential, commercial and industrial areas, and monitored using noise monitoring stations. Data shows that in 2017, noise levels showed a marginal increase in several of these areas during the daytime, but huge deviations from the standard levels set for night time were recorded in almost all areas, including two silence zones.
 
 For instance, in commercial areas, noise levels should not exceed 65 decibels between 6am and 10pm, and 55 decibels from 10pm to 6am. For silence zones, the limit is 50 decibels during the day and 40 decibels at night. Areas around hospitals, schools and courts should ideally be silence zones and there should be no noise within a 100m radius. But around the Eye Hospital in Egmore, the average sound levels recorded were 70 decibels during the day and 64 decibels at night (see table).
 
  
  
 
 Commercial areas like T Nagar, Perambur, Pallikaranai and   recorded high levels of sound at night. Pallikaranai recorded the highest average levels of noise in the day and at night in 2017 with readings of 79 and 76 decibels.
 
 The three residential areas -- Triplicane, Velachery and Sowcarpet -- showed a high to very high spike in noise levels at night, whereas Guindy, an industrial area, recorded a massive dip. Officials from the   Pollution Control Board ( ) said the relocation of most big industries from   to the outskirts could be a reason for the falling noise levels in Guindy.
 
 TNPCB officials said although they cannot control noise pollution, they sensitised the public. “Noise levels are monitored by CPCB, we aid them in the process. Controlling noise is the responsibility of the police deprtment,” said a TNPCB official.
 
 Activists, however, said TNPCB can take steps to mitigate pollution. “The first point to tackle noise pollution is to reduce private vehicles on the roads, then strengthen and promote public transport. There should be more crackdown on noisy celebrations during night and industries should be moved out of the city limits,” said G Sundarrajan, of Poovulagin Nanbargal.
 
 
