CHENNAI: The CBSE ClassXII Physics paper on Wednesday seemed to have taken students by surprise, with many saying the three mark questions, worth more than 30 marks, were twisted and more difficult than the five-mark questions. “Because we got stuck with three mark questions, we found the paper time consuming. There were 12 questions in the three mark category,” said Saraswati, a student.

 DAV Velachery principal Minoo Agarwal said even some top students found section Cof three-mark questions difficult. “Several students came up tous and saidthefive-mark questions were easy while the three mark ones were difficult. There was also one question from the practical portion that was challenging for some students,” she said, adding that teachers too gave the same feedback.
 
 A student of Vidya Mandir said the three-mark questions involved lot of numericals. “A lot of these questions were HOTS (Higher Order Thinking Skills) questions that are application-oriented onessoitwas tricky,” he said.
 
 Rohan, another student, felt this year’s paper was significantly tougher compared to the last few years while Adi of St John’s School said barring the three mark questions, the paper wasn’t difficult.
 
 Vidya Mandir principal Shobha Raman said many students didn’t even want to discussit. “... At least 20 marks out of the total 70 comprised tricky questions. Even a few one and two mark questions, they had to think and write and was not as straightforward as the five mark questions,” she said. Rajshekhar Ratrey of coaching platform Toppr.com said questions on optics were difficult. “The overall paper was moderate. According to students, paper was more logical having reasoning questions and conceptual understanding was necessary to answer. Almost 4-5 questions were similar from last year’s paper,” he said.
 
 A few students complainedof having had only a day’s break after English, with some saying they required at least three days ahead of the physics paper. No matter how much leave we may get, one day is not sufficient to revise 15 chapters just before the exam, saidone student.
 
 “Being a core subject, the timetable could have been planned better to give students more time,” said Aravind, a parent.
 
