 There is good and bad news for   fans.
 
  Spanish striker Ferran Corominas has reached an agreement with FC Goa that will keep him at the Goan franchise for at least another year but he would have to do without his strike partner  .
  
  According to club sources, while Corominas has extended his stay at the club, Lanzarote is on his way out.
  
  “Goa has reached an agreement with Coro. It was not difficult negotiating since he loved the club, his family had no problems staying here too. The club had to give him a substantial hike but that was entirely deserving,” said a source.
  
  Coro arrived at FC Goa last season from Cyprus for $185,000 (approx. Rs 1.20 crore) and proved to be worth every penny, scoring 18 goals in as many matches in the Indian Super League ( ) to win the Golden Boot.
  
  Coro had big offers from several franchises but the most persistent was FC Pune City, who were keen on an attacking trio of Marcelinho, Emiliano Alfaro and Coro for next season. The first-time semifinalists were willing to make Coro the best-paid player in the league and offered him more than what Bengaluru FC paid their Venezuelan striker Miku ($499,930).
  
  Much of Coro’s success in the ISL was down to his superb understanding with fellow Spaniard Manuel Lanzarote, who scored 13 goals and had six assists.
  
  The Spanish forward was Goa’s best-paid player this season with an annual contract of $295,000 (approx. Rs 1.91 crore) and had the option of extending his contract by another year, on his terms. Lanzarote, however, has informed the franchise that he will not exercise his right to extend the deal and is instead listening to offers from other franchises.
  
  Crucially, Lanzarote did not return to India for the season-ending Super Cup.
  
  “Goa does not have the budget to splash on Coro and Lanza together for another season. Coro has already been handed a substantial hike and ISL’s salary cap for foreign signings mean they cannot pay Lanzarote a similar amount,” said another source.
  
  According to the source, Lanzarote has appointed a representative in Goa to speak with other Indian clubs with former champions ATK ahead of the queue to secure his signature.
  
  Meanwhile, FC Goa and coach Sergio Lobera remain confident that they can find an equally competent, or better replacement. The Spanish coach is understood to have identified a few targets, including a player who trained under him in the past and comes with a proven track of record of performing at a high level.
