NAGPUR: A spate of   on Saturday left at least five persons injured and several vehicles on the roads damaged, as goons went berserk at different places.

 Street fights erupted at three places leading to registration of offences of rioting and assaults at Gittikhadan, Tehsil and Pachpaoli police stations. At Ajni, goons attacked a mother-daughter duo in an attempt to vacant the premises. In the follow-up actions, police nabbed some of the culprits booked in four offences.
 
 Eighteen-year-old Mohd   was seriously injured after being attacked by Akash   (19) and Pranav Ninawe (18) in broad daylight on Vaishali Nagar Cement road. Potbhare and Ninawe assaulted Menda with wooden and iron rods until he collapsed. The two fled the place, but were later nabbed by the Pachpaoli police where an offence was registered against them.
 
 In another incident at   chowk, Shiva Sahare was thrashed by local shopkeepers and traders identified as Golu, Tannu, Niki, Naushad and Sarwar, over an ongoing enmity. Sahare, who had criminal records against him, was chased by the culprits but he managed to give them a slip.
 
 The accused targeted the vehicles plying on the roads and damaged a few in anger. It’s learnt that some goons from Sahare’s locality had been troubling the local traders. They would also create ruckus and fight with each other during business hours causing losses, which aggravated the situation. Gittikhadan police have arrested the shopkeepers after registering an offence against them.
 
 In a separate incident at   chowk, four persons were injured and at least an equal number of vehicles damaged when a group attacked two persons. Six persons attacked Vinod Gadikar and his friend Yogesh   over an old enmity. It’s learnt that Wakodikar was earlier thrashed by one of the accused, Ganesh Bokde, after which the scuffle was brought to an end by others.
 
 Later, Bokde and his gang, which included former murder accused Akshay Nimje and Nishant Gaur, turned their wrath on Gadikar and Wakodikar. As Bokde’s gang started pelting stones on the road, Deepak Bodhkar and Mukunda Mendekar were injured in the ensuing chaos.
 
 In yet another incident, almost half a dozen goons ransacked the residence of Prabha Netam at Gajanan Nagar threatening her to vacate the place. An offence was registered at Ajni police station.
 
 
