BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh chief minister   on Monday gave a return gift to the poor during his 59th birthday celebrations by announcing a grant of Rs 12,000 on birth of a child and Rs 2 lakh through insurance on the loss of life in a poor family. Chouhan also assured that his government's decision to provide electricity at Rs 200 per month will be implemented soon.

 "I vow to serve the poor and work for the state's development on this day. The BJP government is working hard to help poor families easy and has decided that woman labourers who are on their sixth month of pregnancy will get Rs 4000 for nutritious food and Rs 12000 at the time of delivery. The government would also compensate loss of life in poor family through financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh", announced Chouhan while celebrating his birthday with labourers and senior citizens.
 
 He said that government will provide Rs 5,000 for the last rites of poor and compensate death in the family through insurance by providing Rs 2 lakh to people who die due to natural death before 60 years of age. Chouhan also assured that relief in the electricity tariff will be provided soon. "Poor families will now be free from the hassle of the electricity meter and will have to pay only Rs 200 per month for electricity charges. An official declaration in the regard will be made soon", he said. 
 
 The chief minister also met children at Bal Niketan orphanage and celebrated his birthday by cutting a cake. He reiterated his commitment to bear the expenses on education and upkeep of children. Chouhan, who was accompanied by his wife Sadhna Singh, also sang a song to mark the occasion.
 
 Moreover, the chief minister spent time at an old age home, `Asra' and announced facilities for the inmates. The state BJP also celebrated Chouhan's birthday as `Sewa Divas' (service day) in all 833 divisions of 56 organisational districts and organised food camps along with blood donation and health check-up camps to mark the day. 
 
 Several BJP MLAs and workers reached the chief minister's residence to greet him. Chouhan also received birthday greetings from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP president Amit Shah.
 
 
