MUMBAI: While chief minister Devendra   is expecting Rs 10 lakh crore investment during the three-day Magnetic  : Convergence 2018 Summit, the state has lost an investment of Rs 59,260 crore following withdrawal-closure of 80  .

 A top bureaucrat confirmed to TOI on Friday that in view of ups and downs in the market, out of the 147 SEZs approved by the Centre for the state, 80 proposals have either been withdrawn or de-notified. “The central government brought in the SEZ policy in 2001 for promotion of industrial development, particularly for attracting direct foreign investment, exports and generate employment. Subsequently in 2005, the Centre promulgated the SEZ Act to ensure there were no legal hurdles for implementing the new industrial policy for promotion of SEZs. Unfortunately, most of the SEZs in the state failed to take off owing to uncertainty in markets,’’ he said.
 
 The bureaucrat said that out of the remaining 67 SEZs, only 28, with an investment of Rs 35,023 crore, have gone into production. It was found that 593 units in 27 SEZs have become functional, while the developers associated with 21 SEZs are struggling to secure lands, clearances from state and central government agencies as well as negotiating with foreign investors.
 
 “Maharashtra’s progress in SEZs appears to be dismal. While the policy was brought in 2001, so far, very few units have actually gone into production. We were expecting the SEZ policy to gain momentum after Fadnavis took over the reins, but it appears that the NDA government will soon wind up the SEZs. It has already come out with a sunset clause, under which no SEZ will be permitted after March 31, 2017 in order to be eligible for direct tax benefits,’’ he said.
 
 The bureaucrat said that one of the reasons for the largescale withdrawal of SEZs was the introduction of the goods and service tax. “Even before the introduction of  , several developers and promoters informed the board of approvals that in view of uncertainty over post-GST situation, they are withdrawing their proposals. Despite such a situation, no stringent measures were taken to persuade the developers,” he said.
 
 Further, the bureaucrat said that more than 17 years after the introduction of SEZ policy, basic laws were not amended for the smooth functioning of SEZs. “It was proposed to grant set-off in certain taxes, ensure that labour laws were not applicable in SEZs, but it appears no measures were taken to bring in reforms in the legal sector,’’ he said.
 
 
