CHENNAI:The state health department has misrepresented associate   as professors for five years in order to renew ‘permission’ for continuing MBBS courses in many of its 22 medical colleges. The false representation was made to the   despite 50% vacancies in professor posts. 

 The issue came to light, on Friday when the Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association launched a “non-cooperation” protest ahead of inspections by the  .
 
 Association president   announced on Friday that government doctors will boycott the upcoming inspections in government colleges if the directorate of medical education forces associate professors to pose as professors for the day. More than 500 of the 1,020 professor posts in the 22 medical colleges are vacant, he said.
 
 This serious shortage of faculty may lead to de-recognition of colleges during the MCI inspection in the ensuing months. “Every year, assistant and associate professors are posted as ‘professors’ in these colleges for a day. They appear before the inspection committee and return to their regular posts a day after inspection,” Dr Senthil said. In many medical colleges, students have no professors in several departments. “This fraudulence won’t happen again even it means that the state medical colleges have to lose recognition,” he said.
 
 Director of medical education Dr A Edwin Joe admitted that the process for promotions was halted five years ago when the government found anomalies in several promotions. 
 
 “We have now prepared a revised list. It has sent to the health department for approval. We will fill the all posts by month-end,” he said. 
 
 In 2015, after former chief minister J Jayalalithaa announcement in the assembly promotion orders were issued orders for 157 doctors. No promotion orders were issued after that. 
 
 The association’s demand to speed up the promotion orders is pending with the government for the last five years. In 2017, when association told the government doctors would boycott inspections, the government promised to work on resignations. That did not happen, said association secretary Dr N Ravishankar. “The shortage is high in newer colleges of rural areas. We have adequate number of qualified doctors, but the state has not promoted them as professors. In most cases, doctors’ salary doesn’t even change much despite promotion. More than 200 associate professors who have worked for nearly 25 years retired without promotions,” he said.
 
 
