JAIPUR: Within weeks after completing the Swachh Survekshan 2018 survey, the city’s sanitation woes have come back to haunt the residents.

 Following   (JMC)’s payment issues with the contractor, the door-to-door   vehicles have become irregular and are not visiting many areas in the city. This has forced people to dump garbage along roadsides.
 
 
 The JMC had earlier decided to remove a total of 3,500 depots from colonies to promote the habit dumping garbage into collection vehicles.
 
 Sumgala Sharma, a resident  , said, “Earlier, there was a depot in front of my house. It was removed by the JMC. Now, people are throwing garbage and it is spilling all over the road. The JMC vehicles are not coming to collect the garbage.”
 
 The situation remains the same in locations that still have depots. Manish Kumar, a resident of Tonk Phatak area, said, “The depots are flooded with garbage as the JMC has stopped lifting trash after giving the responsibility to a firm. Neither the firm nor JMC is collecting garbage. While the JMC will charge for this facility, it has failed to provide the service.”
 
 Residents allege that staff appointed by the private firm is not collecting garbage from houses in designated wards.
 
 Sources in the department said that the JMC and the contractor have locked horns over payment. The JMC is not making timely payments. As a result, the contractor has suspended the service. “Against dues of Rs 73 crore, the JMC has, so far, has Rs 33 crore. This is why there’s a problem with garbage collection.”
 
 It has been alleged that before the introduction of doorto-door garbage collection, nearly 1,400 metric tonnes of garbage was collected from the city every day. Now, the JMC is paying to collect 1,700 metric tonnes daily, but the garbage is still being littered on the roads.
 
 Rubbishing the allegations, Tanaji, project head, BVG, the company which is collecting garbage, said, “These allegations are baseless. The tenders were floated in 2015. At that time, nearly 1,340 metric tonnes of garbage was produced per day. On an average, every year there’s an increase of 5 %. The firm is lifting almost 1,750 metric tonnes per day. There is a wide gap and the firm has to spend money from it’s pocket.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
