BATHINDA: The construction work of Rs 925-crore All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Bathinda is likely to be given to one of the three companies shortlisted within a week. According to Union health ministry officials, the technical bids for the project were submitted on May 2. After the financial bids on May 9, the scrutiny process is also almost over.

 The infrastructure development company —   (HITES), the executing agency for Union ministry of health and family welfare, has shortlisted three companies namely L&T, Shapoorji Pallonji and   for the construction work of AIIMS.
 
 “The work would be carried out on engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) basis. One of the three shortlisted companies is expected to be allotted the work within a week’s time,” an official of HLL has told TOI requesting anonymity.
 
 The   will be a 750-bedded premier medical institute. It is going to have 10 specialty departments and 11 super speciality departments. It will have 16 ultra- modern state-of-the-art operation theatres.
 
 The hospital will also have a 100-seat medical college and a 60-seat nursing college. A total of 177 acres of land was transferred for the construction of the AIIMS.
 
 Prime Minister  , while laying the stone on November 25, 2016, had claimed that the construction of the institute would be completed by early 2020. The foundation stone was laid during the SAD-BJP regime in the state and completion of the project has already become an issue in the state politics.
 
 Politics on
 
 Though the construction work is yet to be allotted by the Union health and family welfare ministry, Union minister   Kaur Badal has accused the Punjab government of not providing certain clearances and thus delaying the construction work of the institute.
 
 Harsimrat held a meeting with local officials including deputy commissioner and commissioner Bathinda MC on Saturday and directed them to ensure all clearances. Later, the Bathinda MP accused Punjab finance minister and her husband’s estranged cousin Manpreet Badal for creating a hindrance. When contacted, Manpreet, who is an MLA from Bathinda, said, “She is unnecessarily politicising the issue whereas the state government has very limited role in the execution of works. The delay is only on the part of the Union government.”
 
 
