SURAT: City-based textile traders have teamed up with the Gujarat police to help them trace the whereabouts of the family of deceased 11-year-old girl who was raped and found murdered in the Diamond City. 

 A group of textile traders associated with   have printed 25,000 pictures of the victim and her basic details collected from the city police. These pictures have been pasted on sari boxes being supplied to Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. 
 
 There are 165 textile markets housing more than 70,000 textile shops in the city. The daily volume of saris and dress material is to the tune of Rs 80 crore. Before the Goods and Service Tax (GST) it was Rs 110 crore. The traders have been sending sari and dress material parcels to the tune of Rs 30 crore to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Odisha. They are sending saris worth Rs 3 crore to Odisha daily. 
 
 Along with the pictures of the girl, it is mentioned that whoever provides information about the girl will be rewarded with a cash prize of Rs 25,000. The girl’s body was found on April 6 from Jiav-Budia Road under the jurisdiction of Pandesara police station. The girl was tortured in captivity for more than a week and she had around 89 grievous injury marks.
 
 Seva Foundation secretary general  , who is a textile trader, told TOI, “We met the city police commissioner and told him to share details about the victim with us. Since her identification is yet to be made, we thought of circulating her pictures and details in Odisha and other states. Our sari parcels are sent in every nook and corner of the country and this is the best way to reach out to the family members of the girl.”
 
 Sharma added, “At first we printed 25,000 pictures of the girl with her details and reward money information and distributed them in Raghuveer and JJ A/C textile markets. Demand is pouring in from other markets as well. We will print another 2 lakh pictures and distribute them in the markets.”
 
 Seva Foundation founder president   said, “Our main aim is to find the family members of the girl. We have requested the police to not cremate or bury the girl’s body until her family is found. We are also running a website for missing persons and have posted the details of the girl there as well.”
 
 
