HYDERABAD: About 32 per cent of the women in the state do not have a say in decisions regarding their own health, and examples are replete in the city. This was revealed in the latest   (NFHS) 4, India's biggest survey of  , released recently. This absence of say in crucial matters affects women's health, and many a times they do not even seek medical attention for pressing problems, especially gynaecological problems, say experts in the city.

 The healthcare related ‘decisions’ not only include having a say in choosing a doctor or hospital to go to or whether to seek medical attention at all. The situation is so bad that many women have no say in which medical procedures are performed on them. In one such case attended to by a city based gynaecologist, the woman was unaware of having a copper T procedure done on her.
 
  
  
 
 
 “The woman had delivered seven years back and had the procedure done right then but did not know about it. We found the copper T during tests and it was revealed that the husband and in-laws decided about the procedure. This shows the extent to which the problem exists in society. It is not just the lesser educated women,” explains Dr  , gynaecologist, Bloom hospitals.
 
 The more educated women seem to have better say in such decisions. “Participation in all three decisions varies most by age, increasing sharply from 26 percent among women between the age 15-19 to 67 percent among women in the age group 40-49,”pointed out the survey.
 
 However, “the level of education may not play as important a role as the woman’s earning capacity,” said Dr  , clinical director and consultant obstetrics and urogynaecology, Birthright, Rainbow Hospitals pointing out yet another case a woman who was having very heavy menstrual bleeding was brought to us only when her problem starting affecting the daily household work. By the time she was brought in she was having severe anaemia and bedridden. “In another example an educated woman was forced by the in laws to go for a C section birth against the woman’s wish for normal delivery as the in-laws wanted the child at a particular time (mahurtam),” she added.
 
