CHANDIGARH: Featuring in the allied events category with the ongoing 8th Theatre Olympics, sisters and Kathak exponents of the national and international repute Nalini and   held a special masterclass explaining the nuances of the art form along with focusing on the differences of expression and appearance in both theatre (drama) and dance at the  , Tagore Theatre by 2 pm here on Monday.

 Both the Asthana sisters, while being present with their guru   of the Banaras Gharana, spoke about the importance of rigidity in structure and form while performing in order to being out grace, dispelling the popular misconception of actualising grace through softness and subtle movements. They said that softness of hand movements and gestures while performing depletes the quality of performance by making translation of expression very loose. However, a graceful performance can be achieved by having an utmost control over your body, while performing through controlled and precise movements.
 
 
 Belonging to a family of defense, with no direct connection to arts in a significant manner, Nalini and Kamalini both harboured a keen interest in the world of arts since there school days and got introduced to their Guru   at the same time, who shaped their interest and talent. “I was a chemical engineering student and my sister Kamalini Ji was in medical.
 
 I always had an interest in the arts though. At the same time, I was earlier a state-level runner and then eventually became a national-level runner,” said   While Nalini was seen explaining the various concepts of Nritya to the audience, Kamalini tried explaining the same through small subject-based dance performances on tabla and violin. 
 
 “Nritya mein hum nirakaar ko akaar deke sakaar karte hain (In dance we condense the form of the formless and present it). However, in theatre, the actor becomes the character and absorbs the persona of the character deeply to make the audience see the character through him or her,” said Nalini Asthana.
 
