CHANDIGARH: Five days since a jeweller’s family was robbed of Rs 1.5 crore at gunpoint, police remain without much clue to the four robbers. They have grilled the old servants, drivers, and acquaintances of jeweller   and even questioned one of his old hands for a few days but reached nowhere in the investigation.

 With none of their theories working out, so far, the cops are tight-lipped about the progress of the case. Teams from three police stations, the crime branch, and the operation cell are solving this robbery that happened in Sector 33 but they have landed no substantial evidence, so far. Even the   images from the neighbourhood (the robbers took away the recorder of the CCTV system of the house) have proved useless.
 
 The surveillance cameras of the locality could capture only the robbers’ getaway vehicle, a Black   Santro car. Since Day One of the incident, police have a hunch that it is the work of some insider or an old enemy of the Jain family. However, Ajit Jain has not raised suspicion on anybody. Police have also collected the call-data dump of thousands of mobile-phone numbers that were active in the area at the time of the robbery but found no clue in it, so far. They have scanned the CCTV camera footage from all exit points of the city but failed to trace the getaway Santro car, so even that lead seems to have run cold.
 
 On the night of January 9, four armed robbers decamped with diamond and   jewellery worth Rs 1.5 crore from Jain’s house when his wife, daughter, and a servant were home. The robbers held them hostages at gunpoint and uprooted the digital video recorder (DVR) of the surveillance system at the house after the robbery. Jain told police that his house was covered by nine CCTV cameras.
 
 After the robbers fled, Jain’s daughter informed him about the crime and then the jeweller called cops from the Sector-16 police station. He went to his house and found that the robbers had taken away all the jewellery of his wife, daughter, and daughter-in-law.
 
 
