TRICHY: For R  , starting a roadside eatery fifteen years ago was more of a desperate attempt to fund her children’s education. But the delicious snacks the shop has been serving all these years have won a lot of admirers for the 55-year-old woman. The eatery which has many loyal customers is located on   in Srirangam. 

 Ask one of her regular snackers what they love to pick first from the shop and the answer is likely to be ‘Tirumaal vadai’. “That is one item which my customers never get tired of. Within minutes of preparing the vadais, they get sold out. Most of those who come to my eatery tell me that ours is the best vadai they have ever tasted,” says Shagunthala proudly. The specialty vadai is made of black gram and pepper. Besides this sought-after snack, the eatery also has a dedicated following for mint and onion pakoda.
 
 Asked how she learnt to make Tirumaal vadai, she said, “It kind of tastes like vadais that we get as prasad in temples. I just made my own version of it.” According to her, at least 500 customers come to her eatery every day. “This is the reason why I make sure I don’t take leave and my shop is open throughout the year,” she said.
 
 Open from 4.30 pm to 8.30 pm, the other snack varieties at Shagunthala’s shop include medhu vadai, masala vadai, potato bonda, chilli bajji, plantain bajji apart from the sweets adhirasam and boli. While adhirasam and boli cost Rs 5 apiece, four pieces of the rest of the items are available at Rs 10.
 
 Shagunthala credited much of her eatery’s success to her husband. “Though I run it, my husband helps me a lot. He’s the one who prepares the dough for all the items. He never gets tired,” she said. The Srirangam-resident said she was immensely satisfied with the fact that the prime reason to start the eatery had been fulfilled. “I started it so that I could provide good education to my children. My son is now working abroad and my daughter is leading a happy married life. This is all I wanted,” she said.
 
 When asked if she had any plans to expand her business, she said, “No, not at all. It’s tough to manage this place itself. If I get greedy, I’ll ultimately be the sufferer in the end,” she said.
 
 
 
