CHENNAI: The Madras high court has made it clear that the Union territory of Puducherry is entitled to receive 85MW of total power generated in Neyveli Lignite Corporation Limited (NLC) stage-II thermal power stations as per directives of the Union government. 

 A division bench of   and Justice P Velmurugan also held that Puducherry cannot be declared a high-tension (HT) consumer for the purpose of fixing the tariff. 
 
 "The transaction must be considered purely as an inter-state sale of energy and not as HT consumer," the bench said.
 
 The government of India issued directives to NLC, to divert energy to Puducherry to the extent of 85MW. The agreement executed between the NLC and   (TNEB) on March 9, 2001, contained a mandatory provision that supply should be made to Puducherry treating the transaction as an inter-state sale.
 
 TNEB initially supplied electricity to Puducherry treating it as an industrial consumer and collected only cost payable to NLC together with wheeling charges at 10 paise per KWH. However, in the subsequent order issued by Tamil Nadu government dated November 28, 2001, through which Puducherry was considered as a HT consumer like other HT consumers in the state.
 
 Similarly, bills were also raised for the sale in favour of Puducherry as HT consumer. As Puducherry objected to this, TNEB moved the   for fixing the tariff with effect from March 16, 2003.
 
 Holding that Puducherry cannot be considered as a HT consumer of the TNEB for fixation of tariff, the commission ordered status quo, meaning thereby, to continue to treat Puducherry as a HT Consumer.
 
 Aggrieved, Puducherry moved a writ petition, which was dismissed by a single judge of the high court, prompting the Union territory to prefer the present appeal. The territory also pointed out that TNEB has now raised a bill for Rs 1663.75 crore as on August 18, 2016.
 
 When the appeal came up for hearing, the bench said there was no agreement between the NLC and TNEB to revise the tariff applicable to Puducherry. The NLC accepted payment from TNEB to the extent of supply of energy made to Puducherry. The payment was in accordance with the bilateral agreement entered into between NLC and TNEB. Therefore, the TN government was not correct in including Puducherry within the definition of 'HT Consumer', so as to collect energy charges from the Union territory along with other HT consumers, purchasing energy from TNEB.
 
 
