NEW DELHI: As   begin their 2018   with a home game against   today, their mentor   believes the absence of   can be overcome due to  's experience and the depth in the franchise's squad.

 
 
 
 
 With first-choice captain Warner not playing this season after a one-year ban from Cricket Australia for his role in the recent ball-tampering, Sunrisers named Williamson captain for IPL 11. Laxman wholly endorsed the move, and was confident in the New Zealand skipper leading the franchise smoothly. 
 
  
  
 
 "Our preparations have been excellent despite the heavy rain in Hyderabad. We came away from the auction happy with our acquisitions, which make us a stronger, well-rounded side. Quite obviously, the loss of David Warner in unfortunate circumstances is a big blow, that is stating the obvious, but we feel that even so, we have the resources to mount a strong challenge. Kane Williamson is a wonderful batsman and an inspirational leader, and we are confident he will ensure a seamless transition," wrote Laxman, who played 22 IPL matches between 2008 and 2011. 
 
 Despite losing Warner, Sunrisers have very good batsmen in Williamson, Shikhar Dhawan, Manish Pandey, Deepak Hooda, Shakib Al Hasan, Alex Hales, Wriddhiman Saha and  . With the ball, they have Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Rashid Khan, Chris Jordan, Sandeep Sharma and Billie Stanlake to use across the season. According to Laxman, both pool sets were deep and give the franchise plenty of options. 
 
 
 
 
 "The depth in our batting and the variety in our bowling means we have the luxury of playing different combinations depending on the conditions and the opposition without having to make compromises," he wrote. "Twenty20 cricket is all about momentum and getting on a roll. We have two matches in our backyard before we start travelling, and as a group, we would love to get two wins under our belt so that we can carry that positive energy with us when we hit the road."
 
 Monday's match pits SRH against the returning Royals, and Laxman expected a full house at Uppal. 
 
 "We at Sunrisers Hyderabad have never been short of support at our base in Uppal. Our fans have stood by us through thick and thin, and been our unofficial 12th man, energetically driving us forward. We are thankful for their patronage, and as we gear up for our first game against Rajasthan Royals on Monday night, we will do our best to keep them happy and in good spirits," he wrote.
 
