BENGALURU: Even as the city gears up for Times Litfest Bangalore, you can feast at a literary dinner with a bestselling author. Rajdeep Sardesai, consulting editor, India Today Group and author of ‘2014: The Year That Changed India’, will talk about his journey as a writer and a journalist over a sit-down meal with you.

 One of Indian TV’s best-known faces, Sardesai told TOI, “I deem it a great privilege to be part of the Lit Fest Dinner Talk. I have never done one before so it sounds exciting and I look forward to it. I hope to share stories from my journey as a reporter and author.”
 
 Chancery Pavilion will be the venue of the Literary Dinner on February 2 from 8pm. Tickets available on Book-MyShow.
 
 
 
 
 For those who are interested in getting insights into the business world and explore the topic ‘Why the world’s biggest companies are coming to India for R&D’, the right place is the panel discussion on February 4 between 4.30pm and 5.30pm. The panelists include  , vice-president, Industry Initiatives, Nasscom, Lalit Ahuja, CEO, ANSR Consulting and Manu Saale, MD & CEO,   Research & Development India and the discussion will be moderated by Sujit John, business editor, The Times of India, Bengaluru.
 
 Saale said, “The history of engineering in India goes back to ancient times. Now, India is renowned for its talented engineering competencies. The rapidly growing economy and positive demography makes it a global hub for foreign investors. The transformation India is going through now has encouraged investment in the automotive, electronics and IT segments. In the coming years, we’ll see an enormous growth in the engineering sector.”
 
 
 
 
 In the panel discussion ‘Dream.Build. Grow - The rise and rise of entrepreneurship in India’,  , cofounder and managing partner at Prime Venture Partners, Nithin Kamath, founder & CEO, Zerodha, and   Goel, CEO, Urban Ladder, will talk about the startup scenario on Saturday, February 3 between noon and 1 pm. The moderator will be Vishal Bali, Asia head (healthcare), TPG Growth and co-founder and chairman, Medwell Ventures, India.
 
 Swamy said India is going through massive digitization and it’s an amazing time to be an entrepreneur. “I’m really excited to attend, learn and share my experiences and views.”
 
 Kamath said he’s extremely excited to be on the panel. “Startups in India are doing a lot of interesting things today to change the way people live and interact with each other. Being in the thick of all the action is thrilling.”
 
 Goel said as a lover of literature and reading, he feel events like the LitFest are crucial for the society. “It’s great to be a part of something that adds to Bengaluru’s rich culture. I’m looking forward to the discussion and experiencing the vibrancy of this literary celebration,” he added.
 
 
