GAYA: The three high intensity improvised devices (IEDs) found in mettalic containers, weighing about 10kg each, on Friday evening, were neutralised by the   team on Sunday.

 However, apparent security lapse leading to the explosion and recovery of IEDs in heavily crowded area of Bodh Gaya has caused serious embarrassment to the police top brass and axe may fall on duty deficient cops. That the saboteurs could successfully plant the live bombs at highly sensitive points including near the Tibetan monastery where Buddhist spiritual leader Dalai Lama has been staying for the last nearly three weeks, shows local surveillance machinery in a poor light, more so when the place had witnessed a terrorist attack in 2013. About 3,000 cops were deputed in Bodh Gaya when the IED went off on Friday evening.
 
 “It was also a case of intelligence failure. In the modern scientific era electronic surveillance of organisations and individuals was not that difficult,” said a retired IG rank officer.
 
 Asked if action would be taken against cops for duty dereliction, Zonal IG Nayyar Hasnain Khan said on Sunday said that he has sought a detailed report from the SSP and only after receiving the report he would be in a position to form an opinion. “The DM is also expected to submit his report,” said the IG. Earlier, Gaya SSP Garima Malik suspended 13 cops for dereliction of duty and an equal number of magistrates were issued show-cause notices by DM Abhishekh Singh. Khan also said that a thorough review of the security scenario in Bodh Gaya has been done and an ASP rank official has been deputed to lead Dalai Lama's security arrangements. “The ASP has already joined duty,” said Khan. Besides the deployment of an ASP, arrangements have been made for facilitating VVIP movement at short notice.
 
 Refusing to share information on the progress of the investigation, the Zonal IG said a dedicated team under the leadership of Magadh range DIG Vinay Kumar and SSP Garima Malik has been formed to probe the incident. Asked if the case was likely to be transferred to some other agency like the state ATS or NIA, the IG said that as of now police have registered a case.
 
 
