NEW DELHI: BJP MLA Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Sunday said the portrait of   would not be allowed to put on display inside  , alleging that the Mysuru ruler was a “traitor” and an “anti-national”. 

 Threatening to pull down the portrait, Sirsa said he was not afraid of the consequences of his action.
 
 Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Republic Day unveiled portraits of 70 people — including Tipu Sultan — from India’s past who are recognised as revolutionaries, freedom fighters and heroes. Speaker Ram Niwas Goel had called Tipu Sultan a “deshbhakt” (patriot).
 
 On Sunday, Sirsa said: “Tipu Sultan was a traitor. He is known to have forcefully converted thousands of Hindus and Christians to Islam and was extremely brutal towards Hindus. There is no reason why his portrait should be allowed in the House.” He alleged that AAP was eugolising Tipu Sultan to appease Muslims. Sirsa demanded that his portrait be replaced by that of Prithviraj Chauhan or prominent Sikh leader Jassa Singh Ahluwalia.
 
 Leader of opposition in the assembly,  , claimed that many unsung patriots and freedom fighters of Delhi were ignored while selecting the 70 people. “Revolutionary freedom fighters Bhai Balmukund, Master Amir Chand and Master Awadh Bihari who were hanged by the British in Delhi could have been included,” Gupta said. He alleged that the opposition wasn’t consulted before the selection was made. 
 
 Gupta also claimed that AAP had deliberately taken this controversial decision to deflect attention from its government’s poor performance in the city. 
 
 He said Karnataka witnessed a major clash in 2015 over the celebration of Tipu Sultan Jayanti in the state. “After protests in Karnataka, such a controversy should not have been repeated. The Delhi government should have avoided it,” Gupta said. “They want to keep the controversy alive,” he alleged.
 
 Sirsa said he would call upon Speaker Goel on Tuesday and demand that the portrait be removed. If action wasn’t taken, then he would personally remove it, he added.
 
 AAP, meanwhile, rejected Sirsa’s contention that it was trying to appease Muslims. 
 
 “The 70 freedom fighters have been selected from different religions and from different parts of the country. We wanted to include some names from RSS too, but unfortunately, we could not find any — even after trying very hard,” AAP chief spokesperson and MLA   said.
 
 
