PUNE: Back in the day,   had a shop dealing in electricals. A very skilled hunter, Abdultayeb soon set his eyes on a new target. He started the city’s first arms shop — the eponymous Badruddin Abdultayeb — in 1942.

 Decades later, Badruddin Abdultayeb, one of Pune’s four arms stores, is still a prime attraction in busy  . And Abdultayeb’s family, which adopted the Bandukwala name, continues to be the true bandookwallahs of the city.
 
 Speaking of the store, Badruddin Abdultayeb’s grandson   says, “My grandfather, a very good hunter, decided to get into this business. Earlier, guns were mainly sold for sporting purposes. Today, security is the prime focus. We deal in all types of guns allowed for civilian use, which are classified as ‘non-prohibited’ or NP. These can include certain types of pistols as well as rifles, like those used by security personnel at banks.”
 
 Bandukwala adds the saturation in the market, coupled with the stringent gun control, has led to a decrease in gun sales. “Arms licences are difficult to obtain and as a result, the sales of NP guns have fallen. Initially, the shop would sell anywhere between 10 and 15 guns each month. Now, we sell as many in a year. A large chunk of our sales come from bank orders, as guns are required for security at all bank outlets. We have a bulk order of guns for all security personnel at the   (SBI) outlets across Maharashtra,” Bandukwala says.
 
 He says the shop has diversified into a range of related products. “Now, the focus is more on service rather than the sale of guns. Moreover, we have expanded our product portfolio and are also dealing in air guns, air rifles and sporting equipment required for trekking and other outdoor sports. We have also introduced bows and arrows and cross-bows used for archery,” he says.
 
 Bandukwala says the significant rural population around the city has kept the sales of air guns and air rifles steady. “These guns and rifles do not require a licence. Pune is surrounded by rural areas. Many persons from these areas buy the air guns for security purposes as it is not easy to get a gun licence. Many of these air guns make a loud noise when fired, which is enough to scare away stray animals that often enter farms, and even thieves in certain cases. Because of this very reason, air guns and air rifles will continue to have a good market,” Bandukwala says.
 
 Handling the shop alongside his father since 1998, Bandukwala hopes his children will carry on in the family business. “I would like my kids to continue in the family business and expand the product range further,” he says.
 
