Visakhapatnam: The jury seems to be in on a panther scare that left the city’s forest department officials on the edge in early December last year. 

 While some locals claimed to have spotted a pair of panthers prowling around the Kailasagiri hill stretch, environmentalists said the animals were in all likelihood a pair of sambar deer – part of a herd that has apparently made the Seethakonda hill their home.
 
 The panther scare was rebutted by a truck driver who parks his vehicle on the outskirts of Visalakshinagar close to the highway. “We were surprised to hear about a panther scare. We didn’t take it seriously. In fact, sambar are a common sight. We see them almost everyday moving between Seethakonda and Kailasagiri,” said K Siva Ram, the trucker. 
 
 Rumours of the panther sighting prompted the forest department to cordon off the Kailasagiri hill making it out of bounds for tourists. Forest officials combed the entire Seethakonda-Kailasagiri hill stretch for signs of the panthers, but after a week, called off the search and reopened the hilltop park.
 
 Environmentalists say the sambar deer were pushed out of their natural habitat of Kambalakonda by the NH-16 that cuts through the area. The sambar deer have now made Seethakonda and Kailasagiri their enclave after being boxed in by human habitations along Visalakshinagar and MVP.
 
 “The forest department is aware of the existence of a small herd of sambar deer that refuses to leave the Seethakonda forest, a small isolated patch,” said Alan Chong Teron, Visakhapatnam divisional forest officer (DFO). Teron said these deer shuttle between Kailasagiri and Seethakonda for food and water during summer. 
 
 “If we fence them, we could end up killing them either through starvation or injuries due to the fence. These sambar consider Kailasagiri and Seethakonda their territory.”
 
 DN Sinha, an old-timer, said, “Whenever we drove past the old dairy farm in the early 1980s, we saw herds of sambar crossing over to graze in the farm. Times have changed. Today, the deer have to co-exist with humans.” 
 
 
