HYDERABAD: Not many people know that the   introduced the concept of ‘pocket money’ for students to encourage them to go to schools. The Qutub Shahi rulers also provided food to students in what could be described as a modern-day meal scheme in government schools.

 Salma Ahmed Farooqui of the   for Deccan Studies, Moulana Azad National Urdu University, said the Qutub Shahis were known for their imperial gifts to different sections of people. Apart from paying a sort of pocket money to students, the Qutub Shahis ensured that everyone irrespective of caste and religion felt happy. In fact, the rulers created a public bath (hamam) near   (in  ) where people were given free lungis.
 
 
 Prof Salma Farooqui, an expert in Deccan history, presented a research paper on imperial gift giving at Qutub Shahi court, at the second international seminar on “Telangana through ages: perspectives from early and medieval period”. She said, “Ibrahim Qutub Shah IV built… scores of schools. Primary education was free and children were provided food. A small token allowance during school days, like a sort of pocket money, was given to students.”
 
 She said even the common man was made to feel part of the system. During the time of Sultan Quli Qutb Shah (1518 CE-1543 CE), a fine Hamam or public bath was built. “It is said that all those who took bath there were not only provided free service but were also presented lungis or printed towels of the finest variety. It shows that the aim was to achieve goodwill of people unmindful of whether they were Muslims or non-Muslims,” Prof Salma said.
 
 Referring to the non-partisan attitude of the rulers, she said Ibrahim Qutb Shah (1550 CE-1580 CE) had a passion for Telugu language and showered monetary gifts and pensions on Telugu poets.
 
 “Because of the continuous flow of people from Turkistan, Khurasan and Arabia thronging to the city as travellers, traders, calligraphists, architects, artisans, religious men and adventurers, Golconda became a meeting place of Deccani and Perso-Arabic cultures,” Prof Salma said adding that giving gifts, presents and honours formed part of the ritualistic practices of the time and served to keep intact the social stability of the state.
 
 “They kept alive a system where their image would live longer than their imperial authority,” she said, adding it was aploy to divert attention of people from mundane matters or pitfalls of administration towards the opulence of the state. “These elements were essentially mechanisms quietly seeking political legitimacy for a power that was considered foreign,” she said.
 
