CHENNAI: The   is yet to approve the amended bylaw of the AIADMK, from which O Panneerselvam and   draw powers to administer the party as coordinator and joint coordinator respectively of its steering committee.

 The EC has revealed this in a reply to an   application filed by a party functionary. The EC reply said, “The new bylaws proposed by the party are still under consideration”. On whether existing law permits two persons (OPS and EPS) to sign the electoral forms for allocation of the party symbol to candidates contesting elections, the commission skirted the question saying the information sought by the applicant would not come under the definition of information under the Right to Information Act, 2005.
 
 The EC revelation has exposed the present party leadership, which is already battling threat from T T V Dhinakaran, to new challenges. The inference is that the party general secretary post is still valid. Former MP and MLA, K C Palanisamy, who was expelled from the party on Friday, is the first petitioner who challenged appointment of V K Sasikala as the party general secretary. Since then, he had been campaigning for conducting an election for the general secretary post. The original bylaw says that every cadre of the party has voting right in the election for the general secretary post.
 
 The EC, apparently, has not taken up the issue of the bylaw amendment till now as it has been preoccupied with a series of elections. An EC official said, “We will take it up only after the   and   polls. No rule says the commission should decide these issues within a timeframe”.
 
 Meanwhile, OPS and EPS had signed the electoral forms, allotting the party symbol ‘two leaves’ to E Madhusudhanan in the R K Nagar byelection. In other terms, the EC had accepted their signing powers as an interim arrangement. “In the case of R K Nagar byelection, nobody challenged the right of OPS and EPS to sign the electoral forms. But if anyone challenges their rights, the issue will once again go back to the EC. The AIADMK bylaw does not permit any administrative mechanism other than an elected general secretary,” said K C Palanisamy.
 
 He said he had been pressurized by the party leadership ever since the OPS-EPS merger to withdraw the case before the EC. But he chose not to withdraw it, said Palanisamy.
 
 
