MUMBAI: In this age of TV replays, availability of 24x7 highlights and social media, there is literally no place to hide for erring umpires. On Wednesday night umpire   may have realised this painful truth. It was the fifth ball of the 15th over of Mumbai Indians’s innings against Kolkata Knight Riders at the Eden Gardens. Right-arm fast bowler   was bowling to Rohit Sharma.

 
 
 Ananthapadmanabhan declared it a front-foot no-ball. TV replays showed Curran’s foot was well behind the crease . The giant screen at the stadium flashed the same. In the commentary box, former Australia captain Michael Clarke called the no-ball call a disgrace. He later tweeted: Horrible umpiring on this occasion and with all the technology in our game these days it should be overturned. Naturally, Twitter went berserk.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 On Thursday Harsha Bhogle came to Ananthapadmanabhan defense. The veteran commentator tweeted: On the Tom Curran no-ball yesterday: the umpire probably saw it a tiny fraction late & so, saw the foot over the line because the bowler’s foot slipped ahead after landing. Yes he should have spotted it but it happens quickly and we all make mistakes. Assigning motives is unfair.”
 
 
 
 What motive was Bhogle speaking about? Has the noise about the dreaded three-letter word starting with ‘f’ become so strong that opinion makers are taking notice? But this was a front foot no-ball, not a faint edge or a 50-50 leg-before decision to be made against a ball pitching outside leg-stump. Ananthapadmanabhan’s monumental blunder was worthy of outrage. An argument that could be made is that umpiring on Indian grounds, especially at a packed Eden Gardens, can be tough.
 
 The eleventh season of the   has had its share of bad umpiring calls. During the Chennai Super Kings vs Sunrisers Hyderabad match in Hyderabad on April 22, Vinit Kulkarni was the square-leg umpire when he failed to call a no-ball off a high full-toss bowled by Shardul Thakur to Kane Williamson. Hyderabad lost by four runs chasing 182.
 
 In another game, this time between   and Kings XI Punjab at the Eden Gardens, the umpire penalised Andrew Tye for a front-foot no-ball. Tye too had his foot well behind the crease. Delhi Daredevils’s captain Shreyas Iyer had expressed disappointment with the umpiring standards after their game against Chennai Super Kings. Doesn’t end there.
 
 ipl,  ,  ,   
 
 Chennai Super Kings’s Shane Watson was trapped in front by a fiery Trent Boult on the first ball of the match but the umpire gave him not out. The decision was reviewed. The ball was hitting the stumps but there were doubts whether the ball had hit the bat or pad first. The third umpire upheld on-field umpires call.
 
 Watson ended getting 78 runs prompting Iyer to say, “Not only me, the whole dressing room and obviously you also think the same – that the ball hit the pad first and then the bat. The way Watson started it totally changed the game.”
 
 RCB skipper Virat Kohli too had a lot to say to on-field umpire Nitin Menon after Hardik Pandya was given ‘not out’ by the third umpire. Menon had declared Pandya out but the third umpire overturned the decision despite TV replays showing a deviation.
 
 
