Cyclists in the city can in a month’s time pedal along  ,   and around  , on a shared track, work on which has been started by the corporation.

  
  
 A 17-km track panning many busy roads, including in Besant Nagar, Adyar, and Island Grounds, is being constructedto promote non-motorised transport system, as reported by TOI in November last year. Being done in phases, the cycling track is likely to be thrown open to the public next month, officials said.
 
 Work is going on along   Road and along Island Grounds with the path being marked in green thermoplastic paint. Signboards will be installed at every 200m to indicate the presence of a cycling track.
 
 “There will be signboards for cycles along the road, to sensitise people that it is a shared space for cyclists. We will have reflectors and rumble strips for thesafety of cyclists,” said a corporation official.
 
 However, bollards will not be there due to the lack of space, officials said. “Bollards are not practical on a congested road like Sardar Patel Road. Using the cycle track, we aim at giving a safe shared-space for cyclists,” said the official.
 
 Of the 17km, 13 km will span over areas like Kasturibai Nagar Second Cross Street, MG Road in Adyar, Besant Avenue Road, Tiru-Vi-Ka Bridge, and parts of Elliot’s Beach and DGS Dinakaran Road in Adyar and Besant Nagar.
 
 The remaining 4 km is around the Island Grounds, near Napier’s Bridge, that will be spruced up as it has still not found many users.
 
 Cyclists say cycling is not new to Chennai and that mutual respect among road users is what would propagate a better environment for cyclists. “There have been dedicated space for cyclists in the city since years back, even in 1963. With increased traffic, no attention is paid to cyclists. Bollards will ensure a safer space for cyclist. In the absence of that, people and authorities have to work together in making cycling a safer experience,” said Ramanujar M, of Cycling Yogis, a city-based cycling group.
 
 Advait Jani of the Urban Works Institute, said, “Given the driving culture in our city, the cycle lane will mostly be encroached by vehicles. Cycle infrastructure needs to be segregated from the motorised traffic.”
 
 
