KANNUR: While the efforts to get Geographical Indications (GI) tag for   are going on, the   has taken up an unique initiative to   in the district, as part of its  , under which it would grow 25000 saplings of this unique mango variety.

 As part of the programme, CPM district secretary P Jayarajan had inaugurated a mango sapling nursery at Komakkari in Kuttiattoor recently, where the Kuttiattoor mango saplings will be grown to be planted in different parts of the district.
 
 According to Jayarajan, the party has launched the campaign, ‘Green armour for Kannur’, to protect the environment, and the mango nursery with special focus on Kuttiattoor mangoes is also a part of that. The plan is to plant one lakh trees on the occasion of the World Environmental Day, which falls on June 5.
 
 He also said the ‘kaavus’ (sacred groves) are our oxygen parlours and steps are being taken to that as well. Various other initiatives including ‘know the river’ trip and also collection and removal of plastic waste would be held on various days ahead of June 5.
 
 Incidentally, the nursery to grow Kuttiattoor mango saplings has been inaugurated when the authorities, including the Agriculture Department and Kuttiattoor village panchayat, are in the process of reviving the efforts to get the GI tag to this variety of mango. The effort had started in 2015.
 
 “Recently we had held a meeting with Agriculture Minister VS Sunilkumar and other officials for GI registration and we are confident that it would get the GI tag,” said researcher and mango farmer A Prabhakaran, who is at the forefront of the campaign for GI tag. Though the Nambiar Maha Sabha (NMS) had claimed that the fruit is known as ‘Nambiar mango’ and hence the GI should have the Nambiar tag, such claims have subsided now, he said.
 
 At the same time, there is a concern whether the effort of the CPM to promote Kuttiattoor mango will be fruitful, because the mango’s quality is dependent on the soil quality of the place, and if it is cultivated elsewhere, it may not provide the same nutritious qualities, according to the experts in the field.
 
 As per a study conducted by the Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, this mango has high carotenoid (around 26 mg/100 gm) content but when the same variety is cultivated elsewhere, there was a dip in it, said Prabhakaran, underscoring the importance of the geographical condition of Kuttiattoor with respect to the qualities of this mango variety. However, the CPM’s effort is seen as a welcome move because this will help popularize the mango variety elsewhere, he said, adding that the unexpected summer rain has affected the crop this time.
 
