PUNE:   on Friday arrested a 50-year-old woman from   on charges of duping several people over  .

 A high-end luxury car was also seized from her.
 
 After a three-day remand in police custody, a magisterial court on Monday ordered Meenal Gosavi’s remand in magisterial custody.
 
 Gosavi zipped around in a high-end luxury car and impressed people with her fluent English. She claimed to run a flourishing money-lending business for past several years. In reality though, she had cheated several persons of varied amounts over the last two years.
 
 On February 2, Shivajinagar police senior inspector Prabhakar Shinde and his team arrested the woman from her rented accommodation.
 
 So far three complaints of cheating have been lodged against Gosavi with Cantonment, Sangvi and Shivajinagar police stations. She is said to have collectively duped people of Rs 13 lakh but Shinde said that the amount is likely to go up as many people are coming forward with complaints.
 
 “The luxury car we have seized belongs to a person residing at model colony in Shivajinagar. A few months ago, the woman came in contact with the person in a club, where both were members. A friendship developed between the two and she managed to convince the man to buy her a secondhand luxury car worth Rs 26 lakh. The man purchased the vehicle and gave it to her though he bought the vehicle in his name. The woman then severed all connections him and threatened to file a false criminal complaint against him if he called her again,” Shinde said.
 
 Assistant inspector Gajanand  , who was part of the team that made the arrest, said, “The woman lost her husband and son in a car accident sometime back. However, instead of taking up a job or setting up a business, she took the easy route to make money by cheating persons who were in need of loans ranging between Rs 50 lakh and Rs 1 crore. The woman then floated two fake loan agencies and took on rent a space on Ghole Road in Shivajinagar area.”
 
 Bansode said, “A postgraduate in English literature, Gosavi always wanted to live the good life and preferred communicating with her clients in English. She enrolled in a posh club and got in touch with its members. She informed the club members about her business and asked them to refer anyone in need of a loan. The woman used to charge fees in lakhs to offer loans to customers.”
 
 Bhagwan Tekule, a land developer from Ambegaon Pathar, lodged a complaint with police last week stating that Gosavi had cheated him of Rs 3.95 lakh by promising easy and cheap loan worth Rs 1crore in August 2017.
 
 “Despite waiting for months, the woman failed to provide him the loan amount and Tekule realised that he had been cheated after she stopped taking his calls,” Bansode said.
 
 
