PORVORIM: The state department of   and employment is seriously looking to amend the existing labour and employment laws in the state to make it difficult for Goan companies or companies operating in Goa to employ workers from other states. 

 Minister for labour and employment Rohan Khaunte is studying the norms in neighbouring states, especially Karnataka, to see if it can be made mandatory for private companies operating in Goa to give preference to Goans while recruiting.
 
 “We are also moving a notification where we are making it mandatory that those companies that want to participate in trade fairs in other states or if the company has vacancies, they will have to first mention their requirements to the department,” Khaunte said.
 
  “The department will sponsor certain candidates and then they have to be interviewed. If the company decides not to hire them, they will have to give it to us in writing why the people cannot be hired.”
 
 Khaunte said the department had already sent a team to Bengaluru to study the labour laws prevalent in Karnataka, where preference is given to local youth. “Only after we give the NOC can they go ahead and participate in employment fairs outside. As of now there is no accountability. This type of approach has been there and it is unacceptable. When we invite industries to Goa, we want them to hire Goan youth,” the minister for labour and employment said.
 
 Recently, several Goan private companies headed across the border to recruit employees, a move that has not gone down well with the state government. Directed by Khaunte, the department of labour and employment has issued showcause notices to the 21 companies that participated in a job fair in Sawantwadi.
 
 “It is the moral duty of every entrepreneur and company to hire every Goan available. That is why we have the employment scheme, to create the support system,” Khaunte said.
 
 He did accept that as per Supreme Court guidelines, private companies could not be stopped from venturing beyond a state to hire employees. However, Khaunte said that the state government must be informed when a particular company decides to do so.
 
 
