Chandigarh: The Punjab government’s decision to introduce direct benefit transfer of electricity (DBTE) to farmers has evoked strong reactions from rival political parties and farmers’ unions alike. But it was actually the PHD Chamber of Industry and Commerce that had made the recommendation to the state government in June 2017.

 The Punjab council of ministers, in its meeting held on Wednesday approved a pilot research project on direct benefit transfer for 990 agriculture consumers. Industrialists are of the view that where this would ensure regular supply of funds to the Punjab state power corporation, farmers too would end up using electricity more judiciously and the cross-subsidization of industry would end. As a peripheral benefit, the power corporation will not have the option to conveniently add their losses under various heads to the agricultural sector.
 
 Jagjit Singh Kochar, economic adviser to the Punjab committee of the chamber, told TOI, “Punjab government spends around Rs 9,000 crore every year towards the cost of power, irrigation and procurement costs for the sustainability and welfare of farmers. The subsidy to be paid by the state government to the PSPCL in lieu of free power to agriculture pump set sector is around Rs 6,000 crore for financial year 2017-18 and this burden is increasing every year.
 
 “At the same time, the minimum support price (MSP) is recommended by the commission for agricultural costs and prices and weighted average cost plus calculations based on data collected from the designated nodal agencies in the selected states. It has been documented by the commission that the MSP cost calculations for the crops of Punjab do not factor in the cost of power, irrigation and procurement,” he said.
 
 “In view of this, we had suggested that Punjab should change its policy of freebies to farmers and move towards the monthly direct transfer of funds to the accounts of the targeted farmers,” said Kochar.
 
 Under the pilot project, the beneficiary farmers would be paid subsidy in cash, based on cost of power for irrigating the crops as finalized by experts from Punjab Agriculture University, Punjab state farmers commission along with agriculture and water resources departments. The farmers would be issued bills for electricity and allowed to retain the savings—subsidy minus the bill amount.
 
 AAP leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira said on Thursday that his party disapproved of the Punjab cabinet’s “anti-people” decision of sending amount of power subsidy in farmer’s account as it was is in long run a step towards withdrawing power subsidy provided to the state farmers. “The government must apologize to the people of state for making wrong promises before the elections,” said Khaira.
 
 SAD leader Sikander Singh Maluka said the cabinet was trying to give the impression that electricity meters were being installed on tube wells at various places on a pilot basis. “The Congress government has rolled out the anti-subsidy policy of finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal who has time and again in the past spoken out against giving free power facility to the farmers of the state”.
 
 Meanwhile, an official spokesperson said there was no such plan and the move would not place any financial burden on the already beleaguered farmers; rather, it would incentivize monetary savings and water conservation.
 
 
