OMKARESHWAR: Vedanta Darshan is the only solution to all the problems facing the country and the world, chief minister Shivraj Singh   said at the holy land of   at the conclusion of   on Monday.

 The Yatra, started from all corners of the state to collect metal for the proposed 108-ft-tall statue of Adi Shankaracharya, culminated at Omkareshwar.
 
 “It was an adhyatmik rally, aimed at spreading awareness on social harmony among citizens. We aim to make the contribution of Adi Shankaracharya memorable by installing his statue at Omkareshwar, which will be developed as the novel centre of Vedanta Darshan,” the CM said.
 
 Special course on ‘Advaitavaad’ at Makhanlal varsity soon
 
 The CM said that a special course on ‘Advaitavaad’ will be introduced at Makhanlal University to teach youth about Adi Shankaracharya’s contribution to Indian culture and spirituality.
 
 Before this, Chouhan addressed a gathering of over 2,500 people including sadhus and cultural luminaries. “Advaitavaad of Adi Shankaracharya will be promoted under the guidance of prominent saints to take society in the right direction,” he said, reiterating that Adi Shankaracharya had a major contribution in keeping the country united. The government will set up a ‘Vedant Sansthan’ that will focus on generating awareness among citizens about how to follow Adi Shankaracharya’s ideology, he added. “We have already sanctioned funds for this project and work will begin very soon,” he said. A light-and-sound show depicting the journey of   and Adi Shankaracharya in the region is also on the anvil. “Bramhapuri, Vishnupuri and Shivpuri areas of Omkareshwar will be connected with a foot overbridge, which will provide access to these three locations at a single stretch,” he said.
 
 Chouhan also announced an audio-video centre in Omkareshwar. “It will be called ‘Maya’, where people will be able to see the journey and contribution of Adi Shankaraacharya come alive on 3D film. The centre is meant for those looking for a scientific explanation of Advaitavaad,” he said. The MP government will launch a social equality movement through   — a trust to be formed in name of Adi Shankaracharya to ensure social harmony.
 
 “Our society is divided in different castes and sections. We have to remove all these social differences. For this purpose a movement of social equality will be started in the state,” said Chouhan.
 
