MUMBAI: Nearly 38% of bus commuters travel distances over 4km on an average every month while 44% travel a distance between 2-4km and 18% travel a minimum distance of up to 2km.

 This was revealed in the latest statistical report available with BEST. An official of the undertaking said, “We compiled details of the number of passengers travelling by purchasing bus tickets, using e-purse (prepaid card), monthly/quarterly bus pass, Magic bus pass, etc. The numbers related to three categories—ordinary, express and limited buses. An analysis of the aggregate number of commuters in a month showed that nearly 62% travelled less than 4km.”
 
 
  
 Panel member urged BEST to cut minimum fare to Rs 6
 
 The official stated that the pattern was similar a few years ago when the charts showed that 60% passengers travelled short distances. “This is the reason why the BEST adminstration, despite taking a call on fare hikes, decided not to burden commuters who travelled minimum distance or fall in the second slab of 2-4km,” the senior official from the transport wing said.
 
 BEST committee member   said that he had suggested in the past that the minimum bus fare should be reduced to Rs 6 from the existing Rs 8. “The BEST administration should try to woo back commuters who had migrated to share autos and taxis outside railway stations,” he said.   member   was also in favour of reducing rates for short distance routes as this would “completely wipe out the competition posed by other modes of transport”.
 
 BEST GM S   said there was no plan to reduce the rates for short routes. “We feel the rates—Rs 8 for 0-2km and Rs 10 for 2-4km—are competitive.” He said BEST planned to introduce ring routes connecting stations, commercial hubs and markets to woo commuters. “These passengers will have to pay minimum fares, which we have not increased,” he said.
 
 The statistics show that 1.1 crore commuters travel on an average every month for a distance up to 2km while 2.6 crore passengers purchase tickets for up to 4km. Nearly 95 lakh commuters were those who travelled for more than 6km by purchasing tickets in buses, and they will be affected by the fare hike. Similarly there were passengers who travelled distances up to 35km and they will have to shell out more money for fares from Thursday, sources said.
 
