DUMKA: After facing sharp criticism from opposition parties during the budget session on various issues of governance, chief minister  , during his Republic Day speech at the state's sub-capital, spoke on various steps taken by his government for welfare of the masses.

 "I dont claim that my government has solved all the problems of the state but the state government has been honestly attempting to justify the aspirations of the people for which they brought us to power," Das said.
 
 The CM said development would be worthwhile only if it brings smiles on faces of all members of society. He further said his government was working to strengthen the reach of the development in rural areas where a string of development schemes were being introduced.
 
 "Johar scheme worth Rs 1,500 crore is entirely dedicated to rural people which will enable two lakh rural families double their income by linking them with means for livelihood," Das said, adding that the scheme comprised both agricultural and non-agricultural activities.
 
 Highlighting measures taken by the government to improve agricultural output which, he said, is a prerequisite for all-round development of the state. Das also said, "We are focussing on means to minimize our farmers' dependency on monsoon by encouraging water conservation and providing alternate sources of irrigation."
 
 "The state government has also extended crop insurance to 12.5 lakh farmers particularly for paddy and maize to secure them from financial adversity in case of emergencies."
 
 The chief minister also highlighted steps that have been taken by his government particularly for the   division and said the region which otherwise lagged behind in the development race has now been contributing significantly to the states development.
 
 "Schemes worth Rs 3,000 crore have been launched for the residents of Santhal Pargana. These schemes were introduced by the state government recently to improve infrastructural facilities like roads, transportation, drinking water and health," Das said.
 
 He also spoke of his governments initiatives for the aggressive stand against Maoists and said 12 rebels were so far neutralised this year in 34 operations.
 
 After the function, the chif minister surprised many passers-by and shop owners when he set out for a walk on the city's streets. He was accompanied by a battery of top bureaucrats, senior administrative and police officials and   leaders. Das inspected the ongoing sanitation drive at the local bus stand situated near the circuit house. "I am sure   will figure among the top 10 cities in the state in the ongoing survey for sanitation," Das said after passing through the stretch along   to Sido-Kanhu cCowk where he drank tea an earthen cup from a stall.
 
 As Das along with 50 others enjoyed tea at   tea stall, police and security forces had a tough time restricting commoners who wished to catch a glimpse of the CM up close.
 
 
