The episode of   starts with   telling Simmi that   is getting closer to   and all this has happened because of his mistake. He gets a call from Nikhil who threatens him. He tells him to get him out of the jail, else he will expose him. 

 Ruhi is crying in her room and Raman comes to meet her. He apologizes to her for not being a good father. He tells her he needs to talk to Ishita and apologise to her. 
 
 Ishita is seen talking to Shagun over the phone. Shagun is angry after learning about Nikhil’s ill-behaviour. She says she won’t spare Simmi and Nikhil. Shagun decides to meet the inspector and check the chargesheet against Nikhil.
 
 Raman tries to find a way to talk to Ishita. Ruhi says she doesn’t want to eat, but Ishita manages to feed her. The entire family comes at the dinner table and is seen enjoying. Raman is happy. Simmi notices all this. Raman again tries to talk to Ishita but the doorbell rings. It's Ishita’s mom who needs some help.
 
 Param meets Nikhil in the jail. When the latter asks him to get him out of the jail, Param tells him it is not possible right now and that he should not reveal the truth about their plan to anyone. Shagun comes to the police station and sees Param leaving. She gets suspicious and the Inspector informs her that he had come to see Nikhil. 
 
 Raman comes and sits with Ishita. He finally gets a chance to speak to her. He apologizes for his behaviour and thanks her, saying that Ruhi’s real mother also wouldn’t have done what she has for her. He then tells her it’s good that she got married to him. At least his children will get mother’s love. Ishita smiles.
 
 While she is sitting alone, Param comes inside. He goes to Ishita and asks why she is giving him false hopes. He will soon forget this moment as well. Ishita says they will create a new memory tomorrow, for now let her enjoy this. She leaves saying she doesn’t feel like talking to him as she is very happy.
 
 Shagun meets Nikhil in the jail and threatens him that she will make sure he gets punished and gets at least 10 years in jail. Nikhil tells her that Param was behind all this and if she helps him get out, he will expose Param. 
 
 Ishita searches for Raman’s medicines. She wonders where Simmi could have kept it. Param comes and says she won’t find it. Ishita says she will find them in the next 2 days. She further adds she will make sure that Simmi and Param will be thrown out of the house soon.
 
 
 
 
