Madurai: Fed up with the delay in cleaning the Kiruthumal channel, residents of Agrini and Vasudhara apartments in Andalpuram, took things into their hands recently and began cleaning a particular stretch near their apartments. The residents resorted to this action after their long-pending demand to the Madurai Corporation was not heeded to. 

 While the cleaning activity with the help hired men and earthmovers will conclude on Wednesday, after a span of 10 days, representatives of the apartments’ residential associations have sought the civic body’s help to clear the silt, which they found it hard to remove.
 
 According to members of the association, they have been suffering from various issues as the channel remained clogged. While the main issue was mosquito menace, they also had to tolerate the unbearable smell emanating from the stagnant channel. As repeated calls for the intervention of the civic body went in vain, the residents had no other option but to help themselves out.
 
 “Mosquito is the key problem in our apartment for long, while stinking smell is the other issue. We have a dedicated person to control the mosquito menace. He goes around the apartment, spaying insecticide,” said R Murali, a resident of Agrini apartments.
 
 A key office-bearer of Agrini apartments, Ram Babu said that morning and evening walks used to be pleasant inside the compound, but the bad smell emanating from the channel had ruined it.
 
 Babu said that they have cleared for about 100m by employing 10 people. While they have already spent over Rs 1.25 lakh collected from the members, he said it is high time the civic body chips in and play a role.
 
 Secretary of Vasudhara residents association, Muralidharan said that they have managed to clear all the clogged waste but they face difficulty in clearing the silt. If the corporation comes forward by deputing earthmovers, the slit can be cleared off from the entire stretch.
 
 After meeting the deputy commissioner of Madurai Corporation, P Manivannan during the special grievance meet held at zone four office on Tuesday, the representatives said that they are positive of some action as the official assured to look into their grievances.
 
 
