Nagpur: Nagpur University's (NU) successful implementation of information technology has helped it getting rid of its perennial problem of revaluation. Since last few years, those applying for revaluation was touching about one lakh, but this year, only 20,000 applied for summer exams, which shows drastic reduction. In majority of cases, the revaluation marks are awarded within just a couple of weeks, as per NU officials. Till last year, the revaluation results took at least three months to be out from the date of application and, in some cases, it stretched beyond six months. Even the photocopies used to be delivered to students after three to four months. In a couple of cases of engineering students, the revaluation results were not provided for over a year. It was main bone of contention among aggrieved students and NU, as they lost their precious academic year. TOI regularly exposed NU’s apathy on how hundreds of innocent students were at loss as revaluation results took three months, by which time, the winter exams were completed. Pro VC Pramod Yeole, the brain behind overhauling the entire examination system with a series of bold decisions, attributed the success to strict monitoring of evaluators and increasing use of IT. “With new technology, once we scan the answer sheet, it remains in our records permanently. Later, it becomes easier for us to re-evaluate it from another teacher. If students demand their answer books, we directly e-mail them instead of providing actual photocopies, thus saving a lot of precious time and paper,” he told TOI.  NU tried to find out the way by scrapping the lengthy system of providing photocopies to the students and recommended restarting of direct revaluation system without applying for photocopy. It was Yeole-led deans’ panel that submitted a report in October 2012 to the then VC Vilas Sapkal with a recommendation to scrap the existing system of issuing photocopies before applying for revaluation. But NU Academic Council cleared it only after two years in 2014, clearly showing administration's apathy, particularly in the case of students. The aggrieved students, fed up with the faulty revaluation, staged massive protests in front of NU under Students Organisation of NU (STON) in 2012. Last year, VC SP Kane had assured to refund fees if the students clear subject in revaluation. The refund was supposed to be directly deposited in their respective accounts. But not a single student could availed of its benefits till date, officials said.  Revaluation has been major source of income for NU, as it raked in lakhs from the students and it was precisely the reason, NU exam and finance sections opposed scrapping of photocopy system. “With on-screen evaluation system, even the evaluators can’t escape their responsibility. Everything got automatically recorded like on what time they arrived, how many answer books they checked and when they left,” a senior NU officials said. 