KOLKATA: Two   around 1am on Monday when the car they were travelling by met with an accident on Sahapur Road in New Alipore.

 Police said the victims were under the influence of alcohol. They have been identified as Dilip Guchayat (29) and Neeraj Ram (30). Prima facie, the cops claimed that there were five men inside the car though only the two sustained injuries. Both are stated to be in a critical condition. All them are residents of Jinjirabazar near Taratala.
 
 Police said the car, a white hatchback, probably collided with a sand-laden truck. “None of the five occupants were able to note down the registration number of the truck. The front portion of the car was completely smashed in the accident,” an investigating officer said.
 
 The locals, however, said the accident was a result illegally dumped construction material on the road. Soumen Mondal, a local club secretary, said, “KMC has been carrying out some construction work and one of its vehicles was illegally parked on the road. This led to the accident.” New Alipore police confirmed that KMC was involved in some maintenance work in the area, but denied any of its vehicles caused the accident.
 
 “The five men were returning home when the incident occurred. We have evidence suggesting that they were inebriated,” another officer said. “CCTV footages are now being examined,” he added.
 
 Kolkata Police had recently adopted a strict policy to deal with drunk driving. However, repeated incidents of such nature, show that more random checks have become the need of the hour.
 
 Traffic sergeants point out the problems in prosecuting drunk drivers. “Breath analyser tests are inadmissible in court. If the initial reading is high, we hand over the driver to the local police station. He is then taken to a government doctor who draws out blood to have it tested for alcohol content. Imagine the time and effort involved in the entire exercise. It is only when we find heavy alcohol content that we take action (permissible limit is 30mg),” a sergeant said.
 
 
 
 
 A12-year-old boy on Monday lost his life while his father was seriously injured after the bike that they were riding skidded and fell in front of Durga Hotel on Garden Reach Road. The boy, Ajoy Singh, came under the wheels of a truck. Ajoy was a resident of Bichali Ghat Road. The incident occurred around 3.30pm. “Both the truck and the bike were speeding in the same direction,” an investigating officer said. In another accident, a 58-year-old man was seriously injured around 1.15pm on Sunday when a route 213 bus hit him from behind near the Sealdah flyover. The driver managed to flee. 
 
 
 
 A taxi driver on Sunday succumbed to his injuries sustained in an accident on Saturday night. The victim has been identified as Kanhaiya Mishra (48), a resident of Patipukur near Lake Town. According to DC (traffic) Sumit Kumar, the incident was reported from the posh Alipore Road near Garden Café. Police said a heavy vehicle – probably a truck – had rammed the car. The police rushed him to SSKM Hospital after his head started bleeding. 
 
 
 
