MUMBAI: The police have arrested three   as part of ongoing   by Parekh Alluminex Ltd (PAL) against which lenders are now claiming close to Rs 4,000 crore. Bhawarlal Bhandari, Premal Goragandhi and Kamlesh Kanungo were arrested by the economic offences wing (EOW) on Friday for cheating, forgery, breach of trust and criminal conspiracy following a complaint by Axis Bank against the firm for cheating it of Rs 250 crore. 

 Axis Bank is part of a group of over 20 creditors with an exposure to the company. Those arrested on Friday are charged with floating fake invoices and manipulated bills through bogus companies to commit the fraud at the bank's main branch, Fort, using letters of credit. The police haven't ruled out the role of bank officials in the scam. Axis Bank's complaint against PAL also mentions directors Amitabh Parekh (died in 2013), Rajendra Gothi, Devanshu Desai, Kiran Parikh and Vikram Mordani.
  
  
 Parekh Alluminex is already facing investigations by the   (CBI) following a complaint by public sector lenders, including State Bank of India and Indian Overseas Bank. Lenders have accused the private company of diverting funds to real estate developers. The company is now facing insolvency proceedings in the   where a petition has been admitted.
 
 The police said PAL initially availed of three short-term loans totalling Rs 125 crore from Axis Bank, which it repaid to "gain confidence". The firm dealt in the manufacture and trade of aluminium sheets. In 2011, PAL, led by Parekh, approached the private bank for working capital of Rs 127.5 crore. Parekh submitted minutes of a meeting of the firm's board of directors, though no such meeting was held. He did this solely for inducing the bank to sanction credit. The bank sanctioned a letter of credit to PAL, which it used to buy raw material and equipment.
 
 "Our exposure is part of a lending arrangement involving around 22 banks and the bank has filed an FIR with the EOW, post declaring the concerned exposure as fraud. We are fully cooperating with the investigating authorities," said an Axis Bank spokesperson in response to a query. The police said that Parekh and the others, instead of utilising the amount for business, diverted it to Parekh's personal account, repaid dues and settled bank loans. "In 2012, PAL showed Axis Bank that it bought aluminium foils worth Rs 49 crore from a company, Suryakiran Ferro Alloys Pvt Ltd (SFAPL), whose directors were stated as Goragandhi and his wife Bhumika. SFAPL submitted documents for encashing a letter of credit worth Rs 50 crore. 
 
 
