LUCKNOW: BSP chief   has had a far better record of dealing with party members accused of crime against women than either SP or BJP.

 During her tenure as UP CM, Mayawati took prompt action against at least five MLAs, including a minister, after they were accused of crime against women. “Mayawati was extremely strict about ensuring action against any member of the party with such serious charges against them. That is why she was feared and crime against women and Dalits came down significantly under her,” said party sources.
 
 
 In November 2007, Anand Sen  ,   from Faizabad and a minister in the Mayawati cabinet, was forced to resign after he was accused of kidnapping and murdering a girl from Faizabad.
 
 While officially he had resigned on “moral grounds to ensure fair investigation” in the matter, party sources said he was forced to step down. Yadav was finally acquitted in the case in 2013.
 
 In the same year, MLA from Dibai, Bhagwan Sharma alias Guddu Pandit, was arrested on charges of raping a PhD scholar. In 2011, the Mayawati government charged him under the National Security Act for abduction of 14 block development committee members in Hasanpur area of Jyotiba Phule Nagar.
 
 In 2009, action was taken against then chairman of UP Fisheries Development Corporation, Ram Mohan Garg, after he was accused by a woman of raping her and making an “indecent” video to blackmail her.
 
 Mayawati had sacked him soon after the allegations surfaced.
 
 Two years later, Mayawati’s tenure was rocked by two more cases of MLAs being accused of rape. In 2011, she took action against Naraini MLA Purshottam Naresh Dwivedi for getting a Dalit minor girl jailed on fabricated charges of theft. Two weeks after the girl had been imprisoned, who had alleged that she had been raped by the MLA, Dwivedi was sacked from the post of party coordinator and suspended from the party.
 
 In the same year, she suspended Bijnore MLA Shahnawaz   after his aides were arrested on charges of kidnapping two girls and trying to rape them in Muzaffarnagar. A day after the arrests, Rana was suspended from the primary membership of the party while a special task force was directed to probe the case.
 
