HYDERABAD: Following six murders in 48 hours in the city, criminal psychologists analysed the cases and said that the brutality revealed how the offenders had a deep anger and grudge towards the victims, who were probably known to them.

 “While the basic human tendency is to empathise with a pregnant woman, but chopping off parts of the body reveals a complete lack of empathy and demonstrates a lot of aggression. I had earlier handled a similar case of a murder convict in the UK, when the person had chopped off three women’s bodies. In such cases, the murder is not just about killing a person, but more about teaching a lesson and expressing anger,” said Dr  , psychiatrist of Apollo hospital.
 
 Many psychiatrists say the murders were probably carried out by persons known to the victims, who held a grudge or hatred towards the woman.
  
  
  
 “It could be the work of a jilted lover or a known person. There is also a possibility that the offender was suffering from mental disorder,” said Dr Minhaj M, another city-based psychiatrist.
 
 According to Dr Minhaj, he had three patients in the past who were convicted of murder.
 
 “During my conversation with those patients, I found that the offenders were suffering from paranoid disorder. In one of the cases, a doctor husband had killed his wife in Hyderabad. The accused was suffering from a similar disorder. He became paranoid and thought that his wife was having an affair. In most of the cases these kinds of disorder symptoms have been observed,” said Dr Minhaj.
 
 A former superintendent of police in   said 98% of the   are not repeat offenders and have committed gruesome offences like murders due to momentum grudge, anger or circumstances.
 
 “No person is born criminal, circumstances make them one. In my 33 years of service, I have interacted with several prisoners and many people who were sent to jail for committing a crime due to circumstances. We have observed that they are from slums or rural backgrounds and do not have any criminal background,” said K Venkateshwar Reddy, former superintendent of   Central Jail and president of All India Prison Officers Association.
 
 According to the former SP, they have rehabilitated and reformed nearly 300 prisoners who didn’t come back to  
 
