These days, it is common place for a leading star to extend his support to other film teams, either by providing a voice over for the trailer or the film or by gracing an occasion, be it an audio or teaser launch. The team of the upcoming Kannada film   has been lucky to have all of this and more, primarily because of lead actor Rohitt’s goodwill in the industry as an RJ. One person who has been extremely supportive of Rohitt’s endeavours in Sandalwood is   Yash. On Sunday,   took on a new mantle and turned tables on  , as he became the interviewer and not interviewee. “This is a strange experience for me, as through the years, it has always been me being interviewed by others, including Rohitt. We were wondering how I could extend my support to the project and this is what we came up with,” says Yash. Here are excerpts from the chat. 

 
 
 
  The difference is there in the spelling of the film. If you break it down, it is Buck, which is money in English, then Kaasu, which is money in Kannada, and then Suura, which means a good person. Put together, it is about what happens to a good man who goes chasing money. The idea behind it originated from what we see in society around us. People tend to respect the power of money and not humanity. There is a marked difference between how people with money and those without are seen and treated in society.
 
 
 
 
 First of all, as a fan of Ravi sir, having gotten the opportunity to act with him is a blessing. Second, in the past few years, he has been relegated to doing supporting characters, which I wanted to rectify. He is known as Kannada cinema’s Crazy Star, so, why not have a character to justify that? That’s how the character originated and, as you mentioned, every line that he speaks has him say ‘f’, but that doesn’t mean that it has to be an expletive that warrants to be beeped out. It could be ‘fun’ or ‘family’; he likes ‘f’ very much.
 
 
 
 
 I like ‘m’ very much — money and hope for it to come to me abundantly. In the film also, my character is a person who will do anything for money.
 
 
 
 
 My intention is to do something to help society. But to do that, you need a certain standing in society. Even if you don’t have the financial wherewithal to do certain things, if you have a position that can influence change, that helps.
 
 
 
 
  I am in films only because I want to use it to further my other plans. But films were not my first choice. In fact, in a conversation with Puneeth (Rajkumar) sir, he asked me why I wasn’t doing films. And I thought, why not. As an RJ, I have been entertaining everyone who tunes in to my show, then why not take it to a bigger platform. And that’s how films happened.
 
 
 
 
  Karvva was team effort, for which we spent months together in pre-production, scripting, etc. The film was appreciated at the box office, which gave us the confidence to collaborate again. Producing our next venture was not on the agenda and we had another partner onboard. But then creative differences cropped up and he had to bow out. By then, though, there were a lot of things that had already taken shape and there was a lot of effort and money that had gone into the pre-production. There was no way we could shelve it. So, as a team, we have all put in money and made this film. 
 
 
 
 
 Not at all. I have known you since your   days, before you became Rocking Star. I have seen your struggle and how you have grown to the star you are today, and the way you take a personal interest in your projects, right from the scripting stage. In that sense, you are a role model.
 
 
 
  I look at cinema from an audience point of view. They watch a lot of cinema and not just Kannada films. It is not easy to impress them. They are very smart and I thought that the need of the hour is to tell stories that work for them. I don’t want to do larger-than-life characters, at least for the time being. I want to make films and present characters that make the audience sit back and think. When they see films by my team, I want the audience to think that it will be true to life.
 
 
