HYDERABAD: The ‘ghost’ murder case of the city was finally closed with police filing a report to this effect in court recently.
  Anti-Homicide Team has recently filed the final report in the Nampally Criminal Courts stating that ‘landowner Iqbal Islam Khan’, who was allegedly kidnapped and murdered by residents of   Cooperative   in connection with a land dispute, doesn't exist and the complaint filed stating that he was killed as ‘false’. 
 
 Though it was found in June 2017 that it was a fake case, police worked on it for more than eight months to gather evidence and prove that the whole episode was a creation of an advocate and his associates to intimidate locals.
  
 
 A case was booked on November 9, 2016, at the   station based on a complaint filed by one Prakash Chand Saxena, who alleged that ‘Iqbal Islam Khan’ was murdered by residents of the housing society in 2012, CCS Anti-Homicide Team assistant commissioner of police (ACP) K Rama Rao said.
 
 
 Based on the court-referred complaint of Prakash Chand Saxena, Asifnagar police had registered a case under 25 Sections, including 302 (Murder), of the India Penal Code as well as the Indian Arms Act.
 
 
 ACP Rama Rao told TOI, “The case was transferred to Central Crime Station in December 2016. We had found in our investigation that one M Shiva Bhushan, a resident of Attapur, impersonated as ‘Iqbal Islam Khan’ to assist advocate Shailesh Saxena, son of Prakash Saxena to harass residents of the society.”
 
 
 “Sailesh Saxena had created ‘Iqbal Islam Khan’ character and took a certificate from Zamistanpur (Musheerabad) burial ground and, based on it, obtained a death certificate from GHMC. He later made his father file a complaint against Mustafa Hills Cooperative Housing Society stating that Iqbal was murdered. The drama was scripted to take possession of 78 acres land in Gudimalkapur over which residents and Saxena were fighting a legal battle,” he added.
 
 
 GHMC has cancelled the death certificate it issued, while burial ground staff gave a statement that they had mistakenly issued the certificate. Two witnesses to death certificate registration testified that they gave false witness and Sivabhushan, who went underground, was traced and court recorded his statement. Police also seized a fake voter ID card obtained in the name of ‘Iqbal Islam Khan’.
 
