LUCKNOW: Almost nine months after the Yogi government scrapped 15 holidays, most of them observed on birth or death anniversaries of well-known personalities or historical figures, an order from the basic education department said schools would be closed on January 24 and 31 for   birth anniversary and   respectively. 

 Although there was no such order from the secondary and higher education departments, basic education officials said that holidays were announced as any detailed order about these two occasions was yet to arrive in this calendar year. 
 
 The order (copy is with TOI) issued by secretary  , Sanjay Sinha says that primary and junior schools run by the board would remain closed on January 24 on account of Karpoori Thakur birth anniversary, and also on January 31 for Ravidas Jayanti. 
 
 While the list of 15 holidays cancelled by the UP cabinet in April included Karpoori Thakur's birth anniversary, it had no mention of Ravidas Jayanti. 
 
 Officials said, 14 out of 15 holidays cancelled fall under the restricted category. 
 
 Talking to TOI, Sinha said, "The final list of holidays for the year 2018 to be circulated is with the director for his approval. We will, in a day or two issue the list of holidays with instructions to open school on birth or death anniversaries of great personalities.'' 
 
 Chief minister Yogi Aditynath had in his address on the occasion of Dr BR Ambedkar's 126th birth anniversary on April 17 last year, expressed concern over the shrinking academic session due to increased number of holidays. 
 
 There should be no holidays in schools on birth anniversaries of great personalities. 
 
 Instead, a special two-hour programme should be held to teach students about them, Yogi had said. 
 
 The 220-day academic session has been reduced to only 120 days due to such holidays and if this tradition continues, there will be no day left for teaching in schools, said the CM at the function. 
 
 The list of public holidays scrapped in schools were Karpoori Thakur's birth anniversary, Cheti Chand, Parshuram Jayanti, Jamat-ul-Alvida (last Friday of Ramzan), Vishwa Karma Puja, Maharaja Agrasen Jayanti, Maharshi Valmiki Jayanti, Chhath Puja, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel and Acharya Narendra Dev Jayanti, Eid-e-Miladul Nabi, and Chaudhray Charan Singh Jayanti.
 
  Others like birth anniversary of former Prime Minister   (April 17), Maharishi Kashyap and Maharshi Nishadraj Jayanti (April 5), Hazrat Ajmeri Garib Nawaj Urs (April 26), Maharana Pratap Jayanti (May 9) which were declared as holidays by the previous   government too were scrapped by the ruling   government. 
 
 
