CHANDIGARH: Authorities made massive recoveries of live snakes and parts of slaughtered wild species from three locations in   district on Thursday night. A joint team of the   forests and wildlife preservation department, the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau ( ) at Delhi, and the Punjab Police carried out the raids. The configuration of the body parts, such as snake bone necklaces and owl claws suggested that the endangered species were being slaughtered to fuel black magic, sorcery and tantrik practices.

 The raids, which were launched at night, following a tip-off from the WCCB, yielded many species that fall under Schedule I of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, whose poaching attracts punishment between three to seven years.
 
 “The raids were launched at 7pm at three sites in succession, two at   and one at  . We seized two Indian rock pythons, two spectacled cobras and one red sand boa. The other recoveries included 55 peacock and owl claws, two chains fashioned from snake bones, 16 scales and skulls of snakes, 112 skins of jackals, 70 other assorted parts of bones and teeth, 94 nails, five tails of wild animals and 30 spines or quills of Indian crested porcupines. Four iron traps used for poaching were seized along with one motorcycle. However, the accused were able to flee the spots and a manhunt has been launched for them with the assistance of the police,” Ropar DFO (willdife) Vidhya Sagri told TOI.
 
 The seized articles were produced before the court of Anandpur Sahib judicial magistrate first class, and the FIR was registered under sections 9 (prohibition of hunting) 39 (wild animals, animal articles and trophies, vehicles and weapons seized shall be government property) and 51 (penalties attracted by violation) of the Wildlife Act, 1972. The snakes were dispatched to Chhatbir zoo for observation and veterinary care.
 
 “The department with the cooperation of the police and other law enforcement agencies will spare no effort to nab anyone indulging in such poaching of wild species. I have directed the forest guards to collect information on this entire nexus, which could be run on an individual basis and not as a network. Some of the body parts seized in the raids will have to be sent to the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, for forensic tests and identification of species,” Sagri said.
 
 The accused are believed to hail from a traditional hunting community, the Bangalas, which is well-versed with the habits and niche habitat spots of lucrative species. For example, such poachers identify python locations from local wood-collectors as also by seeking porcupine holes where pythons take winter residence. The technique deployed is to tie the cloth to a man’s feet who then slides into the python hole with a flashlight. The man catches hold of the hibernating python and gives a signal. His accomplice then pulls the cloth and the poacher emerges with the python.
 
 
