BENGALURU: With a little more than a week to go, the fourth edition of the Times   is readying up with a list of speakers who promise to make the two-day event a stimulating experience. 

 The speakers—Perumal Murugan, Hussain Zaidi, Jaya Jaitly, Kiran Nagarkar, Soha Ali Khan,  , Chidanand Rajghatta and more— represent diverse backgrounds. On Sunday, the audience can look forward to a talk by historian Ramachandra Guha on ‘the Art and Craft of Historical Biography’. Curated by Jayapriya Vasudevan, the theme of the festival is Aseem: Beyond Boundaries— a nod to the universality of good literature. 
 
 The festival will kick off on February 3 at the Jayamahal Palace grounds, with key-note addresses by Jnanpith and Padma Shri awardee Chandrashekhara Kambara and philanthropist and social entrepreneur Rohini Nilekani.
 
 
 
 
  Kambara’s bibliography includes 26 plays, 11 poetry collections, 6 novels, 16 research works and innumerable articles on folk theatre, literature and education. While Kambara represents the voice of the Kannada heartland, Rohini’s is the voice of a hopeful India intent on bringing about positive change. 
 
  Rohini is the founder-chairperson of Arghyam, a foundation for sustainable water and sanitation. She was inducted as Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2017. Rohini’s keynote speech will address the essence of the festival: Literature that transcends borders. Rohini will also moderate a session with Perumal Murugan, Kannan Sundaram, Sujatha Gidla and Hansda Sowvendra Sekhar on the ‘Politics of Literature’.
 
 
 
  Gurmehar Kaur and Rupi Kaur represent a young, millennial India. Gurmehar shot to fame after a social media post in 2017 in support of Delhi University. An ambassador for Postcards for Peace, and co-founder of Citizens for Public Leadership, an independent and nonpartisan movement, she was listed by TIME Magazine in October 2017 as a global ‘Next Generation Leader’.Kaur willtalk about her book, Small Acts of Freedom. Rupi, a Canadian of Indian origin, has one of the most followed handles on Instagram. A poet, artist, and performer, her works have taken the literary world by storm in the last three years. Her new book, The Sun and Her Flowers—an instant global bestseller, is an artistic sibling to her debut, Milk and Honey.
 
 
 
 
 Aspiring writers can attend the master class ‘Writing For Women’ at the Chancery Pavilion on February 2 from 9.30am to 2pm. The workshop will be conducted by Lauren Hook, editor for the Feminist Press USA; she will be assisted by literary agent Helen Mangham. 
 
 Tickets for the workshop are available on BookMyShow.
 
 
 
 While the mornings will be dedicated to literature, debates and discussions, the evenings will celebrate music and poetry. Performances include a music and poetry session by author   and musician Vidya Shah, and live music concerts by Sonam Kalra’s Sufi Gospel Project, and singer and composer Clinton Cerejo.
 
 
