KOTA: Markets in   city remained closed on Monday in   against stone-pelting over   procession in   area late on Sunday night. The situation remained under control except for isolated incidents of tyre burning at some places. Police have registered separate cases and arrested 11 persons from different communities.

 Kota range IG Vishal Bansal reached Bundi city on Monday morning and reviewed the situation. Without any prior call for bandh by any organization, shops and business establishments remained closed throughout the day, however, emergency services and shops of the minority community remained open. 
 
 Tension erupted on Sunday when some youths of a particular community erected green flag over the rooftop of old city kotwali building where throne of Raja Bhav Singh is situated in Tilak Chowk area. The situation was immediately controlled by the police and district administration and the green flag was dismantled.
 
 On Sunday, two processions, one of Chath Sharif Chadar by Muslim community and other of Ram Navmi by Hindu community were scheduled to be taken out through the main markets of the city in afternoon and late evening, respectively.
 
 When the Ram Navmi procession was being taken out late last evening some unidentified persons pelted bricks pieces at the procession in Tilak Chowk area. Later, when the procession reached Meira Gate area, a large number of people from a particular community attempted to stop the procession demanding to divert it through other route. But police allowed the procession to pass by making human wall. Some unidentified persons pelted stones over Ram Navmi procession injuring one home guard and a youth.
 
 Police have lodged various cases in connection with stone pelting over the Ram Navmi procession, said SP Bundi Yogesh Yadav.
 
 Five persons from a particular community and six others were arrested in various cases registered following the tension, the SP said. Five others were arrested under Section 151 as preventive measure for disturbing public peace, SP Yadav said.
 
 He said additional forces are deployed in the city to keep a close eye over the situation and control any untoward incident. 
 
 The shops and business establishments in city markets remained closed and incidents of tyre burning were reported at K N Singh Circle and few other places.
 
 
