KOLKATA: The huge cache of carcass meat seized from an ice factory at   on Thursday could have been used to make “abnormal profits” by mixing them with fresh meat and supplying to processing units, members of meat suppliers’ associations across the city said. With prices of lamb, cattle and poultry soaring, slipping in carcass meat could shore up the profit to a large extent and this lure for lucre was the driving force for the unscrupulous industry, they said.

 
 Similarly, the criminal practice of using non-edible meat in eateries also increased the profit of the owners, who bought the contaminated consignments for much less but sold at a much higher price, fit for dishes prepared out of proper meat. “There’s no crisis of any kind of meat. So, the excuse of carcass meat catering to a high demand does not work. It is a simple case of criminal practice of feeding people poisonous meat to earn more profits,” said  , general secretary of Calcutta Beef Dealers’ Association.
 
 Trade insiders pointed out the carcass meat mostly made its way to eateries and manufacturing units of processed food, like ham and salami. “People can immediately see something is wrong if raw, contaminated meat is sold in shops,” said a trader in central Kolkata. “It is easy to use the carcass meat where the form changes. For example, shops selling kebabs and tikia have to use minced meat. Similarly, at salami- and sausage-making units, contaminated meat can easily be ‘processed’, packaged and sold.”
 
 The police have said carcass meat was suspected to have been blended with edible meat and sold to city eateries as well as supplied outside. “If 1kg mutton is sold for Rs 550, mixing carcass meat in it will increase the profit as it is available for much less. Multiply this with several thousands of kilograms and the profit will run into lakhs a day. This abnormal profit is the biggest reason for unscrupulous businessmen to indulge in this practice,” said an officer.
 
 Several mutton sellers said they made a profit of Rs 50 a kg, after paying everybody. “Even if a trader blends 250gm contaminated meat, it will double the profit,” said the owner of a popular meat shop at Park Circus.
 
 Nine people have been arrested, including three last week. The trio told cops the carcass was mostly of dogs and cats. But the   said conclusion should be based on test results.
 
 
