For the best part of the last decade, 37-year-old digital consultant Ashish S says he has “slaved at work, meeting deadlines and management expectations”, working for a tech company based in Kerala. He slowly climbed the rungs of the corporate ladder, but without availing even 20% of his leave quota, in a struggle to find that work-life balance.

 When it comes to not availing the entire   quota, Ashish is not alone. A survey conducted by a UK-based airline major with 2,006 respondents revealed that 65% of employed adults had leftover holiday allowance at the end of 2017. With IT companies ushering in a new employee culture in the country, we take a look at the situation and why most employees think twice about asking for leave for more than two weeks.
 
 HR professional Aparna S, who works in an IT firm in Thiruvananthapuram, says that most of the companies have no qualms in letting employees take their leave, which is on an average 17 days a year, excluding the paid public holidays. However, it also depends on the managers, she says.
 
 “If the boss is employee friendly and the employees are consistent contributors, there’s no hassle in them availing the leave quota,” she says. “Also, especially in IT companies, employees have to work the graveyard shift and that often stresses them out. There are bosses who are cognizant of this and insist that the team takes a break so their productivity is not compromised.”
 
 The option of being able to encash the pending leaves at the end of the year is also a reason why most singles among the employees don’t make full use of their entire leave quota, adds Aparna.
 
 Employees like Ashish, though, have a different theory. “There’s this preconceived notion among most Indians that if we ask for  , it will be frowned upon and we would be under the scanner. Also, people who avail more days of leave are looked at as ‘unreliable’ workers,” he says. “That is why most of us are hesitant about applying for leave even when there is a good reason.”
 
 Listing out more reasons, HR professional Merin J says, “Most of the employees also want to show that they are vital cogs in a company’s machinery. They don’t want to give an impression that they are dispensable. Also, it’s sort of ingrained in our psyche that if we work for longer hours, it means we are more hardworking.”
 
  
  
 
 Merin though says there is some merit in that line of thinking, especially in today’s world where companies “are trying to be lean by employing only the right amount of personnel for a job”. “In a private banking institution or risk-intensive companies, if the employees take the two weeks’ leave they are entitled to, they might not have a job when they return,” she says.
 
 While some new-age companies such as Google and Standard Chartered Bank force their employees to take block leaves of two weeks mandatorily, they are still expected to be in the official loop.
 
 “A company would be reluctant to let the employee be totally detached from work because it disrupts business continuity or poses risk, in terms of strategic decisions. That’s why employees are given access to official repositories and are allowed to track work when they are on vacations,” she says.
 
 But doesn’t that defeat the purpose of a vacation? Another HR professional Sita Mary Thomas, who is employed in an IT firm in Kochi, says, “As you climb the corporate ladder, the responsibilities increase. So, while a junior employee can enjoy the vacation without any interruption, a senior official is more accountable to the customer and his higher authorities. While another employee will always be assigned to overlook the job during a person’s absence, the person will still voluntarily keep in touch with the stand-in to track the progress.”
 
 Meanwhile employees cite job insecurity and getting an edge during review ratings as the two reasons for not making use of the vacation days. But how much do pending leave actually matter for the appraisals? “It is entirely manager dependent,” says Aparna. “Employers now see if the person is dependable and accountable. Instead of those working for longer hours without a break, they prefer those who are able to prioritise and work smart. If an employee is unproductive and takes leave unreasonably, he or she will obviously be caught in the long run.”
 
 While a major percentage of those working in Kerala are still circumspect about taking vacation days, there has been a change in the last two years, says Sita. “In my company, it used to be single people who didn’t use up their annual leave. However, these days, both men and women are availing the days as quality time for themselves. They either travel or use the time to pursue their passions.”
 
 For Ashish though, it was his onsite visits to South Africa and Australia in the last two years that served as an eye-opener in terms of achieving that perfect work-life balance. “In South Africa, my team and I used to be at the office at 8 am and leave after 7 pm while the local employees would report at 9 am and leave at 4 pm, on the dot. Similarly, in Australia, none of the employees, including the bosses, stayed back after 5 pm. They don’t even respond to official mails outside their work hours. This gives them enough time to enjoy a life apart from work – something I believe most of us lack. That’s a practice I think we must also follow,” he concludes.
 
