PATNA: No vehicle will be allowed for certain time period on January 21 on all those routes in the district where   will be formed against dowry and child marriage, said Patna DM Kumar Ravi, SSP Manu Maharaaj and traffic SP P K Das in a joint statement on Wednesday.

 However, one side of the roads will be kept open for emergency services like ambulance, mortuary van, vehicles used by people associated with legal services and media. Even travellers going to Patna Junction or airport can travel by showing their tickets. 
 
 The officials said commercial vehicles would be prohibited from 9am and private vehicles from 10am till 2:30pm. In Patna, the human chain will be formed from Gandhi Maidan. It will branch out from gate number 1 through Biscomaun, JP roundabout, Dakbungalow crossing, income tax roundabout and Saguna Mor to Koilwar bridge via   and Ara Mor at Bihta. Another branch will start from gate number 7 towards   up to Deedarganj. The third chain from Gandhi Maidan up to Ara Mor will be formed through Golghar, Rajapur Pul, Mainpura, Digha, Danapur and Jaitpur while the fourth one will move out from gate number 10 via Ram Ghulam Chowk to Exhibition Road flyover, Dhunki Mor and, Old Bypass up to pillar number 38 of Gandhi Setu.
 
 The human chain will also be formed from southern end of Chiraiyatand flyover towards New Bypass via Karbigahiya and Mithapur bus stand to Sipara, Parsa Bazar and Masaurhi. The one starting from Punaichak will pass through Eco Park, Gate number 2 of Patna zoo, Patel roundabout, Chitkohra roundabout, Anisabad, Phulwari sarif police station, AIMS-Patna, Naubatpur, Bikram, Dulhin Bazar to the border of Arwal district via Paliganj. 
 
 Short-distance chain in the state capital will also be formed from Patel roundabout till IPS Mess via Raj Bhavan and from Hartali Mor to Rajapur Pul through Boring Road crossing. The chain from Gulzarbagh will go to Pashchim Darwaza via Sudarshan Path and Nawab Bahadur Road. 
 
 The district administration has also chalked out alternate route for that day. From Patna Junction, vehicles can move towards airport via R-Block, Hardinge Road, Chitkohra overbridge and Patel roundabout. Vehicles from Patna Junction towards Bailey Road will be allowed up to Hartali Mor and from there they will be diverted towards Daroga Rai Path. From Dakbungalow, the movement of vehicles will be allowed towards Kadamkuan via Exhibition Road crossing and Nala Road. From Bakerganj, all the vehicles will move towards Ram Ghulam Chowk and then towards Exhibition Road to reach Patna junction via Goria Toli.
 
 
