Former   FC manager   is still adjusting to life in India where he doesn’t know when and where his team will train the next day.
 
  “I am trying to adjust to what’s happening here with  ,” said Grant, now coach of NorthEast United FC in the Indian Super League.
  
  Grant has endured frustrations during his two-month stay in the country and it appears he will go out with a red card that he picked up in the last clash after stepping on to the ground to separate two warring players.
  
  India is a completely different world to what the Israeli manager has experienced in the past, particularly life in the English Premier League where he coached three teams: Chelsea FC, Portsmouth and West Ham. His stint at Chelsea FC, where he took them to the final of the UEFA Champions League in 2008, is most fondly remembered after he surprisingly replaced  , the self-styled Special One.
  
  “I was with him for three months (at Chelsea) and enjoyed quite a lot. He is a guy with lot of knowledge about football. But he also has problems. Mourinho is not a genius like people think. He is a very, very good coach, and he is not useless, like people said last term (when he was released by Chelsea FC). He is one of the best coaches in the world and he also has problems. Still, he is one of the best,” said Grant, who was handed charge of the team by his friend and owner Roman Abramovich.
  
  Mourinho’s coaching abilities are under the scanner again as his relationship with Paul Pogba makes headlines and he negotiates a tricky run of matches which will probably be the defining period of his time at  . Champions League last-16 clash against Sevilla and two big Premier League clashes against Chelsea FC and Liverpool should provide for a big test of Mourinho’s abilities.
  
  Despite the obvious problems, Grant has been left in no doubt that Mourinho can succeed at Manchester United but feels the Special One must change his ways.
  
  “I think he can succeed. He needs to change his ways because Man United always like to play attractive football. I know there is criticism this season but I don’t agree (entirely). They are scoring a lot of goals. I think they can also do it in a different way and play attacking football. I don’t think they are playing defensively. (But) They can do more than this. They don’t need to be so far behind Manchester City (in the Premier League),” said Grant.
