Navratri, the Indian festival of nine holy nights celebrates the victory of the goddess Shakti over evil. The days fall on the nine auspicious days as per the lunar calendar of Hinduism. The festival is celebrated with an ardent fervour which is rare on any other festival of the country as it is a nine-day long celebratory mood during which people observe fasting. Each day during the nine-day festival is special, with significance that relates to the goddess Durga in her various incarnations.

 Day five is dedicated to goddess Skandamata. Lord   is known as Lord   and hence goddess Parvati is also known as Skandamata. Day 5 of the   festival is dedicated to   - mother of Lord Skanda. The goddess rules planet Budha (Jupiter).
 
 Carrying a baby Murugan or Lord Kartikeya, brother of Lord Ganesha, Skandamata mounts on a ferocious lion. The goddess is generally depicted with four hands - carrying lotus in two hands, she is holding baby Murugan in one hand and keeps the other hand in ‘abhaya mudra’. 
 
 
 
 
 The puja of Skandamata is not complete without chanting mantras and offering her bananas. After offering her the fruit, the prasad must be given to a brahman. Since the goddess rules the planet Budha, this puja helps in enhancing your intelligence. You must decorate the pujasthan with flowers and offer the goddess water, rice, sweets and fruits. Do not forget to put a chandan tilak on her forehead. Married women also put sindoor (vermilion) instead of chandan or roli to safeguard their relationship with their husband forever. The favourite flowers of goddess Skandamata are red coloured flowers so you can offer her red roses.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The complexion of Skandamata is shubhra, which means bright and radiant. This day's colour has a very beautiful significance as it reacts to a powerful vulnerability of the mother when it comes to her child. Just like the colour grey, she can turn into thunderstorm whenever any harm comes near her child. Skanda mata is the mother of Karthikeya, also known as Skanda. She carried him in her womb when she was chosen as the commander by the gods in their fight against evil, the demons.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 जय तेरी हो अस्कंधमाता 
 
 पांचवा नाम तुम्हारा आता 
 
 सबके मन की जाननहारी 
 
 जगजननी सबकी महतारी 
 
 तेरी ज्योत जलाता रहू मै 
 
 हरदम तुम्हे ध्याता रहू मै 
 
 कई नामो से तुझे पुकारा 
 
 मुझे एक है तेरा सहारा 
 
 कही पहाड़ो पर है डेरा 
 
 कई शेहरो मै तेरा बसेरा 
 
 हर मंदिर मै तेरे नजारे 
 
 गुण गाये तेरे भगत प्यारे 
 
 भगति अपनी मुझे दिला दो 
 
 शक्ति मेरी बिगड़ी बना दो 
 
 इन्दर आदी देवता मिल सारे 
 
 करे पुकार तुम्हारे द्वारे 
 
 दुष्टदत्यज बचढ़कर आये 
 
 तुम ही खंडा हाथ उठाये 
 
 दासो को सदा बचाने आई 
 
 'भक्त' की आस पुजाने आई 
 
  
  
 
 
 ॐ देवी स्कन्दमातायै नमः॥
 Om Devi Skandamatayai Namah॥
 या देवी सर्वभू‍तेषु माँ स्कंदमाता रूपेण संस्थिता।
 नमस्तस्यै नमस्तस्यै नमस्तस्यै नमो नम:।।
 
 
 
 
 या देवी सर्वभू‍तेषु माँ स्कन्दमाता रूपेण संस्थिता। नमस्तस्यै नमस्तस्यै नमस्तस्यै नमो नमः॥
 Ya Devi Sarvabhuteshu Ma Skandamata Rupena Samsthita। 
 Namastasyai Namastasyai Namastasyai Namo Namah॥
 
