BENGALURU: A number of political observers believe the forthcoming assembly elections will rank among the ugliest and the most violent in the state. The issue of murders for political gain has already become a moot point with leaders like   making. But will 2017-18 be the worst?

 Data for 17 years of the new millennium shows that the state has gone only one year (2000) without a political murder. On an average, more than five such murders are reported every year and a total of 90 killings have been reported in this period.
 
 Of the 90 murders between January 2000 and December 2016, 21 were reported in two years — 2004 (10) and 2005 (11) — and 10 in 2016, data from the   shows. NCRB, which has not made such a classification for years prior to 2000, is yet to compile figures for 2017. However,   home minister Ramalinga Reddy told TOI that there were about five such murders last year, taking the total to 95.
 
  
  
 
 The number may pale in comparison to   (including Telangana) or Kerala, which have more, but   fares better than Karnataka, which accounts for 11.78% of political murders in South India.
 
 While murders of political leaders were seen in districts like Kolar, Kalaburagi, Raichur and Belagavi even in the 1990s, they were driven mostly by personal political rivalry. However, the landscape changed in the late 1990s with two national parties facing off. This new brand of violence, marked by communal overtones, is wrecking coastal Karnataka, analysts say.
 
 Sandeep Shastri, pro-vice chancellor, Jain University said: “There has certainly been an increase in such murders in the past 15 years. While one cannot overlook the fact that this has coincided with the rise of the  , no one party can be blamed for it.”
 
 Bolwar Mohammed Kunhi, Sahitya Akademi award winner and a political observer from Dakshina Kannada, while accusing the   of mistreating Muslims and the BJP of provoking communal incidents, said both parties are taking advantage of the vulnerability of people and their lack of awareness.
 
 Maruti Manpade, CPI(M) leader from north Karnataka, believes violence in north Karnataka has reduced. “Coastal districts have become the epicentre of such activity in the last decade or so and that has led to a decrease in violence in north Karnataka,” he said.
 
 While Reddy laid the blame squarely on the BJP for the increase in political murders and refutes allegations of mismanagement of power, the BJP blames Congress.
 
 “The indications are all there for people to see,” Sunil Kumar, the BJP MLA from Karkala said. “How did organisations like PFI and SDPI become popular in Karnataka and why did the Congress withdraw cases against them in 2014? The Congress is supporting groups that we feel are inherently violent. Their record in Kerala is well documented. If you notice, a lot of murders happening in Karnataka are in districts bordering Kerala.”
 
 Iqbal Bellare, SDPI’s Dakshina Kannada secretary, refutes the charge and accuses the BJP of making allegations that it can never prove. Reddy claimed the government will soon provide proof of BJP’s involvement.
 
 “Until now the police arrested those involved in the murders, charged them and left the matter in court,” Reddy said. “Now, they have been directed to extend the investigation even to those conspiring to kill and hiring people to implement their plans. In the next two or three years, you will not see any such murders.”
 
 
