LUCKNOW: The three youths who kidnapped the 16-year-old La   student had pointed a gun at him. Their motive was clear: to seek Rs 3 crore ransom from  's father for his safe release. TOI met Class XI student Arnav and his businessman father Anoop Agarwal at their Suryoday colony home on   on Tuesday for the first-hand account of their ordeal. 

  The driver  , who was also the mastermind, had shrewdly planned the kidnapping and had devised an alibi in advance that gave him a head start and helped him in going out of the city without being stopped by cops. Arnav could be traced within eight hours due to his father, Anoop Agarwal's alertness, habit of taking care of smallest details and keeping tab on everyday developments. It was at 11.12am on Monday that Agarwal informed UP-100 about his son's kidnapping. He had little hope of finding his son as mobile phones of both Santosh and Arnav were unreachable. Talking to TOI at his residence in Suryoday Colony opposite NBRI a day after the incident, Anoop said, "Had Santosh changed the vehicle and not used my Mahindra XUV, it would have been impossible to trace Arnav. The first crucial lead was generated in the form of XUV footage from Purania and Itaunja." 
 
 As he maintains a database of all 15 employees who work as personal helps or at his office, Santosh's address in Maanpur was noted down and quickly passed on to Sitapur police. Santosh's father was also picked up from the automobile showroom on   where he works. "I know Santosh's father for 15 years. It was because of that trust that I decided to hire his son. I will not be able to trust any driver with my children's safety now," said Agarwal. 
 
 Santosh and his accomplices had planned the crime in advance. He usually left Suryoday Colony to drop Arnav at 8.30am every day and came back by 9am. But last week, he returned at 9.30am. 
 
 On being pulled up, he told Agarwal that he had some work at his house on Shahnajaf Road and asked Agarwal not to turn anxious in case he gets delayed by 30 minutes.
 
 
