MUMBAI: The  's (MSSA) controversial decision to give   a walkover over   (Kandivli) after the latter failed to reach the ground on Day Two of their Giles Shield semifinal because of the Maharashtra bandh on Wednesday has met with a fair amount of criticism.

 Despite the city coming to a virtual standstill, the MSSA decided that the matches would go on as scheduled. While   (Matunga) and VN Sule Guruji turned up for their game at the Parsee Gymkhana, Rizvi Springfield were left waiting for Swami Vivekanand at the Police Gymkhana after the latter's school management refused to give the team permission to travel on the grounds that riot-like conditions prevailed in their area.
 
 Criticising the MSSA's call, former India skipper and the chairman of the Mumbai Cricket Association's ( )   (CIC) not too long ago, Dilip Vengsarkar told TOI on Thursday: "It's very unfair for Swami Vivekanand to go out of the tournament in this fashion. These are extraordinary circumstances (riots) which must be taken into consideration by the authorities. We did shut our academies for two days as young players come from far suburbs by trains, buses, autorickshaws and there's a danger to their lives as stones are thrown and buses burnt."
 
 "  must get an opportunity to play their match immediately. Every school team works hard throughout the year to get the highest honours and provide a platform for their students. This is no way to handle things. The Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) must intervene," he lashed out.
 
 Swami Vivekanand have already lodged a protest with the MSSA, asking the match to be replayed. A top MCA official hinted that the association may accede to the school's demand and reverse MSSA's decision. "This is wrong. We'll take it up with the MSSA," he said.
 
 Rizvi Springfield coach Raju Pathak, though, defended the MSSA on the contentious issue. "Firstly, the situation was pretty normal in the morning. There were three teams which turned up to play their matches," said Pathak. "Five players in my team came from Borivili itself. The point is, would this have happened if we were all out for 150 on Day One, and not 350 for three," he pointed out.
 
