KANNUR: The murders of a local   leader Babu Kannippoyil and an RSS activist   on Monday night led to widespread violence in and around Mahe on Tuesday. A vehicle of   police and the local office of the RSS was set afire at Irattappilakool under the Palloor police station in Mahe.

 Police said the vehicle was parked near the RSS office and CPM workers set them ablaze while bringing Babu’s body in a procession to his house near Palloor after postmortem at the  , around 4.30pm. Babu’s body was cremated in his house compound.
 
 While only the exterior of the RSS office was damaged, the police vehicle was completely gutted in the fire. The people who were part of the procession also attacked several flag posts and waiting sheds built by the   and the RSS. Police also said there were reports of attacks on houses and shops in Mahe and New Mahe following the hartal called by the CPM and the BJP separately to protests the murders. Since Babu used to take part in social issues, especially in helping people get proper compensation for their land acquired for the NH widening, hundreds of people had gathered for the funeral.
 
 Police said Babu’s murder was a planned one and a case has been registered against four people based on a complaint filed by CPM. However, more people might be involved in the murder and investigation had only just begun, they said. Shamej’s murder was apparently an act of retaliation, they added. As usual, normal life was affected in the harthal in Kannur and Mahe. While shops and commercial establishments remained closed, vehicles were stopped at several places, though they were exempted from harthal.
 
 Since both the slain people were from neighbouring areas, police had made sure that the funeral processions did not clash with each other. However, since Babu’s funeral was held before Shamej’s body was brought from the  , a tense situation was averted. When Shamej’s body was brought to his home, protests by party supporters sparked tension and the police had to intervene and use stun grenades. His body was also cremated in his house compound.
 
 Meanwhile, CPM district secretary P Jayarajan alleged that the BJP-RSS was behind Babu’s murder and that the role of RSS leaders should be investigated.
 
 He also said the Shamej’s murder was unfortunate and said the party did not approve it, he said. The BJP claimed the Sangh Parivar organizations did not have any role in the murder of the CPM leader. At the same time, Shamej’s killing was planned and a probe should be initiated into it, demanded BJP district president P Sathyaprakash.
 
 BJP state president Kummanam Rajasekharan said that the law and order in the state has completely broken down. Speaking to reporters in Chengannur, he said: “It is the responsibility of the police and the home department to bring an end to the murders in the state at any cost.
 
