Your presence on   could not only opens doors to influencer videos and branded content, it may also land you a job. Companies and   are leveraging the platform to get hold of freshers in creative roles, or for  . Fresh-out-of-college  , who post selfies and videos on the platform, could be notified of job vacancies as well.

 Firms such as  ,   and   now hire through the platform. While evaluating the eligibility of candidates on social media, companies are moving away from posting offers on job portals and reaching out to referrals to attract talent. Globally, larger companies such as  ,   and   use Instagram to post job ads and the trend is now prevalent in Indian startups.
 
 Startups say that scouting for talent through Instagram reduces hiring costs by 15-25% and it works best for entry-level jobs or interns. Aagam Mehta, co-founder of art-based startup Floating Canvas Company, says that potential candidates with an inclination towards art are generally active on Instagram to build their profile. “The reach is better if you post job vacancies on the Instagram page and promote it to a targeted audience. For instance, I wanted to reach out to artists in Mumbai and the targeting was much easier. Also, since most of their work on Instagram is public, there is easy access and the quality can be gauged. We were able to get good artists on board through the post,” he says.
 
 The platform provides scope for visually-appealing content. Companies post about job vacancies through puzzles, or videos on a day at work, to entice employees. While some firms post direct recruitment notices, others let it sink in through regular photos and videos on the work culture. Fintech startup Instamojo, for instance, has its Instagram account dedicated to showcasing how the company is employee-friendly. “We have had comments on how Instamojo is a cool place to work in and also had referrals linked to the post. We aspire to have potential employees look us up on Instagram before they decide to apply,” says Akash Gehani, co-founder, Instamojo.
 
 HR players say that the engagement is easier and more narrowed down as promotions are targeted. “The average age group of users on Instagram is from 14 to 22. So, getting better access to newbies is possible. Plus, the millennials spend more time on platforms such as Instagram and Snapchat, rather than Facebook or LinkedIn. This form of hiring is suitable for social media-savvy profiles such as marketing, or creative roles like design,” says Subhendu Panigrahi, co-founder, Skillenza, a community-hiring platform.
 
 
