TRICHY: A 36-year-old woman who was declared brain dead at a private hospital in Trichy has given a new lease of life to patients in Trichy, Madurai and Chennai as seven of her organs, including the heart were harvested and sent to various hospitals.

 The harvesting of organs belonging to G Janaki from Malaikudipatti village near Iluppur in Pudukottai district began at the Cethar Hospitals in Trichy early on Tuesday morning. 
 
 The heart and lungs were allocated to the Fortis hospital and   in Chennai respectively. Both the organs were airlifted to Chennai by an   flight at 9am. Since the harvesting took place around 6am when the traffic was less, the organs were taken to the   without creating any green corridor. 
 
 The liver was used for a patient with end-stage liver disease who required a cadaveric transplant at Cethar Hospital. The kidneys were allocated to two private hospitals in Trichy. Both the eyes were taken by Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in the city.
 
  (Transtan) confirmed that the heart and a kidney of the woman gave a fresh lease of life to two poor patients at Fortis and a private hospital in Trichy under the chief minister’s comprehensive health insurance scheme (CMCHIS).
 
 Janaki was riding pillion with her relative at Iruthurapatti near her village on March 6 when she lost balance and fell on the road. In the impact, she sustained severe head injury. 
 
 After first aid at a primary health centre in Illuppur, she was shifted to a government medical college hospital in Pudukottai following which Janaki was moved to a private hospital in Trichy.
 
 “Investigations revealed severe brain stem injury for which she was treated by critical care physicians and neurosurgeon with ventilator support in intensive care unit. But the patient fell very sick and was certified brain dead on Monday night,” said managing director of Cethar hospitals, K Karthik. 
 
 The woman is survived by her husband, Gurunathan a daily-wager and four daughters. 
 
 
