NAGPUR: The first meeting of Board of Visitors (BOV) of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) took place in June 2015, helmed by BOV chairman Union transport minister  , and attended by other ministers. The board had been re-constituted in March 2015, after a gap of three years, and raised hopes of solutions to problems faced by the general public. However, three years down the line, there has not been even one BOV meeting.

 Citing Gadkari’s busy schedule, current BOV member South Nagpur BJP   Sudhakar Kohale said a formal meeting hasn’t been possible. “Gadkari is chairman of the board and no meeting can take place without his presence. He calls meetings in his office whenever confronted with a problem at GMCH or a new idea,” said Kohale, adding that if any member calls to complain, action is taken on the issue.
 
 The idea behind BOV is to put forth problems of general public in front of hospital authorities, and bring in transparency in the affairs of the hospital by including members of the society. “When we were members, we used to have compulsory monthly meetings. We would form groups of four or five days before the meeting, and pay surprise visits to different departments of the hospital,” said ex MLA and former BOV member Dinanath Padole. Many changes took place during that time, with issues such as cleanliness and duties of class IV labourers improved, he added.
 
 GMCH dean   said, “We keep communicating about what is to be done and what not. We went to Gadkari two-three times to ask for a meeting. He asked what work we had, and called a few people to his office itself. For every work, he is involved. The work is happening, and his secretary and personal assistant are also working on it.”
 
 “Usually, medical authorities don’t want meetings, as the members pinpoint lacuna in the functioning. Nowadays, no member takes interest the way ex-members Dinanath Padole or Ramesh Bang took. At that time, we had also requested MP   to accompany us at 8.30am in GMCH, and monthly meetings were a must,” said ex-member Dr Vithalrao Dange, a medical expert and paediatrician.
 
 The other members of the current BOV include Gajanan Janbhor from Lokmat group of newspapers, woman representative from backward class  , woman social worker Jyoti Janbandhu, male technical expert Subhash Raut, male social worker Sunil Kadghaye, specialist  , and social workers Kishore Dhawale and Manish Fayhe.
 
 
