JAIPUR: Get ready to shell out more money if you wish to add a police band in the wedding of your kin. Various units of Rajasthan police who have their bands are now planning to charge more for weddings and other functions. They have sent a proposal to the home ministry in the state government to revise the charges of the band.

  include the   (RPA) which is a stationary band while others like the   ( ) and commissionerate are moving bands and have been used by the general public during weddings. Since the rates of booking were not being revised since 2005, the officers have sent a file to home department asking for revision of the charges.
 
 While talking to TOI on Tuesday, additional director general- police and welfare Bhupendra Dak said, “We have sent a proposal in this regard to the home department. It is a routine process. Last time the charges were revised in 2010. Our bands are used not just for weddings but also for other state and private functions.”
 
 According to senior officers, these police bands charge different rates in Jaipur and other district headquarters.
 
 “Police bands are very popular in every district not just for the weddings but also for other private functions,” said an officer with RAC.
 
 Officers added that for Jaipur, the existing charge for 1 hour for full band is Rs 7500 and for half band is Rs 5000. On the proposed increase, a senior officer on the condition of anonymity, said, “For full band that will play for an hour the revised rates could be Rs 11,000 and for half band it is proposed to be Rs 7000. It is upto the home department to finalize the rates. After we moved the file seeking revision in the charges, the home department has sought some queries.” 
 
 In districts including Ajmer, Bhilwara, Kota, Bikaner, Udaipur, Jodhpur and   the existing police band rates are Rs 5000 and 3000 an hour for a full and half band, respectively. While for the other districts of Jhunjhunu, Dausa, Sawai Madhopur, Nagaur, Baran, Rajsamand, Sirohi, Dholpur and Tonk it is Rs 3000 for a full band.
 
 Police bands charge Rs 5500 for one hour while Rs 10,000 is the charge for 3 hours. Senior officers ahead of the upcoming wedding season were seeking the clearance from the home department for revision and increament of these charges.
 
 “They have asked for doubling the charges which is not possible. We have asked them to revise the rates with some minimal increase of 10 to 20 percent. It is not that their proposal has been bluntly turned down,” said a senior officer of the home department.
 
 According to sources, the home department is not convinced with the extent of increase proposed by the Rajasthan police headquarters. “The revision of charges is under process. Nothing concrete has been decided as yet,” said an officer.
 
 
 
