NAGPUR: For Dr Neil Tolley’s, noted ENT consultant and surgeon at   in London, it was his first ever visit to India. He was part of the 25th medical surgical camp conducted in   by   of Nagpur South.

 The camp was conducted from January 16 to 18, followed by a two-day thyroid surgical workshop on January 20 and 21. He was here to teach participating surgeons but says he instead found many things to learn.
 
 Apart from being photographed incessantly by the tribals in Melghat,   returned with several memories to share. “I was happy to see the people, and they were happy to see me. I admire the stoicism I saw in the people there,” he said, adding that the condition of tribals did not surprise him as he had read about their situation and was well versed with the famine that struck India in 1974.
 
 Speaking about the camp, he said, “The principles of practice weren’t compromised and the equipment were in place. The huge logistics and amount of planning really struck me. All the patients were assessed the same way.”
 
 Tolley said that he comes from an environment where all the equipment were there at his disposal. “I was surprised to see top surgeons performing quality procedures using basic equipment. People from all over India came and gave their time.”
 
 He also expressed his astonishment regarding Cervical Epidural Anaesthesia, a technique of administering anaesthesia to patients without making them faint by anaesthetizing only one section of nerves and used by the surgeons in that area only.
 
 He said that ENT specialist Dr   is a fantastic leader who knows how to get the teams together, and the initiative wouldn’t work without him. “I’ll remember a line that Kapre often repeated during the camp: You arrive to earn, you live to serve.”
 
 Speaking on his observation of India, Tolley said it is a country of wide diversity. “There is huge contradiction in wealth and access to health among other things. Here, I find super-wealthy to those who are incredibly poor. In the UK, wherever you go, there is uniform health care access to all,” he said, adding that India is both, first-world and third-world. The problems suffered by people in remote areas may never be addressed.
 
 “We were told that if the camp was organized during the time of harvest, people wouldn’t come as they cannot afford to spend the time of work. We don’t see the extreme kind of medical problems in the west. It will be nice if the government of India can do a bit more by subsidizing medical equipment required for such causes,” he said.
 
 Tolley added that several talented doctors from India populate the world, but the country faced limitation of resources to provide for its population of two billion.
 
 
