A  , assaulted and abused by a 39-year-old in an   that she had boarded with her friend from the   on Thursday night. The accused,  , was arrested after the girl   She recounts her ordeal to TOI.

 We, my friend and I, were waiting for an auto right opposite the police station after having dinner at a restaurant off Prince Anwar Shah road. We lit a cigarette and had almost finished it. It was around 10.30pm then. Suddenly, a person lunged at me, trying to grab my cigarette. “Give me a drag, baby,” he said.
 
 
 I stepped back and warned him that I’ll drag him to the police station if he tried that again. An auto came and we hopped on to it. This person also made a dash for it and sat beside me. He kept abusing me and my friend, denigrating our character, even taunting values instilled by our parents. Then he started touching me inappropriately. I started screaming and shouting. The auto driver stopped the vehicle and asked the person to sit beside him. He sent the other passenger, who was sitting beside him till then, to sit beside me.
 
 The abuses turned worse. He even brought up the Dum Dum Metro issue and said: “Girls like you should be kicked in public”. I asked him to stop but he kept reeling out his “connections”. He called us sex-workers and animals. Spotting a police patrol van at Bagha Jatin, the auto driver stopped. While getting off, this person hit me again. Realising that he may try to run away, I held on to him. He slapped and kicked me hard. He tried to tear my clothes off. But I held on to him. My friend came to my rescue.
 
 Four persons, possibly fish traders, came to our aid. They pinned him down and dragged him to the police van. He was put inside. I then kept calling our student body leaders in the university but none came to our aid. Two of my classmates, however, reached there to be by my side. A police officer reached the spot and questioned the accused. He asked us what the person did. I told him that I would be more comfortable to speak to a lady officer and urged him to lodge a formal FIR. We went to the Netaji Nagar police station around midnight and lodged the complaint.
 
 Our only worry is that this accused lives in the same locality where my friend stays. She wanted to lodge a GD but was dissuaded from doing so.
 
