

 CHENNAI: As the TOI team left its car and recced the   by the  , it came across a herd of cows crossing tracts of parched land. A local shepherd had let his cattle loose in the heat, and the animals sauntered across the sun-baked mudflats that were once fertile land.
 
 As far as the naked eyes in bright sunlight went, one could see the vast expanse of Kaliveli lake -- home to thousands of migratory birds, a haven for rare reptiles, teeming with fish and despite its rich flora and fauna, capable of supplying drinking water to far-off Chennai.
 
  
 About 135km from the city, this lake in Villupuram district is the second largest brackish water lake in southern India after Pulicat. Resembling a triangular watershed that is spread across Tindivanam , Marakkanam and   , the 740sqkm waterbody could be classified into three distinct zones: Kaliveli floodplain where fresh water stagnates, Uppukalli creek for salt cultivation and Yedayanthittu estuary where migratory birds feed and breed. The lake also shares revenue boundaries with more than 20 surrounding villages.
 
 But for a decade now, illegal shrimp farms set up by local bigwigs inside the wetland have been taking a toll.
 
 R Sarvesh Kumar, an environmentalist from Marakkanam, said those running the farms damaged a century-old check dam which protected the fresh water from intrusion by saline water. The farm owners used chemical feeder for better and quicker yields and discharged the hazardous untreated water back into the lake thereby contaminating the drinking water source for surrounding villagers.
 
 The lake’s flood plain, once a prime source to fulfill the irrigation needs of local farmers, turned saline and farmers were forced to give up farming. They then sold the agricultural lands to shrimp farm owners.
 
 The Kaliveli floodplain, where fresh water stagnates, was earlier spread across several hundred square kilometers, but today it has shrunk to 50sqkm. Nearby villages -- once known for their fertile land and abundant paddy production – nowadays struggle to find drinking water for the livestock. Hundreds of villagers, who continued to consume the contaminated water, were recently diagnosed with kidney ailments.
 
 “Two years of struggle to evict the illegal shrimp farms through National Green Tribunal went in vain as the shrimp farm mafias bribed officials and continued to run the business illegally,” Sarvesh said.
 
 Saravanan*, a 24-year-old from   village near Marakkanam, said he had a kidney ailment like many ignorant villagers who consumed contaminated water. “In Aalapakkam village itself more than 20 people have kidney problems,” he said.
 
 Saravanan said recently an NGO visited the village and tested water samples. The members concluded that untreated water discharged from the farms had triggered the kidney ailments.
 
 Local youth said rich shrimp farm owners, who are politically influential, foisted fake cases against villagers who opposed the illegal business. Some villagers were forced to migrate fearing police action.
 
 A senior PWD official from Villupuram said the British-era check dam was damaged to set up illegal shrimp farms. “At least one thousand million cubic feet (2,800 crore litres) of fresh water is wasted in the absence of a dam every year,” he said. The official said fresh water from the   lake could be utilised to fulfill drinking water needs of Chennai if prevented from flowing into the sea.
 
 While the locals are already battling the impact, the rich biodiversity of the lake is also in danger. According to Dr M Bubesh Gupta, founder of Universal Eco Foundation, an NGO working to reinstate the biodiversity surrounding Puducherry, Kaliveli lake is a breeding spot for around 165 rare species of migratory birds from all around the world. “It is home to 49 species of fish, 38 species of mammals, 37 types of reptiles and 15 species of amphibians,” he said adding that roughly 1.50 lakh migratory birds visit the lake here. If illegal shrimp farms mushroom, the ecosystem will be hit.
 
 Professor P N Ballukraya, water expert and former faculty of applied geology at the University of Madras said it was essential to remove the farms and protect the lake. “Groundwater depletion and sea water intrusion could be controlled by building a check dam, but the farms should be immediately removed,” he said.   said the district administration should intervene and provide medical assistance to the villagers besides providing them safe drinking water.
 
 When contacted, Villupuram district collector L Subramanian said he would form a special team to track and evict illegal shrimp farms. The official said a proposal to build a check dam across the Kalivelli lake to stop further intrusion of saline would be forwarded to the state government.
 
 *Name changed
 
 
