GREATER NOIDA: Four suspected bookies were arrested on Friday evening for allegedly running an   racket in a rented flat in   Society in Greater Noida.

 Abhishek Singh, SSP UP-STF, said   had received a tip-off that some bookies were operating in Noida. “We received information that the bookies had good connections across Delhi-NCR. They also maintained contacts with people in the Gulf during IPL matches,” he said.
 
 Acting on the tip-off, a team of the UP and Noida STF raided the 11th-floor flat — number 1101 — and arrested three of the accused. Police said they found Rs 21 lakh in cash, 40 mobile phone sets, three laptops, two Wi-fi modems, one mobile signal booster antenna, three LED TVs and one printer.
 
 The three arrested from the flat were identified as Ankit Aggarwal, Shyam Vohra and Shailesh Agarwal, all residents of Agra. A fourth, Jatin, a resident of   in Haryana, was also arrested later in the evening. 
 
 Satya Sen, DSP UP-STF, said the alleged bookies were earlier based in Agra but gradually shifted base. “This IPL season, they shifted to Greater Noida as this seemed a more lively place. The accused got a flat on rent and started operating the racket through mobile phone applications,” he said.
 
 The SSP STF said that during questioning, the four had told the cops they used an application — Cricket Liveline — which gives real-time updates on cricket matches. “The updates given are a few seconds earlier than those in TV channels. The bookies put a bet on each ball. A participant lost the money if his prediction was not correct,” he said.
 
 Police said a case under the gambling act would be registered against the accused. 
 
 Raj Kumar Mishra, DSP of Noida-STF, said Shyam Vohra was the mastermind of the racket. “He had roped in some other persons. Jatin used to shift cash from one place to another and facilitated the racket,” he said.
 
 Investigators said around 500 people were directly involved in the betting network. A primary investigation has shown that each member had joined on the recommendation of at least one existing member. “The bookies earned around Rs 20 lakh on each IPL match through the betting,” Mishra said.
 
 
