BHOPAL: In a shocking incident which has further worried parents, a school van driver on Monday left his schoolbus in the middle of the road leaving 15 home-bound girls unattended. The driver reportedly made the move after finding a sudden inspection drive by regional transport officials on his way.

 The incident occured when the kids of the   were going home after the school. The driver drove for 1.2 km from school and upon learning traffic cops and   were on a checking spree, left the vehicle on middle of the road and escaped.
 
 The van was ferrying 15 girls of Class 4 and 5. The kids were left in the van for almost 35 minutes unattended causing heavy traffic jam on the busy road.
 
 According to school principal  , the driver was almost close to the spot were checking of school vehicles was going on before he escaped fearing to get detained. “We were informed by one of our security guards who fortunately witnessed the scene. He had noticed a massive traffic jam due to a school bus. Curious to what was going on, he reached the spot only to find our kids left unattended inside the Van,” Mathew told TOI.
 
 After leaving children to fend for themselves, the bus driver called their parents and told them the van has suffered a mechanical glitch and therefore he won’t be able to drop the kids home.
 
 “He called the parents and asked them to reach school to pick up their wards. He cited reason of having faced technical fault in the bus to the parents,” the school principal further informed.
 
 She said as soon as the school got to know about it, emergency calls were made to all parents and were summoned to school immediately.
 
 “I called all the parents and held a meeting with them. The parents are responsible for putting their kids in risk. They think vans are cheap but they don’t bother to consider the safety part,” she stressed.
 
  on Monday launched a drive to check school buses flouting norms and seized eight vehicles ferrying school children which included buses and vans.
 
 Speaking to TOI, regional transport inspector   Tarunpal Singh Badodiya, who led the drive on Monday, said that the incident happened when the team had left for another spot near a school.
 
 “It is very common among drivers — They inform each other that checking is going on to help each other escape. Besides, it is highly unfortunate to say that 25 school buses and van have been seized in past three days and all of them had not a single required document,” He told TOI.
 
 Leaving a small child unattended on a school van should be a wakeup call for parents, he asserted.
 
 The bus driver is likely to face charges for leaving small kids unattended on a busy road. According RTO Bhopal (incharge) Sanjay Tiwari, the RTO will take up the matter for appropriate action against him. The driver as per school has gone hiding and is not attending calls of school administration. He is said to have absconded because he has no relevant documents to show.
 
