NEW DELHI: On day one of the Fed Cup Asia-Oceania Playoff ties, Indian team captain   had said that it was a case of missed opportunity with the team against China after they had failed to win the clash, faltering in deciding doubles clash. On Saturday too, Bhambri will walk away with the same feeling — of what might have been!

 
 Although India managed to retain their place in the   I, avoiding relegation with the win over Chinese Taipei on Saturday, if India’s No. 1 player   just found a little more support — in singles or doubles — India might have been battling for a much better placing after losing hard-fought ties to China and Kazakhstan 2-1 on the first two days.
 
 “I just feel that it was a very tough tournament in totality. The team played better with each passing day, they put in the hard yards every day after the end of the tie to ensure they were prepared for the next day,” team captain Bhambri said, analysing the tie.
 
 “I did think a lot about the combination every day. We went with the best possible options that we had on the day. Karman had the crowd support, she was playing at home and she got better every day. Yes, we could have done better in doubles and if we had, we would have been in a different league,” the captain added.
 
 The biggest gain for India from this Fed Cup tie no doubt was the performance of their No. 1 player Ankita Raina. She won all four of her singles tie, including wins over higher-ranked players like Lin Zhu of China and   of Kazakhstan and gave India a fighting chance in every tie they played.
 
 On top of that, she played doubles matches as well on the first two days in matter of just half an hour after single matches. “I think I got really good matches which adds up to my experience. The biggest challenge was to recover and I am doing and getting better with recovery. My trainer and mom were here, so that’s a great help in helping out with things,” Ankita said about her week here.
 
 On the performance of Ankita Raina, captain Bhambri said, “Ankita should try and recoup and understand the things that she had learned here. She should be aiming to play higher tournaments, day in and day out. You become a much better player when you play these top tournaments because lower circuit is a grind. She has the game, one break and her ranking can shoot up.”
 
 It remains to be seen if Indian and Ankita Raina can build on their gains from this Fed Cup week.
 
 
