Besides being International Labour Day, May 1 is also celebrated as   and  . The date holds special significance for both states -- it was 58 years ago that the existing states of Maharashtra and Gujarat were formed, hence the celebrations. 

 
 On the occasion, several leaders tweeted their greetings, among them President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Maharashtra chief minister  .
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 The States Reorganisation Act, 1956, defined boundaries for states within India on the basis of languages. The Bombay State formed under this act had people speaking various languages like Marathi, Gujarati, Kutchi and Konkani. But having two linguistic units in one state didn't seem to work.
 
 The Sanyukta Maharashtra Samiti was at the forefront of the movement to divide the Bombay State into two states — one where people primarily spoke Gujarati and Kutchhi and the other where people primarily spoke Marathi and Konkani. Simultaneously, in Gujarat, this demand for separate states was spearheaded by the Mahagujarat Movement. The term Mahagujarat had been coined before Independence and had then included the Sindh region, which had gone to Pakistan during Partition.
 
 While both the Samyukta Maharashtra Movement and the Mahagujarat Movement had the same mission, certain elements ended up clashing over which of the new states would get India's financial capital Bombay, which ended up being part of Maharashtra.
 
 The states of Maharashtra and Gujarat thus came into existence according to the  , 1960 enacted by Parliament on April 25, 1960. The act came into effect on May 1, 1960. Under the Bombay Reorganisation Act, Maharashtra and Gujarat were divided and both states attained statehood.
 
 Although additional changes to India's state boundaries have been made since 1956, the States Reorganisation Act of 1956 remains the single most extensive change in state boundaries since the the country’s independence in 1947.
 
 
 
 Maharashtra Day is commemorated with a parade at Shivaji Park, Dadar. The state governor, state reserve police force, BMC force, home guards, Mumbai Police, traffic police, firefighters civil defence members are all part of this parade. Various cultural events and ceremonies are held showcasing the culture and traditions of Maharashtra.
 
 While most schools and colleges are already shut due to summer vacations, it's also a public holiday and banks, stock markets and offices remain closed on the day. Flag hoisting is held at the district headquarters in the presence of the guardian ministers early in the morning as they pay tribute to martyrs on the day. Many eminent personalities like those from academic backgrounds, police officials, sportsmen and doctors are rewarded on the day for their notable contributions in their respective fields.
 
 In Gujarat, the day is observed across the state with parades and other government events, along with the announcement of new schemes and programmes. The main parade takes place on the Sabarmati Waterfront in Ahmedabad. 
 
 
 
