KOCHI: With   Ltd (CSML) failing to implement its ambitious projects, now they are looking at "simple" projects that can be implemented fast before March 2018. This comes after an instruction from the Centre that at least Rs 150 crore allotted to CSML would have to be spent before March 31, 2018. 

 Project management consultants ( ) firm that was asked to complete detailed projects reports (DPRs) of the projects to be implemented this fiscal is yet to submit it. 
 
 Even after one year, projects under   couldn't make any progress. Though CSML has prepared preliminary project reports on various component projects, none of them could be implemented due to the absence of viability studies and DPRs. The major reason for the inability to implement any project is the delay in appointing PMC.
 
  
  
 
 "It is up to PMCs to prepare DPRs for proposed projects. But, the appointment of PMC was held just three months ago. Normally, it would take up to six months to complete the DPRs," an official associated with Smart City said. 
 
 "PMC has made progress in DPR work. Still, it will not be an easy task to implement the projects by March 31. So, we are exploring the possibilities of implementing some projects which can be executed fast," the official said.
 
 Now, the focus is on some road projects, infrastructure augmentation and IT support at schools and a few projects related to Ernakulam General Hospital. "We had decided to renovate roads such as MG Road, Banerji Road and DH Road in 2015. Later, it has been included in Metro-allied projects. So, we think of renovating other roads which require urgent attention," official sources said.
 
 "Providing IT support and augmenting infrastructure at government schools in Smart City project is another project which can be implemented by March. Work on a women and child wing and to provide certain facilities to help patients at Ernakulam General Hospital have also been identified as projects which can be implemented easily," he said.
 
 The first annual general meeting (AGM) of CSML held in Kochi on Saturday also decided to appoint M S   and associates as statutory auditors of the mission. The appointment is until the next annual general body meeting of CSML. The AGM also decided to reappoint A P M Mohammed Hanish as the managing director of CSML.
 
 One of the major projects which had been proposed as part of Smart City was setting up a common command centre (CCC), which is to integrate and regulate all transport activities in the city.
 
 Another proposal prepared by   was integration of Smart Card provided by Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) with purposes other than transportation. 
 
