NEW DELHI: Repeating last year’s trend, the government has once again conferred the coveted Padma awards on a cross-section of “unsung” achievers who have contributed to diverse fields such as social welfare, arts, traditional medicine and healing, and even recycling of waste, all while keeping well away from the spotlight.

 
 
 The few well-known names among the 85 Padma awardees this year — which include three  , nine Padma Bhushan and 73 Padma Shri — are music composer Ilaiyaraaja (Padma Vibhushan), Hindustani classical music exponent   (Padma Vibhushan), cricketer M S Dhoni, Bhojpuri singer Sharda Sinha , painter Laxman Pai, snooker player Pankaj Advani (all Padma Bhushan), men's singles shuttler Kidambi Srikanth, actor Manoj Joshi and tennis player   (all Padma Shri).
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 The list seems to have kept out Lutyens hanger-ons,   stars and honours doctors who have been working for social welfare.
 
 "This is a recognition for Bharat and not for the high profile set," said a senior cabinet minister.
 
 None of the 85 awardees are from Delhi, which until a couple of years ago accounted for a significant share of Padma awards.
 
 As many as 16 awardees are foreigners, PIOs or NRIs from countries including Russia (late Russian ambassador to India Alexander Kadakin), Singapore (Tommy Koh for public affairs), Saudi Arabia (Nouf Marwaai, the first certified yoga instructor in Saudi Arabia and founder of Arab Yoga Foundation), Japan, Indonesia and the US.
 
 Seven of the awardees have been honoured in the fields of spiritualism and yoga.
 
 P Parameswaran, a Hindutva thinker and senior RSS ideologue who has been instrumental in building the Sangh in Kerala, had been conferred the Padma Vibushan.
 
 The Padma Shri list features Rani and Abhay Bang, doctors who over the past 30 years have transformed healthcare in Naxal-infested Gadchiroli, Maharashtra; ‘Reptile Rom’ Romulus Whitaker, a wildlife conservationist and herpetologist working in Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Tamil Nadu; Arvind Gupta, an IIT Kanpur alumnus who has been inspiring students to transform household trash into toys; and Lakshmikutty, a tribal from Kerala who has the recipe for 500 herbal medicines stored in her memory and has cured many snake and insect bites.
 
 Also included are Bhajju Shyam, a night guard and electrician-turned traditional Gond tribal artist whose paintings have been exhibited across several European nations; Sudhanshu Biswas, a 99-year old freedom fighter who runs schools, orphanages and dispensaries in West Bengal; and M R Rajagopal from Kerala who offers palliative care to terminally-ill patients.
 
 Others decorated with Padma Shri are Vijayalakshmi Navaneethakrishnan, an art exponent who preserves Tamil folk and tribal music and has even compiled an encyclopedia of the same; former ‘Devdasi’ Sitavva Joddati who has worked for women’s empowerment, especially of Devdasis, for three decades in Belgaum; oldest yoga teacher V Nanammal from Tamil Nadu; Lentina Ao Thakkar, a Gandhian from Nagaland; Sampat Ramteke (posthumous), a pioneer of sickle cell disease advocacy based in Maharashtra; and Sanduk Ruit, an opthalmologist from Nepal whose innovation in the eighties reduced cost of cataract eye surgery by 90%.
 
 Among scientists honoured with Padma Shri is the former programme director for Tejas aircraft Manas Bihari Verma.
 
 India’s first Paralymic gold-medalist Murlikant Petkar who lost his arm in the 1965 India-Pakistan war; Madurai professor Rajagopalan Vasudevan who patented an innovative method to reuse plastic waste to construct roads; Urdu poet Anwar Jalalpuri (posthumous), who translated Bhagwad Gita shlokas from Sanskrit to Urdu; Sufi bhajan singer Ibrahim Sutar from Karnataka, have been decorated as well.
 
 The Padma Shri list also features Subhasini Mistry, a poor woman from rural Bengal who worked for 20 years as a housemaid and daily labourer but went on to build Humanity Hospital in Hanspukur, West Bengal, which treats poor free of cost; midwifery expert from Karnataka Sulagatti Narasamma who helps poor women in backward regions of the state to deliver babies without charging any fee; and Tibetan Herbal Medicine practitioner Yeshi Dhoden.
 
