SHIMLA: The last place you want to get your drinking water from is the cremation ground. But with the water crisis in Shimla worsening, residents of   area in the suburbs were forced to fetch water from the local cremation ground on bypass road on Sunday. They had not got water for the sixth day and many felt that it was better to get it from the dead rather than dying of thirst. 

 Hundreds of residents blocked the national highway at Kanlog bypass for two and half hours from 4 pm as they wanted the authorities to know about their desperation.
 
 "We are extremely upset at having to drink water from a place meant for the dead. But the situation is acute and we have no option," says  , vice-president of Sanjivani Jan Kalyan Society. He adds that after their protest, a water tanker was sent to their area but was not sufficient for the 5,000-odd residents.
 
 "We had never imagined that one day we will fetch water from cremation ground. The failure of state government and MC in providing water has forced us to take such steps," adds   president of society. 
 
 
 
 The water crisis has been created by little snowfall in the region this winter. This has led to many of the channels that feed water to the city drying up. There has also been very little rainfally, worsening the crisis. BJP is heading the municipal corporation and state government and before coming to power, the party had promise 24 hours water supply to residents. Not surprisingly, some BJP leaders are up in arms against the authorities.
 
 BJP councilor from Engine Ghar Ward, Arti Chauhan, alleged that there was enough water available but wrong distribution had resulted in the crisis. “It seems only influential people and hotel owners have access to water while common people are made to suffer,” she alleged.
 
 Hundreds of residents on Sunday night even took out a protest march from the municipal corporation office to the residence of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur. They later also blocked the Chandigarh highway. “Why should the chief minister rest when we are having sleepless nights?” one of the protesters said.
 
 Police stopped the protestors before Thakur’s residence and later the police registered an FIR against Congress councilor Sushma Kuthiala, her husband and son. This however did not stop the protests. From 10 pm till around 1.30 am people were out on the roads demanding adequate drinking water from the government.
 
 Kuthiala said that people waited till 10 pm for supply and then they came to her residence demanding water. When she contacted the officials they said people would have to wait till Monday morning.
 
 “This upset residents and they asked me to accompany them to the chief minister’s residence to highlight the issue,” she added. She alleged that policemen manhandled protesting women and did not allow them to meet Thakur.
 
 
 
