LUDHIANA: Barely three months after a video of two children of a government school created uproar against school officials for allegedly making kids carry garbage bins, another video of a different school in Bhattiya Bet showing students carrying bricks outside the premises has gone viral.

 The students are from Government Primary School, Bhattiya Bet. The video has captured a group of about 10-15 primary school students carrying bricks inside the campus during the school hours. The incident reportedly happened on Wednesday when a villager passing by the school noticed these children and captured the video.
 
 Taking note, the district education department has decided to conduct a probe into the incident.
 
 In the video, the villager is seen making further inquiries from the students, who told him that the head teacher had asked them to bring bricks to school to make a flower bed in school ground. Hearing this, the man goes inside the school and is seen talking to head teacher Iqbal Singh. The video also shows the head teacher saying ‘I am not making students work for my home. They are working for their own school’.
 
 Following an argument, the head teacher is seen allegedly manhandling the visitor. Sources said, following the incident, police was also called on the spot, but the issue was resolved following a compromise.
 
 The issue however came to fore on Thursday when the video of the incident went viral on social media. When the TOI visited the school on Thursday and spoke to head teacher Iqbal Singh, he declined to comment on the issue. “Our matter has been resolved with the intervention of village panchayat and I don’t want to comment further,” he said.
 
 Students too refused to talk about the incident.
 
 Officiating district education officer (elementary)   said, “The matter has come to my knowledge and the department will conduct an inquiry.”
 
 On asking about the efforts made by department after garbage lifting controversy, the official said the department has issued ordered all schools not to allow any school student go out of the premises during school hours.
 
 On January 5, a video of Government Elementary School, Baba Sri Chand Colony of  , had gone viral in which the two Class V students were seen lifting heavy garbage bins outside the school, following which one school teacher was transferred and another suspended. But following the pressure of teacher unions, the department had revoked the orders.
 
 The matter had also reached to the Punjab State Commission for the Protection of Child Rights which had directed the former district education officer (elementary)   to get municipal corporation, municipal councils and panchayats to get their safai karamcharis to clean the school premises.
 
 Further the commission has also written to secretary, school education,  , to make arrangements for safai karamcharis in the government schools, in the view of the respective matter.
 
 
