CHANDIGARH: Should the economic growth of a nation be given precedence over its national security? The data experts who took part in the data security workshop at   were of the view that there are apprehensions in the White Paper that a stringent data law could have adverse impact on financial development. However, PEC in its recommendations after examining the White Paper on Data Protection framework for India stated that no facts support the claims that strict data laws can affect economics in the industry. 

 These recommendations were made at a two-day workshop organized by the   of Punjab Engineering College in association with  .
 
 The panelists reviewing the consequences of data protection see this as an opportunity and opined that data localization and development of Indian IT standards will promote the indigenous industry. The experts included eminent members of the strategic community, academia, military, civil society groups, legal fraternity and industry experts. They recommended that setting up of data centres of foreign investment firms in India will create new opportunities for the Indian IT skilled professionals.
 
 "The government should be motivated to setup an in-house IT industry and start-up sector focusing on development of indigenous technology. With data localization a lot of personal data of the Indian residents will return to Indian parameters thereby opening a scope for domestic data transformation projects. A number of MNCs will also be compelled to start migration projects which in turn will fetch a lot of capital," said  , head of Cyber Security Research Centre at Punjab Engineering College.
 
 Chesta Sofat, a research scholar after studying the recommendations sent by PEC, said, "We have taken into cognizance the individuals right to privacy and particularly the vulnerabilities of children including underprivileged class. The importance of digital commerce and the need to ensure innovation and entrepreneurship is not ignored is also given a thought. However, we are also conscious that economics cannot override national security."
 
 The fact that a large chunk of personal data of the Indian citizens is with the foreign companies like  , Facebook, Amazon was extensively discussed in the workshop. These aforementioned companies are not governed by any Indian laws and deliberated that focus should be on the these entities as to how they sell, hold, disseminate the data of the Indian citizens.
 
 
