  : Started in December with much fanfare, the 'she-carnival' at New Market, an innovative concept of the district administration, seems to have lost its way in a matter of a few months. Apart from a host of problems, citizens are peeved over blaring loudspeakers in the night as it disturbs their peace of mind. 

 On Saturday night, the 'smart-city' sponsored event a number of loudspeakers made life miserable for visitors to the carnival as well people residing in nearby areas. The nuisance continued for hours, with no official from   ( ) or district administration to stop it. Around a dozen policemen were present on the site to prevent eve-teasing or any untoward incident, were seen languishing around hardly doing anything to bring succour to the harried people. 
 
 "We were never taken into confidence regarding the carnival," said New Market traders' association president Satish Kumar. He admitted that the shopkeepers' response to the event has been lukewarm right from the beginning. "Given sufficient time and proper planning the carnival can be made successful," he added. 
 
 The night market is sponsored by the   (BSCDCL). The idea was to create a night market safe for women and which would remain open till 2 am on Saturday night. But the reality is quite contrary to the original concept. 
 
 "There are more dogs here than people. We tried to go to the other end of the market to get an ice-cream, but since the streetlights are on the blink and we decided to drop our plan," said  , a college student. 
 
 To make the event entertaining, the administration had put up a stage and other makeshift props, which were outsourced by BSCDCL. The compere of the programme used computer assisted singing, like a karaoke. To the embarrassment of the compere, there was only one spectator left at around 11.30 pm, and he handed over the microphone to eager amateurs. The sound control person increased the decibel level to maximum and went for a walk. It was followed by uninterrupted tunes without any melody. The cacophony became unbearable for people around. "In the day there are loudspeakers that play messages of the traffic police and a radio that plays throughout the day. This event has stolen our peace. How can a city become smart by hosting such a nuisance," said  , a resident. 
 
 The hullabaloo has hit students of nearby areas the hardest, as the loud music is threatening to ruin their preparation for examinations. 
 
 
