LUDHIANA: Hosiery industries in Sunder Nagar, Bajwa Nagar and Kalyan Nagar have to loosen the purse strings as MC has kicked off a survey to recover change of land use (CLU) charges, orders of which were issued 23 years back. 

 MC recently got hold of a letter issued by the local bodies department in 1995 while declaring these areas commercial.
 
 These three areas were earlier part of town planning scheme, but in 1995 the local bodies department declared these areas commercial. In the orders, other areas like Millar Ganj part A, C; Ghumar Mandi; Ram Park; and adjoining localities were also declared commercial. Though officials recovered the   from these areas, they did not do so in case of Sunder Nagar, Bajwa Nagar and Kalyan Nagar.
 
 The officials are tightlipped over the reasons as to why they took 23 years to implement the orders which were issued in 1995.
 
 According to the rough estimates, there are over 1,000 industrial units operational in these areas. The exact number will come out when the survey will be completed. The teams of building branch have started collecting data from the areas regarding exact number of industrial units and total area in which industries have been set up.
 
 Assistant town planner (headquarter) S S   said the survey report would be placed before the MC commissioner and mayor for taking action. He said it can help generate good revenue for fund-starved MC.
 
 Meanwhile, the industrialists are not happy with this decision and they claimed that it would destroy the industry which is already in bad condition. The industrialists rued that CLU charges are Rs 4,100 per square yard and the total cost will be between Rs 4 lakh to Rs 10 lakh depending on the area. They also complained that officials were sleeping from so many years and now they have realized the need to collect the CLU charges from the industry.
 
 Recently, the industrialists had also met senior deputy mayor Sham Sunder Malhotra over this issue who further took them to chief minister  . The industrialists claimed that the CM had assured them that they would face no problem, but the officials have started a survey in the area to recover CLU charges. 
 
 
