In February this year, Avani Chaturvedi became the first woman to fly a fighter jet solo. Avani, who is a part of the first batch of three female   who were inducted in the   fighter squadron in 2016, has not only broken the glass ceiling by scripting history, but she, Bhawana Kanth and Mohana Singh, are also an inspiration for many young women who wish to join the armed forces. Starting from last year, when   became the first woman to hold the post of   full time, to the first all-women   bikers’ contingent at the Republic Day parade and the recently-announced all-women   of the Delhi Police, it has been a year where women in uniform have proved their mettle. These trailblazers have proved to young girls in the country that they can aim to be anything from a fighter pilot to even the next defence minister. 

 On Women’s Day, Delhi University’s NCC cadets (which is like a stepping stone for a career in the forces) tell us how several conditions for women in the forces – like the mentality that only limited fields are for women, and women did not have the option to be fighter pilots – no longer apply. And the number of opportunities and the acceptance is increasing, making it the best time to be a woman in uniform in India. 
 
  
  BSF had the first-ever women bikers’ contingent at the Republic Day parade this year
 
 ‘Today, becoming a fighter pilot is also a career option for us’
 Shivani, a third-year student of LSR, says, "I am a biker and three years ago, I rode from Delhi to Shimla. This year, when I saw the BSF stuntwomen at the R-Day parade, that was a refreshing change, and something that I could relate to. Earlier, if somebody wanted to join the forces after NCC, the main options available were judicial officer, IPS or the Army, but now, we have more options like becoming a fighter pilot, or joining the BSF. Women are more empowered now, and this is the best time to make the most of it."
 
 
  
  Nirmala Sitharaman, the first woman to hold the post of Defence Minister full time
 
 
 
 Tarranum Khan, a first-year student of LSR and an NCC cadet, says, "In my family, I am the first one who has reached this level of learning. I feel the time has changed as families that are not so educated are also encouraging their daughters to join NCC and the armed forces. The time has come when women are entering those fields that people thought weren’t meant for them. Who would have thought that we would have a woman defence minister? So it’s not just that young girls are ready to take up challenging jobs, their families are also encouraging of that."
 
  
  (L-R) India’s first three women fighter pilots Mohana Singh, Avani Chaturvedi and Bhawana Kanth
 
 
 
 Mansi Chaudhary, a second-year student of Miranda House who wants to be a fighter pilot, says, "I joined the NCC because I have taken inspiration from my father who works at the Ministry of Defence, and my uncles who have been in the defence forces. I too want to be a fighter pilot, and this does not come just because of my family’s background, but also after seeing the first batch of the three female fighter pilots. I too want to be like them. Before the women fighter pilots were commissioned, I had thought of joining the Indian Air Force, but now I even have the option of becoming a fighter pilot. They are not only an inspiration for me, but for all those girls who want to do something in combat roles. My mother too wanted to join the forces, but there weren’t enough options available at that time. But the present generation and the next generation have so many more options available now."
 
  
  (L-R) NCC cadets and DU students Tarranum Khan, Bhawna Tanwar, Himanshi Dahiya, Shivani, Ratnapriya Tiwari, Mansi Chaudhary and Aastha Bansal 
 
 
 
 Aastha Bansal, a second- year student of Miranda House who also wants to join the forces, says, "Today, women are breaking stereotypes around professions considered ‘right’ for them. Women like Avani Chaturvedi, for example, have made the dream of becoming a fighter pilot for girls like us possible. According to me, there is no better time than today to join the forces because the opportunities that women can get today are more, and hence our aspirations are achievable. I am the eldest one among my siblings and I wish to lead the way for them. So I will either join the   or the Air Force."
 
  
  Avani Chaturvedi, the first woman fighter pilot to undertake a solo flight in a MiG-21
 
 
 
 Himanshi Dahiya, a third-year student of Kamala Nehru College, thinks that although women are getting more opportunities today, they still have a long way to go. She says, "I think this is the best time for women to not just be in the forces, but in other fields as well. Look at the Indian Cricket Team – today, everybody knows who Mithali Raj is, and women are getting opportunities that they deserve. But we still need to go a long way. When we have come this far, I think we can definitely expect a brighter future for women in combat roles."
 
  
  DU's NCC cadets
 
 
 
 Bhawna Tanwar, a first-year student of Kamala Nehru College, says, "Earlier, women were considered the weaker sex, but that isn’t the case anymore. They can do everything; just like we have women fighter pilots now. We have come this far because women were given those opportunities. How can they prove themselves if they are not treated equally and aren’t given the same options men have?"
 
  
  
 
 
 Ratna Priya Tiwari, a third-year student of Mata Sundri College for Women, adds, "I don’t think change ghar mein baithe-baithe aata hai. Whether it is the first woman defence minister or the first contingent of BSF stuntwomen, the families of those in the NCC have seen all of that. They now understand that we are doing this because we are serious about it. They know that we have the option of being fighter pilots if we want to. Change toh aa raha hai aur jo family ki mentality mein change hai, ussi ki zaroorat thi."
 
 
 
  
 
