VIJAYAWADA: Beating a hasty retreat, the Archaeological Survey of India ( ) on Saturday withdrew its earlier proposal to treat all shrines under   Tirupati Devasthanams ( ) as temples of national importance and taking them under its control. 

 In a letter dated May 5, 2018, T  , superintending archaeologist, ASI, Amaravati Circle, told the Executive Officer of TTD: "With reference to the letter given to the TTD executive officer, this is to inform you it has been withdrawn and hence may be treated as cancelled." 
 
 As per the earlier circular issued by ASI's Amaravati Circle, ASI wanted TTD to furnish information as it wants to examine the feasibility of considering TTD shrines as temples of national importance. Temples of national importance would mean all such constructions which are more than 100 years old will come under ASI control and any changes in structures cannot be undertaken by the TTD and can be done only by ASI. TOI had reported this in its March 31 edition that ASI is contemplating taking the Tirumala shrines under its control. 
 
 Withdrawal of earlier ASI circular was also confirmed by TTD EO Anil Kumar Singhal, who in a hurriedly convened press conference in Tirumala on Saturday evening said ASI central officials have informed him that the earlier circular issued by the ASI Amaravati circle has been withdrawn and stands cancelled. "I hope that now there is no controversy over this," he said.
 
 Earlier, when   was TTD EO, he had mooted a proposal that the TTD temples should be brought under the control of the ASI. But the proposal was withdrawn after it received much criticism from devotees as well as from various other sections. The issuing of the circular earlier and its withdrawal on Saturday comes amid a war of words between the BJP-ruled Centre and TDP-ruled Andhra Pradesh, with various TDP ministers speaking of a conspiracy from Delhi to run down the state, including taking over the TTD-run temples.
 
 Without referring to the earlier circular wherein the ASI contemplated taking control of the TTD, BJP national spokesperson GVL Narasihma Rao tweeted on Saturday, saying: "Minister of culture, Govt of India (GoI) told me there is no question of GoI taking over Tirumala/TTD or any temple or mosques. Only when a state government requests intervention, Centre considers such a request. Please stop misleading lies being spread by vested political groups."
 
