 used to make a keertanam his own, by adding some interesting tidbits to it. Once you hear MDR’s version, you would feel that something is absent when you listen to it elsewhere. Here’s how he once tweaked the Tyagaraja kriti Nanu Palimpa Nadachi Vachitivo…” Prince Ramavarma went on to narrate a story, after singing the composition Parakelayana by the legendary musician, in raag Mohanam.

 Those listening to Ramavarma on Wednesday night at Tripunithura — an annual programme held in honour of MDR for the last 16 years — were in for a double delight. They were not just treated to MDR’s evergreen compositions, but accompanying Ramavarma on stage was  . Not any mridangam but the legendary MDR mridangam, which was specially made by TVG decades ago, to accompany the musician who passed away in 1984!
 
 TVG says, “MDR used to sing at a pitch that was too low. Normally, we cannot have a mridangam for that pitch. So, I made this specially for him using blackwood (karuveetti) and it was played only when he sang. I am playing it here after all these years at this concert and it feels quite special.”
 Ramavarma explains, “It was difficult for many instrumentalists, especially violinists and mridangam players to perform with MDR as the instrument won’t go as low as his pitch. He sang in A scale, while most singers sang in D, D sharp or E. So, some of them used to make instruments specially, to perform with him.” He adds about TVG, who is also a noted Carnatic and Hindustani musician who has performed with the like of George Harrison of Beatles for years together, “Mridangam owes a lot of its innovation to him. Earlier, people used to place it on their legs and adopted a crouching posture to play it, which used to affect their back. TVG made an equipment to place it on, so that they could play in a healthy posture. Similarly, mridangam artistes used to apply a paste of rava (semolina) on it for the sound effect, which would often come off, midway through the concert. It’s TVG who made a built-in rava adhesive, which solved the problem. This was in the seventies and eighties. Traditionalists used to question it, but now everyone is following these methods. Also, he is the one who made a mridangam with fibre glass, which can be easily dismantled while travelling. Before that, travelling abroad with a mridangam was a tough task due to its size.”
 
 Ramavarma adds that he owes his musical career to TVG. “It’s his efforts for almost three years, from 1987 to 89, that urged my folks to allow me to be a musician. So, for me it is matha, pitha, guru, daivam and TVG!”
 
 The audiences at the venue were mostly those who have been frequenting the event for the past many years. Says Shankar Sivan, a school teacher, pointing at the super blue blood moon of the sky, “I would say MDR’s voice was as rare a phenomenon as that…What greater joy than listening to his Nandagopa Yasoda or Manasa Sriramuni, that too as TVG plays on his mridangam?” as he quickly gets back to enjoying the concert. Meenakshi Raman, who came to attend the concert all the way from Bengaluru, says, “MDR is my daughter’s father-in-law and I myself have been a fan of MDR’s music for years. I am here with a message for the programme and all the musicians here, from his son Balaji, who is now in the US.”
 
 The show’s organiser himself is an ardent MDR fan, R Krishnamoorthy from Kochi, who has been holding the event since 2003. He has also authored a novel, Kedaram, based on the life of MDR and the various struggles in his career and has a collection of over 200 audio recordings of MDR. “I feel that when MDR compositions are presented here, it invokes his presence, and that’s what gives me strength to hold it, every year.”
 
