Spain coach   is yet to taste defeat in the two years he has been in charge of the national team. As a goalkeeper, he was signed by Real Madrid and Barcelona, although did not get too many opportunities at both clubs. But the 51-year-old, who replaced   after Spain’s elimination from Euro 2016, has transformed the 2010 world champions into a force to again reckon with.

 
 
 
 
 
 Yes, we can. Rather, we should. There is no reason why we cannot. We have a great side. All the footballers are ready to prove their worth again in the World Cup. We are having nice preparation. There are not many injury issues to tackle with. We are confident of a better show.
 
 
 
 
 
 I was not there as the coach. So, I should not comment.
 
 
 
 Spain does not lose that many matches normally. We played the World Cup qualifiers and some friendly matches in between. And the statistics show that we had done well. There were a few big matches. Italy was in our group for qualifiers. Sad, they could not make it to the final round.
 
 
 
 
 Well, they were representing Spain in 2010 and the players will be playing for Spain now. I don’t like to think about the clubs when I am selecting the national team. Those who have performed well, irrespective of their club’s name, should get a chance to do the national duty. Iker Casillas, Sergio Ramos and Xabi Alonso were there from Real Madrid in 2010. They were as important as Xavi Hernandez, Andres Iniesta, Sergio Busquets. You need great players to form a world champion side, not how many from a single club!
 
 
 
 Yes. But that is not one of the principal criteria to select the team. You select the team according to the merit of the footballer. His position, his way of playing, his technique and his form. Since we have a great league in our country and most of the players represent these two giants in European Club football, naturally there will be players from these two clubs in the national side.
 
 
 
 Again a great league and Spanish players are playing for big English clubs now. Their performances for their respective clubs have earned them their deserving places in the squad for World Cup.
 
 
 
 If you see our performances in the last two years, we have a goal difference of more than 45, if I recall correctly. In 18 matches, we scored around 60 goals, more than three goals scored on an average. That sounds good for any team. Better teams score more than 2 goals per match. We are quite OK with these performances. Moreover, you need to win matches and score at least one goal more than the opponents. Spain conceded too few goals, only two and scored eight to win the Cup.
 
 
 
 First, Cristiano is a legend in every sense, a legendary footballer who had done wonders for his clubs wherever he had played. Secondly, we shall be playing against the reigning Euro champions. But it’s not a one-vs-one battle. Football is a different ball game. How you play as a team is the most important factor. Individuals like Cristiano can change the course of the match by their sheer brilliance in a certain moment and you cannot be prepared for that. But you have to prepare according to the strength and weakness of a certain side. Neither this is Cristiano versus Spain, nor Cristiano versus Ramos. Spain against Portugal, the Iberian Derby in a World Cup is going to be a match to remember.
 
