NAGPUR: Senior Maoist guerrillas in   district seem to be taking their setbacks seriously, as they are now conducting analysis after every incident. This apart, the reds are also threatening villagers of adjoining hamlets of dire consequences if they are found leaking information to security forces.

 In the latest development, a district source claimed that senior cadres of Maoists had a couple of days ago come to the forest of   in   sub-division to conduct a ground-zero reality check. They were there to collect insight into the firing incident, in which one of their formations was cornered around a fortnight ago. Though there was no casualty on their side, the camp had to withdraw following mounting pressure of the C-60 jawans, leaving behind substantial material of daily use and also literature, which had information about their outfits and cadres involved in various activities.
 
 The rebels had also ensured that a few villagers from adjacent hamlets, like Rahpalli, Kurumpalli and also Palle, were assembled at the forest where the firing on them had taken place. The Maoist cadres, through their supporters and militias, had ensured that none of the hamlets were left unrepresented. The villagers were thoroughly quizzed by senior cadres, who tried to collect every fine details of the incident, including movement of the forces, position of the rebels’ camp that was stormed, the directions from which the jawans had entered the forest and such details. The Maoists also tried to pressurize the villagers to share with them possible names of police informers or Special Police officers (SPO) who work as volunteers for an honorarium in each village.
 
 SP, Gadchiroli, Abhinav Deshmukh said the Maoists are known to conduct such analysis and record them for future reference. “They mostly try to find out the police volunteers to choke our information system and also gauge our movements,” he said.
 
 Sub-divisional police officer, Aheri, Gajanan Tompe said that anyone keen to share information on the Maoists would be extended utmost help, including rehabilitation to another locality, and also avail them means of livelihood.
 
 
