CHANDIGARH: With Gurgaon zone on top,   (HSVP) — formerly named Haryana Urban Development Authority ( ) — has a liability of Rs 17,485.96 crore on account of enhanced compensation for landowners in five zones across the state.   zones have been divided into five parts — Gurgaon, Faridabad, Panchkula, Rohtak and Hisar.

 Not just HSVP, the burden will ultimately pass on to the 25,000 allottees of residential, commercial and institutional units in all 30 urban estates across Haryana.
 
 Concerned over mounting arrears, the chief minister’s office ( ) has asked the state urban development department and HSVP officials to work out an alternative route to avoid litigation and the liabilities for the first time. CM  , who also heads HSVP, had directed officers of departments concerned on March 19 to come out with a workable alternative to avoid heavy liabilities. 
 
 The principal secretary to CM (PSCM), R K Khullar, is monitoring the directions issued by the CMO.
 
 Outstees are landowners whose lands have been acquired by land acquisition collectors (LACs) for carving out sectors of urban estates of HSVP. The compensation is paid by HSVP.
 
 Once the LAC announces the awards, oustees approach for enhancement of compensation. The compensation reaches a heavy amount till the cases reach finality in the Supreme Court.
 
 According to information, unpaid enhanced compensation amounts to Rs 8,483.54 crore in Gurgon. It is followed by Hisar (Rs 3,009.28 crore), Panchkula (Rs 2,880.24 crore), Rohtak (Rs 2,034.95 crore), and Faridabad at (Rs 1,077.95 crore).
 
 A delay in processing files on part of HSVP officials is being be blamed as compensation amount includes penal interest also due to delay in release of money to the litigants.
 
 Former chairman of Panchkula zila parishad and an oustee, Dhanender Singh Ahluwalia, said, “There is a total failure of system in the HSVP office. Government can reduce litigation, especially the recovery suits, in case authorities release money within given time. Officials ask for favour to release unpaid enhanced compensation and oustees prefer recovery suits because it forces HSVP authorities to submit money vouchers in courts.”
 
 MONEY MATTERS
 
 Zone | Unpaid arrears
 
 Gurgon | Rs 8,483.54cr 
 
 Hisar | Rs 3,009.28cr 
 
 Panchkula | Rs 2,880.24cr
 
 Rohtak | Rs 2,034.95cr 
 
 Faridabad | Rs 1,077.95cr
 
 
