JAIPUR: Heat wave conditions aggravated in the state on Saturday when majority of the places witnessed rise in the maximum temperatures. Churu remained hottest in the state where a maximum temperature of 45.5 degrees Celsius was recorded, the Met reports said. 

 Attributing the climatic change to the active northerly winds, Jaipur Met office said that heat wave conditions will further aggravate in the state in the next couple of days. 
 
 Jaipurites witnessed a warmer morning as a minimum temperature of 29 degree Celsius and it was followed by a scorching afternoon where a maximum temperature of 43.2 degree Celsius was recorded, hottest day of the season so far. Ongoing spell of the heat wave has also affected the footfall of morning walkers at the central park and other parks in the city. In the afternoon the roads gave an empty look as people confined themselves to their respective homes and offices. Continued rise in the mercury has also affected the power supply in the city and it has also started drinking water crisis in the some of the colonies in the city. Jaipur met office said that dust storm and mild clouds though brought some relief but that was not enough for the people in Jaipur to beat the heat. In the evening people thronged at the beverage outlets in the city. 
 
 Churu was followed by Kota where a maximum temperature of 45.3 degrees Celsius was recorded, Barmer and Bikaner 45 degrees Celsius each, Jaisalmer 44.8, Sriganganagar 44.1, Jodhpur 43.2, Ajmer 42.5, Udaipur 42.3 and a maximum temperature of 42.2 degrees Celsius was recorded in the city. 
 
 However, ongoing spell of the heat wave has also brought smiles on the faces of the farmers looking at the harvest of wheat, barely and other crops. Higher temperatures are considered to be good for these crops,
 
 In its forecast Jaipur met office said that mild showers are likely to occur at some places, however weather is likely to be dry in the state. Heat wave conditions are likely to be continued at many places in the northern and eastern Rajasthan. 
 
 
