GURUGRAM: The district administration sensitized all schools in Gurugram on Saturday for awareness on measles-rubella (MR) immunisation campaign. The campaign be held in April, during which all students till Class X will be vaccinated. 

 Under the campaign, the vaccination will be given to children once a year, for the total population immunisation. Schools will have to submit the list of all the students for the same.
 
 Under the new campaign, children under the age group of 9 months to 15 years will be immunised. Around 90 lakh children from across Haryana, including 8 lakh from Gurugram will be given the vaccination. The children will be vaccinated irrespective of their past immunisation of both the diseases or if they have been infected by the same in the past. The target is to cover 100% children.
 
 Dr BK Rajora, civil surgeon, Gurugram said that every school will have to submit a status report everyday during the drive. The schools have to ensure that all children have been vaccinated, as the target is to ensure that that there is a full coverage, and even the students who have received measles vaccine in the past, have been vaccinated.
 
 Students who will be absent on the day of the drive, will be immunised the next day.
 
 The schools were instructed on Saturday to submit a list of all students by Monday which will be used for micro-planning of the campaign.
 
 Under the month-long campaign, the health department will target schools in the initial weeks and community based, non-school going and missed children in subsequent week.
 
 The campaign will also cover hard-to-reach areas due to difficult geographical locations, un-served or underserved areas or areas with shortage or prolonged vacancy of health workers, some parts of urban areas especially unauthorized slums, railways, bus stations, make-shift huts, brothels, floating populations such as street children, and migratory populations or internally displaced populations including nomads which are present in Gurugram.
 
 Notably, the health officials will mark the thumb of the children who will be vaccinated. This will to identify the kids who have been immunized from those who haven’t.
 
