CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh district court on Wednesday dismissed bail application of Sunita, the main accused in HC paper leak case. The court of additional district and sessions judge J S Sidhu dismissed the plea after the police opposed by the plea. 

 The court observed that merely presenting a challan was not enough to grant bail as the nature of the offence was serious. Two accused in the case, Sunita and  , were produced in the court on Wednesday where they were given challan copies. The case will now come up for hearing on January 29.
 
 The defense counsel for Sunita argued that her bail had been rejected earlier as   had not been arrested and police had to obtain documents related to the results of the paper from the  , which had been sealed. The counsel added that as the chargesheet had been filed, there was no point in keeping Sunita in custody. 
 
 The prosecution opposed the bail application and said that during vigilance inquiry by the Punjab and   high court, Sunita had tried to mislead the police by giving false information. It was argued that Sunita said she was a resident of   in Najafgarh, which was verified and found to be incorrect during investigation.
 
 It was also pointed out that Sunita was arrested from the house of her sister at Gemini Park, Najafgarh. Meanwhile, the house of her brother, who was reportedly staying in Roshanpura, also in Najafgarh, as a tenant was found vacant and his present whereabouts were not known. 
 
 The prosecution said if Sunita got bail, she could threaten witnesses and tamper with evidence. The counsel said she could also jump bail as her permanent or present address were not known. The UT police pleaded that in view of the gravity of the offence, Sunita's application for regular bail be dismissed. 
 
 The court also observed that the CD conversation that has been produced as an evidence by the investigating team showed there was a link between Sunita and Sushila and the case pertained to the high court, an institution responsible for running of the administration as well. The court concluded that if granted bail, the accused could tamper with the evidence. 
 
 
