KOLKATA: While the Hindi cinema audience has never been tired of our directors using the lost-and-found trope, the real life stories of reunion don’t always end on happy notes. But what makes people exceptional is how they rebuild their lives.

 That’s how Chirma became a woman of substance. In 2010, this mentally ill   woman was lost and rescued by AVIEW — an NGO-run shelter at   in South 24 Parganas. She got better with care and medical attention. Psychiatrist  , who runs the shelter, played detective and matched the clues she offered to locate her family home. On February 15, 2016, she was reunited with her family at Telengana’s Dwaharapudi village.
 But, within two months, her family dumped her. Providing care to a mentally ill person on the recovery path was not their cup of tea. Dejected and emotionally fractured, Chirma took a year to recover.
 
 Today, this 40-year-old has rebuilt her life. She works as a cook in three houses, runs a home delivery ‘chapatti’ service that fetches her Rs 1,750 a month and takes pride in rustling up a Bengali meal all complete with ‘shutki’ fish curry.
 
 Suprakash Chakraborty, a psychiatric social worker who has seen her struggle, describes Chirma as an example of women’s empowerment. “Initially, we didn’t even understand if she spoke in Tamil or Telugu. Slowly, we deciphered her language. Chirma is the name we gave her as she used to chirp like a bird,” he said.
 
 Chirma’s family reunion is the stuff film scripts are made of. The entire village had dropped by to welcome her as their own. Her family was given medicines that would last her for two months. But the situation changed once the initial euphoria died down. Her symptoms resurfaced when her family didn’t give her medicines on time. Soon, Chirma was unmanageable.
 
 Besides, the curiosity about a single woman being abandoned in Kolkata led to other questions. Was she married? Did anything happen to her when she was in Kolkata? The villagers hounded her with questions. That only compounded her anxiety and aggravated her medical condition. The family members could no longer control her. By April 2017, Chirma was sent back to the shelter. Today, her family doesn’t even pick up her calls. For them, she no longer exists.
 
 However harsh it may sound, Chirma has come to terms with the reality. She understands wallowing in self-pity will do her no good. Survival needs other skills. Now, she speaks Bengali fluently. “I picked up the language once I returned to Kolkata. I know my family doesn’t want to keep ties with me. But people love me where I work and that’s my source of happiness,” she said with a smile.
 
 
 
 
