In a first, Bengaluru is set to witness a   festival that rekindles the alluring stories written by veteran actor-playwright  , who recently turned 80. Four plays in four languages, staged over a period of four days is the focal point of the 
 , which kick-starts today. The theatre fest – which is being organised by the Canara Union in association with Maharashtra Mandal – is taking place at  . 

  
 
 
 Theatre group Rangasiri Productions’s Kannada play, 
 , will open the festival on May 24. Director Sandeep Pai says, “Karnad’s plays are not only socially relevant, but also rich in language and structure. The intellectual value of his works is so high that most of it goes beyond general people’s understanding. He spoke about the necessity of women empowerment back in the day through his writings, enabling people to think in a completely new direction. The plot of these plays are so realistic that it becomes quite a task for us to present the dramatic pieces in a stylised format on a contemporary platform,” says Sandeep.
 
  
 
 
 The Hindi play 
  will be presented by Ankur Group on May 25. “We are really excited to be part of this unique theatre festival that celebrates intriguing folklores. The play comprises 21 actors. The storyline and its characters are different in many ways,” says director Gautam Ubhayakar.
 
  
 
 
  The Shanthaprasad Heranjal-directed Konkani play 
 , by Bhumika Group, will take centre stage on May 26. “Konkani theatre has a very niche audience in Bengaluru. And because it’s a Girish Karnad theatre festival, we are hoping that more people will come to watch our play. Although there is still a dearth of artistes, Konkani theatre has evolved manifold over the decades, with many experimental works now finding prominence on stage. In 
 , out of the 21 actors, some 17 are newcomers, which is interesting. Amateur groups are doing their bit to revive and reinvent regional theatre,” explains Shanthaprasad.
 
  
 
 
  Yuva Group’s Marathi play 
 will have its Bengaluru premiere at this festival on May 27. Director Sujay Ghorpadkar says, “We have conceptualised the entire festival keeping in mind the diversity of audience in a cosmopolitan city like Bengaluru. From a mythical tale and a folklore to stories of socio-political relevance, the theatre fest showcases a plethora of Karnad’s works that maintain a semblance with the country’s current scenario.”
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
