PATNA: The Patna high court on Friday ordered the state government to maintain status quo on the 5, Deshratna Marg bungalow allotted to leader of opposition in the state Assembly   when he was the deputy chief minister in the grand alliance government.

 The state building construction department (BCD) had asked   to vacate the bungalow after the grand alliance government in the state fell in July last year. Tejashwi had moved the high court on April 30 this year after the BCD asked him to hand over the possession of the bungalow.
 
 Justice Dinesh Kumar Singh, while hearing the matter, also directed that the case be put before another bench after the summer vacation.
 
 Tejashwi’s counsel Abhinav Srivastava and Raushan Kumar said the bungalow is of category-E and allotted to ministers according to rules and regulations. Abhinav said the position of leader of opposition is equivalent to the rank of a minister and the state government was forcibly trying to vacate it. 
 
 BCD sources said after the formation of the new government on July 27 last year, the bungalow was earmarked for use by the one who would hold the post of deputy CM, while the 1, Polo Road bungalow was earmarked for the leader of opposition. At present, deputy CM Sushil Kumar resides at 1, Polo Road. “According to department’s order, Tejashwi and Modi need to interchange their bungalows,” sources said.
 
 HC seeks DM’s reply on PU hostels issue: The division bench of Chief Justice Rajendra Menon and Justice Rajeev Ranjan Prasad on Friday ordered the Patna district magistrate and   (PU) administration to file counter affidavits about action taken so far to free Saidpur, Minto and Iqbal hostels from illegal occupants and recovery of explosives in these hostels on several occasions. The court was hearing a PIL, which was originally a written complaint by Vikash Chandra alias Guddu Baba, on the basis of a news report published on August 1, 2016 about the recovery of explosives from Saidpur hostel. The high court had turned it into a PIL. Explosives were also recovered from Minto and Iqbal hostels in May last year and on January 17 this year respectively.
 
 
