KOLKATA: Suman Ghosh’s ‘The Argumentative Indian’ will be the first   from Kolkata to get a multiplex release in the city. The hour-long documentary on Amartya Sen will be released commercially across a multiplex chain on March 9, which may be the boost their art and tribe were looking for, agree documentary film-makers.

 The film courted political controversy after the   asked for nine cuts though Ghosh finally managed to convince the CBFC chief to let it pass with just one “Gujarat” beep. The director accepted it, though many would have preferred the film to have released without a single cut, paving the way for the film’s release next month.
 
 Documentary film-makers in Kolkata have welcomed this move. Multiple National Award-winning documentary maker Supriyo Sen said he had never seen any documentary from Kolkata getting a multiplex release in the city. “This is definitely very good news,” he added. Sen’s documentary, ‘Way Back Home’, was released at Nandan in 2004, but enjoyed just a two -week run.
 
 “I got an overwhelming response from the audience. But, after two weeks, the documentary was replaced by some other movie. But I have never seen any documentary from Kolkata being released at a multiplex in this city,” Sen said.
 
 Miami-based Ghosh, now in Kolkata, says there are specialised theatres that screen documentaries in Europe and the US. “They are hugely popular. I am glad that my documentary is getting a theatrical release here. I sincerely hope that this trend continues in Bengal. The audience will get a taste of different forms of films,” Ghosh said. He is also trying for a screening at Nandan.
 
 Fellow documentary director Putul Mahmood is as elated with the news. Mahmood has helmed five documentaries: “I Shoot U” for the Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute, “Lalaepa”, “Atasi”, “Kajal” and “Three Sisters; the last three are yet to be released. “The myth that documentaries are boring has long been broken. The digital revolution is producing documentaries that are often far more hard-hitting and entertaining than fiction films and can give fiction films a run for their money. A new audience that’s hungry for more exciting and ‘relatable’ content is just waiting for this floodgate to open,” Mahmood said.
 
 But Ranajit Ray is more cautious. Ray, whose documentaries “Clay Image Makers of Kumartuli” and “Aoleang” have won the National Award, is not yet ready to say that this will set a new trend in Kolkata.
 
 “I don’t know whether this screening is happening because of personal clout. Abroad, there are communities that pay for organising documentary festivals. The audience there wants to know about the world through these works. That trend has not yet developed in India. People have started watching documentaries on   but visiting theatres to watch docus requires a different kind of preparation,” Ray said, adding that he would be happy if the Kolkata audience developed this habit of watching docus in theatres.
 
 
