In the latest episode of  ,  , who was sent in the secret room, re-entered the Bigg Boss house.

 The episode started with everyone being emotional post Anil Thatte’s eviction. Smita was seen talking to the camera and telling Bigg Boss how she is missing her mother. 
 
 She also expressed her disappointment for not being connected to her mother on call on Mother’s Day like the rest of the housemates. 
 
 Sai and   get into a discussion and try to solve the misunderstandings between them. 
 
 Rajesh is seen dancing in the secret room to entertain himself. Bigg Boss then informs Rajesh that his stay in the secret room has come to an end. So now he is allowed to re-enter the Bigg Boss Marathi house.
 
 Bigg Boss directs him to re-enter the house only when the bulb in the secret room glows.
 
 Seeing Rajesh back in the house,   gets happy and she goes to hug him tightly. He confesses his love to Resham and says “I love you”. The two get emotional and he starts kissing her in front of everyone. 
 
 Everyone in the house comes to the garden area to meet Rajesh except Usha and Rutuja.
 
 Rajesh and Resham then decide to sleep together on the same bed. Rajesh shares his secret room's journey with the housemates and told them how difficult it was to live alone. 
 
 Sai and Megha start gossiping about Rajesh and Resham’s relationship.
 
 Resham is seen telling Rajesh that his wife must be seeing all this and then Rajesh faces the the camera and confesses to his wife too that he loves Resham. He even tells Resham that his wife will understand this. 
 
 The day started with the song ‘Jeev Rangala Dangala.’
 
 Rajesh said Resham that people outside the house are loving them as a couple. Resham tells him that she is scared of Rajesh's wife. But he tells her that she is mature enough to understand everything. Rajesh then tells Resham that Megha, Sai, Rutuja, and Usha hate her. Rajesh even sings a love song for Resham.
 
 Bigg Boss then announces the nomination task and according to it, every contestant is given a photo of one of the co-contestants to wear. So, everyone has to convince the person who is wearing their photo. The housemates can nominate only six contestants.
 
 Resham is wearing Sai’s photo. So, Sai is trying to convince Resham to not nominate her in the upcoming week.
 
 In the end, whosoever's photo is safe, that person will be safe from the nominations.
 
 Rutuja destroys Resham’s photo and Megha destroys Jui’s photo. Jui nominated Rutuja by destroying her photo. Then Resham destroyed Sai’s photo. And so Sai destroyed Resham’s photo.
 
 Now the upcoming episode will decide, who will be the sixth contestant to get nominated.
 
 
