MUMBAI: He has been banned by the   ( ) since 2010 and forced to live in exile in London over allegations of financial misappropriation, but the spectre of former IPL czar   continues to hang over the Board.

 On Saturday—a day when India won the Under-19 World Cup in New Zealand—the Board faced the embarrassment of finding its  , bcci.tv, dysfunctional. According to a BCCI source, the glitch happened because the internet domain of the cricket body is still owned by Modi, who had not paid up for the renewal in time. The updation date was Feb 3, 2018. 
 
 Since the website is under Modi’s control following a court order, he is believed to have made the payment for renewal after the BCCI approached his staff in India. The site is now up. 
 
 TOI spoke to Modi’s lawyer and he said he was not aware of the issue. 
 
 “Modi had bought the domain of the website (from website registrars register.com and namejet.com) in 2006, ownership is still in his name. He continued to own the domain even after being banned by the Board and when he fled the country,” said the BCCI official, on condition of anonymity.
 
 The internet domain, which was valid from February 2006 to February 2018, became the subject of a   dispute in 2014 when BCCI filed a plea in the Bombay High Court seeking to get its ownership transferred to itself. They informed the court that Modi had been reimbursed by the Board for this expense. “The court directed that ownership of the domain would stay with Modi till the final verdict, but it also asked Modi to take care of the operational part (including the renewal) of the domain,” said the official.
 
 Asked why the board could not purchase a new domain name for itself, he said “Modi had purchased around 100-odd names with BCCI in them at that time, so we don’t have that option.”
 
 The bcci.tv website is registered by an internet company called Perfect Privacy LLC, which is based in Jacksonville, Florida. The company is known to be used to conceal the real identity of owners of websites. 
 
 
