Mysuru/ Hassan: In a first of its kind experiment, two artists from Madhya Pradesh will perform live painting simultaneously standing opposite to the   idol during  .

 This is part of the Shravanabelagola Art Festival being curated and conceptualized by a mother and son duo —   and   Pandya — from Indore of Madhya Pradesh.
 
 Rajat told TOI that nearly a year ago his mother got the idea of holding an art festival at the time of 88th Mahamastakabhisheka in Shravanabelagola and in the month of June, the concept was given final touch after consultation with Charukeerthi Bhattaraka Swamiji of the Shravanabelagola mutt.
 
 “This is for the first time that an exclusive event of such sort will be held during the Mahamastakabhisheka. My mother Pushpa Pandya has vast experience in organising art shows, Jain theatre plays, dramas and cultural events across the country,” he said.
 
 Live painting and exhibition
 
 Pandya said that live painting in the night at the time of abhishekam will be a unique experiment. “Two artists will paint with Bahubali as the theme. Along with it, we are planning to display around 75 paintings of various artists in a 5,000 square feet art exhibition centre in Shravanabelagola at the time of Mahamastakabhisheka,” he said.
 
 “As part of the art festival, a three-day art camp was held between January 26 and 28. Around 50 artists from around the world had attended the camp,” he said.
 
 “Creation of 75 unique paintings inspired by art, history, and heritage of Shravanabelagola will be showcased at the exhibition between February 17 and 28. Also, as part of the festival, a gallery roadshow will start from Shravanabelagola and travel across the country and exhibit selected artworks. Talk shows and a panel discussion will also be organized,” he said.
 
 Beautifying the town
 
 Rajat further said that another highlight of the art festival is street wall art painting. Artists from across the country will paint under the theme of Mahamastakbhisheka, he added.
 
 
