CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy   will stay away from the AIADMK’s hunger strike agitation, slated for April 3, to protest against the Centre’s inaction on setting up the Cauvery Management Board.

 
 Party senior leaders said the decision to keep EPS and OPS out of the agitation was taken to maintain a close watch on the law and order situation and ensure that the stir did not go out of control as it happened in the case of jallikattu protests on the Marina last year. “Both CM and deputy CM are very much organizers of the event though they won’t participate in it,” asserted a leader.
 
 
 The agitation would be led by senior leaders and ministers in every district. While former minister Natham R Viswanathan will lead at Theni, OPS’ home turf, senior leader C Ponnaiayan will join the stir in Salem district, the native of chief minister Palaniswami. “This is the first protest by the party to express our displeasure against the Centre. EPS and OPS will see the Centre’s response and decide the next course of action. For now, they will only monitor the law and order,” former minister and party spokesperson S Gokula Indira told TOI. Palaniswami and Panneerselvam will be stationed in Chennai and Madurai respectively, and cabinet members, who are also district secretaries of the party, will fan out across the state.
 
 
 Former chief minister  , during her first stint in office, went on a fourday fast on the Marina to press for Tamil Nadu’s due share of the Cauvery water. The then PM P V   sent his water resources minister V C Shukla to Chennai to assure the state government that the monitoring committee would be set up. Given the “understanding” with the Modi government at the Centre now, the dual leadership of EPS and OPS would not want to antagonize the Prime Minister by taking a lead in the protests, leaders said. However, in the wake of the opposition stepping up pressure, the ruling party had to resort to some drastic steps to save its face.
 
 
 On Friday morning, EPS had announced that the hunger strike would be organised on April 2. But by night, the party hurriedly put off the agitation by a day as the cooperative society elections will begin on Monday.
 
 
 In a statement on Saturday, chief minister Palaniswami expressed disappointment by stating that the Centre could have asked for clarification immediately after the February verdict, if it wanted one. “The present petition (seeking three months time and clarification on framing the scheme) contradicts the tribunal award and SC order,” the CM said, adding that he had issued directions to the   arguing for the state in Supreme Court to see that the Centre’s petition was dismissed at the admission stage itself and ensure the formation of the Cauvery Management Board and Cauvery Water Regulation Committee at the earliest. 
 
 He also said that the main opposition, DMK, did little in getting the final award of the tribunal gazetted, despite being in power for the next four years after the tribunal award was declared in 2007.
 
