CHENNAI: IIT Madras has incubated a startup to help the founders of other startups navigate unchartered terrain in the early stages of their ventures. The initiative aims to enhance the success of early stage startups using tools and techniques based on machine learning and data sciences.

 
  Venture Engine CC Private Limited, a startup incubated at the  , was founded by Prof Thillai   of the department of management studies who has been researching the Indian venture capital industry for close to a decade now.
 
 Speaking about the venture, Rajan said information and decision-making analytics are not easily accessible for early stage entrepreneurs. “YNOS uses research insights and technology to provide information and intermediation services for early stage entrepreneurs. Using advanced marker analytics tools, our platform provides estimates of valuation and also identifies appropriate investors for the startup,” he said.
 
 The technology platform and hybrid offerings have been designed to cater to specific needs of early stage entrepreneurs. This includes providing a competitive landscape for startups, valuation estimates, identifying investors and hands-on understanding of fundraising. The YNOS team comprises of faculty, students and alumni of IIT Madras.
 
 The time has never been better for creating startups, said Rajan. However, startup mortality rates have not fallen, he noted, adding that while the funding landscape has expanded, it has also become more complex. “The proportion of startups getting funding is still low. These challenges continue to confound early stage entrepreneurs,” said Rajan.
 
 Tamaswati Ghosh, chief executive officer, IIT Madras Incubation Cell, said, “As one of India’s leading incubators with over 140 startups, we are keenly aware of the challenges that by early stage technology entrepreneurs face, especially in raising investment and finding matched mentors,” adding that YNOS would address some of these critical issues.
 
  founder  , an investor in YNOS, said startups approaching professional investors for the first time tend to be underprepared.
 
 “This causes a lot of delay in fundraising, if not completely derail it. By aiming to provide actionable information on this front, YNOS is poised to play an important role in making the early stage funding process in the country more efficient,” he said.
 
