NEW DELHI: It's been quite a while since the   has done away with the closing ceremony -- but the official broadcaster of IPL, Star, isn't leaving any stone unturned to add glamour and glitz to the   final on May 27. 

 
 A galaxy of stars comprising Ranbir Kapoor,  ,  ,   and Sonam Kapoor will grace the occasion as Star has finally arrived at the party with its trademark entertainment package. It will be a five-hour long extravaganza and before the grand finale would begin,   would actually host a two-hour prelude show -- ‘Cricket Finals…Party to Banti hai’-- in Star's entertainment channel.
 
 Not only that, two more regional languages -- Marathi and Malayalam -- would be added to the existing list of IPL commentary in six languages - Hindi, English, Tamil, Telugu, Bengali, and Kannada. Sources said that Star Pravah will broadcast the Marathi commentary with Madhuri Dixit-Nene and Swapnil Joshi while the Malayalam language feed will be broadcast on Asianet Movies. "It will be a wholesome entertainment package," a representative from Star told TOI on Sunday.
 
 Earlier, Star didn't focus hard on the entertainment quotient like the previous broadcaster barring on Sundays. But now the official IPL broadcaster is keen to change it all and promises to make it a memorable Sunday for all fans. With 350 million fans watching the live matches and another 144 million fans following their pre-match shows, this year's final is all set to create a benchmark.
 
 Meanwhile, former India coach Anil Kumble, who did the first week of IPL from the Dugout on Star Sports Select channel, is back to share the stage with the likes of Dean Jones, Scott Styris, Kumar Sangakkara, Darren Sammy, Brett Lee and Mike Hesson for the knock-out games. 
 
 In the list of commentators for the world feed, which comes under the preview of BCCI, only two Indians in Sunil Gavaskar and Sanjay Manjrekar are picked in the list of seven, which has names like Simon Doull, Graeme Smith, Michael Slater, Mathew Hayden and Michael Clarke. However, several Indian cricketers who don’t get a chance to comment on the game didn’t sound too happy with the development. With Star focusing on regional commentators and thereby allowing former state players to commentary in their mother tongue, BCCI would have to sort this issue of engaging more foreigners than Indian in the commentary team sooner or later.
 
 The logic given by the board is that the world feed would need foreigners but the former cricketers are saying it’s an Indian league and, therefore, more Indians should be made to be in the list of English commentary team.
 
