PATNA: The state is all set to get its second   on   in Banka district by June. Unlike the existing chairlift ropeway on   at Rajgir, the under construction ropeway at Mandar Hills will be cabin-type.

 Sources in the Bihar State Tourism Development Corporation (BSTDC), which is the executing agency of the project, said that around 20 cabins, each with a seating capacity for four people, would cover a distance of around 720 metre in four minutes. The work on installation of the ropeway started in September, last year.
 
 “The ropeway at Mandar Hills in Banka is being installed by M/S Rail India Technical and Economic Service (Rites), an agency of the Indian Railways. “The installation work is in advance stage and we intend to make the ropeway operational by June,” said BSTDC chief engineer Om Prakash Amberkar.
 
 The Mandar Hills assumes significance in Hindu mythology. As per Skanda Purana, the hills was used by devtas (gods) and rakshashas (demons) during samudra manthan (churning of the sea).
 
 Several archaeological artefacts have also been found near the hill including a black stone statue of Vishnu in his man-lion incarnation (Narsimha avatar), an inscription of   king   among others. The Gupta period inscription narrates that king Adityasen Gupta and his queen   installed a statue of Narsimha on the hill and the latter performed an act of piety by excavating a tank which is named as ‘Papharni’ at the foothills.
 
 Mandar Hills apart, a similar cabin- type ropeway is also likely to be made functional at Ratnagiri Hills under the Pant Wildlife Sanctuary at Rajgir in July. The ropeway at Rajgir is also being installed by M/S Rites.
 
 Each cabin would accommodate four people. Overall, this new ropeway would be able to transport maximum 800 people in an hour depending upon the number of trips. The ropeway would make one round between the lower and the upper base in 4.1 minute.
 
 The new ropeway will be an alternative to the existing chairlift ropeway at Ratnagiri hills. The existing chairlift ropeway, having 101 chairs and covering an alleviated height of over 1000 feet was gifted by the government of Japan around 40 years ago, soon after the establishment of Vishwa Shanti Stupa.
 
 
