KOTTAYAM: The row over the references made in the recently published memoirs of  , wife of   member Jose K  , took a new turn on Saturday as Shone George, son of MLA P C George, filed a complaint against Nisha with the DGP and Kottayam SP. 

 In one of the chapters in the memoir titled 'The Other Side of This Life', Nisha had narrated how she was sexually harassed by the son of a politician. In the complaint, Shone has said that the references made in the book without naming the person who tried to harass Nisha has put him under a shadow of suspicion. He said that Nisha, due to political rivalry, has purposely avoided naming the person to put him under suspicion. He also said in his complaint that he has not travelled with Nisha in train from Thiruvananthapuram. 
 
 "The references made in the book which is intended to increase the sale of the book has defamed me," said Shone in the complaint. He also said that the act of Nisha is punishable under sections IPC 500, 501 and 502 and he will move legally against her. He also demanded a detailed investigation into the train incident mentioned in the book and bring out the truth. 
 
 He has also sought to register a case against those who campaigned in the social media to defame him. In the book, Nisha had said that her tormentor spoke about visiting his father-in-law who was in hospital after an accident. From the narration it was also clear that the person was the son of a politician who was politically friends with Nisha's family at that time. There were also remarks which made evident that the father of the tormentor was of an intimidating character.
 
 Nisha had written that her tormentor had come and sat on her berth and did not allow her to sleep. The person also occasionally brushed his hands against her toes as he shifted position. Though Nisha complained to the TTR, the officer refused to act as he feared the person's father. The TTR had also said that he may find himself in trouble later as both the individuals are politically friends. Shone, in his complaint, cited that there has been extensive campaign on the social media citing that the indications she made in the book point to him.
 
 Earlier in the day, Jose K Mani said that there was no need to make a controversy out of the references made in the book and it is left to the author whether to reveal the person who has harassed her. "What she narrated in the book are incidents that would happen in the family of a politician. She only wrote about the experiences she had as the wife of a people's representative. What one should learn is the message she had tried to give through the book," Mani said. Nisha had said that the bad experience she had is a closed chapter and is not interested in making further controversies. She also said that she had included this incident in the book for the society to understand about such incidents.
 
 
