Baga/Colva: With tourist taxi operators staying off the road on Friday, several holidaymakers along the popular Baga-Calangute beach belt used the government-run   buses that were pressed into service to ferry people to   or Panaji. 

 In  , most hotel managements made arrangements to ferry their guests to and from the airport and railway stations. They even organised minibuses to ensure their patrons didn’t miss out on sightseeing and other activities. 
 
 Although a few tourists claimed to have been caught unaware by the strike, they were relieved that alternative transport arrangements had been made. “We took a direct KTC bus from Panaji to   and travelled peacefully for just Rs 20 per person. It is good the state geared up to provide alternative transport solutions for its citizens and tourists alike,” Vinayak, who travelled from Pune with his family, said.
 
 Many tourists also used the public bus systems in place across the state.
 
 Some Russian tourists who arrived on Friday, said they took an autorickshaw from the airport to Panaji and then hopped onto a public bus to reach Calangute. A few airport-bound tourists, however, rued that there should have been more direct buses from Calangute to the airport to save them the hassle of breaking their journey at Panaji. 
 
 For a sizeable chunk of holidaymakers, it was like any other day as they got around on hired scooters and cars. And, with the roads less busy due to the absence of taxis, a few even preferred walking to nearby destinations.
 
 Seasoned domestic visitors seemed to be the least affected. “After we got fleeced by taxi drivers during our first-ever vacation to Goa, we decided that if we were ever going to visit again, we’d bring our car. It has saved us any inconvenience, especially today,”  , who is visiting with her family from Mumbai, said.
 
 Sources in the travel industry said many tourists who were planning to arrive Goa on Friday, postponed by a few days when they were informed of the strike, while those who were to leave on Friday, cut their stay short and left on Thursday. A few others postponed their departure to Saturday, they said.
 
 
