JAISALMER:   and   have started practising on  , New Delhi, for the Republic Day.

 The band has been the glory of Republic Day parade for last 43 years and will perform this year too. Around 100 camels from Rajasthan frontier have reached Delhi. Camels are being provided a special diet so that they don’t get tired after the parade. They are also made to exercise for 40 minutes.
 
 The camel-mounted band is also rehearsing on many new tunes. This time, women motorcycle riders from BSF will make their debut in the Republic Day parade. Camel contingent incharge BSF deputy commandant Kuldeep Choudhary from Delhi said like every year, this year too around 100 camels from Rajasthan frontier have reached Delhi to take part in the Republic Day parade and have started preparations.
 
 Among them are 54 Camel Contingent (Marching Contingent), 36 Mountain Band and 10 Reserve Camel. The camels leave their camps at 5am every day and reach Rajpath at 6.30am. Then they rehearse for parade from 7am to 9am.
 
 Choudhary said in the evening, each camel is given 300gm of sesame oil and made to exercise for 40 minutes. The camels are being given haircuts and body massage so that their coat becomes shiny.
 
 Choudhary said that camels are being given a special diet along with cattle feed including 200gm jaggery and 170gm alum liquid so that they perform without feeling tired. Camel-mounted band that is part of camel contingent is also making preparations. They are rehearsing on new tunes under the supervision of band master inspector Phula Ram, Choudhary added.
 
 BSF official sources said, the Republic Day parade is a matchless display of the defence preparedness of the nation as well as a showcase of its diverse and rich cultural heritage.
 
 BSF troops on camels, holding various modern arms of combat and the camel band inspire as well as elevate the head and heart of millions of viewers. The band, which is a creative and innovative way of presenting martial music, has gone through various stages of evolution.
 
