BENGALURU: The   has permitted a 16-year-old   from Davanagere district to terminate her 22-week pregnancy.

 The court noted in its order that the child was conceived during rape, and the girl does not wish to continue with the pregnancy as it would create individual as well as social problems. It also noted that the apex court had permitted termination of a pregnancy in a similar case, where the   was 26 weeks old.
 
 The court also directed that the terminated fetus be preserved as it may be needed for DNA testing.
 
 After hearing the girl and her parents in his chambers, Justice Raghvendra S Chauhan directed Vani Vilas Hospital, Bengaluru, to admit her immediately.
 
 The court directed the medical superintendent of the hospital to ensure that she is discharged only after she is certified to have recovered completely.
 
 The court also said that police should collect samples of the fetus for DNA testing, to be done by the Central Laboratory, Hyderabad, which has been told to submit its report to the investigating officer within two months from the receipt of the samples.
 
 The state government was directed to bear all medical expenses towards the girl’s operation, medicine and food.
 
 ‘Mathematical problem’- BU vice chancellor requested to help
 
 The   requested the Bangalore University vice-chancellor to refer a contentious mathematical question posed in the objective test conducted by KPTCL to a subject expert in Mathematics, to give his/her opinion on the right answer from among the options given.
 
 “A person who approached the court has to be satisfied that the stand she has taken in the petition is correct or not. It is the fundamental right of a person who approaches court to have her/his case properly considered,” Justice L Narayanaswamy observed in his order on an interlocutory application filed by E Sowmya , who had applied for the post of assistant engineer (electrical).
 
 According to the petitioner, in the objective test held on July 7, 2017, the correct answer to question 83 was Option D, and this was endorsed by several experts she had contacted, including Dr B Sooryanarayan, professor and head of department, Dr Ambedkar Institute of Technology, Bangalore.
 
 She also claimed that if the correct answer to question 83 is declared as `D’, she had a better chance of selection and appointment to the post.
 
 On the other hand, KPTCL contended that they had availed of the services of Prof K B Akilesh, department of management studies, IISc, Bangalore, and Option C was the correct answer.
 
 The contentious question
 
 83. When 242 is divided by a certain divisor, the remainder obtained is 8. When 698 is divided by the same divisor, the remainder obtained is 9. When the sum of the two numbers 242 and 698 is divided by the divisor, the remainder obtained is 4. What is the value of the divisor? 
 
 The options: A 23 B 11 C 17 D 13.
 
 Hanuman statue reaches court
 
 State moves against installation of 62-ft Hanuman statue at Kacharakanahalli
 
 The state government on Thursday moved an interlocutory application before the Karnataka high court, seeking modification of a 2016 order of status quo and a restraint order vis-a-vis installation of a 62-foot and 750-tonne Hanuman statue at a site in Kacharakanahalli, East Bengaluru.
 
 Moving the application, additional advocate general (AAG) A S Ponnanna told the court that the 60-acre land where the statue is to come up is a lake, and the Chaithanya Vardhini Trust authorities, by taking advantage of the status quo order, are now trying to install the statue on the disputed land. 
 
 Justice Raghvendra S Chauhan has posted the application for hearing on April 9. 
 
 Notice to Belagere
 
 The high court on Thursday ordered notice to Kannada tabloid editor Ravi Belagere in a petition filed by Subramanyapura police seeking cancellation of bail granted to him by a city court on December 21, 2017, in a case where he was accused of giving supari to kill his ex-colleague.
 
 Justice Sreenivas Harish Kumar adjourned the hearing after ordering notice to Belagere.
 
 The police claimed that the trial court did not consider the material on record while granting bail in the case where Belagere has been charged with serious offences under IPC sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 120B (conspiracy) and incriminating material, including a pistol, were also recovered from him.
 
 
