NEW DELHI: Segregate your household waste, or be ready to shell out Rs 200 as fine. Recently notified bylaws for solid   management lay down a number of penalties for violating solid waste management rules, besides specifying monthly user fees to be paid by residents and commercial establishments for waste collection and disposal. 

 Wastepickers from various groups, however, have rejected the bylaws because they fail to lay down how informal work force will be involved in waste management. The Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, say that states will have to recognise wastepicker organisations or informal waste collectors to facilitate their participation in solid waste management, particularly door-to-door collection. 
 
  
 The bylaws don’t really talk about how this will be done. “It doesn’t talk about surveying wastepickers, issuing them ID cards or about decentralised waste management and our rights to buy and sell waste at material recovery centres. We will not accept these bylaws,” Shashi Bhushan Pandit of All India Kabadi Mazdoor Mahasangh said. 
 
 While the bylaws repeat the need to integrate informal wastepickers in waste management, they don’t talk about their role in collection or disposal chapters of the document. “No wastepicker or member from wastepickers’ organisations has been included in the committee set up by high court to implement a long-term action plan for waste management in the capital. This committee helped draft the bylaws, but MSW rules clearly state that wastepickers should be involved in planning,” Pandit said.
 
 The high court committee includes secretary, ministry of environment and forests, officials from corporations and Delhi government, environmental advocate, MC Mehta, environmentalist Sunita Narain, Isher Judge Ahluwalia, chairperson of Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations, among others. Apart from stringent penalties on both individuals and commercial establishments or RWAs, this is the first time that state solid waste management bylaws have been notified under the Environment Protection Act, a central law. What makes them more powerful is that they lay down rules for manufacturers of disposable products, sanitary napkins and diapers.
 
 All brand owners who manufacture disposable products like tin, glass, plastics and packaging will have to provide financial assistance to SDMC for establishment of a waste management system. Brand owners who market products packaged in non-biodegradable material must put in place a system to collect back packaging waste. Manufacturers of sanitary napkins and diapers should explore the possibility of using recyclable materials and provide a pouch or wrapper to users for disposal.
 
 Swati Singh Sambyal of the   said the bylaws upheld the polluter pays principle. “I think the bylaws are being misread. These are rules and not guidelines. The idea was to make the bylaws as crisp and easy to understand as possible. The committee’s report, which was the basis for the bylaws, had already elaborated on the need to integrate wastepickers and convert the 2100 dhalaos into waste processing centres.” 
 
 These bylaws will be enforced in the city in the next 3-4 months once corporations have made a proper waste-management system.
 
 
