NOIDA: The father of a seven-year old   who was killed in a Gurgaon school last September, visited Ekisha Sah’s house in Noida on Saturday to extend his solidarity and support to the family. He said he empathises with the family and would consult his lawyers to decide on further action.

 The boy was a student of Class II in a well-known CBSE school in Gurgaon’s Bhondsi. He died after his throat was slit by a sharp-edged weapon on the morning of September 8, 2017 on the school premises. The boy’s father said he could understand the pain and suffering of the Sahs who have lost an innocent child. “I support the family’s demand for a CBI probe into the matter. The role of the accused teachers should be probed,” he said.
 
 In the Gurgaon case, police first arrested Ashok Kumar, a 42-year-old bus conductor, for his murder. However, on November 8, CBI apprehended a Class XI student of the same school in connection with murder. The juvenile accused, believed to be weak in his studies, allegedly killed the boy to force school management to declare holiday in order to defer a scheduled parent-teacher meeting (PTM) and an examination.
 
 The boy’s father said, Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had set up a fact-finding committee to probe his son’s case. “The committee found that there were severe irregularities and security lapses in school premises. In Ekisha’s case too, CBSE should take stringent action against the school management and revisit the safety measures in school,” he said.
 
 He said the school management should be sensitive and responsible about students’ safety. “There is usually a knee-jerk reaction in such cases. Safety measures should be checked frequently in each school. There should be a provision to check background of candidates hired as faculty members and staff in schools,” he said.
 
 The boy’s father also floated an NGO for school children’s safety in memory of his son. The foundation, which aims to primarily work for child rights, safety and security of children in a school and funding research on subjects related to children and child psychology, will also extend support to Ekisha’s family. 
 
 Ekisha’s father Raghav Sah said he has not been informed about any progress in police investigation so far. “The Noida SSP met me the day after she died and assured a fair probe. I recently came to know that Ekisha’s answersheets were graded by other teachers. Even if this is true, I feel a conspiracy as the teachers are known to each other. We demand arrest of the accused persons in this case, or we will start a protest at Rajghat,” he said.
 
 Ekisha’s family members and friends had planned a candle march in evening but it was cancelled as they could not obtain permission from district administration.
 
 TOI is withholding the names of the boy and school following a court order.
 
 
