Priya   is in the middle of a fundraiser, surrounded by  . A social worker and former MP, the   lets us in on her latest foray. “It is a hobby I started two or three years ago. I started learning on my own and today I do a little bit of charcoal and colour pencil art - I love colour pencils,” she says. While the idea of auctioning or selling her works is one that she playfully dismisses – “I am too much of an amateur for that” – Dutt says art is an effective tool for raising funds.

 
 “Two years ago, the   had organised an art show called Pigment where we had artists from different mediums coming together. Last year was the second year of the art event in Mumbai,” she says. Now, she is in the city for a similar fundraising art exhibition – Walls With Stories – organized by  .
 
 
 
 
 “It felt great that Maadhyam considered partnering with us,” she says and you sense gratitude and relief in her tone. “We are constantly in need of funds for the various projects that we support,” she says, adding that raising funds and finding sponsors is an ongoing challenge even for “the Nargis Dutt Foundation”.
 
 “I always have people telling me, ‘Oh, but you are the Nargis Dutt Foundation - you must have enough money!’ That’s not true!” she laughs before making a candid observation: it’s easier to raise funds in the west than in India.
 
 “We have chapters abroad (in US and  ), and all we need to do to raise funds is organize one dinner and we would have people buying the tables or bidding for them. In addition, they would sign cheques right there as their contribution. Over here, you can organize any kind of event but it’s difficult to get people to contribute. It’s almost as if people here are sceptical about NGOs,” Dutt rues.
 
 
 
 Dutt has her hands full as the foundation’s trustee and a social activist but says the satisfaction she derives from it is incomparable. “Running the foundation has become a full-time job but I love it because you know that you are doing the real thing.” One such ‘real’ project that she loves talking about is a government school in   – a village barely 130km from Mumbai but sorely backward.
 
 “When we visited the village and the school, I realized that it was a different world out there. The school had two teachers, and though it had up to seventh standard, there were only three classrooms. We decided that we could do so much for the kids.”
 
 Over two years, Dutt and her team worked to turn things around. “We gave them the toilets. We gave them clean drinking water. We even had a onemonth computer training programme for the kids,” she says proudly. Today, the school in Palghar is a model she hopes to replicate in other underdeveloped villages.
 
 
 
 
 It’s a question that’s hanging in the air, with the   elections almost here: Will she contest? She definitely answers like a politician. “I don’t know.” She elaborates, “I really can’t give a definitive answer because there are issues that I have to work around. It’s not just my work, it’s also my kids. They are 10 and 12 so I am in the crazy-mother phase. Everybody asks me this question because we are one-and-a-half years away from elections but I really don’t know.”
 
