MUNGER: One   suffered severe cardiac arrest on Sunday and was rushed to the sadar   where he died because there was no bed available in the intensive care unit (ICU). Dr K Ranjan, a senior physician on emergency duty, had examined him and advised his immediate transfer to ICU for prescribed needful treatment.

 Sushil’s wife Girja Kumari, an   at the same hospital, ran from pillar to post to contact the district hospital manager (DHM) for arranging extra accommodation in the ICU for her husband. But she failed to get the favour and her husband died after an hour in the emergency ward.
 
 Dr Ranjan and a few paramedical staff were at a loss for words on the pathetic condition of the sadar hospital, the only premier hospital in   division.
 
 Yet another case on the same day speaks much about the negligence and mismanagement of the hospital. One   Sharma, a resident of mohalla Bichagaon under the Kashimbazar police station area, was rushed to the hospital with bullet injuries. The doctor prescribed for an x-ray to locate the bullet, but the x-ray room in the emergency ward was found locked. The attendants of Dhiraj tried in vain for an hour to locate the technician of the x-ray room, but could not. The patient was later referred to Bhagalpur JLN college and hospital for treatment, but he died before reaching there.
 
 District magistrate Uday Kumar Singh had inaugurated the digital x-ray functioning in the emergency ward last month for 24x7 service. But the sadar hospital management has not been able to define the word ‘emergency’ so far.
 
 Deputy superintendent of sadar hospital Dr Rakesh Kumar Sinha said he would make inquiry into it and take suitable action against the staff, if found guilty.
 
 Recently, Dr Shreenath, the civil surgeon of Munger, had to make a personal request to a private lady doctor Kavita Baranwal to rush to the sadar hospital and perform caesarean on a pregnant woman as none of the three lady doctors had come to the hospital. When the deputy superintendent tried to contact the doctors in his presence, their mobile phones were switched off.
 
 Even health minister Mangal Pandey’s visit to the sadar hospital last month has little impact on its functioning, a source said.
 
 
