KOLKATA:   is 72 now. She lost her husband 17 years ago. But, in many ways, she lost him when in the 1980s he   with meningitis and had to shift gears from a high flying corporate job to a  . She saw how he crumbled from a man, who was the heart of parties, to a man silent and depressed. This caused   when she was only a professor supporting the family with an income. Overnight, she turned to becoming the pillar for him and her two young children.

 
  
 
 
 
 At 55, when she lost her husband, Sengupta was a teacher at Loreto College and didn’t get any family pension. “I missed my husband miserably but I didn’t brood over my bereavement,” she said. Keeping herself busy with work helped her post-retirement in 2006. She began teaching at various universities and also took up the job of secretary of a research institute. She also tried her hands at doing new things. “I became the resource person for EMMRC Kolkata (St Xavier’s) history educational programmes. Twice every week, I go to Diamond Harbour Women’s University to take post-graduate classes in history. I am happy to be earning and living an independent life,” Sengupta said.
 
 Sengupta’s former colleague   is also living life to the hilt. Mukherjee retired from Loreto College in 2005. Today, she is 73 and lives alone in New Alipore. “After two and a half years of marriage, I had filed for divorce and started living with my parents. My daughter got married in 1990 and now, lives down the road. After my retirement, I started teaching students for the National Eligibility Test at the Tagore Gandhi Institute,” Mukherjee said.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Travelling, Mukherjee said, is her stress-buster. “I have a set of 2am friends. Recently, we returned from a trip to Amritsar. We love to explore new joints in the city.” Besides, she loves music and tries not to miss any important concert in the city.
 
 Ninety four-year-old Saran Singh has been single for 12 years now. After losing his wife in 2006, he became involved as the editor of ‘The Sikh Review’. “It’s a Sikh magazine circulated worldwide. Editing keeps me busy and connected to the youth,” he said. Psychologist Shubhika Singh advices senior citizens to go back to their hobbies once they retire. “They can also start learning something which they could never pursue in their youth. They should make themselves feel needed for people around by offering their skills,” Singh said.
 
  
  
  
 
 
