PONDA: The lack of a power connection is the only thing holding up the commissioning of the Rs 52-crore water treatment plant on Mhaisal dam at   in Shiroda village, Ponda despite over 95% construction work being complete.

 The project includes construction of a 10MLD water treatment plant, two master balancing reservoirs (MBR), a 300 cubic meter ground level reservoir (GLR), and laying pipelines between the dam, plant and the villages. The work has been divided into two parts. The first comprises laying of a 1.5km-long pipeline from the plant to Panchwadi village, a 11km-long pipeline from the MBR to Shiroda village and a 2.5km-long pipeline from the MBR to the GLR at Ambali. The second part of the project comprises construction of the water treatment plant, two MBRs and the GLR.
 
 “The 10MLD plant situated at  , atop the Panchwadi hillock is complete and would be commissioned within 15 days once it gets the power connection,” PWD minister Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar said. Aimed at solving the water crisis in Shiroda and Panchwadi villages, the project had an initial completion date of November 12, 2015.
 
 Commenting on the necessity of the ambitious project, Dhavalikar said the plant was being built to ensure continuous supply of potable water to Shiroda and Panchwadi villages that witness severe water crisis.
 
 PWD assistant engineer   said automation work of the fully automatic plant is also pending for want of power supply.
 
 Former   Mahadev   said that though there earlier was objection from a local against laying power cables to the plant, the issue has been resolved.
 
 Meanwhile, Devidasan A, executive electrical engineer looking after the supply, said the power connection has been cleared from his division, but the contractor concerned has to lay cables following which power department will release electricity.
 
 The project will provide about 5,000 people leaving in hilly areas like Uddaim, Torla, Dhonsoddo, Gavant, Siddh, Dabolim and Mankem with clean, safe and treated potable water, and is expected to be over by the first fortnight of next month.
 
 
