PUNE: Warm days are on their way so pack your woollies away.   ( ) forecast models are already showing a rise in the day temperatures in most parts of the country. Maharashtra too will experience warmer days from February 22.

 Parts of the state are likely to see higher than normal day and night temperatures during the run up to March when summer officially begins. Day temperatures have begun to rise in parts of the state, including Pune.
 
 IMD officials said night temperatures are likely to be significantly above the normal over most parts of the country outside south and adjoining east India between February 22-28
 
 The maximum temperatures during the day are likely to be above normal over most parts of the country outside some parts of central India till February 21, and significantly above normal for parts of the country between February 22-28.
 
 An IMD official told TOI that as the transition to March and eventually summer approaches, temperatures are naturally rising. 
 
 “As the number of active western disturbances reduce over northwest India, temperatures will begin to rise. Temperature usually drops after a western disturbance passes. The next week may therefore witness rising day temperatures. The weekly average temperature may thus be higher by 2 to 3 degrees in comparison to the normal in many parts of the country, while it may be higher than that during some days,” the official said.
 
 Though a western disturbance is likely to affect Western Himalayan region from February 20 onwards, its impact on temperatures will depend on its path. “Western disturbances bring cold and wet weather into North India. It tends to get warmer before a western disturbance approaches and colder when it passes. However, if the direction and path of the western disturbance is more northerly, then they do not seem to affect temperatures over the country much,” the official said.
 
 Till February 21, day temperature in parts of western and central Maharashtra may be higher than normal, which may give way to above-normal temperatures across the state from February 22, forecast models showed. “The number of western disturbances may decrease as we approachMarch,” another official said.
 
 
