Alona Suresh, a second-year undergraduate student of MCC ( ), who won the   and   from the Prime Minister Narendra Modi is just back to Chennai after visiting her parents in Oman. She talks to us about what made her join the   (NCC), winning the prestigious medal and how she is keen on joining the armed forces. 
Alona says that she first came to know of NCC from her college. “I studied in Oman and never knew that something like NCC existed. But when our seniors briefed us about the perks of being in NCC, I was curious. My first choice was the navy wing since it entitled us to learn scuba diving free,” she starts off. However, she says it was not that easy. “Initially, I found it extremely rigorous and often thought of quitting. For me the toughest part was to get up at 4 am for the shooting practice. But over a period of time, I found it addictive.”
 However, Alona says that the camps were meant for only those strong-willed. “There will be thousands of students and winning from among them is no joke. I was one among the three toppers in the Republic Day Camp. In addition to excelling in group items, one has to stand out in individual competitions, written test, group discussion and interview, among others.” So, did she ever expect that she would make it to the top? “Yes, somewhere I felt that I would do well. One of my seniors who was training us had actually spotted my potential. She used to say that I have that spark in me and I should work hard to win the medal. Also, communication skills make a big difference.”
 How did her parents react to her achievement? “My family members have been in armed forces. While my granddad has served the navy, my uncles are part of navy and army. My dad had told me how badly he wanted to get into military but could not make it as he failed in the medical. Also, my mom, who is a doctor, had participated in the Republic Day Parade. So they are all proud and happy.”
 Amidst all this happiness there’s one thing that made the girl extremely sad. Alona had flown to Oman with her medals, certificate and cash prize to be shown to her parents but she lost her luggage. “It has been a week and I have been running from pillar to post to trace my luggage,” she says. When she joined MCC, she opted to study English since she wanted to become a journalist. But now, she says, things have changed. “I want to get into OTA (Officers Training Academy) and become a part of navy.” 
 
 
 
