BUMBADA TAKES A SWEET BITE

 Inaugurating the   Utsav,   said, “Such celebrations help us leave our busy schedules behind and forget our stress and tension. I’m on a strict diet, but that doesn’t mean I will not have pithe or malpoa. I would like to thank all those who have taken the initiative to organise this festival.”
 
 JEWELLERY CORNER
 
 Filled with handmade jewellery and artefacts, Koyeli Purakayastha’s stall was a big crowd-puller. “Earlier, it was my hobby to make jewellery; later it turned into my profession. I have been making such items since my school days. And for the last four years, I have had stalls in this fair,” said Koyeli.
 
 ORGANISER SPEAKS
 
 “We are organising this festival for the seventh time. Our chief minister,  , has always encouraged us to hold festivals that involve a large number of people. Due to busy schedules of people, the concept of pithe puli has almost been forgotten by today’s generation. So, we took the initiative to bring together homemakers who have the passion to make such delicacies. In the first year, we had only 15 stalls, but this time, we have 82 stalls. The participation has gone up enormously,” said Sushanto Ghosh, president of Rajdanga Club, which organised the festival.
 
 CHOCOLATE HEAVEN
 
 Chocolate lovers were seen crowding one of the most happening shops of the fair, which was selling chocolate patisapta. “Children love chocolate. So, we have tried to combine the taste of the new generation with the choice of the old generation. So, you can get a flavour of chocolate and vanilla essence with the texture of the patisapta,” said the patisapta maker, Saheli Chatterjee.
 
 DIGNITARIES AT THE FESTIVAL
 
 Apart from Prosenjit Chatterjee and  , various other well-known personalities were present on the inaugural day. 
 
 MANGO IN WINTER
 
 Who says you can get mangoes only in summer? Sukla Bose helped visitors savour its taste even in winter. “The culture of making pithe payesh has almost been lost in today’s world. I tried to experiment with the age-old tradition of making pithe patisapta,” said Sukla.
 
 THE UNIQUE ONES NAKSHI PITHE
 
 Price: ₹20 per piece 
 Area of Origin: Dhaka, Bangladesh Ingredients: Moong dal, rice powder and sugar syrup 
 Recipe: Rice powder and moong dal are mixed together in equal measure. Then a paste is made is made out of it. After that, they are made into various shapes and fried in ghee. Finally, they are dipped in sugar syrup and served.
 
 GOKUL PITHE
 
 Price: ₹10 per piece Area of origin: Mathura Ingredients: Coconut, flour, wheat, semolina and sugar syrup
 Recipe: A paste is made using coconut, flour, wheat and semolina. Then the paste is made into a round shape. Finally, they are deep fried in oil and dipped in sugar syrup. State for Law and Health, Chandrima Bhattacharya, actor Monu Mukherjee, Arjuna awardee Bula Choudhury, director   and many more. 
 
