NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) fire and emergency services department has declared 19 establishments — mostly hotels and restaurants, but including one cooperative bank — unsafe. The department has also asked NMC’s water works department and Maharashtra state electricity department to disconnect water and power supplies to these buildings, chief fire officer Rajendra Uchake told TOI.

 “If the timeline given to rectify the faults is not met, the department will be forced to seal these buildings to prevent occupancy,” he warned.
 
  fire station has declared 13 establishments — mostly hotels — unsafe. Sugat Nagar and   fire stations declared two eating joints each in their jurisdictions unsafe. Similarly, Civil Lines and Kalamna fire stations have declared one hotel each unsafe. The preliminary inspections by Narendra Nagar, Lakadganj and Sakkardara fire stations did not reveal any unsafe food joints in their area.
 
 In the list of 19, the department has also declared The Akola Urban Cooperative Bank, Gandhibagh, as unsafe. These buildings have been declared unsafe under Maharashtra Fire Safety and Prevention Act, 2006, Uchake said.
 
  
  
 To a query, Uchake said before declaring the building unsafe, the department had first issued notices to the owners or occupants of the building to comply with the firefighting norms. Once a reply to the notice is received, and based on action taken, the department has proceeded to declare the buildings unsafe.
 
 Notices were also issued to 29 property owners, including dean of Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, under Section 6 of the Act for failure to comply with fire safety norms. They have been directed to undertake measures regarding fire prevention and life safety.
 
 Besides these cases, the department is also carrying out inspections of more bar, restaurants and eating joints. According to data compiled by the department, there are 44 bars and restaurants and 97 eating joints under Narendra Nagar fire station. Under Civil Lines fire station there are 42 eating joints and 45 bars and restaurants. Around 14 bars and restaurants, three saoji, and one eating joint are under Kalamna station. Cotton Market too has 35 bars and restaurants and 41 eating joints. In Sugat Nagar fire station jurisdiction, there are 13 bars and restaurants and eight eating joints. Similarly, Lakadganj station has 26 bars and restaurants, 14 eating joints and 7 Saoji eating joints. According to Uchake this data has been compiled from figures collected in 2015.
 
 According to Uchake, owners of establishments should carry out periodical checks to ensure fire safety measures provided in not only high-rise buildings but also in commercial establishments are in place, and in working condition. The onus of maintaining and providing the building fire safety equipment lies with the owners and occupants of the establishments, said the CFO.
 
 While building bylaws and other laws are in place to ensure safety of buildings and their occupants, an inspection by the fire department last year had found that around 70% high rise buildings, and even hospitals, do not comply with basic fire safety measures. TOI had highlighted these major violations on several occasions.
 
 Though the chief fire officer has been empowered to take steps to get essential supplies, such as water and electricity, to such buildings disconnected and get the buildings sealed, so far no sealing action has been carried out in city limits.
 
 
