CHENNAI: Countering the claim of Bengaluru resident S Amrutha that she is the biological daughter of J  , the late chief minister’s nephew J Deepak has said the plea is a bundle of lies.

 In a counter affidavit filed in the   on Amrutha’s plea seeking a DNA test to prove her claim, Deepak submitted that the plea was not maintainable in law. 
 
 “It is filed with bundle of lies and all such false statements even otherwise could be taken as disputed questions of facts, which are to be proved in a manner known to law.”
 
 “My grandmother Sandhya alias   had only two children – my father Jayakumar and aunt Jayalalithaa. The petitioner’s claim that Shylaja is Jayalalithaa’s sister is utterly false,” he said.
 
 In 1980, the year Amrutha claims she was born to Jayalalithaa, the latter was busy acting in four regional films and was simultaneously writing a series for a famous Tamil magazine. This apart, there was video proof of her presence at the 27th Filmfare awards function in Chennai, he added.
 
 Pointing out a defamation complaint pending against Shylaja, initiated by the Tamil Nadu government when Jayalalithaa was chief minister, Deepak said, “If the petitioner’s claim that she and Shylaja met Jayalalithaa many times in Poes Garden and Bangalore is true, why would Jayalalithaa disown Shylaja by filing the defamation case?”
 
 On the last rites for Jayalalithaa, Deepak said, “Such things depend upon the circumstances. Jayalalithaa was chief minister and leader of the ruling party. The ideology of the party and of its followers would prevail in the matter. Even otherwise, I took part in the burial and performed all rituals of the Vaishnava Iyengar Brahmin community at Poes Garden residence and at the burial ground in the presence of several neighbours and cabinet ministers.”
 
 Opposing the petitioner’s request for a DNA test, Deepak said the high court was not the appropriate forum to seek such relief as many questions of facts had to be proved.
 
 Recording the submissions, Justice S Vaidyanathan posted the plea to February 20 for further hearing.
 
 
