BENGALURU: The costs for IT services companies that apply for   visas – both in terms of filing fees and legal fees – could increase substantially following the new policy memorandum issued by the US immigration authority on February 22, said Scott J FitzGerald, partner in US immigration firm Fragomen Worldwide.

 
 The new policy lays down that officers could seek detailed documentation and more evidence from companies to establish that they have specific assignments in a specialty occupation for the H-1B beneficiary. And that they have these assignments for the entire time requested on the petition.
 
 FitzGerald said IT services companies sign two kinds of agreements with clients. The first is a master services agreement (MSA), which is an overarching framework detailing the services offered with a rate card. An   is valid for multiple years or indefinitely, but it rarely makes a reference to employees performing various services. 
 
 Then there’s the statement of work ( ), a definitive piece of work order that outlines the scope, definition of deliverables, risks, cost, timelines, and warranty/liability clauses. It may include the names of the employees. But SOWs are typically only valid for six months to one year in order to provide flexibility in planning as the project moves forward.
 
 FitzGerald said the MSA and SOW, as they stand now, could be deemed insufficient to prove the availability of “specialty occupation” work for a full three years, which has been the H-1B validity period till now (in fact, they used to be extended for another three years with few questions asked).
 
 So, FitzGerald said, it’s quite possible that visa approvals are issued for validity periods of as little as six months to one year. This means IT companies would need to apply for many more visas, which increases costs.
 
 The policy memo provides the option to submit a detailed letter from the client that confirms the duration of the engagement, as well as outlines the job duties, eligibility requirements and arrangements for supervision. “However, many end clients are advised by counsel not to provide such letters, unless they have been reviewed carefully, as doing so may increase the risk that they will be found to be a `co-employer’ of the H-1B employee by the US government,” FitzGerald said.
 
 The risk here is that if an individual files a legal claim against his primary employer, the co-employer would be jointly liable to cover any costs associated with the claim. If these risks are to be avoided, a lot more legal vetting would be required, increasing legal fees.
 
 FitzGerald also anticipates a substantial increase in H-1B petition denials. “If this becomes the case (and especially if sufficiently documented cases are routinely denied), then the only practical solution may be litigation,” he said. This, again, would mean a big increase in legal costs. 
 
 FitzGerald said he is preparing memos to the US Chamber of Commerce and US-India Strategic Partnership Forum on the issue.
 
