Nagpur: Play ‘Udhvasta Zhala Gharta Majha’, showed how a patriarchal society tries to take advantage of women. The drama was showcased at the primary competition of the 65th Natya Mahotsav, organized by Maharashtra   Mandal, at its Raghuji Nagar premises on Saturday.

 Play’s director Kartik Kavale said, “Even today women are looked down upon especially in rural areas. Wealthy men of a village are usually in connivance with some anti-social elements who are looking to take advantage of women. The play shows how these people manage to destroy a perfectly happy family.”
 
 The story focuses on five characters in a village who have been disturbed by Aaglave Mama (played by Dilip Sapate), his nephew Kalinath (played by Ashok Deshmukh). Vishwas (played by Eknath Sahare) another nephew of Aaglave is too affected by his brother and uncle when they molest his girlfriend Priya (played by Priyanka Agase).
 
 Vishwas and Priya fall in love but Kalinath had always desired Priya. After Vishwas leaves the village for higher studies, Kalinath in connivance with uncle Aaglave tries to approach Priya. The duo intercept her on a deserted road in the evening and molest her.
 
 Aaglave runs an illicit liquor business and is shown as a very wealthy man of the village. Janga (played by Siddharth Raut) was convicted of murdering his wife and son but is later released from prison. As the story progresses, it is learnt that Aaglave and Kalinath had killed Janga’s family members and falsely implicated him in the crime.
 
 To take revenge against the antagonists, Janga kidnaps Monty (played by Prayaag Borkar) son of Pratap and Divya and made it seem like Aaglave and Kalinath were involved in the crime. Following an investigation by policeman Dabke (played by Jogeshwar Lanjewar) it was revealed that Aaglave and Kalinath were involved in various crimes in past. The duo were arrested.
 
 The theatre group which created and performed the drama are from the Kamgar Kalyan Mandal in Sakoli, Bhandara. They were the 13th group to perform in the drama competition. The results will be declared on January 24.
 
 ends
 
 
