(Pictures with the photo section)

 Chandigarh: Niti Aayog member Vinod K Paul on Monday said the need of the hour is to strengthen primary healthcare and to develop a full-fledged primary healthcare system in the country. He was speaking at the India-UK Industry-Academia Symposium which was inaugurated at the CIL Seminar Hall, Panjab University ( ), on Monday.
 
 Encouraging innovations, he pushed the need for indigenous manufacturing of biomedical devices so that the country does not need to import. He said, “As a country, we need to invest highly in research.” He stressed on the presence of an industry-academia convergence centre, a glue to connect the university and industry. Dr Paul also emphasized on replicating the model of BIRAC for other ministries. Moreover, he discussed a few initiatives that have been kick-started in India for empowering and bringing about a change, such as the National Health Protection Scheme.
 
 The opening remarks delivered by Prof Arun Kumar Grover set out the need for reforms and introduced the participants to a ‘Systems Thinking’ approach towards research and innovation policy and collaborative Industry-Academia (I-A) research funding mechanisms.
 
 Andrew Ayre, British Deputy High Commissioner, Chandigarh, acknowledged the efforts of the organisers and stressed the fact that partnerships have the ability to solve societal issues globally and additionally provide other mutual benefits.
 
 Prof Sir William Wakeham Freng, Royal Academy of Engineering, UK, in his talk, emphasized on the fact that industry personnel should take active part in teaching modules of the academia.
 
 Dr Neeraj Sharma, head, policy research and technology development, DST, Central government, New Delhi, lauded the centre for the efforts towards bringing the industry and academia together. AICTE chairman Prof Anil D Sahasrabudhe highlighted the achievements of the National Innovation Foundation, and cited the success stories of grassroots and innovations from rural India. Comparing the Global Innovation Index (GII) indices of UK and India, he voiced how India stands to gain through collaborations with UK. Another aspect that he spoke about was the complex education system in the country that needs a revamp with better organization and simpler modules.
 
 Box:
 
 Virtual corridor
 
 ‘South East to North West Virtual Corridor’ between AMTZ, Vishakapatnam, and Chandigarh Region Innovation and Knowledge Cluster (CRIKC) for medical device manufacturing was launched on the occasion.
 
 
