PATNA: The   ( ) on Saturday attached movable and immovable properties worth about Rs 4.53 crore of the main accused Bachcha Rai alias Amit Kumar in the Bihar topper scam that had rocked the state in 2016.

 Several of the attached properties were in the name of his wife Sangeeta Rai and his minor daughter. This is the first action taken by the ED in the case. 
 
 The scam was related to providing undue favours to undeserving students by giving them good marks as well as making them state toppers in the intermediate examinations of Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB). 
 
 The then BSEB chairman Lalkeshwar Prasad Singh, his wife and former JD(U) MLC Usha Sinha, BSEB secretary Hariharnath Jha and some other officials are the prime accused in the scam along with Bachcha. Lalkeshwar, Hariharnath, Bachcha and couple of other people are still behind bars.
 
 ED, in a press release, said that Bachcha’s 16 plots worth at least Rs 1.99 crore in Lalganj, Mahua, Bhagwanpur and Hajipur in Vaishali district, three separate bank accounts with Bank of India’s Hajipur branch having deposit of Rs 13.46 lakh, two separate bank accounts with Canara bank and Punjab National Bank at Hajipur having deposits of Rs 20.8 lakh and 19.66 lakh respectively, were attached.
 
 “Thirteen more plots worth at least Rs 1.05 crore in Lalganj, Mahua, Bhagwanpur and Hajipur were attached along with a two-storey building worth at least Rs 18 lakh, one flat at Sarnaam Apartment in Mainpura locality of   worth at least Rs 20 lakh, three separate bank accounts with Hajipur branch of Bank of India, Canara Bank and Punjab National Bank having altogether deposit of Rs 17.24 lakh were also attached. All these properties were registered in the name of Bachcha’s wife,” ED sources said.
 
 They also said that the actual market price of the flat in Mainpura is at least Rs 45 lakh and the house is worth around Rs 55 lakh. 
 
 “They have been undervalued in the documents by Bachcha. He used to pay through cheque against the value shown on documents by laundering money through several bank accounts while rest of the payment was made in cash,” ED sources said.
 
 They said that deposits of Rs 39.01 lakh in two bank accounts with bank of India, in the name of Bachcha’s minor daughter, were also attached. “All these properties were amassed from wealth earned through the scam,” they said.
 
 “Apart from all these attached properties, ED has also come to know about a flat in Noida, another in Jasugoda in Odhisha and one house in Saraikela in Jhakhand and efforts are on to attach them as well. Sources said that these properties are also undervalued. 
 
 They said that the ED inquiry against Lalkeshwar and Usha is also going on for laundering money earned from the scam and several of their properties would be attached soon.
 
 “Investigations against properties in the name Bachcha’s Vishun Roy Memorial Trust, his father Rajdev Rai and brother Jitendra Rai are also going on,” ED sources said.
 
