PUDUCHERRY: The United Kingdom-based Primary Trustworthy   Authorisation Body Limited (PTAB) has certified an Indian project as the world’s first trusted digital repository. The   ( ), a project of Union culture ministry implemented by the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts, is the project that bagged the global recognition.

 NCAA aims to identify and preserve the cultural heritage of India available in the audiovisual form, and digitise and make it accessible to the people. The project has identified, preserved and digitised more than 30,000 hours of unpublished, non-commercial audios and videos as on March 2018. It has already posted 15,000 hours of the contents, along with contextual metadata representing the cultural diversity of India, on its website http://ncaa.gov.in/repository, said NCAA (Puducherry) regional director Sanjay Jha.
 
 NCAA has partnered with 11 governments and 10 NGOs across the country to digitise unpublished audiovisual recordings in compliance with the international standards. “The digitisation standards are in concordance with those prescribed by the International Association of Sound & Audiovisual Archives,” Jha said.
 
 Jha said the Union culture, environment, forest and climate change minister Mahesh Sharma, in his congratulatory message, said the project also aimed to establish high-speed internet network and connectivity in rural India and to improve digital literacy. The project will help preserve India’s rich culture, Sharma said.
 
 Now, the Union ministry has proposed to integrate more than three lakh hours of audiovisual material gathered from several surveys conducted in 25 cities on its platform in the next five years. NCAA pilot digital repository was developed in collaboration with the Centre of Excellence for Digital Preservation of the Centre for Development for Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Pune.
 
 Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts, has been designated as the nodal agency for a data bank on art, humanities and cultural heritage. Unesco has also identified it as the nodal agency for developing databases for South and Southeast Asian countries on art, culture and lifestyle and for standardisation, exchange, dissemination of data.
 
 
