JALANDHAR: The ‘Chetna March’ (awareness procession) to mark birth anniversary of Dr B R Ambedkar witnessed a much bigger turnout this time in   as compared to the previous years. Interestingly, the Bhima   also figured for the first time in the procession this year.

 Thousands of the Dalit community members participated in the march which started from Dr Ambedkar Park in the Buta Mandi area, and after going through the busy parts of the city, culminated at the same place. The common slogan was about guarding the Constitution of India and a model of the statute book was also displayed.
 
 A model of   memorial, raised on a vehicle, was also part of the Chetna March. “This is for the first time that we have displayed model of Bhima Koregaon even as we have been taking out this March for the last four years. Earlier, people were not aware of the battle of Bhima Koregaon but after learning about it during the controversy and violence around it a few months ago, people have started taking pride in it. We have displayed it as it symbolizes the Dalit pride,” said Som Nath, a member of the Dr Ambedkar Chetna March Committee.
 
 “This year participation has increased as there is an upsurge in the Dalit sentiment due to watering down of the provisions of the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act by the  . This was also manifest during the Bharat Bandh on April 2,” said  , another member of the committee.
 
 “I did not participate in previous marches but made it a point to become part of the Chetna March this year,” said Rakesh Kumar, a young participant. Scores of women also participated.
 
 Notably, Bhima Koregaon battle had never been a part of the Dalit political and social discourse in Punjab. For the first time, its memorial figured in the last week of January during Guru Ravidas Jayanti in Punjab. The caste clashes in Maharashtra earlier this year when the Dalit groups observed the 200th anniversary of the Bhima Koregaon battle, created awareness about that event in Punjab.
 
 
