It’s been over two years since we saw   on the big screen, but the actor tells us that in the meantime, he has been shooting for not one, not two, but seven films. His eight film, 3 Ghante 30 Dinna 30 Second, will be his second release after   (2015), and coincidently, his first and second release are both centered on love. But Aru quickly points out, “Muddu Manase was an out-and-out love story, and although   is about love, there are several other aspects in the film as well.”

 Aru plays a lawyer in the movie, and is someone who is for love, while his leading lady,   (who is a TV news anchor in the film) is against love. “If my character says something for love in the film, Kavya’s says something against it, and the arguments are such that the audience will think that both of us are right. There is a challenge between us for 30 days, during which time we embark on a journey and are joined by several different characters, through who I try to prove that love exists. The ‘30 Seconds’ in the title stands for the conclusion of the film,” says Aru. And what about the 3 Ghante (hours)? “I play a lawyer who does out-of-court settlements. Three hours is the amount of time I take to close cases,” he says.
 
 Recalling the shoot, Aru says that there was one instance that was unforgettable. “The shoot for my character’s introduction song took a total of 6-7 days. I am flexible, but not a very good dancer. Since there were 50-60 dancers behind me, I had to stand out. For this, I practised for 3-4 days and shot the song after that for three days. By the end of the week, I had put in so much into the song that I was hospitalized for two days for high fever, which later turned into viral fever,” says the actor. Despite this, Aru, who loves action sequences, didn’t use a body double for the fights in the film. “Action sequences are easier than dancing (laughs). In any case, we were shooting the action scenes last, so even if I did sustain any injuries, it wouldn’t cause any delays,” he adds.
 
 With six films lined up for release, get set to see a lot more of Aru in 2018.
 
