CHANDIGARH: Some twenty years ago,   Sharma, who works as a clerk in the accounts department of  , lost her brother in an accident at Una in Himachal Pradesh. Anita’s brother was driving a motorcycle and was run over by a speeding truck. Anita believes had her brother received timely help and was taken to a hospital in time, he would have been alive today. Ever since that day, Anita has been helping accident victims.

 “My brother died because he was left on the road dying. There were vehicles that passed through but few stopped and no one took him to the hospital,” said Anita, who has helped save at least over two dozen lives. She has taken people injured in accidents to hospitals when others just stood there as mute spectators or worse clicked pictures and made videos with their phones.
 
 “I have seen so many times that after an accident people gather around the victims but hardly anyone comes forward to help. They are scared that they will be made witnesses in the cases. They don’t even call police for help. I have also seen people clicking pictures or making videos instead of helping accident victims,” said Anita.
 
 Recalling one such accident, Anita said she witnessed a road accident in Ludhiana last year.
 
 “Two men were lying on the side of a road. There were hurt and screaming for help but no vehicle stopped. I saw some people standing at a distance with their phones pointed at these two victims. I dialled 100 but there was no response” said Anita, who rushed them to hospital.
 
 “Only one man survived. The other died on way to hospital,” added Anita.
 
 Anita, who was felicitated by Panjab University last year for rendering help to accident victims, makes it a point to accompany the victims to hospitals lest their valuables are stolen on way.
 
 Anita said that her friends and relatives used to discourage her from helping accident victims as they feared she might get in trouble but that didn’t stop her from doing her ‘duty’.
 
 “People have this fear that helping others might put them in some trouble. They are scared that cops would harass them or they would have to do rounds of courts. But I think if you are brave enough and willing to help others, you can take on any problem,” said Anita adding that her husband always supported her.
 
 “People should also learn to get sensitive about others’ sufferings and stop pointing their phones at the accident victims and start using their brains. They must help. My mother always taught me that serving a needy person is equal to worshipping God,” said Anita.
 
 
