CHENNAI: Compensation claims for road accident deaths could reach incredible limits. Just consider this: One road accident, one death, two FIRs and three separate compensation claims amounting to 1.2 crore. 

 An insurance company was flummoxed when it received three separate summonses from three different motor accident claims tribunals ( ) for the death of   in a road accident involving a truck near  . Based on the insurance company's petition seeking a high level probe into the suspected fraud and a network behind it, the Madras high court has now ordered a notice to the director-general of police. The company has sought re-investigation into the death due to road accident itself.
 
 On February 9, 2017 when Mohan was knocked by a lorry near Vandalur, his insurer, received three summonses - one from a Chennai court for a claim of 42.35 lakh, second from a Thiruvallur tribunal for a claim of 35lakh and the third from another Chennai tribunal in for 50 lakh. 
 
 Following this, the company started a private investigation, which revealed that there existed two FIRs for the same accident. This apart, while the vehicle that hit  's bike was recorded to be untraceable, the claims documents showed the registration number of a lorry as responsible for the accident. Claiming that it is a serious case of tampering and fabrication, in which police authorities are also involved, the petitioner said, "It is not known how a different version of FIR could be manufactured for convenience of claims."
 
 Noting that persons indulging in such fraudulent acts deserve to be identified and proceeded against to ensure that such acts are not repeated, the company said: "The persons guilty of fabricating FIRs are guilty of serious cognizable offences. They are liable to be proceeded against and punished for the offences, in accordance with law."
 
 The company wanted the court to direct the DGP to conduct necessary reinvestigation in accordance with law on the accident, and file a report to the court.
 
 
