PATNA: Patna   ( ) has revised the admission schedule for its undergraduate and PG courses. 

 The last date for online submission of forms for admission to BA, BSc and BCom (Hons) courses has now been extended till May 31, and that for PG courses till June 15, according to a PU notification issued on Monday evening.
 
 As per the earlier notification, the last date for online submission of forms was to end on Monday, but a decision to extend the last date was taken due to non-publication of the results of plus-two examinations conducted by different boards, including ICSE, CBSE and  , and also those of BA Hons and BCom Hons examinations of PU, said PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha.
 
 The entrance test dates for admission to undergraduate courses have also been revised accordingly. Now the tests for admission to BA, BCom and BSc (honours) courses will be held on June 9, 11 and 12 respectively. The test for admission to the Bachelor of Fine Art course has been fixed on June 13.
 
 The last date for online submission of forms for admission to MEd and LLM courses has been extended till July 31. The entrance test for admission to these courses will be held on August 11 and 18 respectively.
 
 Even though the last date of online submission of forms for admission to self-financing courses is the same as that for regular conventional courses, the entrance test for undergraduate and PG courses under self-financing mode will be held as per dates decided by the colleges concerned and PG departments in consultation with PU authorities. The dates of entrance tests for all the self-financing courses have already been decided. 
 
 There will be no entrance test for admission to the conventional MA, MSc and   courses.
 
 The last date of admission to all the undergraduate and PG courses running both under conventional and self-financing mode is July 9. Induction meet of newly admitted students will be held between July 10 and 16 and classes of the new batches will commence on July 17, according to the notification.
 
 PU has received about 15,000 applications for various courses till date. With the extension of date of submission of forms, this number is likely to cross 30,000.
 
 
