MYSURU: The assembly elections in the state are inching ever so closer, and ticket aspirants, and their followers, appear to be making all efforts to get their party nod to contest the polls. In Mysuru, supporters of   (Muda) chairman D   are demanding that the party give the ticket for Chamaraja constituency, currently represented by Congress leader Vasu, to their leader. Demand from Dhruvakumar’s loyalists has raised fears on some sections of the Congress that this could lead to a division in the party ranks.

 Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) observers MLA Narayanaswamy, and former MLA Chandrashekar paid a visit to the   Congress Bhavan in the city on Saturday, to collect feedback on the two leaders from the party cadre.
 
  had to endure a few embarrassing moments when Dhruvakumar’s supporters started raising slogans, photographs of their leader clutched in their hand, when the former entered the party office. Vasu subsequently met the KPCC observers and left the party office, but more drama unfolded at the Indira Gandhi Bhavan soon.
 
 When Dhruvakumar entered the office, Vasu’s followers, in what appeared to be a follow-up act, started shouting slogans in support of their leader. However, the Muda chairman sought to play down the incident, stating that, in a democratic setup, it was common for party followers to demand tickets for their leaders. 
 
 Incidentally, both Vasu and Dhruvakumar have held the office of Mysuru mayor,
 
 Dhruvakumar, a member of a backward community, is a staunch supporter of chief minister Siddaramaiah, was a mayor and chairman of the Karnataka Exhibition Authority before assuming charge at Muda. On the other hand, Vasu managed to wrest the Chamaraja seat from the BJP by defeating HS Shankarlinge Gowda by a huge margin in 2013.
 
 Admitting that everyone was free to aspire to contest the election, Vasu told TOI, “But, it is not Congress culture to bring people from outside to demand a ticket. I am a sitting MLA, and it was my duty to meet the KPCC observers at the office and extend my greetings.”
 
 Pointing to his clean record as an MLA, Vasu added, “There are no charges of corruption or any such allegations against me. I managed to defeat the BJP. As an incumbent MLA, I cak ask for the ticket. It is left for the High Command to consider my request. There are bound to be a lot of aspirants for tickets.”
 
 
