BATHINDA: Evading arrest for over five months, former   jail deputy superintendent   Singh presented himself before the court of Mansa judicial magistrate Ajay Mittal on Saturday as the court was to hear a case regarding declaring him a proclaimed offender.

 The vigilance immediately took Gurjit Singh into custody and obtained three-day police remand from the court. Earlier on Thursday, the vigilance had arrested Mansa jail superintendent Davinder Singh Randhawa in the same case registered under prevention of corruption charges on December 17, 2017.
 
 The case originally was registered against Gurjeet, assistant jail superintendent Sikandar Singh and a prisoner Pawan Kumar. However on May 17, the jail superintendent was included in the case after his involvement was discovered. Sikandar and murder convict Pawan were arrested on December 17. Gurjeet had been evading arrest and the final hearing to declare him proclaimed offender was fixed for Satuday.
 
 The case was to be heard by the court of chief judicial magistrate but as the CJM was on leave, it was referred to Justice Mittal’s court. Minutes before the hearing, Gurjit presented himself before the court.
 
 Both the jail officials have been arrested on accusations of extracting money from the family of Gaurav Kumar of Shahbad in Haryana, a convict under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.
 
 During investigations in the case, it came to fore that jail authorities were charging between Rs 10,000 to 25,000 per month per cell/barrack for providing a range of services such as choice of cell/barrack, facility to use mobile and even drugs in jail. Pawan collected money from inmates on behalf of the deputy superintendent and assistant superintendent.
 
 The vigilance officials recovered two registers from the jail canteen where Pawan was made to work. He kept record of entries for the collected money. During investigation, Pawan confessed to passing on the collected money to the jail superintendent, the deputy superintendent and the assistant superintendent.
 
  vigilance bureau SP Bhupinder Singh Sidhu and DSP Manjit Singh said Gurjit was wanted ever since the case under prevention of corruption Act was registered against him. “During the police remand, we will investigate the modus operandi of extracting money from undertrials or prisoners in Mansa jail and his role in it. He will be presented before the court on Monday.”
 
 
