THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Raising various concerns, members of the fishermen community - led by National Fishworkers' Forum (NFF) took out a protest march to the Secretariat on Tuesday. 

 The protesters demanded that relief must be provided to the families affected by   immediately, particularly the kin of missing fishermen and those who have lost their livelihood. They also sought to implement subsidies on kerosene (provided for fishing vessels) and raise the amount of fuel provided by Matsyafed to 300 litres per head.
 
 Inaugurating the march, NFF general secretary T Peter said, "Boat operators use diamond mesh nets instead of square nets to maximise juvenile fish catch, which will totally deplete the marine resources in about 10 years.   (CMFRI) had recommended all coastal states to ban juvenile fishing (58 varieties). The state government should strictly ban juvenile fish being transported to factories at Colachel and Mangalapuram for poultry feed and fertiliser production." He added that if the state failed to ban juvenile fishing, bowing to the pressure of boat operators, the fishermen would be forced to stay indoors.
 
 Meanwhile, according to an official issued by   (KSDMA), the government-constituted committee - led by disaster management department secretary and agency and fisheries department - is verifying the list of missing people, before releasing relief grant to the fishermen families. The official added that the Centre had released only the initial instalment of the disaster relief fund. It was Rs 133 crore.
 
 For the safety of fishermen at sea, the state had promised to incorporate navigation gadgets (NavIC) in fishing vessels that venture out in deep sea. Though the gadgets were tested, it is yet to be implemented. Fishermen are yet to be provided with lifejackets and other safety devices. Sources said 500 NavIC gadgets from Indian Space Research Organization ( ) were expected to be handed over by the end of March.
 
 Three months have passed since cyclone Ockhi hit coastal Kerala. Some of the fishermen, who had survived the disaster, are incapacitated, while others are yet to overcome their fear of venturing into the sea. Result: Many families are struggling to make both ends meet.
 
 
