Gurgaon: There are two   nearby but scores of   people still spread their beddings on the pavements of   every night, even on those like Saturday when the mercury touched 4 degrees Celsius. The alternative is to either cram into a portacabin, located adjacent to a stinking public toilet and a garbage dump, or hop across to the permanent shelter at  , which does provide a roof but not a comfortable night’s sleep.

 The Bhimnagar shelter is an old L-shaped community room with worn out mattresses and a mix of smells emanating from them. The quilts, however, are cleaner and have new covers. Lakhan (40), a labourer who spends nights at the shelter, claims the new covers were bought recently. “The bedding is barely usable. There are lice and all other kinds of insects crawling in most of the quilts and mattresses,” he said.
 
 On Saturday, TOI visited five of the 10 night shelters in the city and found the conditions at these shelters need to be improved if the chief minster’s recent directive to administrators that no one should be sleeping in the open on chilly winter nights is to be met. Lack of hygiene isn’t the only problem. Many people sleeping on roads have no idea where the night shelters are.
 
 Currently, the MCG has three permanent night shelters, including the one in Bhimnagar. The other two are at Kanhai and   complex. Additionally, seven temporary shelters, in the form of portacabins, stand on Railway Road, near Sadar Bazar, Basai Chowk, Vatika Chowk, Iffco Chowk, Rajiv Chowk and Red Cross Society.
 
 The conditions in most of these are a concern, ranging from hygiene to poor location.
 
 The Bhimnagar night shelter, for instance, has a capacity of 150 but never sees more than 50 people and 40 of them are regulars, says the guard at the centre. One of the main reasons is the location of the shelter, inside a residential colony.
 
 The portacabin on Railway Road, in contrast, is always fully occupied because it is visible but on either side of it are two portable toilets and a waste dump. “There are multiple problems here but the biggest one is proximity to the public toilets, which is unhygienic. Two guards fell sick recently,” says the guard posted there. “There is only room for seven to 10 people in this cabin,” said Rajesh Yadav, a daily wager. The shelter also has a leaking roof.
 
 Near the bus stand in old city, a portacabin has been placed for the homeless opposite Police Lines. On Saturday, there were only three people staying there, and local residents at that. The guard, Surender Kumar, said, “I told them the shelter is not for locals but they say they had a fight at home and need a place to spend the night.” A family was found sleeping in the open right next to the portacabin. Kumar also had a request for the authorities — to install a toilet near the portacabin soon.
 
 The permanent shelter in the Sheetla Mata Mandir complex offers the best conditions but only one person was staying there when this correspondent visited. “I don’t let a single person take shelter here as many of them are drunk and that’s not allowed in the temple premises,” said Lakhan Singh, the guard.
 
 The shelters need immediate attention from the authorities. On Saturday, deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh and MCG commissioner V Umanshankar, along with civic officials, inspected the shelters after directions from the CM’s office. The MCG officials said they will look into loopholes they found. “We will get the toilet near the Railway Road shelter running and ensure it is clean so that the guards and people coming to the shelter aren’t bothered. All required arrangements will be made,” said Mahender Singh, city project officer.
 
 However, the problem cannot be solved by the government alone. People using the shelters often turn up in drunken state and are ready to fight at the smallest trigger, the guards said. Most of them don’t have identity proofs, even though they have phone numbers. “It isn’t easy to control them and at times they hold us by the collar,” said the guard at the Bhimnagar shelter. 
 
 There also those who choose to sleep on roads, despite knowing about the shelters, so that they can collect alms.
 
 
