CHANDIGARH: With an increase of Rs 350 per semester for the session 2018-19, the new fee structure of the   hostels would be tabled at the syndicate meeting on February 24. If approved, the hostel fee per semester for the next session would be Rs 6,330 per semester.

 The fee committee in its November 2017 meeting had proposed that the research scholars who don’t have their supervisors in the university won’t be given a hostel accommodation in the campus. However, for course work of such students, temporary accommodations would be provided.
 
  
  
 
 Sources said that the varsity authorities, who were already grappling with space issues, noticed the trend that research scholars enrolling in colleges demand hostel accommodation. However, now, such students who have their supervisors from the colleges won’t be given hostel seats in PU starting 2018-19 session.
 
 “Moreover, it was also proposed in the meeting that the PhD students, who have completed five years in the university hostel would be allowed to continue only on sharing basis. This will also be discussed in the upcoming syndicate meet,” the sources said.
 
 Sources added that it was discussed in the meeting that research scholars would continue living in the hostels beyond five years and in some cases even after their PhD.
 
 Favouring the decision of the university, former   president and research scholar   said, “The University already has a problem of hostel accommodation. A research scholar gets   and can stay outside. However, other students don’t get any stipend. Moreover, the colleges can accommodate their research scholars and the university should give preference to their students first.”
 
 Another student from the philosophy department of the PU,  , said that increasing even Rs 350 per semester in hostel fee is not justified. “It is a wrong step to not let PhD scholars, who have supervisors in colleges, get hostel accommodation. Why are we closing their doors? After all, they are also a part of the university,” added Amandeep.
 
 
