JAIPUR: At the inauguration of two-day national level celebrations of NSUI’s 47th Foundation Day that began in Jaipur on Monday, the   affiliated body said it has resolved to uproot   from power by 2019. Addressing the seminar,   president Sachin Pilot said the rise of BJP started from Rajasthan in 2013 and the countdown to uproot BJP will also begin from Rajasthan this year. The Congress’ student wing also passed a resolution in favour of lowering the age for contesting polls.

 Pilot claimed that Congress is forming next government in Rajasthan this year and in the country in 2019. “The NSUI will be our frontal organization in forming Congress government in the state and the center which will see Rahul Gandhi as the next prime minister of India,” said Pilot, while addressing the elected representatives of NSUI from across the country.
 
 
 Upbeat over the victory in three by polls, Pilot said that Congress is forming government not due to anti-incumbency but due to its credibility and popularity. “Congress has attained victory in all by polls held in the last four years. Also, the performance of NSUI in student’s union polls has been significant across the state indicates that youths are subscribing to the ideology of Congress,” said Pilot. He urged NSUI activist to fight divisive forces harming the social fabric of the country.
 
 Explaining the significance of holding national convention of NSUI in Jaipur, Fairoz Khan the National President of NSUI, said, “The foundation day celebration is meant to recall, remember and reiterated our commitment towards safeguarding principles of democracy. Secondly, the elected representatives need to be groomed in advocating issues country is facing.” Senior Congress leader, Ghulam Nabi Azad talked about the important role of students in the freedom struggle starting from 1905. The convention will conclude on Tuesday.
 
 The student wing of NSUI has tabled resolutions--organizational and political which will shape the future course of the wing established in 1971. Dron Yadav, senior NSUI leader shared the resolutions said, "The Organizational resolutions include—participation of girls in student politics, NSUI block committees, criteria for electoral tickets and party positions while   includes lowering the age for contesting polls, electoral reforms, atrocities on dalits and minorities,” said Yadav.
 
