CHANDIGARH: Finally, the   government has admitted that constitution of a separate village — Shah Satnam Pura — in which most of the Dera Sacha Sauda buildings were located in the   headquarters by splitting the panchayat of  , was contrary to all revenue laws. The issue came up in the Punjab and Haryana high court which is hearing the Panchkula violence case.

 The law clearly says that a new village can be carved out from an existing one by including the abadi deh (inhabited site of the village) of the already existing village’s revenue estate. However, in this case, Shah Satnam Pura, was allowed to be constituted as a separate village on agricultural land without including the abadi deh of Shahpur Begu.
 
 Haryana additional chief secretary (revenue and disaster management) Keshni Anand   on Friday admitted this in an affidavit submitted before the Punjab and Haryana high court.
 
 “No abadi deh area of existing Shahpur Begu revenue estate was included in the newly-created revenue estate of Shah Satnam Pura. So there is no abadi deh area... the said abadi deh area which was noticed and demarcated during settlement and consolidation proceedings, remained in the rest of the revenue estate namely, Shahpur Begu,” the affidavit said.
 
 The term abadi deh implies   (village land) and the same was created during settlement operations in the concerned revenue estate.
 
 “The original abadi deh as fixed during settlement, has fallen in the jurisdiction of original revenue estate of Shahpur Begu. Hence, there is no Lal Dora in the newly-created revenue estate of Shah Satnam Pura,” Arora submitted in her affidavit.
 
 The affidavit was filed after the high court on April 4, 2018 asked the department to inform it about the process carried out by the Haryana government in setting up Shah Satnam Pura.
 
 The dera constructed several buildings in this village, like the “world class” cricket stadium, cinema hall, two farm houses, industrial unit, three godowns and religious buildings. It had applied for exemption for change of land use (CLU) for these buildings as these were erected in the newly-carved village.
 
 Amicus curiae Anupam Gupta at the previous April 4 hearing had said the ad hoc manner in which revenue land was forcibly carved out of agricultural land was not even done by the British and Mughals.
 
 “Villages are being constituted since Mughal period and the same practice was followed in British time, but present case is the only case where some buildings erected on a separate chunk of land were declared to be a village by splitting from another village’s revenue estate. Entire government machinery seems to have been used to help the Dera,” Gupta had argued.
 
  benefitted from Hooda to Khattar
 
 As per records, the then Hooda government had on August 12, 2014 issued a notification for carving out a new gram sabha of Shah Satnam Pura out of Shahpur Begu. The present Khattar government finally approved the constitution of this separate village in August 2015.
 
 
