The question of ‘Which campus is the best?’ has always been a topic of debate between the students of North and South Campus. One thing that   lacked that North didn’t, was the availability of   services and the convenience the students studying there had. The construction of the Metro station at the South Campus had started years back, but nobody was sure if the Metro would be functional anytime soon. That is why the Metro connecting the North Campus from different parts of Delhi was the deciding factor for many students to opt for colleges there. But the inauguration of the Pink Line – which has a station connecting all the colleges of South Campus – has not only brought the two campuses closer, but has also helped the students who used to take several other modes of transportation in their daily commute. 

  
  The newly-inaugurated Pink Line connects DU students to the colleges in South Campus, and has made it easier for them to travel to North Campus
 
 
 
 Aanvi Jain, a first-year student of  , says, "I live in Vaishali and earlier, I used to go till  , board a Metro till   and then take an auto till my college.” 
 Aanvi adds, “Although it takes the same amount of time even now, the Metro station is so close to our college that I don’t have to take any bus. I go to   first, and then take the Metro for South Campus, I don’t have to wait for any bus in the morning when I am getting late. Subah jab aapko time pe pahuchna hota hai, 5 minutes bhi bahut zyada hote hain and you cannot rely on any bus. With Metro, you know that you will reach on time. We are definitely the lucky ones who got the Metro in our first year only. People have been waiting for it for so long.”
 
  
  New selfie point! Students of ARSD college click selfies at the south Campus Metro station
 
 
 
 Ananya Khurana, a third-year student of ARSD, adds, “This Metro has actually been a blessing because we students have our coaching as well. I live in one part of the city (in west Delhi), study in another part of the city and have coaching in North Campus, so commuting from South Delhi to   has become very easy for us. It was a task to travel from one place to another for me, but now it has not only become convenient, it also saves a lot of my time.”
 
  
  
 
 
 Sagarika, a third-year student of ARSD, says, “The Metro line has definitely made our life easier in terms of commuting, but it has also given us a lot of interesting options to choose from in terms of the variety of hangout spots. Since we study at South Campus, we could only chill at Satya Niketan till now. But now we can go and eat at Rajouri and Hudson Lane in North Campus as well. College life mein khane se zyada aur kya hi important hota hai?”
 
  
  
 
 
 Aarushi Singh, a second-year student of Maitreyi College, adds, ‘I live in Subhash Nagar and I would often take a bus to reach college because there was no direct route. Itni metro change karne aur auto lene se better hota tha ki bus lelo. But the frequency of buses to my college is not that great and I would often take crowded buses. Garmi, upar se dhakke, and you have all kinds of people who would stare at you. I don’t need to take that route anymore. I can take an auto or can walk from the Metro station till my college.”
 
 
 
 Kunika Sharma, a third-year student and president of the fashion society of Maitreyi College, tells us, “I live in INA, and since I am the president of the fashion society of our college, we are expected to visit different colleges for competitions. We would usually go to central Delhi or North Campus, and it would take us an hour to reach these places from cabs. Now, I can reach central Delhi in 15 minutes and North Campus in half an hour. So that is the biggest help.”
 
 
  
 
