NAGPUR: After Board of Examinations (BOE), even the exam section officials of   are under the scanner for allegedly helping Sunil Mishra in getting bogus mark sheet which he surrendered before the exam body to get relief from the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court.

 NU officials questioned on how the   chairman was able to get those bogus mark sheets, particularly in the aftermath of Kohchade scam, when screws were tightened and entire examination section was under close scrutiny. Even police investigations were in full swing at that time and it was extremely difficult for anyone to get blank mark sheets. They pointed out that the exam section officials also allowed Mishra to appear in LLB examinations in the year 2000 on the basis of those bogus mark sheets.
 
 Confirming the development, vice chancellor   told TOI that he would be lodging police complaint in Mishra’s case shortly, which may reopen the “fake mark sheet and revaluation scam”. He said they would ask the cops to probe the role of NU officials, who allegedly helped Mishra in getting bogus mark sheets.
 
 “Even the role of those officials, who cleared his proposal of surrendering mark sheets, would be probed. Their role in accepting his bogus mark sheets and allowing him to appear in LLB exams in 2000 is under the scanner. Although, he didn’t appear in the those exams, he presented those mark sheet before BOE along with that of 1995, when he first appeared and failed. He, however, didn’t submit mark sheets of 1996 and 1997 when he was declared failed in second and third year LLB exams,” the VC said.
 
 NU’s complaint would also mention role of BOE members, who allowed Mishra’s proposal. The terms of investigations would cover all members who became part of his conspiracy, either knowingly or unknowingly.
 
 Kane further announced that he would be revoking old BOE’s decision headed by then VC SN Pathan, which approved surrender of Mishra’s degrees, in a day or two. “Since the Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) had granted authority to the administration to take decision in this regard, I will be cancelling that old decision in the VC’s capacity, before proceeding further.”
 
 Mishra was convicted for his involvement in the Kohchade scam by special court which found him guilty under 420, read with 34, 109 of IPC and 408, 471, 120B IPC. He was sentenced for 12 and half years jail on January 10, 2007, for fraudulently increasing the marks in revaluation. Those were increased in connivance with then controller of examinations (COE) Prakash Mistry, scrutinizer Madhukar Smarth and tabulator Suresh Manmode, who too were found guilty.
 
 
