SHIMLA: For the last one year, Himachal Pradesh has not been able appoint to   while the previous Congress regime and current   regime had announced zero tolerance policy against corruption. Now, after completing   in power, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has announced to appoint Lokayukta at the earliest.

 Similarly, human rights commission too is non-existent since July 2005. Before the 2017 assembly elections, the then Congress regime in the state had decided to make some appointments in the commission but then model code of conduct came into force and things did not move ahead. 
 
 Sources said the state human rights commission has been lying defunct since July 16, 2005 as posts of chairman and members have not been filled by successive governments. They said that under Section 21 of the Protection of Human Rights Act of 1993, state governments are required to constitute state human rights commissions.
 
 Sources said the commission gets two-three complains of human rights violation daily and since posts have been lying vacant, providing justice remains a far cry.
 
 Custodial death of Suraj Singh in police lock up of Kotkhai police station in July last last year had led to widespread public protests, while discrimination against Dalit students in a government school of Kullu district during the live telecast of the Prime Minister’s ‘Pariksha Pe Charcha’ programme had left the people shocked.
 
 There are many instances of human rights violations in the state and there has to be a full fledged commission, which people can approach for redressal of their grievances, Kinnaur-based social activist Shanta Kumar Negi said. 
 
 Some three decades back, the state government had appointed a Lokayukta, but the post has been lying vacant for the last one year, after Justice L S Panta completed his ternure.
 
 To a query posed during his interaction with media persons on completing 100 days in office, chief minister Thakur had replied that Lokayukta would be appointed shortly and that his government had zero tolerance on corruption.
 
 
