PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) on Monday decided to send closure notices to 12 prominent restaurants for “illegally using leased defence land for commercial purposes” in the   area.

 A decision to this effect was taken unanimously at the PCB’s special general body meeting. The decision comes after the defence estates officer (DEO), Pune circle, submitted a report to the board, recommending against the renewal of trade licences to these eateries.
 
 D N Yadav, the PCB’s chief executive officer, told TOI, “We had received 15 trade licence renewal applications. Since these establishments fall under the DEO’s jurisdiction, the applications were forwarded to him for a remark. The DEO has categorically recommended against renewal of the trade licences to 12 of these applicants as they are running their businesses on residential defence land, which is not allowed under the Cantonment Act, 2006.” Yadav said, “The closure notices will be issued soon and, if required, we will take them to court and seek prosecution under Sections 244 and 278 of the Cantonments Act, 2006.”
  
  
 
 Most of these restaurants are located on the Moledina Road, Dr Coyaji Road, East Street, Napier Road, Arjun Marg and General   in Camp. Prominent among them are Ramkrishna and Café Diamond, both on Moledina Road.
 
 Rajendra Pawar, the Pune circle DEO, said, “On verifying our land records and documents, we found that these restaurants are being run on residential lands. That is not permitted.We have recommended the board not to renew their trade licences.”
 
 Meanwhile, PCB officials said, as per the cantonment rules and local bylaws, a property can be used for commercial purposes only if it is located within the notified civil area of the cantonment. The PCB is responsible for management of properties inside that area and also has the power to determine the purpose of use of such properties. “Properties outside the civil area in the cantonment are under the management of the DEO, however, the PCB still needs to permit and approve the purpose of the building being leased out,” a board official said.
 
 Cantonment board officials said none of these identified properties has ever applied for a change of usage of the properties. 
 
 Sources at defence estate office said, “We had issued long-term leases to individuals for some bungalows, explicitly for residential purposes. But it has come to our notice that a lot of these properties are being operated as commercial establishments. This has been going on for more than two decades now. The Pune DEO had submitted a report in 2009, but no action was taken thereafter.”
 
 Some board members feel the violations have been “ignored” by the board in the past for unknown reasons. One member, who did not wish to be named, said, “Those who have taken properties on lease are operating illegal restaurants, hotels, bars, nurseries, garages and even clubs. The board must now act against these business immediately.”
 
 
