SHIMLA: Unhappy with the   ( ) not cracking Shimla’s   gangrape and murder case, even eight months after taking over investigation, the   high court on Wednesday directed the investigation agency’s director to remain present in court on the next date of hearing, April 18. 

 Court said it would consider extending the time given for the probe only after the appearance of the CBI director. The court also asked the director to file an personal affidavit on the status of the case. A division bench of acting Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sandeep Sharma said the case remaining uncracked only reminded it of the fact that the crime was related to the rape and murder of a 16-years-old child, which had evoked anger and pain in the entire state. “Are we to understand that officers of CBI are not competent enough to unearth the crime, of such a nature, within past eight months? After all, as we understand, it is not a case of destruction of evidence. It is also not that investigation is to be conducted in a foreign land/off shore,” it pointed out. 
 
 The court said there was no inkling of the crime having been committed by a foreign national. Now, if investigation is to be carried out within the state, then why it is that such process cannot be hastened by deputing more persons having greater experience and expertise, the court said. 
 
 The court said it had earlier observed “orally” that it would not hesitate from asking the director, CBI, to appear before it. “But today, we find that stage has come, for in our considered view, as it appears from the reports filed thus far, perhaps the investigating agency is clueless with regard to the whereabouts of the persons engaged and involved in the heinous crime,” it added. 
 
 The counsel for CBI, though, prayed to teh court that the presence of the director may not be required at this stage. “Well, we are unable to persuade ourselves to accept such a request,” the court said.
 
 CBI officials, including Surinder Singh Gurm (SP) and Seema Pahuja (DSP), were present in court. 
 
 During the course of hearing, CBI counsel   handed over the status report in a sealed cover (same report in two envelopes). Court opened and perused the same. Court said it had been more than eight months when investigation of FIR No.97 of 2017 was entrusted to CBI. It said that matter pertains to an unfortunate incident of a heinous crime which took place in the state. It shook the state, putting all in a great shock, it added. “Repeatedly, this court has emphasized the need for an effective and speedy investigation for not only it affected public sentiments, but was necessary for upholding rule of law in the state of Himachal Pradesh,” court said. 
 
 The division bench pointed out that during the pendency of present petition, another heinous crime took place and that being death of one of the accused, who allegedly committed the crime. Even this death, which itself is a crime, again shook faith of the people in the police, for such person died in a police custody.
 
 It said another FIR was registered on July 19, 2017, and nine police officers, ranging from inspector general of police (IGP) to constables, stood arrested. “But with regard to the investigation of the main crime, to our utter dismay, we find the instant progress report to be unsatisfactory,” court observed.
 
 Court said that repeatedly, CBI has been filing their status reports in sealed covers and on their request, it has kept them as such. “In fact, we have been indulgent in allowing the applications filed by CBI, extending time for completing the investigation,” it added. 
 
 The court also recorded that the state had “fully cooperated” with officers of the CBI. “It has provided accommodation, vehicles and all facilities as sought from time to time. Despite all this, we find no fruitful result. We may not be misunderstood to mean that officers have not done anything, but then there is nothing concrete or material in identifying the accused or leading towards them, which stands disclosed to the court,” it added.
 
 
