PATNA: Chief minister   will launch e-transport services on Thursday, enabling people to apply online for driving licences and vehicles registration.

 State transport secretary   said on Wednesday the e-transport facilities were being run on a pilot basis in 12 districts. He made the announcement during a trial run for 25 non-AC buses, which would to be flagged off by the CM from   on Thursday. The new bus service would be available at every ten minutes interval from   bus depot to Danapur via  . 
 
 “E-tickets can be availed in the buses. Each bus will have 32 seats with 50% reserved for women, senior citizens, people with disabilities and transgenders.   cameras will also be installed on the buses,” Agarwal said.
 
 “As of now, passengers will not be fined for travelling without a ticket, but conductors can seek police help against the person(s) if s/he does not buy a ticket,” he said.
 
 The CCTV-based e-challan system will also be launched on Thursday. “We have three e-challan machines (hand-held devices) as of now. As many as 10 machines will be made available to Patna traffic police in the near future to generate on the spot e-challans. We plan to cover the entire state for which we will acquire 100 such machines,” Agarwal said.
 
 “CCTV cameras at traffic lights will capture the image of the traffic rules violators and they will be sent an e-challan through SMS on their registered mobile phone numbers. The fine can be paid online as well. We had earlier received a lot of complaints about the lodging of fake challans,” Agarwal said.
 
 The transport department is also planning to launch in the next three days the citizenry complaint feature for violation by any vehicle and the registration of road accident information on Parivahan app. “Anybody can click a picture of a traffic violator and upload it to the app. This will especially be useful for the traffic police. One could also receive owner information by entering the vehicle number or driving licence number on the app,” Agarwal said. Three people have been deputed in the traffic control room to monitor the complaints or road accident information they would receive through the app.
 
 Agarwal said the foundation stones for 15 district transport offices would also be laid on Thursday. “Every district, except Patna, will have a separate transport office now,” he said. 
 
 CM will also inaugurate the state’s first driving school in Aurangabad district through remote on Thursday. The first batch will have 100 students.
 
 
