JAIPUR: Chief minister Vasundhara Raje’s ambitious project of reintroduction of tiger at Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) has suffered a setback after   ( ) placed a   on the shifting of tigers.

 After the Rajasthan chief wildlife warden received a letter from NTCA in this regard, the wildlife and forest department is burning midnight oil to reply to the queries and objection raised by NTCA. 
 
 The state government was all set to start relocating a tiger by March 31. However, the project has received a setback with NTCA denying to give its nod for the same. 
 
 The senior wildlife officials believe, the NTCA has asked routine information and this will not delay the relocation process for long.
 
 When TOI contacted, chief wildlife warden G V Reddy said, “I will try to respond to the queries immediately. Details have been sought from the field officer. The tiger will be relocated after permission is received from the NTCA.”
 
 NTCA had written to the state wildlife department for details on various security measures, including collar ID for the first time in October last year. It again sent a communication in November. After getting no response, the NTCA decided to put a temporary ban on the relocation project.
 
 Former (NTCA), member secretary Bishan Singh Bonal said, “Before reintroduction of tiger aspects such as augmentation of prey base, safety of habitat and security of a tiger is considered. The NTCA gives approval all these aspects are fulfilled.” 
 
 The Rajasthan government had notified the Mukundra hills sanctuary as the third tiger reserve in the state in April 2013. 
 
 In September 2017, the forest department had decided to change its tiger relocation plan at (MHTR) to provide a larger and contiguous habitat for the big cats.
 
 Instead of releasing them at Seljar range of MHTR as planned earlier, the tigers from   (RTR) were decided to be relocated to Darrah. 
 
 However, not many efforts were augmentation of herbivores for the tiger habitation in MHTR. A source at forest department said , “In Darrah region, the prey base is not sufficient and is available only in pockets. The tigers can find rich prey only in Jhamra pocket of Darrah. Now , more cheetal from Jaipur zoo and Delhi will be shifted to the reserve to increase the prey base for tigers. Once the tiger is relocated the prey base is expected to develop too,”
 
 Similarly, relocation of villages near Darrah range continues to remain a challenge. Source said , “ In Darrah range, more than six nearby villages including Ghati , Narayanpura , Mashalpura, Darrah were not relocated as forest department decided to erect channel fencing in 82 sq km area so that tiger cannot stray out in villages. NTCA has also shown disappointment as tiger will be captive in 82 sq km area ,”
 
 Rajpal Singh, a tiger expert and member of National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), said, “ The forest department should develop adequate prey for the survival of carnivorous . It should also provide safe space for tigers at reserve.” 
 
 Talking about the security of the tiger at MHTR, forest official said, “The tigers will have GPS enabled radio collars. For this, we are collaborating with Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun. Three teams will be constituted to monitor each tiger. Very high frequency (VHF) towers will be set up at strategic locations in the core area of Darrah to trace the cats,” 
 
 Tapeshwar Singh Bhati, president of the Mukundra Hills Environment and Wildlife Society, Kota, said, “ In MHTR, Darrah region is only safe habitat for tigers. The government decision is appreciative to change the re-location plan as there was extreme human intervention at Seljar,” 
 
 
