Greater Noida: A group of men with alleged links to the   has razed an old building from where a government primary school used to function earlier in Dadri’s Phoolpur village.

 The villagers said the five-decade-old building with three rooms and a verandah was razed on the night of March 9, when the group allegedly switched on the loudspeaker of a temple so that the residents could not hear the building being demolished. The temple is located in the 350sqm compound of the old school.
 
 Sources said classes used to be held in the building at least 17 years ago but the school shifted after a new building came up in the vicinity. The villagers alleged that the land mafia had been eyeing the education department’s plot, on which stood the old building, since then.
 
 Mahavir Singh, the husband of the village pradhan, said the group had first attempted to raze the building on January 26.
 
 “Some men tried to demolish the building when the students were busy hoisting the Tricolour on Republic Day. When we saw them, we intervened, but they claimed they had been sent by the pradhan. Little did they know I was the pradhan’s husband. We immediately called the police,” he said.
 
 A part of the building, however, was demolished the same night. “We woke up to see two walls had already been demolished and complained to the  . However, no action was taken,” Singh said.
 
 The villagers said the group had turned on the temple loudspeaker to play devotional songs till around 3am on March 10.
 
 “This had never happened before. We initially thought a puja was going on in the temple. But as the songs continued even after 3am, we smelt something fishy. We went to the temple around 4.30am and found a group of men collecting the debris of the old school building,” Singh said.
 
 The SDM has ordered a probe into the incident on a complaint by the villagers. 
 
 Revenue inspector Ashok Dubey has prepared a report after a visit to the spot where the old building stood. 
 
 He has named five persons in the report — Ravinder, Yashwinder, Pritipal, Ishwar and Jagat Ram. 
 
 Sources said they all belonged to the village and wanted to grab the land for long.
 
 SDM Amit Kumar Singh said he had forwarded the revenue inspector’s report to the basic shiksha adhikari for action.
 
 Shailendra Pratap Singh, station officer, Jarcha, said a written complaint from the BSA or the tehsildar was awaited. “In case the complaint comes with the proof that the land belongs to the education department, an FIR will be lodged against those named,” he said.   said he was yet to get the report from the SDM.
 
 
