
  is on cloud nine and understandably so. Her timeline has been flooded with compliments for her brilliant cameo as Mehrunissa in Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s Padmavat. And the Hyderabadi girl is thrilled to be finally making a splash in  . After bagging the lead role in the upcoming Sudhir Babu-starrer directed by Mohan Krishna Indraganti, she has bagged her second film Chekka Chivantha Vaanam (Nawab 
 in Telugu) directed by Mani Ratnam. “Yes, I’m really pleased with the way my career is shaping up. How many actresses get a chance to work with legends like Mani Ratnam and  ? In fact, Mohan Krishna Indraganti liked my performance in Mani sir’s Kaatru Veliyidai (  in Telugu) and was keen on casting me in his next film. All of Mohan sir’s films have strong female characterisations. So it’s a privilege to be making my debut in Telugu with his film,” says Aditi. 
 
 
 Unlike most actresses who prefer to consolidate their position in a particular industry first before branching out, Aditi carved a niche for herself as a pan-Indian artiste. After making her debut with Malayalam film Prajapathi (2006), she acted in a Tamil film Sringaram (2007) before making her Bollywood debut with Delhi 6 (2008). “Good cinema has no regional or linguistic boundaries. I consider myself as a director’s actor, so I’m open to work with filmmakers from across the country and even abroad. No artiste wants to be boxed. We thrive on challenging roles and they can come from anywhere. I consider myself blessed to be recognised as a pan-Indian actor. Yes, it means more hard work, prepping more for the roles but I’m all for it,” she avers. 
 
 
 
 Aditi hails from an illustrious lineage. She is the great granddaughter of Akbar Hydari, former Prime Minister of Hyderabad and Raja J Rameshwar Rao, who headed the administration of the erstwhile Wanaparthy Samasthanam. Also, Kiran Rao, wife of super star Aamir Khan, is her maternal cousin. But Aditi prefers not to speak about it. “Heritage and lineage are good and important. But what’s more important is how you use what God has given you to become a better person and stay grounded. Besides, I’m quite a private person,” she says. 
 Reminiscing about her Hyderabadi connect, she says, “I was born in Hyderabad and did my schooling here but later shifted to Delhi. But all my relatives are here in Hyderabad; my grandparents, aunts, uncles, cousins etc. I used to come here regularly in the holidays and have a wonderful time. I didn’t grow up speaking Telugu but I can understand the language. I now feel a sense of fulfilment at doing a Telugu film, it feels like a home coming of sorts.”
 
 
 Aditi recently had a dream come true when she sang the Tamil version of the song Maimarupaa from Cheliya on stage for AR Rahman at a live concert in New York. “I still can’t believe it. Rahman sir must have heard me sing sometime and asked me to sing on stage. He told me that there would be no orchestra. It was just him on the keyboard and I was very scared especially during the rehearsals. So many accomplished singers dream of working with Rahman sir at least once in their lives, and here I was, not even a trained singer, sharing the stage with him,” she says adding, “My mother is a trained Hindustani classical singer and I remember waking up every morning to the strains of her tanpura. So working with him is one item off my bucket list.”
 Aditi is equally excited about her upcoming Bollywood flick Dass Dev. “It’s a political thriller and I play the role of Chandni. It’s a modern interpretation of Chandramukhi, the Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyay’s classic novel Devdas,”she signs off. 
 
 
