AHMEDABAD: She does not remember her age but she nods with a broad smile when one of her children — whose ages range from sixties to eighties — says: “Baa e 100 vatavya chhe” (mother has crossed the century mark). The children are justified in being proud of their mother,  , also known as  . Indeed, she received the Best Elderly Citizen and Mother award in 2015 from the President at the time, Pranab Mukherjee. Gurjar was born into the Valmiki community, considered untouchable by caste Hindus. She married Chhabildas Gurjar, a Gandhian who struggled to bring reforms in Viramgam, which was in his time thought to be the epicentre of Satyagraha. The Gurjar couple had six children; five survived and two became doctors.

 Gurjar’s memories of the pre-Independence era is vivid. She bends her lean 5’3” frame to talk. “Once my son Nitin had high fever and I went to a doctor in Viramgam,” she said. “The doctor first asked about my caste and when I said Valmiki, he threw the medicines towards us. It was a moment of great anguish for me. But on that very day, I decided that I will make my sons doctors.” Gurjar’s recollection of the insult makes her voice shrill; but an undefeated spirit throbs in her words even today.
 
 Gurjar’s five children have done well for themselves. Maneklal, (83) was an executive engineer. Kamlaben (74) retired as the chairperson of the  . Nitin (72) is a doctor. Induben (70) was a professor. Vipul (66) is also a doctor. Suresh (64) is a retired railways employee. “When I came to my in-laws’ home after marriage, I could not read or write. My husband started giving me homework — for instance, writing the names of the ingredients of various recipes and memorizing tables,” Gurjar said. “Freedom fighters and Gandhians such as Jhinabhai Darji and Parikshitlal Majumdar used to visit us and they did not hesitate to educate me.” She said that after she had learnt to read and write, she resolved that all her children would be educated. “I had adopted a series of austerity measures. I owned only two saris until all of my children got educated,” she said. “I used to pluck 20kg cotton every night and during the day I used to spin the charkha. I invested the income in my children’s education.”
 
 Nitin faced untouchability at the age of 5. He now runs a clinic in Vadaj, Ahmedabad. He charges only Rs 5 from his patients and does not ask them about their caste or creed. “With my mother’s inspiration, I run my clinic in an area that is home to the poor, deprived, and suppressed people,” he said. “Treating them heals the wounds inflicted on me by untouchability.” His mother interrupts him. “He serves the entire community,” she said. “Caste discrimination continues even today. When I read the newspaper every morning, I see that Dalits are still being brutalised. Thangadh and Una horrors are some examples. But I think the circumstances will change.”
 
 
