GUWAHATI:  , an international health expert from   who was in the city on Friday, advocated the use of Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy ( ) with multipoint pacing (MPP) to treat heart failure in patients. 

 CRT is a unique cardiac pacemaker that assists the heart in pumping blood by sending electrical impulse to the organ, forcing its muscles to contract. CRT involves simultaneous pacing of both the ventricles while MPP involves the pacing of multiple sites within the coronary sinus vein by means of a quadripolar lead. These new therapies can give a new lifeline to patients with heart failure, who otherwise do not respond to other forms of treatment.
 
 Zanon, who is the director of the laboratory of Electro Physiology and Cardiac Pacing at Rovigo General Hospital in Italy, is also a pioneer in developing this new age therapies for heart failure. "Heart failure is a serious condition that must be managed as early as possible to prevent it from worsening. Combining MPP with CRT improves clinical outcomes greatly," said Zanon while interacting with the press in Guwahati on Friday. 
 
 "CRT with MPP technology can be used to treat patients with heart failure, a progressive condition in which the heart weakens and loses its ability to pump adequate supply of blood. This increases the risk of mortality greatly. Moreover, MPP is safe, effective and brings about a superior response compared to the more conventional bi-ventricular pacing," said Rituparna Baruah, a doctor at the Apollo Hospital, who has for the first time used this therapy to treat patients in the northeast. 
 
 Doctors say fatigue, shortness of breath, chronic coughing or wheezing, edema, nausea, lack of appetite, disorientation and high heart rate are some of the symptoms of heart failure.
 
 "Leading a healthy lifestyle is the key to preventing heart failure. Quitting smoking, maintaining a healthy body weight through increased physical activity, limiting the consumption of alcohol and caffeine, and eating a healthy diet low in sodium, saturated fat and trans fat are some of the ways in which heart failure can be prevented. People suffering from any symptom that might indicate the onset of a heart disease should seek medical advice at once," said Zanon.
 
 Zanon added that those diagnosed with heart failure should track their daily fluid intake and check their weight frequently. Being physically active and taking adequate rest will also help them to manage this condition better.
 
 
