PANAJI: Days after the residents of several villages in Tiswadi protested and got St Cruz, St Andre, Curca, Azossim among others excluded from Greater Panaji Planning and Development Authority (GPPDA), on Tuesday, for the first time, there has been opposition to the inclusion of   in the plan, and that too, from the ruling  .

 Stating that Taleigao, from the beginning, should have never been part of any PDA, BJP spokesperson and Taleigao BJP mandal president Dattaprasad Naik said that the village does not have the infrastructure to support any further vertical development and that the last bits of its fields need to be preserved.
 
 Four days ago, town and country planning ( ) minister Vijai Sardesai had announced the dropping of several villages from the jurisdiction of GPPDA, leaving only Taleigao and Kadamba plateau in the newly formed PDA. The GPPDA was carved out to accommodate former Taleigao MLA Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate as its chairman as a reward for supporting chief minister Manohar Parrikar in the Panaji bypolls, last September. Monserrate belongs to the GFP, BJP’s coalition partner.
 
 Monserrate and Naik have been political rivals with both contesting assembly polls from the Taleigao constituency.
 
 “Taleigao should have been under TCP itself. I don’t know why it was put under NGPDA in 2006 by the then TCP minister. I think whoever has this idea of carrying out vertical development in Taleigao is wrong,” Naik said, adding that the village first needs to build public utility infrastructure as it is already facing water shortage problem and has no garbage disposal plan. There is no school infrastructure to cater to the children of the ever-expanding panchayat, besides Taleigao has no market, he added. 
 
 “If Taleigao is under the TCP, at least it won’t get permission to construct 10-12 floor buildings,” Naik said.
 
 Naik and another BJP spokesperson Premanand Mahambre said the party wanted to thank power minister   for (partially) rolling back the power tariff hike, which he said was also a recommendation from the party. Both spokespersons did not have a clear answer as to why health minister Vishwajit Rane had a public outburst against Madkaikar over the hike without making his concerns about the same known to the party first.
 
 
